Okay, we are live at Mithish and podcast. It is Derek Lambert, your host. Thank you for tuning in.
It's been a while since I've streamed and I have obviously, if you don't know,
Neil Sinlak from Gnostic and Formit joining me here on my left.
Sharing this with my community, Ted. That's why I have the phone. Not being rude. Just want to
share this out. Yeah, welcome, everybody. It's really good to see you here. We have several
things we want to talk about. That's why I was like, what do I title this? There's so many cool
things we're working on right now and we're interested in diving into. It's kind of funny how
these studies work. Sometimes you get lost in rabbit holes and you want to pick away the threads and
discover where they lead. And we're going to get into that. Before we do, we want to talk about
some real life stuff and what's been going on. And I'll let you share what's recently taken place
with you. Yeah. Recently, my brother, some of you might, some of you might talk about this.
Actually, this is going on almost two years now when my brother went, you know, he overdosed,
went to the hospital and was pronounced brain dead. You took over my stream for that whole week
when I was dealing with that. Yeah. Well, he's been in hospice ever since. And a few days ago,
he was let go. Now he's passed away. So he was suffering the whole time. So I mean, it's,
if anything, it's good that he's no longer in that state. He was suffering and he really was
in pain. Oh, yeah. You know what I mean? And so the best hard to see him, very hard to see him.
Yeah. Yeah. So for those who don't know Neil's brother, identical twin or fraternal twins,
fraternal twins. So his twin brother passed away. He was born five minutes before.
So he was the Esau and you were the Jacob. You grabbed his ankle. He pulled him back in.
But, you know, they reminded me of me and my brother and we are joined at the hip. Like,
even though I'm a year and three months older than my brother, like, we didn't go anywhere
without each other. There wasn't something we weren't doing to have each other's backs. It's
just the way life was. But yeah, his brother passed away. And then he came to visit me,
actually. And it happened while he was here. And we've been doing, we've been hanging out.
We've been talking, doing a lot of other stuff, not just recordings. And my brother's struggling
big time in addiction. And so I guess I want to open it up with serious stuff before we get into
like history and ancient wisdom and all that cool stuff that we could discover about. Because we
got out something planned that's deep down. Yeah. There's there's some stuff. Serious stuff will be
done. If you're dying to this, like, come back. We've got fun stuff coming. But anyway, yeah, yeah,
yeah. I had a dream a long time ago about my brother dying. And when this happened, just recently,
it made me go over to his house and like, try to do anything I could to help him with his
situation and addiction. And he's willing. So I'm actually going to be getting him into treatment
here soon. And his wife, both are struggling. This is a disease. I mean, it's medical. So it's
not moral. You're a bad person. The church told me forever. It's a sin. It's a demon, your spirituality.
You know, it was much more than that. And Kurt's Kurt's willing, and he's going to do something
to get help. So that that's the first thing we wanted to say is, again, you know, you're kind
of past the whole wanting to go on and on about the loss of your brother. But, you know, it's a
serious thing. So, you know, for those who've been watching for a long time, like, there's been
stuff going on behind the scenes. Neil's been fighting through. He's had to see his brother
in the state and hospice at the hospital for years now. And finally, he has, you know, finally
gone to not having to suffer anymore. So. Right. Yep. So I mean, it's, it's, I'm sure there's a
lot of people who can relate out there. It's, it's a big deal. It's an epidemic. Fetanol was the drug
that ultimately put him out. And, you know, it's getting, it's not, it's not getting better out
there. So I'm sure, I mean, was it 150 people watching this? I'm sure everybody, most of the
people out of that 150 at least know somebody who's dealing with that type of stuff. That's how,
that's how like big it is, you know. Yeah. And I just want people to know most importantly,
you're not alone. Find someone, get into a group somewhere, connect with people because it's all
about connection. And, you know, don't give up. As long as you've got breath, don't give up. Yeah.
I've been down that road. In fact, that's people who don't know this is the perfect time to lead
into something else. You might go, why is Derek and Neil so tight? Why are they so close? Why are
they like brothers? Me and Neil have a similar past. A lot in common. It's weird. Really weird.
And he's two years older than me. He has two years longer clean time. We were both addicts
ourselves to exactly almost exactly two more years of clean time, more than me. And he started
his YouTube channel two years before my channel. Right. So it's like I'm following Derek to, I'm
like two years behind Derek. But you're not in terms of you're growing, bro. Yeah. In fact,
your recent discovery of the documentary stuff. See, for a long time, Neil used to pat me on the
back of bro, if it weren't for you, man, and you know, it feels good to do that. But it also
makes me go like, if you didn't work the way you work, your work ethic is impeccable, bro. You have
a, you have an impeccable work ethic. You should have just seen this before the stream, getting
our notes ready for this. Oh gosh. I got pages of notes ready to go. Got some stuff to show you.
For today. Oh, that's the wrong side. But yeah, like we got some stuff for today. Yeah, we're
hoping you're ready to go with us. Yeah, we're gonna, it's gonna be, we're going deep into some
stuff. But the most important stuff we wanted to get up front, and that is Neil, he's got a record.
I've got a record. We both dealt with addiction. We both had family members that were addicted.
And, and we both are weirdos that are into this stuff. So, you know, we nerd out on learning
this ancient history. It had a deep grip on both of us as fundamentalist Christians.
We were both fundamentalists. We both came from a very conservative Christian background.
That's, that's a mean, that's another thing I forgot to mention. That's another bonding things.
We both were hard, fundamentalist Christians who went to church twice, three times a week.
If there was five times a week, we could go, we could go. I was there. Every time it was open,
I was the first one there. They gave me my own personal key. I was like one of the most,
you know, most involved people there. Derek was like that too, at his church.
You know, we both, we both had that part of us and then switch over to the skeptic side.
And then become the informant of you. Well, that's why, that's why my name nasty informant.
I became, I became an informant on my religion. I was telling on them, like, hey, you guys are
a lot, you guys are holding stuff. I'm telling on you today. Well, I love that. That's what,
that's what an informant meant. People didn't know what I meant, but that's what it meant.
Well, I like that you're bringing the gnosis, right? You want to educate, you're bringing
knowledge, knowledge, but it is cool that there is that particular term that is coined that we
use for these groups of Christians. They are Christians. I don't care what Christians say.
Christians say they're not Christians because they have particular theological definitions.
They claim to be Christ followers. They claim to be followers of Jesus Christ. So I love that you
really hammer that too, because it's like, well, who's right? And like, you're going to trust the
Orthodox church to have given you the correct thing all the way from start to finish. That,
that's what his side really dwells into. And you don't do it as, as pokey as I do.
You do it to where like people will learn as they watch your episodes.
I want to give you the sources and let you decide. Yeah. That's my whole thing.
I feel like you're forced to decide though. I'm bringing you what, this is what the text says.
I'm not going to tell you what to think of it. That's for you to decide. So Derek, Derek, you,
you, what your, your, your approach is to like, you're trying to dissect things. Yeah. You're
trying to get the scholars that like explain away what's good. But also the scholars kind of
do this and you can hear different ways of doing it. Right. Yeah. Absolutely.
Thank you everybody for showing up in the chat. I want to share my screen real quick. And this
is going to segue in over to this. So we dealt with the addiction. We talked about the loss of
your brother. I'm trying to save mine and his wife. And, and so we're, we're busy, busy people.
You know, I got the whole family, you could probably attest and tell how crazy my life is.
And yet I still try to generate this stuff and produce courses and all that. So I do appreciate
everyone who's liked videos that everything you do, free or not free helps to keep bringing
this information just the other day. I got to share the screen real quick. Please,
before we go into the rabbit, I just want to show something real quick for our audience,
because I think this is important. Subscribe to Neil over here, Gnostic Informant. I'll put this
in the chat. If there's a mod, it'd be awesome to have you put this in the chat, but I'll put it
here anyway. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone would, yeah. Yeah. And if someone wants to keep refreshing
that and like sharing it, go ahead. We're going to get into something here as an analogy. This
right here, right? Like Argonauts of the Desert. This is something that is blowing me away. I've
got a documentary I'm about to do on Abraham. We're going to get into this. We've got some notes
here. We're going to get into Elephantine Papyri. But oh yeah, this, we got to go over this. I did
a poll. Do you want to explain why we did this poll? Yeah. So we need to lead up into why this poll
was on my community tab yesterday and why 91% of people would have chosen Demetrius Valerius.
Yeah. We expected this poll to be at this. This is what we expected. I did misspell Socrates,
so people made it. Yeah. Sorry about that. I didn't, I even tried to correct it, but some people
had to keep going. Yeah. Who cares? All right. Well, the point of this poll is because everyone
knows Plato. Everyone knows Socrates because of Plato. Who's Plato wrote about Socrates. And
everyone knows Aristotle. Because Aristotle's works are like just, there's so much Aristotle
that's been preserved. Aristotle, his parapetetic school was so influential in Greek thought.
Everyone knows those things. But when Demetrius Valerius, not everyone knows who this person is.
But yet, when you look into this person's history, you find out he's involved in so much,
so much game-changing events that happened in history. Why is he not? And why is he not a
household name like the other three? I have no idea. Yeah. You said it yesterday off air,
and we don't know how absolutely factual in terms of, there's no number like scientific
absolutely say, but he should be. This should not be. You're going to find out today why we're
saying this. Yeah. Like the point Neil is trying to say without getting overly critically
numbers here on science, but like this is an unbalanced, fair vote. Like you should be voting
like, I think Socrates over Plato, or I think Aristotle over Plato, or I think Plato over,
it shouldn't be like everyone doesn't know this guy, but everyone knows Plato, Socrates and Aristotle.
That's his point. My point is, yeah. The things that he contributed to the world is arguably more
than the other three. Right. And that might sound crazy, but once you listen to what I have planned,
what me and Derrick have planned, I think you might at least understand why I'm saying this.
I think it has to do with your Bible. It has to do with your Bible. You kind of have to ask,
like, what's one of the most popular books in the world right now? Yeah. It's your Bible.
I mean, think about it. What's more influential, Plato's Tameas or the Bible?
And there's scholars we talked to, the American others, this book that I brought up, Argonauts
of the Desert, which God, oh, I can't wait to get into this with you guys. This is, I love
challenging what we thought we've known for centuries in scholarship. Yeah. From scholars.
These are not fundamentalists. They have no axe grinding to try and make these things magically
abracadabra. These are critical scholars who are insisting on trying to kind of challenge
his status quo. And that's always fun. Yeah. So now, can you, can you pull up the screenshots
from Diogenes, this one? Yes. Now, I want to go, I want to go down. He's a, okay. First of all,
notice how he's a student of the theophrasis, who is the successor to Aristotle. So this is the,
just hold that thought for now. Okay. There's a straight line, by the way, you're going to go
full screen so you can actually break this, like get this linear thing going. Well, I want to do
the line thing. There's a straight line from the seven stages of Greece to the Septuages.
But you don't need this right. I don't want to do, but I want to show, I want to show what he says
about Demetrius at the end. The last thing he says about him, keep the next page. Is there another
page? Yeah. Yeah. So this is a, by the way, that's a gold statue of Zeus, Serapis. Yeah. That's
pretty cool. Oh yeah. He worshiped him. He would, well, he was living in, he was actually
influential. He was part of the building of the Serapium in Alexandria. Right. So that's another
thing he contributed to society, the Serapium. And he was, he was one of the people commissioned
to build the library of Alexandria. And you don't, it's kind of a big deal. No one knows
him. Like what? So here it is right here. In the quantity of books of his books, yep. In the
quantity, it's just, I'm reading it right here. In the quantity of his books, in the total number
of lines written, he surpassed nearly all his contemporary parabetetics. That means school
of Aristotle. For his learning and experience are unequaled. Some of his works are historical,
some political, some deal with poetry, some rhetoric. There are also speeches given in the
assembly and the embassies, as well as collections of Aesop's fables and the works. His books include,
and just, I'm not going to read them out, just scroll through, just to show him how much he's
written. Look at this. All of that. His style is philosophical, combining rhetorical vigor and
force. When he heard that the Athenians had destroyed his statues, he said, but not the
virtue that caused them to be erected. He used to say that though the eyebrows only a small part
of the face, they have the power to darken the whole life. He said that not only was wealth
blind, but also luck its guide. I want to make one comment while you're getting into this,
just to point out, and I also want to highlight the super chats here real quick.
Yeah, but I just wanted you to see, this is what Diogenes Latterius is saying,
how big of a deal he was. Right. Huge. Huge. He says unsurpassed by any parapetetic.
Big, big deal. That means, that means the three people that we named in front of him
did not pass him according to Diogenes. So you've got fans of this guy who are clearly
saying that, one comment I've got to make, I see this all the time happen, and I can't wait to know
more. Yeah. And I'll tell you, when I get to know more, I'll have a better accurate, like I can go
to the original sources and pull this stuff out. But what you find as an apologetic among online
apologist communities, mostly Christian that I'm engaging with, they have this like morality, ethics,
societal argument that like, we are dependent on Christianity. Now, here's the deal. This is
where it's really interesting. I do think that we've evolved out of Christianity or society. You
could call me an atheist Christian if you want, whatever you want to call it. The point is, is
Christianity, they act like figured it all out. And it's like the moral, ethical compass is
Christianity. And this is the truth, ignoring the slavery stuff that Jesus clearly said he was
involved in and uses in his parables. Just check out Jennifer Glancy. And you'll see
that Jesus did not condemn slavery. And yes, this is not just along indentured servitude.
This is the Roman version of slavery that was ubiquitous in the world, which is not a pretty
thing. But my point is, is they act like this is the morality and Christianity had it, as if these
Christians did not get this from the pagan world, because pagan equals polytheistic equals bad,
idol worshiping, you know, heathen, and not realizing these secret, these, these philosophers
that came before Christianity. Because this will, this will highlight what you just said
perfectly. Now, is this here? No, it's one of the scrolls that I sent you going down. No,
no, it's not in the book. It's one of the pages that I sent you. Right. I screenshot it over here.
Oh, okay. Okay. I'm sorry. Yes. All right. Let me pull up here. This is from the fragments of
Heraclitus, sixth century down here, right here, right here. Oh, right. Got it. Okay. He says,
initiation here into the ancient mysteries. So honored among men, mocks, holiness, they're very
holy minded. He's, he's, he's dissing his Greek pagan counterpart. He's, look at the next thing he
says, they raise their voices at stone idols, as a man might argue with his doorpost. They have
understood so little of the gods. Yeah, that sounds like Jeremiah or Isaiah. That's Heraclitus.
And they're like calling them out. The point Derek was saying is these ideas of
these monotheistic ideas didn't just come from one place. Right. This was already,
it was already in the Greek world. It was a part of the Greek world. Right. And so when I hear the
apologist say, you owe to Christians, man, we Christians really, it took you 71700, 1800 years
to finally condemn slavery as a practice. But they keep pretending they don't owe any of their
ethics, their morality, their code and everything they learn philosophically. Paul talks about
the Numa. The Numa in Paul, if you go watch the course by, by Robin Faith Walsh, she breaks this
down as a philosophy within stoicism. And it was a middle Platonist kind of between stoic and middle
Platonist idea that Paul is working within. You can thank the stoics. You can thank the middle
Platonist. You can't act like your Christianity was just this thing that came in the divine hand.
Bowman, you're ignoring what came before. So when they make the argument, oh, you owe everything to
Christian foundation. You get the presuppositionalists and others who try to act like Christianity's
the one. No, you're Christians owe these guys. Last thing before the super chats. Yeah. Yeah.
Pull up that screenshot of the noose that I showed you. It was a screenshot of the noose.
This right here. Okay. Now this is a pot. This is a Greek, in Greek theology, there's the logos,
the noose bestowed order on the universe and everything in it. It was a mind in the very sense
of a vessel or diffuser in the works of scholar, blah, blah, blah. All right, this is a Christian
concept, right? Everyone agrees on that. However, the Christians then not invent this concept.
In fact, and that's a chorus in the fifth century BCE, or sixth century, I don't know the date here,
and that's a gore said this exact same thing, that the mind, the noose is the one who orders the
universe. So this is the Christians didn't make this up. They adopt these ideas from the
pre-Socratics. Right. So when you hear you are standing on our religion in order to make your
arguments, everything Christian stands on is standing on what came before it. I got a quote.
This is from Anaxagoras. All things were together, then the mind, noose in Greek, came and set them
in order. Sounds like something a Christian theologian would say. Sounds like the logos.
Yeah, which is well. This is the tip of the iceberg. We got a lot more to go. Let's do some
supers. Yeah, real quick on the supers, but this is so much fun to dive into because I enjoy just
knowing the facts about the history. It's like, I want to be honest. Just waiting till we get to
Hecateus of Abdera, Demetrius, the people in Alexandria, and the Elephantine Jews. Yeah,
so we got a whole, and it makes you have more questions. You're going to see there's some
stuff happening. As we said before, we went live. I think we're asking really good questions
that make you have more questions than maybe answers. That's what me and Derek were saying.
Me and Derek don't have the answers. We're not specialized PhDs, but I was like, Derek,
I think you and I have the best questions. Well, we have really good questions. I'm not to be cocky,
but I think you have the answers. I don't know what the answer is, but I think I'm asking the
right questions. Well, you and me are talking to so many voices of so many different scholars
that it makes us sift through, sit back, and we try to assess and then say, okay, here are questions
based on this, and this leads me down a certain path. Anyway, let's get the super chat. Stop scamming
me in the house. Thank you. Good to see you here, by the way. Hi, Derek. Your live streams on
Scientology seem great, but are you vetting the guests to make sure they are not working for
Emperor Xenu? Again, thank you for the support. Stop scamming, man. Really appreciate it.
It was good to see you stop scamming, man. Absolutely. I saw a long time viewer, you and me.
Been loving from day one, seriously. These questions. See, Titan Uranus in the chat.
Oh, we've got a bunch of people. Kip Davis in the chat. Captain Dadpool in the hissy.
Dr. Davis, Titan Uranus, that rhymed. Baron, we got a lot of people here.
Thank you for being here. We really appreciate it. Some of the things we're going to talk about
coming after this is controversial, and we're going to use some analogies to get to our points.
And none of what I'm saying I'm dogmatic about. I am not saying I'm right. I'm just pointing
things out that the sources are saying. And I'm trying to piece it together the best I can,
but I can only do what I can only do so much from when. Yeah, it's the same thing. You and me are
trying. And real quick, we got 1.7k votes. So 91% out of 1.7. Yeah. So Demetrius is a big
hit. Demetrius is the least known. And I think it's an interesting thing at this person.
We haven't even gotten to what he's contributed yet. So let's do this linear thing.
Because you brought up this, and this is important. You, before we went live, were saying,
okay, you've got Thales. Yeah. Thales is like the OG. Thales is the first master of the School
of Athens. He's part of the 17th Ages of Greece. All right? He is accredited for saying that water
is the principle of all things. And God is that mind, there's that noose again,
which shaped all things from water. What is that when I enjoy it, Derek?
I mean, it sounds a little bit like Genesis 1.
Water. The two waters are separated from the, from the, from, from God. I mean,
do you want to pull it up real quick? Well, we know. I mean, in the beginning,
God created, but the interesting thing about Genesis, and I think most of our viewers are
pretty up to speed. I'm not saying that Thales wrote Genesis 1, but I'm saying like the idea of
like what's in Genesis 1 is the, is also an idea that Thales seems to be
having commonplace. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Where's the idea? I'm not saying one borrowed from the other.
Right. I'm just saying they both have this in common. But this, there are just to point out,
scholars who do think Genesis 1, well, unanimous critical scholarship says it's demythologized,
which means there seems to be something of like an ancient water beast from like Tiamat,
or you could go to Lothian, Leviathan, Ophion, various different dragon water deities which
that were split or destroyed and created the cosmos. But in Genesis 1, Ophion's blood creates
the, it's demythologized. So they purposely are keeping out that we'll call it pagan because
we're going to call it, we're going to call it pagan because they're trying to be more
saint. Just to keep things like very neat, we're just going to use that term. Yeah,
they're trying to be more sophisticated and get away from that title. We understand they
don't call themselves pagans and we understand that's a word that Christians call other people.
We're just going to use it just for, so we can categorize. Exactly. Just for the sake of language,
we're just going to use that term. Okay. But so while everyone, no matter who they are,
supplementary hypothesis, documentary hypothesis, the guys who are in the, the minimalist,
maximalist, they all say Genesis 1 is demythologized. It looks like there could have been an earlier
mythology, which they go to Genesis 2 or through the Psalms. We see language of a water creature
beast that Yahweh or El is fighting and creates the cosmos from its corpse, et cetera, which we
see in earlier mess with taming material. There are some scholars just saying that actually think
Genesis 1 is really Hellenistic. And I know that's a radical. Listen to this too. So the
Pythagoras is apparently the apprentice of a man named Phirisides of Seroes. Phirisides of Seroes
basically was known for creating a new theogony to replace Hesiod's theogony
in which he took Eastern Babylonian and Egyptian elements and intertwined it with the Greek. And
he did. Apparently it was according to the source that I was reading. It's a more rational, concrete
version than Hesiod's. So you're already starting to see Hesiod getting changed into something.
Phirisides is doing this. Phirisides claims to get this knowledge from the Phoenicians,
which are the Semitic people, which is interesting. So we're not we're not being like Greek
supremacists here. We're looking at this from all angles. Like there are people that there's
Phoenicians over here, there's Egyptians over here, there's Babylonians. They're all contributing
stuff. And by the way, Pythagoras who was the student of Phirisides says that he spent 10 years
in Babylon and 10 years in Egypt and learned all his knowledge before he left to Croton, Italy
and set up this and set up the museum, set up an Apollo museum there. And he got all his knowledge
from all these different places. So it's not like we're not saying the Greeks are smarter than
everyone else. What we're saying is these Greeks went around the world and compiled the knowledge
and they should be credit for that. This is so interesting you bring up. I'm glad you mentioned
that because in that book, and this is a radical, I mean, he's had death threats on his life. I think
it was death threats or even violence to him, Argonauts of the Desert. If you have not read this,
just wait till you see what I reveal in the documentary coming up, thanks to Neil Godfrey
who actually wrote articles based on this, introducing this book to me. But in this book,
he points out, historically, it is a fact. You have Phoenicia, you have, you know, the Canaanite
regions and their religions, which Uberidic and whatnot. You have Mesopotamia, you have Egyptian.
All of these power structures and the religious systems were not as popular, especially not at
once, until the Greeks came in and revived them. Now there were, so you had Mesopotamia at one
point, it was obviously the power of the world. But then that dwindles Egypt at one point. All of
these older ideas, Greeks did not come in and go, were superseding them, therefore cut them out,
like Christianity tries to come in and like crush everything before it and act like they're the
one. Greeks came in and complimented by adopting and synchronizing to them. So it revived all of
these issues. They absorbed the cultures. And they were not ashamed of that. Like Alexander was known
for dressing like a Persian when he was with Persians. Like he, a lot of people criticize him
for that. A lot of those like really Greek nationalists thought that was wrong. And like,
but he was trying to be metropolitan. He was trying to absorb the cultures. He was trying to let,
you know, give everybody a fair, like, you know, according to the sources, I don't know.
But that's just being documented. I'm just giving you the sources yet.
And he documents that and he's like, look, if there's one time in history where this all makes
sense to have Mesopotamian, Egyptian mythology, all this stuff in your literature, it's Helen
and them that really combines all this stuff. This is the time. So that's perfect timing for me
to go on this list. Okay. It leads to Alexander. Okay. So I'm complimenting each other. I mentioned
Thales. Thales does the water thing in the mind. Thales teach this is a straight line. And I said,
your friend that does that channel of useful charts, we should work with him on this. Because
this is a straight line from Thales to the Septuagint. Watch this. Thales teaches a nexamander
who taught that there was an unlimited all, an infinite being called the unlimited.
A nexamander teaches Anaxomenes. He calls it the arcade, which means first. And it says,
the arcade breeds air into matter. It makes it life. So there's the idea of God breathing life
like Adam and Eve. There you go. Right there. You have that idea. He teaches, these are students,
this is a teacher to student. Like this is, it's a genealogy, genealogy. He teaches Anaxagoras,
who is real big on the noose, the mind of God. By the way, they, these people look at the gods,
Aphrodite, Dionysus, whatever, Athena, as they're called daemons. So you need to think of angels and
demons. You don't call them, most people who are Christian or Jewish or Muslim, they're not gods,
they're angels and demons. But that's actually not true. Because at least today, modern Christians
do not see it this way. Well, technically, angel just means messenger. Right. Daemon is the correct
term. It means deity. And a daemon was a deity that was an intermediary between that one that,
that all source that they call the noose, the mind, the demiurge, whatever you, there's different
terms for it. But it's like, it's, it's, it's almost like a monotheistic theology where there's
this one God on top and there's daemons underneath it. So that's what you get. So Anaxagoras is
just a quote from Anaxagoras. I already said that one. All things work together. Then the mind
came and set them in order. Okay. He teaches. Oh, can I say one thing right there? Yes. Just,
I don't want to throw us on a rabbit trail, but Athena and, in case you didn't see the
documentary I did before, Athena and Prometheus breathed life. And in one of the, so there's
variations of the myths. This is what's interesting, but wind came by into the clay,
creating life, and they were the cause of it, or they breathed into it. The American sources,
this stuff. So anyway. Yeah. And these daemons were allotted their own regions. Exactly what he
said. So like Athena rules Athens, Serapis rules Egypt, Yahweh is Israel. All these gods have their
own regions. Anyways, Arcelaus is the next next student of Anaxagoras. Guess who he is?
Pure naturalist, basically an atheist. He has no, his belief system is everything has a natural,
everything came about in a natural order. Like he basically had this idea that like
the way the world was, it was all water and then the heat from the sun like had some reaction and
he's trying to be scientific. Yeah. And he was like, that was like a big deal for the time.
Right. And so it's a big change from where I just was going with this genealogy. But the reason
why he's important is because his big star student is Socrates. We all know that. Socrates is,
he's the one who decides that, I mean, he's kind of like a skeptic where reserve judgment,
like don't, don't be a dog in this. Always reserve judgment. Question. There is no like truth. Like
there's no like, there's no like, everything is, I mean, this even goes back to,
this even goes back to Heraclitus too. Heraclitus said that everything's in state of flux. So there
cannot be a solid truth because what's true today might not be true tomorrow. He's almost like,
that's an interesting because it's very subjective. This is where you get your
today they call it postmodernism. Right. But Socrates was very much like that. And so we're
getting closer to the big stuff. Stay with me. I know some of this might be boring. He teaches Plato.
Everyone knows Plato. Plato writes Tamaeus. He writes the republic. The reason why the republics
and the critics. Yeah. But the republic in the republic, it's such you got to read the republic.
In the republic, he talks about how Homer is no good. He's antagonistic to Homer.
The mythology, we need to replace Homer's mythology with something better for the youth.
The youth need to be taught that the good shall inherit. You know, I don't know if he uses the
term heaven or like he basically says that good go to a good place and the bad go to a bad place
when they die. You get these ideas from Plato. Also how to create a nation. You know, all of this
foundation laws and stories. You have to put your laws as far back in antiquity as possible.
The whole nine, he says, if you want to create, if you want to have a state where people will,
you know, follow the laws, they have to think these laws are divine and from God.
In way way. You see this in the Bible. Of course you see that in the but Deuteronomy,
these laws are from God. And like, you know what I mean? So you're seeing things. So these ideas
are like all over the Greek world. The stuff that you see in the Bible are all over the Greek world.
Plato teaches Aristotle. Okay. And Aristotle is the one who tutors Alexander the great. This
is when everything changes. He tutors Alexander the great. And supposedly he like he taught him.
He like he grew up teaching him basically like, you know, the
anything needs to know. But like, I guess he there's there's some sources saying like he got in
his head saying like, he taught him about like how when the Athenians came to Athens and destroyed
the temple to Athena and how devastating it was. And like he like revved up Alexander like
wanting to go into Persia and like take back what what they deserve. Anyways, that's a whole
nother topic. But one of the students of Aristotle is called Piero the skeptic.
Piero, he was a skeptic. He was also a high priest of Zeus. Like that's weird. He's a skeptic,
but he's a high priest of Zeus, which is that's just how the world was back then. You can be a
skeptic and you can be religious at the same time. Yeah, they wouldn't do that. Yeah, Piero the
skeptic. Look at Socrates was accused of being an atheist and he wasn't. He wasn't, but he was being
accused of it because he had a different kind of skeptical angle on the gods and stuff. But anyway.
Yeah. So Piero the skeptic is sent by Aristotle to travel with Alexander to the east. And then as
Aristotle's other student, his big student Theop, Theophrastus is the one who goes down to Alexandria
to take all the knowledge that I just mentioned, all the data, all the gnosis from from families
down. Yeah. And even before the hands, like they're kind of taken and everything. It's all in the
hands of Theophrastus now. And he goes to Alexandria to start this library. Piero the skeptic travels
with Alexander. He meets with the Magi. He meets with the gymnosophists, the naked philosophers,
the Brahmins. So he's they're starting to learn Eastern stuff. The Piero the skeptic goes and
brings that back to Alexandria. Alexander dies. So you get the wars, you get the solucids fighting
against the Ptolemies. And you get in here. And this is where Demetrius and jumps in the picture.
Yeah. Demetrius of Philarium was also a student of Aristotle. And when Aristotle left, it was he
was the student of Theophrastus. Demetrius of Philarium, we already told you who he was, all the
stuff that he did. He built out just for those who are tuning in now, because 270 people, he built
the Alexandria Library. He's part of that project. But he was also going around the world
collecting. Let me tell you what happened before that, though. So this is crazy.
So Alexander dies. And Antigonus the one eye was the old he was a general that was so old
that he was a general for Philip of Macedon. That's Alexander's father. He was a general for him
and Alexander. And so Alexander said, you're going to you rule Macedon while I'm in Babylon.
And so that's where he was. When Alexander died, Cassander, another general who was married to
Alexander's sister, her name is Thessaloniki named after the city where the book of Thessalonians.
Yeah, like her names. That's her name. Thessaloniki first and second Thessalonians.
They're their royal. She's the sister of the great God Alexander the great. He's married to her.
Right. So they but he wants to take Macedon for himself. So he usurps Antigonus takes over the
city. Now Demetrius of Philarion was the right hand man of Cassander. Now think of the best
comparison. If you want to think of like what Demetrius was like, you've ever seen Game of Thrones,
Littlefinger, Peter Baylish. That's him. Go if you don't know, you got to watch it scheming,
always thinking of the next smart always trying to give him get himself to the next high trying to
go up the ladder. And I'll show you why. Because what happens is because of his loyalty in helping
Cassander, by the way, Cassander killed Alexander the great's mother Olympus. They've tracked her down
and killed her, took over Macedonia. And then he became the king of Macedonia. Because of Demetrius's
help in doing so and his loyalty, he gave him Athens. So Demetrius becomes the king of Athens,
the Archon of Athens. And so he's that he's there for like 10 to 12 years, something like that.
However, another guy named Demetrius, this is confusing, just stay with me. I promise it's good.
Another guy named Demetrius, who's called Demetrius the savior. There's a reason why. Demetrius Sotir.
He's the son of Antigonus the one eye who just was murdered and he was served. He goes in and he
goes back to Macedonia, takes back the kingdom, kills Cassander, deposes them and puts back
Macedonia back to where it was when Alexander the great left it. So he gets the name Sotir, savior.
He gets worshiped. There's a god for this. Like he's he saved them from this tyrant,
Cassander, who wanted to bring oligarchy. All right. So what happens now? Demetrius
of Hilarion is still in Athens and he gets word that Demetrius the Sotir just conquered Macedonia
and his days are limited. He's next. They're going to come down and kill him. Like he you're done,
dude. You you're you're an enemy of the state. So what does he do? Just like Peter Baylish, the
little finger of Game of Thrones. Flip sides every time. Flip sides goes to the Ptolemies
and he becomes he becomes the head guy of the court of the Ptolemies and he helps build the
Alexandria Library. I tried to use Herod just letting our audience know. We walked this morning
and I was trying to explain like, all right, because I'm trying to wrap my head around this
is stuff that Neil's been studying for a while now and I haven't. And it made me think of Herod.
Herod was first. His first like devoted commitment was to Pompey. Pompey dies. That means because
Pompey was enemies with Augustus. What does Herod do? He goes and kisses Augustus his ass and says,
look, dude, and Augustus like, dude, I could kill you right now. Why should I not? And he goes,
I will be the best friend you have ever had in your life. And would you know it? Go check out
Maritime Caesarea. Go check out Caesarea. Go look at these places where Alexander the
or not Alexander the Great. Augustus had temples built by Herod in honor and even worship. Here's
a Jew who's like supposed to be religious and yet temples to Augustus. Dude, this guy was kissing
Augustus. But that's, but that's what Demetrius of Hilarion was like. He, he knew that his days
in the, in Greece were over. So he flees. He knows that the Ptolemies are at war with the
Macedonians. Right. Just like they're at war with the sluices. They're all at war with each other.
It's, it's the die out, the die out of key wars, right? So he goes down there and the same thing
actually happens to him told me, he was like, why should I kill you? Yeah, why shouldn't I kill you?
And apparently, according to Diogenes Latterius, he persuaded him and said, I will be your, I will
run the library. That's how you know, he wasn't just a complete like, he was smart. He wasn't just
an introvert. Like this guy had to have been brilliant both sides. You know what I mean?
He was brilliant. And so he, okay. So now he's in, now he's in Alexandria. He's building this library.
He starts collecting, he becomes obsessed with collecting books. In fact, Josephus tells us
all about this. Oh yeah, pull that book well. So this, there's so much going on here. We're in
Josephus, a historian who's documenting the, what it's circling around is the Septuagint,
the, the translation is we love to call it. Yeah. All of the Hebrew Bible. Yeah. So listen to me
says, Demetrius Valerius was who, who was a library keeper to the King, Ptolemy,
was now trying, if it was possible, to gather all the books that were in the habit of the earth.
And buying whatever was anywhere valuable or agreeable to the King's inclination,
to which inclination of Demetrius was zealously subservient. And once Ptolemy asked him how many
thousands of books he had collected, he replied, he had about 20,000 times 10,000.
But that in a little time, he should have 50 times 10,000. So he is commissioned to find
all the knowledge. He wants all the books in the world, right? No. But he said that he had been
informed that there were many books of laws among the Jews worthy of inquiring after,
inquiring after and worthy of the King's library, but which were written in characters
in a dialect of their own will cause no small pains getting them translated into the Greek
Tom basically is like, we know what's C. Reag and we know Aramaic. We will figure it out. We have
translators. So that the characters written seem to look like the Syrians and that sound sounded
the same when pronounced, also like there's two. So basically it's like he's like basically saying
it looks like Aramaic, Syriac, it's Hebrew, but that's just what they're saying. And then he says,
thus, that he hindered that they might not get those books to be translated also for nothing
wanting to exist there. Okay. Now you can read this on your own, but he mentions just so people
know where it's at, book 12 in Josephus chapter two, but I want to just have a few things highlighted
that are really important. Is this for the Jews? The complete works of Josephus. No,
yeah, it's antiquities. Okay. Okay. So they mentioned, so then then Josephus mentions a
bunch of names of people that are helping him in this project. And they're not these aren't
people from Italy, people from the Carthage people, he's mentioning people from all over
the Mediterranean. This is like an international project. This is like a big deal. And then he says,
Demetrius says to them, I have learned, he's talking to the Jewish high priest, he says,
I have learned by particular inquiry, for both these people, and we also worship the same God,
the framer of all things. We call him by the name Xena life or Jupiter, because he breathes life.
There it is again, breathing, because he breathes life into all men, wherefore, we store these men
to their own country, and this to do in honor of God, because these men pay a peculiar excellent
worship to him. Now, so this is the part that I think is interesting. And this is where we're
I'm going to let you take over because this gets in the Russell Germerkin stuff, and some other stuff.
Dr. Amon has been screaming from the rooftop, because he's a classicist who knows Greek,
and I agree, he thinks that the text is native Greek. Okay, he thinks that the translation is Hebrew.
So anyways, I'm just throwing that out there is there's a credible source, but you just say,
you know, Gamerican thinks it was originally written in Hebrew and translated. Yeah, just
just right. Okay, all right. But here's what it says. So now you're wondering.
I mentioned Hecateus of Abdera. Oh, I didn't mention him. Yeah, I'm sorry. I have to mention
Hecateus of Abdera. Yeah, who is he? Piero the skeptic, who traveled with Alexander the Great,
and came back to Alexandria. He had a student named Hecateus of Abdera. Now this guy,
Piero the skeptic, who traveled the world Alexander, brought back big chunks of cuneiform blocks.
He met with Magi, he met with Brahmins, and he brought this all the stuff he can brought to
Alexandria. He's got my Hecateus. Yeah, and guess what he writes about? He has the first book of
all time that mentions Moses or Abraham. What? I thought those books are written in the 8th
century, 9th century. You might find that Meshastelli says, David and Omri on it,
kings and chronicles stuff might be. There's no Moses or Abraham until Hecateus of Abdera
in the 4th century BCE. He's the student of Piero the skeptic, the first person to ever mention
Moses or Abraham, and he says that the Jews are from Crete. He says they're from Crete,
and they went to Egypt, and then he says that the God Amon hated them and kicked them out of Egypt,
and then they went to Israel. This isn't Manetha, right, where Manetho thinks that they were Jews.
Yeah, that's the first story you get about the Jews. You got it, okay. All right.
Because if you go to Herodotus, just so people know, you won't find them. They're not mentioned,
and he went through these regions. You have to mention that. We have so much text that predate
all this stuff, Herodotus, Xenophon, Thucydides. I mean, there's books and books and books and
books and books and books and books in Greek. There's writers from all over the place. There's
texts all over the place. Israel, it's never mentioned. Mention what you said because I did
not know this about the Manetha Steli and thought, okay, this is Israel on a Steli from Egypt.
Yeah. And so the Manetha Steli, people think it says Israel on there.
Is it Finkelstein that you said?
Israel Finkelstein, who's the top of the line.
Him and William Bieber.
He points it out. He says, look, they're not mentioning nations. They're mentioning cities.
Why would they mention a nation in a list of cities? Israel's a nation.
They're mentioning all these cities from that time period that existed in that time period.
Jezreel would be spelled exactly the same way in those Egyptian letters as Israel. Jezreel
was a city that existed in that time. So the Manetha Steli doesn't mention Israel, it mentions
Jezreel. According to the Manetha Steli.
According to Israel Finkelstein. Okay. Now, so you're wondering, here's the proof though.
I got proof that there's no mention right here.
Josie, it's right in front of your face.
And you have to like think about it for a second.
Josephus says, for which causes it, Hecateus of Abderus says that the poets and historians
make no mention of it, meaning like the Torah, the Bible, like the books of Moses.
He says that Hecateus says that the reason why the historians and poets
have made no mention of this stuff, nor those men who lead their lives according to it,
since it is a holy law and ought not to be published by profane mouths. So listen,
it's an argument of absence. He's doing apologetics. Josephus is saying,
okay, the reason why Israel or the Bible is never mentioned before Hecateus of Abdera
is because it's so holy that normal people were not allowed to know about this stuff.
Right. That's why you didn't hear that.
But what does that tell you? It proves that there is no mention of Abraham or Moses before
Hecateus of Abdera. Otherwise, he would not say that.
It's an interesting thing. So at the end of the day, like if there wasn't a mention,
if it was being mentioned, there's no way to prove it was, is my point. Because you're saying
there's no evidence before that's according to Josephus. Right. Okay. Yeah.
And this is during Hecateus, which is 4th century.
Yes. So let me clarify what I mean by this. You might be like, what are you trying to say here?
If Abraham and Moses were known figures before Hecateus of Abdera, 6th century,
5th century, 7th century BCE, if these people were known figures, okay, why would Hecateus
of Abdera say the reason why you never heard of him is because he's so holy? But wait,
they already heard of him. No. This tells, this signifies that people didn't know who they were.
And I need to, let me make one comment. Do you understand what I'm saying?
Yeah. Let me make one comment that thinks important. Josephus, Eusebius, you get to these
historians, because he is a bona fide historian, whether you trust everything he says or not,
you shouldn't trust everything any of these all say, but you got to take the grain of salt,
be skeptical about that as well. What I find interesting is they're hunting sources to the
best of their damn abilities to find stuff. Because look, he's in combat, and I'm talking about
pin combat. He's trying to defend his Jewish national root and heritage up against those who
might say, hey, we came first. Like, how often do you have them say stuff like, well, Plato got that
from Moses? Oh, they do. They say Plato is an adicized Moses. Now, think about this. Think of
the logic from here. Follow me real quick. They try so hard to make it flip. They try to make it
all the way around. It's not. Let me make one little point here that I think is just not observed
by the Christians who go in this. Josephus says that if there's any commonality, Mr. Derek, who
likes to see parallels, meth vision, and gnostic formulae, you all like to look and see if there's
any commonalities. Josephus admits the reason is because Plato borrowed from Moses. So there's an
admission on behalf of Eusebius, Josephus, that they're borrowing, but this is the way. That's
why I brought up Argonauts of the Desert here. This guy who wrote this book, Philip Wagenbaum,
it's a very difficult thing to spell. Let me pull it up on the screen so people see.
He argues in the introduction and throughout this book that the actual commission is the
opposite direction. Josephus and them are trying to say, our heritage is older. Y'all borrow from
us. But the reality is the argument, the evidence is on the side of no, you guys borrowed from the
Greeks. And the reason, and he gives several points, one is Greeks are not ashamed to say,
hey, we got this from Egypt. Hey, we got this from these people. They credited people. They had no
problem saying at all. There was no fear of saying, we got this from you guys. And in fact,
they even did art that backed up where they got their stuff from inscriptions, archaeology, you
name it. Whereas we have none the opposite direction. There is no Jewish art. And guess what?
Minnetho, Minnetho is writing in the third century BCE. So his sources for all this stuff
should be the Bible. That's not what he says. He says, his sources, hekates of Abdera. Why would
he do that? And we would not, why wouldn't he say, I got this from the, from the books of Moses?
He says, hekates of Abdera says this. Right, right, right. He's sourcing another guy. He's sourcing
hekates of Abdera. And I just want to make one comment. We're not saying, and neither are the
scholars that we're referencing here that are coming with this. We're not saying everything
was invented at this time. We're saying this Demetrius guy, let me give an analogy before we
get into this. For those who watch Netflix, who's ever watched making a murderer and was like,
I rate after watching this documentary, this guy named Stephen Avery got 18 years or some crap for
for a rape. He never did. Then they found him innocent. Next thing you know, a year or two
later, they find this woman who was murdered. They found the bones and all this stuff on the
property. You go watch the documentary. You'll see what I'm saying. At the end of the day,
this guy is still in prison. He has a, I think it's a nephew or something like a younger cousin.
I can't remember. He's also in prison. They like, like coercively got a confession out of him.
And the kid isn't, he's not all there. You can tell he, he isn't like, you know, they kind of
forced that confession out of him. Now my point is, why is he still in prison? According to the
court of law, if you have a suspect that's the most likely and you don't have another one to
point the finger at, that's why they think he was the probably the one who did it. They don't have
another suspect. That was the uphill battle that his attorneys had on trying to show that Stephen
Avery was innocent. I just want to say this at that point. And this is my point. Neil saying
that the only person we have that we can really point to, we can't prove that this is the case,
but based on the literature, it looks like the guy behind the commissioning of this literature that,
what does it mean to gather the laws? Neil, does it mean they just took older pieces of Jewish
ideas? You know what I'm saying? It only says laws. It doesn't say stories, epics, doesn't say
narratives. It just says law. Right. What does it mean? Exactly. Well, there probably was some
form of Deuteronomy or there probably was some actual form of Deuteronomy in Hebrew. But all
the evidence that you're pointing out that all of the written evidence from Josephus. No, the
narratives, the flood story, the story of Abraham, the story of Jacob, those are the stories that
are being written in this time period. So the compilation of the game. So I think they're
using sources. I think they're using legit Hebrew sources, legit, but they're not translating them
as word for word. They're using it to write a new thing. By the way, Kip, Kip's got a point here.
He says it's because he actually did it. That's why he's in prison. There could be evidence,
by the way, I heard the documentaries kind of giving you a one-sided thing. There's evidence
that maybe he did it. The point is, is if the picture we have, and we don't have all the evidence
that the lawyers really have, that was really in the case, the picture we have makes you a little
irritated and thinking he maybe didn't murder her. But my point is, all we have are these fragments of
ancient little things mentioned in this guy Demetrius, who's there in the building of Alexandria,
and who's the guy that might have commissioned or actually put this whole thing together,
the structures that we're talking about. And then he says this too. Okay. So Demetrius and another
guy from Italy are the ones who took 70 elders from the Hebrew tribes, six from each tribe,
put them in different rooms, and they had them write this story. This is like some fairy tale
version of what happened. It's propaganda easily. If you believe it, fine, cool. That's in the
sources. You can use that as a source. Fair. I'm all down for people who just use sources.
If you use that as a source, go ahead. But I just, I don't believe it. Now, Demetrius says,
he says the same thing Hackate says. This is so funny. This is gonna, this is a double,
you just got the one punch. Now you're getting the uppercut. Okay. He says,
so the king rejoiced when he saw the design of this nature was brought to perfection,
talking about the book. It's such a great advantage. He was chiefly delighted with hearing the laws
read to him, and was astonished at the deep meaning and wisdom of the lawgiver. And he began
to discourse with Demetrius how it came to pass. And when this legislation was so wonderful,
no one, either of the poets or the historians, had made mention of it. So Xenophon, Herodotus,
Deucidides, they never mentioned these laws, right? That's what they're saying right here.
Demetrius made this answer that no one dared to be bold as to touch upon the description
of these laws, because they were divine and venerable. And because some that attempted were
afflicted by God, if you talked about the Torah, you would die. That's that is such a
whole get it. Do you believe that? Like, come on guys, put your hat, do you actually believe this?
Seriously. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This, I mean, this tells you that this is a new thing. Right, right, right.
And I think Gamerkin and Dr. Ammo and others who think that the Bible is a Hellenistic era
text. Well, this guy, right. And by the way, Maccabees, Daniel, those are Zechariah.
They're always apocalyptic nature. These are all Hellenistic era texts. You even have
experts in Hebrew and Aramaic who say, when they look at Daniel, they'll say, this is not written
in 500. This is written in like two, probably 150 BC. Right, 170. Yeah, they're like, this is
way later. Yeah. So if those texts are way later, it's like, what? So this is the interesting thing.
All of the guys that we're talking about that are what we would call minimalists or coming from
like a Hellenistic kind of angle are not denying old, they think like Hosea, they think these other
prophets are ancient. Okay. And that those are sources that are being used in the compilation
of this. They're not saying all this was invented. I want to read that. I also want to clarify what
we, I'm going to give you what you think happened. I feel like I think happened because I don't think
it's one, I don't think it's black and white. I think there's some great area here on what's going
on. Okay. We'll get to super chats here in a minute. I will say this. What do you think happened?
Honestly, no matter what, the Bible would be created. That's the question. So for me, I personally
think there are several sources, old ancient sources. Okay. You said it yourself, right? Let's
just say Demetrius is their guide. Since we don't have any other suspects, Demetrius is the guy
who's commissioned to go. He builds the elephant. Can we show them the elephantine yet? No, we're
going to get to that in a minute. Okay. Wait. Just to back up what we're saying, there's various
arguments you can make here. No, we should show them now because we have to show that this is
so important. This is proof that before the time of Demetrius, Jews were still polytheistic.
So right here, the Jews had their own temple of Yahweh. This is 5th to 4th century BC.
This is not that far back. This is not ancient, ancient 17th century, which functioned alongside
that of the Egyptian god Noom. Along with Yahweh, other deities and not Batel, Ashambabel seem to
have been worshiped by these Jews. This is just Wikipedia, but you can actually go and look at
these. No, no, no. You can show them the source. Highlight that at 15 right here. So okay, that's
from the Tetragrammaton. Of course, Yahweh. That's just the name Yahweh. This is from
Puello Sacchi, the temple. This is an expert. So yeah, we have real sources here.
People talk down about Wikipedia. You shouldn't just check the sources. That's all.
Don't look at it yourself, but it says like literally right here. Wikipedia is fine.
Inventing polytheistic beliefs. Anyone who goes and reads several of the places, like in Deuteronomy
32, you can see this kind of remnant of what looks polytheistic or henotheistic. You have an older
multi-god system. Fifth, fourth century BCE, they're still doing this. Now, one can argue and
this is the poly... There's only a hundred years before Demetrius. But this is the apologetic.
They'll go, well, in Jerusalem, it was strict monotheism, but in this place, it's polytheism.
Show me. Gamerican points itself. No, my question is, you can't just say that. You have to show me that.
Right. You have no right to just implement that into the conversation. You've watched the
same discussions with the American in the past. Right.
He points out that the Elephantine wrote Jerusalem. They were like, they're commissioning it.
Like, you guys are good. Exactly.
So why would they be, hey, we're hyper-monotheist in Jerusalem, but we're cool with what you guys
are doing down there as Jews. Doesn't make sense.
There's no temple and everything. Doesn't make sense.
Right. So we want... Especially archaeology shows that asheropoles are still around.
Why all the way then? It's just tough for me to think that Josiah...
What's more likely? What's more likely? A guy like Demetrius comes along with all this
Greek knowledge that there's this one God that's in control of all the daemons and angels.
What's that? He brings this to the table or the other way around.
We know that Demetrius had this knowledge. We don't know that they did.
This is... That's why... That's why I'm just going with what the source is telling me.
If you asked me, looking at Yonatan Adler, who is like on the cutting edge of the origins of
Judaism, he points out we have... These are his words. I'm not even putting these out there.
This is not me and his conspiracy myth vision propaganda here. He has said in all of his
research, archaeologically, there is no evidence before... Pretty much before what happens with
the Maccabees. There is no evidence before that time period of Judaism being practiced.
And by the way, all those Maccabees, they all have Greek names.
Jason Maccabees. And they're all Hellenized.
I've asked him too. I was like, dude, what if there was like this small, tiny little priestly
sect that had one pool in there? He goes, I mean, we might be missing something. That's possible.
But it's like, as far as I know, right now, he says there's no evidence before this time period
that Judaism as a religion was practiced or believed on this level. You get the elephantine,
you're looking at some weird stuff. This is not Judaism on that level. There are remnants, though,
you might see similarities to things that become Judaism later. But this is like the primitive
little molding prince that someone finally got together and said, let's make this...
But you know what? Religion. Even in the first century, when you start getting a break, a break
off from Christianity and Talmudic, what do you call it? What kind of Judaism is a rabbinic
Judaism? Right, right, right. When you start seeing that break off, even... So a lot of people will
say, obviously, the Christians are the more Hellenized ones. The Gospels are Greek. Yeah, of
course. But even the rabbinic Jews are very Platonic. They're writing dialogues with a Mishnah
and a Gamour going back and forth the same way that Socrates and Archelaus are going back and
forth. It's very Platonic. And by the way, they call themselves sages. The word sage in Greek is
Sophos. Wisdom. Sophos. And if you're interested in a book... Let me finish this. Let me finish this.
Sophos. Greek. In Hebrew, it's... I wrote it down. It's hot menu. Wisdom. They call themselves sages.
Sorry, go ahead. No, Jews and the Roman rivals. Cateau Berthelot. She shows how indebted
pagan Rome, before it became Christian, had a huge impact on Jews. And this is... It's kind of like...
I hate using this analogy, but it's an analogy worth using because it kind of tells you like
the apologetic is... No, no, no, no, no. They borrowed from the Jews. No, no, no, no. They were
influenced by the Jews. No, no, no. Any type of thing you're going to find, it's not because the
Jews borrowed from them. They're holy people. They would never do such a thing. It's always the other
way around. You get it from Josephus. You get it from the church fathers. But the other problem is,
it's like the nations that were in charge, that conquered and were in control, the influence
comes from the conqueror. Take what happened with... This is why I hate to mention the example,
but take what happened with slavery in America. The influence was the white man impacted the slave.
You didn't have like these huge societies of people that were like, I'm copying the tribalism
of these slaves that we got from Africa. It was always the conqueror that did this. It's not a
devil, but it's true. But sometimes the conquered also gets their culture... And you have like
Santeria is down in South America and those islands down there, and that comes from Africa.
Well, today we're seeing cultural infusion, but I'm saying at that time... It's like when the
Romans conquered the Greeks, the Greek culture swept it. So sometimes it goes both ways.
I just had to use that. I hate using that analogy, but it's still one that makes a point that the
conquered is usually the one making the influence, always. And so there's that huge apologetic of
always trying to make it, because they don't want... What is the implication if you're this
literalist who absolutely needs to believe that the influence is from the Jews, because their God
is the true one? It's like saying, if you're a Muslim and I say to you, hey, look, how did the
Quran come to be? And he said, an angel in a cave literally told my prophet Muhammad. And I said,
well, what's in your book? And I opened your book and I go, wow, that looks like the sleepers of
Ephesus, a Christian thing in the third century. Holy smokes, you're talking about the dual horn,
you know, dual karnat, dual karnat. That looks like the same Alexander romance things that's
running around for like five centuries. And they go, oh, no, it only came from an angel in a cave.
Dude, I'm so glad you brought that up. It's like, bro, no, it came from the seven sleepers.
Yes. Like you get all these texts that show from the Quran that you see in Byzantine works,
which was the period that Islam came out of. But to back up a little bit,
Verosis is a Chaldean writing in Greek. He's writing back ancient Babylonian stories. And
people always say this as an argument for early authorship of the Torah. It's because of all these
references that look like Ishtar stories, Marduk stories, Tiamat stories. And this is great, great
argument, great argument. However, Verosis has this there already. Verosis already is-
This is the point. Not only does Verosis have these stories in the third century BCE, but
we have Cuneiform tablets that talk about Alexander the Great. That means in the Greek
period, when the Greeks were ruling all of Persia and Babylon, the Middle East, Cuneiform was still
in being in use and was translated and written with, which means that argument's out the window.
You don't have to go back to 3000 BC or 900 BC to write the Torah anymore. It can be done in
200 or 300 BCE. The tools are there. Here's an example for this is the thinking that I just
don't understand how if you're really seriously critical, you should be critical of your own
position as well. But when I hear stuff like, look, the Quran just reiterates what the original
Bible and Torah said. Now listen, the reason that is said is because this is exactly what
Muslim teachings tell you is that like, no, no, no, they just corrected the wrong stuff.
Here's the interesting thing. If you take a Hellenistic period for the actual creation of
what we consider the totality of our Bibles, let's say, and it was still kind of,
it wasn't set in stone. Things were still being written and changed. My point is you're talking
eight, 900 years before you come around. You don't have any of those sources.
You have no, none of the sources except the story that a guy in a cave with an angel
is giving you the correct understanding. We should be very cautious instead of just believing
in the propaganda. The early Muslims were very brilliant and they were very,
I mean, they were deep thinkers. They were philosophical. They weren't, these people were,
I just don't know. I mean, assuming they have the correct original version of any of that,
we have no copy of anything original to show that. One of the, so one of the,
one of the doctrines that comes from the Socratics and Pre-Socratics is the idea of,
where did I have it written here? The idea that incomprehensibility, it's called the
doctrine of incomprehensibility. It means God is so like unknowable. It's incomprehensible
that you can't put a face on it. It looks like Islam seems to have that mentality.
By the way, the Arabics early on, the eighth and ninth century were translating Aristotle.
Do you know that a lot of the stuff, we lost Aristotle's works and we preserved by the Arabics.
There was an Islamic golden age in the ninth century. People don't know that. In the ninth
century, the Arabics were ruling the world. They were the, they were the, like the Mecca,
like it was called the Islamic golden age, ninth century. And they were on top of mathematics
and geometry and everything. This is true. And everyone always tries to put Islam in this campus.
If you're a Christian or a Jew, you have nothing on Islam. You just look dumb if you're
trying to make yours look better than theirs is. It seems like special pleading.
And I'm calling all of it out. That's what I'm trying to say. That's what I'm trying to say.
Like yours is, yours is no better. Sorry. Yeah. And I hear the Christians go against the Muslims,
Muslims go against Christians and that debate always happens and I'm sitting here like,
and then I get, you know, in the chats, who was it just now that said,
they said, you should, Twitter said, you should debate your position on the crucible. So
Neil might do debates. I don't know what it is. See, here's the thing. I don't do debates. Yeah,
I don't care. I'll do it. And if I need to give a reason why I don't debate people,
I can. One of them's, I like to keep my ego and my learning like to where I'm always flexible to
learn because when you're defending a position as someone, all of these people that are sitting
here debating that are doing this endless online rhetoric are probably learning from their master,
their teacher, who they claim is the guy. And they're not like, there's, there are, I did this
for years back in the day. I did debate. They're arguing, debating for what is the truth.
Trying to catch you in something. But here's the thing. They are right in their position.
And to me, I'm like, look, I'm not interested in sitting here acting like I have all the answers.
But if you're not using common sense critical thinking, when your book comes 900 years after
a source, you have zero original sources and your narrative is an angel in a cave told a guy.
And I have all the evidence outside of your book to show that the material in your book
is coming from pre-existent sources surrounding this area. We now know Christians were in Arabia.
We now know Jews were traveling in this time. It was not blocked off from Christianity.
There were Christian monasteries down in area. So like, all the evidence points to
natural development for the Quran and why this is the case.
You see Gnostic elements in there too. The story of Iblis and the Quran, the story of Iblis.
Basically, Iblis is Satan. And Iblis is supposed to bow to Adam. And Iblis says,
why would I bow to a martyr? No, I'm not going to do that. And then he gets, then I'll fix him
out of paradise. Well, there's a story in a Gnostic, there's a a Coptic text. And I think it's Satan.
I'm not sure it could be a different angel or it's just, you know, it's Satan. Yeah, it's Satan.
And Satan's same thing. Hey, Satan bow to Adam. No, I will not bow to Adam. Okay, if you're
going to paradise, it's in the Quran. Right. Right. And you like, where did this come from?
Where did that come from? Who I wonder where? And unless you show me the sources, well,
their sources, Angel told them in a cave is a revelation. The thing is, it's like, you don't
have any primary, anything to show any of that and claim you have this. Like we have original
copies that Jews distorted all the others, but ours are true. Right. Dude, this is exactly what
anyone who's going to create like Plato says, create your law, say it dates back the oldest.
Yeah, there is the same label. The Arabs found the playbook and they make and they followed it
and it worked. It worked. They look, look at the results. And it's so good. They ended up
conquering all of the Eastern Roman Empire, everything from from North Africa, all of Egypt,
all of the Mediterranean, all of the Levant, and most of Turkey. The only people who ever
conquered more quicker were Mongols. That was it. Yeah. So they, but it was obviously a sword.
They also had a good, they hired people on. There was all sorts of reasons they're working on the
law. There's a book written by people. I can't even think of his name right now. I'm not, I'm not,
I'm not signaling you out. People always say this about Muslims that they did it by the sword.
So did everybody else. Exactly. I'm just saying. They always say, they always say
they conquered with the sword. Like it's some sort of, it's like so did the Romans.
I agree. So did, so did the Persians. I want to make that point though. It wasn't just their ideas.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, but that's, that's how everything is. Right. But in the Greek world,
Alexander the Great, look at how he did it. Notice who's Dulkarni, who's the greatest example,
but the conqueror himself, who ends up being Alexander the Great. That's another thing that
Muslims watch. They get irritated. They go, how do you know, is Alexander the Great, dude? Early,
like several early exegetes of the Koran were like, yeah, this is Alexander the Great. They had no
problem with saying that. Then others might have tried to say it with someone in place or something.
There's, there's, okay. So if you look at the Dulkarni texts in the Koran, it mentions that
there's two mountains and the Dulkarni builds a border to keep out the people from Gog and Magog.
Now, if you go back to the Alexander romance, Alexander goes where there's two, it says,
literally says two mountains and then builds a border to keep out Gog and Magog. It's the same
texts except one of them has Dulkarni. And by the way, it gets even crazier because guess what
happens when you look up Alexander the Great's coin? Are you going to show them? I'm just pulling
up Dulkarni. Just show them the coin real quick. I'm trying to figure out how do you spell for
Dulkarni. Show them that coin right there. Real quick here. Let me share my screen.
Okay, that coin, the two horns. That is the most you, that coin was in service. They found that
coin, archaeologists have found this coin in Europe, like where modern day France is. It's also in
India. This coin was the most circulated coin on the planet during the time of the Quran.
He has two horns on his head. Well, you can see one, but obviously he's known for the two. He's
known for being the son of deity. It means divine. He's the two horn. He's the two horn guy. He set
up a barrier to keep out Gog and Magog in between two mountains. And that's Armageddon.
There's so, between these two texts, there's so much in common that to me, it's like impossible.
It's like a 0% or 0.1% chance that it could be a coincidence.
There was like an apocalyptic thing about Gog and Magog with this wall that was
happening in the culture of the world at the time. I want to bring up something here. Tommaso
Tessie. I interviewed him in the past who actually talks about this, two horned one. He's like a
leading expert when it comes to Quranic studies and actually found this story is outside of the
Quran, predates it by centuries. And it's Tommaso Tessie. So if you ever look up the Dua Quranine,
check out Tommaso Tessie. I've done an interview with him. We talk about this and he pretty much
just nails it. He searched the Syriac manuscripts that were outside the whole time.
That's another thing. Good point. The Greek, Alexander Romantic was written in Syriac and
Arabic before the Quranic written. They had versions of it. So there's so much evidence
that points towards them using it. So why would we say, why would we jump to the magical, the
supernatural, the revelation? And why regurgitate that unless it's like prideful? And I have no
interest personally. No interest debating anyone, let alone one that's just going to find any loophole
out of any explanation for historical, critical, obvious common sense to me. It's like, okay,
it walks like a duck. It talks like a duck. It's a zebra. To me, it's like, we can't even rationally,
I don't think, make sense of this without like, you would do this with the Bible. Muslims watch
my stuff all the time and go, hallelujah, you're right about that book of Genesis. Oh, wow, you're
right about the gospels being extremely Hellenized and Greek and stuff. Then we get to the Quran.
Oh, you're wrong about that. It's like, but then vice versa, Christians will see what I say about
Islam. Whatever one you grew up in, it's got to be the right one. It just never ends. Super
trust. Yeah. Dude, you've been going like, I think we, I think we told the story and wanted to tell.
Demetrius is the best candidate. I just wanted to teach you. Demetrius of Filarium is a guy
put together a text that everybody in the world knows what is it. And that's the Bible. And so
he should be a household name. Like the whole New Testament, I would say the whole, including
Revelation, but I could be mistaken on this because it seems like his original tongue wasn't
Greek because that's probably the worst written New Testament book. But it's indebted to the
LXX, to the Satuajah. Yeah. And so your entire New Testament is indebted to a man who compiles,
like making sure. Oh, that's the one thing I wanted to ask you. We wanted to ask, what do you think
happened? What, like, based on what we said, how do you think the Bible started? When do you think
it was written by who, which side was translated? I think I'm with you with it being gray and not
knowing. That's what I was like. I do think there was like this, let's put these texts and make it
into this narrative. Yeah. And the more I study from these people like Russell Gamerican and study
from the scholar here who did Argonauts of the Desert, Philip Wajenbaum, Lindke, Philip R. Davies,
a lot of Minimus School, Thomas L. Thompson, people like this who turned over the consensus of
Abraham being a historical guy, Moses, these things. I'm starting to get further and further,
like, later. I'm just all, I'm asking for more evidence on the others of their being stories
of Abraham and Moses in the sixth show. Like, where, I just want someone to show me that. Okay.
Yeah. And I'm open to it. Kip said something about a Exodus that was mentioned, but it was
an anonymous person. Moses wasn't part of it. And it's in one of these older eighth century, I think.
I might be mistaken. I might have missed. Oh, I think Kip was saying something about
Hosea was written eighth century. That seems to be that. Oh, that's what I was going to say
for my answer. I think some of these prophet texts are legit. Yeah. And I think some of that stuff
was probably incorporated the law, some of those law books. I don't think they translated these
texts verbatim. I think they took the text, used them as sources, and then made something new out
of it. I mean, I wouldn't be surprised. That's, that's, that's, I think that best explains
everything. Right. I think that's the way to, I think there had to have been some Hebrew native
sources that they got their hands on. 100%. Dude, that there's not a single person that we're talking
about this guy right here. It's just, you're just going way too far. And with like, it's just like,
it's you're, you're trying too hard to fight to argue for one side. Like, let's, let's look at the
data for what it is. Like, there, there had to have been actual sources that these people found,
like, like Demetrius, he's trying to compile everything and bring it in. And, but I do think
that he put together something brand new from it. Right. That's what I think.
I wouldn't be shocked. All of them say that the, they are working with older sources. Yeah. They're
not denying that at all. But they're saying that the final composition of this guy right here,
Wagenbaum, he says Genesis through second Kings. That's a lot of material. Oh yeah. That's, that's
a lot of material, but I highly recommend checking it out. That's, that's nothing. When, what do you
think, when do you think it stops being mythology and starts becoming historical? And to me, it's
David. I think it's David and forward. I think that there's a turning point. I think, I think
because you get, you know, you mentioned David, that we got Stellys. I think that David is highly
mythology though. I'm not saying there wasn't a guy. I'm just saying, I know I'm not saying like
his story is true. Right. But what I'm saying is I think as a kingdom, that's true. I think there
might have been a small city state in Jerusalem, which is now called the city of David. I think
there might have been something that existed there and those kings are historical and they're,
they did get beaten by the Assyrians and captured and taken over to that. I think that's all
historical. I don't know. I just don't think, I think before that, I think when you start getting
into Noah and Abraham and Moses, all of that, none of that happened. Well, yeah, that's so,
that's why I loved about Thomas L. Thompson when he wrote in 1970, something on the historical
patriarch of David or Abraham, he flipped the consensus. Yeah. So that's, that's my final,
my final answer is the kings and chronicles section is based in historical as far as timeline goes.
Genesis? No way. Genesis is pure mythology, just like Hesiod or, you know, Homer. Actually,
it's probably more mythology than Homer is. Homer actually has like, like real events. There's like
kings mentioned that are real. Well, there's kings, like Croesius and like, there, Homer's
mentioning some stuff that's historic. That's why I was telling the apologists, man, I'm like,
dude, this is real. I think Genesis has more myth than Homer is. I think you're right. Yeah. Genesis,
for sure. But then, they don't even name the pharaoh, bro. They don't name the pharaohs. There's no
pharaoh, right? They just say a pharaoh. A pharaoh, right. Yeah. And that's what I'm saying. And,
and or Nimrod, who's Nimrod? There's no Nimrod. We have, we have the Babylonian kings list. We have
all the Egyptian pharaoh's list. There's nothing. You can go to Luxor. I was in Egypt,
and I saw the walls, and I had a guy that can try, that can show me, tell me what was on these
walls. And he was, he was there every day. He knows every wall there. You can read it. I don't
know if you can read it, but he knows what it says. And he, and I would ask, what does it say?
No, this is a list of the kings. Oh, what is this? This is, oh, that says Osiris. Oh, that's for,
okay. They have on Egypt, Luxor, Saqqara, Alexandria, Heliopolis, Giza, wherever you want to go.
Everywhere you go on the walls is text. There's more, they have Alexander the Great's entire world.
Alexander the Great's entire life story is written in the walls of Luxor.
Right. They have a picture of Alexander with a big boner.
Oh, no, no, I'm sorry. It's Amon with a big boner looking at Alexander.
Isn't that weird? Like, I don't know what that means, but like, it's just, it's the God Amon.
He's got a giant boner, and then Alexander the Great's looking at him like this. Like, it's like,
and then it says like, you are my son. That's in Luxor. So you have, the point I'm, the point,
50 shades of Egyptian gray, the point I'm making is with all over the country of Egypt,
north, south, wherever you go is text and history everywhere. No, there's nothing about
Abraham or Moses or Jacob. There is, and there is something weird though. This is in Herodotus.
Herodotus tells us a story about a dynasty of kings in Egypt that was, there was 12 of,
12 families that intermarried with each other. And they kept, that was look at the walls. Yeah,
we might have to go dig into that next time. Because I mean, and I know Kip knows the law codes
pretty well being like specifically centered on the Bible. And that very well could have been one
of the texts that Demetrius found and brought to the table. Well, just, just to bring this up for
the audience who may not know that there are some weird laws that seem to be like Mary within your
tribe, especially Ezra and Nehemiah stuff. But like, it's very xenophobic, which is a Greek word
to kind of say, you don't need to. I mean, I was going to get into some of the super chats today.
But real quick, someone commented something about the Younger Dryus proves Noah. And I've heard
this a lot when we did our, we've been doing our documentaries and a lot of these kind of ancient
alien types have come out of the woodworks in like, you know, yeah, the aliens are the ones who
built this and the pyramids were made by this, you know, all these things. But like the Younger
Dryus is 12,900 to 11,700 years ago into like the Bible has, you can, you know, the Bible has dates
in it. Like in the third year of Darius, blah, blah, blah happened. Okay. Mark that on the piece of
paper. Every time it mentions in the third year or the 10th year, mark it on a piece of paper,
you can make a list and you will have an entire timeline of the Bible. The flood cannot go past
either tooth. It's like 2000 BCE. It can't go past that. So it could be like 1700 BCE.
Let me just point out, Crecganford, who does mythology YouTube videos as well,
which I love watching this mythology stuff, make sure you subscribe. No, the flood myth started
in Southeast Asia around 30 K years ago. Now here's the point. He's not saying that, that this
Noah is this story, the stories, myths are just kind of being passed on and regurgitated culture
after culture generation after generation. The point I'm getting at, and I think you would
understand what I'm saying here, John, is that there are people who are trying to say,
no, Noah's story is true. And it, it's an actual guy who actually during the younger drafts built
a boat and survived this flood when the Ice Age melted. Ducalion's older than Noah.
There's more. I mean, the sources, I'm just talking, I just like the sources. People want to say,
Noah was written before like, okay, where's the sources? The story of Ducalion is mentioned by
historians before any earliest. The story of Noah is mentioned by historians. So if you have a third
century Noah, your sources, right? Right. If you have a seventh century Hesseon mentioned Ducalion.
Yes. Okay. And then you have a third century Bible supposed reference, the earliest ever
mentions the name Noah. Then why are we assuming Noah is 15th century BC or whatever? Right.
When we don't have any evidence, no one mentions Noah, but a third century. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
You have plenty of people mentioning Ducalion's flood. No one mentions Noah until 300.
Yeah. It's all just, you know. Okay. Super chats. We got it. We got to give people love. We
apologized. We ran with that one. That was good. That was good. We get hype and, you know, just
jump in. Definitely looking forward to the elephantine piece. Can you give us a teaser?
You know what? I should do it deeper on the elephantine at some point. We need to get a scholar
who specializes on this and really, you know, get an expert in the elephantine papyri
to come on and talk with them. Maybe we do a documentary on it and cover some of this stuff.
You know what I mean? Frank, Frankenstein, Frankenstein. You two are good. It's worth noting
that Thales is also often called the father of silent science and cartography. Cartography.
Cartography. Fascinating turn of events. Yeah. For sure. Thank you so much for that.
Really. He's one of the seven sages of Greece, man. That shocked me when you said that and
then went all the way down to the Septuagint. You have a direct line from Thales to this guide
Demetrius. Like that's, it's like, I just don't understand why that's not a, that should be,
that's a big deal. Yeah. And then shouldn't that impact how we view the New Testament that's
eventually dependent on the Septuagint? And that is like, you get Nietzsche saying Christianity
is Platonism for the masses. Like, why do you think someone like Nietzsche, who's a philologist,
is saying that? Like, there's good reason to think that. They see some dots. They're not
Platonist documents. Yeah. Wow. Thank you so much, Frankenstein.
Apollos. Good to see you here, brother. Christian apologists. Apologetic. Sorry. In my opinion,
I concede Christianity interacted with other cultures. However, nothing is unique in so far
that everything is different combination of stuff. To your points though, we should work with our
similarities. I agree. And you know that you've private message to me. Look, if my antagonism
ever comes out, it is not universal toward people of faith. It is really trying to get people to
be more mature in what they know. And faith is your personal call at the end of the day,
even though I personally don't draw the conclusion. I get why people do. And I don't knock
that. So, I just want to make that clear to anyone. And I apologize if I've ever come across
that way. But if you think something's true, I hope you're honest in saying what you think.
And I'm not going to hold that judgment against you. And I might reason with you to ask you why
and then be critical, whatever. I hope you could do the same for me. So, Craig and Ford,
Hallelujah, guys. Speaking of hallelujah. Good to see you. That word shows up
before that columnicus is a Alexandria, same place, same time period, uses the word hallelujah
as a chant for Artemis, the goddess. There's no Yahweh in that text. It's Artemis. He says,
hallelujah, Artemis. Go look it up for yourself. Where is that? Hymns of Calimicus. Hymns of Calimicus.
Okay. How do you spell that? C-A-L-L. Let me do this. Hymns of C-A-L-L. I am. I am. C-A-C-H-U-S.
A-C-H-U-S? Yeah, right there. PDF. You get the PDF one? Yeah. Yeah, let's show them this.
Okay. Let's show them this. Okay. Can you do a find? Can you do a find? You know how you can do
find? I'm looking for a command find or something. I can do that. Because I don't know exactly where it
is. No, it's right that you're on it. Yeah, but I don't know how to do the command find. Does anyone
with a Mac know how to search the words on a page? I don't know. I think it's command F. Try it. For
Mac. Go to that page. I think it's command F. Go ahead. Yep. Okay. Now copy and paste hallelujah.
Let me just spell it.
Not pop. I wonder if it's spelled different. Try A-L. A-L. Just do H-A-L. Just try A-L.
That's Alexandria. Keep going. Uh-uh. Hello. We try it like this.
Wait. What'd you do? Switched over. Go ahead. Oh, go ahead.
Oh. How big is this file? Wait. Is this all of it? How many hymns we got here? That's what I was
wondering. All right. I'll just try. I'll just find it, actually. Let's see. That's hymn to Apollo.
Well, you may not be able to find it. It might have limited your search in here because you have
words up. Words are, yeah. We got to find Artemis. Hymn to Zeus.
Hymn to Apollo. Hymn to Artemis. Okay. Here we go. Daughter of Lito.
I'm trying to like skimp through it. Yeah. I'm just like, it's hard to like,
I know it's in here though. I've seen it a million times. I'll send a link in the chat.
I'll let everybody else that they want to go check it out. That's a lot to go through there.
It is. It is. It is. I think it is towards the end though. Lady of many names.
Let's just share. Okay. Whatever. Yeah. So, all right. I'm sending you the link. Neil recommended
everybody check out. If you're wanting to see that, there it is. And we're going to continue here.
Thank you so much for that super chat. Lately, Stop Skipping Man says,
Lately, Guts at Gibbon, Erica did an especially fascinating video called
oldest common genetic material is now 2 million. I think is it 2 million years or something like that?
Yeah. I saw some of it eating breakfast the other day and then I couldn't watch the whole thing.
But she's, I love watching her. I love watching her though. She's good. And then like even like
they're finding like figurines of like what could be a goddess. I'm not really sure.
You know what they call it? They call them the Venus figurines. Oh my gosh.
Those keep getting older too. Like the first, first it was like one was 20,000 years old.
Everybody's like, oh, then they're like, oh, it's 100,000 years old. And then it was like
200,000 years old. I think this one is 300,000 years old right now. Yeah.
Somewhere in like North Africa or something. That's crazy. Yeah.
Blake, Derek, in a past video, you talked about sexual themes and antiquity. A soldier gets stabbed
in battle means his virginity is taken. Where can I learn more? You know, I, that was with Stephen
Nelson. My buddy Stephen, who's a huge Greek guy, loves the Greek world. He pointed that out to me
and I did not get a particular source. And I just got his word of mouth on this because he loves to
study this. But it's the idea that in the ancient world, a woman loses her virginity by being
penetrated by the penis, but the man loses his virginity by being pierced or cut in battle.
And that was something he said is in the Greek world. The way that they do that is quite interesting.
I don't even know where to begin in terms of searching, but googling it and then seeing if
you can find a source. There are probably articles written by scholars out there that
do talk about this. I can't imagine he just pulled that up and just made that up. I think
there's probably something to that. I say that because look how sexual the Bible is. Look at
the book of Revelation, the whore of Babylon. There's constant like committing fornication with
her. He doesn't mean you're literally sleeping with Rome, but it's figurative to say like,
you're cooperating with this, you know, place that's going to go down in hell and God's going
to destroy and all that. So that's, there's a lot of that language that plays a role, but
wouldn't be shocked. So that's what my recommendation would be Blake. I have not dug into the sources
myself, but it interests me. Apollos, in other words, truth can have nonunique parts. Thank you.
Well, I mean, if we're defining truth as in like some meaning, we talked about this the other day,
how some atheists are so, they like, they're so antagonistic to the metaphor, to the symbolism,
to the parables, things like that, that they kind of are closed off to something that is fictional
from being impactful. And if you consider the Bible to be mythological and fictional in some way,
then can you glean from it? Is there any insights we can get from it? And a lot of
atheists are so antagonistic toward it because there's a religion that plays a role in politics
and all that kind of stuff that they don't look at that, but they might go watch Lord of the Rings
and walk away and go, that was the best moral story. And you're like, you know, that's complete
fiction and you still think there's truth to it. So what do we mean by truth, right? I feel like
I'm just piloting that. Right. Hidden gnosis. Good to see you here, my friend. Neil, you should
scan that notebook of yours and put a PDF form of it up for sale. I'd buy that. So it's like
chicken scratch. Dude, I can't even read it. It's like hieroglyphics decoded. Check out the Egyptian
hieroglyphics. Shane Ekwall, thank you for that 20. I really appreciate the love and the support.
Thank you for being here in the chat. I hope you've been able to tolerate us. We get hyped,
dude. It's like a football commentary and we're interrupting each other.
Dimitri has said, but that's what brothers do. Hypercube says, very interesting. Thank you,
Hyper. Appreciate that. Thanks for the support. We'll appreciate that. Phelonius Punk,
loving the info and the back and forth between you guys. This is great. Thank you. Appreciate that.
This is what me and Neil do. He did we get hype and we have fun doing it. He's my brother. For those
who are tuning in here at the end, there's a couple of things we do want to just mention.
First thing I want to say for those who didn't know, Neil's actual twin brother passed away
two days ago. Three days ago. Three days ago. His actual brother passed away. This has been a good
distraction, I think, from what's going on in New York with family and stuff. It's made me want to
try and help save my brother, who's going through serious addiction battles right now, him and his
wife. It's a disease. It's a tough thing to overcome. He's here with me. He's in good hands. He said
last night while we were watching the movie. What's this? I can't even think of the movie.
Oh, Oppenheimer. I can't even think of Oppenheimer. It was amazing. That movie. He was like, I'm glad
I'm here. The cinematography. Every shot was beautiful. The way it's been. Because you and I
would make content so we know when something looks good and clean and smooth, we're not directors,
but this is the greatest thing I've ever seen as far as the picture quality, the sound, the music,
the black holes sucking the scene and everything. It was so intense. It was very intense.
But you were like, last night you were like, I'm glad I'm here. If you're going through it,
reach out to people. Don't be alone. It's good to go to a three-hour movie when you're
trying to escape reality. With good people. A couple more super chats and then I want to
bring up something we didn't bring up. John Dee, are you going to get back into interviews soon?
I imagine I will be doing interviews for sure, but I'm also trying to steer my direction into
making higher quality content because that is actually what does better. You have to follow
what works best. I'm a father. I'm a husband. And what is going to do the best for helping
take care of my family and yet educate the world? If I do an interview with a prestigious academic
and it gets 20,000 views in two months, let's just say, or a month, and I'm lucky to get that kind
of interview on certain content. It's highly educational. I get 20,000 views. And then I can
do a very well edited documentary video that gets 800,000 in 11 days. There's no debate over which
one is the better option to try and do. The documentary is far, far harder to edit and to
produce and to put together. But it also is, for me, even more of a teaching lesson than just
doing an interview. Because in an interview, I could do those and kind of fly by and sometimes
miss things that are being said. When you edit something, you can't not know what you're putting
together. You have to learn what you're editing. And that's why I think it's even a better,
it's a better learning path for me as an editor, as a content creator, producing the
documentaries than it is just reading the books of scholars and interviewing them. I really,
really dive into the material deeper with the edits that I do with that. So I'm going to do both.
I'm not giving up. I plan on doing several more interviews with scholars. It's just I want to
steer toward the documentary thing, because I think that is the future of educating. People
have like ancient alien documentaries getting millions of views and their content is just
conspiracy, absolute lacking of the like, if there's a question we don't have the answer to,
like exactly how did we build the pyramids? Exactly how? Well, we don't know exactly how,
therefore aliens or therefore giants or therefore this instead of recognizing they did talk about
the blocks being moved by human beings at this time in history. You don't believe me,
Karakuni, the Egyptologist knows the sources. We have the actual places they got the stones from.
We know how they were doing some of this stuff. We don't know exactly how they built it though.
Oh, we got you. Therefore aliens, things like that. I want to give you the facts
based on the material evidence and I don't want to make leaps of like weird things like that.
That's my goal. I don't know. One more on Roberts. Seriously love you. Thank you so much for the
support. Appreciate the super chat. I didn't see I'd have to go back and see if there's any
anything under that. Oh, hold on. There's more and there's more. Hold up. Hold up.
Okay, on. Did you have a comment under that? I want to make sure I didn't miss it.
No, just showing love. Thank you so much for that. And I got one more super chat here.
Hang five. She PS. Were you ever able to track down that Josephus about running away
if they faced veteran Romans? But if they were conscripts, we can try to fight.
I never ran that down. I don't remember if I wrote that to Steve Mason to get his thoughts or not.
Is this what is it? I remember you mentioned in this
so at some point in the past, I'd have to ask Steve Mason, were you able to track down that
Josephus about running away if they faced veteran veterans Romans? But if they were conscripts, we
could try to fight. You know, when the Jews in the last day in the massage, I think it was.
It's like, I think it's that part that hang for talking about.
Were we ever able to track down that Josephus about running away if they faced veteran Romans?
But if they were conscripts, we can try to fight. I'm not sure.
Yeah, I don't remember. I thought I wrote this to
Steve Mason, Josephus expert, but I can't remember. I appreciate the super chat. Hang
five. I'm so sorry. I don't remember. My brain is wracked with all this stuff.
We're going to Israel. We're doing a tour to Qumran and we're going to Qumran for two nights.
We'll be in Jerusalem for three nights after that. Then we'll be in Galilee
for three nights. We're going on a nine day tour. It's eight nights, nine days.
Kip Davis is going to be there. Jennifer Bird is going to be there. And we may even have some
of the experts from Albright Institute join us. I'd love it if we could get Finkelstein to meet us
at Armageddon. What's it? Megiddo. That would be cool. That would be...
Yeah, Kip's a trip. If you sign up now, Derek will cover your bar tab and my bar tab.
No, but you can have plenty. It's actually quite an enjoyable place to go and see the history there
and stuff. It was a blast. Anything about that trip? That's what I was just talking about.
We both paid last time and this time. I'd probably go if it was double the price. That's how
worth it is. The plan that we have now... Think about it like this. You're paying to go to a trip
that's a trip of a lifetime. You're seeing the ancient world where so many historical events
happen and you have expert guides taking us around, showing us places, giving us context
that we might not understand if we're just walking by ourselves. However, the feeling of not having
to worry about like, oh, I got to find a map so I can figure out how to get... You go on vacation
with your family. You need a map or you need to find out where to go to eat. You need to figure
out this. What hotel am I going to go to? How are we going to get here? Are we going to get gas?
Are we going to get food? Are we going to get some water? All that's taken care of. You just sit back
and relax and chill and be catered to. That's the best part about it. It's like you literally
have no worries. You have people taking care of all of your needs. I felt like... That's what I
loved about it. I felt that way about the first time, even though we did a lot of walking. Yeah.
We are going to be focusing, I think, on more areas more often, the places we do go to and not
be like running to the next place too fast. We're going to all sorts of places, in fact,
where they found where Pontius Pilate's judgment throne seat was right outside the temple walls.
We know where that's at. What that means is if what is accounted for in the gospels that Jesus
actually was in this spot being judged by Pontius Pilate, you're going to be right there.
We're going up to the Temple Mount right there where the Dome of the Rock is. We'll be going
down, seeing the Well and Wall the same day. We're doing a night tour in what we call the Hinnom.
I found the Hallelujah thing. You found it? Yeah, I do.
Dude, he's wrapping up. I was so like... When I say something, I can't just... I have to back it up.
Wes said, get off the phone. Yeah. So, Wes, forgive him. I'm going to say this to you.
He said something. I know. I had to find it. I had you. I know. I'm sorry.
And he found a source in a Greek source where Hallelujah was the thing.
This is a screenshot because someone else actually asked me a while back.
He said, if you sign up now, Neil will hold your spot in line through the airport security
at Ben-Gurion. You really should check it out. Sign up. It's going to be once in a lifetime
historical tour. Did you send it to me? Yeah, I sent you the screenshot of the part where it says
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
Hallelujah. Yes. Let me see if I can get it better. How old is that, by the way? That's horse.
That's from 300. It's from the same time period. 270, 300 BCE. Right there around the time.
Yeah. Isn't that crazy? Yeah. All right. Is it right here? Okay. I see it. Yeah. Wow. That's
interesting. So, that's the end of the Hymn to Artemis. And it says... Athena is coming. No,
no, no. I'm sorry. I gave you guys the wrong source. It's Hymn number four. It's called the Bath
of Pallas, which is Athena. Okay. At the end of the Bath of Pallas, it says right here,
Hallelujah Goddess. Preserve Argos. Hallelujah Goddess. When you drive out, Hallelujah Goddess.
You can go look it up. So, it's on Theo.com, that website you use. Yeah. It's Hymn number four,
Bath of Pallas. Okay. You can find it yourself, but I'm just showing you it's there. Ancient,
ancient, ancient, ancient. Yeah. Yeah. Ancient, ancient, ancient. But what that makes you wonder,
what does Aululu really mean? Is it really a mean praise of the yaw?
Or is it something? That's something you got on that. Is it a Ba'ki chant? Because the Ba'ki
chants, there was a lot of yaw. Right. Yaw, yaw, that's a Ba'ki chant. Right, right. Sabah,
Sabah, yaw, those are all Ba'ki chants. This gets into that whole like, we got to divide
between Jewish idea and Greek idea. And it's like, I don't know how much dividing there really is.
You get what I mean? Like, I'm certain that there is some differences. We see how certain
Jews kept certain walls in this time for Maccabees onward. But to pretend that they're like this
complete distinct culture, the more and more I'm swayed and being persuaded, and I'm always
persuasable, that's a word, but being persuaded in this kind of Hellenistic route. And one might go,
that's your bias kicking in. But man, I'm finding the School of Copenhagen to actually
really grab my attention. Oh, and this lady battling points out in Sappho, this woman Sappho.
Right here. Lesbos. Is this the word? She uses the word Alalutso as a chant.
And that could be the origin of all that. Like, she's using it in the same way as a chant,
as like a, as like a praising chant, praising Alalutso. And Sappho is one of the greatest of
all time. Wow. And that's where, you know, that's where you get the word lesbian from? No. Because,
okay, Sappho was attracted to women. She was a woman. She's like a bard. She plays a poet.
She had attracted women. She's from that place, she's from the island called Lesbos. So later on,
when other women would be attracted to other women, they would call them lesbians because of her.
Yeah. It's one of those weird things. It's one of those weird like facts that I don't know why I know.
Anyway, sign up for Israel, the tour. We're going to have a heck of a nine-day tour. Scholars are
going to be there. Matthew Munger may be there, may not be there. We're not sure about that.
It just depends. It'll be cool, but I don't want to put everything dependent on that. We are going
to have Dr. Kip Davis, Dr. Kil in the cheesy. He's in the chat right now. Harass him. Harass him.
You want to meet Dr. Kil? He will be there. And so will Dr. Jennifer Bird. We're going to have
awesome scholars joining us also that are from over there, meeting us on the sites and helping
us educate us from Qumran to Jerusalem to Galilee. Can't wait to meet Jennifer Bird, too.
Yeah. The image is, you're not kidding. You're not kidding. What's Kip talking about over here?
The Hebrew cafe? I don't know. That's a derrick question. What's the link? I got it pinned at the
top. Hold on. Let me make sure it's... So it's up at the top book now for our... Let me just drag.
Let me copy and paste this thing. Oh, shoot. Copy and pasting the link in case everybody
is interested. I think... How much was it down again just to get in the door to reserve your
position? Isn't it 300 before December? Something like... I think it's a thousand before December
31st, though. That's a long time away. Right. And we're going next October. All the information is
in here. We do need to tweak a little bit of details adding Jennifer Bird to that.
I'm pretty sure it's a thousand dollars down by December, by the end of the year.
Then you have three more months to give another thousand. You're halfway paid already.
Right. And then you just have small payments after that.
So you can make payments. Here it is. You'll really kick yourself.
I hope that we can have... Look, everybody's been talking about for a long time.
MythFishing needs to have a conference. MythFishing needs to do this. This is going to be beyond
a conference. This is going to be conference on wheels because Kip's giving lectures here and
there. I imagine... Kip, we'll talk about when, but it might be best to do it once we get to Jerusalem
after you've already blown everyone's mind from Masada to Qumran. We go in the caves.
We go to the Israel Museum. And then that night or the next night, depending on how we all fill,
we do the conference and have you do like a 30, 45 minute lecture, whatever you feel comfortable
doing, kind of this helping us recap. It'll be recorded. We're going to have all this information
to be able to do that. The first trip we did with James, we didn't really come prepared.
And a lot of the footage we have that we never made public is a little crappy. Not all of it,
but like my lens was not a good one for the brightness outside.
No, I got my $5,000 can't do it. I'm bringing something that no one's... I haven't even used
it yet. Oh, Dennis McDonald's going with us too. I forgot to mention that he's giving a lecture
in Galilee. So is Jennifer Verge. She told me the other day on the phone. So you're going to have...
We're going to have content for everybody. And last time it was just us content, which is like
cool and fun. But like, yeah, you see guys here, now you get to get content from scholars
in Israel. And we're going to film and be a part of it. Well, I am putting some exclusive content
that we got in Qumran with James Tabor on his upcoming Dead Sea. Yeah, that's still coming.
That's still coming. Yeah. So we did get content. It's just overall,
it was very difficult. We were on the go. It was a learning experience. Yeah. We learned
what not to do next time. So we hope you can join us. Seriously. I should... You know what,
let me just ask, why not do a poll? I haven't done a poll in a long time. Start a poll.
Are you coming on the tour with us? Yes. No. I'm just going to put an ad like maybe.
What do you think? Yeah, there you go. Let's see what everybody votes.
268 people are so watching right now. Okay, you can see my screen. Now, let's see what you vote.
We got the votes in. Let's get it. And subscribe to us to conform it. He's almost at 100,000 subs.
Oh, by the way, this thing right here, I gotta be careful with this one. Gotta be careful with
my baby, bro. Derrick got this, how long ago? A month ago, a month and a half. That's it? Yeah,
it's pretty soon. So I'm right behind you then, because if I get 9,000 more subs, I'm gonna get this
too, which would be pretty cool. You're right there. Help him get his plaque. It's just a plaque.
Help him get the plaque. If he doesn't get it, he won't grow wings when he dies. You know, we gotta
have him grow wings. We gotta immortalize Neil here, everybody. If you help by subscribing,
you grow wings too. We forgot to mention that, you know what I'm saying? Right. I'm waiting to see
everybody vote. Get your votes in now. 41 votes out of 269 people. Will you be there? I hope people
will, because there's gonna be so much information. And we're early. We got till next October.
That was delayed. It's over a year. You put the stream over the camera, and now it's delayed,
and now it's like, okay, there, now I can see it. I was like, wait, I'm behind them. It's over a year.
It's over a year. Anybody can go just playing it out. It's gonna be October the 27th.
That's what I'm saying. That's why right now is a good time. If you're thinking about it,
think about it. Don't put it aside, because you don't want to be scrounging up big chunks of money
at the end. You want to be ahead of the game. Get that big payment in. Get that $1,000 down,
and then you have four or five more months to get another. And then after that, you just have little
tiny payments to get you all the way to the end. And then you have five-star hotels waiting for you
in Israel. Well, here's the reason we did that. We went, and we didn't have, we had good hotels,
and then somewhere, obviously, the bad stay was at the end. And I'm not trying to crap on it,
because it was all a good experience at the end of the day. But we knew when we went back, every
one of the nights we slept was gonna be in a better place, like the best kind of place we could get.
We want you to walk away and go, that was like a vacation and an educational experience, not just
a walk-in, I'm sweating, I'm miserable. You never have to worry. You never have to get lost.
Everything's put in front of you. You're just following the pack and having a blast. I can't
stress that enough, because it can get stressful being in another country, and you're trying to
figure out your way around. And I'm gonna keep saying this, because I think this is really good.
You have everything laid out for you. Five-star hotels, buffet dinners, beautiful breakfasts,
scholars meeting us, getting friends with new people, and I'm still in contact with people
who I was in Israel with last year, who I talked to on Facebook. You meet people,
be friends with them. It's just so worth it. I love going down in like, I can't stress that enough.
If you've never done it, I told my mom, now my mom, she's an evangelical Christian, okay, bottom line.
But I told mom, I said, look, mom, they want me to leave the tour. I'm gonna be in Israel,
me and Neil are both leading it, but I'm telling my mom this. And I said, I don't care if you believe
and I don't, you can't let go of the experience of coming and checking this out. It's gonna be a
blast, and you're gonna learn so much. She's always wanted to go and see these places that the stories
are surrounded, whether they happened or not, isn't the point. The narrative says, these are the
stories surrounding the narrative, and it's really interesting. You get to go, we're gonna
walk in the caves, and you can only picture, here are these Jewish people, living this like,
desert dwelling experience, a holy experience, out in the wilderness, and they're in these caves.
You feel the presence. You're in there going, this dude, these guys. It'll be Ken this time.
Before it was Tabor, but like, Kim's gonna be like, this is where they got together,
and they had their sectarian scroll, and they're like, you had to follow this purity laws, and
like, you might've got off, like, you're gonna feel the experience of like, what it was like to live
there in that community, the back this year. Oh, that's where the back was, where you got purified.
Oh, here's where everybody ate their communal meals. Oh, there's the cave number seven,
that's where they found the scrolls, where you can go inside there. Like, all that stuff is that,
it's just, and like, then you see an Ibex run by, like, how's that thing alive in this desert?
Ibex with these giant ores running around in this desert. Like, it's cool, dude. It's fun.
That's flying around. It's fun. Thank you for subscribing to Neil.
Thank you. Absolutely. Derek's mom is... What else can we talk about that was fun about this?
That was like, Pan. Oh my gosh, the temple of Pan. There's a place called Benias. Portal to the
underworld. It's a portal to the underworld, that's what it's called, and it's where Pan, the god,
you know, the goat, the devil, that's where he dwelt, and this was put there according to the
sign that they had put up there. Someone put up a sign there, and it was like, this site was put
here when Alexander the Great's army came through Judea. Like, they set up a grotto for Pan. I'm
like, whoa, this is heavy. This is heavy, dude. And then there's a hole in the ground with water.
It's not a normal... It goes all the way underground that you can't see. It's so far down that you can't
see it. So they thought that it was a hole to the 80s. But then there's these inscriptions,
and then there's Herod built a palace for Augustus. And then from here to hit that wall,
like, that's how close it was. There's a temple dedicated by King Herod to Augustus and Augusta,
his wife. And when he went inside there, they had the statue of Augustus, and they had a statue of
Augusta holding the cornucopa, the horn of Plenty. And they're like Roman gods. We're in
Israel. Did we just transport to Greece or Rome? What's going on here? It's wild. And then James
Tabor told us some crazy stuff. He said, you see that mount? You see up top? We're on the bottom.
There's a mountain there. Yeah, there's a huge wall. It's a rock mountain. He says,
that is one of the more likely locations, probably the most likely location,
with a transfiguration scene. I thought it was down the way, though. There was a wheel.
No, he said it was up top, on top of it. Why don't I remember that? Heaven above, hell below.
So he said below is where pan the devil would are. Above it is where Jesus, Moses, and Elijah
were sitting and showing the transfiguration. And we're going to go to that place.
Oh yeah, we're going there. And the interesting thing about that place is that's where the Gospel
Mark situates Jesus asking the question, who do men say that I am? And if you're standing on this
block of all these gods, and the world, the portal to the underworld, and you know that's
called Panpania. Before Jesus, Pan was already rocking that spot. And here's this new guinea
god who rocks the scene. Whether it's historical or not, it doesn't matter. We're just talking
about what the text says. The text says this. That's all we're doing. We're just dealing with.
We're just taking the text out of Facebook. What did it do to you? I mean, there's probably no
words in one word, but in a few sentences, being there on the spot, being on the lake,
we literally get on a boat. We're on the lake of Galilee at the sunset. We're seeing this. We're
having... That was one of the best times of the whole trip was being on... We're going to get on a
boat. We're going to be like Peter and John. We're going to be on a float. Float on this lake in the
Galilee. And then you're going to realize something. You're going to realize, wait a minute, this little
ass lake can't have a storm. Not only that, the little boat that you see, the first boat that
we're going to check out. Yeah, like the waters, the lake is so... It's not that small, but it's not
like... There's no giant storms happening here. It's like a little pond. There's no way there's a
giant storm here. So it's funny. But it's cool. It's really fun. It's funny. The guy that we had,
who was... We're not going to have the same boat guy, by the way. But the guy we had, he was doing
everything to try and defend. He was trying to make it seem like... He was an apologist.
Because he was a Christian. And he goes, hey, I've seen it. I've seen an eight-foot...
I've seen an eight-foot... What do you call it? What do you call that? Splash.
That was splash. A wave. A wave. Yeah. He said, I saw it, but I don't realize it was about eight
feet tall. We're like, yeah, okay. You saw an eight-foot wave here where there's no current at
all. It's literally like quiet. Just quiet. Like it's flat. I'm glad that when we... Before we get on
the boat, we go through the actual center that has the actual boat. The first century, it looks
like a canoe. They show... There's no way 12 people... They dug it up. They dug it up. There's people
that are crying, looking at it. Because they thought it was Jesus. Like they told... Like,
people were convinced that has to be the boat that Jesus was in. Because it's first century.
Who else would be in it? Like... Yeah. Yeah. Is it possible? It's possible. Anything's possible.
But like, really, just because it's a boat from the first century means that it has to be the boat
that Jesus was in. Like, first century... First of all, a century is a long time. He didn't live
from one to 100. He lived from one to 33, if this is true, right? We're just assuming that the...
Let's just assume the text is true. So, you're not even half of the century. You still have
two-thirds of the century that this boat could have been in existence.
Just gonna assume it's his boat. Remember, we saw people crying over it? Yes. There's a lot of
that. Look at the boat crying. I'm like, oh my god. Yeah. And it's like, this is probably the typical
boat that they had. But it would have been the same boat. Yeah. Same type of boat. Yeah.
There's a bunch of stuff going on here. A lot of fighting. Well, one person thinks Dead Sea
Scrolls are fake and like... What do you mean by fake? Yeah, that sounds like a conspiracy that
all Dead Sea Scrolls are fakers. Wait, that's what I'm saying. Like, you mean fake? Like, somebody
wrote them in the 1900s and then placed them there and then they looked at them and the scientists...
They faked out the scientists. Everybody's fake. And no one can tell that these things are...
You gotta bring more evidence than just your own feels on that one. That's your feels telling me.
Because the evidence suggests that they're real. These are real. By the way, there's some Greek texts
in there too. The Greek looks like first century Greek text. So, like, why would they... You're
telling me that somebody was that good? They can fake Greek, Hebrew, Aramaic, and I think there's
Latin stuff in there too. Like, there's our Latin text in there. I think there's one or two. Maybe
it has a different location. My tip would know. Anyways, you're telling me somebody who knew how
to fake all that and put them in different areas and then wait until someone found it
just... How do you know if someone's even gonna find it? We're actually going to the places that
the first Bedouin took it and sold it. We're going to all that when we go. No Latin, okay.
So, no Latin. Yeah, I don't know. He's taking us to the places they were first sold, the whole
line. We're going to the actual caves. Most tours don't go into those caves. We're walking into some
of those caves. So, we're going down the street and going into some of them that aren't guarded,
if that makes sense. And we won't have anyone saying, hey, you can't do that. You know, we're
going to look actually in these places. Yeah. So, yeah, this is something I actually asked
Kip in the past. We covered the... Then there's the one you and I are going to lead.
You're talking about that one cave? So, Kip and... Are you talking about Gehenna down in the valley?
Yeah, let me... So, Kip and... What's her name? And what's her name? Oh, come on. I just drew up
blank. Who? Who we're going with. You're talking about Ross, Nichols. No, no. What's your name that
we're going with? Jennifer Bird. Kip and Jennifer Bird are going to have to sit back and take a break
because me and Derek, we know Gehenna. We're taking a haunted tour. We're going to take a haunted tour
through Gehenna because we've been there already. We want... I remember the whole place like it was
yesterday. And so, we're going to walk... Me and Derek are going to try this, even though we're not
like experts. We're just going to just perform both. Like, what? It's just Gehenna. I don't know
why I've blanked out on Gehenna's name. Dude, my brain's shut. I said her name five minutes ago. I
just... I do that. I'm just a... You know, I had to... John says, y'all are sounding like apologists for
big kumran right now. What kumran? What is that? I don't understand. Do I believe in... Do I believe
kumran existed? No, I think... They're just saying that we're like... No, we're trying to get people to
understand this is actually an amazing tour. So, that's the thing. This is what I've noticed about
skeptics versus believers. It's like some people are so far on one side. They just hate it. They'll
just accept anything that makes a believer look bad. Instead of like, let's go to the data. Let's
see what the truth is. Maybe there's some things they're right about. Maybe not. But it's like
everybody's trying so hard just to be right. It's like you shouldn't be happy about these
archaeological sites and geographical locations that I was talking about as a non-believer.
You're not allowed to go there. You're not allowed to be excited about maybe... What if we found...
What if we found the tomb Jesus actually died in? I mean, we could still explain. I'm just saying,
we could still explain and say his body was stolen. He was relocated. There's several hypotheses.
This is a perfect skeleton still sitting in there. What if you don't imagine...
And then it says Jesus of Nazareth. It says his name.
That would raise right flags. My point is, imagine we went, there's no body, but we actually figured
out like this is the most plausible place. Would it be bad if you and me to be excited about that?
Would that be wrong? No. I don't think so. You know what else I don't understand? Okay.
This is more... You see this with mythosis a lot. Sorry. If you're a mythosis that's not like this,
it doesn't apply to you. Just let it fly. I'm not talking about you then. Only certain people are like
this. So, a scholar is in a video by me or Derek or someone else, and they make a statement
criticizing the mythicism. The very next day, it's like a press meeting. Something they have to
get online and they have to refute it. Oh, we get the one guy. Oh, what he said yesterday is a lie.
Let me show you why it's a lie. No, no, no. Remember the one guy that writes in all caps?
All caps. You're getting paid by the... You are part of the elitist... Yes.
Compromised by the elites. And the paying you to be a historicist.
Anyways, okay. So, I've noticed this is a... It's happening way more than you think. Like just
needing Derek to know. You see the comments. You get a lot of comments. Okay. But it's weird how
when somebody says something, all of a sudden, they have to defend it. Now, think about this.
And any other topic, right? For example, the topic of Mark first Matthew. So, James Tabor
thinks Mark was first. Mark Goodacre thinks Matthew was first. I thought Mark Goodacre... No,
who's a Mark and probably. But... Okay, let's just say... Let's just for the sake of argument.
Okay, for the sake of argument. Let's just say Mark Goodacre thinks Matthew was first.
I know. And Tabor thinks Mark was first. Who knows if that's true or not? Okay.
Do you have ever seen somebody go online the next day and call the other person a liar and they're
raw? Does anybody get fired up about that? Why is it only mysticism that gets people
completely crazy out of their minds? Like, this is just an opinion. These are people analyzing the
data saying what they believe about it. And that's it. You can think of any topic you want.
I don't know. Let's say Moses. What do you think about Moses? I think Moses was an Egyptian.
Oh, yeah. What do you think about the Hixos? He might have been this. He might have been that.
You don't see people going online the next day. Unless they're apologists who hate that you're
saying that Exodus didn't happen or whatever. But that's what I'm saying. The only people who
were getting their panties in a bunch. Yeah. But they don't have... It's not like they're going on
having to get in damage control mode. Some catastrophic event just happened. They act like
the world just ended because some scholar said something. It's like, just let it go. Who cares?
Yeah, it's not that big of a deal. It's not that big of a deal. Not to me. Yeah. I actually enjoy...
I love looking at different hypotheses of mysticism. Yeah. It's like, you're allowed to be a
mythicist and have that opinion. No one's going to bother you. But if someone else is a different
one than you, the fact that you have the need to go crazy and get on... They're a liar! You're a liar!
It's like, you know what I see. We went from... We're excited about having these
circular little sites to the reaction. I don't know how I got into that. But the point that I'm
making is some of this stuff is just... We're just people with ideas. Yeah. And that's all it is.
You don't have to get mad about it. That's all. I get it. I get it. And I hope that more people do.
But it seems like... It seems like this is tribalistic. It's very indebted. And I'm looking
at this academic... You have to defend the faith. Bro, if Jesus didn't exist, guess what? That'd be
awesome to find out. It'd be great! They'd be like, whoa, holy crap. Can you imagine? Your guy never
exists. Now the guy... It'd be great if you could prove it. I tend to agree that the guy portrayed
in the text of the New Testament didn't exist. And the one that's being talked about by Paul.
He's celestial post... That's what's so amazing. That's what's so amazing to me. It's how close
we are of skeptic who thinks he existed. And a guy who doesn't. To a myth that this is.
They're only off on like a square... A hair. One of them thinks that he started off mythologized.
The other one thinks he was mythologized. Right. It's like we're not that far away. Who cares?
What's the big deal? It just gets so... And this is why you've never heard me. I have an opinion on
this. And I have a lot I could say about it. But I purposely avoided it because there's so much
contention when you talk about this topic from a critical standpoint. And I wouldn't even do
a derogatory. But look what happened with Kip. Kip's not even derogatory, even though he disagrees
with Richard. He is being critical. But look at what's already happening in the community because
he's actually being critical of it. I'm like, I have no interest in involving myself
in something that is so tribalistic warlike. I mean, you're about to divide factions and create
enemies. But you see the damage control begin. We gotta figure out a way to make sure nobody
believes what he just said. It's like you can see that. It's like, don't you see how you guys look?
Okay, I know. Yeah, if you were derogatory Kip, I don't remember it, but I thought it was
polite. He did make a big guess. That's part of it. That's what comes with it. Yeah. Like,
I made a lot more. I just a lot more harsh in my video. He made me look harsh. So I looked at Kip
like maybe next time I'm going to be more like, I thought Kip was great. Well, I just made a lot
I wish that neither side really got this way. I really wish it was just an educational pursuit.
That's it. You know what would have been? Oh, Kip, that's what you think about my
reading of the title. I'll take that into consideration. I didn't really look at it that
way. But I passed peer review. So too bad. Well, you could say that. And then you couldn't look
like a boss. But it's, I don't know. I'm getting too much. You have your own person. Yeah. Well,
look, we hope that people can go. We understand $4,200. And then covering your flight can be
pricey. Not everyone is even going to be able to do something like that. But you go look up prices
for a cruise, you know, on the minute or on the big in the Bahamas, go look, you're going to pay
good money to go on these and all the hotels are top notch. We're going to be everything's covered.
The only thing you'll have to cover really is your flight and food for lunch because we'll be
stopping at restaurants along the way. And if you're trying to drink at night and stuff like that,
you know, you can do all that and enjoy the talks. But go check out the site. If you're
interested in joining us, we've got scholars that are going with us. It's like, this is historical.
And we've been talking about for years doing a conference. Instead, I was like, let's go.
And the night and when we're done doing our thing and walking around looking at these sites,
and we come back and mellow out and have a good time, get a glass of wine, maybe you don't drink,
maybe you just drink and run forward. But we're all going to enjoy ourselves and have fun.
Like it's not just like, we're having a good, this is a fun trip. Yeah.
Good question, Jesse says, would it be a Christian safe trip? I'm inviting my mom,
my sister, and both of them are evangelicals. And I told them, you know, we're going to be giving you
historical insight. We're not here to give you, we're not here to like rip your faith apart.
We're here to give you the date and let you decide. No one's telling you what to think at all.
And by the way, I already have two people coming. They're married, a couple, Catholics,
and they're devout. And they're coming. And they're coming because they know that I'm like...
That's not my intention to destroy everyone's faith at the end of the day. No. So we want historical.
We want the best evidence you have, not a faith-based answer. If you have a faith conclusion,
that's yours. That's yours. Yeah. Even though I don't draw that conclusion, it's like, I have no...
Dude, a lot of the scholar interviews have positions like that. Even if I don't draw it,
I'm not going to sit here and go out on my way for that. If the conversation came up,
they had a drink in hand and they wanted to go, why? And I'd go, well, okay, let's go.
Yeah, I'll tell you why. Yeah. But I'm going to know. And you see this,
you see a lot of punching down on people that believe. Yeah, it's like...
I think more empathy is better. And I'm going through something right now in my family where
there's people in my family who need a belief system. Hopefully they're not. I don't think
they're watching. But these people need to believe that he's gone somewhere in a better place
to make this smooth. There is a function in society for... Now, I'm not just going to say
theism, but just believing in something greater that we don't know. I had my best friend...
It doesn't have to be Christianity or Islam or just something that we don't understand.
That has its purpose in society. I'm sorry. Your brother just died. Okay. My best friend,
he passed away. I've had two best friends died from drug addiction. I mean,
it's crazy that two of my best friends died from this. And the second one who died, his sister
called me. She was trying to get me to talk to him and work with him. He died. Brain dead,
oxygen, black to the brain. They called the cops. 45 minutes later, they were late. It was over.
He had no oxygen. He died. She called me. And this is Derek, myth vision Derek. I've developed
my critical thinking skills to where I'm at today. And she's like, God, keep him around.
She's broke. And she's saying he's in heaven now. And that's all I can think of. And all I can think
of is that you're too good for this world. And you know what I told her? You bet your ass
he's too good for this world. And you bet she is. You did the right thing. You got it. What are
you going to say? That's not real. Like, who are you to do that? And like, so that's what I'm saying.
Like there are people who have people who believe in something. I get it. I'm not against you.
I don't have a fight against you. I'm not here to, I'm just, my channel is to show you the sources,
give my opinion and let you decide for yourself. Yeah, I think any historical evidence, what is
the truth, right? Everybody talks about truth. We want to know what the truth is. We want to
know what the facts relay. What does the evidence say? And that's literally it. And if you walk away
with a strengthened faith, or you walk away with more critical thinking about the thing you came
from, cool, at least we got your thinking. That's really the whole goal is trying to be up to date
on what this stuff is. Nothing, we can't even explain to you the experience though. There is
an experience that comes with it. I love it. You're reading, aren't you? I'll just look so
like I went to funny. Yeah, no, but you're right. And this is what, it's one of those things that
really have to leave it to the individual to determine and not put and not try to,
and it's no doubt about it that there are really harmful things that come from religion.
Oh, yeah. No doubt about it. And I am with you, and I'm with the people that are
making content to oppose that stuff. I don't have a problem with that. That's not punching down.
That's bringing justice. What I mean by punching down is like finding some random guy online who
made a video and that's cringy, and you're going to make fun of him. Look at this guy.
That's punching down. But if we get like a clip from William Lane Craig's spewing some nonsense
and make a rebuttal to that, that's not punching down. You're just making content. This guy is
educating people. That's good content. Let's be honest. But you know the difference, right?
This is just definitely a difference. He's a telemarketer for Jesus. There's a difference
between how I made that clear. There's definitely a big difference between punching down on believers
and fighting back against misinformation. Huge difference. Right. Yeah. I absolutely agree.
Just call me Tex YouTube. We need this. We need theism because death is a major human trauma.
As a Hebrew, it is a way to comfort folks, though I don't believe in heaven or hell. It's okay. I
respect that. Hey, I mean, like I said this, dude, let me be raw here. This is some real. I love this
super chat, by the way, because my brother, I told you, your brother just died in this whole thing
sparked a dream I had two, three years ago when my brother was dying in addiction. And then he was
like, bro, I didn't know how much longer he had. I didn't know if tomorrow I was going to wake up,
have that phone call, have to go bury him. And I had a dream and he was like, he was in this box
and he was wheezing like, and he couldn't talk. I had to, I have to emphasize and give you enough
detail. I'm looking at him. He's like dried up, like shriveled up like a skeleton. Like you described
your brother and he couldn't talk. And I just, in my dream, I was crying in my dream because I woke
up with tears and I was just like, I'll see you in the next life, bro. And then I woke up and I was
crying and I called him immediately. He was like, I'm on my way to Washington state. I'm going to be
withdrawn in a few days because I have just enough to get me there. Dude, it was almost like a sign
to me, right? Like I'm like, I'm a human on earth trying to make sense. I don't want my brother to
die because he is the closest man in my life. And my brother and me, we ride or die our whole life.
The last thing I want to do is ever have to bury my brother. I want to spend more time with him. I
love him. You only get this once as far as I know. And I just said what came natural in my dream.
I'll see you in the next life. I have no way of knowing there's a next life. It was me even helping
myself for a moment, irrational, trying to say, I don't want this to end. And I'm just hoping
there's more. That's it. That's it. Sometimes that, that's what, that's all that's needed is just,
because I mean, like, you know, there's the, the Socratic method of just withholding any
judge, like, like not being dogmatic about any way or the other. You don't know. Like you're,
you're withholding any judgment on what you're, what you think about either way,
even if one side looks like it might be a lot more plausible. You still got to leave
reserve for maybe there is something that that little sliver could help a little bit for something.
I mean, I'm pretty skeptical. But when it comes to my love and my family, I can get real irrational
real quick. Yeah. And it's natural is my point. So I love y'all. Thank you for subscribing to
Gnostic Informant to share that one more time. For those who did not, please subscribe to my
buddy. Let's get him. Let's get him to 100,000. 90 1.5. Let's get 10,000 subscribers in five
minutes. You got from 91.5 to 90.6. So that's like, what is that? That means 100? No, that's 100.
You broke the next. Whoa, dude. Damn. Yeah. That's crazy. Everyone who watched this. I'd love to see
everybody. It could have been 50 for all we know because it could have went from, yeah. Yeah, it
could have. We don't know, but I'm trying to go. But it went up a little bit. Let's just say 100.
We hope you'll join the tour. We have till October the 27th of next year we're going.
You have up till three months before we go on the tour. I thought it was before that. It's that.
It's over a year. So that's two days after my birthday. Yep. So you're going to be there
celebrating the birthday with Neil. Last year was celebrating my 33rd birthday later. Yep.
And it's perfect time of the year. The weather. Remember the baptism we did? Oh my gosh. We did
a Gnostic Informant and Mythfishing baptism. We didn't baptize each other and then we found out.
I listen to this. This is the weirdest thing. When I stepped into the water, it was super.
Oh, first of all, the fish. The fish are nibbling. It feels good though. It's weird. They didn't
hurt, but it was super. They used to go in and let the fish nibble balls or something. I don't
know. I heard something like that. But it was super sunny when we got there. Really hot day.
We get in the water and all of a sudden I remember thinking to myself, did it just get like dark?
Seriously. And then I just forgot. And like. Oh, we had. We go on with our day. We get back on the
bus. All of a sudden, someone in our bus goes, Hey, a lunar or was it a solar eclipse just happened.
And we're like, what time? And then he named the time. And I was like, we were in the water.
We were in the water that time. And then I remember the dark happening. I was like, dude,
yo, Derek baptized me during an eclipse. Right. Does that mean I'm like an Antichrist or something?
He might be the chosen second coming. Antichrist. He's the second coming.
Yeah. No, but we baptized in the Jordan that was funny alone, getting the garments. No,
because that's the opposite of what Jesus, when Jesus did that, I thought his light came out.
Right, right, right. When I got dark, I got dark. I'm the Antichrist.
But it was really strange that that happened at that time. It didn't.
And it was when you were, it was when I was getting done. For those who didn't watch that,
we might as well see that, right? Is it a myth vision baptism? I think it is. I don't.
Yeah. There it is. Baptized in the Jordan River.
I'd have to, let's do this real quick. There's the beautiful myth vision queen.
Let me share my screen and let you guys hear this. This was so much fun. This was while
we were over there and it was a blast. It looks like we have to run a road.
Maybe some underwear. Maybe some underwear.
All right. On a serious note, I'm about to baptize Neil and my queen, Mrs. Myth Vision,
giving her an empowerment of what we're doing here. Go ahead. Go ahead. Tell them.
Notice how we're wearing sunglasses. It's very sun. It's a sunny day. Okay. All right.
We got to baptize in the name of myth vision here.
Neil. Here's the deal, man. Once, once you're done with this, I hope you understand.
There we go. There we go.
All right. Let me tell you how it's going to go.
Is that fish nibbling on my foot?
Dude, the fish nibble on your heels.
I swear, brother, they're like going for the little
honey. It's tickling right now. Now, now imagine that that emperor got in the river.
I heard reading about it somewhere where he had the fish nibbling on his gonads.
Hey, let's go right here. Cause this actually, well, you want to, do you need it?
Do you need to be in the shot here? Or like you want to face like this?
The fish, just fish, trust me. Okay. The fish and fishers have met. Here we are today, Neil.
You're 33 years of age. You're supposed to be crucified in just a couple more months.
And you're here to tame two noses. I hear you're on a path. You're on a journey.
It is today, young man. You give your life over to absolute noses. They're nibbling
of my toes. They sense the radiance here. That's what's going on. Fishers of men.
We are in the Jordan River right now and my son, welcome to the cult of MythVision.
Are you ready to be baptized? Are you willing to turn your life over? We are MythVision.
I'm grabbing your head and dunking you. Okay. We are MythVision.
Yes. He saves. Yes, honey. You can tell that it's gotten darker. The outside right here,
there's a, it's not a complete solar eclipse. It's a partial solar eclipse happening right now.
Come in and listen. It's going to be different. You have never
felt little fishies. Dude, tell her. You want to like be here while I do. It's every little portion
of my... Okay. Notice how the light, okay. Go. If I go back to the beginning, you can see how
bright it is right now. See how bright it is right here reflecting off of me? Go back to
when I'm in there, right? Right there. Yeah. The light is on my, and I'll go back to the end.
Nope. Not there. It was right somewhere around. Keep going. Right. Go back.
I think, yeah, I don't know. I can't tell. It's hard to tell. It dimmed, bro. We already know. It's
hard to tell. We got the queen over here. No, come on. Babe, come here. I think it's you. My wife's
the antichrist. It's you that, yeah. Oh my gosh. Because I think it looks dark right now.
There's so many fish. All right. Come on, baby. Come on in here. You're not. You have to go under.
You didn't know that? You're off the Jordan River. You're going under.
You see? Hold on. Sit still. I want the fish.
Hold on. Come here. Come here. Come here. You really have to join me. I have to baptize you.
Honey, they're fish. Good fish. Be careful. Yes. I promise. All right. Listen, for you putting up
with me, the co-leader of MythVision, so long, Mrs. MythVision, I now baptize you in the name. Wee.
Wee. I'm just going to put you under MythVision.
The fish are unbelievable in here. All right.
Well, okay. Now she's got to, you've got to forgive me a mic. You're going to say whatever words you
want because you are queen of MythVision. So you may say whatever you like. Passed demons out of you.
Yes. If you want to just, you know. All right. Okay. No, I don't know. Go ahead. What do you want me
to say? You tell whatever you want. I don't know what to say. What do you want me to say? Hurry
up because I don't want to leave you. You have dealt with my wickedness and my wild, crazy butt
for 15, 16 years. So say your piece and slam me and drown me into the waters.
Don't tempt me. Go ahead. Don't tempt me with a good time. Ready? Hold your nose.
I don't need to. I know how to. I'm casting the demons out of you.
Look, look, look.
I think there's a fisherman dress in my gown.
It's the Antichrist. Can they hear us right now? Yes, they can.
Now it looks like there's no more sunlight on his face. It looks a little dimmer. I think it's
you, not me. Oh, so I'm Satan spawned. That's it. Hold it in. I remember seeing like being like,
did it just get darker? But I don't remember when if it was me or you or not. I think it was you.
Yeah. Now that you showed it, I think it was you. It makes sense. Ross Nichols told her to
bring me back down there and hold me under the water until there was no more kicking left.
But you know, that among the thousands of other things we did there, it was so much fun
and we document it and it's just we want to have you experience it with us. So we had fun.
We did a lot of heretical things at sacred sites and it was just fun.
Please. Yeah, we'd love to see all of you.
Everyone. Nobody there that's in this chat should feel like they shouldn't that we don't want them
to come. Yeah, it was really cool. And so we'll do more. We'll launch some more videos letting
people know because some people wouldn't see this stream or weren't here at the end. We'll do some
more discussions while you're here and record it. But we'd love to see you, the people we always
see popping in the chat and love the stuff we love to go and learn and have a freaking,
not just learn, but enjoy those hotels, those dinners, those breakfasts. That should actually
what started me to want to get healthy. When I got back, I started cooking my own breakfast.
Me too. I started out. Yeah. It was good food. Because after the, I was, I was getting a lot
away from COVID dude. And then after that, I was like, I'm out of shape now. I better get back
in the shape again. So yeah, absolutely. Oh, we got a super chat. And then I'm gonna roll out here.
Lev, thank you so much for that super shout out to Derek and Neil, the all stars, wishing you
guys the very best and love seeing you together. May you have great happiness and love. Lev,
thank you so much. Yeah. Hey, I'm glad that Neil's here. We literally spent, what are we just out
of nowhere? You're like, all right, when can I come in like next two weeks? And then you're like,
I'm coming. And then the day I came, the day right before I came when, you know,
your brother, but I already had the plane ticket. I was talking to my mom. I was like,
what should I do? Should I not? She's like, just come back before we, you know, the funeral on
Saturday. I was like, all right, because I mean, and you told your mom some deep stuff. He said,
mom, I know we lost my brother, but you have another son. And, you know, I'm, you know,
I'll never, I'm not going to lie. I'm being here during, this is probably the best thing I could
have done because yeah, who knows how your mind. Yeah, I'm like, I'm, you know, I'm with people,
you know, yeah. So someone asked if you know Hebrew. Well, you know some people. I do. I do
know a little bit. I can read it. I can read it. And I had to look stuff up. See, Kip keeps playing
with people teaching. No one here can do that. The words like I can read, I can sound it out and
read it. Like I'm at that level. I don't know what you call that beginner level or not,
but I can do that. And then I have to look stuff up. My vocabulary is very,
you know, not, not the greatest. So I have to look a lot, look, look up a lot of words.
Thank you so much for staying around. And me and him are going to go relax, eat, and then we'll do
some recordings and stuff. So any final words from you, man? I could
thank you everybody for the support and I hope to see you come with us to Israel.
Absolutely. You know what, you know what, James Taylor, when he wanted to catch me if I,
to test to see if I was full of shit or not. So he would be at a site and there'd be Hebrew written
on like a stone. He'd be like, what does it say? Tell him it would happen every time.
You did it. Yeah, you got it. You got it. Every time I'd read it. Yep. And James is definitely
sometimes I was even able to translate it and say, oh, that means it'd be like table or it's like,
you do know your shit. Yeah, you know some. Yeah, you admit that though. Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, the vote. Someone asked the vote. Good point. I didn't even think to bring that up.
Let's see where we're at on the vote. We never ended poll. There's 161 votes.
We got 12%. Yes. Let's see. Yeah, we do. So are you coming on tour with us? No, 56% of people
most likely can't go because either they don't like what we do or they can't afford it.
Maybe 31%. I don't blame people if they just don't know. Look it up, go to the website,
check it out. And then yes, 11% of 161 people are going. Yes. What is the calculations of that?
Man, I used to do freaking calculus in high school. And now I'm like an idiot.
Let's see what we do here. What is 160? How many people? 161 times what is that, 0.11?
17 people or so? Yeah. 161. That's good. So 17 people might go. I can't wait. I hope you sign
up. Get your spot reserved. We'll be on the bus having a hoot. We got another people dropping
supers all the time. Ellen, only just discovered you guys. Thank you so much for doing what you're
doing. Thank you. Yeah, I really appreciate the compliment. Again, on air, I've told you this
already and I'm saying it. Neil's brother passed away. And so this is more than just educational
and having fun talking about the shit we learn in Josephus and history. But we really are humans
who want to connect with other humans and let you know you're not alone. And if you are addicted
or you're struggling with addiction, you're not a bad person. You're sick. You might have an illness.
Hebrew cafe wrote my name in Hebrew. I see my name. I can't go up a little bit. What does it say?
Where? He says here. He says, I popped it up here right here.
Tata. Tata. What is that? Tata. Rabbi Neil. Rabbi Neil.
What does it say? Are we right? Is he right? Yeah. The Hebrew cafe? That's Neil. N-I-L.
Waiting for him to respond. Well, we're delayed by like eight to 10 seconds on the stream. So it
might be that. John Desis, love you guys. Many thanks, Neil. Okay. Oh, Toda. Oh, that's a dollot.
Wait, go back, go back, go back, go back. Toda. Let me see. I said Tata. It looked like a,
oh, it looked like, see, that shit looks like a tet. Toda. Okay, I got it now. Toda.
Thanks a lot. Toda to you too. Toda. Today, Rabbi Neil.
Toda. Toda. Yeah. Love y'all. Thank you so much for the support and
showing Neil's support in tough times. So thank you. We'll see you again.
Oh, we're supposed to end it with our special thing, right? We are MythVision and you have
just attained true noses. That's right.
