Is the Mount Ebal tablet truly a curse tablet?
Number one, truly a tablet that shows literacy in ancient Israel,
some form of pre what we think of Hebrew alphabet.
Is it authentic or is there so much hype around this thing?
There are other motivations, other factors that are at play.
Today, I have Dr.
Gad Barney joining me today. Dr.
Barney, it's apparent that Joshua wrote this curse tablet at this point.
Yeah, it is absolutely clear, clear as day.
Absolutely.
Well, I mean, in all truth, then there's another question for the one
that you just listed.
Is there anything at all on it?
That's not just what is, you know, it's not just what is might be written on it.
But are there any humans?
First thing is, are there any human incisions?
Any any human ever tried to write on this little
two by two centimeter tiny little
lead object?
So that's the first question.
Is there any kind of human incision on on this thing?
And if there is, are the are these incisions actually letters?
And only then do we need to ask, OK, what do these letters?
If there are there are any letters there, what do they what do they say?
I'll cut right to the to the end of this story.
I mean, I and most of most epigraphers by far.
I mean, really, all practically all of the photographers who have actually
voiced their opinion on this agree that there is nothing there.
There's simply no text at all.
So, you know, if you start building mountains on top of that, say, well,
you know, there is text and there is human, you know, markings on it.
And the text on it actually confirms that Moses was literate and all that nonsense.
I mean, excuse me, but but it is nonsense.
You're really building this this house of cards that absolutely has no base in anything.
So the first thing is to establish if there are any human markings,
human manmade markings on the object,
scientifically. So I was actually in touch with with some of the of the authors
and and and they're not all the same.
I mean, some of them are truly honest and really good people.
And and so and so I was in touch with them and asking questions about,
you know, how did you come to see these these letters because we are not seeing anything
and say, well, it looks like letters.
Now, I mean, that's the answer I get.
It looks like letters.
Well, I can hold rock that I find in a field.
And after squinting squint and add it for a while, I can see letters.
I mean, anyone can. It's it happens a lot.
The question is, are these really letters?
Now, when you have letters arranged in a in an order, like in a certain order,
like a line, whether it goes up or down or or or, you know, to the side
or sometimes it goes like a snake form.
There are all kinds of ways to write that people have been writing in different ways.
Then the order itself points to human intervention.
I mean, you might not be able to read it, but the fact that it is ordered
shows that it's not random.
It's not some because this is we're talking about lead lead is extremely soft,
very malleable.
We're talking also about lead that has been on in the ground for about at least
two thousand years.
I actually believe that this lead dates from the Roman period and not
from the 13th century BCE, as they claim.
But there's no way to know, actually, because it's it was found.
We'll talk about the archaeological context later on, but it was found
outside of any archaeological context, so we can't even date it.
And so he tried to say just to say he tries to say that the pile.
And by the way, I don't know if you knew this or our audience knew this.
I interviewed Dr. Scott stripling when this first came out.
And it was controversial.
I said, hold on, let's have you on.
I mean, I'm a skeptic.
I'm not I'm not shy to conversate with anybody.
And he came out kind of guns blazing, excited, ready to push this thing.
And he did.
And I had a lot of pushback from people.
First of all, this is West Bank.
He he's calling it, you know, there's some political reasons
why that's on the territory, certain things that he wants to be.
There's a lot of things that that that I got a lot of pushback.
And one of those as well was he's talking about wet sifting from a pile
that was already dug up, that he's somehow re going through.
How do we know? Well, he says, this pile we know was dug from this area,
this particular depth.
I mean, is there any way to validate any of that ultimately?
No, no, I mean, yeah.
So we can validate that it's not the case.
I'm not an archaeologist, but I do know that this was found
within the the pile of dirt that you so when you when I'm not an archaeologist,
but I did talk especially over the past couple of weeks with archaeologists
to talk to try to understand how these things work.
So specifically for Mount Ebal, but but, you know, for for other projects as well,
when you want to dig a certain area.
So you choose a perimeter, I know, two meters, three meters by three meters,
whatever it is, and you start digging until you get to the
about the depth that you want to start actually excavating.
Everything before that is just a pile of dirt that you just dispose of.
You just keep it to throw it aside and and keep somewhere
because it's not part.
It's not part of the stratification of your of your excavation.
And it's fair to say that means that those layers that already got dug
are earlier dates, so no matter what, you have to go through the Roman layer
if you're trying to get down into their all mixed together.
You just they can be at any point.
I mean, they're really just thrown away.
They're all mixed together.
They could be actually from yesterday, you know, you were talking from the surface down.
So they could be from last week, they could be from the Roman period
and they could be from, you know, the Bronze Age, late Bronze Age.
So now what I get from archaeologists often is the is that they say, well,
but the findings on Mount Ibal are 90% of them are from the late Bronze Age
and only, you know, less than 10% are from the Roman period.
Well, that's fine.
That is part of your actual excavated, if that's true, by the way,
but there are problems with with the interpretation as well.
But assuming for that for a second that that's true,
that is part of what you actually were able to date based on the
stratification and other parameters.
The two worlds are completely parallel, the excavated data,
you know, what was actually what you were actually able to date
because of certain type of pottery and, you know, possibly carbon 14 and things like that.
That's the actual excavated material.
Everything that you threw away in order to get to the layer,
to the level that you're actually excavating, that is a completely different universe.
It is completely that it's just a mess.
You don't know necessarily where or what the date is, where it is, where it came from,
where it was found.
I mean, as you were, you know, digging through it,
the thing the objects might have fallen down, they might have been picked up.
You just never know.
It is a it's completely different and there is no reason logically
to relate them to what you actually find found on site.
So, for example, again, if you say that it's 90 percent
Blake Bronze Age and 10 percent Roman, it says nothing about this pile
that was found in the middle.
Again, over, you know, from the Bronze Age to the Roman period,
we're talking about roughly a thousand years, you know, depending on when and when
in the Bronze Age and when in the Roman period we're talking about,
we're roughly a thousand years over that period of time.
There were people walking on Mount Ebal with stuff falling from their pockets.
So clearly there is other stuff there.
It's just not in the excavated part because, you know,
that's not part of the stratification that the archaeologists decided
that that's where they want to dig.
So, Dr.
Barnett, if I made just a poke in here, because I might do that during this interview
just to kind of highlight for our audience, it's very important that we do this for them.
The only way to try and show that this would have been Bronze Age
would be the markings or some type of science like carbon 14 or something like that to prove it.
However, it's not the only way.
OK, OK, I'm sure there's more.
I'm just saying like there's ways in which we could we could figure this out.
But even then, if we found writing, let's just say there's so many
kind of fake stuff that is out there now that it's like goodness gracious,
we really need to be able to validate that this object itself dates to this period.
We need to have a really good kind of scientific, empirical data
and knowing this came from that strata without someone saying, hey,
I just found this in a pile that was dug in the 80s or 90s.
And I'm like re sifting through.
It's just kind of odd, in my opinion, how this was discovered.
And then we're going to get into the problems, I'm sure,
about how it was immediately released and and and shouting for the rooftops.
So you are actually touching, I think, on one of the most important things
that we need that are this next generation of archaeologists and historians
and early history of historians and and and scholars of of ancient religion
in general have to have to tackle.
I mean, the first thing now and now I'm on this,
I'm totally agreeing with with Israel Finkelstein,
who's one of the great archaeologists in our area.
And he talks a lot about the need to be scientific about what we're doing.
I've heard it throughout my studies and I've heard and I still hear
here and there that the humanities are not a hard science.
It's not an exact science.
It's, you know, you can you can say what you want.
This is not this is absolutely not true.
It can be and it should be
managed or run as a as a as a as a as a scientific endeavor.
I mean, in the hard sciences, in physics, for example,
and my dad is a physicist, so we talk about it all the time.
In in the hard sciences, you come with hypotheses
and you have to validate them and you have to validate them
based on certain methodologies that people have developed over the years
and formula, etc. We can do exactly the same.
We there's no reason why we should not approach things
scientifically. And we I mean, we should.
And so for for
archaeological discoveries, like, you know, possible inscriptions
and things like that, we should be very, very skeptical always.
I mean, we had, if you remember, we had this Darius inscription
found at Laquiche about two months ago.
Yeah. You remember that?
That someone just everyone's like, whoa, this is real, man.
This is real. Exactly.
No, this is real. And so the thing is here, I the moment.
So one of my one of my friends, the moment he came out,
just sent it to me on WhatsApp and said, look at this, this is amazing.
And he knows that I'm working on the Persian, you know, on Persian periods.
So that for me would have been awesome.
I take one look at the picture of it and I say, this is fake,
because I work with exactly that kind of epigraphy of Darius the first.
And, you know, this is exactly the the the the the material that I work
day in and day out with.
And one look, it's like, this is this is fake.
This is this would.
And what I told him is this looks like what a student would write
who's trying to emulate, emulate the Aramaic of that time period.
So that it looks exactly like something a student would write.
It turns out that a teacher of Aramaic wrote that when when she was
when she was visiting the site.
So that actually fit fit exactly that kind of profile, though she's not a student.
But but, you know, it is for students and she did very quickly just to prove a point.
Anyway, so I said this this looks immediately looks like something
that is that is either fake or, you know, very suspicious.
Anyway, so that but that is not the kind of fake.
I mean, this is not, for example, we have many forgeries.
This is not a forgery. OK, it's fake, but it's not a forgery.
So no one tried to to sell anything to anyone.
OK, no one tried to to make money off of this
or to confuse anyone.
This is it was this was an honest mistake.
It should not have happened in the first place.
I mean, she should not have tossed it in the area.
But the the the fault here is on the the the the scientific team who tried to
will try to to to decipher it.
But actually, this also there's another really important point.
There has been problems also to you.
I mean, the need to use archaeology for
for propaganda
is is is very strong in some parts.
I'm not saying the entire Israeli antiquities
authority does this, but some people try to use this maybe for I don't know why.
They really pushed the the team to decipher this before
a certain feast, the poor him, because that's related to the Persian kings.
So they wanted to have a good news item just in time for this.
And they didn't let them apparently, from what I understand,
they didn't really let them do the full scientific process
in order for this to come out for that particular feast.
So these things are just not this is not scientific.
You cannot force this.
You can't force a scientific team to work faster just because you have a
you know, an opportunity to to to push to push some agenda.
So if I may, what I'm finding with Dr.
Stripling is that he came not only with a very big imagination,
it's as if he had his spatula in one hand, but his Bible in his other.
And technically, he's just looking at the Bible while scooping and going,
oh, it's all coming true.
Somehow this this this curse tablet that he likes to call
is somehow identified with Joshua's claim of this mountain
and there's curses on this mountain.
And now now the whole story, like as soon as you see the image,
you have this picture of the Bible automatically coming up.
And that seems to be what what it was when he interviewed with me
that that was it.
And so there's some motivating factors that I noticed.
He did an interview with Sean McDowell.
Yeah. And I don't know if we're ready at the interview yet to do that part.
But I'd be happy whenever you feel we've covered some of the before we get to that point.
If you feel like we've covered enough, we can play that clip
and let people kind of see what I think is going on there.
But is there any sure I want to add?
Yeah, we can we can play that clip.
Maybe just a couple of one sentence before we do that.
So Scott Shippling, anyone listening to this
can just go to a website called Associates for Biblical Research
and and and see what they what their agenda is.
I mean, there is a very clear there you go.
So this organization is all about
trying doing everything they can to prove the that the Bible is
inerrant and that's their that's their mission.
Quite just to read it for people who may not see this,
a Christian apologetics ministry dedicated to
to demonstrating the historical reliability of the Bible
through archaeological and biblical research.
And sure enough, here's this tablet.
Here you go. On the left, the Mount Ebal Curse tablet.
It's already published.
And I mean, like this guy's been talking about it
for six months to a year now before any any real
more than a year, actually. Yeah.
Let me ask you this, too, as far as we're concerned on this topic
about what the actual peer review has.
It's published in a there's so many issues we could talk about.
Like it's published in a in a journal that's scientific,
but it's not related to a pygraphy, if I'm not mistaken.
And then not only that, like
there's there's so many odd things that I think about this whole issue
that that are coming up is just how he promoted the whole thing
before anyone ever really got to do it.
And even today, aren't they hiding like all of these supposed scans?
They're not showing the like everyone can just see or.
So, yeah, so the the choice of journal is very, very bizarre.
It is a very serious journal, a very, very prestigious journal.
But it is its focus is mostly on metallurgy,
the chemistry of of of metals and of and really all of its board.
If you look at this, the boards of editors and and and the
and and the collaborators, they are all basically chemists
and people with that kind of background.
It's not an archaeological journal, of course, it does
because it deals with with metal objects.
Of course, sometimes it does have to do work with archaeologists.
But that's not its main focus, certainly not a pygraphy.
I mean, a pygraphy you send you should send that quote unquote text
to an epigraphy to see if there's anything actually there first.
And if there is, do the the epigraphers that are signed
on to the article actually decipher it correctly.
And that's an entire art form in and of itself.
Epigraphy is hard work.
It is very complex.
It should also be taken scientifically and should be
approached in a scientific manner.
That was not the case here.
But anyway, so back to the journal.
The journal is not what you would expect for for this kind of of publication.
So there was a problem with with this particular journal.
There are other problems that I won't get into right now.
But this there there's a lot of very problematic
thing around this particular journal
and the the context in which it was it was it was published.
Didn't Dr. Robert Cargile also do a stream?
I hope people will go and check out his video that he actually creates
a Photoshop. I use Photoshop for my thumbnails all the time.
Here on the left is the supposed curse tablet with its supposed writing.
And on the right, what are we looking at here?
Yeah, so on the right side, we were seeing Professor Galil's
you know, reconstruction or drawing that what he sees,
what he can read on this tablet.
And on the left hand side, you're seeing a slice of a tomographic scan.
What I now that's maybe an important thing to point out.
You see on the left hand side here of Bob Cargile's Photoshop window,
you see this tiny little thing that has a red
like a blob, it has a red line in it.
That that shows you where the the slice,
the image was taken that you're seeing on the left hand side.
So the bigger image that you're seeing,
the main image that you're seeing on the left hand side
was taken where that red line was.
So it's in the middle.
It's kind of like in the middle, it's taken that it's in the middle.
That means that it's where it's around the zero line,
which what they defined as the zero line for this,
which is around where the surface would be,
because this is a folded this is a folded piece of lead.
So that's where the surface, if there was writing on this,
that was around that area would be where the where the surface would have been.
So it's it makes sense to take a slice this this image from from there.
And that's what they published.
I mean, this is this is what they published as their as their
as their writing surface, as what, you know, what contains the text.
And on the right hand side, you see Professor Galeel's interpretation of that.
And anyone with, you know, any kind of, you know, vision ability to look at stuff
sees that there's there's really almost practically no correlation between the two.
It's and I mean, again, very you can have, you know, using a lot of imagination,
you can see, well, this looks kind of looks like this, maybe.
But most of this stuff is just simply not there.
Now, when you point it out to them, they say, well, like Professor Galeel just said,
there is there are 170 different scans.
You need to go through all of them to understand
to understand this what we actually saw, what we actually deciphered.
Actually, it's funny because when he says that he says, well, you need to go through all of them.
And then in the same post on his Facebook page, he shows one image and he says,
well, look, this is where we can see it.
So on one hand, in the same post, he says, you need to look at the 170 images
in order to understand what's going on.
And immediately after, he tries to convince us with just one image.
So, you know, there's contradiction and all around.
And and there's simply a lot of hand waving, grandstanding and things like that.
As you say, this is there's so many issues approaching this.
So so look, I did this interview.
It isn't my goal to undermine or poison the well by thinking that, you know,
Dr.
Stripling is is working with motivated reasoning, special pleading, so to speak.
Maybe he's really wanting the Bible to be true.
But there's a part I really think is necessary to play in his interview with
Sean McDowell on this, you know, so-called tablet being really the cursed tablet,
which somehow authenticates everything Christians dreamed of.
And this is something I think worth noting.
And anyone who's interested to to really investigate, check out that link
with Dr. Robert Cargile.
I hope that you go and check out the full video.
I know that it's good.
Also, let's just play this if that's OK with you.
And then I'd love to get us to comment.
It might take us a little bit of time.
Let me put it at one point two five speed.
I don't want to speed it up too much, but just something here we go.
It's big, Sean.
I mean, on a scale of one to ten, this is a ten.
I mean, if you look at there were just four lists released from Israel,
the top ten finds of Israel in twenty twenty two.
And this is before the academic article was even out and three of the four lists.
This was the number one five.
Now, that doesn't say anything other than you guys put it out there
before anyone really did any, you know, investigation on this.
So that's true.
Unfortunately, they're not the only ones.
This is this, unfortunately, happens quite a bit in archaeology
that to put stuff out there before it's actually
actually peer reviewed.
This needs to stop.
It's not just them.
So to be very, very honest about this, it's not just them.
A lot of people are doing that.
It's very I know why there's some kind of appeal.
Maybe people get invited to all kinds of of talks in order to to to talk about
what they published in popular media before they do it on the on on.
It's much harder to get an academic article out past the, you know,
the review stage.
It's many months of waiting and editing and possibly even arguing with the reviewers.
If you don't have the patience for that, you might want to go to the popular media.
That, I think, not just for this case, in this case,
but we need to stop to just stop with that.
And I actually was was pretty, pretty
as positively surprised that one of the Israeli newspapers, Times of Israel,
at some point, they actually on their website, they said,
we are not going to publish anything more.
They talked about this team specifically, but they said,
we're not going to publish anything more by them because of all the problems
with the way they're they're doing things.
So more and kudos to them, more journals, more outlets need to do the same
and just say, you know what, we're not playing along with this
because ultimately, you might want, you might need to react and you might need
to get into all kinds of of other issues.
And it hurts your own credibility as well.
Yeah. So Sean asked him and he says, it's a 10 man.
This thing's huge and it's already up there. So.
Everybody recognized that this is big.
Now that the academic article is out, I think the gravitas will come come to bear.
And the ramifications are huge.
And this is why I've called this a tsunami from Mount Ibala because it reverberates.
Do we indeed have evidence of the literacy?
Does this dismantle the documentary hypothesis?
Because right next to Yahweh, we have El.
So El Yahu side by side in the whole basis of the documentary hypothesis
is that these sources are hundreds of years apart.
We have them side by side.
So just think about it, all the generations of seminaries
that have taught the documentary hypothesis.
If this dismantles that, that's huge.
So early literacy on a on a biblical level, an archaeological level,
an anthropological and sociological level.
The ramifications are big for as a believer.
I think the issue is, do we have a reliable biblical text?
And a lot of people have said that we don't.
And I think this argues or certainly puts the weight of evidence
towards saying that we do. And I think that's important.
OK, so you mentioned the documentary.
So before we end up getting into his, should we go ahead and play the document
his like how this I'd like to say something right here.
I mean, even even if that was true,
you know, critical Bible, you know, the critical study of the Bible,
if it doesn't not hinge on just on El versus Yahu
or two parameters, one parameter or even a hundred parameters,
we have thousands of parameters that show all of the,
you know, all of the problems with the biblical text.
I don't see that prop.
I mean, personally, I don't see that as problems.
These this is a text that was written for over, you know, over several centuries
by dozens of different hands, most of them anonymous.
I mean, almost all of them are really anonymous.
We don't know who wrote what.
And there is no, you know, so the whole the biblical corpus is
in many ways, the beauty of it is that it's such a human document.
It is not.
It is so many people.
It is in many ways, the Bible is a battlefield of ideas
between different sects, different peoples, different generations.
And that's what biblical, you know, we do as biblical scholars.
I also do some of that as well and not just a biography.
And so and what we do is to look at the document and try to understand,
you know, what came first, what part.
And sometimes it's it's even one word we know now through from Qumran
that sometimes they just changed one word.
And not, you know, not a paragraph, not a quote of the chapter,
but sometimes the editors just change one word because of sectarian sectarian issues.
So the Bible is so complex in any pretty much any old, old,
authoritative religious texts like the Rig Veda or the Vesta.
These are very complex texts, very rich texts, very beautiful texts.
And all of them have gone through, I mean, even Homer, right?
Yeah, the Homeric Corpus.
So much work has been done.
The thing about the Bible that makes it even more, more so
is that so many people over the over the during the time that it was
it was redacted, edited, written, etc.
People were saw it as giving them identity.
It actually representing their identity
and their sect within Judaism.
So you have all all kinds of sects trying to.
Insert here a verse here, a word here, a change,
even the order of chapters or again, chapters are very, very recent concept.
Right. But but but, you know, the Bible is just full of these things.
And we're the the critical approach to Bible study does not hinge on Yahoo
versus hell hell.
I mean, this is even even if we allow everything that they claim,
it does not show it really does not change anything for at your point for.
Yeah, I mean, it just doesn't even if we allow them all of that.
But that shows you something.
And we just saw, you know, Scott Shripling's website.
I mean, he set out to prove the inerrancy of the Bible.
And even under not only that, he's trying to undermine the notion
that Yahweh and L are two separate deities.
He's already trying to by saying, look, because there's a lot of factors into this
in the same interview he wants to push while others date it to the 12th century.
He wants to bump it back to like the 14th, 15th century BCE.
It's like he wants it back there kind of toward the Hixos in a way,
which, in a sense, several people who've investigated the Exodus show
if you destroyed the Exodus, if you go that far back.
So how's Joshua writing this in the 15th, 16th century?
And like there's all sorts of issues that kind of come up with what you do
if you're pushing that date, but he's kind of trying to go as early as he can.
Yeah, say that they're literate, say that Yahweh and L are the same.
It's just, you know, the same God.
He's doing all the things that would check off a contemporary
theological perspective of the Bible without seeing it critically and saying, OK,
we know this God, L, we know this from Canaanite sources.
We understand this is a different deity.
We have we kind of have this Baal and Yahweh figure
that kind of come in competition and Baal's father was L as well, just like Yahweh.
So they don't like this notion.
They got to destroy this whole thing because they don't like the documentary
hypothesis and they want the validity and accuracy to be true of what they
understand the Bible. Well, I mean, to be honest,
the the documentary hypothesis has also in serious, you know,
biblical scholarship, it's already you've already gone way beyond that.
I mean, it's it's too it's too simplistic in many ways.
Right, right, right.
And so but what he was trying to and I can I would I'll just say something
really quick on this because we have other things to cover on this particular
tablet and I can talk just, you know, I was just on this point.
But but what he was trying to say is that, you know,
the documentary hypothesis has this these different documents, right?
Different traditions.
One of them is called Elohim and the other one is called Yahweh, etc.
the priestly, Dr.
Dutronis and in there.
And so the Yahweh and the Elohim are seen as two different documents.
And he says here we see them both together so that for him destroys,
which is, of course, complete nonsense.
But that's that I think that's where he he was he was heading.
There's a lot of discussion still today going on with the Dutrona,
the documentary hypothesis.
But in most of us have gone beyond that that very simplistic view.
Again, we now know that there is so much more complexity than just these three,
four documents, right, or whatever you want to say.
The things are extremely complex.
The exodus again, I'll try not to go too much into this, but this whole exodus.
A story is extreme is much, much later.
And and I'm convinced, of course, not all of my colleagues are convinced of that.
But the but there are very good scientific reasons to
by through comparing it to other cultures and looking even at the at the vocabulary
used in this story to to understand that this is a much, much later, much later story.
So that was that was kind of imposed on a on a different, different narrative.
Anyway, we that that we can talk about for four hours.
But what else do we want to cover?
So again, the going back to this tablet, because that's I think the main thing
we want to talk about is that.
That bottom line, there is really no text there.
I mean, you people listening to this video might hear a lot about this.
And a lot of people saying, well, does it say this?
Does it say that or or first thing to understand is that there's
and I'm not the only one again saying this, but there is no text there.
And again, I want to reiterate the fact that I was talking to one of the one of the authors.
And he says, well, I see this.
And as I said earlier, you can see text in this in any piece of I mean,
rock that you you you hold up and you pick up in the field.
You can you can squint enough to see something written on it.
Seeing text methodologically, scientifically, just seeing text is not enough
unless there is other parameters on top of that.
Usually, maybe it's ordered in a line.
That's good enough. That says that there is human intervention.
But there's no order.
I mean, you showed you showed the photo from the Photoshop of Bob Cargill's computer.
There is no order to these signs.
OK, so you have something that is unorganized, not ordered,
not written in a script that we can we can.
So, I mean, we have to approach this.
In fact, so maybe one more one more word.
We're talking here about some new new technology.
What's called it's called tomographic, well, tomographic, you know, that's CT.
It's not new technology, but it's the use of of tomographic epigraphy
in order to decipher what might be writing that's within that that you cannot open.
That's really new.
And for this particular discipline of epigraphy,
which is only about two years old, there needs to be a very well
established, clear scientific methodology on how do we know it's a letter?
How do we know that it's a human incision or not?
And how do we decipher what we do when we understand to say, well, if it's
it is a human made marking, what does it mean?
It might be someone just drawing something.
It might not be a letter.
So there needs to be very, very clear set parameters.
And, you know, we're talking to a bunch of people to try to make that happen.
Wow, there's so much that goes into this tablet.
And it's really exposed a lot of, I would say, flaws in the way
that we've approached this and how we need to be more careful.
We have all the signs for reasons to be more careful.
There's no order.
Some of those symbols that we saw in that image earlier that that person was drawing,
like, I guess those symbols mean something in and of themselves.
But what kind of alphabet?
That's a question I'm curious to know about, because, you know, we know
what Hebrew looks like, and this what is this alphabet?
I got I got a lot of crap when I did my first interview with Scott Striplin,
where he was like, this is just an older Hebrew.
As if, like, there's this continuity of language from Moses.
This is just Hebrew, you know, biblical Hebrew, just a little older.
And others were like, no, this is like something else.
What is what is this writing?
It's something else.
It's related to what's called proto-Sanaitic script,
which is the first kind of really alphabetic script that was that was developed.
It was developed much earlier than the 13th century.
Keep in mind, 13th century, we are already post what's called the El Amarna stage.
We know that's maybe another thing that's important to say.
I personally have no problem saying that people were literate in Judah
and in Palestine at the time.
I have no problems saying that people were literate.
People could have written that does not the fact that they say, well,
this proves that they were literate, you know, that really doesn't innovate.
You know, that's that's that's there are very few people
that that would would would disagree with this, that people were able to write
and they were literate.
So really, again, that's not a very shocking
that should not place them in one of the top four discoveries of of last year.
Actually, nothing in all of this should have placed them at that at that point,
even if it was true, but.
But yeah, so so the the very fact that they that they that they show
that they might have been writing there, you know, that's really nothing nothing special.
Yeah, so the dating of this kind of the drawing,
because we can't say this is what actually is on this thing.
But assuming this drawing were accurate, we've got a lot of problems with that order.
There's no order. It's crazy.
I mean, I can go buy some mashed potatoes.
And if I move my spoon or fork around in my bowl and look hard enough,
I'll find an A or a B or an E or something.
I'll find letters.
And so anything's possible when you have jumble, when you have order,
we know human intervention.
But let's just assume pretending for one second that what was drawn
accurately reflects what is on this tablet.
What is this language and when would it date to?
Is this why they're forcing it back into the 15th, 16th century BCE?
Is that why they're trying to do this?
Well, I mean, linguistically, this is a language linguistically,
not in terms of the of the characters on it, but in terms of the linguistic
profile of this very good scholar just recently published his analysis.
He's a Hebrew scholar, studied this quote-unquote text.
I mean, he also says that there is nothing there.
But he says, assuming exactly like you just said, assuming there was not something there,
what would it be like?
He says, well, this is this is something that never existed in reality.
There is no, you know, the linguistic profile that never is completely artificial.
OK, it never really existed.
And they don't deal with that in the article.
They don't really do a linguistic analysis at all, which is also
very, very, very superficial way to approach this.
There is no linguistic analysis whatsoever.
So, you know, that's another problem.
That's another big problem.
And again, that it is an artificial language.
So that to answer your question, I mean, there's no I can't say, well,
it belongs to this time of this or this time period because it is
an artificial made up form of of the language.
That is that that tries to to impose a biblical
or pseudo biblical form on these letters.
I thought the tablet says curse, curse, curse, and it goes on and on, curse, curse, curse.
So how we if these are artificial letters and Scott Stripling
literally came out on my channel over maybe a year ago and was like,
this is what it says, says curse, curse, curse, you know, Yahweh, whatever.
I can't remember.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it kept curse, curse, curse, curse, curse, like where are they getting these words from?
Oh, well, that's easy.
Yeah, where that's easy, because Mount Ibal is supposed to be
if you want to prove that the Bible is inerrant.
Mount Ibal is is the mountain of the curse.
Right.
And so again, it's the Bible in one hand and like.
Well, it's the Bible dictated for them.
The Bible dictates the findings.
OK, so I want to find this.
You know, I want to find something that proves the inerrancy of the Bible
and I go in and find it.
So if I may just to be honest and I want
truth, I want I want the answer.
If this was really a curse tablet from this period, I'd be like, dang, this is awesome.
This this is interesting.
We may we may want to, you know, we may want to change some things
based on our criteria of what we understand.
The problem is, is when people do that kind of research,
I am highly suspect.
I mean, like it really makes me think they're being dishonest.
It they may not mean to be dishonest, but their whole framework,
their whole worldview, it really makes me question.
And it poisons the well for the rest of those well
meaning Christians in the world who want to try and do solid research.
Because this just again sounds again, propagandistic and motivated
to just prove my Bibles true and debunk everyone else who's been picking it apart
and showing how human it is.
Totally, I mean, look at let's I mean, you can look at it from the other way.
Let's say there was an in an organization of atheists
that put that just wrote on their website, our mission is to prove
that the Bible is a bunch of garbage, right?
It's that it's that's our mission.
And then they go and they also, you know, find all kinds of evidence.
That would also be suspect, right? Right.
Because that you are saying this is your mission, your mission becomes unscientific.
What if what if they found like to use your example, like they find a curse tablet
that some other God saying curse Yahweh, curse El, their figments of human
imagination or some crazy thing, you'd be like,
yeah, there's some motivated reasoning here. Exactly.
Exactly. And especially again, if you go out to the popular media
and try to push this more than a year before the article comes out,
I mean, they they started March 2020 at 23 and two.
So they, you know, and they were pushing and pushing and pushing it
and everyone was talking about it.
And they were, of course, and by the way, they so only a few months later,
they the same epigrapher, the main epigrapher of this of this project,
Professor Galil, he found another very, very similar.
Also, cursed are you cursed are you the quote unquote inscription
that was not there in Jerusalem.
And again, all the epigraphers looked at this and said there's nothing there.
So I mean, it's using exactly the same strategy.
And then they found so four different inscriptions that he has
just over the past year, suggested have very similar texts
and absolutely game changing texts.
One one person found all of them in just the past year.
And all of the epigraphers look at that and say in every single case,
there's simply nothing there.
I call this the epigraphers new clothes.
Um, because that's exactly what it is.
Um, but it's clearly motivated by some unscientific agenda.
I'm not going to get into any kind of speculation what the agenda is.
Of course, we did see on the on the Scott Scrippling Scrippling's website.
He says right there what the agenda is.
But for Gershon Galil, I'm not going to to get into that kind of speculation.
But something is motivating him to go.
And just in one year to find the find these four, four, quote unquote,
inscriptions that they're the only common denominator is that every
professional serious epigrapher says that there's nothing there.
So, you know, that's just that I believe from a purely scientific perspective.
It really hurts our discipline.
Okay.
Here it's our field.
Um, and that might be one of one of the things they are trying to do.
I don't know, undermine the credibility of epigraphy.
Um, I'm not saying it is, but that might be, um, but it does hurt our credibility.
And, um, one in one way shape or form that needs to, to stop.
Okay.
Um, and one of the things we're trying to do now is to do something positive out
of this, like I earlier, I mentioned earlier, to now go and systematically
build a methodological playbook, methodological framework on how to deal,
how to decide, is there anything written or not?
Um, if there are any, any human incisions or not, what kind are there of incisions?
Are they a real methodological framework that people could use?
I mean, they can, of course, disagree with it, but at least they can, they
need to reference it.
Um, and we will all grow as a discipline together from it, but we lack the
methodological, uh, um, framework in order to do this correctly.
And that needs to change.
So many problems with their method.
I mean, they find it in a pile of already dug up stuff.
We don't know when and where it actually comes from.
You think maybe Rome, others think maybe, or these, uh, discover.
I actually think it's a clasp.
I don't, it's not a, it's not a tablet.
It's basically a clasp for maybe a rope.
Bob Cargill actually, I believe also suggested this, that, uh, I mean, he
was, he was the first to suggest this as far as I know.
Um, because it has this depression in the middle.
This is the line going through it.
Um, and, um, and that really fits really nicely.
A thread that's goes, that goes through the thing and it's just a, I mean, it's
led, so it's very, very soft.
It's perfect for, for a really, you know, light clasp for a piece of clothing.
Um, and that's, I believe all it is.
It's a, it's a clasp that fell into the ground and, you know, and that's, that's
really it.
I mean, the emperors, the emperors new clothes, the epigraphers new clothes.
Um, you know, it doesn't show anything that you wouldn't expect a piece of
lead being in the ground for hundreds of years to show.
I mean, it'll show damage markings from, you know, pieces of pebbles hitting it
over time, you know, maybe hail, maybe a stick, uh, you know, just a wooden stick
that was pressed on it for a while, all these creations, all these damage
markings, that's what, that's actually what you see it from the outside and
from the, on the inside.
So, you know, Dr.
Marnay, you just don't want the Bible to be true.
Okay, I'm kidding.
Yeah, this is interesting.
So last I, I caught you, I caught you, man.
No, no, this is, this is really interesting.
So the possible clasp for, for some type of clothing possibly, we don't
know, we don't know, but if when, when someone is looking at this and can come
to this is probably a clothing article from some period between way, way
back to Roman era, who knows, um, it can jump to Joshua on the, on this
mountain, people are writing exactly like the biblical tradition says curse,
curse, curse and come up with this.
It sounds like imagination and Bible are playing much more work in their method
than rigorous scientific.
Actually, there's no imagination there.
It's just taking the Bible with no imagination, taking it and saying that
is verbatim, what happened, what must have happened.
And we will show, you know, in various ways, we will show more or less ethical.
We will show them, we will show that that's actually what happened.
I mean, you talked about the, the actual excavation should not have the
sifting of this not have happened from there's, there's problems with
international law, there's problems with the Oslo Accords.
This is, you know, area B, uh, which is really under Palestinian control.
They didn't get the authority, the, the, the, the, the, uh, required
authorizations for that.
They might have, they say that they got, they got some kind of
authorization from the Israeli authorities, but this is area B.
So that's not up to the Israeli authorities technically to, to provide these.
Uh, if I may just to let our audience know that hasn't been, if you haven't
traveled over there to Jerusalem and this area, there are different locations.
One, we got area B, Palestinian, you have a, and then there's a C zone, I believe,
where it's like a don't go.
I can't remember the specific no go.
Yeah.
C is, uh, the under the PA authority, the Palestinian authority.
Okay.
Basically under its supervision, B is kind of in between and A is under
Israeli, um, administration.
Okay.
But B is, is in between, but at the, all of the actual administration, I mean,
like, uh, for licenses and things like that, that the Palestinian side has to,
has authority over, over the B areas.
Um, and here, I mean, there, there are issues.
There are questions, international law questions and things like that with the
ethics of this, uh, Scott stripling on a YouTube video.
I don't remember where I think in the same, uh, Josh McDowell, uh, uh, video
also said, well, there were problem.
People talked about, you know, mentioned problems, but, you know, we, we, we dug
anyway, or we sifted this anyway.
Um, that's just not ethical, uh, and, and, and should not, should not be done.
I mean, we, in archeology and everything we do, we have to be first ethical,
you know, because there are people there, uh, who live there.
Um, I mean, it might be disputed areas between Jews and Palestinians, but
there are people there and for both sides, this needs to be ethical first.
Okay.
For both sides, for both, both the Israelis and the Palestinians, this needs
to be ethical, uh, both sides only, um, only, um, um, you know, uh, the
situation only gets better because for, for them, if we just follow ethical
route, the, the, the ethical path for this.
So, um, so that's one thing.
Well, I want also to go because you reminded me of another issue.
They date this, um, this, uh, um, piece of lead to the 13th century or the 12th
century, depending on who you talk to, um, based on the source of the lead.
So we are able to, and that's really something that's a great development in
archeology.
We can often say where certain metals came from.
And the lead that this was written, all written, you see, they got me here.
The lead that was found, um, is from it, la, la virion next to Athens.
So it's a, it's a, it was a great, very big and very important, uh, source
of silver and lead, uh, in, in antiquity.
It is true that this, this mine was active until after the Bronze Age
collapsed.
So about the 12th century, uh, BCE, and that's all they say when you listen
to stripling the lead, they say, well, it stopped being active.
So that's why we can date the, we can date the lead.
What they don't tell you is after the Bronze Age collapsed since late
seventh century, it returned to being active.
Of course it's a mine.
People still want to make money off of it and they still want to, uh, uh, to sell
the, uh, the silver and the, and the lead.
It, it became active again in the seventh century BCE and was active up until
at least up until, I mean, actually it was active up until the early, uh, the
end of the fifth century.
Uh, but another thing is lead is something that you can reuse easily.
You can melt it and use it again.
So the fact that it came from somewhere doesn't mean that it wasn't
melted and reused hundreds of years later.
So, you know, it's not the fact that this piece of lead came from some source
means nothing, uh, for dating the, this object.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Cause if you, if we found three different periods, millennia part that, that a cave
that are a particular place where lead and, and silver or whatever might be found,
like, we have no way to verify unless the object itself.
And we could, we actually had methods that showed what layer this actually comes
from and we could do all sorts of stuff there.
There's a lot of things I'm sure that we could do.
Um, but one thing you forgot to mention is since this man is
American, he has the right to dig and sift wherever he wants to, right?
Uh, it seems like American, I'm guilty.
And, you know, we do this stuff all the time.
Um, in fact, uh, my buddy, Dr.
Kip Davis, wonderful, uh, you know, Dead Sea Scrolls scholar, he, he's big.
He knows, I think the epigraph material as well, like he'll pick
apart Dead Sea Scrolls to try and see how the dating, he's awesome.
And he was like, took on Josh McDowell, the father of Sean McDowell and showed
how they were, they were like, unethically dealing with these manuscripts.
And like, even some of the apologist scholars were saying, we have a first
century mark and they were wrong, of course, but like how they jumped the gun.
They assume the earliest they can that somehow validates their claims biblically.
They got the Bible in one hand and they're just not even looking
what they're doing with the other.
But they're hand washing manuscripts with soap and water.
Like they don't, their ethical practice doesn't matter because we're Americans.
We have the right to do whatever we want on this planet.
Right. That's what it seems is going on.
I don't know about that.
I think really we, we see it all over the place.
A lot of Israelis doing this and Europeans doing this and, uh, people
are being unethical and really good people.
Like, you know, Kip Davis and others who are really doing great work
on the ethical side on the scientific side.
So, um, so, you know, we have, but we need to be very, very skeptical.
If you read anywhere that this, like we had, you know, a few years ago,
if you remember, we had this Jesus wife Papyrus that came out, turned out
to be a fake, right?
We have a lot, so many stories of, of, of, of really bad.
We already mentioned the Darius, the Darius Ostrakhan that turned out to be a fake,
not a forgery, but a fake.
Um, we have tons of, I mean, a lot of Dead Sea Scroll material that is,
that is very, really problematic.
I just recommend to anyone listening to this, be, always be skeptical, uh,
about, you know, like grand announcements like this, always be very skeptical.
Check the background of the people that are, um, that are promoting these things
and, um, and, and just be really, really skeptical.
You know, critical thinking is key.
Um, I mean, there, there are some really important discoveries, of course,
and that, that really are, are legitimate that add to our understanding of religion,
of the Bible, of Judaism, of Christianity.
We have a lot of legitimate things that, that are out there.
The problem is that all of this industry of fake news, um, is
giving a bad name to the legitimate stuff and, um, and really, really does a lot of
harm to, um, to the work of honest, honest epigraphers, honest historians, honest
Bible scholars, um, you know, honest scholars of religion in general.
Uh, and, and that's really what the main, I mean, one of the main problems, uh,
from this.
If anybody is interested in, in wanting to keep up to date with more material here,
Dr. Barnett is on Twitter.
He is always posting something about something important.
Even Kip Davis loves watching your stuff.
When I told him I'm interviewing you, he's like, oh, he's awesome.
So please go follow him.
Yeah, I love Kip.
Go follow Dr. Gad Barnett Barnett.
And also you can go to his academia page.
Both of these will be down in the description.
So I wanted to give you a shout out and a plug there.
I hope people will start supporting scholars that we bring on to myth vision.
Dr. Barnett, I know that you also specialize in things that we're
not even talking about today.
Like it's, it, this is, you're, you're really, really an expert in the Persian era.
Uh, I want to talk to you about that at some point, but is there anything
about this tablet, this, this clasp, this piece of metal, uh, that you would
like to mention or the whole scenario that we did not cover before we go?
Regarding that particular tablet, I don't think so right now.
Um, I think we pretty much covered it.
Uh, that's, I think we said everything that needs to be, to be said, you know,
like all interviews, probably five minutes later, I said, oh, you should have
talked, you know, about this.
It's always the case.
Um, but, you know, I think we touched on the main points.
Well, I seriously appreciate your time and very good.
Like it's interesting to go watch that interview with Sean McDowell and him.
The confidence, we're certain we have this story.
Like it's almost without a doubt.
Anyone who questions Dr.
Stripling's just, look, you're just motivated to not see the Bible is true.
And like, I don't see a webpage where you've written, Hey, it's my job
to rip this thing in half.
I do see, however, on his webpage with his ministry, it is our purpose
and duty to show the validity of the historical reliability and archaeological
data that the Bible is accurate historically.
And so, so there's got to be somewhere in the middle that everybody should be at.
And our methods should be very cautious and ethical in the approach we do.
Very scientific.
So, um, thank you, Dr.
Barnett, I really appreciate it.
There's final words from you.
No, I really enjoyed chatting with you.
And I really hope the people watching this would, uh, would really approach
things with, with, with skepticism, with healthy skepticism, critical thinking.
Does it, I mean, you can be a believer of Jewish Christian.
You can be a believer and still seek the truth and not just, you know, not just,
um, you know, your, your fantasies of what should have been, uh, the case with the Bible.
The Bible, um, maybe just a final word on that.
I mean, it is an amazing, uh, work of human, you know, humans working together
over centuries, producing, uh, a very, very complex, uh, uh, you know, uh, uh,
set of documents, intertwined, reedited, redacted, all of that stuff.
That does not make it less, um, central to, to your faith, uh, or to, you know,
if you don't believe to, to, to that as well.
I mean, whatever it is, whatever your perspective on the Bible is, um, you know,
we need to have it be based on true parameters, on serious work, not just on fantasy,
not just on, you know, on, on, on ideas of what the, uh, you know, some, some, uh, ideal, um,
inerrant, um, I mean, the whole idea of inerrancy.
I mean, it's just, that's just, uh, that is, that is not the way to, to go.
And actually that is not the way to even, um, uh, to, to, to honor the people who wrote it.
You know, I mean, if you think of the people who wrote it over so many centuries
and added and, and, and, and edited and redacted, they worked on it to, to, to reflect something
that was from their time and day and, and, and their sects and their, you know, their ideologies,
respect that. You respect the, the, the preformity of the Bible, respect the, uh,
you know, the, the, the richness of it. And I mean, it's not about being inerrant or not.
This is, this is so anachronistic. Um, no one in antiquity even thought about this in, in these
terms. Thank you so much for that. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with you 100%. That's our pursuit of truth here
at MythVision. We are interested in the facts. Give us the facts. Give us the data.
Keep your wishful thinking at home and never forget we are MythVision. There you go.
