Where does myth and history meet? Dr. John Knight-Lunwall and I have a really good conversation
talking about history and mythology and he takes us through a PowerPoint presentation
showing a lot of interesting things. Many archaeologists and historians thought a lot of
characters never existed, sometimes places never existed. And upon further investigation we found
some roots to some of these things that give us reason to believe there was a historical beginning
or a root to the stories that we're reading today. Yeah, it may be completely mythologized,
but does that mean that there was no history to it or person at the basis? I don't know,
let me know what you guys think. Hope you enjoy the show. Hit that like button,
hit that subscribe button in the bell and don't forget comment down below and let us know what
you think. If you want to join MythVision podcast you can go to our Patreon account and join us there
as well.
We are MythVision. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen. We have my brother John Knight-Lunwall,
Dr. John Knight-Lunwall. How are you doing? Doing great Derek. It's good to see you again.
You too. I want our audience who hasn't seen the previous episodes that we've done together
and the one that went missing. I don't know how that happened. Well, that's quite okay.
It gives it more authenticity when you bury some stuff for a thousand years or so.
Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is an inside joke. Anyways, what is your expertise if you don't
mind? Yeah, I have a doctorate in comparative myth and religious studies from Pacific
Graduate Institute out of California. My dissertation was on the mystery cults of the
Greco-Roman world. Really, it was an exploration of how cultic systems emerge out of oral
societies from which we get the myths, the mythology. My area of study is in oral societies
and how they transmit their information. Of course, mythology is part of that.
When you do a graduate study, Derek, 90% of what you read is what academics think.
You should be reading source materials and you do, but you are reading a lot of what
academics think about what ancient mythology and history is and how ancient religions emerged.
My innovative take is I took all that I read out of years of graduate school and realized that they
were missing two huge chunks and all of them. All of them. Part of that is
orality studies as shocking that you would miss that in theories of myth. Then the other part
was oral cosmology. I am a project leader of an archaeo astronomy project in Utah. I have a
team of researchers and we are looking at the Fremont Indian that is the Native Americans
that inhabited present day Utah a thousand years ago. We know almost nothing about them,
but they did leave behind some archaeological artifacts and a ton of rock art. I have shown
on several different panels that the rock art has been carved in alignment with the sun as it moves
across the sky through the year. There is whole methodology behind some of this rock art as they
analogize it to the seasons and to the sun. They probably analogize it to other things, the moon,
certain stars, but that would be very difficult to prove without more context. This is what I do.
I lecture and I give presentations. I am an editor and I do this archaeo astronomy project
and I hang out with my buddy Derek. You bring up something interesting. We have done previous
shows. For those of you who are watching, go down in the description. When this video is done,
we did our previous video. You can see where he talks about the orality and the importance of that.
We are going to be touching it. I can guarantee you, you cannot have John on the show and him not
discuss this because it is fascinating. You talk about the idea of astrological stuff. Then you
talk about orality and how we went from a non-written type of people to writing. I feel like the reason
why people can see astrothiology or people called star myth stuff is because they are taking oral
traditions or like you also emphasized, it is not just oral. A lot of this is also dance and ritual
movement, kind of like the Indian who is chanting across the fire at night. It is an interesting
thing. There is significance to that. They are writing a lot of this stuff down. Like you said,
there is not enough to boom. We hit the nail. Here is the case. We prove with all absolutes.
I see hints of it. I see there is definitely something there. I think that goes into all
of them. The Greek myths, obviously Greco-Roman, the Egyptian. In my opinion, I could be wrong, John,
correct me if I am wrong. I think there are three pyramids that line up that look quite like Orion's
bell. There are people who actually deny that. I do not know where we are going tonight. I am
just here to follow you. I am your student and I want everyone watching. We have some fun tonight.
Tonight I am going to talk about the intersections between ancient myths and history. How ancient
oral societies were they concerned about history? What is history to an oral society?
How they encoded that in myth? What kind of history do you get out of oral societies?
It turns out, once you lay that groundwork, we are going to rabbit trail into the Bible,
as you would say, very often. As you understand how ancient oral societies transmitted their
information. Many of the stories in the Bible, you start seeing it in a new way. I have noticed
on your show you have got a lot of mythicists, a lot of people who are saying this cannot be
historical because it is mythological. It turns out the issues are far more complex.
So, I think we are going to have fun. We will have fun and we will tip toe through the
world to Ellipse and we will see where we get. Two things, ladies and gentlemen,
you know if you are going to be initiates to this, you have got to have thick skin and be
willing to travel. I like to be, I guess you would say like water. Bruce Lee is a little
saying, be like water. And so, I try to travel wherever my guests go and allow them to give
what they have to offer. I am here to learn. I am a student. I do not have all the answers.
That is why you do not see me just put out videos with Derek Lambert teaching. I always
bring people on. I love learning and I hope my audience feels the same way because I am on a
quest for trying to find the concrete. Look, I see enough myth to know it is there. Anyone who has
eyes that are not, I like to call it Kool-Aid drinking red, they are not told what to think that
it is saying can see the mythology. But can you find the history? And I think once you know the
mythology is there, it is very complicated to know where does theology cut off and where does
history begin? And that is a very, even today we all wrestle with that. Even you probably wrestle
with that, but still you believe it is there. And I am here on this journey and I will shut
up now. We can get on with the show, brother. All right, Derek. I totally agree. Sometimes
extracting, I am going to start my PowerPoint. Let us see. Now, how do I show it is green?
He can write books, but he cannot. I am just a ladies and gentlemen.
Let us see. All right, looks good. You got it? I got it. All right.
Look, you know, a long time ago, Mertje Eliotti, who is a great scholar in the history of religions,
said clearly, we do not doubt the historicity of characters in epic poetry. But their history
soon does not long resist the process of mythicization. That is his word.
And so, in other words, there is all kinds of historical content in the poems of Homer,
for example. And yet, by the time it gets to us, it has been mythologized. And so, you know, you
said you can see where the myths are, but sometimes it is very hard to pull the history out of it.
That is very true, because it is easy to throw the needle into the haystack, but sometimes
getting the needle back out of the haystack is impossible. And so, and that is a problem.
And that is a problem we are going to face. Hey, so I am going to start. Here we have a
myth in history, the oral world in the written word. If you have seen my presentations, I always
PowerPoint them. And I thought tonight we would just jump right in. So, I am going to take you
to Egypt. I was there last year, all these shots are mine. This is a Luxor, the temple of Karnak,
and it is the pylon gate entering the temple. And I really want to get some shots of it.
The wall that you see there is actually completely carved with images and hieroglyphs. So, here is
a closer up shot. And now you can see behind the statue that the wall is entirely covered with
writing and images. It is actually very hard to see. You are there during the day. It is almost
invisible, because the sun blanches it out. And so, luckily, I went there a couple of times,
and I got there in the early evening, and I was there for hours in the night, and they have light
shining up, and I did all these camera tricks to try to draw out the images that I could.
So, here is just a close up. You can see that the walls are carved. So, let me tell you what is
on this temple, because it is going to lead us into our conversation tonight. This is another
image, by the way, not at Karnak, but Abu Simbel that I took. And it is Ramsey's writing as a chariot
during the Battle of Kadesh. And it turns out what we are looking at here at the Temple of Karnak
is an entire scene of Ramsey's II fighting the Hittites in the Battle of Kadesh. That is what
they have carved on this pylon gate. So, here is what we know about that battle. Let me get back to
my screen. One, it was an actual battle that took place in history. In fact,
it is probably the best historically recorded battle we have got. There are references to it
throughout Egyptian writing and in the Near East. So, we know it happened. It happened around 1274
BCE. It was the Egyptians versus the Hittites. It was a massive chariot warfare. They estimate,
if the texts are to be believed, between 5,000 and 6,000 chariots were involved from both sides.
It was fought near the city of Kadesh. This is northern Levant. And Ramsey's II led his forces
into battle. What we know historically about it is it appears to have been a draw. There wasn't a
decisive the Egyptians taking over the Levant after the battle. But it was a tactical victory
for the Egyptians. And what we get on the writing of the gate that we saw there at the Temple of
Karnak is a really interesting narrative. So, let's get to that. Here we have a drawing of the
figures on that pylon gate. So, black and white drawing. And I've repeated it. Because on the left
portion of the gate, you see Ramsey's here. Can you see my cursor? Yeah. You see Ramsey's here
sitting on his throne. And here he is in his chariot. And he's leading his chariot battalion
into battle against the Hittites. Well, right behind him in that same scene is Ramsey's again,
except he's twice as big. And he's facing the other direction. He's got these priests
giving oblations and blessings. And so, we have Ramsey's facing one direction as he charges into
battle. We have Ramsey's twice the size facing the other direction, presumably receiving
prayers and gifts to get ready to win the battle. And he goes into battle. Well, it turns out the text
on the wall shows us that the battle doesn't go well for Ramsey's. According to what is written
on the wall, Ramsey's charges in and as the sun sets and darkness falls and his chariots are
scattered. And he finds himself all alone surrounded by the entire horde of his enemy,
right? And so, he gets on his knees and he prays to Amon for aid to overcome his
adversaries. And then at the darkest hour of the night, the seventh hour of the night,
Amon responds to his prayer. He's given power. And then he gets in his chariot. And in the next
scene, which is on the right side of the gate, Ramsey's second gets into his chariot and single
handedly. This is without his army. He charges against the Hittites and he crushes them, right?
Yeah. And so, phalanx after phalanx, you know, retreats in front of him. And at the rising of
the sun, Ramsey's the second is victorious. The Hittites are destroyed. And here we have this scene
here where all their horses and chariots are in disarray. And there's Ramsey's on the right,
bigger than life. And, you know, the Calvary eventually comes in to mop up after he's done,
right? So this is this is the scene we get. And of course, for the longest time,
it was simply, you know, reported by academics and scholars as just a radical piece of political
propaganda, right? Ramsey's is showing that he is the god man of Egypt. This is 13th century BCE.
You know, apparently contemporary with Moses, right? The same same time period. And he supposedly
is the same Pharaoh. So but and so, you know, it's interpreted as he is just promoting himself as,
you know, the leader that overthrew the Hittite army. And so that's the way it was
for a long time after the after these scenes were deciphered. But then in the early 1900s,
a man by the name of Shwaller De Lubix, who was a self trained Egyptologists,
by the way, all the early Egyptologists were self trained. There was no, you know,
there was no school of Egyptology. They're all they're all self trained, Petri and the whole
lot of them are self trained. And De Lubix is French, incredibly intelligent, bright guy.
He lived in Egypt for 15 years. And he did an entire survey of the temple of Karnak. And he
realized that something was going on with this temple freeze in stone. And I think he had some
very brilliant insights. So we're back here to the right left side of the gate. And we have Pharaoh
facing one direction, Pharaoh facing the other direction. So it turns out the smaller Pharaoh
facing right is actually on that temple facing west. He's facing towards the setting sun. And he
leads his chariot army at the setting of the sun. Okay, the bigger Pharaoh seated there,
same person facing east, he's facing towards the rising of the sun. And he's receiving the power
and blessings and prayers of the of the sun priests, right? So he's empowered at the rising of the sun
to go into battle. Then he faces west and he goes into battle. And when the sun sets in the west,
what happens? Well, it gets dark, right? And this entire battle scene gets dark. He finds himself
totally overthrown, right? He's by himself, his ranks of chariots are scattered and gone.
And at the darkest hour of the night, he is alone. And that's when he turns to Amon and says his
prayer. And at the darkest hour of the night, just so happens to be the hour that the sun starts
emerging out of the underworld in Egyptian mythology. And sure enough, after that prayer,
he reassends with the sun by himself as the solar chariot to overthrow the Hittites.
So what Deluvik said is, wait a second, this entire historical narrative is being analogized with the
Egyptian Book of the Dead. Because in the Egyptian Book of the Dead, the neophyte descends into the
underworld at death. And he goes through all these trials. And there's all these, you know, all these
opponents and all these things he has to overcome. And at the seventh hour, the darkest hour, he is,
or she is completely isolated and must face the reality of who he or she really is
in deity. It is the most treacherous point of the underworld journey for the dead. And if they can
pass all the trials, if they can pass the darkest hour of the night, then the sun god sends them
aid and they begin re-ascending out of the underworld with the sun to obtain their eternal life
in divinity. So the entire historical vignette that we see here on the temple gate,
sure enough, it is a radical piece of propaganda. But at the same time, it's been analogized with the
central religious mythos of the Egyptians. So that there's an internal logic that's occurring here.
And that really Ramses is following the role of the initiate as he descends into the underworld,
dies, is reborn and re-ascends out of the underworld for total victory. So what we have then,
is the connection, the confluence of myth and history. The Battle of Kadesh really happened.
It's a completely historical event. Ramses II was a completely historical figure. But the history
we get told on the temple wall can't be interpreted as what actually happened, a blow-by-blow account.
It's all been mythologized, but the mythologizing isn't arbitrary. It's not random and it's not
just propaganda. It is propaganda, but it's not just invented to promote Ramses II as if, you know,
he's the greatest fairer in the world, right? An ancient version of Trump or something. But
he is being analogized with the center cult system and cosmology of Egyptian religion.
So literally, we get this vignette here where history is being mythologized,
which is what people do in the 13th century BCE. And this is the time of Moses,
plus or minus, view centuries, historically speaking. This is what is done. And this is what
is done from the foundations of Israel all the way until centuries later, we get literate priests,
not mythologizing history, writing the Torah. But before that, the oral tradition,
oral people's mythologized history. Now just think about it for a second, Derek. For us,
we create histories by thousands of footnotes, right? Good historians have journals and newspapers
and, you know, biographies and books and sources and personal interviews, right? They've amassed
all this information by which they compile a history. How much of that do oral people have?
People without writing. And the answer is zero. None of it. They don't have any of that. Now,
of course, the Egyptians are literate in the 13th century BCE, but it's a different kind of literacy.
It's not the full literacy of, say, the classical Greeks. That is to say, they're using different
alphabets. And they've got one foot still fully in the oral cult and one foot in textual analysis.
The medium is the message. And so it takes centuries after the invention of writing
for a fully literate consciousness to emerge. And we start getting that in classical Greece.
This is the difference between ancient Greeks and every other society. But as it turns out,
oral peoples mythologize history. They can't collate thousands of footnotes with thousands of
sources. They can't do that at all. What they do, therefore, and I really hate reading on podcasts,
I'm just going to read one paragraph. Okay, okay. Just one. This is and this is self-serving. It's
out of my own book. You got to get it. You got to get it. But let me just read. In oral societies,
real and historical details of a person or event last in the memory for about a century.
A grandfather can tell a grandson about his experiences. The grandson eventually tells
his grandson what he has learned. After that, the initial teachings of the first grandfather
made to grade. To maintain historical continuity, persons or events that must be remembered are
placed within a specific memory theater set up for them. Myth. Oral peoples have a set of narrative
templates. These templates are products of their cult and cosmology. In other words, they are
associated with the rituals and festivals that are constantly maintained and familiar to everyone.
So myth just isn't random. It's just not arbitrary. They just don't invent stories.
What happened there at the temple of Karnak is the historical event was analogized with what
everyone knew in the priesthood of the temple cult. The book of the dead, the journey of the dead
in the underworld with the sun. That's what they analogized with it. So if you want to remember an
event or a person, you are going to put them in to a narrative template that everyone knows.
And that's going to be your cosmological cult system. In this case, that was the book of the dead
and the journey of the dead in the underworld with the sun. People of renown are placed within
these templates and their stories are mythologized so that they can be remembered for generations.
The process is reversible so that when a particular teaching must be transmitted,
a myth is told rooted in historic fact. Eliade observes the historical character of the person
celebrated in epic poetry is not in question, but their historicity does not long resist the
action of mythicization. Eliade reminds us that myth is not the first stage of the development
of oral history, but the last. So by the time mythologies are produced, you're at the last stage
of the historical process of the oral mind. So trying to reverse that process, there's going
to be some complications no matter who you are. Even if an oral, I'm going to go so far as to
say, even if an oral person was trying to reverse the process from another culture,
they still wouldn't pin down what probably really happened. There's no way to do it. And so in the
literal sense, in the whole, in the literal, some of it, right? And not saying some of it,
you can't pull out, but we don't know always exactly where. And you're suggesting the literate
people, the writers, the guys who came on with alphabets and fully known language that's being
written, they're, I'm not going to say every author who wrote this, they might have understood,
hey, this is not literal, but definitely something happened over time. And it's not,
what we think of is not the way that it was meant to be understood. That's the best way I
could put it without trying to pin down. You're absolutely right. I couldn't have said it better.
So, right. To reconstruct the history in myths is,
it's like interpreting rock art. It's nearly impossible. So there's only a few things, you
know, when I look at rock art, I give the measurements, I show how the sun works with it,
right? I observe what I can prove, but actually interpreting it without any context is almost
impossible. Look, even Derek, in classical Greece, right, in 5th, 4th century BCE Greece,
the Greeks could not agree what Greek mythology meant. Okay, look, you had the humorists who
believed it was historical, that the Greeks emerged from historical peoples who got mythologized and
divinized, divinized. And so that's the whole school of people who believed that the myths
were historical. Okay, so guess what? That's always been on the table. As far back as you go,
if you were to go back and say, hey, was Orpheus real, most people would tell you, of course he was
real. It was Dionysus real. It was Heracles real. Yeah, of course he was real. So, but at the same
time, you had other Greeks who said no. It's the natural sciences. That's what myth represents.
Other Greeks said no. It deals with religious initiations. It's allegory for initiation.
And other Greeks said no. It's just fable. It's just made up. Okay, they were having the same
arguments, you know, 2,500 years ago that you're having on your show today. That's awesome. But
listen, they're the Greeks, right? They're the ones that have transmitted this stuff to us. And by
classical Greek times, you know, it was already, now why was that the case? And that's because
classical Greece emerges in a, you know, most Greeks still were non-literate, but it is a
fully literate system. And the fully literate scribes are the ones transmitting this to us.
We're getting everything through their lens, and that's probably not the accurate lens to get it
from. In fact, that's definitely not the accurate lens to get it from. And so we're just reading,
you know, 90% of the writing in Egypt comes from southern Egypt in the upper classes. So everything
we read of all the Egyptian hieroglyphs and the myth systems and the ritual systems is just reflecting,
you know, a point of view of a small class of people. And so the bottom line is,
yeah, it's difficult to put myth back together. It's Humpty Dumpty. Can I make a comment? This is
my opinion, right, right now. I have an opinion that's constantly evolving, literally by the day.
I'm learning things by the day. I cannot, I am absolutely open-minded. I am not a strict anything.
In fact, I found myself more agnostic because I said it's probably better that I'll be safe and say,
I don't know, based on all the stuff, because what we do have has been convoluted by church
fathers and stuff. And I know I'm jumping ahead. I don't want to go there. I'm just making the
point. I'm being careful. Because the way I look at it is this, we used to not think that Troy existed.
I mean, I remember when scholars thought that and then we found it. We used to think the
Philistine did not exist. Hold on, what happened? Well, guess what? I'm going to remain open-minded
even if I'm like, I don't know if there was, but I'm not going to be shut off to the idea that
if evidence does come forward, I'm not going to say, hey, that actually sounds like there might
have been a Hercules. Just saying, just saying, I don't know, you know, but I don't think we'll
be able to prove there was ever a Hercules based on what we found so far. But it's not
bad to suppose there could have been. And like you said, it's blanketed in such mythology to know,
Dr. Price likes to make the funny jab. And he goes, what was he, an ancient bodybuilder?
I mean, was the guy a strong man? I mean, they did make a story about it. Or was this a myth of
the strength of the sun being superimposed on a person who might have just been a warrior or a
fighter or a regular soldier who, you know, you just never know, because could his strength have
been just literally the strength of the sun being put onto a person. Therefore, there was no strong
man necessarily. You know what I mean? Just as a parenthetical when it comes to Hercules, one,
Heracles is not of Greek origin. Martin P. Nelson, the Mycenaean origins of Greek myth,
that's a book, tracked the motifs of the Heracles' labors in the Mycenaean age. So
Heracles was inherited by the Greeks, not created by the Greeks. Two, most of the labors of Heracles
archaeologically is found in the throne rooms of the kings of the city-states. So the kings
took upon them the persona of Heracles as they sat in their throne, which means that the labors of
Heracles, I mean, is basically imbuing the power of rule to the king of the city-state, which is
interesting because several Greek historians tell us that Heracles comes from Egypt and that
the first Egyptian king was Heracles. And so, you know, so again, it turns out the Epic of Gilgamesh
and the labors of Heracles have so many things in common that what we're breaching is a common
cult mythic system that was shared throughout the Near East in Babylonia, in Egypt, in Greece,
in Mycenaea. And so Gilgamesh, then, is the Babylonian Heracles. Greek historians insist
that it comes from Egypt and the first Egyptian king was Heracles. And of course, that's a Greek name.
And then the entire series of labors comes from Mycenaea. And so this is pulling that needle
out of the haystack. What is the real Heracles? And point two is that oral peoples have a
completely different epistemology. They organize their history completely. You know, they can't
tell you a real biography of a person. Everything has to be encoded in memorable form because it
has to be passed down orally. The reason why mythologies are full of outrageous characters and
gods copulating with everything that moves and huge monsters and heroes that are super strong,
one of the reasons is it's easy to remember. You know, the more outrageous the scenario and the
characters, the easier it is to remember. And so mythologies tend to be oversized, outsized,
because that is a demand of morality. That's just a function of transmitting an oral process. But
at the same time, you cannot transmit a biography of an individual. He quickly becomes, or she
quickly becomes mythologized into the oversized cosmic processes by which they encode all their
information. Literate peoples, we encode our information in books. They don't have books.
They encode their information in nature and the cycles of nature. So what's happening in nature
is sort of the spine of their stories. And then things are glumped onto that as far as history
is concerned. But they do that, right? There's this intersection between myth and history and
cosmology. And, you know, it is finding a needle in the haystack by the time we come to it. And
very difficult to do. But I can tell you this in Haiti. So you have Haitian mythology. This is
the Caribbean, right? And Haitian mythology is composed of three sources. The native Haitians,
which came from Mexico and Central America. They have all these war gods, Aztec and Mayan war gods.
The African diaspora. So early 1500s, the first slave ships from Spain arrive in Haiti with African
slaves. And they're there to process the sugar cane because sugar is what drove the slave trade
in those centuries. And then eventually the French show up and take over the island. But
so you have this African, Native Central American and Christian influences all in Haitian myth. But
what's interesting, I bring all this up is because one of the things the people of Haiti do is
they worship the dead. They have an ancestor cult. And if there's a particular person who did a great
thing for the village, they will memorialize that person. And every year they'll mention him
and they'll bring him back to life. They even have rituals to draw him up from the underworld.
This is the whole possession thing. This is the origin of our zombie, by the way. The walking
dead, it emerges from this myth cult system. Take notes. But over generations, you just can't
remember this specific person. And so the person turns into an archetype. They turn that person
into a Loa, Haitian deity. And so the Loa then kind of expands and incorporates the biography
of the person that they were trying to remember. And soon enough, the person is forgotten, but the
Loa is remembered. But the Loa now has an attribute that came from the actual historical person.
Do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah. And so this is how this is how it happens in Haiti,
it happens in oral societies. And so you get these deities or these heroes, such as Heracles.
And you know, I'm not going to go around and say Heracles is historical.
Right. No, I understand. That's not what I'm saying. You're not closed off to their having been
an original basis for why the archetype developed to be. That's what I'm saying. There could be a
core. And it's not dumb in any way to think there's a foundational reason for, you know,
I'll just give you one example, jumping to Jesus. And when I think this is important,
someone mentioned recently. Oh, we'll talk about Jesus. Okay. So then I don't want to steal any
thunder. No, no, it's still still. Okay. Well, I honestly can't. I honestly can't steal your
thunder. Your thunder is too, you're so far above me. No, I'm just kidding. No, but, you know,
Camille, Gregor recently came on, he's a historicist. And he said, you know,
based on if you're going to do prior probability, like Dr. Richard Carrier, who's a
mythicist, he said, you wouldn't create not saying there haven't been scenarios like the
Cargo Colts, which were brought up by Dr. Carrier about how it didn't take long for them to develop
a mythical character. But according to the idea of Jesus's historicity, they wouldn't have created
a even a fictional, a historical fictional biography of a guy 40 years ago. It's just too soon. Now,
if he was like slamming a guy 400 years ago, it's more probable that this could be based off of
an archetype that could have possibly at some point in the past, been based off someone else. But
the idea that Jesus himself, and I'm open to this, I'm very open minded to looking for the guy. I
don't know if we'll ever find the guy, but nonetheless, he makes the point that in 40 years, 50 years,
they're writing on this literature. And really, if you take Paul's dating back into the 50s,
like very soon. So you have to ask, was he like you just described as a very important player?
And whether one wants to believe in the miraculous claim of the resurrection, which I,
myself am not, you know, I'm not convinced of that. At the same time, if what you're saying
about this whole thing is true, this could have been a very good person who taught very deep
things to a very firm, strict followers of a small group. And they brought him back, so to speak,
if you will. And they, they live, let him live through them, if you will. And I don't know if
this is a combination. I mentioned this to someone else, I'm probably fringed by just throwing this
out there, even though I don't believe this, I'm just throwing it out there, that the Romans were
ancestral worshipers as well. It makes me wonder, with the influence of the Roman Empire on this
mystery cult type group, if there could have been some type of element that was borrowed there,
and it's not strictly Judaism, but it's something that's saying, we want to, we really want to honor
and keep this man in our, in our, we're going to let him live through us, so to speak. So I don't,
I don't know, I don't know, I'll throw it out there. No, no, that's, that's right. You know,
you're pulling up the needle in the haystack there. We're going to get into this. It is very
hard to fabricate a brand new world religion without historical basis. I don't think that
happened. So hopefully, we don't lose half your audience, but I'm not a mythicist.
That's okay. I don't agree. The problem with, I have with Richard Carrier is, is not so much
that he gets Jesus wrong, is that he gets myth wrong. And that, just because something is mythology
doesn't mean it's not history. This is the whole point I'm making is that
there will be, you know, in, in, in oral cult systems, a person
that is in mythology is really a title, like every deceased in Egypt became an Osiris.
Right. Osiris is the god of the dead, but every deceased who's buried with the book of the dead
or buried in a coffin with a coffin text is renamed Osiris. Right. And of course, one of the
etymologies, by the way, of Christ, Christus, is a K. R.
S. P. Those are the consonants in the Egyptian. They didn't write with vowels and it meant
corpse. It's where we get the word corpse, but it's also where we get the word core is a marine
core and a marine core is an initiated body. Right. And so in the Egyptian corpse is an initiated
body, initiated to what? Initiated for eternal life. And so the whole point here is that
you can argue whether Christ is historical or non-historical, but one thing's for certain,
when you're baptized, you're to become a Christ. Right. You become, you take on the name, you,
you take on the identity. When the Greek king sat in his throne, he became Heracles.
That was the point. So if you walked up and said, do you believe Heracles was historical? Was he
really real? You'd look at you like, yeah, look at me. Yes. Right. So I mean, we don't think that way,
but you take on the, you take on the role. That's how oral peoples also do it.
I might have to set you up with a discussion or a debate at some point on myth with Dr. Carrier,
because he usually will challenge PhDs, if anything, but maybe there will be an interesting
topic you can agree to debate over, not necessarily the historicity of Jesus, but myth itself.
And maybe, I don't know, something in that area. I'm not trying to. I'd be totally fine with that.
It'd be wonderful. Yeah. No, it'd be totally fine. I just don't go as far as he goes,
is to say there cannot be a historical Jesus. I personally think it's almost impossible to
start a religion without a historical person to put it on. Now there's all kinds of mythologizing
that. We just looked at it. The Battle of Kadesh in Ramses II. It's a historical vignette that is
mythologized. And so we'll get into other examples as we get along. I do want to say for the record,
just so he may pay attention to this video. I want to say for the record, he doesn't say,
as a matter of fact, that Jesus didn't exist. In his book on the historicity, he says there's a
one third chance. So it's based off probability. He thinks that there's a third chance. Like,
it's not as probable that he was historical and he uses the rank raglan idea. So he says,
there's like a bunch of other epic heroes that some are already like, I guess you'd say on record,
most will say did not exist. And then others did. And he tries to compare them based on
probability. So it's a big probability. He never says as a matter of fact. Now some people who are
mythicists, they are absolutely convinced and they don't even entertain. It's just he entertains.
He says he entertains. Thank you for correcting me. I don't want to know what he says. But if it
ever happens, you want to read his book, trust me, because then you can at least know what you're
you know, right? Well, I should read his readers. I've seen him debate. And I've seen him on your
show. Actually, I watched I watched that. So I just there's this kind of brand of mythicism where
Jesus is not historical. And I just, you know, I'm a historical minimalist in the sense that you
can't take everything in the Bible at face value. There's no newspaper editor walking around
following Jesus writing down every word he says. That just didn't exist. Right. And so how does the
text come to be? Well, this is what I'm going to be talking about tonight. How does myth and history
develop into texts? And so I'm here for the ride, brother. In fact, here we are. So look,
there's three huge areas of interest in when we get a text. How did the text get transmitted?
Right. How did we get it in our language? So how did it get translated? Where did it come from?
How did it get to point A to point B? That's transmission. And how did it get into the language
we're reading? Right. That's translation, transmission, translation. And it turns out all
of that affects interpretation. Or we just ignore transmission and translation. We reinterpret
how we want to reinterpret it. And then there we have it. Well, this is what's happened with
most modern texts. It's not just the Bible. We've dropped transmission and translation
all together. And we just, you know, Christians ever reinterpreted it. But guess what? That's been
going on for centuries. And Muslims have been doing that with the Quran. And Hindus have been
doing that with the Vedas, right? And so every generation reinterprets their texts. And after a
while, you lose how the text gets transmitted. You lose the process of the translation.
Well, in biblical studies, we have a really interesting problem. And that is
Bible scholarship begins with the assumption that the Bible began with fully literate scribes
writing fully literate history. That's how Bible scholarship Bible studies begins. This is a grand
error. And so, and so, of course, as time goes on, scholars get more critical and they say,
now, wait a second, we can no longer assume our a priori assumptions. But mind you, you know,
about the documentary hypothesis, right? The four different sources in the Old Testament,
you know, the Yahwehist, the priestly, the Deuteronomist, the Elohim, right? There's four
different, well, I agree with it to a point. The problem with that interpretation is it again
assumes that everyone's literate. This is all working within that somehow the writers of the
Bible, including the documentary hypothesis writers, all had libraries and books around them,
and they're all literate, and they're all trading back and forth with texts and comparing texts.
Turns out that that may have happened in pockets of civilization. In fact, that, you know, one of
the theories is that, you know, Solomon is the wise king. Solomon the wise, right? He has a tradition
of being the wise king going back to early Judaism. But if you read the Bible, he's a terrible king.
I mean, he has like one episode where he saves a baby from two mothers arguing over it. And this
is what, you know, Christians say, this is why he's a wise king. But if you get past that chapter,
everything else he does is cats and dogs living together. It's you forgot to mention
another positive thing about the guy. He had a thousand wives. I mean, come on, man. David falls
because, you know, he sleeps with Besheba. And of course, he murders her. Well, he makes sure her
husband gets killed. And then a whole platoon of soldiers, he makes sure dies to hide his sin,
right? So he goes from, you know, from adultery to murder and then mass murder. So that's,
you know, but so Solomon solves this by saying, well, I'm just getting rid of adultery.
Right? I just, I've got, I've got, I was the 300 wives and 600 concubines or whatever it is. But
but what he does is he's the first big city bill. Did he write the first comma sutra too? No, I'm just
okay. I actually have been to Kharjuraho, India. They have a whole temple dedicated to the comma
sutra. There's sex scenes all over the exterior. I've got, you know, this is why I got into mythology.
Right, right. What was I saying? You're talking about Solomon. Oh, yeah. So Solomon is the first
king that is, you know, the big city builder. And in that, in those days, to get notoriety and fame
amongst the other city states, you built a court, you built a palace, and you built the library,
and you collected all the traditions and all the scrolls from the surrounding area. This is why
Solomon is probably the wise king. He builds a library. It's, it may be, I mean, this is speculative,
but this is probably the beginnings of the writing of the Torah, where they start collecting the
traditions of the Israelite nation. Right. So that's one of the theories. I think it's a good theory,
because, you know, technically, if you read the Bible, Solomon is not a wise king. He's,
he sets up the kingdom for a fall. And of course, his sons completely decimate the kingdom. And,
and so, you know, the kingdom of Israel has two generations, David and Solomon, and then it's
cooked. And so it's, and neither of them were good kings. That doesn't mean they were, they weren't
morally good kings. They were competent, you know, David overthrew the Philistines, I mean,
according to the historical narrative. And so, you know, so one of the interesting things I like
about the Bible, I mean, so there's, you know, a lot of critics of the Bible, Derek, the Bible
canonizes its critics. Most people, if they were wrote about their first king, would not put any
bad information in it about the first king. The Jewish scribes said, David, here he is. He starts
out, he's, he's the perfect follower of Yahweh. He slays Goliath. He does everything right.
He becomes the king. He is righteous. He is the perfect person. Then he becomes king,
and he is God awful. And they do not pull punches. He sleeps around. He murders, and he's God awful.
Right? Most people wouldn't do that. Most people wouldn't do that. So there's all these critics
who say, oh, the Bible, it's just full of, you know, it's, it's ridiculous. And I would argue
differently. I would say that is, that's brilliant. That's brilliant. You are showing
the shadow side of your own religion in your most sacred texts. And I, and that is what makes
the Bible brilliant. And because it continually does that. It does not pull punches. I got asked,
doesn't the Greek religion do the same? I mean, in some cases, they seem like the gods even do
some things they, they seem like they're not quite benevolent at times or whatever, you know what
I mean? Well, so look, you know, polytheists have a way to deal with the shadow side of their culture,
because they have different gods and goddesses. They have gods of light, and they have gods of
darkness. And they're always on at the altar, right? And so that's one way to deal with the
shadow side of your culture. But then monotheism comes in. And, and pretty much you just focus
on the light with a monotheistic God. And that's problematic. You, you, you also have to focus
on the darkness. And the, the Jewish scribes did that in the writing of the Bible. In my view,
you, you, Israel does not come off as, as great. It comes off as a broken,
a broken people, a broken culture that they never get their act together. They're never
following Yahweh. And, and as a result, it's a mess. It's a total mess from beginning to end. So,
and, and quite frankly, I think that's a brilliant way. That's brilliant in my view, because that
keeps you humble. So anyway, it does. No, I can dig it. And people will also argue,
I've heard the argument of embarrassment to be used in this as evidence to kind of suggest,
would you really fabricate all that? I mean, or would you not think there were probably some
people who really did these acts and they're just laying it out there trying to be as honest as
possible? There were people who did these acts, right? Because this is what people do. Yeah. I
mean, I think a lot of the laws that are given, you know, are there because people were doing
the very thing the law was saying, do not do this. So yeah, Derek, history is a mess.
You know, yeah, religion is a mess because it's historical. It's a mess. People are a mess. You
and I are a mess. And I don't know. Oh, well, I'm a mess. Maybe, maybe you've just reached
Nirvana, personal Nirvana, individuated, but, but I, I'm going to have a, you know, a shot of whiskey
and when this podcast is done, just to get through. So all right. All right. So the bottom line is I
have, you know, three examples here, Pyramid Text, Epic of Gilgamesh, the Bible, the Pyramid Text,
where do they come from? Right? Suddenly, there are texts in pyramids. Before there was nothing,
right? And so you get all these texts, you know, the Pyramid of Venus is the first pyramid text.
And, and it's a fully complete religious tradition. And it turns out that fully complete religious
tradition appears like a thunderclap on the historical rising from the first dynasty.
What that tells us is the Egyptians didn't invent it. They inherited it. This stuff has been going
back into prehistory, right? And so it all comes from oral tradition, same with the Epic of Gilgamesh.
And, and I've already said the Bible was supposed to be different. It was supposed, it wasn't supposed
to originate in the oral tradition. In fact, most early Bible scholars said the Israelites had no
mythology. They had history, right? That's just incorrect. If you're an oral society and the
Israelites were, you have mythology, because that's what how oral mythology is simply the
oral narrative you're passing down. Ritual ritual is a somatic narrative, which repeats the mythological
narrative. Your temple cult is your hieratic narrative that repeats your ritual and your myth.
And so they're all layers of each other. And this is how oral peoples transmit information. So
we recognize that the pyramid texts are mythological. The Epic of Gilgamesh is mythological,
but somehow the origin of the Bible is supposed to be different. But that just doesn't respect the
religion of the Israelites, because the religion of the Israelites certainly exists in that same,
in that same universe. So I thought we would just give some examples. I'm just going to go through
and talk about some different texts from the ancient world and how different
oral and literate processes get imbued upon them. And then we'll end by saying, okay, now that we
see all of this in history, how can we reinterpret the formation of the Bible based off what we've
just viewed? So here I have these two little choral dancers. This is taken in Mexico. I think
that might be Montiel Bonham. Oh, many decades ago, Derek, scholars reading the Rig Veda. This is
India's oldest religious text. It goes back 1500 BCE. And so this is the oldest stuff they got.
Well, decades ago, scholars began noticing that a lot of the passages in the Rig Veda could not be
understood reading it as if there was a soul scribe writing it, that there were multiple
characters talking back and forth to each other. And they began realizing that what they were
reading was actually a sort of play, a drama, and that these were characters speaking to each
other and that the text had to be read in the context of viewing it as being performed by two
or more dramatic personae, two or more ritual actors who were performing the text. The text
was an afterthought, right? Something else was going on. This was a performance. Okay, well,
so they started to notice that in the Rig Veda and then they realized, my goodness, most of the
Egyptian funerary texts are written in this way. The Book of the Dead isn't a book. It's a ritual.
And the Book of Breathings, which is a later funerary text, is very often,
is basically notes telling the priest what to say and do at the different stages of the ritual
that they're performing as they're bringing the dead back to life. And so these texts are,
the text part of it is secondary. The ritual that was being performed was the primary thing.
And so now the question is, how do you understand a text where what you are reading is really just
the cliff notes and the prop list, because that's what it is. It's not like we're reading a full
Shakespearean drama where all the lines and characters are fully laid out in these ancient
texts, the pyramid texts, the epic of Gilgamesh. What we are getting is the narrative footnotes
and the prop notes. The main play never gets recorded. Okay, so then how do you interpret it?
And it turns out you can't. So let's just cut to the chase. We really don't know what the
pyramid texts are telling us. No Egyptologists can tell us because the main part of what it's all,
the texts are basically epithets, mythological, cosmological epithets, mythological scenarios
that are summarizing what the priest and the cult is actually doing, but the actual belief system
doesn't get laid out in a literate process for us. Okay, so our earliest texts come to us as
sort of disjointed because the majority of what we want to know never gets written down. So now
here's the thing. Hold on to your underwear. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The lament of Alexandria writes
that the of the Christian tradition that the most sacred things of deity are not for writing
but only for speech. Okay, that's what he says. The most sacred things of deity are not for writing
only for speech. Now if we take that literally, what he's telling us is there are aspects of
the Christian tradition that could not be written down. And what aspects are they? The most sacred,
the heart of it. That could not be written down. I was gonna say this is beautiful John because
I'll go so far not only with the Christian but the oldest or earliest we can find of Judaism or
not even Judaism. Absolutely. Ancient Israel because I talked to Dr. Bob and I'm sure you're
aware, I'm preaching to the choir with you, but I'm just saying it for our audience to remind them
because they've been following a lot of the shows. Dr. Bob talks about how a lot of these stories
don't necessarily, they weren't originally, they had to thread them together. They were not originally
together like Genesis one and two did not originally belong and they threaded these things.
And to me, that's quite interesting like lot one can look at lot and look at Noah and say what a
silly book because lot is the last guy on earth. He literally ends up with his two daughters. Okay.
Why didn't he just walk across the land to Abraham and take some girls over there?
It didn't make sense, right? And Dr. Bob said, listen, they held on to these traditions because
they were sacred to them. But lot is the end just like Noah is an end. And I actually threw out there,
I want your thoughts because you wrapped your head around some very old material. And
what do you think about the proposition that Genesis one is another flood narrative? It's not
what we've been told. It's literally the land drying up, the water is receding, the heavens
and the birds and the air, you know, all the animals are coming out again.
It's a flood narrative. And what did you say about floods? The number one guy who's ever said
anything about a flood narrative is you. That is where eternal life can be found. So there's
something very interesting there about the flood narrative. And I wonder, do you think Genesis
chapter one is doing that? Well, absolutely. So we could have a whole show on this. We'll do
another show sometime. The ancient cosmology believed that, you know, the world was created,
but oral peoples are cyclical thinkers, right? They're not linear thinkers because literacy
changes that. Oral peoples are connected to the cycles of the sky. You know, the seasons are
cyclical. So all time is cyclical, right? So if there's a creation, there's going to be
a destruction of the creation. So how does things get recreated? So you introduced the flood
narrative as your recreation narrative. And so it turns out flood mythologies around the world
are almost always associated with the creation stories of the culture, right? So that's just
not Christian. That's worldwide. The flood myth and the creation myth. And again, let me just say
the word myth doesn't exist in their vocabulary, these people who use them. That's our word.
We're telling, we're saying this is myth. And so it's a different category. Please know that
for them back then, myth was reality. It was the, it was truth and reality. We, we say, no,
no, it's not history is truth and reality. Myth is something else. That's not the way they saw it.
But the bottom line is in the Bible, you have three stories that are rooted in ancient
temple cosmology, the creation, the flood, which is destruction of water and the fire,
destruction of fire, which is the story of lot. And if you go through the text, you will find
parallelisms between the creation story, the flood story and the story of lot. So what that
tells you, what it tells me is that originally all three of those stories belong to an original
corpus of oral tradition. And by the time the literate scribes write it down, they retain it
and they've retained the parallelisms that run through them. But of course, it gets
historicized, right? We saw on the temple of Karnak how history got mythologized,
what the Jewish scribes are doing is they're historicizing the myth. And so,
and so, yeah, so the two year, to your question, the creation story actually descends from this.
It descends from ritual. The text we get is the prop notes. It's not what was really going on.
If you compare Genesis one with Exodus chapter 40, which is the day of the new year of the Hebrew
calendar, that's when they celebrated the creation. And what did they do? They set up the tabernacle
in the wilderness. And how did they set it up? Each step coincided with the day of creation.
So now you have to ask yourself, is the creation story a story about an actual
creation of the world? Or is it a story about the erection of the temple
and the power of God in that society? Because now the context is different. It's now ritual.
It's also cosmology. It happens on the new year, right? So, the creation story is a ritual that
has been turned into a text. And attached to that ritual was a flood narrative, which was turned
into a text. And attached to that was a fire narrative, which became our story of Lot. And if,
we could go through all the parallels, that would take two hours. But they're there. And it's clear
that those stories belong together in a single tradition, so a mythological tradition. Anyway,
my point with this slide is that the earliest texts weren't texts. There were songstances,
chants, choruses, and rituals. And when they get turned into texts, we lose the majority
of what actually was going on, right? And so, and so now, now it's really hard to pull the needle
out of the haystack, right? It just is. I mean, because we've lost the majority of the context.
And if we take Clements at his word, that the most sacred things of deity, we have to understand that
in the ancient world, to oral peoples, the most sacred things you do not disclose. We are completely
opposite. We, you know, in the academic world, it's publish or perish. If you're not telling
everyone what you know, you're no good. In the ancient world, it's the exact opposite. Publish,
and you will perish. If you tell people what you know, we'll kill you because it's sacred.
It should only be disclosed to the people who can handle it. Now, you can go on and say, well,
you know, that's a way to control the population, a way to control. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But
that's the way they treated sacred knowledge. Okay. And so the bottom line is, did that kind of attitude
towards sacred knowledge exist in first century Christianity, according to Clement, it did. And
we have other church fathers that also say that it did. And so if that's true, then something else
was going on amongst the first century Christians, besides just, you know, the gospel canons and the
letters of Paul, there was a whole ritual tradition. That was the most sacred part of the religion
that never gets recorded. Or maybe part of the narrative in the gospel is a narrative form of
that ritual system that got historicized, right? We'll talk about that in a second, because that
happens in the Old Testament. All right, here's another thing. Oral peoples can't memorize a
phone book. They can memorize a lot, but they're not going to keep track of every personal pronoun
that of all the people in their tribe, right? You quickly lose sight of that. And so if you are going
to remember a person or historical event, what happens is the person, the actual person's name
quickly gets changed to a typological name. The name in the myth identifies the person's role in
the story. Okay. And so we see this happen in the Bible all the time, right? Adam is the first
person created from the earth and his name means earth. He's named after the role he performs in
the story. Enoch is, okay, so we only get a couple verses in the Old Testament of Enoch.
If you go outside the canonized scripture, he's everywhere. In extra biblical tradition,
you know, in the Dead Sea Scrolls, Enoch has mentioned more than anyone else except Isaiah.
And so what that tells you is the Dead Sea community, Enoch was, besides Isaiah, the biggest guy in
the tradition. Okay. And so our Enoch literature, sadly, is very late other than his mentions in the
Dead Sea Scrolls, but the books of Enoch we have are very late. His name means initiate. And in every
Enoch tradition that has survived, what is he? He is the person, he's the culture bearer, right?
He's the Hermes Trismagustus. He's the Ioannes. He's the Gilgamesh. He is the person who's initiated
into the eternal world. He learns all the eternal order of things. And he brings and he teaches
people writing, books, astronomy, mathematics, farming, all the arts. So his name actually fills
the role of what he does in the narrative. As you go on down through the Bible, you find this
all the time. And so, again, a lot of people say, oh, this is just silly. Obviously, this is mythology
and it can't be historical. What I'm saying is, well, actually, this is what oral peoples do.
If there's a person they want to remember, they quickly drop his name and they rename them based
off what he did for them. Okay. So it's fair to say, I don't want to stop here. I just want to say
it's fair to say the person who actually existed in history may not be the name in the narrative.
Almost never. Okay. Right. So, I mean, Abraham is the father of many nations, right? His name
means father, right? And so, boy, that's a really good coincidence. These people keep naming their
kids based off what they do. Well, this is how you mythologize history. Okay. And so,
again, Eliotti says, we don't doubt the historical nature of the people in the epics, but quickly,
all their story becomes mythologized. It gets changed into memorable form.
Right? People, well, people probably, if people wanted to remember Derek Lambert,
you know, after a thousand years, your name would no longer be used. But whatever you did for this
society, somewhere in the narrative, that would be told. Along with a bunch of other stuff.
Trash man, Lambert. Along with a bunch of other stuff that you didn't do because there's pieces
from other people and there's cosmological things and there's religious things. And so, again,
you're pulling the needle out of the haystack. It's impossible to do. But these patterns exist.
Okay. And so, this is another thing that oral peoples do. And now we get into literate people.
Okay. So, we're not, so now, you know, they're using writing, but early literate people treat
texts differently than we treat them. And they treat history different than we treat history.
Modern history, with all of our cited sources, is a modern invention of the past few centuries.
That did not exist before that. So, the compilers of the Bible, they were concerned with history,
mind you. But they were encapsulating the history they were concerned with from oral tradition,
which has already been mythologized. It's already happened. Right. And so,
the rehistoricizing about one of the things you find in the Bible is a chiasmus, which is a way
that scribes wrote down their stories in parallel ideas. And so, here we have the flood story
out of the Bible. And if you go to here on the left, let me use my cursor,
chapter seven, eight of Genesis, you'll find that, you know, Noah has to wait seven days to enter the
ark. There's a second mention of him waiting the seven days. It rains for 40 days. The water's on
the earth for a total of 150 days. God remembers Noah and says, okay, I better save him. There's
a second mention that Noah waits for 150 days. Another mention of the 40 days. And then he sends
out the bird for seven days and another waiting of seven days. In other words, there is this
parallelism that the scribes have used throughout the biblical text, mind you, as a way to organize
the story. Now, here's what's really, so I have this another example, which is a longer chiasmic
structure of the entire flood story. So, here's one of the things that the documentary hypothesis
scholars did in the early days. They noticed this parallelism. And so, they sourced the first half
to one author and the second half to a second author. And they said they're splicing them together.
Well, essentially, that's wrong. This is actually a literate structure of these early texts. So,
but what that tells us is they've dispatched with
having reporting history as only the facts as their primary concern. They're using different
structures by which to record their stories. And this is one way in which they do that. And so,
the stories turn in to these sort of parallels, mere images of each other. And that's how the
scribes remembered them because most of these scribes, even though they're literate,
actually are still chanting the stories. You know, have you heard the term library carol?
You go to the library and they're the little desk that you sit in and they're called library carols?
Yeah. Yeah. The word carol means singing. And medieval monks literally sung the text they wrote
as they wrote them. That's why it's called library carol. Okay. And so, this kind of structure is
the way these scribes approached the material because it was the way they helped them organize
it and remember it. So, again, the primary structure of the text isn't on historicity. It's on how do
you memorize it and record it. Right? Now, are you following? Oh, yeah. Yeah. And so, this is good.
So, you get this kind of structure that exists not only in the Bible but in various ancient texts
around the world. And then, you get something really interesting. Scholars in medieval texts.
So, this is centuries after, you know, the birth of Christianity. This is through the Middle Ages.
Scholars are reading biographies of saints that have been compiled by medieval scribes
and they start noticing something. Saints that have similar names or the same name
will have remarkably similar biographies. And then, they start realizing, wait a second,
these monks who are writing these histories of the saints are simply borrowing from one text
to another. So, if there's a Saint Bartholomew here and there's a different Saint Bartholomew here,
they're saying, well, we know they're two different people, but they're both named Bartholomew and,
therefore, they must have been ordained by God to share the same roles. So, I'll pull this from
this narrative and I'm going to pop it right here because it's the same divine presence in both of
them. Now, of course, we don't think that way, but this happens through the Middle Ages. And that,
the point I'm trying to make is that the monks in the Middle Ages treated texts differently
than we do. They treated history differently than we do. And it's not that they were lying or cheating
or, oh my gosh, I'm having a brain cloud when you steal a text from another text. What do you
call that? You're talking about plagiarizing, plagiarizing. Plagiarism didn't exist. There
wasn't even a concept. It's simply how they treated texts. They saw in history if something
happened to one person and that person was born into the same town or had the same name or
similar things happened from one person to another, they saw a connection and they would often
sort of infuse the different stories across each other. And so, they would put part of the story
into this and part of that story into that. Well, again, we're pulling the needle out of the haystack.
That's a mess, but that's how they treated texts all the way through the Middle Ages. So, again,
this idea of modern historicity, everything being a historical blow by blow, that is modern and that
is recent. And then, I've been reading Dennis McDonnell recently, really like a stuff. And you
just did an interview with him a little while ago. Derek, good for you. But he has mimetic
structures that he is arguing and I think he does it brilliantly. What I can say is
that is how ancient peoples would treat a text. They would take a well-known text
that was considered to be great or sacred and they would construct another text based off the
structural spine of the text everyone knew. And that's all McDonnell is arguing. He argues,
for example, that Euripides-Bacchae, the play, was the narrative structure that the writers of
the Gospel of John used when they composed the Gospel of John. And so that there are these parallels
between the two stories and texts that are really odd and strange, but his argument is they're just
mimetically copying. Now, again, we would think, well, so none of this is history, but the historicity
is another argument. What I'm saying is people in the ancient world treated texts differently
than we treated. They treated history differently than we treated. Again, so our historical
sensibilities have evolved over centuries and over time. And so we want to believe that everyone
in the ancient past had the same sensibilities and were learning, nope, not even close. And it's
not that they weren't concerned with history, they were. But again, history gets mythologized,
history gets restructured, the stories get restructured, the stories get copied from one
to another, things are changing all the time. And it's not a conspiracy and people aren't lying.
Sometimes that happened. There's forgeries and there's all that sort of thing. But most of the
time this is just how information is transmitted in these semi-literate societies. And then sometimes
even these forgeries aren't as much as Dr. Ehrman's wrote on this about the forgeries in his book
Forged. Sometimes they're doing it in not a deceitful way necessarily, they're writing in the name
of someone that they follow or they might have an honorable reason for why they forged. But
I know that he wrote in his book that it was kind of frowned upon to do that kind of stuff.
I don't know if it was in pockets that it was permitted, but you know, maybe within the cult
itself it was okay to write in the name of or something, but it probably wasn't widely acceptable.
I don't know. Well, you know, I agree. I agree with you, Derek. In that, I mean,
there are people writing forgeries to make money. So there's that motivation. But there are also
people who will write a gospel for their community. And it's different from all the other gospels. And
they've, you know, what have they done? They've taken a mimetic structure from a core belief system
that they have, and they've transferred it over to the Christian gospel narrative. And now they
have a Christian gospel that they can believe in, right? I mean, there is no fax machine or email in
the ancient world. You have all these different Christian sects. Basically, every city was its
own Christian church. I mean, we get the writings of Paul because it was a mass, right? He's writing
to everyone saying, no, don't believe that. No, don't believe that. No, you got to do this,
because everyone's on a different page, right? And there are all these different gospels. But
here's my point. And that is this, human beings, we're not really historical by nature. We continue
to do this. It's interesting. There are two things that happen in social revolutions. You look at the
20th century, full of actually very dark grim social revolutions, a communism, Russia, Nazism,
Germany, a totalitarian regime in Japan and in Italy. They did two things in all these societies.
One first thing they did was they rewrote the histories. So they wrote a new gospel.
And so, you know, are they lying? Well, they wrote the history based off their view of it,
right? And so they create new enemies for the society to attack. And the history
is written to provide a basis for the authority of the regime, okay? So this is happening not in
the religious world. It's happening in the non-religious world, right? The 20th century was
the bloodiest century in history, as far as we know, almost 200 million dead by the time you
count all the wars. And most of this is from the shadow side of the pseudo-religious, non-religious.
There's lots of arguments to be made here, but the bottom line is the first thing a totalitarian
regime does when it wants to take power is it rewrites its history. It writes new gospel.
And that's just consistent. And so we're still doing this. And the second thing that the totalitarian
regimes did is they got rid of the church. So I know you have a lot of critics of religion in the
church on your channel. They either destroyed the church or they subsumed it. They walked in and said,
you're going to do everything we tell you to do or we'll destroy you. And many of the church said,
okay, so, you know, many of the Christian church became just a mouthpiece for the Nazi movement
because they were given the choice, do this or die. So, and why did they do that? And that's
because the church was the only thing that challenged the power of the state. These totalitarian
people came in and said, we are the power. And the church said, well, actually, God's the power.
And you answer to him. And they said, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope. That's not the way it's going
to work. And so just as a reminder, all social systems have shadow sides. There is bad religion
in every religion, everyone. There's not bad religions. There's bad religion in every single
religion. And there is good religion in every single religion. And I would argue this is,
you know, there's a bad way to do the state and there's a good way to do the state. And when the
shadow takes over, then, you know, the 20th century is an interesting lesson. The totalitarian regimes,
they rewrote their histories and they got control of the church really quick. And then they did their
things. So it's important to remember that. All right. And then just as we exit out of this way,
that at least medieval people approached the biblical texts, we have, you know, St. Thomas
Aquinas and his great Theologian, Summa Theologica, right up front say, how do we interpret the Bible?
This was a huge issue for him. And he said, well, the first thing you do is you do interpret it
literally and historically. But that only gets you so far. And then after that, you know, some of
these stories have to be interpreted in other ways, morally, allegorically and anagogically. So
he lists it all out. And so for centuries, this is how Catholic priests were taught
to teach biblical narratives. There was the literal or historical sense. There was the moral sense,
which is the way most people do it today. The moral sense is the devotional sense. So for example,
if you're teaching the story of Abraham and Isaac, the literal sense is you would say, okay,
Abraham really lived and he really had his son, Isaac, and God told him to sacrifice his son. And
so he went out and built an altar and he was ready to sacrifice his son and the angel stopped.
So that would be the literal approach. And then the moral approach would be something like, well,
what do we learn morally from this story? And I guess the teaching would be be obedient to God.
And God will make sure that it works out for you, right? The angel will come and stop you.
There are all kinds of moral problems with that story. If God tells you to sacrifice your son,
I think the first thing you should say is, no, God, I'm not going to do that. You do that.
I mean, I've heard it is a reverse moral kind of story that it was common to sacrifice humans in
that time. And it was trying to kind of like slavery, right? We talk about that's how we use
our morals from today. And that's correct. And that's not the approach we did a show on that,
I just released. But what is interesting about it is, if you're going to take anything good from it,
Israel at least changed their law and said, stop, we're not allowed to sell Israelites to Israelites.
We're not even there's no more of that. And that's correct. So there's a moral lesson here trying to
say let's better ourselves and son. And maybe that sacrificing your child is another one of saying,
don't do that. So that's one approach. And that is an approach that that's quite common is it's a
story that stopped human sacrifice, which it appears to have because the Israelites don't
practice it that we know of after Abraham. Right. And so, so that could be, you know, I actually
heard a really interesting Jewish rabbi teach the story of Abraham. Please tell me something new.
I love it. I loved his approach to it. And his approach was that Abraham failed the test of faith.
That God expected Abraham to say, no, I'm not going to do that. If you want my son, you take him.
I will not. So because Abraham in other places in the text argues with God, right?
You know, Abraham says, I'm going to destroy the city. And he says, no, no, no, no, no,
don't do it. If there's 50 righteous people, don't destroy it. And God says, okay,
if there's 50, and then Abraham realizes, well, there isn't 50. If there's 30, don't do it. You
know, he keeps arguing with God. And he tries to change God's mind and both Abraham and Moses do
this. And sometimes it appears they do change God's mind. So one of the one of the interesting
lessons, again, of biblical narrative is you can argue with God. You can disagree with God.
And so this rabbi was simply saying, Abraham, God expected Abraham to make the argument. I'm not
going to do that. But Abraham doesn't. And that disappoints God. So he sends an angel and mind you
after Abraham raises the knife over Isaac, God never speaks to Abraham again.
He always sends an intermediary, an angel. Before that, it's God in Abraham. But after
he tries to sacrifice Isaac, Abraham only talks to an angel. Never thought about that. So the
argument therefore goes that Abraham fails the test of obedience, because what God was trying
to teach Abraham was the moral conscience to stand up for the right, even against your own
religious ethos. And so I thought that was a brilliant take on the story of Abraham. But again,
that's a moral take. Yeah. And so it's a moral take. St. Thomas says, another way to interpret
Bible stories is allegorical. And so what do the Christians do with the story of Abraham and Isaac?
Isaac is Christ. He's the forerunner of Christ. He's the sacrifice, the only son. And so they
turn the story into the allegory of the Christian message. And then, the story is relating to the
end times, the eternal realm. And so I don't know how you would teach. We are all Isaac on the altar
of sacrifice, and we should be able, willing to sacrifice our own lives in order to inherit eternal
life. So there are four different ways to interpret the biblical narrative that St. Thomas Aquinas
talks about. And so you get therefore a wide variety of interpretations of different biblical
stories using these lenses. Now, again, the literal sense is the historical sense is presumed.
I don't think most of these Catholic priests went around saying this didn't really happen
historically. I think they did believe it happened historically. But a lot of the stories are hard
to teach historically. And so they had these other frameworks to say, well, I don't know,
but here's the allegory of it, or here's the moral of it, or here's what we will know about
heaven if we do this. And so they had these different ways of interpreting biblical stories.
And then something happens. The Protestant Reformation happens. And what happens in the
Protestant Reformation is a total rejection of Catholic authority, but also Catholic
interpretation of scripture. It's not just rejecting the pope and his priests and his priesthood,
it's rejecting the church and its rituals and its interpretations. And so after Luther,
what starts to happen is more and more there is a very literal historical sense imbued upon the
Bible narrative. And that's because by the time Martin Luther comes around, everyone who's making
the arguments are historicists, they're fully literate. The oral tradition has been completely
forgotten. They're not even aware of it. We remembered this as we started to find other
texts and everything I've talked about before, the rituals and the chiasmus, this is all learning
in the past century when we've started to find these old things and say, hey, wait a second,
there's more to this story, right? They didn't have any of that. And so the oral tradition was
forgotten. The rituals were forgotten. They rejected the Catholic rituals anyway and the
Catholic. And so we get really a strong historical interpretation of biblical story,
post-Protestant Reformation. Talking donkeys and talking snakes. Talking donkeys, talking snakes,
it all becomes very literal. The Protestant Reformation is the first social movement in
history that uses the printing press for social reform. The printing press is 15th century.
Century later, you get the Protestant Reformation and you get hundreds of thousands of pamphlets
flooding Europe, promoting Luther and the Reformation. And quite frankly, the Catholic
church couldn't combat it. I mean, this was mainstream media 16th century style, right?
They had their priests teaching at the lectern in the cathedral and suddenly everyone's got a
pamphlet. They just couldn't combat it. And so it's just interesting how these
print structures combine with the literate thinking that the rejection of the old,
everything gets reinterpreted largely as historical. So this is, you know, the beginning of,
you know, then in America you have the Great Awakening and this,
eventually you get your fundamentalist Christian sex. And so there's a historical process by which
people are taking biblical stories incredibly literal and historical. And it's a historical
process, right? So how do we interpret the Bible? Well, we have to remember that in the beginning,
for about a thousand years, Israel had a oral temple tradition that was constructed around
their myths, their rituals, their cosmology and their temple. The creation story is a byproduct
of that tradition. We get it as a fully historical, you know, scientific, you know, the creationists
believe it's a blow-by-blow account of how God created the earth. The earth is 7,000 years old and
right, it has nothing to do with that. It has nothing to do with that. This is a modern
reinterpretation that has completely dropped all these things that are on your screen here.
Many of the stories began as rituals. Many of the characters are typological.
They're structured around memory systems or literary patterns that drop from memory systems.
They are constructed from analogical roots or memetic sources, other sources, and there's
historical information as well, right? But this is sort of the matrix by which we get the Bible
and you simply can't just sit down and say, well, God said it and therefore this is what happened.
So that's just, that's the deal. So just to recap and then we can
wrap a trail off whatever you want. But to summarize,
I'm making some pretty important points. One, myth can contain historical content, okay? So
just because something is myth doesn't mean it doesn't draw from an actual person who's been
mythologized or an actual event who's been mythologized. But whatever history is in myth,
it doesn't long last the processes of mythologizing. And so the data gets turned
into what can be remembered. The historical content is since synthesized with cosmological
and ritual patterns. So like Ramses II, the history is analogized with the journey of the
sun through the underworld where he, this is his source of power by which he defeats the Antites.
So the story as told on the temple is in history, it's trans history, it's ultimate reality. How did
Ramses win? Well, he won because he is the initiate who knows the secrets of Amon and can walk with
the powers of the sun and has power over the enemies of the Egyptians. So this is the central
core system of our belief, it's what holds our society together. So this is how we're going to
tell the story, okay? So now the question comes and you already mentioned Troy, you know, for a
long time, you know, people didn't believe Troy actually existed. Well, if you read the source
material of Troy, there's still a lot of speculation, by the way. No, I'm not so sure the
city they picked as Troy is actually Troy, but what I can say is I think most of the characters
of Homer's Iliad were historical characters. You know, the story being told by Homer isn't a
biography of them, it's all mythologized, but the Greeks did fight the Trojans and so, you know,
which city and where and how it happened, well, we don't know the blow by blow account.
But what about Gilgamesh, right? We have this whole epic of Gilgamesh, that whole epic is mythology,
and yet he's found on ancient Kingsliths. And so if you ask, you know, near Eastern scholars,
is Gilgamesh a historical person, a lot of them will say, well, probably, because he's on the Kingsliths
and they put historical people on those Kingsliths. Now the problem with the Kingsliths is they're
also mythologized, right? Some of the Kingsliths live for thousands of years. It's like the Patriarchs
in the Bible, who live for centuries, right? The Near Eastern Kingsliths share the same patterns
of that. And so even though the Kingsliths themselves are being mythologized, but most people recognize,
yeah, they're probably still historical people. And so Gilgamesh might be an actual person,
but you can't prove it. You can't disprove it. You can't pull that needle out of the haystack. We
just don't have enough information, right? King Arthur is another example. Yeah, most scholars
will say, no, he's not a real person in history, but you got this tight knit group of scholars who
are good scholars who say, don't we believe he was a real person in history, right? And if you read
the, you know, romantic tales of the Knights of King Arthur, those tales have all been mythologized.
And guess what? Jesse Weston writes this great book in 1920 from Ritual to Romance, where she talks
about the rudiment storyline of the romantic stories of King Arthur's Knights comes from the
Greco-Roman mystery traditions, comes from those, same as Jesus, right? Comes from those religious
initiations because the Knights will undergo many of the same initiatory apparels and problems
that the initiates did of those religions. And so it's a fascinating book. So, but the bottom line
is King Arthur real. And again, you know, I don't have a pony in the fight. All I can say is I've
read scholars on both sides. And some scholars insist he's not real. And some scholars insist
that he is. We just don't have enough information. The whole point, though, is that just because
something is myth does not mean it's not historical. And very often there's historical seeds all through
it. But you can't read it as real blow by blow history, right? It's not a modern history. It's
mythologized. Fully sourced historical methodology is a modern invention. So I went over how even
medieval monks treated texts, they copied one biography into another, they thought that was
a legitimate thing to do. And so the way we look at history is really only a couple centuries old.
You know, it's, you know, Herodotus is trying to record history. There are Greek historians who
are trying to record what actually happened. But to get a fully sourced methodology of modern
history making is a modern invention. Okay, so that doesn't, it's not happening when the gospels are
written. People rarely fabricate history. They do rewrite it all the time. Okay, so this is another
problem I have with mythicism is it seems to me, and you know, you can inform me what Richard
Carrier believes, but that people are just fabricating Jesus. People rarely just make up stuff.
And oral peoples don't. To mythologize a thing is to tell the essence of the thing. So again,
using the example of Ramses, they're telling you the essence of the historical narrative
by using the religious mythology. That's what they're doing. And so I just might as well plug
what he, what I've picked up so far, I don't want to stop too far just to give you an idea.
I think he takes more of an angelology approach. So it's not that he's completely fabricated and
just fictionalized completely, that Jesus is actually an angelic figure in this narrative.
So he never was an actual man, the idea of him being an angel who comes down to earth. In the
narrative, he's a form of an angel, so to speak, who becomes Son of Man. You should really check
out his book. I'd love to hear your criticisms too, because I know you'll have some, but yeah.
Email me the book I need to read and I'll read it. Okay. Okay.
Anyway, the point is, is people rarely fabricate history, but very often the histories we get
are rewritten. And this happens even in modern times. Even modern histories eventually turn
into ideological and archetypal tales. I briefly mentioned, you know, just the 20th century regimes
who rewrote their histories. But, you know, it happens in my own lifetime when I went to
elementary and high school, the American founding fathers were demigods. When I got to college,
they were all evil old white men who owned slaves, right? The narrative had completely changed.
And I thought, well, no, wait a second, stop, which is, which is it, right? Are they, are they
demigods or are they wicked evil old white men with slaves? And, you know, so you can, but the
bottom line is, people are arguing over the archetypes in the history making all the time,
right? And so I, you know, what's really interesting is sometimes history gives us both,
right? Can, can a person be not a very good person and end up doing demigod kind of things?
Not sometimes history gives you that. Oh crap. You know, so, so, you know, I just, it's, but the
bottom line is history is, is difficult to construct. And every history is sort of an
invention of the historian. And, and so, you know, the point with modern history is you try
to source it as, you know, thoroughly at, because all your approaches are interpretations of the
sources and you have to admit that. And there are a lot of historians who don't say, and they're
just bad historians. And, you know, this is happening today. This picture, by the way, is
Glassenberry. It's the mythical resting place of King Arthur. That's why I put it in here.
So, you know, did King Arthur really get buried in Glassenberry? Did Joseph of Arimathea, that was
another tradition around Glassenberry that Joseph of Arimathea came and, and, you know,
taught Christianity? Well, see, these are all fables.
Probably with no historical context. But
so now, so now we take all this and, and I just thought we would go over some arguments. Was
Jesus historical? Do we have time for this or have we done? No, go for it. I, you know, I'm very
open to hearing, you know, I love learning and listening to this stuff. Well, I'm not, I'm not
going to say yes or no. What I'm going to say is, in the ancient world, myth is seen as what is
ultimately real and oral epistemology that sought to describe truth and reality. So what it's not
is fabrication. What it's not is fantasy. What it's not is fiction. Ancient myth was truth and
reality. We just do not, we do not think this way. This way of thinking is, you know, when we write
a historical narrative, we do not write it the way the Egyptians wrote Ramses defeating the
Hittites. Okay. But in oral societies, histories retain that way. By the way, there's a really
interesting story in the Bible, the Old Testament, that matches the narrative structure of the Temple
of Karnak, the narrative of King Ramses, almost blow for blow. Really interesting. What story?
Yes. And what story is that? The story of the founding of Israel, the story of Jacob. Now,
what happens with Jacob? He, you know, he steals the birthright from his brother. But then he, you
know, goes to Laban, his father in law, and he lives there for 20 or seven years or whatever,
three seven year periods. He marries two women, right? The Laban tricks him into marrying both
his daughters. And then he goes back to his people. But he's stolen the birthright from Esau.
And he's afraid that Esau is going to kill him for good reason, right? And so he goes back into his
land. And he comes to the Ford of Yabba, which is a, you know, it's a play on the name Jacob.
But it's this river and in all these underworld mythologies, the Book of the Dead, the darkest,
you know, hour of the night, you come to this impassable sea, right? That you have to cross in
order to re ascend out of the underworld. So Jacob comes to a river. It's the darkest hour of the
night. He says a prayer to Yahweh. An angel shows up. He wrestles all night. And at the rising of
the sun, he overcomes his interlocutor, sees the face of God and is given a new name. Okay. So
it is a remarkable parallel. You know, Ramsey's faces the Hittites, he descends with the sun,
says his prayer at the darkest hour of the night at, you know, at the Ford of the underworld,
reascends with the sun to conquer the Hittites. Jacob does the exact same thing.
It's the exact same historical structure or the narrative structure. And so what's going on there?
Well, in my view, what's going on there is what the Egyptians did with Ramses is what the Israelites
did with Jacob. The Egyptians analogized Ramses with the center of their cult, the Book of the
Dead, which they didn't call the Book of the Dead. They called it the Book of Life. But the mythology
and the ethos of the underworld journey that gives one power to rise and conquer the enemies of the
world. That's probably what's happening with Jacob. What we're witnessing is a narrative structure
that is analogizing the ritual structure of the temple cult, that the high priest literally went
through some sort of underworld descent, got to the Holy of Holies the veil, parted the veil,
rose with the sun, saw the face of God, sent the throne. This is a sort of priestly
initiatory initiation that gets put into a mythological narrative that makes it into our
story of Jacob. I would argue this is what's happening with the Exodus and Moses. And this
is what is happening. So all your founding, your creation stories and your founding stories
are your top candidates for the mythologies of the oral tradition, because those are the stories
that oral societies hold the most sacred. So they're going to be retained. So your creation stories,
so your early stories of Genesis are going to come from that oral cultic tradition. But then
your founding stories, the founding of Israel is also going to come from that tradition. And we get
three of those stories in the Old Testament. You get Jacob, who is Israel, he's renamed Israel,
you get Moses in the Exodus, and you get this really interesting story of the talking donkey,
Balaam, and that he is the foreign soothsayer that King Balak hires to curse Israel as they're
coming in to found their society and his land. And that whole narrative is actually a repetition,
in my view, of the priesthood cult narrative that you get echoes of in the story of Jacob,
you get echoes of in the story of Exodus. And that's because there's similar kinds of founding
narratives. And so there you have it. You have these really interesting parallels and narrative
structures that definitely come from the oral tradition. And if they come from the oral tradition,
they're going to be coming from a ritual cosmological temple cult. And so this sort of
thing is going to bleed into the narrative. Are you following that? Absolutely. Absolutely. And
the whole ritualistic approach is interesting, especially when you look at stuff like Genesis 1.
A lot of people are wrestling with this. Is this ex nihilo? No. But is it purely temple?
Here's my question. I guess this is why I think it's important to ask this.
There are people who are researching this that will say Genesis 1 is purely the setup of temple.
For example, like Margaret Barker's type of work where she is describing
temple language. We know it's temple language. It's obvious. But is not the world or the actual
creation also a temple, so to speak? It's temple language. And the temple that they worship in
is a microcosm of the macrocosm of the actual world we live in. That's correct. Oh, so you agree
that that would be like a, the creation account is macro, micro in one. That's correct. I agree. I
agree. Look, they have a completely different cosmology. So again, this is another show,
the mythological earth. If you read books on ancient Israel cosmology, they say the earth was
sort of this sphere where there were mountains around the perimeter that held up the sky.
And then there was the sky. And then God lived above the sky. And so they have this really
simplistic disc-like idea of how the universe was made and how the world was made. That's modern
scholarship. They're saying we think this is how the ancient Israelites conceived of the world.
I flatly disagree with it. You look at oral societies, the mythological earth is almost always
an integration of the horizon with the sky. The mountains are almost always constellations
that hold up the sky. And so you get the three tiers of the ancient world, the heaven above,
the heaven below, and the heaven in between, which is the material around the earth. And
all of that is sort of this astro-cosmological structure that they see with observational
astronomy. The circumpolar stars in the north is the heaven above, the stars below, the celestial
equator is the heaven below. And the earth between isn't the material disc you're standing on. It's
that plus the stars up to the ecliptic. And so it is a celestial zone. And so the bottom line is
they are conceptualizing things radically different than we are. And so the creation text is a story
about the creation of the world. But it's not patterned off modern ideas of creation and science.
It's patterned off ideas of your annual agricultural cycle and the power of the sun and stars and moon,
which give power to that agricultural cycle. And you're politicizing it because your priest is
your king. And so there's all these layers that are a part of it that constitutes the creation
story. All of that's dropped in Genesis one and two. I gotta ask you, is it wrong of me,
and I'm not a bully at all, but is it wrong of me to poke at that? I used to think 7,000-year-old
earth, literal ex nihilo. Do you find it wrong of me to poke fun at that whole idea, the way that
people mistreat an ancient text like this? I do it, and I don't mean it in a derogatory, but it
might come across that way on the show. I poke at stuff like this. Guys who think donkeys really,
literally talk snake. I mean, because I was that guy, I did not understand. Derek, that's the way I
was taught it. That's the way I was taught it, right? So growing up as a kid, that's how I believed it,
right? It's all literal, and it was all real, and the earth was 7,000 years old. I wasn't old enough
to start asking questions of where the dinosaurs come from, and they have answers for that, by the
way. I don't even want to start right now. There's some really clever ones. Go ahead, poke it.
I think we're doing a service here, John. That's the ultimate thing is I poke it,
but I also want to give something. It's not just poke. Here's a solution to your problem,
and we're doing it right now. With what you're doing, first of all, is groundbreaking. I love
the orality concept. I never hear anyone really, I hear people talk oral tradition this, oral
tradition that. They literally say it as a passing phrase. They never really take the time. Now,
don't get me wrong. I get probably why. Can they really say what they know is the oral traditions?
Maybe not all of it. You're trying to take literary structures and say, we can glean and
find evidences. I guess you'd say half a fingerprint in it that tells us there's some dancing,
there's some music, there's some orality in this, and they were transitioning, and that's
something I find beautiful with what you do. Look, I can't prove that the story of Jacob
is an analogized story that drives from the ancient cosmological temple. I believe that's
what it is, but I can't prove it. Biblical studies treat the oral, they're now very serious about
the oral tradition. That's a development in the last 20, 30 years. They're now very serious about it.
Having said that, they still treat the oral tradition like it's a literate one. They go
in and they say, well, how did they memorize and how did they repeat the memories and how did they
perform the memories? What I'm saying is, stop. It's not just about memorization of a text. It's
not a text at all. It's a completely different epistemology. It's a completely different way
to organize knowledge. It's ritual. It's a myth. It's cosmology. It's sacred space. It's all
organized around your agricultural cycle, what you need to do to live. It's a completely different
way to conceive of things. As a result, large portions of it, we can't reconstitute. It's
lost. I can't, no one can do it. You said it before, and I thought it was interesting.
God spoke and said. Orality, we go back to that. It's not just that this is a term being used by
you. You're suggesting, in a literal sense, something oral is what was really the depths
of the deepest you can get in these spoken rituals, not just written. They probably were afraid the
same way you would see people. I guess this is a bad analogy, but the way they jot out the name
God, they don't even want to speak it. You got to imagine how sacred some of these teachings were,
and Jesus said, I thank you, Father, that you have not revealed these things. I used to,
as a literalist, go, why would our Lord ever hide something? I didn't understand what's going on
here. I'm seeing there could be something in those passages. Yes, no. I agree. If you don't mind,
was Jesus historical? I want to throw something out there, because you know I love wrestling this
topic. I wanted to say it could all be myth and still have history there. There still could be
historical characters, and the whole thing could be what I call fictional. I don't mean it completely
hocus pocus, but meaning it didn't literally historically happen. There might be stuff that,
like you said, mimesis, what we're reading with Dennis R. McDonald that's borrowed from
Homeric epic, or the Bacchai with Dionysus, or whatever it might be. I'm looking at this narrative,
and I see things like, what can we know about Jesus with certainty? A lot of people go,
he was crucified, because it was a common used tool. Obviously, for insurrection,
the Romans killed Jews often in the first century utilizing this tool. Jesus is claimed by his
followers to have been crucified. He died, etc., etc., and that's a good case to be made.
What gets me in the depths here, and I'm not denying that, what gets me in the depths here
is how complex the authors must have been to use such memetic tools in the way they did. They were
the one of the most brilliant writings you can read, because they're not only borrowing from,
in my opinion, these books of Odysseus and his journeys with the Homeric epics, and
the Bacchai, and all these Greek poetic stories, they're taking from Old Testament,
and they're doing funny things with it, like the serpent that was lifted in the wilderness.
Well, for crying out loud, crucifixions, you know, if you were to take the crucifixion as a
lifting up, and Jesus goes into the wilderness, where's the wilderness? Jerusalem, and it just,
to me, it's like, if there was a guy and he was crucified, as it seems, if you're going to take
a historical approach here, in any way, they took an idea of lifting one up in the wilderness,
and were capable of utilizing that into a story where the serpent, or the curse that, I guess,
depending on how you want to look at it in the New Testament there, and if I don't know what you
would interpret the serpent in the New Testament, that might be the wise one, because a serpent was
wise. I don't know. I'm not an interpreter here that knows this. I'm interested in interpretations,
but he's lifted up in the wilderness. And in order to get to the land flowing with milk and honey
that Israel had to go to, which is the idea of the New Testament is giving, you had to pass through
and get bit by the snake. In a sense, you have to be through the initiate, go through this thing,
and that would be Jesus Christ. So, I see so much of the theology. I see so much myth. It's hard for
me, personally, going, this is what he did. I'm a skeptic on if there was a guy who literally
was crucified, and that that's really what this is based off of. I am open to the idea that many
Jews were crucified. Israel was known to be crucified often by the Romans. Israelites, I mean,
did they use that as a template? Or was there an actual guy? I don't know. It fascinates me. It's
good question. So, hope that kind of gives you something. And that's just one. I mean, there's
so many things and layers. It's hard. You know, well, look, there's, you know, the old saying,
there's the Jesus of history, and then there's the Jesus of faith. And, you know, the Christian
message is a message, in my view, that is the moral faith message. I, you know, I,
Derek, I'm three things. I don't shy away from it. I'm a scholar. I'm a man of faith,
and I'm a pluralist. And a pluralist is, you know, I accept all faiths, as long as they do good,
right? Fundamentalism happens when you stop becoming a pluralist. And it's not just evangelical
fundamentalists I'm talking about, right? When you cut out all the difference from other social,
I mean, look what happened to Muslim culture. They carried science through the Middle Ages
until they basically said that our way is the only way. And they stopped being pluralist
societies. They stopped taking in Christians and people from other cities and countries. And
they turned into a, you know, it's a theocracy, non pluralist theocracy. And that, that destroys.
And it destroys every time. And it's not only true for governments, it's true for religions. And it's
not only true for religions, it's true for governments and cultures. And so whenever you get a
subculture that becomes non pluralist, it starts dumbing itself down. And it never knows that
until it destroys itself. And, you know, just so people understand, you know, it's easy to make fun
of people who take the Bible completely, literally and historically. I get it. It's really easy to
make fun. And I sometimes I just find them, I don't make fun of them. They're just exhausting.
I'm like, God, really? Can you just step out the front door for five minutes and just look? But,
but having said that, it's not, it's not a structure of religion that does this. It's human
nature that does this, right? The secular world does the exact same thing. Sorry, but you walk on
some university campuses, and they are becoming so non pluralist, you have to have one ideology.
And it's actually a little frightening. Some of the corners of our society on the left and the
right on the religious and the non religious, wherever this kind of fundamentalist non pluralism
occurs, it's problematic and dangerous. So, you know, that's just my plug. I can actually agree with
you on that. I, that's my plug that when it comes, you know, I'm a Christian, and I,
I certainly don't take the Bible literally, but I exercise faith in God as, as a way.
Technically, you need very liberal in your approach, though. I mean, you're not,
and that's fair. I mean, we've talked about this before. We were talking about the,
the three days death burial resurrection. And I talked about, could this be a ritual
instead of a literal thing? And, you know, you're like, well, I believe it, but yes, Derek, it could
be. And I'm like, wow, someone who's of faith could even say that tells me the open-mindedness
that you have, even though you're not convinced of that, you know, you have your beliefs, right?
But that tells me that you're, I respect that. You see what I'm saying? Where I'm coming from
is there are people who are damning me. I don't even think your ideology has me or anyone going to
technically a burning like a fire type concept. But regardless, I'm not even worried about that,
because there are people who dam me and curse me and tell me, because I don't buy the, I have very
good reasons, John, if they were willing to just talk to me. I have very good reasons to say, my
friend, I'm reading literature. I'm willing to say it's beautiful literature. I'm willing to say,
I'm glad we don't follow a lot of this stuff anymore and that our culture has evolved and we
have progressed. And I'm willing to talk these things out with you and tell you why I'm convinced
this is another beautiful piece of literature, teaching wonderful things, but not literal in
my opinion. They can be taken as lessons and they can have historical root. They could have,
you know, there's a variety of things, celestial science, if you will, to some degree. I mean,
maybe it's not necessarily, but there could be celestial implications. And the last thing
that I'm not convinced of is that a man swallowed by a giant fish, that a man really split a red
sea, that, you know, man made a woman from his rib or God made a woman from God, from Adam's rib.
I don't buy that literally and have good reasons why I think that. And I wouldn't go to, and I'd
hope they would follow me on this journey. Let's check out the, let's go check out the Egyptian
method. Actually, let's go check out the Epic of Gilgamesh. How much of your own methodology are
you going to utilize? And that's what I love about you, John. You don't go to the Epic of Gilgamesh
and paint a different picture as you would. Do you see what I mean? You're open-minded. Even
if you follow a certain particular faith, you never push that and you're open-minded to say,
I'm looking at the Epic of Gilgamesh, like I'm looking at Genesis. I'm looking at these things
and going, guys, literature, beautiful literature, history, blah, blah, blah. Anyway, I rabbit showed.
Sorry. No, no, no, I'm 100% with you. 100%. I, in my own personal theology, the only people who
were damned are the Rosasirians and the French. Just kidding. You're terrible. You're terrible.
Oh man. No, everyone else is making it to heaven. And maybe the Rosasirians.
No, I'm just kidding. Look, I, you know, personally, God's a mystery to me. And that's the,
that's the joy of the journey is, I mean, and there's a different, you know, different ways
to define God. But I think a person who lives a good and just life knows more about God than
anyone else. So you're getting esoteric on me there, John. I'm not getting esoteric. I'm getting
pragmatic. I'm just saying if I'm, you know, like I said, there's bad religion in every religion.
There are Christians who do Christianity horribly, and it creates so much suffering and evil. And
there are Christians who do Christianity great, and it creates so much good. And, you know, look,
there are atheists who do atheism horrible, and there are atheists who do atheism great.
This is the pluralist in me. I, if I don't care what you are, I don't care if you're Jewish or
Muslim or Hindu or atheist or agnostic. I just care that you're just in good. And that you carry
a little wisdom with you to apply justice and goodness. And if that's what you do, I'm interested
in you. And I'm interested in your faith. And I, I want to learn, you know, let's sit down, break
bread, learn from each other. That's me. And that's always been me. And so that kind of person doesn't
stay with a 7,000 year history of the world long, because I'm like, yeah, I've, you know, I'm,
I'm now 12 years old. I'm ready to move on. So I thought we were done poking. I mean, no, just get
it out, man. No, just continue, sir. I just had to finish up here. But we are rabbit trailing all
over the place. You're going to have to edit this. I really enjoy it. No, I think this is, this is
me and you heart to heart just as me and you heart to heart, buddy. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And,
and that's the best stuff as far as I'm concerned. It's the best stuff. Listen,
historicity and literality are not the same thing. Something can be historical and you
don't have to interpret the text you have as literal. Okay, something can be literal and not
historical. Now, how's that possible? Well, again, that's very hard for our literate modern minds
to wrap around. But look, 90% of the teachings of Jesus are parables. Is he teaching historical
stories? Is the parable of the Good Samaritan a editorial from the Washington Post? No. So I was
just making the poise that point that historicity and literality are not necessarily the same thing.
You can have history that you don't take literally, you can have, you can have a story you can take
literally but not historically. Okay. Right. And the Bible's full of that. And then you've already
mentioned this, Derek, showing that narrative elements in the New Testament are not modern history
does not prove, disprove their historicity. If they're not historical as we define it, that
doesn't mean that there isn't historical truth to it. And the other point is showing that narrative
elements or structures are mythological does not disprove historicity. That we've just went over
that. That myth and history intertwine sometimes. There's a little bit of both sometimes in them.
And so these are all issues that make defining a historical Jesus not just straightforward.
You have the believers that say everything happened just as the Bible tells me. And you have
some critics that say it's all mythological and not historical. And both those positions
are just inaccurate playing. And then I again, I'm just my plug inventing a new religion without
strong historical roots, deeply unlikely. I there they're almost always there's a historical person
or event around which an innovation of religion occurs. And when I say almost always, I can't
think of an exception. You know, maybe there is. But there's a historical person or event
that occurs around which a new ideology begins to percolate. So every religion you look at in
history is surrounding some something important than that happened in history. And so I again,
I'm not a mythosist. I do believe there is a historical Jesus. The text we get isn't giving us,
you know, a literal historical account. But you know, you can make your arguments in the end,
I can't, you know, there's just, you don't get the sources you want from that era. So you can't
prove or disprove a lot of the arguments that are being being argued, you just can't do it. And I
run into this all the time in my work, because I deal with ancient mythology, where you you reach
the horizon of what you can know really quick. And after that, you start have to speculating. And,
you know, scholar, you know, sometimes I hate doing that. It's like, I, you know, I just can't
say one way or the other. But by the guess, it would be this. Right. But I know as soon as I make
that statement, there's going to be a dozen other scholars over here or all sons of bitches,
who are going to say, oh, you can't say this, this, this, this. And they'll try to destroy you.
And, you know, that, you know, that's what people do. But, and so you really want to have a firm
foundation. But a lot of these issues, you don't get that. Right. And so, and so, you know, that's
just the nature of, that's just the nature of the beast. You know, John, I don't think we need to
rabbit trail into anything more. I think we touched on a lot. And first of all, I want to
recommend everybody to get the book because your, the perception that you are showing,
it really does make a lot of sense. It's not too far off from what a lot of the scholars
are saying, but you take an interesting route, unlike what I hear from other scholars. Does
that make sense? With the orality concepts, we can't think like them. And I think if you really
want to have a grasp on what John's saying, and a lot of this to really get roots in it, I think
your book is extremely important to understanding that. And we've had long enough talks that I think
I've gathered a lot of what you're saying. But I still need to dig deeper with you. And I think
more episodes we can get for people who haven't got the book who are interested in learning more on
this. We can go into specific stories. We can go into other things in the future. I don't think,
you know, I'm going to keep my research on the historicity of Jesus, of course. I'm also looking
for people on the historicity of Buddha. I want to get Buddhist scholars who are not just Buddhist
monks, but like scholars or maybe religious in the group, because Dr. Price told me that there's
the same argument going on in the Buddhist circles. And then Robert Spencer recently,
I watched it. That's what I was going to say. I'm trying to find more cool, interesting things
like that. Different dynamics. You have friends in the scholarly world. I'd love to interview them.
Your work, we're not even, we haven't even, guys, we're on the Titanic and we just left
the boatyard. Okay. We're not even near the tip of the iceberg. That's, that's a, we got a long
way to go. This journey ends with everyone dying. We're on the Titanic. Get a different boat. Get a
different boat. Hey, at least you're not sinking into a lake of fire. Okay. So look, it's all ice.
Okay. You know, I heard in Inferno, in Inferno, in, in the Latin is where we got hell and is
actually a freezing place, not a hot place. Someone said something like that. I was like,
what, this is weird. I really enjoyed this presentation. I learned a lot. There was a lot
there that I've never thought about. And I really enjoyed your parallels to showing
interesting things with the book of the dead. You said it was called the book of life.
Yes. To them. To them. We call, why do we call it the book of the dead? Because it's buried with
the dead. So the, you know, archeologists said, here's a book is buried with all the dead will
call it book of the dead, but it's the book that taught them how to live, right? So it's literally
the book of life for them. Wow. A way to live. And so makes me think of the biblical tree of life
book, a lot of the, you know, names jotted in the lamb's book of life, that kind of stuff. I don't
know if there's some connection, but yeah, might know, like Derek, if I mean, 10,000 years from now,
if Christianity completely disappears, you have some future archeologists dig up a old
Christian church that somehow survives underneath the rubble, right? And he has no texts, right?
He might have a couple of pages of a Latin mass that he hasn't translated yet. And all he has is
a broken altar above, which is this guy who's nailed to a cross on the wall, right? How is he
going to interpret that religion, right? He's going to say, well, these people worshiped a guy
that they nailed to a cross, and they were a death cult, right? Right. And so this is how,
this is how, so this is how we do it when we look at these ancient religions, such as, you know,
the Egyptian religion, no one really knows what, what is really going on, because we don't have,
the majority of the context was oral, and that's disappeared. And so we like to think that, you
know, we've got a good handle on it, we've got these texts, we got the pyramid text, we got the
Book of the Dead, but I, you know, quite frankly, some of the most renowned Egyptologists will admit
even the most basic things we do not understand when it comes to that world. And so, and that's
just a fact. So I see a lot of phallus. So when I see that, I start to wonder, you know, and then,
of course, you know, you got Horus, and then you got Osiris, and Osiris is missing his phallus.
Yeah, we'll talk about this one later, man. There's a lot of phallic imagery.
But that goes all over the place, all these different places. John, thank you so much. How
can people get ahold of you? Or do you give that information out? No, you know, I put out a website,
johnlanwald.com. But then a couple months ago, it got hacked. And I haven't, I haven't put it back
up yet. So that's crazy. And who's hacking it? Who am I? Yeah, like, what are they trying to do? I
don't understand. I have no idea. So here in the next month or two, that'll be back up and you can
see all my work, my archaeo astronomy work with, you know, Native American rock art.
I have a series called Myth in the Bible on my website that we're just going over things that
we've already talked about, such as on this show. You know, I travel the world, all the pictures on
that slideshow tonight I've taken. So all those, all those pictures, I travel the world to different
sacred sites, studying them, learning them, sometimes taking tours with onto them. And so
when that gets back up, great. If not, look me up on Facebook. Ping me. I'll, you know, I don't
bite. Well, I'll have to look at the comments on this. We'll see, you know, maybe you want to
invite me back. But are you kidding me? Anyone who I don't honestly, I don't, that's not how we
whirl here myth vision. If they're too bad, I'll just silence them. That's, you know, they won't
have any say in the, oh, no, no, don't silence. I like reading those. Yeah, there's certain ones,
though. Oh yeah. Well, yeah, that's true. That's true. There's some that you have to say, okay.
Yeah, okay, look, Satan, shut up. No, I'm just kidding with you. But no, I really appreciate that.
Guys, go down to the description. You guys see the Amazon affiliate link. You can get the book
there. I think it gives us like change on the dollar for purchasing a book through the Amazon
affiliate link. Or you can go to his website when that is up and running. But definitely check that
out and be on the lookout because we're going to have him back on the show. I want to talk about
some of the rock stuff that I think is hidden. It's somewhere it's lost. Oh, I got a great.
There was a recording that we had and if you've made it this far, you deserve to know. So I just
want to say we did a three hour recording. And John decided to take the hit man off that was
going to come after me. But we did a three hour recording and I had to reboot my computer. I
lost all of the recording. And I was disappointed to even mention it to him. And he actually was
kind enough to come back on the show. He talked to God about me not going to hell and stuff like,
we're good. We're good now. So you're not a Rosa Syrian, are you? No. Okay, but then you're good.
I'm good. Okay. No, but seriously, let us know if you want to hear something from him. And if you
have any questions, message me. I have direct contact with him. I could try and find out for you
or we can set up a show and we'll try to answer your question particularly. So John, you got a
great set up there. Really appreciate you joining me again. And any last word?
Oh, keep the faith, buddy. Right. Whatever that is, do good and be just. And love your show. You
keep it up. Keep up the good work. Keep it open-minded. That's the way I do it. And it seems
to be the way you do it. I enjoy it. So, you know, keep it up. Thank you. Appreciate it.
I will do that. And ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
