If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, there are different
tiers as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much.
Don't forget to like, subscribe, share and comment.
With intros like they say and so on where you can tell they're not trying to say this
is what really happened like Herodotus and others.
And then there is straight myth slash fiction like Lucian and Vile and the Odyssey and so
on.
And he says it's clear if you're not the slave to religious dogma that the gospels
are fiction.
They have the structure of various fictions and he goes into Northrop Fry and Prop and
other structuralists and all that.
And he says it deals, there's an unremitting flood of implausibilities and natural impossibilities.
And he goes into how what Litwo is doing sort of compromises with the growing mainstream
of conservative retrenchment resulting from the society of biblical literature flinging
wide the gates and letting anybody in.
And that as a result it's a weird hybrid of actual scholarship which is more and more
in the minority and dogmatic apologetics and all that.
And he says that people like me and Carrier and others are not given a voice at the table
and should be and so forth and it's really, really powerful and interesting.
Wow.
And who is this again?
Richard C. Miller.
And he's written for the journal Huyercurse?
Yeah, he got in touch with me some months ago and...
Didn't need to get him on Mythfish.
Oh yeah, oh yes.
And with you even.
We could do a collab.
Now does he live near here or is he...
I don't know.
We'll do a remote online.
I think that'll be a good show, you, me and him.
And you because you've read his material thoroughly I would want to read it before we do a show
but I think you can probe out of him things I won't be able to do because I want to bring...
You can tell my shows get better when I know what I'm talking about more than if I'm coming
at it completely surface level because you can tell when I ask a question for example
and I'm not aware of the depth of that, I guess that research there, it sounds like a
basic level.
Like what does that term mean?
You know, that basic.
Where you...
That's good because that's why I do the human Bible as a kind of simpler thing because many
people have said with the Bible geek that it's too advanced and that a lot of the people
that send in questions are that far along so they know what to ask but others are just
lost though they listen and like it.
And so I started out with features like Up to Speed where we go into what are the synoptic
Gospels and stuff like that.
