We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want you to do,
go down in the description,
check out the upcoming webinar
on the Nativity of Jesus Christ.
Is it fact?
Is it myth?
Is it legend?
Did it really happen?
What's going on?
All of this will be covered.
There's gonna be an all day webinar
with Dr. Bart D. Ahrman.
And ladies and gentlemen,
the myth, the legend himself is here joining me today.
How are you doing?
Doing well, thanks.
Yeah, doing well.
Looking forward to this webinar.
It's gonna be an all day affair.
Four lectures with Q and A after each one,
all day, December 5th on what,
did the Christmas story really happen?
Oh my God, it's really gonna be really interesting.
I'll be honest, as a kid,
I really enjoyed Santa coming more than I did
the Jesus birth, but either way,
I'm not being funny, I'm dead serious.
Like, wasn't that serious
of a religious household grown up?
But Dr. Ahrman, I'm gonna do a little spin here
because I think it's related to the topic,
but I don't wanna give away too many goodies.
I want everybody to go and join us in the webinar
to get their Christmas present from Santa Claus.
And there you go.
So I wanna talk about three to five
of your favorite contradictions.
They're all subjective.
This is your decision.
And we'll just start with one and work from there.
I'd like to pick three to five major contradictions
in the New Testament that you really enjoy.
Okay, I'll tell you, first one,
I'll tell you is the one that made me realize
that the Bible's not inerrant.
If people have read my stuff,
they might have heard this one,
but in Mark chapter two,
so let me just say, I was a fundamentalist.
I thought there was no mistakes in the Bible of any kind,
any kind, no contradictions, I could explain anything.
And so like fundamentalists today still can.
So in Mark chapter two,
Jesus' disciples are going through the fields of grain.
It's a Sabbath, they're hungry.
They peel off some grain and they start eating it.
And the Pharisees, you see them doing it.
I guess Pharisees are in every corner
and Galilee watching to see people eating grain on the Sabbath.
They're doing the, and the Pharisees get really upset
and they say, Jesus, your disciples are harvesting grain
on the Sabbath, you can't do that.
And tell them to stop.
And Jesus says, look, don't you remember
what King David did when Abiothar was the high priest?
He went into the temple and ate the show bread
with his people, with his men, because they were hungry,
even though only the priests are supposed to eat it.
Sabbath was made for humans, not humans for the Sabbath.
And so, so you have the story.
So I had this class at Princeton Seminary,
a Greek interpretation of Mark.
My first semester is like, we studied Mark in Greek.
And at the end, we had to write a term paper.
I wrote a term paper on this passage
because this passage says that this took place
in the Old Testament when Abiothar was the high priest.
But the Old Testament says that it took place
when the Himalek was the high priest, Abiothar's father.
So I wrote a 30 page paper arguing that, in fact,
even though it says that Abiothar was the high priest,
it means that Himalek was the high priest.
And so I had a very complicated argument, you know,
and with the grammar of the Greek and style,
so 30 pages later, boom, it really was the Himalek
and Jesus knew it.
So at the end, my teacher was very pious,
very pious and very devout Christian,
but he wasn't the fundamentalist,
but he was very devout Christian.
And he liked my paper, gave me an A on the paper,
then at the bottom he said,
you know, maybe Mark just made a mistake.
And I thought, that would be easier than a 30 page paper
that's dancing around the problem.
Yeah, okay.
So once I realized that, it opened the floodgate.
After that, I started finding all sorts of contradictions.
And the thing is that sometimes they're big
and sometimes they're little,
but if somebody's a fundamentalist,
the big ones don't bother you
because you can explain those away.
Those are easy.
It's the little ones that you think, oh God,
how do you do that?
For example, here's another favorite one of mine.
In the Gospel of Mark, I think it's chapter five,
there's a man who's a leader of a synagogue
whose daughter has gotten sick.
And he comes up to Jesus and he says to Jesus,
my daughter's sick and could you come heal her
because she's gonna die.
And Jesus says, okay, so Jesus starts going to his house.
And before he can get there, he gets interrupted.
Another thing happens, somebody bothers,
and he has to deal with this other thing.
And by this time, the man's daughter's died.
So he gets there and it's too late, she's dead.
Ah, I'm too late.
Jesus says, don't worry about it, I'll heal her.
And so he goes into the room, she's dead, she's up,
and he raises her from the dead.
That's Mark's Gospel.
Matthew's Gospel says that what happened is,
this guy's name is Jairus, by the way,
his name is Jairus,
so this is the story of Jairus's daughter, J-A-I-R-U-S.
And so in Matthew, it says,
this man Jairus comes up to Jesus and he says,
my daughter has just died, can you do anything about it?
In Mark's Gospel, she wasn't dead yet,
for the whole point, she wasn't dead yet.
But in Matthew, she comes up, my daughter died, can you do?
So Jesus goes and he raises her from the dead.
Okay, but it's like, which was it?
Couldn't be both.
So when I was a graduate student,
I started to leave my view of the inerity of the Bible
that it was infallible.
And we had a visiting scholar from Scandinavia,
who was a very famous scholar who thought,
he had his ideas about things,
and who thought that there weren't mistakes
in the New Testament.
So I said, okay, so you guys are the story of Jairus,
you know, like she's sick and then she dies.
And the other one, she's dead ahead of time.
So I said, which is it?
And he said to me, oh, he said, it happened twice.
First one, first time it happened, the girl was sick
and then she died.
And later, like in a later episode,
she had died again and she was like, oh my God,
are you serious?
Oh man.
And so I'll give you the third instance I'll give you
is one that I just recently,
I thought was really, really quite good.
A year and a half ago, right before COVID hit,
in February, 2020, I was in Chicago
at a Christian apologists conference.
So as you know, Christian apologists
are defenders of the faith.
They're conservative evangelicals or fundamentalists
who think that, you know, they can defend everything
in the faith that it's all logical and makes sense
and they can argue for it.
This conference was on whether the Bible's contradictions
in it or not, whether the Gospels have contradictions.
They had three speakers there
who are all very conservative evangelical apologists
and they had me because they wanted to hear
another side of the story.
And, you know, they wanted to see what they were up against.
And so I went, I wasn't sure what was gonna happen.
I don't know, this may not be good, but it was great.
I had a great time.
They were really nice.
They were pleasant.
We had jokes, we laughed.
And there are a group of students there
from Moody Bible Institute where I had gone
as an out of high school.
So I was like, I was a graduate as a fundamentalist.
And so I said, oh my God, let's have lunch together.
They said, yeah, great.
So we had lunch and we told stories.
It was a great time.
But so we're having this thing.
And I lay out the argument of why, you know,
why there are contradictions
and these other guys are saying, yeah,
now they are contradictions.
Michael Acona was one of the presenters there
who's one of the leading apologists today.
He's a serious guy and he has a PhD in New Testament studies.
And so he's, but he's written books
defending the Christian faith,
including why you have these discrepancies
seem to have discrepancies in the gospels.
His view is that you do have these differences
in the gospels, but it's because the gospel writers
are following standard protocols
for how you write biographies in the ancient world.
So authors like Creepark, for example, will write a biography
and he takes certain licenses
and he does things in a certain way
because it's just how you do a biography.
And so Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, they did,
they wrote biographies.
So, you know, they're just following the biographers
do things and so places that looks
like you had discrepancies.
So we give our talks and Mike, this is the end of my thing.
And afterwards, the moderator gets up
who's also a conservative evangelical and he says, okay.
So the four of you, I've got a question.
I want you all to answer this.
In Matthew's, in Mark's gospel,
Jesus sends out the disciples on his mission
during his ministry to go out and heal the sick
and cast out demons.
And he says to them, don't take a backpack,
don't take extra sandals, don't take any money,
don't take a staff, you know, just go.
And so there you go, there you go.
In Matthew's gospel, Jesus sent, same to episode,
Jesus sends them out, go to heal the sick, raise the dead
or cast out demons.
And you know, don't take a backpack,
don't take extra sandals, don't take any extra money
and take a staff.
Just the opposite of what Mark says.
So the moderator says, okay, which did Jesus say?
And I said, well, it probably said neither
because I don't think it's a story.
I said, but I said, you know, Mark says the earlier one.
So Mark says, don't take a staff message.
It did take a staff.
It's a contradiction.
And he asked the other two,
the other two kind of reconciled, they hemmed and hot
and come figure out some way.
Oh, maybe it happened twice.
You know, they kind of say, we got to Jonah.
Michael, Jonah says, well, Mark is right.
He said what Mark says, don't take a staff.
Okay.
And then the moderator says, okay, to everybody,
do you think Matthew's account is inerrant?
I said, no.
The other two said, yes.
And Lacona says, yes, it's inerrant.
I said, Mike, you just said that Matthew contradicts Mark.
It's just the opposite of what Mark says.
Mark says, don't take a staff.
Matthew says, take a staff and that's the opposite.
So, but now you're saying it's not without,
it's not an error.
And I said, what would it be an error
if the contradiction's not an error?
He said, well, but Matthew, Matthew meant to change it
because he's following the protocols of writing biographers.
So, so he knew what he was doing.
So he changed it.
Said, look, Mike, it doesn't matter if he meant to do it.
Some people mean, mean to lie,
but just because they mean to lie
doesn't mean it's not a lie.
If you really make a contradiction,
it's still a contradiction.
Yeah, how would that work if you walked in the door
and your wife at 3 a.m. goes, where were you?
I was not at the strip club.
Yeah, you know, like.
No, I was in bed with you.
I was in bed with you.
What?
Oh, but it's not a contradiction
because I know it wasn't right.
So those are three in my face.
Those are the three.
Hey, that's legendary.
Dr. Park, the airman, thank you so much.
This has been fun.
I hope you enjoyed those three contradictions.
And do not forget to go to the webinar,
December the 5th, all day events.
Sign up now in the affiliate link down in the description.
You'll get a discount if you do.
Trust me, that's the way to go.
And look, I look forward to seeing you guys for Christmas
because I can't wait to celebrate
the mythological birth of Jesus.
How about you guys?
We will see some contradictions.
Thank you so much.
My pleasure.
Thank you.
