Help MidVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Welcome to MidVision Podcasts, Jason.
Folks, ladies and gentlemen, he's going to be answering a bunch of different topics
and discussing them.
We're going to have a discussion, but you've been studying for quite some time.
So before we get into the first question, I think it's important to kind of get a little
background on, you know, you know, the information you've learned, like how much time have you
put into this and stuff, and you have a podcast.
So give us a little bit about you before we get into this first question.
This will be our first video on introducing you on in-person interview with you that the
quality is going to be obviously much better.
So, yeah, so I got into researching the Bible about 15 years ago.
I had read the Bible as a Christian, and it sort of de-converted me.
It just, it read too much like mythology, which I loved.
And so my, as my belief left, it kind of left a hole in its place, and that was just this
desire to understand this fascinating book.
And so I began rereading the Bible while reading books about the Bible, because it was sort
of like a knot.
I had to untie it.
I had to figure out what this book was about.
And unfortunately, that knot is about the size of the planet.
You cannot untie the knot.
You can start working on it, but you'll never finish.
And which I guess is a good thing, because it gives me, you know, decades of work to
do to keep my mind occupied.
And so I've been working at this knot for the last about 15 years, just reading books,
coming to a better understanding of the Bible as a whole, or of different parts of the Bible,
different stories, you know, and so forth.
And the more I read, the larger the knot becomes.
And so that's basically just what I've been doing is finding new authors to read, new
approaches, new points of view, which all gives a deeper understanding of this fascinating
collection of stories that is so intricate and multi-layered that it'll never be untangled.
But I enjoy it.
It's a puzzle I get to work on constantly.
And so, yeah, that's basically how I came to the topic.
And the more I learn about it, the more I study, the more frustrating it becomes, but
the more I love it.
It has consumed a significant portion of my life.
And the deeper of an understanding I get, the more, you know, I guess engrossed I become.
And somewhere along the way, I was just, I guess, prattling my girlfriend's ears off
about all these things I was learning, and I guess to save her sanity.
I thought, well, what if I just prattled to other people instead?
And so, one day, while I had my truck parked in Cancacay, Illinois, I walked three miles
to a Best Buy.
I bought a microphone.
I walked back to the truck, because I drive a truck, and it's way too big to fit in the
Best Buy parking lot.
So I went back to the truck, I pulled the curtains, I set the microphone up, balanced
precariously on my steering wheel, and made a mess of recording my first episode.
Do not listen to it.
It's horrible.
Actually, I don't listen to the next 10 either.
And I just, I kept talking about this information that I had gathered, all the different fascinating
things I had learned, and I just went on and on and on.
And doing that eventually kind of became a thing.
I started doing it every single month.
I had the intention of just doing the book of Genesis, which is why the podcast is named
Dragons and Genesis.
It was going to be the mythology and the book of Genesis.
By the time I finished Genesis, I had followers, which I thought was weird.
I had no idea why anyone would want to listen to an atheist talk about the Bible.
But they did, and they expected more.
And so I had to keep going.
Now it was like four and a half years ago, and I'm still stuck doing it.
So I guess I have to do the whole Bible.
I can relate.
There's a tension in the field of research with this.
I think what fascinates me, I prefer to stay out of the drama, Jerry Springer mess of things.
But I'm with you when I research, when I study, and I purposefully view opposing views.
I purposefully investigate various topics.
There is friction and emotion.
Even if you're not a believer, there are emotional baggage attached to certain concepts and beliefs
about this.
You're an idiot if you don't think Jesus Christ literally did exist historically.
The consensus view, there's various other topics too that become like, what are you talking
about?
And there's tension even in that type of field.
And so I try to remain outside of that.
I don't spend my time bashing Christians.
I don't spend my time trying to attack people's views.
MythVision is a place where you can come and offload your ideas if they sound reasonable.
And this is somewhere where someone can go and go, I get the whole spectrum, right?
And that's something you do on your dragons and genesis that I think is amazing is you're
talking about Enochian particulars right now that you're not, like tell me another podcast
that does this.
Much respect to that.
I can totally relate.
And when I heard about you, I thought, okay, let me hear what this guy's got to say because
someone on my podcast, on my show, you know, popped in and commented a couple different
people.
You need to get this guy dragons and genesis.
I'm like dragons and genesis.
Who's that guy?
Who the heck is this?
What is this?
You know, and I didn't know I'm thinking a lot of people post strange stuff in my comment
section.
Sometimes young earth, you need to interview a young earth or this and that is like, I'm
good on it.
Not really interested.
But I looked and I don't know how I got ahold of you exactly.
What was it that I did to get ahold of you?
I can't even remember.
I got like a random message on Facebook.
Okay.
That's right.
Yeah.
My Facebook page got like a random message.
It was funny.
It was, I was actually remember that I was sitting in a place in Arkansas watching your
interview with Russell Camerican and I get this alert and I'm like, what's this?
And I'm like, wait, what?
And so the guy on the left side of my screen is messaging me on the right and I'm like,
okay, awesome.
Yeah.
Russell is interesting.
He's doing another book right now on.
Oh, that's fantastic.
Yeah.
He's finishing it right now.
He's already finished actually.
They're editing and publishing.
Who knows how many months it will take, but he's dealing with Genesis one through three
and he's going to take an approach I've never heard where in Plato's, I can't remember
exactly where, but he argues Genesis one through three is actually coming from the Hellenistic
Plato world instead of a Mesopotamian ancient Near Eastern type of worldview.
It's coming from the Greek world.
Now don't get me wrong.
He doesn't deny.
There's, you know, Mesopotamians obviously like Genesis 11, Genesis six and the flood
narrative coming from right, right from the Gilgamesh epic and all that.
But I'm interested in seeing that and that see how you're piqued interest.
Yeah.
Everybody see his eyes.
His eyes flicker.
There's, there's something fascinating though, because you own this whole Platonist view.
They have this idea that there's like this almost like this spoken word that kind of
does this stuff.
And while there are striking similarities between Genesis one and the Anuma leash from
Babylon, I mean, it, it definitely follows this, this pattern, this order.
I mean, it's, it's late.
It's the same plot outline, but in the Anuma leash, the gods are like literally getting
into fistfights with giant dragons and they're, they're dismantling their carcasses and using
that to set up the firmament and everything else in Genesis one, they're not doing that.
It's almost like a subtext.
You're meant to understand that that's sort of what's going on.
But the whole thing happens, like the, the God isn't really present.
It's like way off like behind the universe.
It's behind reality and the whole thing is done through this weird spoken word and it's
like,
Very platonic.
Yes.
Very, very.
And I've, I've sort of noticed that, but I'm like, okay, maybe that's just a little bit
of the influence, but if you take on this whole, this whole worldview, then you can take
something like the Anuma leash and completely reformat it.
That actually, that actually makes sense.
Well, I love to hear what's American to you.
Genesis one, in my opinion, if you look at Genesis one, and then you look at the garden
narrative, right?
Genesis one is obviously strangely scientific, so to speak.
I mean, for an ancient mindset, I mean, it sounds somewhat, it's very cosmological nature,
but then Genesis three, you got God walking with Adam and there's, how is he behind the
cosmology?
And now he's walking with it.
Right, right.
So there's some weird stuff, I think.
I think it is kind of what Dr. Price says, there's a mishmash here.
Yeah.
He only comes out like during the, the shady times of day, you know, you know, oh, during
the cool of the day, then God would walk with him.
It's like, he's got to worry about heat stroke.
What's the deal with this?
You know, I mean, hey, I get it.
The Middle East in summertime, I would not be walking around at noon.
So I get it.
I get that.
Even if I were all powerful, I would go take a nap.
But yeah, it's, it is very strange.
See, I just pretty much just like putting a crack right in front of a crack head right
there.
Look at Jason's face.
Yeah.
Mythology.
Well, thanks, brother.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
