I want to point out to people that this is something that the biblical authors do a lot,
where they'll polemically take aspects and titles of foreign gods and they'll attribute them to
their god Yahweh as a way of saying, look how bad our God is. Look, he's the authentic true God and
he takes the best attributes of the other gods and he does them even better. Habakkuk 3, which is
like this war text where all these aspects of foreign deities are being attributed to Yahweh
as he's preparing for battle and he marches into battle alongside these gods named Reshif and Deber.
So it's very strange, you know, why do we have this motif of the Sunchild Horus
being born from the Lotus and it's being used in official documentation like to stamp
pyrus manuscripts in the court of this exclusive Yahweh's.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm the host, Derek Lambert.
Our guest today is Ben Stanhope. How are you, Ben?
I'm doing great. How about you?
Doing good, man. Are you going to blow our socks off today or what?
It'll be mildly interesting at the very least, I hope.
I think it'll be a lot very interesting and I hope that those who are staying tuned will go down
into the description. Check out Ben's YouTube channel. He has plenty of videos. Go show him
some love and support. Hit that bell so you're, I mean, look at the one right there with Ray Comfort
teaching us how not to interpret the Bible holding that banana. You got to admit that that's some
really, you know, he impresses me every time. So go check out his channel.
Seriously, go subscribe to Ben's material. I always, I always enjoy what he has to say. Last
time we dealt with William Lane Craig's lack of understanding of ancient cosmology and the Bible.
You also have a website, Ben's or bstanhope.com.
What's the website about? And while we're here, let's plug those books.
The website is just a place for me to post the research that I'm doing,
some graphic design stuff related to biblical studies, papers, that sort of thing.
And my book, I've got an advert at the end of this for it, but I have a book critiquing the creation
museum and teaching people how to interpret it, interpret the Bible when it's ancient in
your Eastern context. So thanks so much. Yeah. So it's a biblical critique of the creation museum.
Everyone writes scientific ones. It's very easy to critique them on that, but I've argued that
they can't even interpret the Bible correctly for the most part. Wow. Well, I hope everybody will
go subscribe and check out his website, get his book. I also have the Patreon early access
for those who are special and they want to be part of what we're doing. Join the family right
now. You can also join our Memberships tab here at MythVision. Be part of the family. Let's keep
kicking butt, taking names, educating everybody. All right, Ben, now you're going to take us into
our presentation, I guess. What is it about? And if you don't mind, let's do the dang thing.
Right. The title of this presentation is Seals of the Biblical Kings,
Egyptian Influence on Israel's God, which I've given in a provocative title. I'm not going to be
arguing like any zeitgeisty views of history that like Jesus is based on Horus or that the
Hebrews stole their religion from Egypt or anything like that. Right. Primarily, I'm going to be
looking at a type of artifact called ancient seals, seals and Bullah, and what they reveal about
Hebrew art of the biblical classical period. And they have tremendous amount of Egyptian
influence. I want to discuss how that relates to the Bible theologically.
I'll start off with this question. Why did one of the Bible's most praised monotheistic kings
feature an Egyptian God on the official seal of his kingdom? So King Hezekiah is one of the
biblical authors' favorite kings. In 2 Kings 18, they state, Hezekiah did what was right in the
eyes of Yahweh. He removed the high places and broke the pillars and cut down the Ashiropoles.
He trusted in Yahweh so there was none like him among all the kings of Judah. And we've discovered
many copies of his seals, like the official seals of his administration as the king that he would
stamp royal documents with. And they have a winged sun point blank in the center of them,
parallel with Egyptian ox, which is very strange. So I did an MA thesis in Germany where this was
one of the main questions where I wanted to come to an answer on. And I'll be discussing this later
in the presentation. But here's an outline of what I'll be discussing. In part one, I just
want to go over what seals are in the ancient Near East. In part two, I'm going to discuss how we
can determine like of the thousands of seals that we have in the archaeological record, which ones
can we reliably say belong to biblical persons, persons identified in the Bible. And then I want
to provide you a list of the seals that we have in the archaeological record that belong to biblical
persons. And then in part four, we'll discuss the Egyptian art on these seals and what they imply
about the theology of the Bible and the theology of Yahweh throughout history.
So real quick, the primary sources that I'm drawing on, or these are my published documents on
this subject, the title of my master's thesis is First Temple Hebrew Seals in Bola, Identifying
Biblical Persons. And then I've recently published a summary paper in a volume entitled, Apigraphy,
Iconography in the Bible. So in the ancient Near East, we have these artifacts called seals.
They were used very, very early on since at least the seventh millennium BC. They're typically carved
of stone materials like wood and ivory and bone as well. And the purpose of these objects is kind
of like how we use seals even still today and throughout the medieval period. They're primarily
used to tamper proof, ratify, authenticate, or demonstrate ownership and authority of goods
and documents. So the first type of seals, which we won't be discussing too much of, but I just
want people to be aware of them, would be cylinder seals. These were the most common form of seals
used in Mesopotamia. Mesopotamia was a clay manuscript culture. So they like to have the
ability to have these seals that essentially form a loop of art or text and you can roll them out
across like the face of a clay tablet, for example. And then the seal type that we'll be discussing
primarily would be stamps. Pretty much all the artifacts in this study are essentially stamp
seals. And the way that you use stamp seals is you'll get like a lump of clay and then you'll
bind an object or a document, then you'll stick that lump of clay on the binding
such that you have to destroy the lump of clay in order to open the document or the object.
And then you would put a seal on it. That way no one can just like destroy the lump of clay and
then put another one. Presumably it's impossible to copy the seal that the person puts on it.
And as an illustration of this, I've put an image of a seal on the tomb of Tutankhamun.
And here's a couple more examples of what I'm referring to here. So these are a couple of
papyrus documents and you can see they've been bound with cord and then you've had a piece of clay
molded around them and then they've been stamped with a seal. And I've also included an image here
of the King Hezekiah below so you can actually see how small these things are. They're typically
about the size of a fingernail. They were usually designed to fit within rings or be worn as jewelry.
Like in the Bible, you might remember Joseph, he's given Pharaoh's seal ring and this symbolizes
that he has the authority of the King. So in part two, in my master's thesis,
I tried to answer the questions of the thousands of seals that we have. We just have a huge amount
of these things. Hundreds of them people have claimed these belong to biblical person. They have
inscriptions which identify the names that biblical people had. And I tried to answer the questions,
which ones can we say reliably actually did belong to persons known from the Bible?
And in order to answer this question, I basically piggybacked off of a doctoral thesis by a scholar
named Lawrence McKietook. He's written a book, a doctoral thesis entitled Identifying Biblical
Persons and Northwest Semitic Inscriptions. And this is a bit complicated, but this is my attempt
to compress McKietook's system for identifying which seals belong to biblical persons within a chart.
Most simple way of putting it is that McKietook
set out to discover the philosophical architecture of identification of inscriptions. And when we
ask the question, does the seal belong to biblical person? That question breaks down into three
sub-questions. Those three sub-questions would be, is the inscription data reliable? Does the
inscription setting permit a match with the proposed person? And then question three, which
is the most critical one, are the identifying data that we have for the inscription sufficient to
ensure that the inscription of biblical text are not referring to different persons? And the only
thing that people need to know for this presentation is that all the seals that we're going to be
looking at here fit into the most reliable categories. McKietook has a grading system,
and we're only going to be using the two highest grades for identifying biblical persons.
So all of the seals in this set, you could say they range from reliable to virtually certain
for identifying certain biblical personalities. And when you take the thousands of seals that we
have and you subject them to McKietook's criteria, you end up with this. So we have seven seals,
we have 17 bola. So these are clay artifacts that have been impressed by seals. These comprise 24
artifacts collectively, and they identify 15 biblical persons. And I've chronologically
plotted these here. Here's another look at the time period that they come from.
So I've grabbed here like the biblical monarchs like in order chronologically. And all the seals
that we're going to be looking at come from like the second half of the biblical monarchy.
So I'm going to go through the 15 persons that are identified by seals
that are known from the Bible. The first is Jeroboam II. We have a seal which depicts a line
which belonged to one of his court ministers. Jeroboam II, by the way, he was one of the main
kings involved in the book of Hosea. We have King Uzziah who is, he's viewed by the biblical
authors positively. In fact, he was such a Yahwish that the story in the Bible goes that he went
into the temple and he wanted to burn incense to Yahweh. The high priest told him that it wasn't
allowed because he has to be a priest to do it. He did it anyways. And then God struck him with
leprosy so he had to go live off alone by himself and his son had to take over his kingdom.
But you can see we have two seals here from his court. This guy is a Yahwist according to the
Bible, but one of the seals that has two winged sun discs on the back again. And then we have
another seal here, this fiery looking stone which depicts horse being birthed from a lotus.
We have King Jotham. He's identified by an an iconic seal. King A has one of the seals which
mentioned his name belonging to a court minister. Again, we have this sun disc motif with some
Eureus gods on it. King Hosea, who I depicted him murdering King Pika, that's how he gained
his throne in the Bible. Again, we have an Egyptianized motif of an Egyptian courtier
with another sun disc. This was the last king of Israel before the north fell to Assyria.
And we have again King Hezekiah. At the beginning of his reign, he had all of his royal seals had
a wing scarab on them, and then he switched later on in his reign to the wing sun disc.
Hillchiah and Azariah, which Hillchiah is the guy who is claimed in the Bible to have discovered
what was called the Book of the Law during renovations at the temple, which most scholars
identify as the Book of Deuteronomy. We actually know his son's ring size. We've discovered it.
It's a ring which has him and his son's name. It's this ring exists in some private collection
in France, an anonymous private collection in France, but it's been well-polished on.
Chaffon and Garamaya, Gamariah, I'm sorry. These are court scribes mentioned
in a bunch of places in the Book of Garamaya.
Shalamaya and Jehuacal. These are two other court officials mentioned in the Book of Garamaya.
Pasture and Getalaya. These guys are kind of interesting because we've identified in them both
they're mentioned on the name of a seal that was discovered in an archaeological context,
but in the Bible they tried to kill the prophet Jeremiah. They went to kings at Akhaya and they
complained that Jeremiah was committing treason because Jeremiah was prophesying that Judah was
going to follow the Babylonians, which Jeremiah was right. It did follow the Babylonians, but
they tried to convince the king that he was committing treason because he was prophesying
against Judah and it was demoralizing the Judah height troops.
So they had him lowered into a mud pit to essentially starve to death.
And another official heard about it and he went and fished Jeremiah out of the pit.
And then the last seal is the most recently discovered one. It was discovered in excavations
of a parking lot, but it identifies a guy named Nathan Melech who's mentioned only in a single
verse in the Bible just in passing, but I've put the verse here because it's kind of interesting for
what we'll be discussing in this study. Second Kings 2311. In the court near the chamber of
Nathan Melech, King Josiah burned the chariots of the sun. So apparently in conjunction with the
temple where Yahweh was being worshiped, the Bible itself reports that the Israelite kings
had these chariots of the sun being associated with Yahweh in some way.
Section four, the final section, which is the meat of this presentation,
will be a discussion of some of the Egyptian art that we've seen on these seals and trying to
answer the question of why do these overwhelmingly Yahweh exclusivist kings have these pagan
Egyptianized symbols on their seals that they're stamping again, all these court documents that
they're sending to foreign nations and circulating amongst their own people.
So if the first one I want to look at here is a seal of Shama, minister of Jeroboam. So
this seal depicts a striding lion motif, which is pretty well documented with an
ancient Near Eastern art, with an ancient Northwest Semitic art.
And in the early iterations of this symbol in the Levant, how it's typically depicted is you'll see a
god striding on top of a lion. And later on, within depictions of this symbol, people would just
omit the depiction of the god and just have the lion itself striding. And what the meaning of this
is, is mythologically, you would have these gods who are so powerful that they're able to defeat
noxious beasts. For example, you might have Marduk and he's riding on top of a dragon.
You get gods like Baal and he's standing on top of a lion or an ox. And the idea is that they've
subjugated these mighty creatures. And it's a demonstration of their power. And later on,
in the art, these creatures become so associated with this god's power that it can just sort of
stand on its own as a symbol of that god and that god's might. And so I think that this seal is
a symbolic representation of the god Yahweh. And a big part of the reason why I believe that as
well as because Hosea, who is living underneath King Jeroboam, he images Yahweh as a lion over and
over throughout that book. So I just want to plan your mind this idea that ancient Jews
were actually okay with imaging Yahweh sort of obliquely or symbolically,
even though they don't like to depict him, you know, as a man. But yeah, the seals of Hezekiah,
which is one of the stranger seals, I believe that this also would have been interpreted by
ancient Jews as a representation of Yahweh and his power. And there have been many studies published
on this subject of this Solarized Theology of Yahweh in the Bible. I'll give you some examples of this.
It spooks a lot of Orthodox Christians and Jews. Isaiah 58-8, your light will break forth as the
morning. The glory of Yahweh shall be your rear guard. So this is Isaiah speaking in relation
to the king of Israel. And he's sort of applying this Solarized imagery to both the king and his
kingdom and to Yahweh. Rise, shine for your light has come and the glory of Yahweh has risen upon you.
So again, another bit of language that attributes Solarized Aspects to Yahweh. And again, Isaiah
was one of the main consultants for King Hezekiah. Isaiah 60, verse 19, the sun will no more be your
light by day, nor will the brightness of the moon shine on you. For Yahweh will be your everlasting
light and your God will be your glory. And I've collected here just a smattering of verses throughout
different time periods in the Bible, which depict a Solarized Theology of Yahweh. Deuteronomy 33,
2, Yahweh done from Seer, he's shown forth from Mount Peron. We have a bunch of verses in the Bible
like this. Psalm 84, Yahweh is a sun and shield. Malachi 3, 2, which is pretty interesting. This is a
Persian period text, but it says, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings.
So here we have this idea of Yahweh is the sun. He's a winged sun even.
We have Amos 4, 13, which is a much earlier text. He makes the winged morning, the shachar,
efe in Hebrew. Psalm 104, this is an interesting text because many scholars believe that Psalm 104 is
based on or inspired by an Egyptian hymn to Aton. It has a bunch of weird parts in it that
are found in the Egyptian hymn to Aton, but it starts off with this line, Yahweh wraps himself
in light. He stretches out the heavens. So it's kind of a creation Psalm and it starts out with
this idea that Yahweh is this luminous God. And I believe in Genesis 1. If people know a little
bit about the grammar of Genesis 1, 1 and the history of debate about it, a lot of scholars
believe that should actually be translated as a dependent clause that opens up when God began to
create the heavens and the earth. And then the heavens and the earth aren't actually the first
thing that God creates in the verse. It's light, which is very interesting because
in the first four days of creation, there is no sun, but the text is going, it's evening
morning day one, evening morning day two. So I believed based on Psalm 104 in parallels with
other ancient Near Eastern creation texts that the author of Genesis 1 believed that Yahweh was
essentially the light that brought order to creation before the sun was even created.
So we see a polarized aspect of Yahweh again in Genesis 1.
And then I've quoted here 2 Kings 2311 again. King Josiah removed from the entrance of the
Temple of Yahweh the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the sun, then burned the
chariots dedicated to the sun. So you know this text, it's talking about royal educated Judah
Heights and the kings of Israel who were in the Judah high capital. And they believe somehow
apparently that Yahweh was associated with this solar chariot theology. And King Josiah,
he didn't like it so much. So he had it destroyed. This is just some art, some digital art that I've
created. It's from one of the most badass chapters in the Bible, my opinion, Habakkuk 3, which is
like this war text where all these aspects of foreign deities are being attributed to Yahweh
as he's preparing for battle. And he marches into battle alongside these gods named Reshif and Deber,
which were ancient Near Eastern gods. They're usually translated in English as
plague and desolation, that sort of a thing. But Habakkuk 3, it attributes more of this
solarized imagery to Yahweh, which is why I've included it here.
So I want to discuss this blood red looking limestone seal
possessed by a member of Uzziah's court, a guy named Shabanyahu.
He has these two sun discs on the back of his seal. I discovered during my master's thesis
research that there's another seal called the seal of Shalom. It's in a collection called the
Musaev collection. It's this pink seal depicted below. And I believe that these two seals were
made in the same ancient workshop. When you look at the way they're designed, when you look at the
designs on them, they're from the same references that the artists used. The sun discs on them,
for example, are pretty much exactly identical. And the bottom pink seal, the seal of Shalom,
it shows a guy worshiping the sun disc. This is a standard motif of an Assyrianized worshiper.
And the fact that the same artist or same workshop produced these two seals and they had the exact
same sun disc on them, I think that contextualizes the seal of Uzziah's court minister. Again,
it contextualizes this as a intended depiction of Yahweh, which again is pretty significant
because Uzziah was a Yahweh stick king by the Bible's own admission. The Bible likes King Uzziah
for the most part. And what I've depicted here, this is another graphic design art piece, but
I want to point out to people that this is something that the biblical authors do a lot,
where they'll polemically take aspects and titles of foreign gods and they'll attribute them to their
God Yahweh as a way of saying, look how badass our God is. Look, he's the authentic true God,
and he takes the best attributes of the other gods, and he does them even better. So Yahweh,
he's called the cloud writer in the Bible, which was before Yahwizim took off, that was an established
divine title of Prince of Baal. So I think we have two more seals to look at here.
I've made a point in my publications to produce this seal in color,
and the reason for that is I don't think there's a doubt in my mind that the artists that created
this seal chose it because it resembles sort of the fireiness of the sun. It's a bandit, a gate.
And this seal states that it belonged to a guy named Abiyahu, which Abiyahu in Hebrew means
Yahweh is my father, who was a minister in the court of King Uzziah. And the name Uzziah means
Yahweh is my strength. So it's very strange, you know, why do we have this motif of the
Sunchild Horus being born from the Lotus, and it's being used in official documentation,
like to stamp up pyrus manuscripts in the court of this exclusive Yahwiz.
And we find this motif in other places in Israel as well. I've put an ivory inlay from
Samaria, the capital of northern Israel. But I believe that the answer is to be found in the
Phoenicians, which were the primary influence. They were the guys that brought all of this Egyptian
trade to Israel, conveyed it across the Mediterranean Sea towards to them. And one of the things that
we find in Phoenician art is the Phoenicians love to depict their own gods, their own mythology
with through Egyptianized iconography. So they like to depict, for example, their god Baal
through imagery of the god Horus. And this has been pretty well recognized by scholars. So they
like to use this image as well. So I think what's going on is ancient Israelites would have
understood how this game worked, and they would have applied this image of Horus being born
from the Lotus, they would have taken it as this oblique symbol of Yahweh's power within their own
context, an idea they picked up from the Phoenicians. This is just some more digital art picking
the birth of Horus that I've created. And in relation to what I just discussed, it may be
kind of shocking to some people that ancient Jews would have been comfortable symbolizing Yahweh
through the iconography of Horus. But there's this last seal, which is very much closely
associated. It's belonged to a guy named Ushna or Ashna, is what the seal states, who is a minister
of the king A has. And it's interesting that this seal, it's the material that it was carved from
as Carnelian, which was associated by the Egyptians with the god Ra. And Carnelian is
an interesting material because it was pretty cheap and pretty easy to come by in the ancient Near
East. But we find it way over represented in proportion to its value within Egyptian royal
jewelry. And the reason for that was because it was associated with Ra, it was attributed to sort
of like a divine quality. But I've published what's probably the most lengthy study of the iconography
on this seal so far. And I believe that this seal also, ultimately, is a depiction of this
Yahweh stick solarized theology, or it would have been interpreted by the bear as symbolizing Yahweh.
And so what's going on with the crown motif over the sun, it's a motif called the hem hem crown
within Egyptian mythology. And the hem hem crown, the horns essentially represent the sunrise
mythologically. And then we have these plant structures, which represent the the myth of
Horus born and born and hidden in the thickets of chemnus so he could grow up and he could avenge
his father Osiris who was murdered by set. And so I'm proposing that
this this seal it's most often associated with, again, the birth of Horus from the lotus. So I
think this seal is basically a variant of the same motif on the seal that we just looked at.
And this is a scholar named Katya Goegs. She's an Egyptologist at the University of Toronto,
basically explaining what I've said about the hem hem crown. It's a representation most typically of
the solar child emerging from the lotus flower. But the last element on the seal that I want to
discuss would be these Eureus gods that are depicted. And this is a motif that's
and this is a motif that's we find it very frequently on Semitic seals, particularly Hebrew
seals. Most often it's shown in winged form. And I think I think it's almost beyond doubt that the
ancient Hebrews within the biblical classical period treated this motif as sort of a protective
amulet the way that the Egyptians treated depiction depictions of Eureuses as protective deities.
But it might surprise most people to learn that the Seraphim in the Bible, which are discussed,
for example, in Isaiah six, that they they kind of like are crowded around the throne of Yahweh.
Most scholars would identify the beings depicted on these seals with those Seraphim in the Bible.
The word Seraph means fiery serpent or venomous serpent in Hebrew.
So what I think is going on here with these winged serpent seals is that there's a lot of
scholarship indicating that Yahweh was associated with serpents very early on
within Yahwistic theology. You know, we have the story in Genesis of the serpent in the garden.
We have this bronze serpent that was associated with Moses and it was being offered incense in the
temple. And King Hezekiah didn't like that. So he had it destroyed. But I think the ancient
Judahites and Israelites recognize that the Egyptian Eureus gods, which are associated with the
God Ra, who carry him through the underworld and so forth, and are protective deities. I think
they recognize that this was a point of similarity between their religion and ancient Egyptian religion.
And so they felt comfortable just borrowing this artistic motif and sort of conforming it to their
own Yahwistic theology and using it in their own art. This is another digital painting that I've
created depicting Ra coming through the underworld. And I've created this image. We're typically,
we like to depict angels as these voluptuous blonde women, but maybe a more accurate picture
would be then represented as these ancient serpentine beings. But I want to round up with
all the things that I've discussed, a couple conclusions. The first thing I think we can
deduce is that when we look in the archaeological record and we see all these representations
for deities, we can't always necessarily assume that this means that the person who
created this art or owned it was necessarily intending it as anti-Yahwistic.
It may have obliquely been a representation of Yahweh just using foreign motifs.
The second conclusion, I would say, I think it's pretty well established that in order to
interpret the Bible accurately, we need to be able to read the Bible alongside other
ancient and Eastern religious texts. I think you can see in this presentation that there's
really good evidence that during the biblical classical period, ancient Jews had a pretty
decent knowledge of ancient Egyptian religion and religious symbols and theology. So I think
it's perfectly legitimate, for example, to interpret a text like Genesis 1 alongside
ancient Egyptian theology and ancient Phoenician and Mesopotamian theology.
And my last point essentially is, I like this idea historically and mythologically that
Yahweh is kind of this composite God in the sense that the ancient Jews, they encountered all of
these foreign deities and empires throughout their history. And over time, what you saw happen is
Yahweh would rub shoulders at these gods. He would compete with them. He would take on attributes of
them. His worshipers would find similarities that were indigenous to Yahweh between them.
And I think over time this sort of, it brought Yahweh from being this really sort of obscure
desert God with all these particularized attributes. And he became more philosophically
sophisticated over time, perhaps. And by the time of the Hellenistic period and the Romans
and the Roman period, Jews were perfectly fine identifying Yahweh with the Logos of Greek philosophy,
for example. So this is an advert for my book. If anyone's interested, the title is Misinterpreting
Genesis, How the Creation Museum Misunderstands the Ancient Near Eastern Context of the Bible.
And that's the presentation. Ladies, control yourselves. Oh, man, that's funny. Yeah, that
was interesting. There's so much there to unpack. One thing that I thought was really
interesting is your point number one in your conclusion is like, it doesn't mean they necessarily
worship these gods. They maybe adopt the imagery but apply it to their God. That's possible.
The other question I have is, is it possible that they're also, they have more than one God? Is it
not also possible that what we're reading in the text isn't really what's reality on the ground?
I think definitely, absolutely, they have more than one God. That's almost not debated in biblical
scholarship that they, Yahweh was the head of a divine council of other gods. And
we also know historically, this is a difficult part of my study is that we know historically
by the Bible's own admission that people are worshiping gods left and other gods left and
right within ancient Israelite history. And we, and you had this emergent cohort of Yahweh's that
want to keep things exclusive to Yahweh. So it's a very, it is very difficult to try to determine
to what degree there might actually be worship of other gods like Ron Atten and so forth.
But I think overwhelmingly because we, I'm pretty certain that Hezekiah historically was
an exclusive Yahwist. I'm sure he believed in the existence of other gods, but he was pretty
exclusive to Yahweh. And because, for example, he depicts Yahweh as the sun disk, I think
that contextualizes all these other depictions of Yahweh as a sun disk as probably Yahweh and not
intended depictions of the ancient Egyptian deities.
That's a well put point. And I've noticed that in the Bible over and over, God is consuming fire.
You know, what is that? I haven't thought about that yet.
Well, yeah, consuming fire. There's a lot of imagery of this, the sun,
Yahweh coming on the clouds. Okay. What if you just look up with the naked eye on any given day,
you'll notice what's riding on the back of the clouds, the sun. And so the sun imagery seems
to imply there's something going on, I think with observation, you know, they also thought the earth
was flat back then. They used to think their perception told them these things. And if they
equated the divine or even the sun as a symbol of the God, then they could say that the God is
riding on the back of the clouds or whatever, when Psalms talks about God riding on the clouds
and sending thunderbolts, you know, things like that. So there's a lot of really interesting
things you bring up. I think it's highly like what's really got my attention, I guess, is this
Egyptian overwhelming Egyptian iconography on these symbols and over and over and over and over
and it's like, what the heck is this? So they did rule Canon for forever, you know, I mean,
so the impacts there, the Phoenician connection was interesting. I kind of wonder if Philistine,
the Philistine had any impact to, I don't know, but the Phoenicians, you brought up a clear
possible connection by showing the Phoenicians did this. Why not? You know, they were kind of the
middle man between Israel and Egypt. But you know, you mentioned like Egypt over and over and like
the influence of Egyptian theology on Yahweh and like, I've been reading a book recently, it's
called Genesis in Egypt by James P. Allen. He's a mainstream Egyptologist. And the thing that's
blown me most, what this book is, is it basically compiles all of the primary sources of Egyptian
creation theology. And then it's like a commentary on them, you know, from translated from the
hieroglyphs by James P. Allen himself. And I can't believe how philosophically sophisticated
ancient Egyptian religion was. It's, I don't like the terms monotheism and polytheism because
they were mentioned in the 17th century by philosophers and they don't actually describe
ancient religion very well. They're very confusing. But there are aspects in which the
God Aten, for example, the Sun God is he's he's essentially the ontological source of all reality,
which is kind of monotheistic in certain respects. And like, I think the Bible encountering this
religion like it and having Yahweh compete against a God like that helped create Yahweh into what he
is the head of the pantheon in a way. Yeah, yeah. And Genesis one, for example, like,
if I'm correct that the authors in some sense, writing polemically against ancient Israelite
ancient Egyptian religion, I think that was that was one of the steps, essentially,
the elevated Yahwistic theology so high was like the fact that there was that
polemic going on with ancient Egyptian religion. So you take a position that Genesis is a polemic
against Egyptian is are you 100% convinced on that in your view or because I've heard
that it's a polemic against Mesopotamian, it's it's over overwhelmingly the language, the linguistics
and everything are super Mesopotamian, right, super Mesopotamian. And I would have always said that,
you know, I wouldn't even go to Egypt as a source for contextualizing it until I did my master's
thesis. And it's like, okay, Genesis was written maybe before or after the exile, somewhere around
that time. And all of this, all of the royal seals and artwork leading up to that are super
Egyptian. And Kings like Hezekiah, who lived a little bit before that period, had a very close
alliance, for example, with Pharaoh Teharka of the Egyptians. And, you know, he's sending documents
impressed with his seal, which we've discovered in the archaeology, and it's got all these
God things on it, your races and wings, or sun and so forth. So I think that the author of Genesis
one would have been very well informed on basic aspects of Egyptian theology, as well as Mesopotamian.
Even though, yeah, I think you're right, though, as Mesopotamia is the most immediate context.
However, you're not you're, you're saying let's not just look to Mesopotamia. We need to have a
factor, we need a factor that in the ancient Near East, especially when they're conquered nation,
right? So they're conquered by these massive superstructures who have their fingers on so
many different nations. And if a nation like Egypt, which, like you said, they're already highly
influenced by, and you have, let's say Babylon, all right, you had a Syria Babylon, same, same root
to which Mesopotamian theology and mythology comes out of. And then Egypt, these two massive power
structures, you can imagine someone stuck in the middle or conquered by one and is dealing with
both is in response, maybe primarily maybe dealing with the Mesopotamian stuff, but also
dealing with the Egyptian is what your point is. Yeah. And the best evidence for what you've just
said would be like Ezekiel, he's writing right after the Babylonian exile and scholars of
Ezekiel, I've recognized like, man, this guy knows what's going on in like Phoenician culture. He
understands Egyptian culture pretty well, like he's really well educated and informed on, you know,
he's obviously in a Babylonian context. So you almost have sort of this melting pot effect
with the Babylonian exile. Wow. Is there anything else in particularly like dimension before we
wrap it up? Nothing that occurs me by my book, make me rich, review it. Get the book. Please
help me exact vengeance against my enemies. My enemies, the creation museum, they're not really
my enemies. They're, I'm sure they're, they're, they're perfectly fine people, but you should buy
my book and read about how they're wrong about everything. Get the book. Don't forget he's got
a YouTube channel as well. Go subscribe. I see you did something on Mike Heiser here. What is this?
Is this? That's just meme content. Okay. Making fun of Mike Heiser worship. How I kind of am one
of the Mike Heiser worshipers, but yeah, yeah. These are pretty cool. I mean, I must admit,
though, he is pretty cool. I've interviewed him. He's more right than wrong on most of what he
writes. Yeah. Yeah. He just finds a way to package it, though, where it still works. So,
for him, you know, you also got the book, go check out the website, bestanhope.com. You can get the
book there. You can actually harass him in the comment section beneath the book or when you're
reviewing things. Let me see right here down at the bottom. See, you can go harass him down here.
You can also help support us on MythVision Patreon. We're working hard and we have a membership
option where you can join to help us do what we do here at MythVision. I seriously appreciate the
time and effort that you put in coming on here, Ben. Let's do another one again. In fact, we might
need to do a live stream hanging out, just talking to the audience if you ever give me that opportunity.
Sure. I wouldn't be opposed to that. Awesome, man. Well, thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen,
if you haven't forgotten already, never forget we are MythVision.
