Enoch might be the most enigmatic character in the entire Bible.
We get a brief glimpse of Enoch in the opening of Genesis, only for him to disappear.
The next thing we know, he shows up in a collection of strange literature found at Qumran, the
famous Dead Sea Scrolls.
The community at Qumran was transfixed by Enoch.
One of their favorite books was One Enoch, mostly known as the Book of Enoch.
One Enoch is usually divided into five different sections, similar to how the Torah consists
of five books.
These different sections in One Enoch were written over a span of hundreds of years,
and our focus will be on the second section, called the similitudes of Enoch, or the parables
of Enoch.
The similitudes have all the apocalyptic veneer, mystical teachings, prophecies about the end
of the world, and a savior.
What shocks most people when they read the similitudes is that this savior looks like
a sort of prototype for how early Christians thought about Jesus.
One Enoch calls the savior, quote, the Son of Man, end quote, someone who is supposed
to deliver divine judgment, vindicating the righteous and condemning the wicked.
His impact has influenced Christian literature and Hermetic literature.
This Son of Man as a mystifying figure, who pre-existed with heavenly glory, seems to
have been a syncretized concept from Jewish, Hellenistic, and ancient Near Eastern mythology.
Hold on tight, because we'll dive into all of this once we become familiar with the secrets
within Enoch's parables.
When we look at other apocalyptic books like Daniel, 4th Baruch, 2nd Ezra, or the Apocalypse
of John, is that they wrote their stories with the hope of an imminent redemption from
all the evil in the world, whether that was living under the thumb of Antiochus Epiphanes,
dealing with the rival factions within their own communities, or trying to survive violent
conquest by the Roman Empire.
The texts visualize ancient heroic godly figures like Enoch, Baruch, Ezra, Abraham, etc., peering
into the future during celestial journeys, learning the mysteries of how God plans to
deal with these wicked people, and reward the righteous at the end of history.
We give you a glorious deep dive into the similitudes, which make up chapters 37-71
of one Enoch.
We need to briefly recap where we're at in the series of the book of Enoch.
The first 36 chapters in one Enoch, called the Book of Watchers, was used by the author
of the similitudes.
Before we uncover the mysteries of Enoch, I'm excited to welcome back Ground News as
a sponsor.
As many of you know, I have a passion for teaching the Bible to millions, and the book
of Enoch truly captures the imagination.
However, there's a critical issue.
Millions of American youth are being required by law to study the Bible, often without a
proper understanding, which can lead to indoctrination.
I wouldn't have realized the full extent of this change in America's school system
without Ground News.
This app and website collects news from over 50,000 different sources, offering a comprehensive
view of any story.
In today's world, online misinformation and algorithm-driven echo chambers have intensified
polarization.
We need a tool that presents multiple viewpoints, and Ground News does this exceptionally well.
For example, the Oklahoma State Superintendent has mandated that schools teach the Bible
from grades 5 through 12.
Ground News found 180 articles on this topic, with most coverage coming from center and
left-leaning sources, making this a blind spot for the right.
They also provide insights into the factuality and ownership of these sources with quick
visual breakdowns.
It's easy to compare headlines.
For instance, National Zero, a left-leaning source, writes, quote, Oklahoma Education
Secretary threatens to revoke teaching licenses if instructors don't include Bible lessons,
end quote.
Right-leaning Western Journal reports, quote, Hope Oklahoma putting Bible back in schools
after Louisiana brings 10 commandments back, end quote.
Ground News will show you perspectives from the other side, helping you to avoid echo
chambers.
And if you value critical thinking and unbiased news coverage as much as I do, Ground News
is the tool for you.
They're offering viewers a 40% discount on the vantage plan, which provides access to
all these incredible features.
Visit www.ground.news.com or scan the QR code on the screen to save 40% on the vantage
plan I use for unlimited access to all their features.
The link is also in the description or pinned comment under the video.
By signing up, you're not only helping yourself, but also supporting this channel.
Thank you, Ground News, for sponsoring today's video.
Now let's get back into the Enoch documentary.
During a time when the boundaries between heaven and earth are fluid and divine beings
interact directly with humans, this is the setting for the Book of Watchers, a fascinating
tale filled with celestial beings, forbidden knowledge, and divine retribution.
Enoch, the great grandfather of Noah, is the central character in this story.
He is a righteous man chosen by God to receive divine revelations and to serve as a meteor
between heaven and earth.
Enoch's role is to document a rebellion in heaven and the ensuing consequences.
The story begins with a group of angels called the Watchers, who are tasked with observing
activities on earth.
However, these Watchers became captivated by the beauty of human women and decide to
abandon heaven, making these women their own wives.
Led by their leader, Shimehaza, two hundred angels make a pact on Mount Hermon to carry
out their plan, knowing it defies divine order.
The union between the Watchers and human women results in the birth of the Nephilim, a race
of giants.
These giants are not only enormous in size, but also incredibly powerful and violent.
They begin to dominate and ravage the earth, causing widespread destruction and chaos.
The influence of the Watchers leads to a proliferation of wickedness and corruption
among humans.
The Watchers, under their leader Azael, also bring forbidden knowledge to humanity.
They teach humanity various arts and sciences that were meant to be kept secret, including
weapon-making, the art of crafting weapons and armor, leading to increased violence and
warfare, cosmetics and sorcery, the use of makeup and charms, introducing vanity and
deceit, astrology and divination, knowledge of the stars and occult practices, promoting
false beliefs and superstitions, God seeing the rampant corruption and the suffering
caused by the Watchers and their offspring decides to intervene.
He sends the archangels Michael, Gabriel, Raphael and Uriel to take action against the
Watchers and the Nephilim.
Michael leads the charge against the rebellious Watchers, binding them for their transgressions.
Gabriel is tasked with destroying the Nephilim by inciting them to turn on each other in
a brutal conflict.
Raphael is commanded to bind Azael, one of the chief Watchers, and cast him into a desert
obis, covering him with sharp stones.
Uriel warns Noah about the impending flood, advising him to prepare an ark to save himself
and his family.
Enoch is taken on a heavenly journey where he witnesses the judgment of the Watchers.
He sees the chains and dark pits where the fallen angels are imprisoned, awaiting their
final judgment at the end of history.
Enoch is also given prophetic visions about the coming flood that will cleanse the earth
of the Nephilim's corruption.
The Book of Watchers ends with a promise of restoration.
After the flood, the earth will be renewed and righteousness will prevail.
The imprisoned Watchers will face their ultimate punishment on the day of judgment, and peace
will be restored among humanity.
The Book of Watchers highlights the consequences of defying divine order and ensuing corruption
and suffering on earth.
Through Enoch's eyes, we witness the profound impact of the Watchers' actions and the hope
for restoration and divine justice.
The similitudes of Enoch build on this foundation, introducing the Son of Man and focusing on
the final judgment, an ultimate triumph of good over evil.
Together, these sections form a cohesive narrative that underscores the importance of divine
order and the hope for redemption and restoration.
Shockingly, the similitudes of Enoch are completely missing from the Dead Sea Scrolls, giving
scholars pause on dating it with too much certainty.
Just as it happened in the Book of Watchers, the similitudes tell how Enoch was taken on
a heavenly journey.
These chapters focus on a series of three revelations, which the book calls parables.
These parables are not short, illustrative lessons like we find Jesus using in the New
Testament Gospels, such as the parable of the Strong Man or the parable of the Wedding
Feast.
Instead, these three parables are fairly straightforward depictions of apocalyptic judgment being dispensed
from the heavenly throne room.
Across his visions, Enoch sees a world where the righteous and the wicked live side by
side, but this coexistence is temporary.
The first parable, found in chapters 38-44, reveals that a day of judgment is coming.
The wicked, who have led lives of injustice and oppression, will face severe consequences.
Meanwhile, the righteous who have stayed true to their faith and lived justly will be rewarded.
Enoch sees the heavens open up and the angels, led by the archangel Michael, prepare for
the final reckoning.
The parable emphasizes that no evil deed will go unpunished, and no good deed will
go unrewarded.
This sets the stage for the central theme of divine justice.
Enoch also hints at the unique relationship between God called the Lord of Spirits, and
a special person he calls the Chosen One.
In the second parable, chapters 45-57, Enoch is introduced to a mysterious and powerful
figure.
This is the Son of Man, who has righteousness, and righteousness dwells with him.
This figure is portrayed as a pre-existent quasi-divine being, who will play a crucial
role in the final judgment.
The Son of Man is described as sitting on a throne of glory, surrounded by angels.
Enoch learns that the Son of Man is the Chosen One, given authority by God, the Lord of Spirits,
to carry out the divine plan.
The Son of Man is Savior and Judge.
He will lead the righteous to eternal life, but will also cast the wicked into a place
of punishment.
This parable not only highlights the role of the Son of Man, but also reinforces the
hope for salvation and the ultimate victory of good over evil.
The third parable, chapters 58-69, takes Enoch even deeper into his vision of the end times.
Here, he sees the final battle between the forces of good and evil.
The angels gather humanity for judgment, and describe the rewards awaiting the righteous.
They will live in a renewed, perfect world, free from suffering and filled with divine
light.
They will dwell in the presence of the Lord of Spirits, and the Son of Man experiencing
eternal peace and joy.
On the other hand, the wicked face eternal darkness and torment separated from the divine
presence.
At some points, we run into interruptions about the punishment of the watchers, or the flood
in Noah's time.
Enoch's vision ends with a powerful message.
Despite the current state of the world, justice will be served, and the righteous will be
vindicated.
The story assures the faithful that their struggles are not in vain, and that a brighter,
divine future awaits them.
The similitudes of Enoch is a story of hope, justice, and cosmic battles.
It tells of a future where the righteous are rewarded, the wicked are punished, and a divine
Savior, the Son of Man, leads humanity into an era of eternal peace.
Through Enoch's heavenly visions, we glimpse a world where divine justice reigns supreme,
offering comfort and inspiration to those who seek righteousness.
Another George W. E. Nicholsburg recognizes these authors were writing under, quote, the
painful historical reality of oppression by the powers that be is palpable, in the repeated
references to, quote, the kings and the mighty, end quote, and in the numerous angry threats
of punishment and the glowing promises of vindication on a renewed earth, end quote.
A prominent scholar of apocalyptic literature, Dr. John J. Collins, suggests that the apocalyptic
visions often arise in response to social political crises.
The visions in one Enoch can be seen as a way to address the existential anxieties of
the Jewish community during times of foreign domination and internal conflict.
Another scholar who has studied one Enoch extensively, Dr. Lauren T. Stuckenbrock, notes
that the text reflects concerns about the loss of traditional values and the need for divine
justice in an increasingly hostile world.
Well, this makes so much sense when we dwell on it alongside other apocalyptic books, such
as Daniel, written under the rule of the tyrant Antiochus Epiphanes, or the three apocalypses
Second Baruch, Fourth Ezra, and John's Apocalypse, each dealing with the traumatic devastation
of the Jerusalem Temple by the Roman Empire.
It's as though apocalypses become hopeful fantasies of retribution to groups of people
that are villains to our in-group.
A form of torture porn for the bad guys causing us harm in our weakened situation.
It's a way to give power to the powerless through imagination, which requires that I
mention John J. Collins' book, The Apocalyptic Imagination, where he documents this at length.
The use of symbolic and visionary language in one Enoch allows the authors to address
contemporary issues indirectly, offering a transcendent perspective on historical events
and societal conditions.
Let's get into a few of the specifics from the similitudes.
Nearly all ancient Jewish apocalypses are synonymous.
The authors pretended to be some hero from Israel's past, whether that was Abraham or
Moses or Ezra.
A small mystery for those willing to read one Enoch is the question of why he was chosen
to be the author.
In context of the book of Watchers, Enoch fits chronologically into the setting.
He appears late in Genesis 5.
The story of the Watchers expanded the first paragraph from Genesis 6, but why Enoch specifically,
and not some other patriarch from Genesis 5?
Part of what made Enoch so attractive as a pseudonym for the author was Enoch's specific
situation in Genesis 5.
When Enoch had lived for 65 years, he became the father of Methuselah.
Enoch walked with God after the birth of Methuselah for 300 years, and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Enoch were 365 years.
Enoch walked with God, then he was no more, because God took him.
Enoch literally disappears from the story Genesis tells.
The mystery of his disappearance begged for an explanation.
One Enoch purports to tell what really happened to him.
Enoch was such a righteous, good person, he walked with God, that God decided to snatch
him from the earth to fulfill a unique role as a scribe in heaven, documenting the events
of the Watchers, as well as secrets about heaven, earth, and the afterlife.
Enoch's scribal duties in heaven are expanded in other parts of one Enoch, as well as books
based on it, such as the Book of Jubilees, or the Testament of Abraham.
According to these authors, Enoch writes down all the good and evil things people do
on earth, in preparation for their judgment at the end of history.
But this concept about Enoch was probably not invented by the author of the Book of
Watchers.
Genesis chapters 5 and 11 contain two halves of a single 20 generation genealogy, with
Noah's flood happening right in the middle.
For the flood, each generation lived for hundreds of years, but after the flood, their lifespans
quickly diminished to mere decades.
Enoch stands out not just because of his mysterious disappearance, but because he disappeared at
the age of 365, the same number of days in a solar year.
Enoch is also seventh in the genealogy, and as commonly known, the number seven is extremely
important in biblical numerology.
The genealogy in Genesis 5 and 11 has several parallels in the Sumerian king list, and was
probably loosely based on it.
This ancient document presents a long list of rulers, both mythical and historical.
The first several kings lived for tens of thousands of years, but when humanity narrowly
survives a worldwide flood, the king's lifespans rapidly decrease, down to thousands of years,
then hundreds, and finally mere decades.
The seventh king on the list, who ruled before the flood, is named Inmenderana.
The list states that Inmenderana ruled from the city Sipar, which was a center of worship
for the solar deity known as Utu by the Mesopotamians and Shamash by the Canaanites.
And some mythological traditions about Inmenderana said that he was taken to heaven by Shamash
to learn divine secrets.
It is possible that this myth about Enoch developed sometime between the 6th and 4th
centuries BCE.
The myth would have modified even older, maybe unwritten claims about Enoch, that derived
from Inmenderana, eventually taking shape in the Book of Watchers around 300 BCE.
That initial form of one Enoch became the foundation for further speculation about Enoch's role
in heaven, what happened to him after he saw the Watchers imprisoned.
Genesis doesn't say he returned to the mortal world, so he must have remained in heaven.
What did he do up there?
Well, he must have continued his job as heaven's scribe in some other capacity.
Because the similitudes borrow so heavily from the Book of Watchers, this means that
any other influences on the Watchers should also be considered.
While their story primarily expands on the legend about gods marrying human women in
Genesis 6, that episode is too short to explain the entire book.
Instead, the real sources of inspiration for the Book of Watchers came from, ironically
enough, the very culture which one Enoch was originally intended to condemn.
The Book of Watchers was written when Greek culture was violently intruding across the
ancient Near East.
The author set out to criticize these Greek invaders using myths developed from Genesis,
but he wound up filling in the details of his fable by borrowing from Greek myths.
The Watchers themselves, bringing forbidden knowledge and practices to humanity, were
heavily based on the story of Prometheus.
Just as the Greek god was chained to a rock to be eternally tortured for his sin, the
Watchers are locked away in a valley filled with jagged stones.
Enoch's subsequent journey through the cosmos, witnessing the places where human souls end
up in the afterlife, is probably also based on Greek myths of heroes traveling to the
farthest reaches of the earth, including the underworld, though examples can also be
found in Mesopotamian culture.
These myths are not the main focus of the similitudes, but they stand in the background
and inform some of the broader themes running through Enoch's three parables.
The Book of Daniel was written sometime after The Book of Watchers, but before the similitudes.
Daniel was one of the last books in the Hebrew Bible, drafted up in response to a crisis
we call the Maccabean Revolt.
Chapter 7 in The Book of Daniel shows the reader a vision of four monsters wreaking
havoc on the world.
God, portrayed as a figure called the Ancient of Days, assembles the heavenly courtroom and
presides over it as a judge.
He renders his verdict punishing the monsters for their atrocities, and he rewards another
character who is described as one like a son of man.
This phrase, son of man, is just a biblical expression which means human.
It's used frequently in the Book of Ezekiel to identify the prophet Ezekiel as a mortal
being.
When Daniel says he saw someone like a son of man in his vision, he simply means that
he saw a human-like character as opposed to the four monster-like characters.
Daniel is exasperated by his vision, which prompts an angel to explain the meaning of
the symbolism.
The four monsters represent four powerful kingdoms in the world, and the victims of
those kingdoms are the Israelites.
In the near future, God will pass judgment on the world-conquering kingdoms, and will
give the Israelites the right to rule instead.
This means, according to the angel's explanation, the human-like character is a symbol for the
victimized Israelites.
The author of the similitudes borrowed from earlier sections of one Enoch, and his next
principle source of inspiration was Daniel 7.
But he doesn't just copy the vision in Daniel 7, he reimagines it.
He removes the elaborate symbolism of monsters, replacing them with general references to
corrupt rulers and kings.
But he does keep the setting of God assembling the heavenly courtroom to pass judgment.
And the most important difference between the similitudes and Daniel 7 is how the author
reimagines the son-of-man character.
First, instead of personifying the Israelite community, the son-of-man is now a literal
individual person.
And second, instead of the son-of-man being a victim, rewarded only after his enemies
have been punished, the son-of-man is now the judge, the one who punishes and rewards.
He will loosen the reins of the strong.
He will crush the teeth of the sinners.
He will overturn the kings from their thrones and their kingdoms.
In this son-of-man character, the author merges a variety of ideas he has taken from the Hebrew
Bible in contemporary traditions.
The author calls him the righteous one, the chosen one, and even the Messiah.
Like the king of Israel in Psalm 2, the son-of-man will crush the kings of the nations.
The author borrows from Isaiah's prophecies about a descendant from David, as well as
Isaiah's suffering servant.
The author also tells his readers that when the son-of-man is revealed to the world, they
will learn that he had been hidden in heaven by God ages ago.
In the epilogue of the similitudes, chapters 70-71, Enoch tells the reader how he was permanently
taken away from the human realm to live with God and the angels, granted knowledge over
the mysteries of the world.
When Enoch approaches God's throne in heaven, his mortal body melts away, transformed to
remain in God's presence.
At this moment, an angel tells Enoch the most shocking detail of his revelation.
You are that son-of-man who was born for righteousness, and righteousness dwells on you.
Enoch himself is the son-of-man, Enoch, the righteous one, Enoch, the chosen one, Enoch,
the Messiah.
Enoch's ascension into heaven, in fact, is when God hid the Messiah away in heaven.
Some later Jewish theologians followed from the similitudes portrayal of the son-of-man,
and continued to elaborate on Enoch's unique role as the scribe of heaven.
In some of these texts, Enoch is not merely transformed into an angel, but is exalted
above all things, deputized as a second God, with all of the authority from the Supreme
Creator himself.
I have seventy names corresponding to the seventy nations of the world, and all of them
are based on the name of the King of the Kings of Kings.
In this elevated state, Enoch is identified primarily with the name Metatron, but his
glorification doesn't stop there.
The Holy One fashioned for me a majestic robe.
He fashioned for me a kingly crown.
He set it upon my head, and he called me the Lesser Yahweh.
Enoch's deification in Third Enoch comes about directly from his unique role as a scribe
in heaven, because Enoch is granted the knowledge of all mysteries, including knowing the secret
thoughts within every person in the world.
He was functionally omniscient, like God.
While Third Enoch was written quite some time after the similitudes, this thought process
might demonstrate the thought process behind how the similitudes decided Enoch was the
identity of the Son of Man.
For Jews who believed a Savior would be sent by God during the end times, some of them
may have believed Enoch alone was qualified to stand as the Messiah who passed judgment
on humanity, since he knew every person's secrets inside and out due to his role as
the heavenly scribe.
The similitudes might be the second section within one Enoch, but they were actually the
last section to be written.
The similitudes were written so late compared to the rest of one Enoch, that they are the
only section missing entirely from the copies of one Enoch found among the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So how old are the similitudes?
They were definitely written after the Maccabean Revolt, since they used the Book of Daniel,
which was written around 165 BCE.
One Enoch 56-5 might refer to attacks on the Roman Empire by the Parthians, which began
around 53 BCE.
One Enoch 67 seems to reference King Herod using the mineral baths of Caliro near the
end of the first century BCE.
And 46-6 might even allude to Herod's gruesome death in 4 BCE.
Coming from the other direction, the similitudes never mentioned the destruction of Jerusalem
and its temple by the Romans in 70 CE.
For a prophecy concerned with the corruption of world rulers and their coming judgment
in the end times, it's almost impossible to believe the similitudes could have been
written after 70 CE and have nothing to say about that catastrophe.
Earlier still, the book called The Wisdom of Solomon was written around 40 CE.
Wisdom shares similar ideas to the similitudes version of a messiah not descended from King
David, found in the same chapter as Wisdom's description of Enoch himself, which suggests
the author may have been at least somewhat influenced by the similitudes.
The information available to us, brief as it is, suggests the similitudes were written
and inserted into one Enoch sometime between 50 BCE and 50 CE.
More likely in the range of 1-25 CE.
This could explain why the similitudes were missing from the copies of one Enoch found
in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
By the time the similitudes were written, the Dead Sea Scrolls community had severely
dwindled and the creative output had all but slowed to a stop.
Identifying a date for the similitudes goes a long way in figuring out the author's point.
The reason for which he wrote at all.
While the similitudes are very non-specific, almost to a fault, we can deduce the author's
primary motivation.
The villains are the Roman rulers of Palestine and or their clients in the Herodian House.
Except for the most abstinent Christian theologians and apologists, it's universally accepted
that the New Testament epistle of Jude quotes the Book of Watchers.
It was also about these that Enoch the 7th from Adam prophesied saying, See, the Lord
is coming amid his holy myriads to execute judgment on all and to convict all souls for
all their wicked works that they did wickedly and for all the hard things that wicked sinners
spoke against him.
The Greek text of Jude 14-15 is so close to one Enoch 1-9 that the epistles author must
have had a Greek translation of one Enoch right in front of him.
In fact, Jude is so full of references and allusions to one Enoch, such as the summary
of the story of the Watchers in Jude 6, or the poetic language of withered trees in
Jude 12 that we could almost call the epistle a Christian homily on one Enoch.
Because Jude is so saturated with language and pictures taken from one Enoch, the identification
of the patriarch Enoch as the 7th from Adam in Jude 14 is specifically noteworthy.
Prior to Jude, this phrase is only found in the similitudes.
Jude took it from one Enoch 68.
With one Enoch's similitudes dated to the beginning of the 1st century CE, it's taken
for granted the similitudes were used by the Apocalypses, 4th Ezra and 2nd Baruch, both
written around 90-110 CE.
In contrast, the influence of one Enoch on New Testament literature other than Jude
is often minimized, even though roughly half of the New Testament's books were written
in the same time period.
The Revelation of John might have used the book of Enoch, though to a much smaller extent
compared to Jude.
For example, Revelation 14-20 shows an eerie similarity to one Enoch 100 and 3.
One Peter might also have used one Enoch.
Several commentators have argued one of the most confusing parts of the New Testament is
the final paragraph in 1 Peter 3.
For Christ also suffered for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous.
In order to bring you to God, He was put to death in the flesh but made alive in the spirit,
in which also He went and made a proclamation to the spirits in prison, who in former times
did not obey when God waited patiently in the days of Noah during the building of the
ark, in which a few, that is, eight people were saved through water.
And baptism, which this prefigured, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body,
but as an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God with angels, authorities, and
powers made subject to Him.
Most readers interpret the author as claiming that while Jesus was dead, his spirit traveled
to the afterlife where he preached the gospel to deceased humanity, thus explaining how
people who died before Jesus could still receive salvation.
Except, 1 Peter 3 says, Jesus did this after he was made alive in the spirit.
And why does it say that Jesus preached specifically to people who sinned in the days of Noah?
Why then, and not say people who sinned during Israel's enslavement in Egypt before the Exodus?
When the author switches to talking about baptism in Jesus ruling over angels, his
thought process is jumping all over the place, and doesn't seem to have any real point, unless
maybe the version of 1 Peter in our Bibles is not what the author actually wrote.
When Christianity was first developing, Greek was frequently written without spaces to separate
words, nor with any distinction between uppercase or lowercase letters.
1 Peter 3, 18-22 would have looked something like this.
Ancient books were copied entirely by hand.
Imagine a scribe sitting at his desk for hours on end.
To his left, a page with this nonstop flow of unbroken text, which he is dutifully reproducing
on a blank page to his right.
It would be easy for him to weirdly misread what he was copying even if he was being careful.
What if a scribe made an error when producing one of the earliest manuscripts of 1 Peter?
Other scribes would make copies from his manuscript, reproducing any errors if they weren't already
aware of them.
Every copy of the epistle after them would contain the error, and no one would know.
Let's look at that block of text again.
Did you notice a difference between the two versions?
Unless you knew exactly where to look, it's unlikely.
1 Peter 3, 19, a little ways into that block of text, begins with these words.
Inokai, typically translated with the awkward phrasing, in which also.
This gives us a convention where 319 is usually translated as a continuation of the sentence
in 318.
He was put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit, in which also he went
and made a proclamation.
The letter ki is both visually and audibly similar to the letter kappa.
Perhaps one of the earliest scribes of 1 Peter 3, 19 accidentally left out ki, which immediately
preceded the kappa.
In this theory, 1 Peter 3, 19 should begin in Nookai, which translates as and inok.
And Inok went and made a proclamation to the spirits in prison, who in former times did
not obey, when God waited patiently in the days of Noah, during the building of the ark,
in which a few that is eight people were saved through water.
And baptism, which this prefigured, now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body,
but as an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and
powers made subject to him.
This completely changes the meaning of the paragraph.
Instead of verse 19 continuing a run on sentence from verse 18, the author is beginning a
new thought.
The result is a comprehensible summary of the roles of Inok and Noah in their correct
chronological order, as described in the Book of Watchers.
The author's thought process is no longer a blurry mess of tangled theology, but a coherent
argument organized within a chiastic structure, in which the author claims the two pre-Abrahamic
patriarchs foreshadowed the things Jesus would accomplish.
A1 Inok proclaimed judgment to the rebellious angels in their prison.
B1 Noah's family was saved through the waters of the flood.
B2 Jesus' salvation comes through the waters of baptism.
A2 Jesus' exaltation includes the subjugation of angels under his authority.
Even the New Testament Gospels can't escape the distinction.
There is, of course, ongoing debate in academia whether the Gospel authors used one Inok.
The question is genuinely difficult to answer, but let's highlight some of the arguments
in favor of the idea.
The Gospels of Mark, Matthew, and Luke identify Jesus as the Messiah.
They connect Jesus to Isaiah's suffering servant, and they call him the Son of Man,
a character whom the Gospels say will preside over the final judgment of all humanity, punishing
the wicked and rewarding the righteous.
Inside these Gospels, the similitudes are the earliest source with all of these elements.
The Gospels didn't get their portrait from Daniel 7, because the Son of Man is not the
judge in that vision.
It is possible, but seems unlikely, that the similitudes weren't the origin of the idea
that the Son of Man would be a cosmic judge.
The simpler explanation would be that the Gospels got this idea from the similitudes.
At a minimum, Mark used one Inok, and Matthew and Luke used Mark.
But it's also possible Matthew and Luke each used one Inok as well.
Some scholars have noted that genealogy for Jesus in the Gospel of Luke artificially places
exactly 70 generations between Inok and Jesus, possibly influenced by one Inok 10-12, claiming
there would be 70 generations between Inok's time and the arrival of the end of the world.
Matthew's direct use of one Inok has even stronger support.
According to the Gospels of Matthew, Luke, and Thomas, Jesus told a story about a man
who invited many people to a large dinner, but everyone he invited declined to attend.
In response to this disappointment, the man decided instead invite random people found
on the street.
Of these three Gospels, Matthew alone adds an extra scene.
When the host greets his guest, he is indignant to find someone not dressed appropriate for
the party.
Then the king said to the servants, Bind him feet and hands, throw him out into the darkness
outside.
The echo of one Inok 10-4 is hard to ignore, and he said to Raphael, Bind Azael, feet and
hands and throw him into the darkness.
Matthew's knowledge of one Inok is also felt when readers find Jesus describing the final
judgment.
Jesus said to them, Truly I tell you, at the renewal of all things, when the Son of man
is seated on the throne of his glory, you who have followed me will also sit on twelve
thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
The Son of man sitting on the throne of his glory is an idea unique to the similitudes.
On that day, my chosen one will sit on the throne of glory.
Many kings who dwell on the earth, you will have to witness my chosen one, how he will
sit on the throne of glory, and the Lord of spirits seated the chosen one upon the throne
of glory.
And the Lord of spirits seated him upon the throne of his glory, and they will see and
recognize that he sits on the throne of his glory.
And he sat on the throne of his glory, and the whole judgment was given to the Son of
man.
The Son of man has appeared and he has sat down on the throne of his glory.
This culminates in Jesus' final discourse in Matthew, a prophecy about the final judgment.
In a passage commonly titled, The Parable of the Sheep and Goats.
The prophecy begins, when the Son of man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him,
then he will sit on the throne of his glory.
All the nations will be gathered before him.
He will separate people one from another, like a shepherd separates the sheep from the
goats, and he will put the sheep at his right hand and the goats at the left.
This might as well have come straight from one Enoch's similitudes.
And one group of them will look at the other, and they will be terrified, and will cast
down their faces, and pain will seize them when they see that the Son of man is sitting
on the throne of his glory.
While many Christians today are uncomfortable with the idea that early Christians used one
Enoch to develop their theological understanding of Jesus, the Book of Enoch, complete with
the similitudes, is officially part of the biblical canon in Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity.
