One of these days one of these days Alice, so we know who's child you are
These are real people who really wrote Richard Dawkins this this is my conclusion
You it has to be true. You have to you have to have it as your previous video
This is part of your apologetic. I know a ton more
This is a mission statement
I
Welcome back to myth vision podcast
We're gonna talk about everything wrong with Christian apologetics, but we're gonna talk about some things
This is gonna be a fun discussion
You're gonna want to stay tuned all sorts of nuggets are gonna come out in this from two academics
We have Dr. Joshua Bone and a
Cereologist and you could say wouldn't you call yourself somewhat of a Hebrew Bible scholar in a way?
I mean, I'd let somebody else do that
Okay, but you wouldn't put that on your like a CV like I am I have a minor
I have a minor in Hebrew Bible in my PhD and I got a master's in theology and Old Testament studies
So okay, whatever that means you like a three-time PhD in apologetics, right? I mean I that's
Okay, and then
We got Dr. Kill here. He has like 17 bodies on him. You know, they're invisible tear drops
Yeah, cuz you see the bandana and we know what that means and then the symbol on your shirt
So we know whose child you are
so
You're obviously a Dead Sea Scroll scholar. I like obviously and
Hebrew Bible scholar
I definitely categorize that especially with our conversations about where a Dead Sea Scroll scholar is situated in that kind of conversation
My degree says religions and theology though. So, you know, depending on who you talk to I'm I'm like a
Nobody who doesn't know anything
Another degree from
PhD in apologetics, of course
And so we're gonna talk about these apologetics today. You've done a documentary actually responding to about Josh McDowell's narrative
Yeah, we we've talked before and both you off-air Dr. Josh and Kip have brought up the idea in our previous recording about
Apologists start with their conclusion and
They get upset when that gets called out online. In fact, they try to say no, we don't quit saying we start with our conclusion
It's the evidence that we're going for. So let's the spearhead this as we approach the conversation
Yeah, I mean, I don't like to say from the outset
I don't know that there's I don't know of any way that somebody can come to data without an interpretive framework
You just you just have one, right as much as you might try
It's like trying to get rid of bias like you're not gonna do it
But the key is to try to be as objective as possible when you do that
But this idea that no, we're not starting with a conclusion it based on your interpretive framework
You're already going a particular direction
You're seeing the data through that lens and that's why I think it's so important to try to engage with different interpretive frameworks
To view the data and to say do does this interpretive framework
Account for the data points better, but this idea that we we we're just coming to the data pure
No, you're not nobody as you can't I mean just look at the I mean the word
Apologetics is derived from the the Greek word apologia and it appears in is this is it's second Peter
I don't know nothing. You know
So it's it I believe it appears in in second Peter always give a defense
For for what you for the hope that you have within you
so
It is the
It's so hard to take anyone seriously when they say that no no no we're not starting from a conclusion when
The the posturing is like this first Peter 315 first Peter 315. Thank you. So
It's built into the term
like
you're starting from from the position of
belief of
acceptance of this is this is my conclusion now I have to give
Evidence for it always be ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you
So you already it's not even like a it's not even like almost a
Knowledge thing we would say where you're learning. It's this hope that's inside you
You're already trying to defend and I would almost call that an experience for most people. Absolutely. I went to a
I and I think this is this is something that that is is quite common
I
Went I went to a
Like a Christian discipleship school right out of right out of high school in in Auckland, New Zealand and we spent
One of the things that that they that everyone focused on and they kind of drilled into us
was developing your own personal testimony and
Learning crafting your narrative
And we worked on it and we practiced it and we had
And we had a
Like a point at the end of the at the end of the term where everybody stood up and and and gave their testimony and we received feedback
On you know, what we what people liked him what we should do differently. So I think there's there's a
there's a focus on
On on telling the story right as and this is part of your apologetic
This is what I focused on when I made that documentary of Josh McDowell, right was just how much his own personal story
came to inform
Uh, his his um, I guess his his
His whole method uh for promoting the gospel. Yeah. Well, I mean I think that so often
um
Just to sort of piggyback on that so often there's this idea among
Christian apologists in particular
Where they will say well, we're not you know, we're not starting with our conclusion
What we've done is we've we've done all this research. We've done all this work and we've come to
this conclusion
Right and but the reality is that as you're sort of intimating here
They've had an experience, right and when you when you talk to me really it's
So few people that I interact with that are speaking to me of any kind of honesty are saying I was like logic into my christianity
Right, I it was just overwhelming the evidence from archaeology
It proved to me like there are just so few people that say that no they say look
I I I had a personal experience with Jesus Christ and and uh, you know, I I know that he's my lord and savior and
And hey, you know what that's great
But I think being able to recognize that because what happens then is you
You you come then to the data with that conclusion in mind
And so I have a friend and that's what I was looking up here
But you know, he wrote his dissertation on daniel and looking at the the figure
Potential figure of sax, or he's the second has a potential for um derise the mead
But he has this note
And I wrote in the book that it's far from objective, right because listen to what he says
Most importantly, Daniel was a prophet who wrote infallibly under the inspiration of the holy spirit
Whereas extra biblical sources for the life of syris are ordinary human writings
Since god was speaking through daniel as he wrote
The book of daniel is not to be viewed as an account of uncertain trustworthiness
Whose veracity is to be judged by other data
But rather must be the standard by which all other accounts are measured
You you there's there's nowhere to go from there. No, that is the essence of christian apologetics
And you know, I have to say something josh and and kip
This is me again, right trying to analyze and get into the mind. There are several smart
Uh, and I say smart as in like these people are well read. They've read a lot of uh church fathers
I like to say they've read a lot of material and they've mainly focused on with that really leaning into stuff
I like I hear people who lean into lydia and tim mcgrew. Okay, and they're like
Think these guys are like the like really up there in the top 10 scholars on new testament studies
I got a friend of mine jeff trip who
They're gonna be you know hearing from soon who did a critique of bakum on his eyewitness testimony stuff
He wrote a book actually criticizing bakums john eyewitness the gospel of john like
So many things jesus doesn't even get his own words right in that gospel compared to his own words in earlier places
But the people who are his enemies do
He goes in down into the nitty gritty into the greek and source material and stuff like a whole textual critic would but
I one day he he had a medical procedure taken place. So he's laid up for a few days
He said what's that book called again? So I ended up getting him the book
lydia mcgrew's book and I said hey read this book
Since you got the time start reading he started reading it
We had a phone conversation
I'm not going to go into the details because I want to tease people till they see but he was just like
She just outright says nothing else matters, but the new testament and like I'm not I don't care about any other sources
I'm literally only caring about this. It's outright coming forward and these very
Sophisticated they write well. They're shoot their grammar is way better than mine
I mean, I don't even get sentences right half the time and i'm listening to them and i'm going
You are so driven in and I just have to think bias. I mean
You're you it has to be true. You have to you have to have it as your previous video
Yeah, and I'm like I can't it does have to be true though
because
Because of the emotional attachment to it
Right like this is one of the things that you'll find in common. I I think with most
with most of of of the more popular apologist is
is
This feature right there is a strong emotional attachment
at the start
Lee strobel
Had had his wife had a conversion experience that
Greatly influenced him in in in his pursuit
um, josh mcdowell
similar sort of thing he had this he had this this this
Rotten upbringing as a child and and ended up coming to faith through
Through these these friendships he made with these super nice people at college, right?
You know, I've heard mike winger talk about his
His is his terrible childhood and and just how much how much love and affection he received as a teenager in church
Which led him to christ and and I mean you could go you go on and on
about how how these people have made an investment
an a
deep emotional investment
uh
that
at this point
feel
prompted to defend
At all costs it seems. Yeah
um, so it really doesn't like like
What you're saying is true nothing else really matters at this point except for holding on to
What this this deep emotional attachment?
That uh that people have that come through faith. I want to add real quick josh
I know you can probably add to this
I feel like and this is just my subjective little opinion here
That's the more sophisticated apologist that we run into i'll put like inspiring philosophy on this list things like that
Are actually trying to use I would use this term negotiate. They're trying to negotiate with the sophisticated
Actual critical scholarship out there in some way now. They're not willing to negotiate in many ways
But they're trying to negotiate with the more like let's go to john waltin
Let's stop acts acting like ex knee hello or you know, let's find a way to get a guy who's smart enough who's who's
Who's playing with real serious academic stuff? He gets stuff right often maybe michael hyzer on certain things for example
Um, and then they and then there's some things where you go, dude
Really? Yeah, you know like you really buy like michael hyzer lived that worldview
He really thought there's things going on like right now as we speak and you know the whole nine so
So no, I was going to say at this point you have to ask the question
Who are these people speaking to are is does this become now?
At this point at this level that we're talking about where you're you're having to develop these these sophisticated
um arguments to maintain this this worldview. Is this still about
Uh defending your faith to critics
Or is this more about
standing for
Those who are like-minded in your own community and defending everybody and everything that they believe against
Becoming the the tribe or the village um hero and and and we are
In in a lot of respects the the local dragon that needs to be slain sure
And they're defending it and so there's a lot of people who aren't doing that rigorous work
Even on the level of people like hyzer or waltin or whoever it might be that you might throw in the category because I tend to
Think moulton's even more than than what you see with hyzer. So um, but like I'm looking at it and I'm going okay
They're trying to negotiate those are the ones that are pretty sophisticated in their approach
But I heard it once said by a scholar and I'm not going to name names
But they they said something that I thought was really interesting about apologetics
You mentioned it's just like for our community. I'm kind of preaching it to my choir. I think that's true
I also think it might be true that they think it's intellectual and they're like hey if it's true
Then it's obviously logical rational. It's the most sensical because it's true
Starting with that that that experience leading them there
But I really think that the real reason that might boil down for a lot of them
This is me psychoanalyzing, but I do think it's the case is they're convincing themselves
They're trying to tell that person in the mirror
Hey, what you're believing in isn't silly
Put those doubts down
You have the most rational true belief in the world and convincing themselves
I did not go on this path to listen to michael michael
Wasn't michael lakona. I heard him once or twice because he was younger when I first started to get into the scene. It was um
William lane craig. It was ravie saccharias
It was these guys. I read the case for christ and the case for creator
Lee strobel these guys were really trying to and it was my journey at first to know that it was true for myself
Along that path is sort of going. Oh, I can argue this online
And I can convince others to try and get christians on the right track
But also stand up to skeptics and tell them why i'm not an idiot for believing in my particular fundamentalist position or something
You know because I think they feel that we think they're idiots and we don't
I think that there is a sense in which the brain is kind of hijacked though
to
argue for things that
Again to your point of the the grip, you know
but I mean like
There's something that happens
when
you dedicate enough time to a particular
subject matter
to
Like get a phd in it. There's something that happens and
it's you realize
The vast nature of the data that needs to be mastered in order to understand it
and
One of the things and i'm thinking back to my 26 years as a fundamentalist evangelical
When I was like two-thirds of the way through my master's degree
I
And even before that
But maybe up to that point
Uh
I would have felt and did feel at times comfortable walking and marching in
To any pastor any scholar walking in and saying
I know what all the books on your shelf say
But you don't know what i'm getting ready to tell you. I was a mid-axe dispensationalist
Right, so like I could I could go through the bible and like
Like shout out all these verses, right?
This connects to this connects to this and this develops this and this proves this and this connects up here to axe
And this one goes back here to rooms
Right, I knew
That I knew
Everything about it, right?
And I always give this example
You know if you're walking down a hallway and you're like 50 feet from the door at the end
And the door is open and you're looking into the other room
You can only see this much of the room. It's whatever the width of the door is
But just because you're 50 feet from it your line of sight won't allow anymore
If you take five steps forward, how much more of that room can you see?
Out of 50 feet not much not much, right? You're seeing until you're right up on it, but man
You've taken five steps forward think about all the grounds you've covered my god
What you now understand must be immensely more
It's not until you get all the way down in that room and you stop
And you turn around and see that this is a three-story library
All this data that you
What what you have to master has now
exponentially grown
but
You've gone so much further, but you know relatively so much less
And this I am convinced is the experience of people in the church
Experience of people online, right people that haven't had the fight
And I'm not I'm trying to say that I was very very fortunate
To have the experience to walk down that hallway and get all the way into that room
But I realize now how little I know
comparatively speaking now. I know a fuck ton more
right
I was waiting for it, but there's no way I'm going to be able to master all the data that's in this three-story library
You do know what you just did though. You literally gave a story of dunning kruger
Literally told us the dunning kruger effect. It was just a polite way of saying it because people don't like to hear that
We all have experienced. I mean, I'm sure that you did. I know that I did on that journey to that room
You you go through these stages. I read a book. I read two books
Oh boy, and this one came up with something
I've never heard before and it must be brilliant because it's it's answering all the questions
And there's a really funny way of how people's
Interpretive models seem to account for all the data points because if you don't know what all the data points are
This model can seem to fit it and that's the issue here
So when you when you read an article from 1983 and it's five pages long and it says look here's
And this right six pages. Sorry. And look here's a chiastic structure that accounts for everything
Well, if you can't read goddamn Sumerian, right? Or you can't read a cation or you haven't worked at these times
Why latch on to that little article from 1983 then? Yeah, it's it's just there's there's so much out there
And again, I was as guilty of this as anybody
But I just I guess what I'm saying is like there's an anti intellectualism out there
Yeah, and then anti intellectualism I think comes from a place of
I don't want to feel insecure in what I know
I don't want to have to say
These people that have dedicated 15 years of their lives to grad school
And have been doing this in the field for 20 years or 30 years or whatever that that that they
They know more than I do about this and I'm not going to be able to attain that level
Uh, unless I go do what it is that they do or I have some crazy high IQ
And I'm in a very fortunate circumstance to be able to dedicate just tons and tons of time to reading
um
and and the the issue here I think
Is that bolstering this is the online access that we have
To information that we don't actually know is not reputable
And if you can read it somewhere and it makes sense and it fits the data points and it sort of tickles your
You know that your your
Desire that didn't make any sense as an analogy
Um
But it but it satisfies the longing that you have to answer these it's so easy to grab on to that because you don't know
What's in that room?
You just know this a little bit that you see I like that. I like I like that uh Dennis mcdonald
I did a recording with him. There was a four panel responding to some of his memetic work
We had Steven Boyce. We had eric manning from
The christian apologist channel. That's right. Yeah, then we had timet grew and then we had
I can't remember the fourth person. Oh, um that that yeah, and so, um Dennis responded
And he saw the whole stream that they did
We did a response video later on but this was while I was in california recorded and he says derrick
I'm gonna say this very kindly Dennis is one of the most soft humbling guys if you talk to him
He wouldn't hurt a fly. In fact, I hope he sticks around for another 20 years because it's sad
This guy's that he's been he's been even in academia not treated the way he could be
Believe it or not, but the problem is what he knows is a skill
There was a time in the 70s and 60s that they were actually training
A mixture of new testament and classicist to learn the greek and go back into homer and actually learn this material
New testament scholars aren't told or trained to read this stuff
This is something that he has a specialty on and it's a very very niche
specialty, which puts him already on the outside of most new testament scholars, but
He said eric, I'm gonna say this about them and I don't mean this disrespectful, but
They are intellectual
Anti-intellectuals. Yeah
Yes, exactly
And it hit I was like
Because they're smart. Yeah. Oh, yeah, but they are working against
The data the evidence that they're trying
To do something rather than work with what scholarship is actually saying here, you know, it did
And I I I am benefiting from that
But a lot of people don't have that luxury right they have to go out under the workforce
They have families you have to take care of and they get to a place where it's like I
I'm not going to be able to
Have the money have the time to go get a master's degree and then go get a phd
Like I'm just not gonna have time to do it, but I want to know right I want to be
Somebody that is an authority on this. So what do I do? Well?
Like
I think people just say well if I just if I just read it, you know
The right people or if I if I just
You know get under the the right scholar on youtube or something and then I read what they tell me
Like then then I can I can I can battle with the best of them
And it can it's a it can seem that you really have a command of the data
It can feel like you have a command of the data and you just
You just don't you've only moved a couple feet down that hallway. You just don't know it
And so then it builds this
This confidence that then you hear people say when they get in frustrating circumstances. Oh
So-called dr. Bowen so called dr. Davis
Right and uh, and that's what that that's sort of thing more recently on biller
User has been has been accusing me now of of what is it?
It's uh, it's my it's my my white western
elitist
historicist
bias
Like I I
I don't even know what to do with that like in what context
as as as a means of of uh,
basically of of saying
This is what historical criticism is is is it's it's it's an attempt to
it's taking a modern method and and
Ham fistingly, you know applying it to these ancient texts as a means to to try and understand them
But can't possibly because it's not getting inside the
I think inside the milieu or inside that but it is it's a it's a form of this this kind of
uh, intellectual anti-intellectualism. Yeah, where you you apply a label
To someone, you know liberal scholars poisoning the wells or yeah, it's a it's a way of uh, of
I I think dismissing
uh
The stuff that that you you either that either
Frightens you or you don't understand. Yeah, or or both, right? Um
you know
because it it's
Yeah, I just when I when I read stuff like that, I just shake my head and I'm just like you you just you just have no
You just have no idea how a hard
scholars work
To to try and understand the literature on its own level. Yeah, right?
um
which
Which is what we're doing like that's the I you know, maybe that's that's another way to understand the difference between
Uh between critical scholars and apologists
You know apologists are trying to make sense
Of the literature the the the bible within
Within this context that that works for them in the here and now
right
Scholars are trying to make sense of the biblical texts
In their world. Yeah
and
You have to of course this means you have to
You have to employ techniques that have techniques and methods that have been developed over
You know hundreds of years
Uh in order to in order to access this stuff
Uh and and understand it as as best as we can
But at the heart of it, that's the goal
is to try and
get to
The point of the literature
In its own time in its own place and to make this
accessible and understandable to people in the modern world. Yeah, and uh, you know, I think that that's
one of the one of the things that um, I think
Surprised me the most when I when I I the the deeper I got into
My own critical studies of the bible
Was just how weird
and strange
the text
Actually is in this world really is because I never because
From in my own upbringing in my own, uh, modern christian context. I was always
Told that this is this is something that was written for me now
So it's got to be understandable in the here and now, right?
Uh and and the thing that that just blows my mind more and more as I dig into this literature
Is just how far away
We are yeah for here and now from
What these texts are and where they came from and what they were, you know
For whom they were written and and the purposes for the for for whom they were written it's
it's just it's
Yeah, it's one of those mind blowing things. Yeah, I mean it comments like this
And I noticed because my computer gives you like a little corner notification. I just glanced over for a second
You will hate it when god has the last laugh
He purposefully put just enough there to make you go the way you want the game has rules called faith
This is the other thing that I find
um, and this could go a completely different direction, but
Maybe not
I think there's a security
in
Apologists certain apologists
When it comes to this apocalyptic idea
because like I wrote that chapter in that um
In that religious volume on violence and genocide and like evangelical morals
And and how they wrestle with morality in the old testament
And one of the things that I talked about is and I see this online and you just gave an example of it
So many apologists
Are not only looking to deal with these passages about violence and genocide in a way that allows them to sleep at night
Instead
Much worse
They're taking pleasure
In these passages
Like, uh, I know you guys have seen this video. I'm sure but you know skylark fiction and I did an interview
With a a young man. Oh, yeah, and skylark said, you know something to him like so if god
You know if god commanded you to
Do away with a small person
Um
Would you do it or no? He said would it be moral and the guy said, yeah
Um, I would do it if god commanded me to do it. Yeah
And he said you you would
Off a small person if god commanded you and the guy said, yeah, oh, yeah
And of course I put the Kool-Aid, you know, yeah, oh, yeah, you know on top of it, but um
But oh my gosh, but I mean think about that
It's it's this
It's this apocalyptic mindset because look, we're the persecuted group. We're the ones that are suffering
We're the ones that are having to take it on the chin right now, but but just you wait
Just you wait. Yep. Like god comes back. Yeah. I mean, I'm thinking of someone that we won't mention their name
Very specifically now, you know, like a staircase uh up to when abraham offered the staircase
um
You know like this person
Is looking forward to putting his foot on our necks
Yeah, if you go if you want to get a chuckle, but also see how deep this goes
um love letters from christians
um
To richard docan's if you have not watched that
We'll have to watch it after we're done recording here so you can see it's very short
But it is the funniest and saddest thing at the same time
You're laughing because you're going how ridiculous you you'll see why but there are moments where you're going
These are real people who really wrote richard docan's this and they're christians and yeah, it's like well
God's hate works for my hate here on this and if it even if it's not a political thing and oftentimes it is
Something social or ethical or political or something like that
Sometimes it's just heaven and hell like right here
They're not happy with the fact that james tabore
Literally says that the new testament gospel is contradicting. There's a problem. Yeah, somebody's not telling the truth
There's somebody's being inaccurate or something and that person got so mad you will hate you all hate it when god has the last laugh
It's like what yeah, what is going on here great god, you know
and that and that's the thing like
When people bring up
Like passages like psalm 137 and you know the lament and you know happier is happy as he bashes your
Heads against the rocks like
And and the apologetic standard apologetic is oh look, this is a lament. This isn't god come in this command
Like why this is a like why this is a thing throughout the psalms?
Like this is this is the intent of god is to to bring about these violent acts, right? This is not an anomaly. It's just a very
Uh, like straightforward way of picturing it
But certainly that's not a that's not an idea that he's always standing back going what no
My gosh, I didn't say kids
And and but the the thing is I I think that
that mindset
Again, particularly in the apocalyptic genres. You can't help but read through revelation as a christian and feel like yeah
One of these days one of these days alice, you know, and um
That was a really bad example use. I'm sorry
But you know like
I I said at the end of that article
um
Even though apologists will say look vengeance is mine say at the lord. I will repay right
Um, there are two things that always stand out to me one when you know that it's coming
It can be very difficult and it was for me
For a christian to not think of ways to help the process along. Yeah, right, right?
And secondly if you know that your lord hates a certain group of people and will destroy them if you were to come back right now
It's pretty easy to hate that group as well
Even if it's and to want to destroy them too. Yeah, I mean look at
Yeah, I the the terrifying thing in this is is so much of this literature
What apocalyptic literature is is it's literature of persecution?
Yeah, it's it's written under conditions of duress and trauma
The terrifying thing about this is that this has become reified literature
And now it's it's it's this this literature that was written under duress and trauma
But now in the hands
Of the powerful. Yes, exactly. That's the scary part. That's the terrifying. That's the terrifying piece
In all of this. It's interesting. You say that this why I love scholarship
This why like secular academia even my investigation into islam and and understanding the cultural milieu the history
What's going on in arabia the whole nine? There's a scholar named steven. Um, no, uh, steven and I can't remember his last name
But anyway, he's written on this whole um apocalypticism in the time of muhammad and how empires were
The the new apocalypticism by then according to what he's arguing is pretty much a race for
Whichever empire's winning is the one god's gonna favor and give like at the end
So now it's not a i'm the weakest and god's gonna vindicate us. It's a race for human involvement
To to become the most supreme empire so that god then favors you and you win
And so that's why the conquest uh makes a lot of sense and earlier islam conquest
And why these nations are battling it out over and over from the persians over here with uh, the soya's the soya said and then also dealing with
Constantinople the remaining
Part of rom that is even there and the roman catholic or the catholic church period because there's various sex arguing
But like it's interesting what you just said because today you can take that to like bush
And the things he was saying when they went we went to the middle east with tanks the whole nine like he's thinking
We're the sword of god. Yeah, no, it was a very interesting uh back in i think it was 2000
It was it was probably 2005 2006 maybe a little bit before that
um
the society of biblical literature used uh used to publish a uh an online forum
And in one of them, uh, they featured
Uh, I think it was four or five papers by scholars where they specifically
uh pulled apart
uh bush's speeches
and and uh analyze them on the basis of
Uh, the the apocalyptic language that he was employing
Wow, and you know just pointing it, you know directly pulling this stuff straight out of out of the bible
And looking at it in in the context in which bush was speaking and saying what this is
The there is a this is a mission statement
Uh, this is about
This is about being exactly that
uh the the
Sword of god. Yeah in this uh in this battle against uh against the forces of darkness when I think about what you said
about
You know apocalyptic literature
starting off with
The oppressed
Right and it being this hang on just a little bit longer. You can make it survive. Don't give in
Um, and then it going into the hands of the of the of the powerful
I mean it really is akin to if like a little kid is getting bullied by a 13 year old
Right out on the docks and all of a sudden that that 13 year old boy finds himself in his admiral father's battleship
Right and and they're looking down from the battleship on this 13 year old bully and they're going to blow him up
You know, it's like whoa like
It's it's different now, right? You're not the 13 year old
You're the 13 year old with the battleship owning father, right? Like this is this is different and um
And and the thing is it's that 13 year old boy thinking or that that younger boy being picked on thinking that
Um, he's still in that position. He actually believes he's being persecuted and wants to
enact all the power that he can get behind him and the reality is
He's the one in charge and I'm sure there's several more things that you know
When we do stop this recording that come to mind that we
Have run into examples ideas that just christian apologetics
And we are emphasizing christian, but that's because we all three were okay. This does not limit itself
Okay, just so everybody knows this can go for jewish apologists. This can go for muslim apologists
This can go for any and all apologists really technically
That are out there trying to defend their conclusions that they're starting with and richard c miller when I interviewed him
Not too long ago in california. He said something interesting that goes along with this intellectual stuff
You're talking about with the education
and he's like
Derek there's it's not honest in terms of like getting to the
The grip thing we're talking about in the previous video. It's not honest
Conclusions he said because where they're making their converts are you know at christian camp the summer camp
They're making them in the local church. You're not
There is not this mass conversion as gary haver mass was confronted by pine creek the one time
You know, I haven't watched him in a long time, but on that episode. He's like
Gary, can you give me this list of academics who were skeptical atheists who approached this material and then were convinced?
Oh my god, the evidence is just so obvious waiting for the list
Yeah, like why is that and you know it wasn't it's not that it's something else
Well, I think it's worth pointing out that um, I mean i'm i'm 50 years old
So I I remember a time before you could you could just go and buy
Whatever book you wanted on amazon the place where christian apologetic books were sold
Was in christian bookstores the people who were buying them the people who bought
william lane craig and lee strobel and
Ravi zacharias and some of and josh mcdowell these old school guys
They're christians
Yeah, when they would go on speaking tours
They spoke in churches
uh
josh mcdowell uh came to to
uh vancouver
once
When I was when I was still in bible college
And uh, and I went to go see him and he was in a church
Wasn't at a university yeah
These guys aren't
I mean they are it's it's much easier for for these guys now. I think because of because of the internet and because of the
the
The global reach that that that has provided but in the old days
It was all
It was a ghetto
It all stayed in house you sold your books in the christian bookstores to christians
And you went on your speaking tours at the churches to talk to christians
Well, I hope you enjoyed that video. There's so much more we could get into no doubt and uh, thank you
