One of these days, one of these days, Alice, you know.
Can we know whose child you are?
Um, so I'm like, nobody who doesn't know anything.
These are real people who really wrote Richard Dawkins this?
This is my conclusion.
You, it has to be true.
You have to, you have to have it as your previous video.
This is part of your apologetic.
Now I know I'll f***ing ton more.
What?
What?
What?
This is a mission statement.
Welcome back to Mid-Fishin' Podcast.
We're going to talk about everything wrong with Christian apologetics.
But we're going to talk about some things.
This could be a fun discussion.
You're going to want to stay tuned.
All sorts of nuggets are going to come out in this from two academics.
We have Dr. Joshua Bowen and a seriologist.
And you could say, wouldn't you call yourself somewhat of a Hebrew Bible scholar in a way?
I mean, I'm glad somebody else do that.
Okay.
But you want to put that on your like a CV like I am.
I have a minor.
I have a minor Hebrew Bible on my PhD and I got a master's in Theology and Old Testament studies.
So whatever that is.
You got a three-time PhD in apologetics, right?
I mean, I, that's shh.
Okay.
Keep going down.
We got Dr. Kill here.
He has like 17 bodies on him.
You have the, they're invisible tear drops.
They're invisible tear drops.
Yeah, because she's a bandana and we know what that means.
And then the sizzle on your shirt.
So we know whose child you are.
So you're obviously a Dead Sea School scholar.
I like that.
And Hebrew Bible scholar.
I definitely categorize that, especially with our conversations about where a Dead Sea
School scholar is situated in that kind of conversation.
My degree says religions and theology though.
So, you know, depending on who you talk to, I'm like a nobody who doesn't know anything.
Another big degree from a PhD in apologetics, of course.
And so we're going to talk about these apologetics today.
You've done a documentary actually responding to about Josh McDowell's narrative.
We've talked before and both you, off air, Dr. Josh and Kip, have brought up the idea
in our previous recording about apologists start with their conclusion and they get upset
when that gets called out online.
In fact, they try to say, no, we don't quit saying you start with our conclusion.
It's the evidence that we're going for.
So let's spearhead this as we approach the conversation.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't like to say from the outset, I don't know that there's, I don't know of
any way that somebody can come to data without an interpretive framework.
You just, you just have one, right?
As much as you might try, it's like trying to get rid of bias, like you're not going
to do it.
The key is to try to be as objective as possible when you do that.
But this idea that, no, we're not starting with a conclusion, it, based on your interpretive
framework, you're already going a particular direction.
You're seeing the data through that lens.
And that's why I think it's so important to try to engage with different interpretive
frameworks to view the data and to say, does this interpretive framework account for the
data points better?
But this idea that we're just coming to the data pure, you're not nobody as you can.
I mean, just look at the, I mean, the word apologetics is derived from the Greek word
apologia.
And it appears in, is this second Peter?
I don't know.
Yeah.
So it's, I believe it appears in second Peter, always give a defense for what you, for the
hope that you have within you.
So it is the, it's so hard to take anyone seriously when they say that, no, no, no,
we're not starting from the conclusion when the, the posture is like this first Peter
315 first Peter, first Peter 315.
So it's built into the term, like, you're starting from, from the position
of belief, of acceptance, of this is, this is my conclusion.
Now I have to give evidence for it.
Always be ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope
that is in you.
So you already, it's not even like a, it's not even like almost a knowledge thing we
would say where you're learning, it's this hope that's inside you, you're already trying
to defend and I would almost call that an experience for most people.
Absolutely.
I went to a, and I think this is, this is something that is, is quite common.
I went, I went to a, like, like a Christian discipleship school right out of, right out
of high school in, in Auckland, New Zealand.
And we spent one of the things that, that they, that everyone focused on and they kind
of drilled into us was developing your own personal testimony and learning, crafting
your narrative.
And we worked on it and we practiced it and we had, and we had a, a, like a point at
the end of the, at the end of the term where everybody stood up and, and, and gave their
testimony over to see feedback on, you know, what we, what people liked and what we
should do differently.
So I think there's, there's a, there's a focus on, on, on telling the story, right?
As, and this is part of your apologetic.
This is what I focused on when I made that documentary of Josh McDowell, right?
Was just how much his own personal story came to inform his, his, um, I guess his,
his, uh, his, his whole method, uh, for promoting the gospel.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I think that so often, um, just to sort of piggyback on that, so often
there's this idea among Christian apologists in particular, where they will say, we're
not, you know, we're not starting with our conclusion.
What we've done is we, we've done all this research, we've done all this work and we've
come to this conclusion, right?
And, but the reality is that as, as you're sort of intimating here, they've had an
experience, right?
And when you, when you talk to me, really it's so few people that I interact with that
are speaking to me with any kind of honesty are saying, I was like, logic into my Christianity.
Right.
I did was just overwhelming the evidence from archaeology.
It proved to be like, they're just so few people that say that.
No, they say, look, I, I, I have a personal experience with Jesus Christ.
And, and, uh, you know, I, I know that he's my Lord and Savior and, and hey, you know
what, that's great.
But I think being able to recognize that, because what happens then is you, you, you
come then to the data with that conclusion in mind.
And so I have a friend, and that's what I was looking up here, but he wrote his
dissertation on Daniel and looking at the, the figure, uh, potential figure of
Saxon, he's the second has a potential for, um, derise the meat, but he has this
note and I wrote in the book that it's far from objective, right?
Because listen to what he says.
Most importantly, Daniel was a prophet who wrote infallibly under the inspiration of
the Holy spirit, whereas extravival sources for the life of Cyrus are ordinary
human writings.
Since God was speaking through Daniel, as he wrote, the book of Daniel is not to be
viewed as an account of uncertain trustworthiness, whose veracity is to be judged
by other data, but rather must be the standard by which all other accounts are
measured.
You, you, there's, there's nowhere to go from there.
That is the essence of Christian apologetics.
And you know, I have to say something, Josh and, and Kip, this is me again, right?
Trying to analyze and get into the mind.
There are several smart, uh, and I say smart as in like, these people are well read.
They've read a lot of, uh, uh, church fathers.
I like to say they've read a lot of material and they've mainly focused on
with that really leaning into stuff.
I like, I hear people who lean into Lydia and Tim McGrew.
Okay.
And then like, think these guys are like the, like really up there in the top 10
scholars on New Testament studies.
I got a friend of mine, Jeff Tripp, who they're going to be, you know, hearing
from soon who did a critique of Bacchum on his eyewitness testimony stuff.
He wrote a book actually criticizing Bacchum's John eyewitness, the gospel of
John, like so many things.
Jesus doesn't even get his own words right in that gospel compared to his own
words in earlier places, but the people who are his enemies do, he goes in
down into the nitty gritty to the Greek and source material and stuff like the
whole textual credit would, but I, one day he, he had a medical procedure
taken place.
So he's laid up for a few days.
He said, what's that book called again?
So I ended up getting him the book, uh, Lydia McGrew's book.
And I said, Hey, read this book since you got the time, start reading.
He started reading it.
We had a phone conversation.
I'm not going to go into the details cause I want to tease people till they
see, but he was just like, she just outright says nothing else matters, but
the new Testament.
And like, I'm not, I don't care about any other sources.
I'm literally only caring about this.
It's outright coming forward.
And these very sophisticated, they write well, they're shoot their
grammar is way better than mine.
I mean, I don't even get sentences right half the time and I'm listening to them
go on, you are so driven in, I just have to think bias.
I mean, you're, you, it has to be true.
You have to, you have to have it as your previous video.
Yeah.
And I'm like, I can't, it does have to be true though, because, because of the
emotional attachment to it, right?
Like this is one of the things that you'll find in common, I, I think with
most, with most of the more popular apologists is, is this feature, right?
There is a strong emotional attachment at the start.
Lee Strobel had, had his wife had a conversion experience that greatly influenced
him in, in, in his pursuit, Josh McDowell, similar sort of thing.
He had this, he had this, this, this rotten upbringing as a child and ended up
coming to faith through, through these, these friendships he made with these
super nice people at college, right?
You know, I've heard Mike Winger talk about his, his, his, his terrible
childhood and just how much, how much love and affection he received as a
teenager in church, which, which led him to Christ.
And, and, and I mean, you could go, you go on and on about how, how these
people have made an investment and a deep emotional investment that at this
point feel prompted to defend at all costs, it seems.
Yeah.
Um, so it really doesn't, like, like what you're saying is true.
Nothing else really matters at this point, except for holding on to what this,
this deep emotional attachment that, uh, that people have that come through faith.
I want to add real quick, Josh, I know you can probably add to this.
I feel like, and this is just my subjective little opinion here, that the
more sophisticated apologists that we run into, I'll put like inspiring philosophy
on this list, things like that, are actually trying to use, I would use this
term, negotiate, they're trying to negotiate with the sophisticated actual
critical scholarship out there in some way.
Now they're not willing to negotiate in many ways, but they're trying to negotiate
with the more like, let's go to John Walton, let's stop acts, acting like X
knee, hello, or, or, you know, let's find a way to get a guy who's smart enough,
who's, who's, who's playing with real serious academic stuff.
He gets stuff right off them, maybe Michael Heiser on certain things, for
example.
Um, and then they, and then there's some things where you go, dude, really?
You know, like you really buy, like Michael Heiser lived that old view.
He really thought there's things going on, like right now as we speak.
And, you know, the whole nine.
So, so no, I was going to say at this point, you have to ask the question,
who are these people speaking to?
Are these, does this become now at, at this point, at this level that we're
talking about, where you're, you're having to develop these, these
sophisticated, um, arguments to maintain this, this worldview.
Is this still about, uh, defending your faith to critics?
Or is this more about standing for those who are like-minded in your own
community and defending everybody and everything that they believe against?
Becoming the, the tribe or the village, um, hero.
And, and, and we are, in a lot of respects, the, the local dragon that needs
to be slain and they're defending it.
And so there's a lot of people who aren't doing that rigorous work, even on
the level of people like Heiser or Walton or whoever it might be that you
might throw in the category.
Cause I tend to think Malton's even more, uh, than, than what you see with Heiser.
So, um, but like I'm looking at it and I'm going, okay, they're trying to negotiate.
Those are the ones that are pretty sophisticated in their approach.
But I heard it once said by a scholar and I'm not going to name any of these, but
they, they said something that I thought was really interesting about apologetics.
You mentioned it's just like for our community.
I'm, I'm kind of preaching it to my choir.
I think that's true.
I also think it might be true that they think it's intellectual and they're
like, Hey, if it's true, then it's obviously logical, rational.
It's the most sensical cause it's true starting with that, that experience
leading there.
But I really think that the real reason that might boil down for a lot of them,
this is me psychoanalyzing, but I do think it's the case is that convincing
themselves, they're trying to tell that person in the mirror, Hey, what you're
believing in isn't silly, put those doubts down.
You have the most rational, true belief in the world and convincing themselves.
I did not go on this path to listen to Michael, Michael, what Michael Kona?
I heard him once or twice, but he was younger when I first started to get
into the scene.
It was, um, William Lynn Craig, it was Robbie Zacharias.
It was these guys, I read the case for Christ and the case for creator, Lee
Strobel, these guys were really trying to, and it was my journey at first to
know that it was true for myself along that path.
That's really good.
Oh, I can argue this online and I can convince others to try and get
Christians on the right track, but also stand up to skeptics and tell them why
I'm not an idiot for believing in my particular fundamentalist position or
something, you know, cause I think they feel that we think they're idiots and we
don't, I think that there is a sense in which the brain is kind of hijacked
though, to argue for things that, again, to your point with the grit, you know,
but I mean, like there's, there's something that happens when you dedicate
enough time to a particular, uh, subject matter to like get a PhD in it.
There's something that happens and it's, you realize the vast nature of the
data that needs to be mastered in order to understand it.
And one of the things that I'm thinking back to my 26 years as a fundamentalist
evangelical, when I was like two thirds of the way through my master's degree, I,
and even before that, but maybe up to that point, uh, I would have felt and did
feel at times comfortable walking and marching in to any pastor, any scholar
walking in and saying, I know what all the books on your shelf say, but you
don't know what I'm getting ready to tell you.
I was a mid-ex dispensationalist, right?
So like I could, I could go through the Bible and like, shout out all these
verses, right?
This connects to this, connects to this, and this develops this, and this proves
this, and this connects up here to acts.
And this one goes back here to rumble, right?
I knew that I knew everything about it, right?
Um, and I always give this example, you know, if you're walking down a
hallway and you're like 50 feet from the door at the end, and the doors open
and you're looking into the other room, you can only see this much of the room.
It's whatever the width of the door is, but you're stupid because you're 50 feet
from your line of sight won't allow anymore.
If you take five steps forward, how much more of that room can you see?
How about 50 feet?
Not much, not much, right?
Until you're right up on it.
But man, you've taken five steps forward.
Think about all the ground you covered.
My God, what you now understand must be immensely more.
It's not until you get all the way down in that room and you stop and you turn
around and see that this is a three story library.
All this data that you, what, what you have to master has now exponentially grown,
but you've gone so much further, but you know, relatively so much less.
And this I am convinced is the experience of people in the church, experience
of people online, right?
People that haven't had the fight and I'm not, I'm trying to say that I was
very, very fortunate to have the experience.
So walk down that hallway and get all the way into that room.
But I realize now how little I know, comparatively speaking.
Now I know a ton more, right?
But there's no way I'm going to be able to master all the data that's in
this three story library.
You do know what you just did though.
You literally gave a story of Dunning-Kruger.
Literally told us the Dunning-Kruger effect.
It was just a polite way of saying it because people don't like to hear that.
We all have experienced, I mean, I'm sure that you did.
I know that I did on that journey to that room.
You go through these states.
Well, I read a book, I read two books.
Oh boy. And this one came up with something I've never heard before.
And it must be brilliant because it's answering all the questions.
And there's a really funny way of how people's interpretive models seem to
account for all the data points.
Because if you don't know what all the data points are, this model can seem to fit it.
And that's the issue here.
So when you read an article from 1983 and it's five pages long and it says, look,
here's a red six pages.
Sorry.
And look, here's a chastic structure that accounts for everything.
Well, if you can't read God damn Sumerian, right?
Or you can't read Acadian or you never worked with these things.
I'll match on to that little article from 1983 then.
It's just there's there's so much out there.
And again, I was as guilty of this as anybody.
But I just I guess what I'm saying is like there's an anti-intellectualism out there.
And that anti-intellectualism, I think comes from a place of I don't want to feel
insecure in what I know.
I don't want to have to say these people that have dedicated 15 years of their
lives to grad school and have been doing this in the field for 20 years or 30 years
or whatever, that they they know more than I do about this.
And I'm not going to be able to attain that level.
Unless I go do what it is that they do, or I have some crazy high IQ and I'm
in a very fortunate certain sense, be able to dedicate just tons of time to reading.
And the issue here, I think, is that bolstering this is the online access
that we have to information that we don't actually know is not reputable.
And if you can read it somewhere and it makes sense and it fits the data points
and it sort of tickles your desire that didn't make any sense of the analogy.
But it satisfies the longing that you have to answer these.
It's so easy to grab onto that because you don't know what's in that room.
You just know this a little bit that you see.
I like that.
I like that Dennis MacDonald, I did a recording with him.
There was a four panel responding to something, his mimetic work.
We had Stephen Boyce.
We had Eric Manning from the Christian Apologist channel.
Yeah.
Then we had Tim McGrew and then we had, I can't remember the fourth person.
Oh, that that.
Yeah.
And so Dennis responded and he saw the whole stream that they did.
We did a response video later on, but this was while I was in California
recorded and he says, Derek, I'm going to say this very kindly.
Dennis is one of the most soft, humbling guys.
If you talked to him, he wouldn't hurt a fly.
In fact, I hope he sticks around for another 20 years because it's sad.
This guy's that he's been, he's been even in academia, not treated the way he could be,
believe it or not.
But the problem is what he knows is a skill.
There was a time in the 70s and 60s that they were actually training
a mixture of New Testament and classicist to learn the Greek and go back
into Homer and actually learn this material.
New Testament scholars are told or trained to read this stuff.
This is something that he has a specialty on.
And it's a very, very niche specialty, which puts him already on the outside
of most New Testament scholars.
But he said, I'm going to say this about them.
And I don't mean this disrespectful, but they are intellectual, anti-intellectuous.
Yeah.
Yes.
In a hit, I was like, because they're smart.
But they are working against the data, the evidence, the trying to do something
rather than work with what scholarship is actually saying here.
You know, it did.
And I am benefiting from that.
But a lot of people don't have that luxury, right?
They have to go out into the workforce, have families that take care of.
And they get to a place where it's like, I'm not going to be able to have the
money, have the time to go to a master's degree and then go get a PhD.
Like I'm just not going to have time to do it.
But I want to know, right?
I want to be somebody that is an authority on this.
So what do I do?
Well, like, I think people just say, well, if I just, if I just read it, you know,
the right people or if I just, you know, get under the right scholar on YouTube
or something and I read what they tell me, like, then I can, I can battle
with the best of them.
And it can, it's a, it can seem that you really have a command of the data.
It can feel like you have a command in data and you just, you just don't.
You've only moved a couple of feet down that hallway.
You just don't know it.
And so then it builds this, this confidence that then you hear people say
when they get in frustrating circumstances, oh, so called Dr.
Bowen, so called Dr.
Davis, right?
And, uh, and that's what that, that's sort of, more recently, our user has been,
uh, has been accusing me now of what is it?
It's, uh, it's my, it's my, my white Western elitist.
Historicist bias.
I don't even know what to do with that.
Like, and what context?
As, as, as a means of, of, uh, basically of, of saying this is what historical
criticism is, is it's, it's, it's an attempt to, it's taking a modern method
and, and have fistingly, you know, applying it to these ancient texts as a
means to, to try and understand them, but can't possibly, because it's not getting
inside the, I think inside the middle of you or inside them, but it is.
It's a, it's a form of this, this kind of, uh, intellectual, anti-intellectualism
where you, you apply a label to someone, you know, liberal, strong.
Poisoning the world.
Or yeah, it's a, it's a way of, uh, of, I think dismissing, uh, the stuff that,
that you, you either, that either frowns you or you don't understand, you know,
or, or both, right?
Um, you know, because it's, it's, you know, I just, when I, when I read stuff
like that, I just shake my hand and I'm just like, you just, you just have no,
you just have no idea how hard scholars work to, to try and understand the literature on its own
level.
Yeah.
Right.
Um, which, which is what we're doing.
Like that's the, you know, maybe that's, that's another way to understand the
difference between, uh, between critical scholars and apologists.
You know, apologists are trying to make sense of the literature, the, the, the, the
Bible within, within this context that, that works for them in the here and now, right?
Scholars are trying to make sense of the biblical texts in their world.
And you have to, of course, this means you have to, you, you have to employ
techniques that have, techniques and methods that have been developed over,
you know, hundreds of years, uh, in order to, in order to access this stuff,
uh, and, and understand it as, as best as we can.
But at the heart of it, that's the goal is to try and get to the point of the
literature in its own time, in its own place, and to make this accessible and
understandable to people in the modern world.
And, uh, you know, I think that that's one of the, one of the things that, um, I think
surprised me the most when I, when I, the, the deeper I got into, uh, my own critical
studies of the Bible was just how weird and strange the text actually is in this world
really is. Because I never, because from, in my own upbringing, in my own, uh, modern
Christian context, I was always told that this is, this is something that was written for me now.
So it's gotta be understandable in the here and now, right?
Uh, and, and the thing that, that just blows my mind more and more as I dig into this literature
is just how far away we are for here and now, from what these texts are and where they came
from and what they were, you know, for whom they were written and, and the purposes for
for, for whom they were written. It's, it's just, it's, it's, yeah, it's one of those mind blowing
things. I mean, comments like this, and I noticed because my computer, if you're like a little
corner notification, I just glanced over for a second. You will hate it when God has the last
laugh. He purposely put just enough there to make you go the way you want. The game has rules
called faith. This is the other thing that I find, um, and this could go a completely different
direction, but maybe not. Um, I think there's this security in apologists, certain apologists,
when it comes to this apocalyptic idea, because like I wrote that chapter in that,
um, in that religious volume on violence and genocide and like evangelical morals
and then how they wrestle with morality in the Old Testament. And one of the things that I talked
about is, and I see this online and you just gave an example of it, so many apologists
are not only looking to deal with these passages about violence and genocide in a way that allows
them to sleep at night. Instead, much worse, they're taking pleasure in these passages.
Like, uh, I know you guys have seen this video, I'm sure, but you know, Stuyler, Fiction and I
did an interview with a young man and Stuyler said, you know, something to him like, so if God,
you know, if God commanded you to do away with a small person, would you do it? No,
he said, would it be moral? And the guy said, yeah, I would do it. If God commanded me to do it,
yeah. And he said, you, you would offer a small person if God commanded you and the guy said,
yeah, oh yeah. And of course, I put the cool aid, you know, yeah, oh yeah, you know,
but I mean, think about that. It's, it's this, it's this apocalyptic mindset because look,
we're the persecuted group. We're the ones that are suffering. We're the ones that are having to
take it on the chin right now, but, but just you wait, just you wait. Like God comes back. Yeah.
I mean, I'm thinking of someone that we won't mention their name very specifically now, you know,
like a staircase up to that with Abraham offered the staircase. You know, like this person
is looking forward to putting his foot on our necks. Yeah. If you go, if you want to get a chuckle,
but also see how deep this goes, love letters from Christians to Richard Dawkins. If you have not
watched that, we'll have to watch it after we're done recording here. So you could see it's very
short, but it is the funniest and saddest thing at the same time. You're laughing because you're
going, how ridiculous you, you'll see why, but there are moments where you're going, these are
real people who really wrote Richard Dawkins this and they're Christians. And yeah, it's like, well,
God's hate works for my hate here on this. And if it, even if it's not a political thing, and
oftentimes it is something social, ethical or political or something like that, sometimes it's
just heaven and hell. Like right here, they're not happy with the fact that James Tabor literally
says that the New Testament gospel is contradicting this problem. Somebody's not telling the truth.
There's somebody's being inaccurate and that person got so mad. You will hate, you all hate
when God has the last laugh. It's like, what? What is going on here? Great God, you know?
And that's the thing, Mike, when people bring up like passages like Psalm 137 and the lament and,
you know, happy or happy as you bash your heads against the rocks, like, and the apologetic,
standard apologetic, it's like, look, this is a lament. This isn't God's tremendous command.
But why this is a, like, why this is, like, throughout the Psalms, like this is, this is
the intent of God is to bring about these violent acts, right? This is not an anomaly. It's just a
very straightforward way of picturing it. But certainly that's not an idea that he always
standing back going, what? No, my gosh, I didn't know he was so violent. But the thing is, I think
that that mindset, again, particularly in the apocalyptic genres, you can't help but read
through revelation as a Christian and feel like, yeah, one of these days, one of these days, Alice,
you know, and that was a really bad example, I'm sorry. But, you know, like,
I said at the end of that article, even though apologists will say, look, vengeance is mine,
say the Lord, I will repay, right? There are two things that always stand out to me. One,
when you know that it's coming, it can be very difficult, it was for me, for a Christian to
think of ways to help the process along, right? And secondly, if you know that your Lord hates
a certain group of people and will destroy them, if you were to come back right now,
it's pretty easy to hate that group as well, even if it's in your heart.
You want to destroy them too. I mean, look at, yeah, the terrifying thing in this is so much of
this literature, what apocalyptic literature is, is its literature of persecution. It's written
under conditions of duress and trauma. The terrifying thing about this is that this has
become reified literature. And now it's this literature that was written under duress and
trauma, but now in the hands of the powerful. Yes, exactly. That's the scary part. That's the
terrifying piece in all of this. It's interesting. You say that this, why I love scholarship, this,
why like secular academia, even my investigation into Islam and understating the cultural milieu,
the history, what's going on in Arabia, the whole nine. There's a scholar named Stephen.
No, Stephen, and I can't remember his last name, but anyway, he's written on this whole
apocalypticism in the time of Muhammad and how empires were the new apocalypticism by then,
according to what he's arguing, is pretty much a race for whichever empire's winning is the one
God's going to favor and give like at the end. So now it's not a, I'm the weakest and God's going
to vindicate us. It's a race for human involvement to become the most supreme empire so that God
then favors you when you win. And so that's why the conquest makes a lot of sense and earlier
Islam conquest and why these nations are battling it out over and over from the Persians over here
with the soya's and then also dealing with Constantinople, the remaining part of Rome
that is even there and the Roman Catholic or the Catholic church period because there's various
sects arguing. But like it's interesting what you just said because today you could take that to
like Bush and the things he was saying when they went, we went to the Middle East with tanks the
whole nine, like he's thinking we're the sword of God. Yeah. Now that was a very interesting
back in, I think it was 2000, it was probably 2005, 2006. Maybe a little bit before that.
The Society of Biblical Literature used to publish an online forum and in one of them
they featured, I think it was four or five papers by scholars where they specifically
pulled apart Bush's speeches and analyzed them on the basis of
the apocalyptic language that he was employing. And just pointing it directly, pulling the stuff
straight out of the Bible and looking at it in the context in which Bush was speaking,
what? This is an admission statement. This is about being exactly that,
the sword of God in this battle against the forces of darkness. When I think about what you said
about apocalyptic literature, starting off with, did be oppressed, and it being this
hang on just a little bit longer, you can make it survive, don't give in, and then it going into the
hands of the powerful. I mean, it really is akin to if like a little kid is getting bullied by a
13-year-old out on the docks and all of a sudden that 13-year-old boy finds himself in his
admiral father's battleship, and they're looking down from the battleship on this 13-year-old bully
and they're going to blow him up. It's different now. You're not the 13-year-old. You're the
13-year-old with the battleship owning father. This is different. And the thing is, it's that
13-year-old boy thinking or that younger boy being picked on thinking that he's still in that position.
He actually believes he's being persecuted and wants to enact all the power that he can get
behind him. And the reality is, he's the one in charge. And I'm sure there's several more things
that, you know, when we do stop this recording that come to mind that we have run into examples,
ideas that just Christian apologetics, and we are emphasizing Christian, but that's because we all
three were. Okay, this does not limit itself. Okay, just so everybody knows, this can go for
Jewish apologists. This can go for Muslim apologists. This can go for any and all apologists, really
technically, that are out there trying to defend their conclusions that they're starting with.
And Richard C. Miller, when I interviewed him not too long ago in California, he said something
interesting that goes along with this intellectual stuff. You're talking about with education.
And he's like, Derek, there's, it's not honest in terms of like getting to the grip thing we're
talking about in the previous video. It's not honest conclusions. He said, because where they're
making their converts are, you know, at Christian camp, summer camp, they're making them in the
local church. You're not, there is not this mass conversion as Gary Habermas was confronted by
Pine Creek the one time, you know, I haven't watched him in a long time. But on that episode,
he's like, Gary, can you give me this list of academics who were skeptical atheists who
approached this material and then were convinced? Oh my God, the evidence is just so obvious.
Going for the list. Yeah, like, why is that? And, you know, it wasn't, it's not that it's
something else. Well, I think it's worth pointing out that I mean, I'm 50 years old. So I remember
a time before you could, you could just go and buy whatever book you wanted on Amazon. The place
where Christian apologetic books were sold was in Christian bookstores. The people who were buying
them, the people who bought William Lane Craig and Restrobel and Robbie Zacharias and some of
them and Josh McDowell, these old school guys, they're Christians. When they would go on speaking
tours, they spoke in churches. Josh McDowell came to Vancouver once when I was, when I was
still in Bible college, and I went to go see him and he was in a church.
Wasn't that a university? These guys aren't, I mean, they are, it's much easier for these guys
now, I think, because of the internet and because of the global reach that is provided.
But in the old days, it was all, it was a ghetto. It all stayed in house. You sold your books in the
Christian bookstores to Christians, and you went on your speaking tours of the churches to talk
to Christians. Well, I hope you enjoyed that video. There's so much more we could get into.
And thank you.
