Today I ask Paula Fredrickson, how much did Hellenism impact the Greco-Roman world?
To a point where those who lived within the Greco-Roman world, Jews and Christians,
how much were they impacted by the thoughts of the pagans around them? We have this idea of
categories that we've created to try and understand Jewish thinking, Christian thinking,
and other thinking. How erroneous are those categories when we're trying to imagine what a
Jew, what a Christian, what a pagan would have believed or thought or even practiced in the
first century? Thank you to everybody who's helped us here on making this trip possible,
and thank you for joining the Patreon. You're gaining access to this before everyone else,
but also you're keeping MythVision alive. Paula, thank you again. I can't tell you how much
I am honored to interview you today. Your work, you've approached your understanding of various
forms of Judaism and emerging Christianity in their broader context of ancient Mediterranean
culture and ethno-religious history. To what degree does this broader Hellenized world contrast
with more traditional and insulated world of Jews or Christians? Traditional scholarship
used to look to rabbinic Judaism as a baseline for what all Jews did all the time,
and imagined that Jews were in some kind of bell jar, even if they were in the Diaspora,
or if they were in the Diaspora, not in a bell jar, they were naughty Jews.
In fact, the whole neighborhood got Hellenized after Alexander the Great in minus
333. Greek has become the English of antiquity. Greek gods are everywhere.
Jews are ancient monotheists in the way that they think their god is the highest god,
that still leaves plenty of room for other gods. Philo of Alexandria, who is an observant
Jew in his fashion, writes a commentary on Genesis and talks about God creating the gods
which he associates with the stars and planets. He calls stars and planets gods,
which just makes good Mediterranean sense. We still call them Jupiter and Saturn and Venus and
Mercury, right? So that comes from somewhere. So Jews were actually very much at home in
Greco-Roman antiquity. And you have synagogue inscriptions that manumit slaves that begin,
we can't tell if it's a pagan god for you, or just a regular Jewish member of the community who's
manumitting a slave in the synagogue, which is where you do this sort of thing, calling on the
god of Israel, the highest and most blessed god, giving the name of the slave, putting her under
the supervision of the synagogue, and calling as witness Zeus Gaia and Helios, the sky, the earth,
and the sun. Those are gods. Big deal. We have mosaic zodiacs on synagogue floors.
That's the wheel of heaven. Those are divinities. The word God itself is stretchable, right? Moses
is called God in Exodus. We have origin and his commentary on Romans says that David and Paul
were not men but gods. He calls them gods. And of course, the Roman emperor is a god. So God is
something, is one of these stretchable, stretchable terms that is not, we think of God as in a
completely different category from humans, but in fact, it's more like on a gradient.
So divinity is something that, the multiplicity of divinity is something that ancient Jews and
Paul in particular are perfectly aware of. Paul wouldn't be talking about the god of this world,
or he wouldn't be talking about heavenly knees and earthly knees and subterranean knees and
Philippians too, if you weren't also accommodating this idea of multiple divinities as part of the
world. It reminds me when Jesus says it is written ye are gods. Now, whether he actually said this
or not, it's a big question. Well, he didn't say it in Greek. I'll tell you that. What do you think
is implied here? Do you think this plays into that idea when he says it is written you are gods? I
know it judges is what people try to say. I don't know what that would mean in that
phrase, but it certainly means that you're elevated and beyond the normal scope of the human.
And if you become, again, as Paul says, if you get a star body, a pneumatic body when Christ comes
back, stars are gods. I love this. As I read Yesus Deus by Mdavit Litva. Yes. Fabulous book.
Wonderful book. Yeah. I mean, he kind of specifies this issue where we want
everything to be from Mother Judaism, but at the same time. As if Mother Judaism wasn't
dating a lot of other pagan guys, right? Right. And that's an interesting thing. So it's not like,
you know, Judaism, or that's anachronistic to even use the term, but Jewish religion and the
culture, the cultural traditions that go back to what we call Jews. There seems to have already
been blends. In fact, I was wondering about the assumption of Moses and Josephus. And I was like,
when I read my Bible, like, I always read this and was like, all right, he died. And then like,
God just made sure he was buried and was like, like, this is buried in himself. Right. Right.
Like, did Moses is dead? Like, I'm a Christian reading my Bible. I was in high school. I remember
I was like, Moses died. Then I heard someone went, Moses never died. In fact, that's why he shows up
on the Mount of Transfiguration with Enoch or with Elijah and Jesus. And I was like,
what do you tell him about the Bible says he died? Like, no, Josephus says he was taken. And I'm like,
okay, what's going on? I mean, look at Enoch, right? Lots of people get taken and lots of people
end up in heaven, which makes them a very good source for revelations, which is why their names
show up on these on these on these documents. But there is no essence of any of these religions.
There is no essence of Judaism, which then somehow forms a hybrid with something else.
People live in the cultures they live in. And it's just as you were saying, it's just part of what's
in the atmosphere. And a Jew in Rome probably does something different from a Jew in Corinth,
who does something different from a Jew in Persia, right? I mean, but they're dealing with
Jewishness is a kind of high tech religion and antiquity because it has a book.
And the book is either available in Semitic languages or in Greek. But that makes
ideas of Jewishness transportable. But they are interpreted only in a local context.
So there, there is no essence of Judaism, just like there is no essence of paganism,
just like there is no essence of Christianity. There are all sorts of different Christians,
Christianesses as well. I love the way you put that, because it made me think like,
we want to draw these fine lines between, oh, here are the Jews. Now don't get me wrong,
you could you could recognize certain groups, social groups. But when you look at Joe Pagan,
who comes in and he goes to Zeus on, on, you know, whatever day of the week, he decides to go pay
homage to Zeus and Athena or whoever might be and then goes over to the synagogue. And it's like,
Oh, the God of Israel, origin has a line in the country, Kelsen that
the God of the Hebrews is invoked, not only by Jews, but by almost anybody who deals in magic.
Just normal, we have magical recipes in papyri, where so many different gods are summoned,
including Yau, that you can't tell if it's a Jewish pagan or a Christian
document, which says to me that it's our analytical categories that are being imported,
because we're trying to make an identification. But in terms of the experience of the, not only the
client who's going to the magician, but to the magician adept who's trying to get these
gods to cooperate so he can get done what he needs to get done. Did he think of himself as a Jew
or a Christian or a pagan? Why can't the answer just be yes? I love that answer, by the way.
It leads into something else that isn't quite into you. It overlaps with what you're saying here.
I interviewed Daniel McClellan, who's actually a PhD, wrote a book called Yahuah's Divine Images,
and he goes back and showing using a lot of science, going and explaining like
some of the science of why people will leave and all of that, building up to his point.
But in it, he points out how a lot of scholars are pointing out the categories we call religion
are just not good. They don't fit. They don't fit. And just like you're describing like the social
aspect, even when you go into the religious practices, we call them religious practices,
but the practices of them, he compared in this interview the tombs and tombstones of loved ones
to temples that are actual temples. And we rabbit trial this really interesting episode
together. And at the end, I said, I don't know why I'm thinking this. I'm just it's heresy for me
to say it, but I'm going to say it anyway. What if Yahweh was an ancient warrior or king of some
tribe somewhere? He is the Lord is a man of war. I mean, he is a warrior. I'm just thinking in terms
of like, you know, what if this, because a lot of men have been deified, right? Kind of like pharaohs
that's actually an ancient theory of religion, Varo, who's a who's a Roman antiquarian says
that a lot of the lower gods are deified heroes. And he laments that his culture ended up making
images of the of the gods because he thinks sets at a lower intellectual level than just using
this, which is a good philosophical idea. Wow. So people have thought that thought.
I don't know why rabbitrode to that. It just made sense of the categories we've created and we
heard ourselves before even step into the arena to understand because we already have a category
we've created. Well, by using Jew, Christian and pagan, which I do routinely, so I'm able to say
what I want to say. I'm already distorting the historical material because what I'm doing is
privileging religious identity as a marker of the foregrounded marker of identity for
identity seems to be situationally activated in antiquity. The emperor Disha says that every
Roman citizen has to do a supplication to the gods for the well-being of the empire in 250.
And what happens is that so many Christians do the sacrifice, that there's a tremendous problem
of disciplining the lapsed after it's over, which means that they weren't looking at pagan
sacrifices, something that was out of line and 250. So it's really impressive to learn this.
Where do you see, in light of this question, where do you see scholarship heading?
We're going to get better at this, I suspect. I don't know because scholarship is like anything
else. It's fractured. There are people who belong to this wing of scholarship and there are people
who think they're doing history and they're really doing theology and historical camouflage and
then there are people who are more at home in pagan documentation and then fitting
Christian or Jewish materials into that. The study of Rubinex is its own subcontinent,
so it's not like if you said scholarship is going, I mean it's hurting cats.
Yeah. Wow. Thank you. Okay. Thank you to those who contributed in the GoFundMe on making this
trip possible for these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson. I want to give a special shout out
to you. Your names are chiseled in history. I also want to thank everybody who has become
a patron of MythVision making stuff like this possible, taking academic work that is hiding
behind all of these scholarships, all of these colleges and making it public, public knowledge
for everybody to learn.
