What if everything you thought you knew about the Gospels is wrong?
What if scholarship has been mistaken about the communities and their romanticism on the
Gospels?
Today, Dr. Robin Walsh explains that the Gospels are not written by some spokesperson whose
finally literate speaking to illiterate people, but were elites competing in a literary fashion
amongst each other because this was what Romans did in this time.
The Gospels are written in a highly sophisticated way.
And how does this factor into Paul?
Well, our aftermath with the Q&A is a nuclear bomb.
You don't want to miss this episode.
I highly recommend this.
I'm not kidding.
Stay tuned.
You'll learn something you've never learned in this episode.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Eric Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, the guests that I'm having on today, Dr. Robin Faith Walsh.
I know.
Ironic.
It is.
Especially with what I discuss all the time.
Are you still an associate professor at the University of Miami?
Yes.
I am.
I just became associate.
Yeah.
I was assistant until six months ago, but now I'm an associate.
Excellent.
Well, she earned her PhD at Brown University in religions of the ancient Mediterranean
with a focus on early Christianity, ancient Judaism, and Roman archaeology.
Before coming to the University of Miami, Professor Walsh taught at Wheaton College
in Massachusetts.
I believe it is, isn't it?
Yeah.
There are two.
I thought I was at the one in math.
The College of the Holy Cross and received teaching certificates and pedagology.
I can't even pronounce the term.
No, I can't.
Pedagogical, if I'm not mistaken, training at Brown University and Harvard University.
She teaches courses on the New Testament, Greco-Roman literature, and material culture.
I wish I could join some of the classes that she has on her website, robinfaithwalsh.com,
and that's Robin with a Y, so you can go check out the website.
It's down in the description.
Her first monograph, the origins of early Christian literature contextualizing the New
Testament within Greco-Roman literary culture.
The book is absolutely phenomenal, and I figure today we'll have the opportunity to listen
to her, do a shorter presentation, get right into some of this interesting stuff.
You might be wrong about everything you think when it comes to New Testament studies, and
that's what this book really did.
So Dr. Walsh, welcome to MythVision, and thank you for giving me your time.
Thank you for having me.
I'm really excited to be here and to share some of my research and what I was trying
to get at in this book, and I hope people find it interesting, and thank you for the
support, too, for my research and for this topic.
Yeah, I'm thrilled.
So I would be happy to hear what you have to say, and then we'll do Q&A.
All right, sounds great.
So we're going to share a screen, all right, and you can see.
I can.
Excellent.
All right.
So I can't see you, but try to give me some kind of verbal cue if something starts to
go awry, or if you have any questions, just jump in.
That's completely fine with me.
Excellent.
So the book, The Origins of Early Christian Literature.
One thing I like to do, because there's one thing to just kind of present your research,
but it's another to actually talk to the person who wrote the thing and to get a little bit
of the backstory.
This was this image you see here.
It's a bust, sometimes it's called a herm, of Fusitides, and now I'm blanking on the
other.
I think it's Herodotus, Herodotus and Fusitides, back to back, as you can see, and this was
originally the image I wanted for the book.
I couldn't get the rights to it, and the reason I wanted it, though, was, yeah, I'm
unfortunately, but it's because I wanted to give a visual symbol of what I'm trying
to say in the book, which is that there is a certain synergy among people who were literate
enough and elite enough, culturally elite enough in the ancient world to write anything,
really, that was sort of narrative prose in any kind of complicated way.
And so I thought, because these two were historians, or what we might call historians more or less,
that showing them back to back, imagine together in some kind of network, some kind of literary
network, was a nice visual for what I was trying to convey about the gospel writers.
But again, couldn't get the rights.
So ended up with this cover instead, which I actually have come to prefer, because I think
that there's a lot of symbolism in this image that wasn't coming across in the other one.
But here you have three of the gospel authors, the Synoptic Gospels, so Mark, Matthew and Luke.
And I like how they're kind of high fiving each other and also in an era of social distancing.
You know, they've got that going on too.
So I ended up really liking this cover for that reason.
But I also wanted to bring up that the title, the origins of early Christian literature,
wasn't actually the original title I wanted.
And I had wanted the title and the manuscript I submitted to the press said the beginnings
of early Christian literature.
And so that's a theme we might come back to in the Q&A and a theme for this whole talk,
which is this obsession with origins that happens in the field of New Testament and early
Christian studies with some regularity.
You see it in scholarship, you see it in the kinds of discourses we have, the conversations
among scholars and even the kind of conversations that scholars have with the public.
It always seems to be about what are the origins as if there is an origin point for
early Christianity or that we can get at what we call these early Christians or those
earliest stage of the Jesus movement.
To some extent, there are ways that we can access some of that information, but it seems
almost like an obsession with the field to always come after this idea of origins.
And what the consequence is of this kind of endeavor is that the only thing we really
have from the first century, as far as we know, are texts like the letters of Paul or
the synoptic gospels.
And so we put a lot of weight on those sources to tell us a lot about, again, origins
because we're interested in it, but it might be more weight than those kinds of texts can
bear.
And that was one of the premises that I brought to this whole project.
So thinking about who can write and also why are we obsessed with origins are really
kind of the two focal points that I can point out at this stage for framing what came after.
So today, I thought I would talk mostly about the first two chapters.
And I'll talk a little bit about some of the stuff that comes after.
But again, anything in Q&A we want to talk about is totally fine.
But the first two chapters will really give you a roadmap for what the book tries to
accomplish.
So as you can see here, the first chapter is called The Myth of Christian Origins.
So no surprise, the title based on what I just said.
And what the chapter does is really go through some of the assumptions that the field tends
to make about, again, what we can get at in terms of an origin for Christianity and
consequently, what that kind of methodology or that approach does in terms of producing
certain kinds of expectations or assumptions about the social formations that bring about
the kind of literature that we see and something like the gospels.
And also really tends to be a definitive set of markers for how we even imagine the
evolution of early Christianity to have taken place.
And so I wanted to scrutinize all that to trouble it to see if it bears, if it can bear up
against what we do as historians with any other kind of ancient literature from the first century.
It might be cool, even if I and I'm not saying I'm going to interrupt the presentation.
I just think do it all to jab things that I think are interesting.
You bring up in the book and it might like help you along the way with your limited
coffee inside.
So what I'll do is is just throw the ideas out there and see what you think.
One of the things you said in your book that I found fascinating in what you're saying
here is we put too much weight sometimes on these ideas of social like this
gospels to this community and this particular community.
Here's this leader of this community, probably, or someone who's a literate person in it to
read this among these potentially illiterate person.
Right.
It's just there's there's a lot there that you're pointing out.
Like maybe we start off wrong on this approach.
Yeah, I'm going to I'm going to talk a little bit about there.
Actually, let me jump ahead.
Yeah, so I've written on this because I've described what were this idea of this sort
of spontaneous social formation that Christianity fosters among these earliest
followers as a big bang.
Now, I'm not the first person to say big bang.
There have been other scholars that have referenced it, but I love that that imagery.
If you're thinking about origins to that, there is a focal point and then just an
explosion.
And if you read something like Acts of the Apostles, that's the narrative that you get.
You know, X number of people converted in one day by just listening to some of the
teachings of the disciples or the apostles, right?
That's supposed to be enough or sufficient to create some kind of spontaneous conversion
experience and conversion, in this case, being like a wholesale turning of your life.
So you imagine some of these people who are supposed to convert being quote unquote
pagans who hear this message and then just stop doing whatever they were doing in
their day-to-day lives, worshiping the gods, break all those familial bonds to just
become a Christian because it's just patently obvious that this is the thing
that they should be doing with their lives.
That's rhetorically the message you get in these narratives.
Practically speaking, that's almost never the case.
Conversion is a lot messier.
It's often not spontaneous.
It's often not that widespread.
And so back to this idea of certain work, there's work that these texts are doing and
presenting even the concept of conversion in that particular way, or the idea that
Christianity spreads so rapidly, so cohesively, and so multibly, the way that it
does from these, what's supposed to be like this origin point of historical Jesus.
And consequently, when we think about the Gospels, here's a little timeline that I
like to show in my classes to contextualize this.
What you have is Jesus dies sometime around 30.
You have this man, Saul, who converts, becomes Paul and starts talking to various
groups, and I'll talk a little bit more about those groups in a second, about his
experiences of the risen Christ.
Now, to be clear, Paul never knew Jesus.
He never met him.
What he's describing is that he has these visions of the risen Christ, who is giving
him certain information that he's then disseminating to the people that he's
writing to.
He has this, what we might call, ministry between about 50 and 60.
His letters, which often get lost, especially in English translation, are very
much in line with what we see from other Jewish writers of the first century who
have been trained and educated in what we might call Greek paideia, which is basically
just school, the kind of schooling that was sufficient to learn to read and write.
There are other scholars or ancient scholars like Philo and Josephus who have
had the same thing and they have in common with Paul that they often interpret scripture
in terms of the popular philosophy of the first century.
Sometimes it's called middle Platonism, but basically it's a mix of Platonism and
Stoicism.
So a lot of the stuff that we even read in the Gospels and Paul again get lost in
translation today, but when he uses words like spirit, the word Numa in Greek actually
means it's like a physical substance and it has physical properties in Stoicism.
And when you understand what he means by participation in Christ, in terms of that,
it makes a lot more sense than just the spirit.
But after 2000 years of using the word spirit, you know, it makes sense to
contemporary Christians without that background.
But that kind of thing is going on in these texts that is often lost.
Paul dies sometime around 6065, we're not sure.
And sometime after the Jewish war, after the temple falls, that's when you first
get the Gospels being written.
And to your point, often imagined to be representative of the oral traditions of
groups of Christians, the kinds that we imagine, the kind of groups that we imagine
maybe Paul was writing to, but they're imagined to be illiterate, imagined to be
kind of just like this rabble of people huddled together, who tried to find some
kind of literate spokesperson to represent that oral tradition for them.
And then consequently scholars will say, well, the spokesman must have written
down the oral traditions, those people selected stories that were important to
them, those groups, those churches.
And so maybe we can mine these texts to find out about the origins of Christianity
by looking for the unique elements of each text, because that must represent the
people who were asking for it to be written down.
So an interesting kind of structure.
I'm going to skip talking more about Paul for now.
But oral tradition, which is the theory I basically just explained, does a lot of
work for early Christianity to try to get us from that origin point to that point
after the war that I just described, when we know these texts were being written.
And there are reasons we can talk more.
I'm sure you've talked to other guests about why we know that, including
descriptions of the destruction of the temple that appear on like Mark 13.
So it just seems pretty clear that the temple is already gone for various reasons
by the time the Gospels are written, but to traverse that space and time.
I mean, the earliest evidence you have for Christianity for these origins
are the letters of a man who never met the historical Jesus.
Then you don't have any stories about the historical Jesus until Jesus dies
in 30 to 40 years later at a time when life expectancy is about 24 years old.
You know, that's a long space of time.
So how do you get from historical Jesus to the Gospels 40 years later?
One theory that scholars have put forward over the years is the idea of oral tradition.
So again, there are these stories that come either from disciples or the apostles,
the early, you know, figures, leading figures of this movement after Jesus's death.
They've passed on the teachings of Jesus.
Those were passed on orally among these people, these collective groups
who held on to it preciously over the generations.
And then finally, they found a literate spokesperson to write them down.
So that's basically the the formula in Jesus teaches.
He dies sometime later.
Somebody writes it down.
Now, I have a lot of problems with this theory and that comes across in the book
among them are quite a few things.
But one is that you have a problem.
If you take the Gospels as describing the historical Jesus as in any way,
historical or accurate, what you have is a man who is teaching an Aramaic
who is teaching very locally, all things considered,
to small groups, relatively, and a small group of followers
and followers who are themselves illiterate.
He chooses his followers among classes of people
who would not have had Pidea, Fisherman, etc.
So there is already there a big problem
because the earliest Gospels are written in Greek just for one example.
So you have a translation problem right away.
You have basically a game of telephone, too,
because you have whatever he said spoken to a small group of people.
Again, assuming that the Gospels are giving us an accurate picture
and then you're relying on multiple generations to tell that story accurately
because there's often debates, you know, is this word for word
which Jesus actually said that we find in the Gospels?
And obviously, it's not word for word since the Gospels weren't written in Aramaic.
So that question is already off the table
because by the time you have a written in Greek,
you already have one active translation, right?
So you have things lost in translation possibly.
So by the time these things are actually written,
that's a lot to traverse in terms of the reliability of what we might call,
again, origins of Christianity or the historical Jesus.
So back to this idea that it's a lot of weight for it to bear.
It's difficult to imagine that the literate spokesperson
in the oral tradition framework is a really reliable one historically,
just given everything else that we know contextually
about historical development of texts and writing practices and antiquity.
So to me, oral tradition doesn't make sense as a main driver
for the kind of stories that you have in the Gospels.
And by the way, the other problem you have is that often
things that appear in the Gospels are things that Paul said.
And again, Paul never met the guy.
So it may be that there are other source materials,
written source materials that are being used by whoever is writing the Gospels.
And that that is the primary and most formative
both material that these writers are using,
but also the most formative social group in terms of helping determine
what appears in the Gospels, meaning.
The other the literate community around someone with that kind of schooling
and the knowledge to write something down, again, in antiquity, in Greek,
in narrative form, not in verse, often things in oral tradition are in verse.
That's not what you have in the Gospels.
Someone to have that kind of competency.
The people who are probably determining the content of whatever they're writing
are their fellow writers in terms of just primacy.
Doesn't mean that these authors, you know, they've learned about Jesus somewhere.
Don't know some Jesus adherents might not themselves be part of what's called
the Colesia Church, but that may not be the thing that is most informative
for them when they're writing down the Gospels.
So the problem also with oral tradition,
tradition theory is that I always like to use this example, too.
In my classes, if Jesus dies around 30, Mark is our earliest gospel
written sometime around the Jewish war.
It would be like us, depending on which gospel you're thinking about,
writing about World War Two or the Beatles or Elvis or the Bee Gees for the first time.
And even that, I'm actually being kind of generous because the Joke,
I am a big Beatles fan.
So the joke I always give is, you know, like I can pretty much recite
any Beatles song, but it's in verse and it has meter.
You know, like in a way like Homer did not.
That's not what you have in the in the canonical Gospels.
Actually, I don't think in any gospel, you don't have Jesus speaking in verse
or something that might indicate some kind of oral tradition.
So with all of that in mind, I wanted to ask, and this goes into the second chapter.
Why then does it seem that the study of early Christian texts is so
idiosyncratic? Why this obsession with origins?
Why the obsession with the idea of the spokesman writing for the community?
Why the obsession with oral tradition?
And why have we?
I wasn't even just concerned about why are we stuck in a certain methodological pattern.
But it was more like, where did this come from?
Right. Where we're in the academic study of these texts.
Did this get authorized as an approach?
Because I can see it from the perspective of reading the Gospels
from a faith based perspective.
Of course, the earliest Christians weren't literate and needed a spokesperson
because the Christians and the Gospels aren't literate.
Well, you have to be taking the Gospels very literally in that case,
that they are giving a reliable history to then extrapolate from that.
That by the time it's 70, you know, like all of these Christians are still
themselves, you know, not literate or maybe only one of them, you know,
in a big community is. I mean, even that framework to me seemed bizarre
because it recognized how few people were literate to say that you needed
the spokesperson or maybe there's just one person in the community
who has the ability to write these things down.
That kind of gives it away that this was the purview of more of an elite class.
So it just kind of didn't make sense to me.
So I, you know, when you get into a field and you become an academic,
you have to do all kinds of research into the history of the field
to get all these general exams and tests on who wrote what.
And you have to get up on all the theory and methodology.
But at a certain point, you know, the generational thing,
depending on your interest, you might go really into a deep dive.
But generally speaking, you want to be like up to date on the newest
kind of theory and literature.
So you might only go back, like, say, 30 years, with the exception of,
like, a couple of texts that are really formative for the field.
I went back even further, I went back to the 18th and 19th century.
And the reason I did that is that the field of New Testament itself,
you know, at some point, I came actually from a classics background.
And even when I taught at Wheaton, I was the Greek professor,
I wasn't really teaching religion.
Unless you consider, you know, I mean, I consider the ancient Mediterranean,
I consider it all religion, you know, whether I'm teaching about the gods
or teaching about Jesus or Judaism.
But I was principally teaching, you know, classics.
And that was my background, even going into this field.
And there was a time, though, especially when the Academy first
started doing a critical reading of early Christian texts, that the field wasn't divided.
There weren't those disciplinary boundaries of classics and then religious
studies over here.
And when you go back to that period, and it's often, the period is called
the romantic period, or referred to as romanticism.
So this is a period, particularly for the field of religious studies in Germany,
that emerges in the 18th and 19th century.
And what you have there are a bunch of scholars trying to read ancient texts,
but doing so in all the ways that I just talked about, looking for origins,
trying to find oral traditions and the like among a variety of different texts,
often for nationalistic purposes, or often for political purposes in their era.
So especially in Germany in the 19th century.
And some of the tenets of romanticism really started to ring out to me as
indicators of, OK, this may be why this methodology both seemed sensible
in the romantic period and why it persists.
So romanticism was characterized, and this is very broad, but characterized by a
few concepts that scholars reading, especially ancient texts, were looking for origins.
Particularly among German romantics, there was an anxiety that, well, we have
all these ancient Greek and Latin texts, but what was the original, like,
Indo-Germanic language of the German people?
Like, where's our identity as a people, especially politically at that time?
In Germany, it wasn't really a unified country.
The way it is today was a bunch of little statelets that eventually unified.
And when that unification happened, they started wanting to look for evidence
of their national heritage.
And there was a lot of, again, anxiety that you had that evidence in a place
like, you know, Italy or Greece, but not in the same way in Germany.
So a lot of concern with what are the national origins and stories of the
German people.
That was a very, very common question being brought to ancient texts.
And again, by people who, there weren't disciplinary boundaries.
You could work on the New Testament and work on an ancient German text and then,
you know, work on Homer.
And that was perfectly fine.
And you would bring the same methodologies to each.
There is also a concern in romanticism with the folk, the people, and wanting to
get at the stories and the language and the oral traditions of the people,
especially if you're looking for evidence of the origins of a people.
In this case, the Germanic people who didn't really leave behind the kind of
texts that Homer did or Virgil did, right?
So you're looking for some evidence of the oral traditions of the people.
And there was increasingly a sense in this period that the stories of the
common man were more important than the stories of, although the stories of the
great writers and poets, they often use the term the poet or the author.
Geniuses were also important.
There was also a deep concern with what are the stories of the people that they
shared, because there was also a feeling that knowing what day to day people were
telling each other in terms of oral stories might reveal more about national
character than just looking at the things that like the great writers of a period
were producing.
The best example I can give of this, sort of ironically, is Shakespeare.
And you would think that the, why are the Germans looking at Shakespeare if
they're looking for their national heritage?
Why are they going to England?
But the thing that Shakespeare did was he was supposed to capture the stories
of the low-lived Elizabethan.
You know, he was capturing the story of the common English person.
And so as a model for what they're looking for, he was a poet and an author,
genius, but he also captured what they often use the term spirit, the geist in
German, the spirit, the national spirit of the common people.
And so that was one big methodology that you saw across the board.
And then the other was a concern for community.
And that should be clear from everything I've said in terms of searching for
nationalist roots for particular movements and peoples.
So when those are your concerns within a political, academic, structural framework,
and this also happens to be the cradle of the emergence of both the critical
study of ancient texts, critical study of the Bible and the field we now call
religious studies, you can see the overlap between traditional methods in
New Testament and what was going on in Romanticism.
So essentially, I started to propose that while other fields like classics more or
less abandoned these kinds of methodologies and terminology, you know,
recognizing that origins is problematic, the word community is so politically
loaded, especially in France as well in the Romantic era.
You know, these kinds of words tend to be scrutinized and understood to have
their own context in English that's problematic, that we have a certain
inheritance from it.
It seemed as though or like the concern with the oral tradition and not
really critically engaging how oral tradition may be problematic.
All of that seemed to be things that other fields had already contended with.
But I wasn't seeing much evidence of that being addressed head on a New
Testament. And another example, just briefly, to really sort of contextualize
other than Shakespeare, the kind of project that you often saw within
German and Romantic circles, the brothers Grimm comes to mind.
And this is, you know, two guys that everybody has probably heard of.
I think there was some Matt Damon movie, right?
Some point. So everybody's probably heard of the Grimm brothers and, you know,
they collected these Germanic fairy tales, except their methods were really messed up.
They weren't really collecting the oral traditions of a people.
They were kind of filling in the blanks and talking to like one or two people.
And they didn't really have the credentials, honestly.
They had some schooling and they had a lot of interest and they had some money.
And they wrote really mean letters when you disagreed with them.
And that combination sort of raised them within popularity during the 19th,
you know, that German Romantic period.
But, you know, as as academics, but that whole they sort of they're
emblematic of that entire interest.
There are other scholars as a scholar whose last name is Kuhn.
He was doing the same thing, but, you know, had the credentials was doing it
legitimately and interviewing common people to try to find out their oral
stories. And he ended up writing a book that almost nobody read that they
really wholly dismissed.
He's a German scholar that said, you know what?
When I ask people to tell me their myths, they just make them up on the spot.
You know, these myths, they evolve.
He called it mythopoetics, basically, that they can be spontaneous and they
might not be reliable.
And everyone was like, no, no, no, no, right?
The Grimm Brothers method was better.
It gave you those oral stories.
And so then suddenly, you know, the terrain of Germany, you could start to
look, you know, to the material landscape for evidence of, you know,
like our Germanic fairies, right?
You could start to come up with a richer background for the Germanic people
through something like the Grimm Brothers than you could by recognizing
that myths tend to be spontaneously, you know, somewhat informed, but not word
for word and spontaneously communicated when they're passed down.
So I like to give them as an example of the kind of methodologies.
And the other thing just briefly going on in the romantic period that I think
is important is that most of Germany was Protestant and did not like the Pope
and did not like Catholicism and did not consequently like Rome very much.
So Rome rhetorically and Germanic circles was associated with excess,
with corruption, with, you know, basically heresy.
And on the other hand, too, was often described in terms of, you know,
the the pagans.
I mean, even that term, right, is so loaded.
And so you have this idea of the Roman pagan being this kind of godless heathen,
right? So you have nothing good about Rome and the imagination
of these nationalistic, you know, nationally and nationalistic
inflected kind of approaches to ancient literature.
So the idea that the gospel authors could possibly, if they were culturally elite,
maybe more wealthy because they had the time to and, you know,
currency to go to school.
Maybe they are part of, you know, a literary network that, you know,
the common man would have been or a common person would have been a part of
that they were probably urban because that's where the best schools were.
And that's how you could best circulate anything that you're writing,
that that would be your origin story for Christianity.
But it's a bunch of, you know, Paul was not a poor guy.
He might have in later life, you know, said he was a tent maker.
It's not quite clear.
Is he actually doing that work itself?
Is he making other people do it for him?
He was a Pharisee.
He was very well educated.
He came from he brags about his birthright, you know,
so even he has that kind of education where he knows philosophy,
he can, you know, put together the means for this letter writing.
And if the gospel authors are the same and these guys are all sort of like
upper tier Romans, that's not going to work
because the Romans in this period are no good, you know,
like they're they're these indulgent, godless heathens, right?
So all of that is conspiring, I think, in the 18th and 19th century
to make it seem impossible that there's an alternative
historical framework for these texts, that that must be oral tradition.
It must be these small communities of illiterate.
Often the word used in German was primitive Christian.
So that's what these scholars were looking for,
because that's what they were looking for in their own literature.
So going back to those roots really helped me
see how New Testament has continued to or the study
of the New Testament has continued to perpetuate these models
and perpetuate these methodologies.
By contrast, I will say this, we don't know a lot about early Christianity.
We don't know a lot about the origins of this movement.
We know mostly about Paul.
We don't even know who wrote these Gospels, these attributions,
these names are later just so people wouldn't like confuse their manuscripts.
So we don't even know who wrote the Gospels.
It's all shrouded in a lot of mystery.
So it's difficult for us to draw any firm conclusions
about the social lives of the people who produce this material.
Again, maybe apart from Paul, although even Paul,
the groups he's writing to doesn't seem like he talks about other
competitors, he uses words like super apostles.
The Corinthians don't seem bounded at all.
So the idea that even these groups he's writing to are cohesive
at the time he writes to them doesn't seem that way.
And so he seems kind of like an outsider often to those groups,
although we can talk more about that.
So we don't know a lot about Christian origins, actually.
What we do know about, though, as historians is how Roman education
worked in the imperial period, how writers made decisions,
how things like writing within genre expectation dictated a lot of content
that we find in other kinds of writing.
And then natural extension to that is why would the Gospels be any different
or what we call the Gospels be any different from any other kind of ancient writing.
So to produce something like this, and this is the Rylan's Papyrus,
sometimes called P 52.
It was we think dated to the early second century.
And it's a little scrap of the Gospel of John.
It was found in a trash heap somewhere to be able to even produce this required a lot.
I mean, there's the paideia I'm talking about, the time, the education,
the investment for the kind of education to write this down.
But also think about how expensive it is to even have a piece of papyrus
in the ancient world or this ink or someone, even if you are dictating
to write it down for you, all the social elements
that have to go into the production of something like this.
That is the purview of a cultural elite.
And I want to be careful here.
I say culturally, and I don't mean elite like rich people,
although I am sort of implying that, but you could have people.
I give the example in the book of Epictetus, he was a slave
who had been educated to educate the household that he had been sold into.
So here's somebody who, you know, didn't have rights themselves,
but had the education because of a different social context.
So that's why I like to use cultural elite,
but it took a certain cultural elite to be able to produce this material.
So you had to be culturally elite.
You had to be highly educated and you were almost you were always part
of some kind of literary network, both to
lightly publish things by reading them out loud and presenting them to people
and different social networks or exchanging them within certain groups.
You would kind of have like your favorite editor friends
that you might share something with and then publishing in the ancient world.
You would have to hand copy things.
It was a real labor really laborious process.
But to do that kind of active publication required another
a whole network of other literate elites.
And so what would it mean if the Gospels were part of these kinds of networks?
Now, the first example I can give you of evidence of that kind of network
working for other Christianity are the synoptics themselves.
Again, why I like to the cover of the book in the end that we picked
because what are the synoptic Gospels, but evidence of,
you know, Matthew reading Mark and saying I can do a better job.
And then Luke literally and the preface to his own gospel.
I think I have a slide of it here being like, I've read all these other Gospels.
All they stink. I'm going to do my I can do this better.
I mean, what you have are, you know, competition between writers
all saying that I can do it better.
And that that really represents what I think.
Oh, here it is.
What we have with other literature in the ancient world
and the ancient Mediterranean world and especially the first century.
So that to me makes a lot more historical sense
than a more convoluted story about spokespersons,
you know, like a literate poet who represents the folk stories of the masses.
Right. What you actually have in something like Luke's prophecies.
Somebody paid me to do this.
I've read a bunch of other writings.
I can do a better one.
So that that's essentially what he's he's saying in this preface.
And it's the kind of preface you also have from other historians
like Thucydides and Herodotus.
If I may, I'm at one point, though, just to point out the intro.
A lot of people make a lot of this whole just as they were handed on to us
by those from the beginning.
This is where they would argue the oral tradition or they're talking to eyewitnesses.
And you've mentioned this in a previous time.
I mean, you you go through a lot of content trying to present this.
So one of the things I thought was interesting, you said,
and maybe you might want to mention just so it's from your mouth and not mine,
is that other authors would say, oh, these are eyewitnesses, but they weren't.
Like this is that where you're going with this? Oh, yeah, sorry.
No, but you're going to be done.
This is no, but you're with me.
This is this is why I wanted Thucydides and Herodotus
because Herodotus would say I talked to eyewitnesses who told me
and then he would say something really bad, shit, crazy.
So classicists are like, yeah, he didn't talk to anybody who saw that.
You know, right, right.
But in New Testament, we're like, oh, yeah, talking bears.
You know, like or or whatever it is, right?
We were like, well, there was an eyewitness.
But this kind of preface is all over the ancient historians
and ancient biographers.
They always say something like this, I talked to an eyewitness
because you have to because otherwise, you know, what?
Why would I believe you?
What about going this out there?
What about Tacitus, where he says that he knew someone who saw
or he talked to an eyewitness, something like that, who saw
Vespasian hill, a blind man and a withered hand of a guy in the temple of Serapis.
He stepped on the man's hand and his withered hand was held or the blind man.
He spit literally in the man's eyes.
And I don't want to smile at this.
Yeah, yeah, I just realize I'm smiling while you're talking about, you know.
No, but it's it's just kind of like I know that it's funny, you know,
like this probably is not.
This is to the bolster your emperor, I suspect, or well, you know, yeah,
the funny thing or or take him down, you know, like when you have
this is the interesting thing about Jesus, too, that I hint at in this book.
And I think it's going to be the premise of another book, which is love
the empire or hate it.
Jesus is a perfect subject because here is a galleon peasant,
you know, a Jewish man right after the fall of the temple in, you know,
Jerusalem, where everyone in Rome.
I mean, what we call the Colosseum, the Flavian amphitheater was built
with the money from destroying that temple and robbing it.
The Arch of Titus, all the coins that were depicting, you know, Judea,
Capta, you know, the Jewish people as a woman, you know, naked woman
with her hands tied behind her back.
I mean, you couldn't negotiate physical space without that narrative being somewhere.
And so there's a lot of curiosity.
There was curiosity in the first century about Judaism, generally speaking.
We have lots of evidence of Jewish people.
I mean, whether or not it's absolutely true.
But we have, you know, Roman legal code saying that Jewish people
are getting kicked out of Rome because they're interpreting dreams for a fee.
So there's curiosity about ancient scripture.
You know, the Jewish scriptures were very ancient.
They seemed, you know, compelling to people outside of Jews,
so to Gentiles, people outside of Judaism, probably why anyone
listened to Paul in the first place.
And then you have, you know, this narrative that's implicitly about
empire, right, with Jesus, because he's the real leader.
And, you know, what happens to him, the treatment that he receives
basically at the hands of the empire, it does the same kind of work
that you're describing rhetorically.
It presents a commentary, whether overtly or covertly.
That's a political narrative.
And I think that kind of thing is happening with the Gospels as well.
And it's, again, after the war, an amazing subject matter
for a writer of the imperial period who wants to make that kind of comment.
Does that make sense?
Yes. OK.
So I think there's a lot of evidence with the synoptic Gospels in particular.
And we can talk a little bit about John, but he's not.
He's another writer who's engaging in this subject matter
and evidently has entirely different sources.
So back to the oral tradition theory kind of falling apart.
So rather than oral traditions of communities being passed on
and because it's replicated and three different instances
with the synoptic Gospels, it must be evidence of an origin point
from which this big bang happens and then disseminates itself
into three different communities that are all recorded, but slightly differently.
What you have more evidence for are elite educated people
who are just writing within literary networks, to my mind,
and that that is a much more linear
description, historical description of what you're even seeing
in something like Luke's preface, right?
Or the evidence of usually the words of action, you know,
how are the different gospel authors editing different stories
about the so-called historical Jesus?
I think they're just being normal for century authors
and writing a story about about Jesus
in the aftermath of the war and things, again, like eyewitness,
that kind of rhetorical devices all over the the preface
that you would find to Herodotus, the kind of preface
you would find at Thucydides and others.
So then the last piece, and I'll do this kind of quickly
because I want to make sure I give us plenty of time, is I say all of this in the book.
And then I thought to myself, well,
if I'm saying that these are normal Greco-Roman authors, the gospel authors,
there must be evidence somewhere outside of Christianity
for other writers to be reading them or engaging these texts
because I can't pause it that they're part of kind of this,
you know, cultural cultural and limited elite class of people who can read and write
and then say, but they're still kind of isolated on their own.
That doesn't really make sense.
And so I started to look around for evidence
that maybe there are some other Greco-Roman authors who are aware
of the Gospels or at least engaging in similar themes.
And one place where there are more examples that I've since found
that I'm trying to work on for the next book, but, you know,
want to kind of keep under wraps for now, just so I don't spoil the next book.
But in this one, I talked about a text called the Satiracon
and it's usually attributed to this guy named Petronius,
and he's supposed to live in the first century.
So some people think I'm not the first one to have noticed
that there are similar stories in the Satiracon and the Gospels.
But a lot of people will be like, oh, well, if Petronius was in, you know,
the Roman household of the emperor, maybe the emperor was curious about Mark.
You know, like there are all kinds of stories that try to go back to oral tradition.
I won't even bother with getting too deep into it.
But in classics and recent years, there's been a lot of convincing evidence
that the attribution of Petronius to this text is actually just erroneous
and that the text shows more evidence of being from the second century
and more or less anonymous, because we can't quite tell who who wrote it.
And some of the evidence for this includes references in the text to letters that Pliny.
Pliny wrote to there's a collection of the letters of Pliny,
who is a governor in Bethany, including letters to the Emperor Trajan,
saying that there are Christians in Bethany, by the way,
one of our earliest pieces of evidence that Christianity is existing as a cohesive unit.
So this is somebody who's writing possibly in Pliny's circle.
And some of the elements of his story in the Satiracon, assuming it's a hymn,
seem to mirror some knowledge of early Christianity and maybe these texts, these Gospel texts.
So a couple of the examples I give in and this is going to be too much text.
But I just want to put it up on the screen for people to give them the kind of a taste
of what I had in mind here.
There's one story where this guy named Tremolchio,
you know, let me jump ahead, has a basically a mock funerary meal for himself with his friends.
And he says that he wants them to imagine themselves invited to his funeral.
And then he talks about dividing his body among them for them to eat after his death.
And so the idea of anointing his body before death, having some kind of ritual death meal
ahead of basically like an execution and then dividing his body among his followers
afterwards, those themes definitely present in the Gospels.
So he says, all of those who are beneficiaries in my will and uses the word testament
can take what he has given his body under the following conditions that they invited
into parts and eat it in the presence of people.
Otherwise, they'll have cursed my spirit.
So, you know, sounds like a little New Testament to you to me.
Kind of a little gospely to me.
Another one is when Tremolchio is talking about this, this funerary meal that
he's posing to his friends, a cockroach and he gets really upset
because it seems to him to be kind of an omen of death.
And basically he, you know, because it's a comedy, he cooks it.
But the idea of the cock crowing, you know, before the predicted death also.
Pretty New Testament.
Another example is at the tomb and Mark,
I give the example here of the women who go to the tomb and they see that it's empty
and they flee in terror.
I didn't talk about this Turricon here, but just one other example
from the Greek novel by Keraton, this idea that he would go to an empty tomb
and then surmise that whoever was supposed to be in that tomb,
now that their bodily absence is a God, was all over ancient literature.
It was all over the novel.
It was all over mythology, about Romulus and Remus, about certain emperors,
about other human beings who become deities.
Basically, within Greco-Roman literature, when your tomb is empty
or your body disappears after death, it's an apotheosis and you become a God.
So the description that you get in the Gospel of Mark of the women
coming to the tomb, seeing it's empty, they panic.
You have and they're amazed, that idea of being kind of amazed
and stunned by the revelation that the bodily
corpse of the person has disappeared and therefore must be deified.
Very, very common in this literature.
So the book kind of goes on along those lines.
I have a previous publication with David Constan that also makes it into the book
that talks about how the Gospels do appear to be more in terms of genre
classification, like an ancient biography and a subversive biography.
So it's kind of an underdog figure.
And there are a lot of examples from the first century that this fits into that trajectory.
So that's basically what the book does.
It tries to escape here.
All right. Let me stop the share.
So. Can you see me? Yes. Yes.
OK, so does that get it across?
That was, yeah, there's a lot there.
There's a lot there.
And the whole.
So I guess we'll start with a couple things.
If you're if that's OK with you, it's not like all the other interviews
I've seen of you where this is like a professional at a college that's asking.
Now I'm leaning back.
Right. Right.
Let's let's.
So we get the gist of the Gospels.
Maybe I want to take us through your thinking of like,
how does this impact how we are now looking at the criteria?
Like we're not taking this oral, oral tradition approach.
We're seeing these are elitist writing.
They're very well educated.
They know what they're talking about.
But we're saying Paul is rooted in history.
Here's this guy.
He's highly educated, as you mentioned in this presentation.
What's Paul up to?
If you don't mind, tell us a little bit about Paul.
And then maybe I'll get us into a couple examples.
Maybe you can work through your thinking with me and we can kind of discuss
what you think is going on.
So Paul, you know, actually, when I went to grad school, it was for Paul.
It wasn't for the Gospels.
So I have this is a deep love for this guy or I love the subject.
So I think what's going on with Paul is he again, is a Pharisee.
He's highly educated.
I think and I don't want to make it sound like I'm putting on him
all kinds of like intentionality and like a backstory.
So just, you know, take it.
I'm doing a description here and we can kind of untangle it.
But in a period when again, like I was saying, we know that people
are interested in Judean stuff.
They want to know about ancient Jewish scripture because it is ancient.
There's something really interesting going on there.
You have writers like Philo of Alexandria using platonic thought
and popular philosophy of the day and stoic thought to say, hey, you know,
whatever you thought Plato said, Moses said that way earlier.
Like there's this kind of competition going on because of the antiquity
of those texts and people's people being, meaning Gentiles, non-Jews,
curiosity about it.
People like a Philo, who was actually part of the Roman imperial family
by marriage, or people like Paul, who are highly educated, are able to parlay
that knowledge they have, that deep knowledge they have of those texts.
Paul, by the way, is reading the Hebrew Bible in the Greek translation
called the Septuagint.
He shows evidence of that all the time and the way he cites the Jewish scriptures.
So he's reading even a Greek version of this material.
And so he is reading into it because he's so well educated.
All of the popular philosophy, just like Philo is, and that allows
him to communicate not only the antiquity and the importance of the Jewish scripture
itself, but then engage in popular philosophy, like the cutting edge science
of the day, right?
Stoicism has a lot of material elements where they're trying to explain
like how spirit, the word we use for spirit, is a material thing that can
go into your body and change the composition of your body.
And they're trying to do all kinds of these explanations that are scientific
for the period.
So Paul's combining the compellingness of these ancient
narratives with the popular philosophy.
And he's talking to these people and trying to engage them because otherwise,
if he didn't know these things and couldn't come up with these philosophical
proofs for what he was saying, why would you listen to him?
Why would you abandon like your entire life?
He's he's basically putting together a really comprehensive program
for explaining why what he's saying is legit.
And then plus he's got this whole end of the world thing that's kind of
creates a little immediacy.
But like as time goes on and the end of the world doesn't come, you know,
he has to also read.
You see like it in his letters as they go on, like by the time
he gets to Romans, he has a whole other theology about how like, well,
you're not right, you're not acting right.
That's why.
And here's like a moral way to act, an ethical way to act that conforms
with stoicism that if you act like this, then Jesus will return.
Right. And all that has imperial underpinnings of, you know,
like how unfair things are and we're going to be the true inheritors
of a kingdom, et cetera.
So he's tapped into the antiquity.
He's tapped into the sacred texts.
He's tapped into the political elements.
He's tapped into popular philosophy.
And he's well educated enough.
And again, that was a rare thing that he does kind of become almost
like a spokesperson, except not quite because the people he's writing to,
he may have that elite education, but he's giving the people he's talking
to, even if they didn't go to school, even if they can't read and write,
the opportunity to talk about these things and to engage in that kind of
paideia, even if they don't have the formal training.
I think that's why he's successful.
To the extent that he is, and I actually don't think he's that successful.
Like the Corinthians are not listening to this guy very well at all.
You know, some people say Philippians and Galatians, he's having a better time,
but he definitely tells someone, you know, to castrate themselves.
I think it's the Galatians, right?
Yeah, Galatians, fine, I believe.
Yeah, exactly.
He tells them he helps the nice slips as he tries to circumcise himself.
And that's because he has other people kind of competing for their attention.
Right. So he's not the only game in town.
And so I think the other reason Paul persists, though, is because I think when
the gospel writers go to write down stuff, what's floating around, you know,
like a limited number of texts out there, because a limited number of people can
write, what's out there are Paul's letters, right?
So there's a recent piece in a festrift, I think it's for Stan Stowers,
it's written by Emory Lyandike, who's at Princeton.
I think she's at Princeton now.
That might all be wrong.
I'll correct it if it's wrong, but it's definitely Emory Lyandike.
But she works on the Oxy Ringus papyri.
And there was a library of one individual who had thrown away a few letters of Paul.
He didn't have all of Romans, he had like three pages of Romans,
but he also had all kinds of other stuff in his library.
So the idea that you could be an elite Roman male, again, usually man,
with the means to have the kind of library where you can kind of, you know,
fool around all day reading and writing and maybe trying your hand at a few things.
Even someone like that had some of the letters of Paul because he's a great
middle plainist, you know, he's a really creative thinker.
He knows these ancient texts.
And so you want to try your hand at, you know, a story of this Jesus guy,
because what Paul provides is a story of Christ, because he never knew Jesus.
He rarely tells us anything about the historical Jesus.
He doesn't really care.
He gets no authority from that.
You know, he tells us that Peter and James are still around.
Those guys get authority from having known the historical Jesus.
They didn't write anything down.
Paul did.
And, you know, he's authorized because he has the most recent intel.
He talked to the risen Christ.
And so that's what he emphasizes.
And he writes it down.
And then 20 years later, after the fall of the temple, when someone's like,
Hey, what's going on with this historical Jesus guy?
What do you have lying around?
Paul.
So, Paul, OK, a couple of things.
And I know this seems minuscule, especially coming from what you do,
you know, the arena you deal with.
These are questions that probably don't really matter at the end of the day.
But the questions I like to ask, because, like, for example,
I've went and visited Delcy Allison, Jr.
He's more on the oral tradition side of things.
And then you have others who have a different perspective,
who are probably more in the classes this field,
like my good friend, Dennis R. McDonald, different people, right?
And and one of the things that there's this like argument from
apologists who think Paul, when he says in 1 Corinthians 15,
he was buried and he rose again.
They think buried means in a tomb and people make up much to do with this.
And they go, well, Paul never said he was buried in a tomb.
The tomb narrative was created by Mark and it wasn't in Paul.
Is it? I mean, do you die on that hill?
Are you willing to say maybe Paul did have a tomb narrative?
And the reason I ask isn't because he really knew that
here's this guy who was really buried in a tomb,
but in all these Roman stories and all of this literature,
maybe Paul saw this motif and I say that with I know this is horrible.
I'm jumping to acts, which is definitely not Paul.
It's late in the game.
But in act 17, there's this interesting quote put in the mouth of Paul,
like the Socratic teacher who says, and it is written,
your own poets have said, Epictetus, not Epictetus.
Sorry, you put that in epaminities.
He quotes epaminities about you two are the offspring of the gods,
and it talks with these Cretans.
So if you start looking into that, they thought they had this cave,
this burial cave where Zeus was buried.
So I'm going, what is going on in all of this literature?
Is Paul in that vein?
And is it OK to say maybe Paul did think tomb,
but we're not talking about a literal down the street here.
We know where it's at because they would have probably been there
worshiping at this tomb, if they knew where it was, if there really was one.
That's another critique of the whole Apologist approach.
But what are your thoughts about the tomb thing?
And I know that's one specific question, but.
Yeah, I'd have to look at the Greek to see what word he uses.
And, you know, first Corinthians 15, the thing I like about that passage,
I've actually been writing about it right now is him talking about that whole
taxonomy of different kinds of flesh, you know, and the resurrection
because I'm actually raising about the moon right now.
And he talks about the moon and the stars and the sun and that section.
So it's important to me to I would want to look at the Greek and I don't have it.
You know, I'm not going to fumble for it right now
because when Paul makes those kinds of references, generally speaking,
he's usually quoting something from the Septuagint when he does it.
So my guess is there's something going on in the Septuagint
that makes him choose that word.
So that doesn't make him the same.
It's not the same thing as the empty tomb or references to the tomb
because you're trying to indicate Jesus as a God now, right?
That was my point at the very end, like saying the Greek novel does this,
you know, there are all kinds of traditions within, you know,
the myth around the Greco-Roman gods would do the same thing.
That, to me, is a literary device that the gospel authors use to convey.
This is his status now.
And remember, like we don't have plagiarism and antiquity.
There is, you know, not all of these, you know, constraints on publication
that we have now.
You were actually expected to make that kind of illusion
to show that you were, like, with it.
Like, you know enough about ancient writing practices
and you're skilled enough to make those kinds of illusions.
And the more of those illusions you could make, it's often a quality
of a period called the Second Sophistic.
The more illusions you can make to, like, I'm so well read,
I know what I'm supposed to do now.
He's a God, well, his body's gone, you know, they tomb roll back.
Oh, well, I see that in the novel all the time.
You see what I mean?
Like that, that's a different process among the writers
than what I see Paul often doing, which is trying to prove something, right?
So Paul's often using language trying to prove something
because he's trying to convince the people he's writing to that he's legit.
If you assume that Paul's already legit, then you can kind of skip that stage,
you know, and then start to make more of those literary connections.
But I would want to look at, you know, as Paul referencing something
that happened in the Septuagint, because he often talks about
to Jesus is cursed on a tree, right?
Instead of saying he was crucified explicitly using that language.
He uses it elsewhere.
But that's back to the Septuagint, too, because he has to explain to these people
why this non-citizen Jewish person who was, you know,
given the worst punishment, capital punishment,
form of capital punishment in the ancient world is now somebody you should,
you know, like a band in your whole lives for, right?
So he has to make a plausible case
that that's more involved.
So does that help a little bit with the question?
That's an interesting point to consider.
And I definitely want to reexamine thinking, buried, what is going on here?
Because people make that historical as well.
They make that very historical and they want to say, what kind of burial?
Was he just a criminal's grave?
Was it just and they they delve into this as a historical question
rather than maybe a theological one?
I don't know. And so the other question I have in Paul
and we'll get into some other stuff as we go, Paul.
He talks about the Lord's Supper, this this Supper of Eucharistic.
So glad you brought this up. Yes.
Yeah, I am a fan of looking into this and going, what is it?
I've had people talk about mystery cults.
I've had, you know, that are in the vein of potentially something here.
We know that there was eating and drinking of the gods
that we see with Osiris.
You can look in some of those sources.
So what do you think is going on with Paul?
That's a better question to ask rather than putting words in your mouth.
So why does he bring up a quote unquote last Supper?
Yeah, well, that one, I'd love to have you address that.
And just in general, why is he teaching this Supper?
People want to historicize that, too.
They want to go to Mark, Luke and Matthew in some way and say,
this is Passover.
This is not a Eucharistic divine
ingestion of the God.
Like this is something historical
that becomes paganized when Gentiles enter the movement.
Yeah. So there's a lot here.
There's a lot here anyway.
So, OK, I love that example
because it's a perfect encapsulation
of the kind of alternative theory that I'm trying to push here,
which is when you read the account
of the so-called Last Supper in the Gospels or in Paul,
if you open up like the Harper Collins Bible
and you look at like the little footnote in the bottom
because they're usually telling you that's why, you know, like I could open up
on the Bible, so I'll be like, you know, tomb, I say, blah, blah, blah.
You know what I mean?
Like you always pick those kind of references.
So that's why you all have Google.
You figure it out.
We'll figure it out later.
But when you go into that,
those footnotes in the like the study Bible,
it always says like, oh, some version of interesting.
This same meal comes up in the Sancti Gospels
and it comes up in Paul.
There must have been an oral tradition or like, you know,
at the origins of the movement, like something that, you know,
traversed all of those fields, like it was passed down to Paul
and Mark and Matthew and Luke, and that's how it ended up in all four.
Wouldn't an easier explanation be Paul doesn't give a story like
I talked to James and Peter and they told me they were there.
He says, zombie Jesus appeared to me and told me he did this thing.
When he does that, it's because he's trying to get authority
for saying, yeah, I didn't know him, but I know stuff that happened to him
because he's appearing to me, you know, in his resurrected form.
And so I actually know more than these other guys.
I'm like the new Jonah.
For some reason, God picked me.
I'm here to tell you what happened.
Here's how I know because Jesus is telling you like Christ.
Christ is appearing to me and telling me I even know about this,
you know, supper story, right?
So that's the context that he's bringing to bear.
When the gospel authors pick up that story,
I mean, the more simple, the simpler explanation is they read the letters
of Paul and they were like, oh, there was a supper.
Like, let me let me include that because apparently, you know,
this is something that is already, you know, extent in the record.
It's just one option, right?
Right. But it's a different historical model than the one we typically assume
in terms of, you know, like trying to figure out how do I make this fit?
Because it doesn't fit my expectations of what's supposed to be happening, right?
Because then you have something like the satirah on that comes in and it's like,
you know, has a whole character doing the same thing.
That has nothing to do with Passover.
Although that character by his name is Jewish from Alchio, which is interesting,
right? So there's there's something going on in terms of literature here.
That's really interesting that I think goes beyond just worrying, you know,
like what is this meal in terms of my expectations for what should be going on
within Judaism in terms of, you know, correct practices, et cetera.
Because the other thing to me is I think people like John Kloppenborg
have convincingly written about when Paul uses the word Ecclesia,
the word church doesn't exist yet. He's talking about an association.
These associations have meals all the time, right?
Like that's part of it. If you're part of an association, which in antiquity,
you know, you'd have associations that had, you know,
deity sponsoring them for all kinds of things.
And if and Paul's taking collections, just like an Ecclesia would do,
if they were whether it's an Ecclesia to Christ or to Zeus or to, you know,
any other God, Serapis, whoever, you know, he's doing the same things.
Meals, collections, organization, you know, he has a hierarchy.
He's trying to implement all the same things that you would say another
Ecclesia and Kloppenborg's most recent book, I think it's called Christ Associations.
He goes through, he doesn't obsess over the Christian material,
but he gives all the examples we have from the Greco-Roman Ecclesia
that, you know, have nothing to do with Christianity.
And it's really, really interesting. So that meal, I think.
I gotta get it. You're making me have to buy another book.
I love it. Sorry. Oh, no, it's good. It's good.
So, OK, a couple of things.
I loved your satiricon connection and the rooster, the cockroaches.
I think you mentioned in one of your examples in another video about crucified men.
Oh, can I tell that story real quick? Please, please.
Really fast.
The satiricon has something it's called the widow of Ephesus.
It's a it's a story that existed.
It's called a fusion tale so long before, like, you know, first century B.C.
But in this particular version in the satiricon,
there is a Roman soldier guarding three crucified men
and he hears someone weeping in a tomb and he rolls back the tomb
and he finds the widow of a deceased man crying there.
And so he brings her all kinds of food, long story short.
They, you know, she gets over the grief, if you know what I mean.
I think the way that the story puts it is they give into the temptations
that tend to happen when you have like a full stomach of like food and wine, right?
Right. So for three days and three nights, they're basically in the tomb.
And then when the Roman soldier comes out,
he realizes that the family of one of the men has taken his body down off the cross.
If any of the Roman, you know, authorities figure out that he abandoned
his post to be doing what he was doing.
So the widow says, why don't we just take my husband's body, you know,
like he's not using it and we'll put that up on the cross instead.
So it'll look like, you know, nobody was missing.
And so that's what they do so that she can save the room, you know,
use the dead man to save a live one.
And so the tomb is empty, his body goes up on the cross
and the Roman soldier gets saved.
So that's in the satiricon.
So, you know, I read that and I'm like, I've got Tremolchio having a funeral meal,
dividing his body, Cox and Crowen.
And the next thing you know, there are three men on a cross and a Roman soldier,
you know, with an empty tomb.
I mean, like all of those motifs together, I'm a little bit agnostic, actually,
like as are the gospel authors reading the satiricon.
Is this just a satiricon, a satire of Christianity?
If you believe recent lines of thought and classics,
that it's a second century text, somebody who knows plenty,
plenty's writing to Trajan saying, you know, they're Christians.
What do I do with them?
Yeah, it could be a satire.
But at the end of the day, all of those motifs are just common in literature.
So if you're writing ancient literature, you know, you might throw in an
illusion to the Ephesian tale, right?
Like, even if it's starkly different in the Gospels,
all of those motifs are there and they're just a way to tell a story.
So if the gospel authors are not as obsessed with origins as we are,
if that wasn't there, you know, we assume they're trying to record
oral tradition, this is super important to them.
You know, their their point is to record the origins,
because that's what we want.
If that's not what they wanted and they're just writing
because they're writers, even if they're part of a Christian group, whatever,
they're going to still make of the kind of illusions to something like
the Ephesian tale that everybody else already knows.
Wow. It makes me think of the.
What's the theory where they give him poison or drink and he feints
and he survives the crucifixion in the tomb after three days?
Oh, yeah. I can't remember the.
I don't know why I'm drawing a blank.
But yes, I'm not saying that that's what's happening,
but it just makes me kind of wonder.
No wonder why people are trying to say, well, if this is historical,
he survived in the writing these stories as though they could like the real,
but they're not there. They're literally literature.
So I have to ask you the $100 or $100 million question,
and it may not seem like that to you,
but it is with the people who watch my channel.
I've been interviewing Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald for quite some time.
He has been ignored.
I mean, absolutely like I quote him.
I think I think he's in my book.
I'm thankful that you've done that because whether or not,
and this is me and him, we've talked.
Yeah, he's American Ethics and the Gospel of Mark.
Yeah, I use him.
I'm glad somebody's paying attention.
At least, you know, Dennis and I've talked and Dennis is,
you know, kind of a little bit like irked at the guild, right?
You've probably going to deal with it yourself,
especially with this kind of hypothesis,
because it literally rolls over everybody in their tomb.
They see what you said.
They're like, oh, you just literally took everything we did and just.
All right, new idea.
It's really a brilliant idea.
He admits that many of what he, these connections he makes are weak.
Some of them, not all, but like a lot of them,
you kind of, he thinks might be a stretch, may or may not be.
He said, but some of them are clearly, it's,
it just seems to be obvious to him.
And he said, I've been looking at it and it's difficult
when you look at Homeric Greek versus just regular, I guess you'd say.
Yes, the Koine Greek that, yeah.
Yeah.
And he says it's difficult because they expect a verbatim from Homeric Greek,
but he said anyone in an ancient school that are learning
have to know the Homer, the Homeric, Homeric epics and, and it's in the air.
So he said, this is the problem he has is it's not,
do you think there's memetic?
I have a book open here.
I have a book open here and I'm going to copy.
That's not what he's trying to convey.
He's saying, I want to show you this is in the air and used by them.
And if they're elite authors, as you're suggesting, then it,
it would be, I think obvious that they're aware of Hector, for example,
being dragged by the chariot for three days by Achilles.
And the hero of the city who gets killed,
then the cause of the destruction of the city.
Here you have Jesus, the hero of the city of Jerusalem,
get killed, the destruction of the city.
And, and three days, three days, he's dragged by Hector.
His body doesn't fall apart.
Jesus, not one bone.
And it fulfills prophecy.
I mean, it just over and over, he makes these echoes.
Then his father goes to Achilles and asks for the body.
This is probably a stretch, Joseph of Arimathea.
The name Joseph at least is indicated to be the father of Jesus,
not saying he is the father,
but the point is he goes for the body to bury him, et cetera.
And over and over, I saw this and I said, man, this is beautiful.
Even if you thought some of the connections aren't right,
what's going on here?
And I'll shut up by simply saying, do you find,
I don't know how much you've read of him,
but do you find that there is some truth to this?
Dennis is upset that people who are writing commentaries,
even if they don't buy the whole memetic, they don't even mention,
oh, this is an illusion.
This seems like it might have come from the Greek.
No, they're always Hebrew Bible, or Septuagint,
over and over and over.
It's all they focus on.
Sorry, I had to get my bag.
Yeah, it's, no, no, I love that.
Yeah, no, I'm with him for a lot of reasons.
There's actually like six different things up off into my head
while you were talking that I could reference,
but not treating this literature like it has to be special, right?
But depending on the assumptions you make about that social context,
this is kind of my point, you're going to lose those cross references
or lose that context because if you don't understand these texts,
if you understand these texts as the definitive oral tradition passed on
and codified by a community that's finally written down,
and by the time it's written down, it's been so repeated
and cherished word for word that, of course,
this Gospel writer with a few slide variations
because of whatever's happening in the community at the time
might emphasize one thing a little bit differently than the other,
but it's like the historical Jesus that can't be touched, right?
If that's your picture, the community, and that social formation as the most formative,
then, of course, you're not going to look to literature
because what would that mean, right?
Like that destroys that whole idea of trying to get at that origin
and the primitive Christian, et cetera.
But I can tell you that, you know, having looked a lot at ancient education for this book,
like there are some, like I hear about some of those,
or read about some of those tests that those people took, like, no, thank you.
They would have to like, you know, write me a monologue
of what Medea would have said if she decided not to kill her kids.
You know, like these kind of, like, you would have to do character studies, basically,
and like, take your, you know, try your hand at, like, can I write a better version of this?
Or can I fill in a blank, right, that is missing from the story of Hector?
But you would know all those motifs.
And, you know, I sometimes will say to people, when I write, it's in English, it looks like a paper,
you know, like, or it looks like an academic paper.
You can't really write an academic book and pretend you're a creative writer.
You know, it just doesn't, like, I'm married to a poet.
I'm not going to try to write this in verse, right?
Like, there's a genre form that you have to take
to convey this information citation practices that I have to observe,
or they're not going to publish the book.
And the people in antiquity, yeah, they don't have plagiarism
or exactly the same kinds of, it's not a one-to-one kind of, you know, comparison,
but they have their own habits.
And they have their own expectations.
And they're going to follow those, right?
And so I don't think it's beyond the stretch of the imagination,
you know, what New Testament people and sometimes people who,
and I don't mean people like I'm outside of all of the,
I do like deep studies of texts as well and comparisons and that kind of thing.
There's a lot of obsession in the field though with
breaking down a lot of also the teachings of Jesus into like these minutiae of like, you know,
what about this preposition instead of this one, right?
Or like exactly what is being referenced here.
That has been a methodology that persists for generations.
And it's very interesting and it is revelatory in its own way.
But if you've spent that much time like trying to do those kinds of comparisons within,
like, scripture, it's going to seem a little weird when you start doing it,
say, with Homer.
Because it also again challenges what you think about the backgrounds
of the people who are writing these things and the social context that they're in.
But I think the more we break that kind of stuff down,
and I think that he has done that,
McDonald has done that with a lot of his work.
I mean, the other thing that popped into my head is,
I'm writing right now about Freud and his approaches to religion.
And the thing about Freud is everybody quotes,
like, day to day, we're all catharsis.
I mean, Aristotle used it, but like when we use it today, that's from Freud.
You know, we're edipal complex or, you know, talking about your it or whatever,
or your ego, like, that's all, thank you, Freud.
But I don't think a lot of people like go back and totally like read.
I mean, if you go back and read Freud in the German,
like you're not going to be a happy person like you without
way into the thing I publish, right?
But, you know, when I start to think about how even I use like free in terms,
and I don't even realize, like, we are still imbued in like Freudian thought and terminology today.
You know, and I see it in scholarship now sometimes too,
like people are invoking Freud, they don't even know they're doing it.
So sometimes you're swimming in certain intellectual waters,
and people day to day, or even in, you know, scholarship or other kinds of writing,
don't even totally, they're not even totally conscious of it,
but it's happening, right?
Just depending on how discourse is going on in the period.
So I think the more we do that kind of work, yeah, sure,
you might not be able to take Homeric Reef and compare it to the Coine and, you know,
make up proof, like this was what.
But that's why I try to be careful with the satiricon.
I'm not trying to prove anybody's sighting anybody, but I mean, bam, like these motifs are there,
whether it's the empty tomb, the Roman soldier, you know,
and these are things that also appear in place, you know,
so not even, so people who even attend, you know, the theater might
account for these kinds of character types, all of these things, I think,
should be factors in how we imagine this literature function in the first century.
Wow, there's so many things.
What about the three men crucified in Josephus' account?
Two of his, the three of his friends, and I don't know if you heard this,
but in his, I don't remember.
It's in his, maybe it's in his autobiography, I'm not sure.
He wrote about three of his buddies that were crucified,
and he went and asked Vespasian to take them down, like, or was Titus at the time.
I suspect it was Titus.
I cannot remember if it was Vespasian or Titus.
Either way, he goes to ask them and take them down.
They take them down, two of them died, and one survived from the wounds.
So this is in Josephus.
This seems to be maybe a literary thing in his.
I don't know, but I am scratching my head going,
maybe what if this is a motif?
What if this is something like you talk about?
Did one borrow from the Satiricon or vice versa?
What if there's something they're both in the Greco-Roman world pulling from?
There might be something we just don't have right now, or I don't know.
Yeah, it's always a possibility.
And you know, Josephus is an interesting case because
he'll write about one thing under the auspices of the Flavians
that make them look really good.
And then he'll rewrite it later when he's not under their thumb.
And it's a totally different story.
So you always have to contextualize what he's saying too.
I think often when he's writing his histories for the Flavians,
I've always been a little bit curious,
how much is he under duress when he's writing this?
Because he's essentially a prisoner of war.
So it's never been completely clear to me what his status is.
And so I think that's also something to factor into.
You know, he might default to the literary when in a tight spot,
because I think he was being closely monitored in some of the things that he wrote.
Wow.
One little thing that came to mind when you talk about this literature,
this Greco-Roman, the literary, rather than just the scripture,
if I can use the term, I mean Septuagint,
is they'll say as it is written or it's written or they'll quote.
And you know that that's a direct memetic if you want to use the term
or borrowing using this literature.
Oftentimes people will say it's recontextualization,
like recontextualization taking place.
So for their own intention, whatever the author has.
If there are these elite, I'm asking you maybe in your framework,
though these elite most likely Roman authors in some sense,
we don't know their ethnicity probably, we might lean in certain directions.
I don't know in your view.
They're probably men for sure.
We can say that, it would be odd if they weren't.
And they're quoting not only the Septuagint,
but Dennis would say, for example, look at the not the Odyssey, the Aeneid.
The Aeneid is using Homer's Odyssey, the Iliad,
and never once says it is written or I'm quoting.
They just rewrite it.
They don't say I'm using this to write this anywhere in it.
He just rewrites the story.
And never references it.
There seems to be references in the Gospels,
but then if there is this memetic narrative connection to the Homeric,
Epics, Iliad, Odyssey, Euripides, Abakai, and Acts, whatever it might be,
they don't quote it.
They just use it.
And what are your thoughts about these authors?
Yeah, so I mean, when they're quoting, say the Septuagint,
or making reference back to Jewish literature,
again, it's an authorizing strategy.
What I'm saying is legit because this was predicted,
or what I'm saying is legit because this is, again, Judaism is respected and protected
to a certain degree in the imperial world because it's so old.
And so to reference those texts, you're also saying,
what I'm saying is not out of left field.
As it was written, this is the kind of thing that's going to happen.
Nobody is questioning the foundational nature of Homer,
or I mean, the purpose of Virgil writing is to kind of reestablish
a new foundational epic for those who are in power.
So he doesn't have to be like, well, I asked Homer, everybody knows,
he's not having to make a proof, right?
Like they're already in power.
He's not in a position where he has to try to create legitimacy or authorize himself.
But the Gospels are, to the extent that they're trying to tell a story that's rooted
in this other kind of literature, this sacred literature or scripture,
whatever you want to call it,
they're going to have to make these callbacks.
It was written here, and this is how this fulfilled a prophecy.
This is how this fulfilled something predicted,
because Jesus is the predicted Jewish Messiah, right?
Like that's the whole premise.
We tend to lose that with Christianity,
but the whole premise even for Paul is Jesus is Jewish, followers are Jewish,
Paul is Jewish, right?
Like it's a Jewish movement that Paul is the outlier
who starts talking to the Gentiles,
because as it was written, a certain number of Gentiles
have to return to the fold to recognize the Jewish God as the one true God
in order for Jesus to institute or Christ to, you know,
institute this kind of final whatever's got like battle that's going to happen, you know?
That sounded like Paula Fredrickson, actually.
I don't know if you know her works, but she said that same thing
where the nations, this predictive the nations,
and if he's a rabbi, he's aware that in the end times,
I wonder if that spark with the apocalyptic fever that was already in the air,
looking at the Qumran sects, et cetera.
It's just in the air since Daniel.
I mean, everyone thought the end's going to end any moment now,
the Qumran calculations that seems like there might be calculations in Paul's head.
I don't know, but my question in that vein is,
do you think that seeing the God fears coming into these synagogues
and the diaspora sparked that as like, why are non-Israelite pagans out here,
these Gentiles coming and finding real serious interest in the God of it?
No, I don't think so much only because, I mean, often these God fears,
that's kind of an interesting category, and I'm glad you brought it up,
because even in inscriptional evidence, like, they never fully convert,
but they still are wanting to be a part of the synagogue or the community.
And so I think it just highlights, you know, we have a tendency to see three categories,
Jewish, Christian, Roman, right?
But it's a big, you know, you couldn't necessarily tell walking down the street who was who, right?
So I think it just shows that those divides are our divides,
maybe now it's really dividing people as concretely as we tend to present it in the ancient world.
So I think that that, the God fears, I don't think we're the catalyst necessarily.
I think for Paul, the catalyst and why I think he's down with this whole,
like, the end of the world thing is happening is because when he has these experiences of the
risen Christ, and I have no reason to challenge him on that, I don't know that he's making it up,
right? But when he had authentic experiences.
Yeah, I'm not trying to, like, throw everything out, right?
So I'm not going to question that he had these experiences,
but what he describes in having those experiences are, I know that this guy is legit,
because when, you know, we take over, you know, because we're the chosen people and when God's
kingdom is here on earth, etc., he's going to take away all the evils, right? And the first evil he
says is death. So if Jesus defeated death in his resurrection, we know it started, it's like the
first domino, right? And so then everything else is going to follow. And part of that process
has to be that some of these Gentiles, as it was written, are going to, you know,
incorporate themselves into this movement. So I don't think Paul thinks he's a Christian,
he never uses the word. I don't think he, I think by maybe Roman, the period of Romans,
like there's a little bit of like, what am I doing here, right? Because I think he thought I'm just
incorporating some Gentiles, you don't even, you have a whole new covenant, you don't even have
to circumcise, you don't have to follow the dietary laws, your covenant is baptism, Eucharist,
like he establishes a different covenant for the Gentiles. But you know, Jewish people keep doing
what you're doing, right? But he, it seems like a holding pattern, the way he describes it, right?
And then, but he does see that first act of resurrection being the clue, like this is,
this is how it's going to happen. And so I'm going to, he does describe himself like a new Jonah,
like my job is for some reason, God has picked me. And so I have to help usher in this new age.
And I'm pretty sure when that war in Jerusalem started to happen with the Romans,
I'm guessing a lot of people thought that was it. And then, and then it didn't go the way it
should have. And then after that, you start to see Gospels. I don't think that's a coincidence.
So I think that there's something that happens in that interim, where you have kind of a look
back at, you know, what teachings might we have missed, not because the oral tradition persisted.
I'm not saying that, but because I think a lot of stuff comes from Paul,
or it's filled in again with what we're talking about motifs from literature and other things.
I figure out because, you know, what we were expecting did not happen. So
Oh, you're muted.
Sorry, you brought up resurrection. And just to end on this note, because there's so much,
we have not what we can discuss and get into. I mean, more questions keep coming up in my head
as I'm like, okay, this is really interesting. I'm wondering, how do we fit this in?
Resurrection. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, flesh and blood does not inherit the kingdom of God.
We have this clear, clear indication that it's spiritual. Now, like you said,
Numa, the wind spirit, however you wanted to find this in Greek, it is physical and it's tangible
in some sense, but it's not physical. What I mean is, is like, if I die and you said, well,
their experience is resurrected, you're not going to look at my corpse and say that came back,
it's something, but it's not the category of like that what's rotting. Oh, now it's not rotting.
What do you think's happening? How does your paradigm explain what scholars will say is this
development where here you have spirit, then you have empty tomb, but there's no parents and
there's this cut off and mark, which is such an enigma for so many people because they want to
try and find a way where communities are fitting in. Oh yeah, that's a terrible ending if you want
community. That ending of Mark just sucks if you want community. I'm not saying later on,
communities didn't, they tacked on something, but the point is, they end up having him say,
hey, Thomas, feel my, you see that, feel that, hey, flesh and blood doesn't, or spirit, he says in
bone, which is weird that he chose bone instead of like, or bone and yeah, flesh and bone instead
of flesh and blood, but really weird that that's used in John, but either way, touch me, feel me,
a ghost does not, or spirit does not do this. What's happening in your paradigm that this
gospels are starting to make him more physical? So I think Paul does it too.
And this is actually something I'm working on right now. So I'm trying to do that thing where
I'm balancing like, not really. If you have to say I can't answer right now, we'll follow up,
we'll follow up. I have another question if not, so. No, no, I'll answer it. Let me, let me try and
answer, because I think this is important. So a few things. One is only extra special dudes get
like the full body and ladies get the full body resurrection like right off the bat, right? So
that's the empty tomb thing like that's reserved for like super special. So I think that that's
one thing that's going on from a literary aspect. In terms of what Paul's saying in First Corinthians
15, I think he's being very stoic or middle Platonist and his understanding of pneumatic bodies,
especially in that section like what is it 34 to 42 or something like that where he really
breaks down, you know, there's one kind of he's a shark so flesh, there's one kind of flesh for
animals, one for fishes, one for and then, you know, talks about there's one flesh kind of body
that you have on earth and then you have this pneumatic body. I think he literally means you're
going to have a pneumatic body, meaning you're going to have a body that's made of this extra
refined God like stuff. Now, if you read an author like Plutarch, who writes in the same period,
he writes something that's called on the face of the moon and he's a middle Platonist too.
What he says is that what happens when you die is that your body goes into the earth and that's
your first death because the earth is going to subsume the body decompose it. When that happens
you're what we would call your soul and your mind. So your noose and your suitcase rips violently
from the body and shoots up into space basically. And if you were a person who wasn't attached to
your body, then you're actually going to either your noose is going to fly into the sun and your
soul is going to basically implant in the moon and kind of purify itself or purify itself in
like the solar wind and then it'll either like go off to Elysium or you'll be put into another body.
If you were, so that's like for the wise man, right? But if you weren't and you were attached to
the body, you're just going to kind of be like a spirit, but sort of like a diamond that kind of
floats back and forth. You can intercede in human events, but you're not going to have a physical
form. So there's a lot of, in other words, there's a lot of people talking about this
in this period. So the idea that you would have some kind of body that would take on some kind
of material form that might be more ethereal. Like one thing that philosophers always do,
especially the Stoics is, you know, if you see a God appear to you, they're very much about like
sense perception being evidence for things. If a God appears to you, it's going to look like
it's a solid, but if you touch it, it's not. So like is that, you know, like what do we do with
that? Like what kind of knowledge is that? Is that like deep scientific knowledge or like do we
just like, how do we make a judgment on that? There are all kinds of debates about it. So my
thought is that Paul being a good philosopher, I think the gospel writers are aware of this kind
of philosophy. And I think later writers are also trying to engage us. They're all trying to kind
of find a happy medium between how they describe this either in literary terms or philosophical
ones. Does that, does that help a little bit? Yes. And I don't want you to give away too much
because I can't wait to actually like read your upcoming work. This makes me with a capital G
want to deal with the Gnostics, but we're not going there. Maybe someday I can talk to you about
maybe how this, because this is really interesting. It would make a lot of sense where these wild
groups come out. Like the dosatism theory, like he's just a ghost on the cross. He didn't really
suffer. Like don't worry about it. You know, well, no, he has to suffer, right? Like so
these debates about the nature of the body, the nature of the spiritual body versus the
physical body, I mean, we see it in Paul, but it is throughout. So when you see a gospel author
sort of taking a tact, you have to, I think, you know, think is this because for purely like
stylistic literary reasons, like what do I see as the cross references from a literary standpoint,
but what also is trying to be conveyed about this particular writer's positionality as it
pertains to whatever's going on philosophically in this period, where you see different things
coming from the quote unquote Gnostics or different things coming from someone like Plutarch or
Philo talks about it a lot. So, you know, this is some, there's no definitive like nobody has
like this is the way people think, you know, your body, how to represent your body. But I will say,
yeah, you know, when a certain emperors and founders of cities and, you know, heroes and or
like the example I gave in keraton, you know, like when certain mortals become immortal, the idea
that the body shoots right up, like the whole thing that's out there. So you think Paul might be
thinking physical and of course, because he seems to be thinking both. But he talks about
basically like a divine city, where it seems like he think because there's an anxiety in
the letters from the people he writes to who are like, you know, Joe died, or whoever, like Bob died.
Yeah. Yeah, like, so you said we were going to have these like pneumatic bodies, but like
Bob's decomposing like how does that work? You know what I mean? Like there are a lot of it seems
like he is saying one thing. And then it's coming out, you know, in a different way.
This is so much fun. Okay, I'm going to have to let you go. I got to ask one question, though.
This is about Matthew. We talked about this as the whole paradigm has changed with your theory
here. That Matthew, it's you and other scholars are in this milieu of thinking that I really
appreciate yours is a groundbreaking work. Go get the book. Matthew, Matthew, everyone says this is
a Jewish practicing Torah observant Jewish community that has broken off, if you will, from
the synagogue from, you know, maybe a form of Judaism, I'm not sure. How do you view Matthew?
Because I am still confused by this author when he writes seemingly Jewish only. I mean, like,
for the whole book, then he's like, now go. But there's hints throughout this Jewish only to
like, Oh, well, this Romans into the centurion gets it. No one in Israel gets it. This guy's got
the best faith. Every time it can point to a non-Israelite or I say non Jews, Gentiles,
it seems replacement theology type of, I guess, or something what people call that.
I'm confused. I'm very confused. Go only to the law sheep of the house of Israel. Don't go to the
Gentiles. Don't go to the Samaritans. But then Luke leaves all that out. He doesn't want you to see
that stuff. I don't know. I don't know. What do you think? So a couple of things there too. And
just a warning that one ear bud just died and the other one gave me a beep beep beep. So we'll see how
long I I make it with you. This is it. Okay. All right. So if you lose me, we might have to change
the audio. So, so Matthew clearly has read Mark. I don't really dispute that. And he's real creeped
out by the exorcisms. He doesn't like that stuff. He doesn't like any of the, you know, like pneumatic
spooky stuff, like all that he's, you know, he takes all that out, right, for the most part.
And I think he saw and mark, like, we're really not enough references back to Scripture, right,
for the reasons that we've already talked about. So I can kind of shorthand that. And so that seems
to be his kind of unique intercession and to what I see as kind of a competition between authors.
But the other thing, and here I'm very influenced by the work of Stanley Stowers and a scholar named
Aaron Roberts, who's at South Carolina, who has written that in many ways, the Jesus and Matthew
was very stoic, because he's angry a lot. And the way that he talks about anger, and she,
Aaron Roberts had a dissertation at Brown that's going to come out as a book with Oxford University
Press. And she points out that the way he talks about anger is exactly how the Stoics do it.
So in a way, he's just like Philo or just like Paul, a Jewish writer possibly, or at least somebody
who's well versed in that Scripture or in that world, who is also well versed in the popular
philosophy of his day and merging the two. Now, if you come from not you, but if one comes to this
text from the position of like, oh, well, it's a Jewish community, and they left the synagogue,
and they're mad, and that like, if you try to do that community reconstruction approach that I'm
saying, you know, is a bit dubious given that whole Germanic, you know, German scholarship
background, romantic background, then you can start to see, you know, maybe this is actually
just like a Jewish, inflected approach to stoic ideas with Jesus as that central figure who's
negotiating that. So I recommend everybody take a look at Roberts. I think Stowers has one article
on this and to look at Robert's book when it does come out, because I think it's going to be
another one of those ruptures in the field that really causes a stir. Ladies and gentlemen,
robinfaithwalsh.com. Thank you so much for your time. This has been fantastic. I hope I haven't
bothered you too much with this long recording. I really enjoyed this. Go get the book. You don't
want to miss it. It goes into far more detail than we can even get into here, but creates more
questions, which means more ideas we can consider. But I feel like you're so much closer to things
just by what I'm reading. I'm like, now we're getting somewhere. And that's how I feel.
Well, I think it's going to open up conversations. That's that's what I want, you know, because I
often hear people say like, Oh, well, there's nothing else for us to do. Like we've looked at
all these compared. And I just think no, you know, only if you kind of accept what we've inherited
in terms of method and that kind of thing. But I hope it opens a conversation for new ways to
approach this material and get to know it better. Whether you're from a faith background or not,
I think it'll help you understand these these origins. Thank you for your time. Yeah. Any final
words? Just thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to talk. I love talking about this stuff. I could
talk about it all day. So thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let us know what
you think down in the comment section of this discussion. I'd be happy to hear your thoughts
and ideas maybe for upcoming episodes, of course. I really look forward to it. And if you're lost,
you don't know your way, you're trying to figure things out. Just say these three words. We are
our Midsfusion.
You
