The B'nai Elohim, the sons of God, were smaller, lower-level deities within this Divine Council.
And we see all sorts of references to the B'nai Elohim, the sons of the God, all throughout the Hebrew Bible, and especially here in the story of Job.
It's the same sort of expression that you see throughout the Ugaritic and the Canaanite literature, such as in the Baal cycle.
This story illustrates the function and the ancient view of the court of the Chief God.
Bullet points, within the larger Near Eastern world, it was polytheistic.
The gods as a group, they exercised control over the function and destinies of the cosmos.
The Divine Council was a reflection of human government.
We call it a pantheon.
The visual illustration of the pantheon, this is, I believe it was constructed by Hadrian, this magnificent temple in the city of Rome.
He built literally to house the images and the statues of the gods from various cities and regions that Rome collected over the years.
So the gods were anthropomorphic and they were anthropopassive.
They reflected human characteristics and human feelings.
And we see some of this in the Hebrew Bible as well.
They were procreative, they were fallible, they were emotional.
Think about the opening of the story of the flood in Genesis chapter 6.
The gods, the sons of the gods, literally the B'nai Elohim, they come down, they see the daughters of men.
They see human offspring, human women.
They saw that they were beautiful and they had sex with them.
The gods were like superhumans.
The gods decreed destinies and made ad hoc decisions about the process of governing the world.
So a question arises here.
Within this pantheon, there's a king of the gods and all these lesser deities which are identified as the B'nai Elohim.
The sons of the gods.
So at some point in Israel's history, Yahweh became the king of the gods.
So how does a god become the king of the universe?
It happens in a type of a sentencing.
Gods were territorial, very much like people, very much like human governments.
They would work to extend their own territory from their power base.
The most powerful god would assume priority and control over the divine council.
And this is something that we actually see recorded.
There we go.
In the Baal Cycle tablet 3, columns 3, line 33 to column 4, line 4.
There's possibly also an ascendancy that we see in the Hebrew Bible recorded in Psalm 89.
Who in the skies above can compare with Yahweh?
Who is like the Yahweh among the heavenly beings?
The council of the holy ones.
Bekahel Kedoshim.
Kadosh is a frequently occurring word in the Hebrew Bible that most often means divine being of some sort.
Or in this case, most likely lesser gods.
Okay, let's continue in verse 7.
Verse 7, in the council of the holy ones, Yahweh is greatly feared.
He is more awesome than all who surround him.
Bishochek, which literally means in the clouds.
So there's a reflection here.
Yahweh is in irreverence by those around him.
The expression here is actually Ya'arok le Adonai.
A word this Ya'arok is literally, it's commonly used in a more militaristic context of facing off.
So already there's a vision of the divine council in which there's competition.
The gods are their rivals.
As much as they have to work together, they're also trying to best each other.
Who is like you, Yahweh, God Almighty?
You, Yahweh, are mighty and your faithfulness surrounds you.
There's mention here of a secret council of the holy ones in verse 8.
And again, these are divine beings.
Verse 9, you rule over the surging sea.
When its waves mount up, you still them.
You crushed Rahab like one of the slain.
With your strong arm, you scattered your enemies.
We've got the pride and presumptuousness of the sea.
We've got Rahab, who is like a mythical sea creature.
Also mentioned in Isaiah chapter 51 verse 9 and Job 9 verse 13.
Many think that those passages and what's depicted here is a reflection of an alternative sort of creation myth where Yahweh had to go and defeat this great beast.
Here, as part of his ascendancy, as part of what's necessary in order to become the king, the king of the gods.
The heavens are yours and yours also the earth.
You founded the world and all that is in it.
You created the north and the south.
Tabor and Hermon sing for joy at your name.
These figures, Tabor and Hermon, these are actually rival king and ideologies.
In the copying and the transmission of this song, these become more reflective of geographical locations.
Your arm is endowed with power.
Your hand is strong.
Your right hand exalted.
Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne.
Love and faithfulness go before you.
Blessed are those who have learned to acclaim you, who walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.
They rejoice in your name all day long.
They celebrate your righteousness.
For you are their glory and strength and by your favor you exalt our horn.
Indeed, our shield belongs to Yahweh, our king to the Holy One of Israel.
The Holy One of Israel is our king.
The Holy One of Israel here is the title that the psalmist is ascribing to Yahweh.
And by identifying him as the king, he's also setting him on a plane above the other rival deities.
What we have here is a view of a divine council, a view of a group of gods who work together
and oftentimes compete against one another to control and determine the destinies of the cosmos
and of people and nations.
Within this system, what we also see, and this is something that I'm happy you alluded to
in your conversation with Professor Collins, the gods have limits.
Within this system, one god will always be viewed above the others
and within this system because there's always the potential that another lower deity can usurp the king.
There is no possibility for omnipotence, omnipresence, or omniscience, or what we identify as the transcendent attributes.
Transcendent attributes never existed within a polytheistic world in which the gods contended for power.
And the reason later generations came to ascribe to Yahweh the most powerful, the greatest, the all-knowing, the all-present
is because the way that you spoke about the king of the gods relative to all the other gods was like this.
Monotheism is definitely something that develops within the Hebrew Bible.
You can set all sorts of passages from the Old Testament onto a spectrum, onto a timeline that shows a gradual progression
away from a polytheistic worldview into a progressively more monotheistic worldview.
We've got texts such as Deuteronomy 32 or Genesis chapter 6 or Job chapter 1 or Genesis chapter 1, which are quite obviously polytheistic.
They reflect a cosmos replete with numerous gods within a divine council.
And as time passes, you have likely large sections of Deuteronomy were composed, or at the time of the prophets such as Jeremiah or Second Isaiah.
This polytheistic view is beginning very clearly to diminish, and a Yahweh-only movement is strongly emerging.
And then by the time of the writing of the book of Ezra or of Nehemiah, you have a full-blown monotheistic worldview.
You can track this throughout the Hebrew Bible texts, and you can in many ways use this almost like an index fossil to date texts.
