Please become a patron of MythFishing Podcast. Get access to everything early. Help us grow.
Ian Mills, host of the New Testament podcast review. New Testament review podcast. Let's get that thing back where that's why I always look at you like me when I'm not saying it right.
Make sure you guys go down in the description. Join his YouTube. Check him out. Hit that bell. Make sure you guys check him out.
I'm telling you, wonderful, wonderful guy. He knows a lot of material about the New Testament. He's studied quite a bit of scholarship on this topic.
And I want you guys to check out the podcast as well as the patron that he's going to be getting better at it. I'm pressing him and he's got to get it up.
But I want to know the historical Jesus coming from obviously Duke University or the scholarly academic, the consensus is there was a guy. His name was Jesus and he was a Jew.
He taught some things and he was killed for some things he was teaching or claiming and therefore we need to know something because a lot of people who watch my channel say he didn't exist.
They're mythicists. They say that he didn't exist and I say that to say. I'm speaking to someone who knows what the scholars say. Tell me about Jesus.
Absolutely. My colleagues fall along the entire ideological religious spectrum. I have atheist professors. I have Jewish professors. I have Muslim professors and Christian professors.
And the R1 universities, the universities are not filled with apologists or not filled with systematic theologians.
And you cannot walk into a university currently and find any professor of New Testament or ancient history who does not believe in historical Jesus.
This is a logical fallacy of a consensus. Look, I'm all ears. Like I said, I lean historicist. I think I'm minimalist, if anything, though I think there's a guy. I guess I have to probe and say, well, since you just now did the consensus, I think you did it on purpose.
And I know you know that's not proof. But what you're trying to suggest is there's a reason they all do and I'm asking for that.
I will happily give you my justifications. The thing is, I am not an expert on vaccines. But you know what, it's not proof to me that nobody, no doctor in the country thinks vaccines will give you 5G or download Bill Gates' brain into you.
That doesn't prove that that's not true. But you know what, I haven't spent my time learning genome sequences. I haven't spent time studying epidemiology of vaccine science.
So as a rational person, a person who realizes I can't become an expert on absolutely everything, I rely on the expertise of other people. When I do, when I study the Dead Sea Scrolls, I am not an expert on comparative philology, on Hebrew and Ugaritic and Akkadian and things like that.
So when I'm trying to figure out how to translate a word, how to figure out what a particular Hebrew word means, I need to rely on the expertise of these other people. And if there is a consensus and everyone thinks the same way, that doesn't mean it must be true.
To be a rational actor in the world, you need to give that weight, that needs to be significant. That if you are going to challenge that, you need to make sure you have really, really strong reasons to go against the people who have spent their entire life studying these texts.
And let me tell you, the people who are professors of New Testament, some of them are folks on Paul, some of them focus on Second Temple Judaism, some of them are really interested in Gnostics, but they've spent their entire life learning ancient languages, reading primary sources.
They are not tendentious people who are trying to defend Christianity. They believe in the historical Jesus because there's good reasons to. So why? That's what you wanted to know.
Yes, so what do we have? The best evidence, the strongest evidence we have are the letters of Paul, the two references in Josephus that a lot of online atheists get confused about, and the Gospels.
Let's start with the letters of Paul, which are written by a Pharisee Jew who never met Jesus, never claims to have met Jesus. But he's also not arguing that Jesus existed. He's not arguing with people who don't think Jesus existed.
That's not the conversation that's happening. He is actually confronting other Christians, other people who are citing the teachings of Jesus against him.
Look at Paul on marriage, the first Corinthians. Look at Paul on whether or not teachers deserve to be paid for their work.
And these are places where Paul cites the teachings of Jesus and says, I know Jesus taught that, but I have reasons to do other things in these cases.
Where Paul is acknowledging that the teaching of Jesus that everyone else knows is not his practice, is different from his practice.
That is the thing that Paul and his opponents hold in common is that Jesus taught certain things that don't accord with Paul's own practice, which is fascinating.
We, of course, get other hints about the teachings of Lord and First Thessalonians and the institution of the Last Supper in 1 Corinthians 15, where we have the words of institution.
So there's those. The other really important thing to note about Paul is not just that him and all of his audience hold in common that there's these teachings of Jesus about mundane things like whether or not you should pay your teachers.
But also that Paul claims to have twice met James.
And I know the online atheists are going to say, fictive kinship. Everyone calls each other brother and sister in the Lord. That's true. No debate.
But we can, Derek, as if you've watched his show, likes calling people brother.
But when he says, you know, Ian brother, things like that, I know what he means. He does not claiming that we have the same mother.
And when he says, yeah, and I just got a call from my brother about this, I automatically know he's not referring to one of his friends on the YouTube.
He's now referring to because because of something called pragmatics, because we can pay attention to context and contextual clues and how it's being used in a conversation to figure that out.
And if you go read 1 Corinthians and Galatians, where Paul talks about James, the brother of our Lord, first of all, the brother of our Lord is not the phrase that Paul consists of.
He just only uses to refer to fictive kinships. This is a unique articulation. The word brother is the same, but the rest isn't.
Look how it's being used in those contexts. He's saying, in 1 Corinthians, he's saying, I have the right to have a wife, just like Cephas does, just like the brothers of the Lord do.
He's not saying like all Christians do. That doesn't make sense in that context.
We talked about a particular Christian, Cephas, and another particular set of famous early Jesus followers, the brothers of the Lord.
He's setting up particular subclasses. If brothers of the Lord there means all Christians, it just doesn't make sense in this list of particularly famous examples.
If the claim was all Christians can have wives travel with them, he could have just said, brothers of, you know, the brothers, everyone can do it.
But that's not what he says. He gives these particular case studies. And then you also, Galatians, he lists the people he met, and one of them is James, the brother of the Lord.
If that just means Christian here, we're going with the fictive kinship thing, that doesn't tell you anything, because the point is, what Christians did I meet?
What other Jesus followers did I meet? And he's answering that by giving you specific examples, and he calls James, the brother of the Lord.
But that is useful information, and this is, you know, there's a whole field of this, of pragmatics, greasy and pragmatics, named after a famous linguist, Greece.
And there's this rules of minimalism versus maximalism. That phrase is not worth interjecting. It doesn't do any work if it just means Christian.
For it to make sense, and for us to interpret it plausibly according to the normal ways we interpret language, it has to be adding some content.
And that content is that this is Jesus' brother.
And when we go look at other early Christian texts, even texts that Paul almost certainly didn't have access to, we find that everyone just knows.
That's how they understood it.
Yeah, Jesus had a brother named Jesus. That's how everyone interpreted it.
That's what the gospels clearly indicate.
Everyone has always read it that way, and there's other references to James as brother of the Lord, who aren't not reading Paul.
The most obvious one is Josephus.
Now, there's a big debate over one passage of Josephus, the testimony of Florianum.
One of my closest friends, Ken Olson, is the leading proponent of this being a forgery.
You know what Ken Olson doesn't say? You know what Tessa Rageak doesn't say?
The only Josephus scholars in the world who are questioning the testimony of Florianum.
They don't have good evidence that a second reference to Jesus is omitted.
There's this other passage that discusses James, this pious person who is killed in the temple.
Who is killed? It's complicated.
That calls James the brother of Jesus.
Josephus was in Jerusalem at this time.
Josephus knows the people who saw this.
Josephus might have known James himself.
That's totally possible. He's a contemporary.
And there is no manuscript evidence that this is interpolated.
The reasons we think the testimony of Florianum, this longer passage about Jesus from Josephus is interpolated,
is it makes Josephus sound like a Christian?
And so there's probably some interpolation there.
So real quick, because you know me, I'm horrible about this, but it's because I love it and it's exciting.
One thing these scholars say is either partial or full interpolation on the one.
Partial or full.
The other they're saying across the board, they're like, no, we don't see this as an interpolation.
It's only the mythicists that come in and say, hey, this is, well, there might be very few scholars that aren't mythicists.
And I've heard mythicists say, I only got it from them because they don't want to be the guys going, well, we have to create this information.
There's a lot of scholars they'll find that kind of fit their agenda.
But the other thing was Paul and Galatians talking to the James, James the brother of Jesus,
something to note, maybe an ask, and this gets into the theology, maybe what Paul's trying to do in Galatians.
You mentioned how Paul talks about 1 Corinthians.
He says, you know, my teachers on marriage are different than Jesus.
It seems like he's also set up a case on, I didn't learn anything from James like saying like, I didn't need his stuff.
Yes, that's the rhetorical context.
Okay.
Okay.
That's it.
And I know you got to keep on with the historical Jesus stuff.
Paul is having a fight over his apostolic credentials.
It's having a fight over whether or not he is teaching the gospel.
And one of the things he's saying is I got this directly from Jesus.
I didn't need the legitimation of James.
Now he says, I got it, but I didn't need it.
And that's his claim.
He says, I met these people, but you know, I was only there for a couple of days and then I left.
Oh, also I've met a couple of people always there.
You know, he's doing this whole like rhetorical thing where he's trying to say, I am not an apostle because James gave me a stamp of approval.
I don't need his approval.
That's right.
That's the context.
This isn't, I mean, the way...
I didn't learn anything at all from the other apostles.
That's right.
But it sounds that way when they say, I learned nothing.
It was like a direct revelation.
That's what mythicists will say.
Paul tells us that the traditions he has about Jesus are ones he received handed down.
They're passed on to him.
That people have known these things.
The famous 1 Corinthians 15 Creed of the resurrection accounts.
Like Paul acknowledges that he has received stories about Jesus from other people that other people know.
He is often, like I said, when he brings up the teachings of Jesus, he's often conceding this point to his opponents.
So, these are not things that Paul got as a special...
If you don't know the context, Derek and I, there are atheists, mythicists who will claim that Paul...
Everything Paul thinks to know about Jesus, he got as a special revelation.
And that is not what Paul is doing.
Paul notes that the teachings of Jesus are widespread, are handed down outside of him.
And he's claiming he gets his apostolic credentials.
He gets his authority from Jesus directly, not from these other apostles.
And this is a controversy we see throughout the letters of Paul that certain people come with letters of approval.
He says, I don't need those. I have you, Christians.
He is always trying to root his credentials as a person sent out by Jesus in the signs of the power of the Holy Spirit.
In its efficacy in bringing about the Gentiles in his own experience of the risen Lord.
So, that's just a misreading of.
And then the last thing to note is just the Gospels.
And this is complicated because the Gospels are written from a post-resurrection perspective.
The Gospels are...
Yeah, absolutely.
The Gospels are narratives, they're stories that are doing theological work.
Christians have always confessed to this about the Gospels.
But when you read the Gospel of Mark, and you read the hand-washing controversy,
Mark is interpreting this for his own context.
Mark is interpreting this for a post-Pauline, post-resurrection faith.
But you read that and you put that alongside what records we have for 1st century Judaism
and the conversations and the arguments people were having.
There's a famous Jewish scholar, Joseph Klausner, who has done this.
Joseph Klausner didn't actually like Jesus very much.
He's a Jewish scholar who said that Jesus was kind of a jerk, was a hypocrite, and he didn't like Jesus.
This is the thesis of his book. It's a fascinating read.
One of the things Klausner says is you read the conversations Jesus is having, the arguments he's having,
they all make sense as exactly the kinds of debates that were going on in 1st century Judaism.
There's kinds of debates that show up in the Mishnah, in other parts of the Talmud.
The kinds of debates that show up in other 2nd temple Jewish literature.
Debates over the significance of hand-washing.
Things like that, which Mark is interpreting for the resurrected Christian church,
for the church that believes in the resurrected Jesus.
But you can read these discussions of Jesus, and as Klausner argues,
and other people have noted this subsequently obviously,
these things fit perfectly into the kinds of debates we know Jews weren't having,
and Jews were having in the 1st century that aren't exactly meaningful to Mark.
So Mark reads these things, the controversy over the Son of Man and Sabbath keeping.
Matthew really paints a lot more though.
Absolutely.
You mentioned this too. You mentioned traditions they can't let go because it's part of the order.
Exactly.
They have to have it even though they don't like it.
The evangelists are wrestling with Jesus traditions in certain places.
The tradition about the baptism of Jesus and things like that.
And we see this in early Christian tradition.
The Gospel of the Nazarenes has Jesus say,
just for the record, I don't have to get baptized because I'm a sinner.
I'm doing this just as a model for you.
Spells it out.
This is something that the early Christians we know they wrestled with this stuff.
And yet the traditions, the Gospels are keeping this.
A great case is wrestling with Jesus' prophecy about the destruction and restoration of the temple.
This is something that Mark kind of depicts in Mark 13.
It puts on the lips of Jesus' accusers in Mark 14 and 15.
It says, this is the one who said these things.
Stephen's speech in the beginning of Acts says Jesus is known for this.
Gamaliel's speech in Acts says,
compares Jesus to other apocalyptic prophets who did very similar things
like prophesying the destruction of the walls of Jerusalem.
This is something the tradition knows.
People say about Jesus.
John 2 has Jesus say, I will destroy this temple and rebuild it in three days.
And he says, Jesus said this about his body.
That's of course the evangelist interpreting that.
So what you see here is there are these traditions that Mark, our very earliest Gospel,
our first story of Jesus gets these traditions about Jesus' teaching
and is wrestling with these things.
He has Mark Jesus kind of doing this in Mark 13.
Although it's complicated, there's this cosmological overlay.
Mark 13 seems to be partially fulfilled in the death and resurrection of Jesus himself.
The same eschatological language is used for describing the actual passion of Jesus.
The sky goes dark, all that stuff.
And puts some of the most explicit languages about Jesus rebuilding the temple
on the mouths of opponents.
My point is that Mark has traditions about Jesus,
the teachings of Jesus, as does John, that they are working with.
This is not something that happens when people are just making stuff up.
That's what I was going to say.
Occam's razor seems, and it seems more ad hoc,
to approach this acting like there's this somehow collected, highly theological views
about a non-existent person that anyone could technically do whatever with.
I want to give a little bit of credit to the skeptics that are thinking that way,
but I want to say why I think they do it, and you'll see what I'm saying.
When they see that something is interpolated,
or they find that Christians have fidgeted or fabricated things to try and fit their needs,
it becomes every nail turns gold.
Every nail says, hit me.
And it's natural for us humans to think,
well, if Christians are creating evidence to support their Jesus or their claims,
Josephus' claiming of the testimonial, whatever it might be,
or we could see interpolations within the Gospels or within the Epistles or whatever,
then they really nail that.
And they go, we can't trust anything here.
What if this whole thing is a conspiracy, so to speak,
and I'm not equating it, maybe some historicists want to equate Methodist to 9 and 11 conspiracy theories or this and this and that.
I'm not going to equate it to that because I've talked to a lot of them about this,
and their approach to it, it's the way they're interpreting a lot of this information,
and they're not dummies, but at the same time, I think hyperscepticism gets involved.
And that's something I've had, I was a Methodist happy year to a year ago,
like just in my thinking, and as I've been engaging real scholars,
I keep thinking myself, what makes the most sense?
And this is just an honest, like I'm just going to say it and you tell me what you think, ready?
Josephus and other historians account for actual Jews who were actually killed by actual Romans in actually the first century,
and I'm being funny when I said actually the last time, just to be my point,
is it seems more plausible that a Jew who shouldn't have been doing whatever he was doing according to the Romans
got on their nerves and they really killed this guy, they crucified him.
Paul says they crucified the Lord.
Now, even Methodists don't necessarily say that's an interpolation,
but what do you mean by crucified, I ask?
And when I ask them this, there's the whole like, as above so below or heavenly celestial,
and look, I know it's hard for me because I'm being honest when I say, look,
if there was more literature, like that said, look, there was something going on in the heavens,
as the picture in the Gospels reflect a euhemerized version of it,
then I would be like, okay, Methodism makes possible more sense to me,
but to me, what makes the most sense is there were real Jews getting killed by Romans and they were crucified.
We have archaeological evidence of this.
So I can't, you nor I can say 100 without, like we know with absolute
because history works on probabilities, but there's a better probability to me
that there was a historical guy, and that's my opinion.
Yep, history always works on probabilities, but this is not a close call in my opinion.
And on the last point, the crucified in the heavens thing,
go watch our non-canonical Bible,
go watch our non-canonical Bible study episode on the Ascension of Isaiah,
and we actually lay out the text of the Ascension of Isaiah,
which is the text that Mithises point to describing a crucifixion in the heavens,
how it's dependent on the Gospel of Matthew, how it's rewriting traditions about Isaiah,
and what it's actually doing, it's a fascinating piece of literature.
And to get the text to say what Mithises wanted to say, they have to conjectually amend it.
They have to edit the text without any manuscript evidence for this.
They have to rewrite the text to just pick out a certain part of it,
isolate it from the stuff that comes before,
and say just this bit is the stuff that we care about
to get it to describe a Jesus crucified in the heavens.
And there are people who are not interested in the New Testament,
who study the Ascension of Isaiah as a work of Second Temple Jewish Literature,
and none of them buy the reading of Richard Carrier and the Mithises.
Okay.
Richard's a friend of mine, I'm friends with everybody,
and I'd say this, like, I'm interested in what evidence there is for things,
and I'm going to continuously study this.
I really appreciate you giving your insight on this,
and I want to learn more about it.
I mean, obviously, I went from multiple extremes,
fundamentalist Christian to fundamentalist Mithises, so to speak,
to hold on, and I'm really inquiring this question with a real honest open mind,
and I really appreciate you.
That was also one of the things, before we get off this,
I'm thankful that you gave me the opportunity to interview you,
because if anyone goes and sees my credentials, so to speak,
as a YouTube channel, and they are historicists,
and they're academic in the vein that you are,
oftentimes it's not that they're...
I'm Mithises will say, they don't want to know the truth.
Like, I've heard some, and that sounds conspiracy theory-like.
Uh-huh.
Yeah, and not all are like this, but...
because we don't want to paint everybody the same color.
No, of course.
But I'm thankful that you gave me the chance,
and you said, okay, let me listen to this guy.
I'm truly into wanting to know,
and if something comes out of the woodworks that says,
look, here's better evidence to show Mithism,
I'm going to entertain that.
Sure.
However, I think that the big scholars out there
would also be entertaining it if it was some plausible.
Yeah, absolutely.
You should follow the evidence,
but you should also pay attention to how people who are experts in Greek
and have spent their lives reading first century biographies
and epistolography, how they read texts,
and I think America, the United States in particular,
is suffering from a lack of respect for expertise,
and I think it's something we can...
I think as rationalists, we should push back on.
I think Dr. Bowen said something like this the other day
about his dad running his own construction business,
and the new guy on the block comes in,
and he's like, this is how you should do it.
He's like, listen to the experts,
and then if you have an issue,
this is why I had the problem with the Israel,
and guys, I brought to your attention,
which we haven't really even got to dig into deep,
and it's something you're not interested in talking about.
Correct.
Because you're afraid they're right.
Because I don't know anything about it.
Yeah, you're not interested in going down that path maybe one day,
but the whole idea is once you listen to them,
if I have a problem, I'm going to address the scholars,
the experts in the field,
and I'm going to try and see if their hypothesis is wrong.
I'm not going to create my own and ignore all there is about it.
Because Dr. Josh Bowen has done the work
he actually knows what it looks like to develop expertise in something,
and so has a good respect for that.
Thank you, Ian.
Appreciate that.
Yeah, for sure.
I appreciate you, brother.
Ha, ha, ha.
