We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
Derek Lambert, your host.
Today, we're going to talk to some ex-Jahovahs witnesses.
I'm really, really interested in this conversation we're going to have today and I know you will
be too.
As we're going to talk to two leading ex-Jahovahs witnesses on YouTube who talk about their
experience and what it was like being inside the cult.
Yes, I use the term cult.
I don't mean it derogatorily.
I mean it as it is an organization that oftentimes divorces family members and loved ones who
may think differently.
There's really not a truth freedom of speech, freedom of thought in this movement.
And I'm going to go ahead and pop two of these people together.
Here they are and we have Lady C, ladies come first and JT, welcome to the show.
Thank you for having us.
Thank you for having us man, really appreciate it.
Thank you.
Yeah, not a lot of people have interviewed you and I feel very privileged and honored
to have you join me here on MythVision.
I've interviewed a few other ex-Jahovahs witnesses and your story really rang a bell.
My friend David from Australia also said you've got to talk to them.
They have a serious story.
And your husband and wife.
So that is a very interesting dynamic to say you guys made it out.
And we're going to get into some, I'm sure more of the emotional ends.
I can't wait to see what happens.
But first you guys have a YouTube channel.
And this is the ex-JW critical thinker or ex-JW.
Go down in the description guys.
You guys subscribe to the channel, go check it out.
What critical thinker?
What's going on with the title there?
Why did you title it that?
And I know Jehovah's Witnesses aren't told to do such a thing.
So is there something behind that?
Actually it is.
When we left, we were asking ourselves, what is it that made it possible for people to
be involved in a cult or a high-control group?
And one of the things that we did when we first left is we decided to go back to college.
And the first class that we decided we would take is a class in psychology.
Because we wanted to better understand how could good people, sincere people, well-meaning
people, and we often talk about this all the time, there are people within this organization
that if they were not Jehovah's Witnesses, they could literally run Fortune 500 companies.
So how do these people of all these different levels get involved?
And so we spent a lot of time with our professor.
In fact, our professor felt that we took the classes together and the professor just reached
a point where he's like, look, I've been teaching this class for years.
I have students who just come in this class, they want to get the credit and move on.
But you guys keep asking all these questions, I mean, what's up?
And so we told him and said, we belong to Jehovah's Witnesses.
And you can just see the liquid on his face like, oh my goodness.
And so he says, OK, I understand basically.
And so what he helped us to understand is that one of the problems that a witness has
is that part of the culture highly, highly discourages you when it comes to thinking critically.
Because when people start thinking critically, that means they're going to ask questions.
And when people start asking questions and you have a program that's not as tight as
you present it to be, the holes will show, the flaws will show.
And that's why on our website, we have the little statement that I prefer to have questions
I cannot answer than answers I cannot question.
And one of the most important things that a good Jehovah's Witness learns is you can
ask any question that you want to, you can ask any question you want to, but you better
not question the answer after you get it.
And so that changes the dynamics.
And so that was one of the things that we found that people were not doing.
We were not critical thinkers.
And that's what got us in and kept us in for many of us for decades.
Wow.
Lady C, would you like to add to that maybe?
Well, basically, I followed my husband because women, you know, when you're thinking about
questioning, I feel like the reason why I didn't question is because when you're married
to an individual that's one of Jehovah's Witnesses and he's an elder in a congregation, he is
the end of the line.
And so if he says this is what it is, then this is what it is, right?
And so the critical thinking, women don't even really think about critical critical thinking.
We just follow our husbands, you know, and so where you think things in the back of your
mind and you're thinking about different issues that come up, you may not always just share
that with other people, but you just know because this is Jehovah's way.
This is what you're supposed to do.
So you just told the line.
Yeah.
It's a very unfortunate, many denominations are very patriarchal where the man, you know,
the man, the man is, he's the head of the house.
And so the woman simply just feels in her role.
And this is how these stress in the Jehovah's Witness organization that as a man, the type
of wife you want is one who's submissive.
And if you want to be a wife, a good wife, you are submissive.
And just to give you just a simple little thought, just an example, Jehovah's Witnesses
in their publications, they make the point that if you have a husband, if you are a sister
and you're married to a brother who ain't too smart, he ain't too sharp, you know, he
might give the wrong answer as a wife, you don't correct that.
You don't make him look like he don't know what he's talking about.
And so you can have somebody who's saying something ignorant and they just keep on saying
stuff ignorant and it never gets corrected.
So your partner who's supposed to help you, you really don't want to say that.
The wife will just let you go because she knows it's not my place to correct him.
Another brother will correct him.
And so it creates this husband-wife relationship where you're not really a partner, you know,
she's just someone that stands beside you, that's all it's like.
But if a woman to go against their husbands is going against Jehovah's arrangements,
so now you're getting on the line.
And so of course, then people begin to look at it from the angle of how could I be blessed
by Jehovah if I'm not following in this program.
And even though you can look at something and say, hey, this don't seem right, you just
have to wait on Jehovah because that's the way they teach it.
You got to wait on Jehovah.
Yeah.
It's one of the coolest tricks in the world.
Everything that the witness does, when the watchtower wants you to do something, they
just sign God's name at the bottom.
Here you go.
And you look down at the bottom and it has God's name, so it's like, okay, I got to
do it.
And so that's what makes it work.
So let me ask you this.
From my understanding, you guys were in the religion for quite some time, obviously decades.
And JT, if I'm not mistaken, you served at Bethel in this in New York, the world headquarters,
if you will.
Lady C, did you also serve at Bethel?
And what got you involved in the religion, I guess you'd say?
You going to lead it?
He was asking about you.
Well, actually, well, he was asking a two-fold question, but no, I was not at Bethel, JT
was at Bethel.
But we met through mutual friends.
And I always tell people, I was a male order bride.
That's my running joke, is I was a male order bride because JT had met this couple that
was in my congregation, and then he went to visit them.
And the sister said, I got two brothers coming from Bethel for the assembly of the convention
this year.
And she said, and JT will just love you.
So that's why I say I was a male order bride because we never would have thought that we
would have hooked up just by meeting through them.
And so we corresponded.
We had a long distance relationship.
We corresponded.
And during that time, there was no unlimited phone calls.
You had to pay by the minute at the time.
I was at Bethel making $80 a month, so I couldn't afford a lot of phone bills.
And so we corresponded and we came up with this kind of ingenuous way of corresponding.
We used cassette tapes.
So she would record a letter to me, send me the tape, I will listen to it.
And then I would take the tape and record back over and send it back to her.
And one of the lessons I learned from this is really the difference between men and women.
She would take the tape I had sent her back and she would save it.
The tape she sent to me, I recorded over and sent it back to her.
So after we got married, she had all these tapes that she collected of me and talking
back to her.
And she was like, where are your tapes?
Oh, I recorded over and sent them back.
That is such a guy move.
Oh man.
Get that move, man.
Straight up, get that move.
Just get the tape over.
Get the tape over.
Get the tape over.
All right.
So you were working at Bethel.
Let me ask you this.
What was it like?
I mean, did you bump into some of the head honchos?
Have you met any of the top dogs in the organization?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
The governing body that pretty much accessible.
In fact, I used to live on the same floor as Fred Franz.
Fred Franz lived on the night floor of the what's called the 124 Columbia Heights building.
And I was kind of surprised.
I came home from work early one day.
And what they do at Bethel is after breakfast at eight o'clock, the housekeepers, which
are typically, you know, all the sisters, this type of work they let most of the sisters
do the housekeepers.
They open up all the doors to all the rooms, just like in a regular hotel.
You know what I mean?
You walk down the hall in the hotel.
You can see inside the rooms and stuff.
And so I came home early one day and Fred Franz's room was still open.
And so I asked the housekeeper, can I look in Freddy's room?
He says, come on down, come on down.
And so I didn't go in because the room is not that big.
It's a one room.
Literally one room.
It's not a room.
And I had none of them.
One room.
So it's like a dorm almost.
That's basically what it is.
And so I looked in Freddy's room and I was like, his room look worse than mine because
he had nothing in there.
I mean, just basic stuff, you know, basic stuff that people are giving him when he
traveled African artifacts and stuff from Australia.
And when you travel around the world, but see, Freddy was a single man.
And so when you looked in people's rooms, you could literally look in a room and see
he must be married.
He must be married because I remember in my room, man, the only thing we had in our room
on the wall was a calendar.
The day we, our vacation days and stuff like that.
My mom came up and said, y'all have no plants.
Y'all have no plants.
Single guys, man, you need a beanbag.
You're good to go.
But if you went by some of the couples rooms, no, they was very tastefully decorated.
So these leaders, these head honchos, are they kind of like, you know, how people admire
Jesus, for example, Christian really looks up to and they would do anything in the name
of Jesus, right?
Is it almost like that with these governing body figures?
Of course, I know they have rules.
If the governing body might go off the path or something, of course, you're not to follow
them stick to Jehovah's plan.
But is there a cult following of each body member?
Do you know if there's like, you know, that's an excellent question.
When I was at Bethel and when I was growing up in the organization, they made a purpose.
They intentionally made sure that you really didn't know who they were.
They were very, very low key.
The average Jehovah's Witness, when I was coming along, if you said, do you know what
the governing body looks like?
They would have absolutely.
I know people in Witness for 50 years and they have no idea what Henshel looked like.
They just had no idea what Grant Souter looked like because they were very, very low key.
This is one of the things that the organization specializes in.
They do basically the opposite of what other denominations do.
Therefore, this is what makes us different.
So they make it on a very low key level.
No fancy cars.
I had one of the governing.
I was in a congregation in New York City in a section of the city of New York
that's known as Hallow, the ghetto.
I invited one of the governing body to come out and give a talk at our hall.
He came out.
So they were very, very low key when I was coming along.
Today, today, the governing body are like rock stars.
And let me give you a perfect example that they have done that you have never seen
a governing body do back in the day.
There were governing bodies who were going to conventions around the world.
And witnesses would come up and say, will you sign my Bible?
Now, when I was coming along,
governing body would think of putting his name in God's book.
This new this new crop of governing by these boys are celebrities.
They are they are the younger crew, the older governing body members.
Many of them went to jail.
In fact, one of them went to prison.
Him and his wife, they sat in the concentration camp.
He would pull up his sleeve and show you his number still stamped on his arm.
So these guys, they came through the hard days of being a Jehovah's with.
The new governing body members, most of these guys have never been in jail.
Never been to prison.
In fact, most of the guys who are now governing body members,
they have not paid a light bill, gas bill, phone bill, water bill,
probably in 25, 30 years, because what happened is they became
what's in most cases known as circuit overseers.
Once you reach that level in the Jehovah's Witness world,
everything is paid for.
It's taken care of.
Witnesses, we would brag about our elders are not paid.
They have no salary like your pastor does.
The only thing that Jehovah's Witness do is they just change
what level you have to be on to be taken care of.
The pastoral duties of a circuit overseer is compensation, just like a pastor.
The watchtower just made a decision, move it up one level.
And once you leave from being just a regular elder to a circuit overseer,
you get house card, all your amenities, everything's taken care of,
just like a regular pastor in any other church.
So as I tell people, you know, we're not arguing about whether or not
your church compensates ministers at certain levels.
We just arguing about what the compensation package is.
That's why. Wow.
I got to ask Lady C, because you know how guys are, man, we will connect
and then we'll keep going.
But we got to let the girls come in.
I'm so glad that you're saying this, because while he was in Bethel,
you guys were active members.
You guys were really in the church.
Like you really had a devotion and truth following.
You were in it.
I like to call it drinking the Kool-Aid.
I don't mean it in a bad way, but, you know, we're just partying it up.
We're in the thing.
And, of course, you left J.T., you left the Bethel church, and we don't know.
I want to get to why, but I want to ask Lady C, what was that like?
What was it like knowing he worked at Bethel?
Were you bragging like, yeah, my man's working at the headquarters
and all the other Jehovah's Witnesses were like, girl, you crazy.
You know what I'm saying?
Now, that is an interesting question.
Now, let me say this, I will say this, OK?
See, I really didn't know nothing about Bethelites.
OK, but I will say this, I had some girlfriends I had just met
and they were all into it, like you're saying, like, oh, let's go to Bethel.
There's some brothers up there because one of my roommates
and they're still heavily in the organization, her brother was at Bethel.
And I didn't know the whole full scope of Bethel just yet, right?
Because they didn't really get into it that much.
They were just saying, we're going to Bethel.
We're going to meet with her brother, his wife and this and things like that.
But I didn't know they had all those brothers up there,
not the way they were going at it, you know?
So bottom line was my mom was not impressed with anyone.
She didn't care who you were.
She was not impressed with personalities.
So mom did not raise me to be in awe of anyone.
It was like, I'm just here and this brother or whatever.
In fact, she didn't even want me to marry JT
because she was like, I don't know why you want to get involved with him.
He said, because he ain't got no money.
She said, these brothers are up here at Bethel.
They don't want to work because if they wanted to work,
they would be out out of that out of that place working the job.
That was what my mom said.
She's I don't know why you want to marry him.
But she came to she she grew to love him, you know?
But anyway, anyway, bottom line is so no, I was not impressed.
But, you know, when I would meet people, you know, that knew him,
I had met this sister at a function.
And you know how you try to connect with people because you like,
oh, you know that person, I know that person.
And you think you're going to get an instant connection.
That didn't happen.
She was not happy with the fact that I was dating JT, courting JT or whatever,
because I later found out that she wanted one of her girlfriends to be courting JT.
So that was like, I was like, oh, my God.
So then I started shutting my mouth.
I was like, I ain't saying nobody else because I didn't realize how crazy people were.
And I'm going to tell you something.
I think that was part of my beginning to wake up moment with this religion.
Looking at how people were treating you once they found out, you know,
that you were dating a Bethelite, you know,
it's almost like reality hits from basic stuff.
It's not always, oh, I discovered a doctrine is off or there's inaccurate information.
Sometimes it's an emotional thing that will trigger us to realize like, hold on,
the words in this book and the organization aren't lining up,
at least the claims that it's supposed to line up and it's not lining up.
And enough of that beating you up will make you kind of start to awake.
You start cracking your eyes open.
Let me ask you another thing.
What got both of you into the religion?
Were you born into it?
Well, I always tell people that my family bought this religion on their doorstep
because my grandfather, probably back in the 40s,
when this is not going to door, coming in, studying with my grandfather,
he did not get all in it at first.
But one of the things that he did do is he came home one day,
my mom said, and throughout the Christmas tree,
because once he said he realized that Christmas was pagan,
he said, my family will not be doing this.
And it took him, what, another 50 years before he became a baptized Jehovah's
Witness before he died, but check this out.
This is why when Jehovah's Witnesses knock on your door,
it is very important that you don't take them up on that free home Bible study
because once you crack that door open and once you let them in,
they begin to indoctrinate and poison your mind with their teachings.
And that's what happened to my family.
Now, they may not take the religion right away,
but they remember those things that they're told.
So what happened in my family was my mother lost her son, my brother.
He was walking across the street.
He got hit by a car, killed instantly.
Mom remembered the Paradise Earth thing, the resurrection, all of that.
And that's what started her down that path because she got their potion
or their poison when she was a kid.
Right. She got the Kool-Aid.
She got a little sip of the Kool-Aid, you know, some years prior.
But then when she needed to open up that door to walk through their promises,
then that's when she ended up getting involved with this religion.
So from about the age of five years old, I was a Jehovah's Witness.
Wow. And the same with myself.
My mom was introduced to him when he was very small.
And this is why we tell people, very importantly,
we've talked to people who have they'll leave and they'll let their wife
or their husband still take their children to the meeting.
That is very, very dangerous because what happens is those children
are being they're having an implant in their head.
We have talked to so many people who's child.
These sometimes are people who are not even Jehovah's Witness.
They're just a worldly person and the child will come home from the meeting
crying and the father will say, well, what's wrong?
You're going to die.
I'm OK. I'm in good health at the Kingdom Hall.
They say you're going to die if you don't come to the Kingdom Hall.
And so you got a little six, seven year old boy thing.
Your daddy going to die because you don't go to the Kingdom Hall.
And that's because this stuff was planted in your head.
And so that's what makes it so dangerous.
One of the things that you were taught when you're part of this group,
your parents will tell you if you ever leave, you have a problem.
Come back to the Kingdom Hall is what it is.
And so you will talk to people who are like 35, 40 years old.
They went to the Kingdom Hall when it was 19 years old,
but they remember their parents telling them if you have any problems,
back to the Kingdom Hall.
And so it becomes just a natural reflex.
I mean, we used to see when I was an elder and we was living
out in the country, we would see people come back after 20 years.
I'm back. I need to get myself together.
Are you going to talk to people who may have grown up around and they'll say,
you know, I'm doing a lot of things right.
But when I decided to get myself together, I'm going back to the Kingdom Hall.
So doing this period of time, doing this period of time, though,
they never take the time to examine what they were being taught.
And so that they just literally pick up right where they stopped off,
right where they stopped off.
So and so so for us, we went through the whole routine,
the kids, the Christmas, the holidays, being poke fun at,
sent down to the principal's office, down to the library.
Every morning, you got to stay outside the class when they have the the salute
the flag and you got to come back in all embarrassed.
We did all of that.
We did all of that.
And of course, as you move up into the higher grades,
then you run into the college thing.
We turned down colleges.
I mean, the story of witnesses turned on college managers.
It's just it's just a stand.
It's just a standard thing.
Yeah, they're trying to.
It was really rough because my dad was in the military,
so he was not a Jehovah's Witness because my parents were married before
or my mom got baptized.
But here's the thing.
Can you imagine being on a military base?
You're a Jehovah's Witness kid and you're not celebrating.
I mean, and you're not standing for the Pledge of Allegiance and you've got
an admiral or I mean, not I don't know what this man was.
He was an officer or a lieutenant.
He retired and he was my teacher.
And he told me, he said, I'm going to tell you right now.
He said, you will not sit in my class and not stand for the Pledge.
So he made me leave out of the classroom and stand outside
while the Pledge of Allegiance was going on.
And then afterwards, I could return back to his class.
That was humiliating.
So you're seven, eight years old, man.
Thirty 30 students in your class, they laugh at you.
And this is what you go through every day.
So after a while, for a lot of witness kids,
they say to themselves, when I get a chance to get away from this,
I'm going to win.
And so when they turn 16, 17 years old, they both.
And unfortunately, when they both many times,
they become involved in things that actually becomes a poster child for the
witnesses or you become like the rest of us.
You begin to look at all your classmates and you're like, you know what?
That's all right. You go ahead and laugh.
When Jehovah comes, he's going to destroy all of y'all.
And so that becomes your defense mechanism, because no, ma'am, serious.
That becomes you, you, you, you look at your classmates and you realize
they will be destroyed by your and your parents tell you, don't worry about it,
baby, Jehovah has a day for them.
And you go back to school like laugh if you want to.
I got something for you. My God, I got something for you.
And so that because and so now you go from the third, fourth, fifth grade
all the way to high school, looking at your classmates as a dead meat walking,
dead man walking.
That's what you look at.
I have to say the reason I giggled and why is because I relate.
OK, I came out of a home church cult.
Now, it's not the same organization,
but I had bounced between Christian denominations throughout my life.
Of course, I'm no longer involved at all, right?
That's not the topic of this show.
But regardless, the point is, is I came out of what I like to call the cult of
Christianity and the same mentality over and over.
You have said the same things I thought as a Christian from raise a child
in the way they should go, they'll always return back if they fall, you know,
like, hey, I'm going to go back to the organization when I get right.
Well, the same thing, you know, people teach that in Christianity and all of these
ideas, but I thought the same thing.
I was mocked in school, I was reading my Bible at lunch.
Everybody's like, wait till you're older.
Like, you know, you're going to die soon and worry about religion.
What are you doing at this age?
And I'm like, what do you mean like now matters?
And that psychological stuff that you're describing here is horrible.
Your view, your outlook of humanity and not being OK with people who have
different thoughts and different things that they they hold to.
Like it what you were raised with is the truth.
And so I got to ask that moment that the TTA TT, the truth about the truth.
When that hits you, when you woke up, were you in Bethel?
How did you leave Bethel first before?
I guess if you're still in the organization, did you leave on good
terms because you got married?
Like what happened?
But then I want to I want to find out when those scales fell from your
eyes, so to speak, and what happened?
Well, actually, I was single at Bethel and I decided we got engaged and
you just can't bring your wife to Bethel.
She has to go through a review process to the personnel committee
and all this kind of stuff.
During the time that I was engaged to get married, that was the height
of the watchtowers building, building phase.
It was called construction time.
They were actually inviting regular Jehovah's Witness men and women to
come in and serve for one to two weeks as a Bethelite.
And and so as a result, they were taking up all the rooms, all the
rooms were being taken up.
So if you wanted to get married, there was oftentimes not enough rooms
for a couple.
And so our application to come to Bethel was turned down.
But a lot of people were getting turned up because there was just no
room. It was it was it was building the 360, the Stanley Theater, all
the major projects they were building at that time.
Even when the even when the governing body son, Judith Ben Schroeder,
him and his wife applaud, they got turned down.
Of course, of course, his wife is rich, so it don't really matter.
We leave up, you know, they're filthy rich.
Appearance off.
And so a lot of guys got turned down.
So we left and came down to the D.C. area.
We got into a congregation down here, a very, very good congregation,
organizationally speaking.
We had at all times, we had about 45 elders who are all Bethelites.
So we had a lot of former Bethelites in this hall.
And it was here where we ran into a lot of problems.
This congregation man had 40 single women, 25 to 40, 25 to 40 men
all ready to get married.
So we walked into this kingdom hall.
I was an elder at 27.
So a lot of the sisters who were Kathleen's
age, my wife's age and everything, they they had often looked at elders as,
you know, the father figure, brother Johnson, he's 87 years old.
He's like a father.
But they're looking at a guy who's the same age they are.
And there's in the potential there, if I don't, if I might add,
and you guys may be open about talking about this stuff.
I've made plenty of mistakes in my past, I must admit, and I'm a married man.
I've been married for 15 years.
But my wife, I'm going to tell you, this is real talk.
She watches my social media.
Like she she knows women enough to know, like nice try, girl.
Yeah, I know what you're about.
You know what I'm saying?
So I can only imagine you're a stud.
You know, you can tell the story.
Yeah, go ahead.
I'd love to hear it if you don't mind for me.
It was like, um, um, you could I have a sixth sense.
And so for me, for a lot of people on the surface, it was like they're
being nice to me because of him.
And then you would have sisters that would get together and have
get togethers, but they would exclude you.
And it would be like this.
One sister was like, oh, you're younger than us.
So you, we can't have you, you, you're, you know, you're not in our
group because you're too young.
And I'm thinking, whatever happened to David and Jonathan, remember how
the age difference in the Bible?
And so, um, then I'm thinking, okay, so I, I just didn't connect with them.
You know, there was single, it was just single sisters.
And the other issue that we had was because we were so busy, like we both
worked full-time jobs and we actually didn't have a lot of time to socialize
because JT was busy with the congregation working full-time job and all of that.
So, you know, but the thing is it was really interesting how we had all these
women, but we didn't have much association with them.
I didn't, I didn't get with those sisters that much.
And so I always got, I always hung out with the people that were not in my
congregation, you know, or people in my job that I knew that were witnesses, you
know, I don't really have any, um, in our, um, congregation, let me give you
this one experience, uh, JT had met this couple when he was at Bethel.
We were visiting my hometown in Michigan.
We went to go visit them and, um, we were getting ready to eat dinner and I'm
getting ready to go sit next to JT and the wife says, why are you sitting here?
I was going to put my daughter next to him.
You know, so it's like, this almost like a six person table, but then you're
going to say, I'm going to put my daughter next to JT.
It's like, why?
Um, and one of my congregations that, um, cause I lived in different
congregations when I met him, another congregation I was at, the single
sisters were there, JT came to visit and then the word came back to us, to my
family, that JT would make a good husband for this sister over here.
So it's like, I'm dating him.
But so here, if, why, if I'm dating him, how do you, how do you say that he
would make a good, a good husband for her?
You know, so, so I did see that kind of stuff or they, or they made you feel
like you were less of a person in his presence.
And so when you ask, when you ask the question, did people follow people?
Did they, when you asked that question about the governing body, you know,
did, did you like follow them and all that, I feel like women in the
organization looked at brothers, like they were Jesus on the rock in some cases,
you know, because I felt like, especially if he came from Bethel, I felt
like they would be like trying to worship the main, you know.
And so it was, the sisters in the congregation can be very challenging
because he would have a whole different experience than me, you know, in terms
of people don't want you to, like, if you're a single sister in the congregation
and you're attractive and there's a group of sisters that's going to go
somewhere, they might not want to invite you because they may feel that the
brothers that you meet may be attracted to her.
And so, I mean, you got to, you get a lot of that going on, you know, so, I mean.
But she, she, she, she is right.
In fact, that was one of the reasons why I, I, I am marrying her because
being, being at Bethel in the, in the Jehovah's Witness organization, that
is the Jehovah's Witness version of Yale and Harvard.
That is the Jehovah's Witness version of being in the NBA, in FL.
Okay.
So you get these groupies.
I mean, there's, when I was at Bethel, man, you, on the weekend, it
would be nothing to walk into the lobby and it'd be like 20, 30, 40 sisters in
the lobby.
They had to see somebody, you know, they're hoping to, and because
what happened is, cause it happened to me as well.
I'm from North Carolina.
So I'm at Bethel.
So sisters back home, not that I'm interested in them, sisters back home,
you were their connection to Bethel.
So they would say, look, we want to come up and visit and see the city.
And so what you would do, you say, well, how many y'all coming up?
It's going to be eight of us.
So then you get a call of eight of your boys, cause you can't walk around
New York City with eight women, you know, coming to your boys and say,
what y'all doing this weekend?
I got some sisters come from North Carolina.
I'm free with that.
And we get to get them down central park and stuff.
And so all of a sudden you now get to get the guys together.
And of course you, the guys always volunteer.
They all volunteer.
Yeah.
And so this, so sisters would always be coming in.
Sisters from Chicago, LA, overseas.
And one of the guys on your job or whatever said, man, JT, what you
do this weekend?
Matt got some friends coming in.
You want to hang with us?
Cause they needed help.
You know, you need somebody to be able to talk.
You go out, you know, so everybody has somebody to come and say, you know.
Um, and so they were always there.
But see my wife, she was like, please.
Yeah.
I was like, please.
Not impressed.
Yeah.
Not impressed.
Like, but you know what?
Remember when I, okay.
So I talked about my, um, these are my roommates.
Oh yeah.
Oh, now the girls, I told you about that they're the one of their brothers was at
Bethel and they would go up to Bethel.
Well, I ended up ruining with them was we went to go start with what we call the
neatest grade to a congregation in another, another area.
So they started off on this track of meeting Bethel brothers.
And when I went to go live with them and we went to go move to Maryland to
go serve with the neatest grave, I ended up with the first Bethel brother from
that group, but the other girl hurt.
She had already gotten married and she was, she was gone.
So I was taking her place, but they were jealous.
And so her mother, the one, the one sister, her mother was visiting and they
were talking about me getting married.
And so then her mother to kind of like downplay it and to make me look like I'm
just, you know, um, I'm telling, I am, I'm going to tell them here.
She said, Oh, marriage is not no big deal because people just, the reason why
people get married is cause they're, um, they're burning with passion.
Lusty after a man.
And so she tried to make it because her daughter hadn't found somebody yet.
She wanted to put this, she wanted to cast this, cast me in a bad light.
And so there was this other pioneer couple that was over to our house at the time.
And the, and the brother said, well, I must have been flaming with passion.
Then he goes, cause I know I wanted to get married.
But she said that to make me feel low because her daughter had not found a
Bethel light and she had been going to Bethel for five or six years.
And then here I come out.
I didn't even meet him at Bethel.
I did not meet him at Bethel.
I met him.
I was minding my business and I got a phone call and somebody said, these
brothers are over here and I want you to meet them.
And they had to beg me to go, you know, but the bottom line is they were jealous of
me and her mother said, if you get married, it's because you're in flame with passion.
And Jehovah's witnesses don't want to be accused of being flamed with,
in flame with passion.
They're using the Bible to, they're using it for their own, like it's funny
cause Paul does talk about that kind of stuff.
But you know, like, it's like, let me go hijack a verse to use it as a hammer.
Like, what are you doing?
Let me ask you guys another good question.
Cause this is really good news to bring in some really good news for the first
time in 42 years, you know where I'm headed with this.
There's a decline.
In fact, the Jehovah's Witnesses have put in like 1.6 billion hours of proselytizing,
if you will, preaching, pioneering, if you will, getting out there, trying to Bible
study and get people to grow the Jehovah's Witness organization.
And they, they recorded a, a negative.
I mean, whoa, like, can you guys comment on that?
And what would a person in the organization be thinking?
Are they going to spin it and make it sound like we know the end is near?
And this is a sign because, you know, find a way to manipulate the fact that
they're losing members and birth rate on the globe is 1.1%.
So you should be increasing if anything, but they're not.
So what, do you have any comments on this?
Yeah, that's a very good question.
You want to tell your thoughts on them to honest, you're talking about the service
Yes, this is your video on this, by the way.
And everyone can go down in the description and watch the video because this is powerful.
I mean, how's God Jehovah, if you will, don't use the word God or don't use,
you got to use the word Jehovah because they won't know who you're talking about.
If you don't, OK, how is this organization really ruled by God?
And yet it is decreasing in membership.
OK, very, very good question.
What you refer into is what's called the annual service report.
We do the video on it and I think it's important to understand how the watchtower
spends it and how we as former witnesses would look at it.
It's kind of almost a given because of the COVID situation
that their numbers would be a little down.
In fact, that is exactly how a good speaker would spend it.
He would spend it.
Well, brothers, we expected the numbers to be down.
And what happens is sometimes in the former Jehovah's Witness community,
we will see things and we will say, got you, got you.
This is it.
But for for a faithful Jehovah's Witness man, it don't even phase them.
It don't even make them flinch because the organization will explain to them.
You know, the numbers are down.
That's what we expected, but we were all home.
We couldn't get out.
So of course, no, it's going to be down.
So when you do, yeah, when you talk to them, we notice y'all numbers are down.
They would play it just like that.
And so what will be interesting, though, is what how the society responded.
What they did, they get rid of all the requirement rules.
And so when you get rid of all the requirement rules,
that means your numbers will go up.
So it's going to be very interesting to see what happens next year
because it's like we mentioned in one of our videos.
It's like a school where you have the ninety three to a hundred
for all the eight students, then the school drops the score down to 70.
Can you imagine how many kids going to be on the eight on the A roll next year
if you drop it to 70 and it's going to get rid of all the our requirement?
All you got to do is just say something to anybody about God and you get counted.
No, the requirements will go down, wouldn't it?
No, the requirements went down, but the numbers will go up.
OK. Because see, before you had to have at least one hour
to be counted on that list.
Once you get rid of the one hour and anybody can be counted now.
And so you give this artificial.
And so for the witness, they'll say, well, look, the brothers are increasing.
But see what we do.
Oh, I see what you're saying, because it's too it's too far.
It's too far. What he's talking about is the number of people reporting.
But what I'm referring to is if you get rid of the our requirement,
the numbers will go down.
Oh, they will. The numbers of how much they're reporting will go down.
But the number of people that's reporting will go up.
Oh, yeah, the numbers are like, yeah, the numbers will go down.
Because if I got to just say, you know, hey,
God's name is Jehovah and I could be counted as a Jehovah's witness to say
that anybody could do that.
That's and that's the whole point.
When I was an elder, one of my responsibility was to take the time
and you would call up a witness and say, do you have any time?
And the person will say, well, I just spoke to the to the post office man
for a couple of minutes.
Well, I'm sorry, sister, we can't count you this month.
We'll see now when she says that I got the count.
I can count her now. So you own the list, girl.
I wonder if they're going to like break down the requirements even further
because I remember when I've had Jehovah's Witnesses,
I live in North Carolina, Fayetteville, North Carolina right now.
And where are you located?
I'm up on the side of Rocky Mountain.
OK, so I'll definitely make a trip for sure.
I'll bring my camera gear and we'll definitely do some cool interviewing.
I would love to do.
Where's my family? My family is down.
Where's one from my family?
I'm in the D.C. area now.
Oh, you guys. OK, OK, OK.
Well, maybe when you come, yeah, we used to go to the
Cumberland County Memorial Auditorium.
OK, there's a lot of Jehovah's Witnesses here, by the way.
I was with the Circuit of Symmonds.
Yeah, they came. They came to my house and I remember one lady,
sweetheart, you know, but she just came to my door and I said,
I was a Christian at the time.
And I said, you know, yeah, God, I'd love to talk about God.
She was no Jehovah.
And I said, Jehovah, I mean, yeah, that's like another name for God.
And she said, no, no, no, God's name is Jehovah, right?
So I said, God's name is Jehovah.
I bet you they would count me next year.
They're going to count me as a Jehovah's Witness,
probably for just saying that to make sure their numbers are good,
you know, because that's a problem.
They put 1.6 billion hours, they claim, into this COVID or not.
You I don't know a company on planet Earth
that would look at the report and say 1.6 billion hours
into an organization and we declined.
Declined, that's hard to wash away.
It's becoming harder now to get.
In fact, most of them, in fact, I remember,
I remember the first time I saw this happen, someone contacted us
and I was like, oh, my goodness, typically at the circuit assemblies
and the summer conventions, especially the circuit assembly,
somebody always gets baptized, even if it's just somebody's kids.
They were having baptismal talks
and there was nobody getting baptized.
So in six months, they typically have a circuit assembly every six months.
In six months, all the knocking on doors that the witnesses had done
in that particular area produced absolutely nobody
to get baptized as a Christian.
They're probably going to start spinning the doctrine out.
Ladies and gentlemen, we need you to be fruitful and multiply.
Y'all better start having babies because that's I mean,
that's probably the next step in if they can't get people out there.
But so much information spreading, guys.
I'm so glad that you guys exist, that people can watch your material
and learn and realize I'm not going into this dangerous situation.
And I don't mean dangerous like the Scientologists, so to speak.
I mean, it can be, especially with family relations on that level.
I'm sure you heard of how the Scientology Church does things,
but but it's still dangerous in many ways, psychologically.
So I have to ask, this has been something I think we avoided on accident in this.
You're no longer a Jehovah's Witness.
What happened, guys?
What happened?
Because I know something it's got to be life changing,
like drastic moment or or a gradual.
A lot of times the people I've interviewed like Cliff Henderson,
he goes by fifth, our buddy Lloyd Evans, you know, these people,
they say it was a gradual thing.
Like you mentioned, Lady C, you said, that moment,
I realized how they treat people.
It started to wake me up.
Did the same thing happen for you, JT?
And can you take me through the process of how you went from a leadership role?
You know, you're somebody with power, according to the Jehovah's Witnesses.
And now you're no longer one at all.
What happened?
For us, especially for myself,
I've always been an organization man.
When you're at Bethel, that's what you're taught.
They don't stress the fruit of the spirit.
Love, joy, peace.
That's not what makes you move up in this organization.
We refer to it as being used by Jehovah.
OK, if you want to be used by Jehovah, which which translates moving up,
then you have to be a good organization man.
You need no organizational policies, directives, SOPs.
That's what makes you good.
And so I have a mentor that taught me that.
So I was very much involved in organizations.
So you see a lot of things on the other side.
But one of the things as a witness, you're always in every witness is taught this.
You dismiss it by saying, brothers, imperfect.
Jehovah will take care of it.
When you get in the new system, you'll be a perfect man.
So you're able to dismiss the imperfections of individuals.
And we don't give that credit.
We don't grant that to people in other churches.
They just wicked.
They just wicked.
But. But in the organization, you always allow to make excuses for what?
And that's why people excuse the governing body.
But the brothers imperfect.
What do you expect?
And so and that's what they tell you.
And so that is part of the culture.
You excuse the mistakes.
But now we will hold the mistakes against you and this fellowship.
I mean, it's crazy.
It's a crazy system.
But we'll quickly excuse the mistakes if it's organizational and related.
And so for me, it was doctrines.
There was a doctrine is known as the generation of 1914 will not die.
The watchtower had a magazine.
It was the May 15th, 1984 watchtower on the cover of this magazine.
Anybody can look it up.
There is a picture of all of these older white brothers and sisters.
They're all Bethelites, all Bethelites.
In fact, I knew almost every single one because you see them down the hall.
And we often mention that you see people on at Bethel.
They use the people for the pictures in the magazines.
And when the magazine comes, China saw in the magazine,
maybe looking good, looking good, looking good.
And so you knew people.
And so you would just congratulate, you know, glad to congratulate them
getting on the magazine.
So all these, they're like 89 years old, right?
And the article states that the people from this generation will not die.
I used to use it in a public talk I gave all over the country when I travel
and go like now about the Catholic.
I mean, my wife's place, the brothers give you talks and stuff.
This was one of my favorite talks.
And I used to tell people.
It is a good feeling to know that I will never die.
Now, some of you might be saying, well, how can you be so confident?
How can you be so arrogant to make such a statement?
And I would literally hold this magazine up and say,
because according to the faithful and the street slave, God's channel,
the generation of 1914 will not die before this system comes to an end.
That's why we can have confidence, brothers.
Jehovah is leading the slave.
And so I get the magazine one day because somebody called me up, man,
you see the new magazine, I get the new I go downstairs and get the new
magazine, open it up and I'm reading it and I change the teaching, man.
Oh, wow, man.
And so I told my wife, I said, I told her, I see, you know what?
They don't know what they talking about.
But, you know, what's interesting, though, because of what he said,
the things that led up to that, there was a lot of stuff accumulation
happening in our life.
We we got computers.
Yeah, we had issues with.
We saw things that was taking place behind the scenes with the brothers.
So it's not like you wake up one day, get a magazine and you wake up like,
oh, let's get out of here.
It's there was a lot of cracks in the foundation along the way.
You know, we had a defective elder who that's a whole nother story.
Right.
But, you know, it was a whole lot of stuff.
In fact, we asked people when the question that we used to ask people a
lot of times is.
Did you ever at any point question.
And practically every person to the man to the woman, they will say yes.
And then we asked the second question, what happened?
Well, the organization teaches you to push it to the back of your mind.
Non-credible, you put it on the back burner.
But after a period of time, the accumulation, like our buddy, he said,
his dad just realized something ain't right here.
And that's kind of where we are right now.
And that's one of the reasons why shows like yours, like ours and all the other
people who are expressing what they experienced was is very dangerous to a cult.
The most powerful thing a cult can have is controlling the flow of information.
We laugh about this all the time.
That's why I don't want you asking a question.
That's why they're getting rid of old books and stuff.
They don't want you to be able to access information.
We're all consumers, all of us, we're consumers of information, facts.
We just consume everything that's in life.
The problem is you're either a good consumer or a bad consumer based on the
availability of information.
If you knew that another car dealership was selling a car for $5,000 cheaper,
would you have bought the one that you did?
No.
But if you didn't know about it, then you had to buy the one and paid extra
$5,000.
So the same in this organization, we tell people, I tell people all the time,
you know, and we talk about this, a witness knocks on a person's door and
they basically ask a very simple question, very simple.
Sir, Madam, are you willing to examine your faith, even if it means you might
find out something that you don't like to know?
That's all we're asking people when we knock on their doors.
Yet no Jehovah's Witness could do that.
On their own faith, right?
Because they start with their right and that's the thing.
They can't look in the mirror, but you know, oh, go ahead.
Go ahead.
I apologize.
No, I was going to say, yes, that's true.
And see, here's the situation.
When we were coming along and getting this computer after we, you know,
got married and stuff, what we discovered was, um, you go to the internet and you
don't know what to type in the search engine.
So as a Jehovah's Witness, they're always what you've said a couple of times
about Jehovah, you said they said God's name is Jehovah.
So what do you think a Jehovah's Witness is going to type in a search engine?
When they get their computer, they've been told about Jehovah, Jehovah, Jehovah.
They're not going to type Jesus because they're told to look at Jehovah, right?
So that's what I did.
I typed Jehovah in that search engine and you saw all of the apostate sites that
came flooding into my screen.
And I was like, whoa, there was women's issues.
I love that one.
The women, the extra was when this women was talking.
They had all these experiences.
And I was like, see, look at what they're saying here.
This is true.
This is true.
And I would take that information to JT.
We would talk about it together and kind of compare notes.
And then JT ended up on this bulletin board and he goes up there and he's
trying to defend the society.
And he's like, oh, this is wrong.
That's wrong.
And they're going back and forth, back and forth.
And then the guy finally challenges JT.
Kid crisis of conscience.
And that's what really opened his world.
I didn't even know he was getting his, I don't know if you were scared or what,
but scared to death.
You can't trust nobody, man.
I didn't know what this crisis of conscience was, but I think he must have
already bought it, read it and cried for two weeks before I found out about it.
You know, but that's what, I mean, so it's that talking to people, breaking
down the barriers, not letting people say that I'm not going to read that.
I'm not going to get that out of my face.
We didn't do that.
We allowed all of that information to come flooding in our search engine on our,
in our web browser.
And I was reading, I might not have read the latest Watchtower in the Wake on
regularly, but I was on there reading those apostate sites.
You know, it's like a psychologically speaking, when you're driving down the
road and you see someone's parked on the side of the road and nothing's going on,
you just keep driving 45 miles an hour and a 45 mile an hour zone.
But when you see sirens and you see an ambulance and you see a car on the side
of the road, you see a problem, everyone slows down to 15 miles an hour and looks.
That is, it's a good thing that you saw that because you needed to see an ambulance.
So you needed to see, there's a problem here and it caught your attention,
which allowed you curiosity.
And there's that fear of stepping into the unknown, especially when you're
told your whole life, outer darkness or this or that or whatever it might be.
You know, some terrifying, horrific consequences that can come from it.
You're going to get, uh, you're going to be part of the apocalypse and it's
going to be on you, uh, you know, all those things.
I thought the same thing about the rapture when I was a younger Christian and I
must admit, like for me, the critical thinking, I took the axe to the root of the tree.
So for me, you know, everybody does something different.
I know Jehovah's Witnesses that leave the Jehovah's Witness organization and
get into a Christian fellowship.
For me, I was that Christian fellowship and I left the Christian fellowship and
went to the root and I saw words of Jesus and the apostle Paul and others saying,
it's about to happen, the apocalypse, the end, these things.
So I was left with a crisis of a dilemma for me.
And I thought to myself, I said, okay, he either came back and it all
happened, or he's no different than all the other apocalyptic preachers in the
world who said it's about to happen, but it didn't.
And for me, I've come to some conclusions, which led me out of it.
And it was eschatology, the study of end times, the study of last things.
So I think we men have that similar like, hold on, man, you said it was about to
happen.
Now you're not even talking about it like it is about to happen.
But then now you're saying, and I heard recently, they're coming back with this
like, yo, it's about to happen sometime soon again.
I mean, make your mind up.
You know, so, you know what, that's why more guys are leaving and they're
leaving their wives.
I mean, I, we can't tell you how many people we talked to that they email us
and they're like, how do I get my wife to wake up to now them and their wives
are getting divorced?
It's like they tried to work it out.
They tried to make it the wives have taken the kids demonize the kids against
the fathers.
It's a hot mess.
It's, it's, it's pretty good because you gotta remember, I don't know how
familiar you are with, with the teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses on, on separation
and divorce.
But one of the things that the watchtower allows a person to do is to leave
their mate if they are in what is known as absolute spiritual endangerment.
If staying with this man or this woman is going to damage your spirituality,
then you got to write the leaves sister and we will support you brother.
If you leave that woman, if you leave that man.
And so as a result of that, when a spouse tells the elders, my husband is
getting into that apostate stuff, they will let her know down the road.
As they, as if they, once they talk to him and they see they can't pull him
back, they'll let her know, you know, sister, the society, the branch says,
you know, if you find yourself in spiritual endangerment, if you, if you
feel you that sister, you can go ahead and leave.
And so, and so these, and so while, and this is the catch 22, we're talking
to the men or the women who've left.
We talked to both and we let them know you need to understand.
This has been the catch 22 in this organization, man.
When a person leaves this organization, they had nobody to talk to.
Nobody, no, I have the, I tomorrow all the time, I have mad respect, mad
respect for the witnesses who left in 76 after 75 income about when those
guys left, man, they had no internet, nobody.
And we have met people who left during that time.
And they'll tell you, man, I thought I was crazy, man.
I was all here by myself, nobody else.
Let's see the internet has been a game changer.
When people jump on this internet and they see they want to do the same thing.
We have people from Africa, from Ireland, from Australia, people all around the
world, who we don't know, ain't never seen, talked to.
Then I like, and yet when they hear us talk about the organization, they're
like, that's the same thing I'm going through.
But the number of people that we've been getting emails from, they said that
they left in the 70s and 80s and then in the 80s, they didn't want to have the
computer, like, you know, it was just like, if we would have had the computer
in the 80s, we would, I would have never got back.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's the whole, yeah, you're right.
Because I give you, for example, I've asked, you know, my parents, if they
had known about this organization, what we know today, if they had in their
hand, the resources that we have today to do research on the organization,
would they have gotten involved?
No.
See, what I feel like is because when I used to be a regular pioneer, one
of the things that, and I would watch people when I would go to their door
and we would sit there and we would do the, we were studying with people out
of the Live Forever and Paradise Earth Book.
And we would go to people's houses and I remember starting like five Bible
studies in this one particular time.
And me and my aunt, we were like, both together, hanging out together,
pioneering together, and we would go talk to these people.
And there's this one paragraph in the Live Forever book that talked about how
you're going to have some, you got some people in your family.
They're going to find out that you're studying with Jehovah's Witnesses and
they are going to tell you that it's wrong.
And so they're going to try to discourage you and all these kinds of things.
This is what we would tell the people on the Bible study.
And we were making headway.
We were really getting through to these people to really make them feel this
was the truth.
Sure enough, we would return the next week.
And all those people would tell us that they're family members.
You guys were right.
My family said, Lee, I was Jehovah's Witnesses alone.
You don't want to get involved with that group.
And I think that was what got them.
So even though they didn't continue in their study, there was still that little
cliffhanger there in the back of their mind.
Like, I do believe that there's some truth there because you gave them just
enough to be dangerous.
That's a good question.
I think I'll ask two more questions because I really want to do another show.
I think you've shown enough to tell me that we're scratching the surface.
And so there's so much good stuff here.
I would love to plan a future show at some point and maybe even in person
because I've got the camera gear and stuff.
We could do an awesome, you know, little series, if you will, in person.
I could do it all in one day, record it all with you guys in one day
and make it happen.
If that comes either way, we could do it like this.
If not, one of the questions is, can you recall how many people you've
converted or brought into the church?
Excuse me.
Can you remember if you've brought anyone in?
Because I asked this of Cliff Henderson.
I've asked this of Lloyd Evans, and he says, you know, I can't remember.
I remember like someone who had a child that was already kind of in the
organization, bringing them in, but like a random cold call at the front door.
And I found people who were not Christians or were not anything or were
Christians, but they weren't Jova's witness and brought them into the organization.
Have you ever done that?
You know what?
That's a good question.
And now that you say that, I'm kind of like going back in my mind because we,
I think it was our conduct that could have gotten some of our family
members to finally convert because we, I have cousins that since I've left
are now full practicing Jehovah's Witnesses.
And one of them sent me an email through Facebook and told me to come back to
Jehovah, you know, and I think that they realized, you know, hey, look,
you know, so through our conduct, a lot of people could have gotten
become witnesses, but not like actually going to the door.
But we did find out that we did recruit one person that we didn't realize.
My dad, because my dad said the reason why he got baptized is because he felt
like he was going to lose me as his daughter, because if he's not baptized
and I'm marrying a man who's really up in the organization, he felt like he
was going to lose me and that's why he got baptized.
So I feel like indirectly we could have been affected.
A lot of people could have been affected by our our actions like that.
That is an excellent question.
And she's right.
It's normally collateral.
In other words, people, you know, that kind of stuff.
But that's an excellent question because the answer for myself is no.
I have never knocked on someone's door.
I have never met a day in my life, studied with them, and they became a Jehovah's
Witness. In fact, that is basically where the largest growth is for most
congregations is within the families of Jehovah's Witnesses, co-workers of
Jehovah's Witnesses, people who know somebody next door neighbor, they see
you come in your family, dress in a suit and tie, and they take an interest
in what y'all are talking about.
But for the average Jehovah's Witness, and I am we, in fact, we discussed this
at one of our elders means when I was an elder, you know, we lived in the
city of Alexandria and there was literally only a handful, only a hand,
maybe five or six people who became Jehovah's Witnesses, who were actually
citizens of Alexandria, Virginia.
Most of them were people's kids, grandkids, cousins, grandma and that
kind of stuff.
And so the activity, and this is what makes this whole Watchtower preaching
work, really one of the biggest time wasters I have ever seen in my life.
I mean, it is, we would actually have the circuit overseer who would come and go
out with the Jehovah's Witnesses during the weekdays.
In Alexandria, Virginia, they would go into a building with 300 people and they
would come out with 299 not at the homes, because everybody's at work.
This organization is out of the thirties and the forties and the fifties when
housewives were at home, witnesses stopped by, started studying with the wife
and maybe they can get the husband to come in.
That's, and that's, and that is the basic for the last 100, almost 100 years.
That has been the basic premise of how this operation has worked.
And that's why they're struggling with this new digital age, because they're
not touching people, people just blowing them off now.
And that's why they've gone to basically nothing more than just placards now.
They have returned to the days of the placard where you, you could have a
sandwich placard.
That's what the cart is today.
It is nothing more than the sandwich placard that they used to have years ago
because the witness doesn't engage with people on the streets.
When I was coming along, you asked any Jehovah's Witness, what was the most feared
form of witnessing going to someone's house or doing street work?
Well, you have to be on the streets of whatever community you're in.
You in a little small town, y'all got three or four little stores.
You standing out there by the store, waiting for people to come up.
How you doing?
No, that's the most feared preaching work in the world.
And that's why this new preaching work that they're doing, they just stand there.
In fact, man, I've seen witnesses up on the, up on the, up on the tablet.
They don't even pay the cart no money.
It's, they're nothing more than just a vendor.
That's all they are now.
Wow.
The witness.
Yeah, the passion is, it seems like the passion.
Wow.
Let me ask you a final question because we really have, there's so many
rabbit trails we could get lost in doing shows specifically on.
And I can tell, first of all, I love you guys.
You guys are something else.
Not only are you very dynamic and you're very enthusiastic about what you do,
which really I think is going to save so many people.
I really hope that you guys get a lot of followers from this.
Grow your channel.
I hope your channel expands because the more lives that are touched by your
message and what you guys are showing, man, I really hope it does on a scale
that you can't even imagine right now.
I'd like to see that happen.
It is at this point, man, to be honest with you, we never, and we discuss this
meeting, we never imagined that we would, we have brought, we have, we have
helped more people leave.
We really feel like we're doing something now.
You're doing the Lord's work.
Yeah, I mean, we've had more people leave, man.
Exactly.
And it's not really helped people.
It's not that we've done anything special.
Because our count not time.
Yeah, because our count not time, man.
So it's not that we've done anything special.
We've tried to, that's why we kind of set up our channel the way we did.
We just wanted people, we didn't want to come out and one of the most
important thing is you have to, when you leave the organization, you have to
come to some point where the anger is, is, is, you put it in its place.
Cause you're going to be, you're going to be in this way.
Anybody who's ever been ripped off was ticked off for a little while.
Yep.
Wow.
I don't care who it is.
If anybody's been, if anybody's watching this video has ever been ripped off,
you bought something, you thought you was buying, you paid and you paid a lot
for it and it turned to be a piece of trash.
You are going to be ticked off.
So it's normal to see people on the channels.
Man, I mean, man, I mean, it just blowed up because, you know,
you did so much to the damage to them, but we realized, yeah, you're going
to be that way, but you got to kind of move on.
And so we wanted to come out for one basic purpose to let people know.
There is life after watch tower.
See, they told us, man, you were going to be unhappy that your life was going
to go to the hell in the hand basket and you will be on drugs,
sudden crack and, and, and, and swinging on poles and all that kind of stuff.
But chief, we're the basic, what you see right now is basically what we were before.
We're the same basic people doing same basic thing.
We just ain't hawking books on the weekend.
That's it.
Wow.
And so people in the, and we, and we've been on our channel, we've been trying
to bring people on who have left the organization and they have gone on to do
things outside of the organization that has brought them a certain measure
of joy and happiness.
So you can see, because when witnesses see us, they're like, y'all smiling.
I mean, I got my wife gala me one time, you know, it was cold.
It was cold.
We ran up on this brother, you know, and, and, and, and he was standing
at me like you tired, man, like you wore out.
And you can see, he was just broke down because he just came out of field service.
He got to go home and study his watchtower.
And so he's a broken man and see he's up in age now.
He's one of those guys who said it's going to come soon and it hasn't got here yet.
Wow.
So, so that's, that's, that's, we didn't give him a chance to ask his last question.
Oh, you're fine now.
Look, this is why I'm, I love doing this because I allow you guys to really take it.
You're fine.
No, I got to ask you one more.
So I'm going to have to hear something now.
Are there anyone in your, in your family that are in the organization that don't
speak to you, can't speak to you or purposely have outcasted you completely
that you can't talk to, that you wish you could, that you would love to say words
to right now and tell them how much you love them.
And, you know, like, look, I love you no matter what, because I know what you're
thinking and I understand where you're at.
But is there anyone in your life that your family?
Yes, for me, I have a very personal situation.
My mom's baby sister and she had left the organization and she said she wasn't
going back and then she ended up getting a diagnosis with cancer and she still
talked to me and helped me get through the situation with care taken for my mom.
Mom just had a birthday yesterday and mom is still here, but her sister died.
It'll be a year in April.
Wow.
My aunt went to her grave, not talking to me.
And she literally, I mean, if I called the, if I tried to talk to her house,
I got like one time I called to her house and I talked to my uncle, who's
not a baptized witness.
After that phone call, he could no longer call me in her presence.
She wouldn't even let him call my father.
So, and he's not, and he wasn't baptized, but she went to her grave, not talking
to me, that kind of hurt.
And it hurt my dad really bad because my father, he goes, I remember I met her
when she was nine years old.
And when she graduated from high school, she came to live with us.
I was the maid of honor, no, not the maid of honor.
I was the flower girl in her wedding.
And her daughter was the flower girl in mine.
And she went to her and we were, we were close.
We used to be close as a family.
Yeah.
And she went to her grave, not speaking to me.
That was terrible.
This, this is, this is the worst part of this organization.
That this fellow shipping process, this is something that is not, and you can,
and you can doc, you can, you can, you can check for yourself.
I'm going to tell you when a person is studying with one of Jehovah's witnesses,
this is not part of the study program.
There is no chapter.
There is no chapter in the book that you're studying with a Jehovah's
witness, a person where you will go over how the disfellows shipping works, how
it will impact you.
And this is really devastating, especially for people who are kids.
The government states society will not allow a child, a minor to sign an agreement,
a lifetime agreement, yet the watchtower will allow a child nine years old.
If you think a child who's nine years old fully understands and comprehends that
if you jack up your grandmama, your cousins, your uncles, your brothers and
sisters will not speak to you for the rest of your life.
If you think a nine year old child understands that big mama's not going to
talk to him no more, you're a fool.
You're a fool.
And that's what happens when these young people get baptized.
They don't realize that they have literally signed a contract.
It's chief is almost like being in a muffin and one way out.
And so that's what makes this thing so sad.
We talked to people who got baptized at eight, nine, 10 years old, man.
They had no idea how what disfellows shipping was.
And so this is one of the, and people often wonder, this will probably be the
very last tool that Jehovah's Witnesses will ever get rid of, ever.
And they probably never will because it is the most powerful to right now.
Watching this video, there are people who are still in this organization and
they want to leave.
They want to get out, even have that little names for emails and
premium outcomes.
Okay.
They want to leave.
The watchtower know as long as we got this disfellows shipping thing over
your head, you ain't going nowhere.
If the watchtower was a drop that is fellows shipping thing today, the kingdom
halls, they all empty now, but they will be empty.
People would be gone.
This is the, when you have a, I heard a guy make a statement once and I thought
it was so powerful.
He said, if you want to know you're in a cult or not, see how they treat you
when you leave.
Okay.
We know people who they, they, they, they get, they go down to Mount
Nebo church and they don't lack the pastor or whatever.
They, I'm getting out of here and they go to Mount Calvary next week.
Yeah.
Nobody over in Mount Nebo is going to treat them like a dirt.
But in an organization and other organizations, very similar to this who
work on this, like you said, your personal life experience.
You said the things we were talking about, you said that we just, we just click
it because they are all from the same cut, different flavor, same basic product.
And so this is what makes it so sad.
But like I said, the point of our videos is very simple.
Realize there is life outside the organization.
And today, unlike in the past, there is a growing support organization that you
can turn to, that you can talk to, and you can hear people share your stories
just like you have.
And that's what's going to, to me, that's going to be the game changer.
If you are thinking about leaving, you're going to make it.
You're going to make it.
You're going to make it.
Wow.
That's powerful.
You two are something else, really, really great, great conversation.
I really do appreciate you coming on here.
Everyone who's watching, please go hit their subscribe button on their channel.
Make sure it's down in the description.
It makes you guys hit that like button.
You know, help them grow this so that more people can hear it.
I really do appreciate what you guys do because you're giving people freedom.
And also, they can think critically.
Those tools can be used not only on the organization itself and the books
that they use and how they approach people in everyday life.
You can take this tool and this skill set on how to live life.
And I really appreciate everything and joining me on the show.
Let's do this again sometime.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Yes.
For sure.
Yeah, this is fantastic.
Thank you.
I really do appreciate it.
And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are Mithvision.
