Ladies and gentlemen Catherine Roberts joins me today on myth vision podcast and let me tell you you don't want to miss this
Deconversion story. She was part of the Holy Ghost Holy Spirit movement
Pentecostal-ish type of movements where there's laying on of hands and
casting out demons and doing prophecies and gold dust and vomiting and
Just unbelievable stuff that I am aware of when I was in the Christian
Movement one of the earlier versions of Christianity. I had been in was extremely
Spirit-filled you don't want to miss this episode. This is so good
Make sure you guys join the patreon all of this stuff is released early there and you help us grow at myth vision. Thank you
You
We are
Myth vision welcome back to myth vision podcast Derek Lambert your host ladies and gentlemen
We're gonna be talking to somebody who was once
If I could use the term
Completely consumed with Christianity their entire life. They're focused. They're every thought they're every deed was all a reflection of
What what they were doing and God was watching, you know, so I'm super excited to hear some of what your story is about
But I only have your first name and I'd have to look at Facebook even remember the last name
I should put my last name on there Derek. I'm sorry Robert. It's okay. That's okay. My last name is Roberts. Catherine Roberts. Yeah
So I have no clue about your story
No, it is I saw you on Facebook on the normalizing atheism group and you were just like I'm ready to share my story and I said
Well, let's find out what it is. I don't know anything about it
So
Tell us about you. Tell us about your journey what your life is like what what it was like in the religion and then of course
Towards the climatic
Sure. Well, I was like I was what you know, I I born again
believer
um and for 20
Almost 24 years
So, um, you know, it's a lot to one. It's a lot to unpack in you know, it was a long time
um, but basically
I considered myself an atheist right up until I was 28
Um, but I didn't really I know now. I didn't know what an atheist was
Um, I thought the same thing that a lot of people think that atheists are just people who secretly hate god and want to
sin
um, and so
Um, but I never went to church or anything until I was 28
And I think what got me there was I was really really depressed
Um, lonely. I was a single mother of three kids who were, you know, under the age of five
um, and I was just severely depressed and a friend of mine, uh, told me about
Jesus and you know said that god loved me and wanted me to have a better life and
um, and I I guess her words really
Struck a chord with me
So off I went to church at 28 for the first time in my life and she was Pentecostal
So I I went to a Pentecostal church and I remember them singing. Um, are you washed in the blood?
And I looked over and I said to you guys really
Like will they be bringing out blood to wash in like I had no clue
No clue. Um, and so
But I what happened is I got so immersed into it so quickly. I had an instant
friend circle
like huge
Social life all of a sudden to in church, you know, what uh, what it's like, uh, right from the beginning. I was in
um
women's ministries and bible studies and new converts class and
Pre-service prayer and church twice on Sundays and once during the week
And so my depression lifted
And to me that was evidence that I had a supernatural
Experience and it confirmed to me that everything that these people were saying had to be
Was was right
You know, and so I I put aside a lot of questions for a long time
I was told, you know, I was a baby christian. So just, you know, put those kinds of
Any doubts put that aside for a while and a while turned into
24 years
So technically if it doesn't break if it does if it works, don't break it, of course
Fixing yeah, but why buck against this thing that worked and helped you. Yeah. Well, I think it was more like, um
It became my life really quickly and so
I got immersed into like this bubble of of
theology and doctrine and and the same circle of people and so it became my
My universe, you know
And I was a bible literalist
so
You know, I was so I lived a very strict life you could imagine what a you know
I mean, I didn't read a secular book for 20 something years. Um
I only tasted whiskey when I was almost 50
You know, um, yeah, I didn't listen to
Anything other than christian music for over two decades
Didn't watch an x-rated movie
Horror movies I thought would get me
possessed
Demons
Did you stay in the pentecostal church? Oh, I got uh, no, I went even deeper. I went even deeper
Eventually the pentecostal wasn't even religious enough for me. I became an independent pentecostal
um, and so
You know, I mean I had a lot of strange things in the pentecostal church. I'm sorry, but um
But it's I mean that's that that's the uh, that's the facts
I've seen some really strange things and and I'm embarrassed now when I
Look back to the stuff that I
Believed, you know that I swallowed hook line and sinker just all kinds of bullshit stuff. Um
You know gold dust falling from the sky and people getting
Gold fillings miraculously and people losing 50 pounds in church over, you know, all this kinds of weird
out there
Kind of stuff if you do you have any experience like in any kind of
Pentecostal circles. Well, it wasn't pentecostal, but it was in the vein of the same movement of
Gifts and prophecy and yes spirit filled demon possessions casting out demons things like that
I've casted so many demons. I'm telling you
And or have you well, I've never
Because it's such a psychological crazy hypnosis type situation people wouldn't understand unless they were there
They go, how can you crazy people do that? They don't get the social structure the environment
Yeah, we get like primed to do it and and there's something special about them laying their hands on you and
Like you know, it's weird, I don't know
Yeah, yeah
I was there. I was there. Yeah
Yeah, I mean people falling, you know laughter crying
There was a thing called travelling that we used to believe in and that was like we believe that the holy ghost
Was birthing something spiritually through us
So, you know, you could see people on the floor groaning in pain like they're in childbirth
I mean, Jesus, I'm so embarrassed now to even say it but that is the kind of shit
I've prayed over people in church and they've like they've been throwing up
And everybody like prays in Jesus because that's a deliverance. You know, um,
Oh god. Oh my gosh. It's one of the worst thing I ever saw
This was one of the things that like was the first time my husband and I said, you know, maybe we should just
You know rethink a few things
But we were at a church in um, Nova Scotia
and
They had a pastor a preacher come in from the Toronto airport church. I don't know if you are familiar
No
Yeah, well, he was like he said he was preaching
and stomping his foot and winning like a horse during his
Sermon and people were crawling around on the floor
looking for gold dust
And it was a new church that we had gone to and my husband and I looked at each other and were like this is
Something I mean for all of the crazy things that I believed
And participated in that was like
I think the first wake-up call like holy shit. This is a bit out there
So this this brings me to a question. I think
That is important
You were you just a church goer for many years and then you became someone in the church
um
Okay, so
Two weeks after I got saved. I guess you know what that what what I'm referring to. Okay. Some people don't know
I mentioned something about speaking in tongues the other day and and this Catholic woman had
No clue what I was talking about. Yeah, you're not saved if you're not filled with the holy spirit
Exactly. Yeah, you
So I
I spoke my I gave my first message. I guess I was sharing my testimony. I was saved for two weeks
I spoke at a sunday school class of young kids
And
Very quickly like after I got converted. I saw a woman preacher and I'm like I want to do that
And so I started working towards it and um,
you know, I I started speaking at women's
conferences and meetings and different churches. Um
And then I actually got ordained in 2013
And I was a senior pastor from 2011
to
2017
So I passed her to the small church um in uh on the prairies on the Canadian prairies
Wow, it has a little church on the prairies
And it was it was definitely holy ghost filled type. Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. It was we were the talk of the town
There was it was a tiny little town with probably six or eight churches and ours was
The only holy rollers
Oh, man, we were the only ones with those prayer cloths to cover up the women's legs when they fell on the floor when you prayed for them, right?
Yeah, it is interesting probably some people watch this ago. What you had to speak in tongues to show
Well, how do you show you had the Holy Spirit, right?
Yeah, it was that was one of my main
Topics to teach on I remember I was invited to different churches
To speak on it. I wrote a bible study on on the on
Yeah, the baptism of the Holy Spirit like what a waste of time though
It's just amazing what people looking at you right now
Could not imagine how deep of insanity
You know in that world within our mind of of this this worldview
Yeah, really we're in and too often we see yeah, Jehovah's Witness is cult
Scientology cult
You know Mormons cult people are okay to say that when you start getting into Christianity
Or any versions of it they start going I stop using that word. We're not a cult
No, the stuff that we were in even though it's not maybe a high control depending on where you're at
Yeah, it's not as high control as jw's and others. It's a cult. This is a
Absolutely, um according to the bike model
um
I I mean I printed it off and highlighted all of the stuff that
you know
That I experienced and probably 90 of it
Yeah, like
We didn't shun people like if they left our church, we didn't say, you know
I can't even say that. I mean
A pastor said that within a year we were either going to be divorced or one of us was going to have cancer
So you didn't get shunned but you freaking well knew that you were not your friends after you let that church
Right and I I would tell the same thing to people in my congregation
I remember an elderly lady wanted to go to a different church in town
And they didn't believe in healing and I was very concerned about her
Health and didn't think you know and I remember telling her that it's a matter of life and death
where you go to church so
You know, I mean, that's a lot of freaking pressure
My old house church that I went to because it was a house church who was run by a little much
Right and she was into this stuff. She taught me a lot of this
She used to get mad when she'd find out that I had visited another church and she'd say
They're not teaching line upon line
Precept upon precept. This was a common phrase
Yes, for us it was the full gospel, you know, if they weren't they weren't full gospel, which literally just meant they didn't speak in tongues
You know, that was the only part of the gospel they were missing
Yeah, and to them that's that's everything. I mean, that's that's the number one thing and
Sometimes they'd have this whole like ask the lord for forgiveness and ask for him to
To forgive you and whatnot they'd have altar calls and then after that like a choo choo train
Everybody went to the altar had to go back to this private room where everyone together held hands
And and tried to kind of like train everyone to speak in tongues to show that they had been filled with the Holy Spirit
Oh, yes. Yeah
My life trying to convince people that they were baptized in the Holy Spirit could speak in tongues
I just figure that's an important part of this whole thing being how crazy we were and that and in your story
and also like, you know, I we believed in divine healing and so
um
I know people who have died from cancer
because they wouldn't they were believing that Jesus was their healer and so like I know a lot of people who
Looked at it like a badge of spiritual honor if you
Didn't seek natural help for something
You know, um, and then it was frowned upon like for me, um
I've suffered with depression all my life and what I wouldn't take medication. I tried it over the years
but the guilt of
Not even like I didn't feel guilty. I just truly believe that
I don't shouldn't take the medication because Jesus
Was better somehow, you know, um, so I really suffered needlessly for years with with depression
Only I didn't call it depression, of course
They were all spiritual attacks then
You know, you know, I learned to rephrase a lot of shit that happened in my life. So
That was just a tax from the devil
You bring up so many important things when you say that
That could take a show itself just talking about how these
church
Huh mental health in the church exactly and how they are
Everything's a spirit. Everything's a demon or a spirit or a ghost or an energy or something and they they just
Schizophrenia those are spirits talking in your head. That's not real and that I interviewed a guy who actually said that on my channel
I'm so not cool with stuff like that. So yeah, that's the harms of these things. So
I was gonna say take me through this
You become a leader
But I suspect that there are other leaders or other people still part of this
What started to happen to you? I mean when you're that deep
Yeah, I don't know if there's words you can really put
It's yeah
First of all, there's not enough. I don't have the words to
fully explain
how
my god belief
was
The center of my being like every decision I made from 1996
until 2018
Was filtered through
What I believed was the truth of the bible
um, and so
You know, I mentioned about reading books and that kind of stuff, you know, I didn't read secular books or listen to secular music
But it goes so much deeper than that like how I spent my money and what
Jobs we had and and how we raised our kids and
You know the kinds of people we hung out with all of those things everything
Was all tied to to jesus in the center of it
um
and so
it was
quite uh
Transition to come out of it and the first thing I think the first thing that made me question
Is well, I know um is the whole matter of homosexuality
My son is gay
And when he came when he came out
in high school, I um
Was going to write a book
About what the bible says about homosexuality
Because I was convinced when I started that in my research
I will find out that all these people that say that god hates gays
Are wrong
um, and so that's I set it on that mission and found out that it
That's not the case the bible is very anti-gay
and I couldn't
reconcile that in my head, you know
um
And I I remember
Going to interview uh
ex priest who had left the priesthood because he was gay well
He was forced out because he found out he was gay. Um, and he was such a
Wonderful human being like we have brunch in this really nice restaurant and we spent hours talking and
And it was the first time I opened my mind to think like
How could god hate somebody like I think this man is wonderful
And I would I wish nothing but good things for him
And then knowing that the god that I said I love would send him to hell and
send my son to hell
and
So of course when I'm faced with the
conflict of
It just doesn't seem very moral for god to want to punish my child
you know
And so that's a conflict, you know, it's like i'm suddenly
The morality of the god that I thought was the end all and be all of morality
Wasn't so much I couldn't figure it out. How could he want to hurt my little sweet baby?
Like he's just a freaking
wonderful human
It's interesting you say that because I've had people when I've done shows say you think you're more moral than god
Yes, this point. That's exactly what I actually said and I know that they don't like to hear that but I say it all the time
Plenty of text to show I wouldn't do things this way now. They'll go but that's why you're not god
Okay, whatever you want to say buddy
The point in making is
There was I had to swallow a pill on calvinism because I had become a calvinist god predestined everything and the biggest pill was
God literally like created hell created heaven a place ready prepared
For people in destruction in romans 9. I was looking at paul and he's like uh for vessels prepared for destruction and vessels
Prepared glory and i'm thinking to myself
Okay, hold on
Like you're actually
How can I say you're all loving? I just don't get it. He literally says jake up. I love you. So I hate it, right?
So i'm like, okay. He must hate people and I thought to myself
What if one of my own family members doesn't believe in this god?
did he predestined some of them to cook and
I that was not the that wasn't the straw that broke the camels back for me
It was just it was just something in my head. I had always thought about and I couldn't quite
Rationalize it with my belief
You know, so I remember like in the early years of my uh christianity
When I was first reading the bible, I remember questioning a lot about the morality in there
I remember calling my pastor and asking about
Oh
She i'm forgetting the bible stories now tamar was raped by her brother
and then um
I think he she had to she had to marry him or something and and and I remember saying like this just seems like so
You know and then you know all of the times
That that god would send people in and say like kill all of them
Don't take anybody as prisoners kill all of the kids and all of it
Like how did we miss all of the immorality in the bible? I don't understand. I mean she god sent
Youngster or said bears to kill youngsters for making making fun of the prophet's bald head
Yeah, there's some people who will say oh well, that's uh allegory, but even if it is that's like
Yeah, well then well, that's the problem because then then now you're gonna now you have to decide what's going to be allegory and what's
Not um, and so, you know now you're just cherry picking which I guess
All things are cherry pickers. That's that's my uh, that's my take on it. You have to be
Yeah, because if you read the bible completely
You're gonna become an atheist. I'm sorry. I tell people all the time to read the bible
Or at least not
Especially if you're really thinking about it not filtered through a pastor telling you what it must mean what it must say go read it yourself
Yeah, you might walk away and go. Okay. This is this is definitely a bronze age tale or some very old
Uh, maybe history mixed with mid-year. Yeah, yeah
That just isn't something I would apply to today for my own personal life. Yeah
I can find all the good stuff here in pagan narratives. I could find all the good stuff in other stories in modern movies
I don't need the bible so to speak but um, let me ask you this you you mentioned your son
And I know that had to be very painful
Being in christianity
Knowing your god
Isn't okay with these guys. Yeah people, you know, so so that started it
but what
Yeah, that that started it and
I
Eventually got to the place
Where I guess I was probably a deist. Um, I was
I had gone through my doctrine to the point where I thought hell seems to be
immoral
So I don't I don't believe in hell
Um, you know an infinite punishment an infinite torment
for something as
As as innocent as not accepting jesus
That is that's horribly immoral, you know, so
Eventually I had whittled my
Doctrine down to the fact that god just exists and I can't know anything else about it
Um, because I couldn't get behind the bible anymore
Once I discovered that I'm like more moral than the god of the bible
Then I was like, well, then how do I know?
About god, then if I don't if the bible isn't
The book where I find out
You know, where do I go? Do I go to somebody else's?
religious book, um
You know, where do I go? Do I go to nature to look for god? I didn't know
Um, and so I just let it I just left it like that for probably a couple of years
Just thinking god exists and someday we'll find out
Um, and then we had this conversation with my daughter
about
different theories of
Of how
Mankind came about it was just an innocent conversation. We were talking about the simulation theory
um
And it was the first time in my whole life that I ever stopped to think
See I had questioned all of the doctrine of the bible
But I never questioned whether or not the god existed
and when we started talking about other
Plausible explanations, you know, and I'm not saying that we're a simulation, but it makes just as much sense
as
Adam and Eve in the bible and and a talking snake and
And the fall of man and all this kind of stuff, you know, so
It was the first time that my mind opened to that to the fact that hey, what about the god?
belief
And as soon as like it was instant Derek, it was
It was instant like I woke up the next morning and my life had fallen apart. It was really hard
How did that work with church because now you're I mean you you just stopped going
I had left. Oh, yeah, I skipped that part. Um, I had left the church in 2017 because we um
We I was we we had our own business and I was working and I was volunteering with victim services
And I was writing and I just couldn't do all of it. So
Um, I resigned and that gave me
The um freedom the freedom. Yeah. Yeah, and and the time to
Because all of my reading before that was all about like, how can I teach this to the congregation?
You know, I I wasn't so much examining it
For myself maybe right and and it was it was in that when we retired and we moved here in the middle of nowhere
I live in the woods practically
Um, just me and the husband and the dog and we started talking
We were talking like every night about all of these things that we believed and
And we realized that none of it made any sense
You both together are on the same. Yes. Wow good for him
Hey good, I'm glad yeah, I don't know how people go through it separately. I mean, we've been married
We were married 30 years at that point. We've been married over 32 years now. Um,
And I can't imagine if he
if if he had
stayed, you know
That kind of a believer
Not sure how that would work. Yeah. Yeah, that must be even more difficult and as it is if we went through a very hard transition
um, because we didn't
know
How to live without
This jesus belief. Wow. It was incredibly incredibly disorienting
um and confusing
I went into a deep depression
um
I would get up in the morning and sit on the couch and think but I don't even know what to do like what do I do during the day?
It's very hard to explain like when you're calling and you're you know, you're you're
Vision for the future was all was all tied to jesus
So I felt like my past was nothing but bullshit and my future was all of a sudden gone
And I was I was stuck
And plus I didn't know a single person who wasn't a christian
um, didn't know what an atheist even was let alone if if I was an atheist
um
And uh, so I ended up going online and
Googling things like what happens when you don't believe in god anymore
And I found some really good resources that just really saved my freaking life really
Yeah, for sure
The recovering from religion uh foundation. Uh, just they were the first people that we called
And I didn't even know what to say like like, um, I don't believe in god anymore. And I don't know how to live
You know, and they just they were so freaking great. Um the clergy project. We got involved with that right away and that's
Fabulous organization for people like like me who were in the ministry or people who are still in the ministry but no longer believe
um
and then I got
Therapy for religious trauma syndrome
Through the secular therapy project another great organization
And so I got 12 free sessions of therapy
And I needed it
I needed it to get my back on straight
I have to say this as someone who's been aware you're in a way and in fact just based on what you told me
My the movement I was part of was very sisterlike to the movement you were part of
You guys seemed to may have gone a little bit further potentially than the one I was part of just by a few aspects
But I wouldn't be shocked if gold dust stuff would have eventually came on the scene, but she died
She told me one time. I loved her. Her name was ellie. She told me one time. She said
Jesus told me I could hear the voice of him. You know, you know, you have these
You know how deep you get to the point you're hearing things in your head
You're trying to think that was that god's voice all the weird
And she said that jesus told her
She would be alive
At his coming right like she was gonna be alive
She's dead now and so was the girl that was a sweetheart that worked with her in the church
But uh, they were beautiful wonderful people
Isn't that the hardest part
I see
Wonderful people. I don't have one bad thing to say
I have a one any christian that I met in the 24 years
That I was a christian
Every single person I met was sincere
I can't think of any that weren't yeah, um, just sincerely wrong
Um, but wonderful beautiful people breaks my heart, you know, I like I said, I've seen people
I know people who have died
I know somebody was cutting off their own tumor
Like with a pair of scissors it
It's fucking dangerous. It's dangerous religion is what it is
You know, I know a young man who was a worship leader
um, and uh, his mind started to go he ended up in a
um, like on the psychiatric ward and he his parents kept
Ah taking him out and putting him in religious
Yeah
counseling
And he ended up jumping off of a cliff thinking that he could fly like he had mental he was mentally ill and needed
Help, you know real help
Well final question
And this is a good reflection
You said when you turn 28 you finally started drinking the juice the jesus juice. Yeah, you didn't you you weren't
You know, I guess people a lot of christians like to say oh, I was an atheist but became a christian
You didn't really know
You know, it's very rare that someone actually knows and studies and and then comes to a conclusion of comparison. I can't imagine
Yeah, I can't imagine right so my question is
How happy are you now?
I have the best life in the freaking world. I am so I can't imagine if I get any happier
That would have to be two of me. I'm to contain it. I'm telling you. Um, I mean I'm 53 and
I feel like I'm just I've only just started to live in a in a lot of ways
But yet at the same time I've had like a very rich life even as a christian
I've I've done a lot of things and you know met a lot of wonderful people and stuff
but now
It's like having an adult brain and that might be hard for some people to understand but to make my own decisions
based on
rationality and logic
instead of seeking some supernatural
Direction or revelation
That's that's huge and it's very fulfilling. I feel like for the first time in my life. I'm
Authentic I am my authentic self. Wow. I don't care what anybody believes what anybody thinks of me anymore
I have lost all of that fear of
um ruining my reputation if people don't I'm
Friggin weird. I know I'm weird
Um, I have a friggin unusual life and I don't care. I love it. You know, I know I'm I I'm an
Atheist who used to be a pastor and people are a little bit afraid of me and
That's okay
I'm as happy as a I say happy's a pig and shit, but my husband's a farmer and he says pigs don't actually like shit. So
Oh, it doesn't work. No, um, yeah, I'm I'm so happy
Would you say it was due to the not only the time being away you kind of got to mourn the death of your religion
In a in a healthy way because you were you were able to get the treatment you needed without that you'd be
There's no telling how you would be at this point, right?
Yeah, I um
I can't I can't
Begin to express how much that religious trauma therapy helped
um because
When you're indoctrinated for decades
Your brain, you know, my brain patterns just weren't
Rational if that makes sense, you know, um, I didn't know how to
Think for myself so much. So
Um, yeah, it's it's so much better
Makes perfect sense. That's how I got it. I'm I'm super happy to be
Yeah, yeah, I don't want and I don't want to carry a chip on my shoulder
But I do want to educate and expose these ideas for more people. They understand
That life is great outside. You don't have to stay in and yeah
I find it strange when people say well an atheist doesn't have anything to live for or
I used to think atheists must be this sad as most miserable people in the world
But hey, I get to I get to pick out my own friends, which I never got to do before
I get to you know, go where I want watch what I want
Say what I want
I spent 20 something years not being able to say things like my back is killing me or
I'm dying with the cold. We you know, I had to be careful of every word and every thought
And that's true. It's it was mind control for 24 years
And my husband says he says that it's like a brain space opened up and that's true when all of that
Religious doctrinal bullshit was gone
Um, it's like having a wide open mind
Wow
Well said Catherine. I I really want to uh, you know plug any of your stuff when it does come out
Let me know we can always do an updated video. We can go into some of the topics, of course
But I'll put it down in the description any kind of words someone out there right now
They're they're doubting. They're afraid. You already know what I'm talking about. They are terrified
Yeah, what would you say to that person right now?
I would say that you're not alone even though you feel like you're alone because I I thought
I was alone everybody. It seems like everybody around you believes in God
I went to my doctor
When when that happened and I was talking about what happened to me and he tried to convince me there was a god
So you do can you can feel very alone in it
Um, but you're not you're not alone. There's a lot of great resources out there. I've named some of them
You know reach out to someone
um take
Take things slowly that that would be a
A good piece of advice
When I became an atheist, I wanted everybody to know when I was mad at everybody, you know
And that's you know, it's just it should be when when you're questioning that kind of stuff
It should be all about you at that time. Don't worry about
Deconverting anybody just focus on yourself
And learn about religious trauma, especially if you're coming from the kind of background that I came from
Because it is traumatic
Wow
Thank you so much. This is so much fun. I'm so glad that I came on. Thanks for
Look, I hope this helps somebody watching. I know that me and you have a similar background in that respect
I'm glad I didn't go into the ministry like I was going to
Yeah, I had changed my views based on the texts like often
And um and so I thought well if I end up becoming a pastor plus I had struggled with addiction throughout the years
But I thought if I became a pastor of a flock, I always wanted to be
but I also was kind of afraid like
My view is going to change in a year or two and I'm stuck under a particular
Denomination and now what you know, what are I leaving now? I gotta go
There's so much of a headache to think about with this, but uh, thank you so much. I relate to everything
Yeah, I've said literally, uh, I can't I can't think of a single thing that you haven't said that
in some way really
I can relate to that so thank you. It's hard to believe that there's people out there like me and you hey in 2021
That people still believe
That kind of stuff. That's what that's what I think but but there's still out there
And it just takes one second for you and me to really put to think
We can think that way for one moment and realize how
Closed off the thinking is. Yeah, then you can realize I could see how that's possible. Yes
But that is such a thick cloud of I
Don't know how to describe walls brick walls of thinking and it's oh, yeah
Yeah, oh, absolutely. It's very small thinking
Um, I say it's like being in a bubble and you're in a tiny little bubble. You think the bubble is your whole
life you think the bubble is the whole universe
And and it's not it's just a tiny little bubble and there's all kinds of bubbles around everybody's got thrown a little
Religious bubble and they all think that they're in the friggin universe. No get out of your bubble
The world is big. It's big and beautiful and exciting
Wow, right? Yes
Yeah said
Okay, I just blaspheme the Holy Spirit like three different languages. I know I know that's okay. I'll I'll see you in hell
You know, it's funny how they interpret that whole blaspheme of the Holy Spirit is a some of them interpret as a mockery of the speaking tongues
And it's like really dude. Anyway, uh, we have a lot more to talk about Catherine because you and me have similar cultish backgrounds
Yeah, we were drinking that Kool-Aid like no other. Yeah, we did. Yeah. Oh, yeah, for sure
So if you guys are
Wondering and you're struggling and you just don't know you can always join us here at myth vision because never forget
We are
Myth vision
