Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis Armand-Thonone and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm the host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, this person that I'm introducing today, Darlene, is a very good
friend of mine.
I hope you guys show some love in the chat, leave a comment, especially after you hear
her story and where she was at, how the religion has treated her and what has happened in her
personal experience to where she's at today and how she's loving life and enjoying it.
As you can see her in front of her, Winnebago, if you will, this wonderful life she now has
because you're going to hear some of the low points as we go along.
This is a real flesh and blood human who has feelings, who's been through more than I've
ever been through and I've been through heroin addiction.
Let me tell you, my story doesn't compare to hers.
Ladies and gentlemen, Darlene Murphy, welcome to MythVision, my friend.
Oh, that's so sweet, Derek.
You're my hero, man.
Well you are too and especially as a woman in a world that has been, if you will, possessed
by a patriarchal system for so long and it's time that we wake up together and realize
we're equal.
There is no us above you and better than you and you've had a lot of men in life that have
treated you this way throughout your whole life.
But you know what?
You kept going and here you are today.
So I want everyone who's watching to go check out some of her books and these titles are
hilarious.
Calm down.
It's not that serious.
She's addressing the Christians out there, okay?
The chronicles of a saint heathen, you want to get into her life?
This is something you really want to check out.
I mean, what had happened was, see what had happened was and the adventures of Sparky Madness
and how she met Captain Save a Ho.
We're going to get into this.
This is a true story, but we're going to do a drive-by, if we will, on this.
Go to the description of this, get the books.
You guys can check out her life and get a magnifying glass into what it was like for
her.
Darlene, I guess we'll start off simple.
Were you a Christian?
And if you were, what kind of Christian were you?
Man.
That's so, I was a sold out.
Jesus dropped out my lips every time I opened my mouth and spoke Christian.
My poor family, bless their hearts.
They still love me, thank goodness.
I was sold out.
I grew up in a castle.
Then I got hold of the Grace Camp and I let a lot of people walk on me in the name of
Jesus, but in the process of it all, I discovered that I have a servant's heart and I still
want to help people and I don't care how mean and nasty and hateful they are.
That's not who I am, but I can be if you provoke me, like I'm the sweetheart till you provoke
me.
I was so sold out that when I wrote my book, I was like, holy shit, I was crazy.
Like somebody should have been medicating me and making me go to therapy sessions every
way because it was sad.
Like that book, the Chronicles of a Heathen slash Saint was the most difficult piece
of writing I've ever done because I'd been, you know, like I'd deconstructed.
I didn't look at any of that stuff for a couple of years.
And when I went back and started pulling those blogs to write that book with, I was like,
holy shit, no wonder.
I really believe that stuff.
That God never showed up for me.
I stayed in the 18 year marriage with a crackhead because I was trying to honor God.
It was stupid.
It costed me everything and I didn't get anything back out of the deal.
So yeah, I've been divorced since December 7th.
Woo, woo.
Best thing that ever happened to me.
I started working on me.
I lost 50 pounds walking my dog.
I just started working on me and looking at better things.
Like my girlfriend taught me about energy.
You called me and saved my life, man.
I'm like, what the hell, man?
What am I going to do without a God?
Who am I going to talk to at night when I lay down to go to sleep?
And you call me up and you told me, you told me two analogies.
I'll never forget it, man.
And I'm not going to repeat one of them because I cry every time I hear it.
It was the analogy about Satan talking about how he can hide God from humanity.
Right.
And then you told me about the six wise men and the elephant and you said to me, darling,
do you believe there's a God?
And I said, yeah, I believe there's a God.
And he's like, you're like, well, screw everybody else.
If you believe there's a God for you, then there's a God for you.
And so you figure something out, don't let anybody else tell you what to believe.
And it was deep, man.
It saved my life.
I'm like, holy shit.
What do you do without a God?
I was indoctrinated my whole life.
That's right.
Yeah.
And I remember those conversations when you were crying on the phone, man, you saved my life.
But you've come a long way, darling.
You know, you're successful.
You're working as a server up there.
Was it Red Lobster now?
I work at Red Lobster and I get up every morning like I'm up at four in the morning.
Anyways, I took a little part time job that I already passed that once at Fairfield Inn.
I set up their continental breakfast every day and people give me money there.
It's so crazy.
But I work there from like 5 30 in the morning till 10 is 11 ish.
And then I come home and then I work at Red Lobster four days a week.
But I also decided to become a farmer in the meantime.
I'm not very good at it, but my horticulture skills kick ass.
Like, yeah.
And it's so crazy, you know, like when you have connections and you have people that
you love in the church, you can like send a cry out and people show up for you.
Like I needed one hundred and forty nine dollars one day to go and fall for
custody of my grandson because of a situation.
And I had five different people give me that money.
So like losing that connection was really hard for me because I didn't have anybody
to step out and help me anymore.
So it's been really cool.
Like the world has been renewing my faith in people because everything that I
planted from seed, I'm a terrible farmer, but I'm going to get better.
Good.
Like some of the flowers made it, but the food didn't make it.
And I discovered along the way, it wasn't what I was doing.
It was a portion of my yard that I had it planted in.
But every single plant, flower, banana tree, cannelly, everything.
Those people gave me this stuff, dude.
It's so like if you really look at my yard, I didn't buy anything that's
growing in my yard.
People brought it to me and donated it to me and gave it to me.
And I'm like, wow, this is this is like it started healing some really bad
hurts I had because I love those people.
Those people and I love for me.
Yeah, I mean, they professed and dying love for me, dude.
Nobody asked me where I went or if I was OK or I had like, you're talking
about two churches full of people because I preached at two different churches
and I attended one regularly.
You're talking about seven or eight hundred people that were in my life on a
daily basis that everybody went silent.
A handful of people asked me, where have you been?
I miss you.
The preacher stayed, my friend.
His mother stayed, my friend.
And I can name four other people and one of the girls when I released my book,
like I got in a place where I didn't want to talk about it and I lost so many
people because of what I learned and what I knew and how I felt about it.
That when I released that last book, I went to some of them and I said, look here,
I love you.
I don't ever want to hurt you with what I believe or talking about what I believe.
So I want you to know this may not be the book for you.
And it was found one of those girls said, I don't believe in God anymore.
I can hardly wait to get it.
You know, and I still have friends that are devout.
I have a girlfriend that's man.
Susan Arrowwood, shout out to Susan Arrowwood.
She loves me.
She's friends with me in places where I'm not nice.
She's friends with me in places where it
surprised me when she messes me somewhere.
And I was like, oh my God, you really love me.
She's like, yeah, I don't give a shit what you believe.
I love Darlene.
I don't care what Darlene believes.
Just like you don't care what I believe.
Right.
And she'll be sweet about it.
She'll be like, you know, I've been praying for you.
And I'm like, well, it's got to be been praying for you.
Yeah, you know what's funny?
I don't get upset by that.
A lot of atheists will get like butthurt about people saying they're going to pray
for you. Here's the thing, like my mom will do it, right?
My mom's still a believer and she'll go, right?
I've been praying for you and my grandbabies.
And I'm like, oh, mom, thank you.
The way I interpret that is mom cares about me and just hopes that everything goes
well for me. That's it. It's like saying, you know, I wish you luck.
You know, that kind of thing is the way I kind of look at it is that they really
care about you, even though I don't think it makes a difference.
The difference is it might help my mom psychologically or it might be a way
that she's telling me I love you.
But for me, I'm not like it doesn't make me offended.
It just shows me they care. That's all that.
I didn't take the atheist label because I've seen how like along the way,
it was like a dirty work, just like Christian's a dirty word for me now.
I'm a heathen. I've always been a heathen.
I'm always going to be a heathen.
My mother called us heathens when we were children.
And like the layman person doesn't even know what the hell
a heathen is unless they go look it up.
So I just think he then I always joke about, but I'm so serious.
Like I posted it just to see, you know, because people get real close minded
even when they don't believe stuff.
Like in your group, I posted that Godzilla was my God of choice.
And I got it, you know, people that know me, know me, but some of those people
didn't know me.
And then I posted another post behind that that said,
I'm just really curious why no one wants to talk about my God.
And I got a bunch of backlash on it.
So I took it down.
Tell us, what do you mean Godzilla is your God of choice?
Is this like carving your own path kind of thing?
Like no, it's just all right.
First of all, it's funny, funny as hell.
Like people are like, this is crazy.
She's off her rocket.
But the second part of it was, you know, I had a daughter in law going through
going alongside me that saw this stuff happen to me and saw me go through all
this pain and saw me ask all these questions.
And I would throw stuff out at her that I was learning.
I'm like, well, what do you think about this?
And what do you think about that?
So my grandson, Hunter Gostett, who I posted countless pictures of,
Hunter is obsessed with dinosaurs and Godzilla.
And he has autism.
He's pretty high on the scale.
So all the all the time he's been in my home,
like we're still strung out on dinosaurs.
And when he took a liking to Godzilla, man,
I remember when I was a kid, it made me miss Godzilla and TV went like it is now.
You can get reruns.
You're behind had to be in front of that TV at the time that show came on.
And they were subtitled when I was a kid.
I've seen this child four years old sit and watch the subtitle Godzilla movie.
And I'm like, so my daughter-in-law comes to me and she said,
I just want to throw something out to you.
And I'm like, OK, she said, think about it.
She said, Godzilla is the better God than the Christian God.
And I'm like, oh, I can't wait to hear this.
She said, well, think about it.
You know, there's yin and yang in the in the universe.
He he doesn't give a shit that the people want him to come help them.
He fucks up all the Tokyo when he does it.
But he represents a purpose and he resets the balance in the universe.
He doesn't kill or destroy his enemy either.
He comes in and makes them understand that they need to go by where they came from,
that they're out of order.
I was like, damn, that's Steve Steve.
He doesn't care that the people he's not concerned with the people.
He has a purpose in the universe to serve.
So studying energy and chasing your dreams and law manifestation.
We all have some kind of purpose to serve.
So it's like that's cool as hell.
I'm going to start telling people that Godzilla is my God,
because I love Hunter Gossett more than anybody in the face of this planet.
And he changed my life coming to live with me like I got grown kids.
This this child came to live with me non-verbal.
He didn't start speaking until two years ago.
He's eight years old now.
And one day he was fessin' at his mama like, you talk to me like this and
da-da-da-da-da and I was like, nanny doesn't do you like that?
Does she had her? And he says, no, nanny, you're perfect.
I love you.
So I had to go back in the room.
So that's why Godzilla is my God of choice, because it throws people off and
nobody wants to talk about it, just like I don't want to talk about Christianity.
But I just started looking at religions all across the board.
Like we all believe all kind of crazy stuff.
Like I have a Guanyin statue in my front yard and she's the goddess of mercy.
She's a Tibetan symbol.
She's cute. I just like her.
She's always barefoot and it says that the jewelry she wears belongs to other
royal people, that royal people just give her their jewelry to wear.
And she blesses farmers.
I didn't even know that.
I just ended up with it.
I didn't know that.
You know what I'm saying, right?
You would too.
Let me ask you this though.
In light of, I want to ask you this, this doesn't determine truth.
It just goes to show you the kind of characters that the people you around.
They swore they loved you up and down, right?
You had some struggles where there was that kind of disowning, if you will,
when you started speaking about how you were Christian.
Shining me.
What happened?
It broke my heart.
It broke my heart.
When I did see them, they treated me like something was wrong with me.
I have a girl that lives, she's a neighbor of mine.
And I went to just see my friend, right?
I never, I've never said to her there's no, I've never told her a damn thing,
I believe, OK, I just quit going to charts with her.
And while I was at her house, the entire time I'm there trying to visit with her,
she keeps saying to me, you can't tell me there's not a God.
You can't tell me there's not a God.
And I'm like, I never said that.
Did I say that to you?
I'm here trying to visit my friend and you're making it fucking weird.
And you don't have to worry about me coming to see you anymore,
because I wanted to go home and take a shower.
It broke my heart.
She's not my friend anymore.
This is someone like I have lots of stuff in my house.
She's given me.
I have lots of books that she gave me to write in.
I have lots of memories with this girl.
And her whole thing was you can't tell me there's not a God.
I never said there wasn't a God.
I never said shit about any of it.
I just quit going to charts with them.
Right. You know, it was bad.
And you were you were seeing problems with with what people love and that was the thing.
We get it. We know that the bugs love you, too.
Everybody loves you and love bugs.
The bugs are crazy in Alabama right now.
I could I had to stop talking about it because people were so angry with me.
I pick and it's really sad.
Because when I wrote my books,
I had to step back and go, you don't have to care what they think.
They're not seeing this.
If you don't tell your story, no one else is going to tell your story.
You have the right to say everything you think and feel about it.
And I didn't feel like that in real life and on social media.
Like my social media.
I go to Facebook jail every 30 days because people started 30 days every time
someone reports me for something and it all started with a video
that had Jesus in the title.
Now I got shit getting taken off my YouTube channel.
They're calling it hate speech.
It was a Christmas message with a prayer in it
that they said they removed it because the hate speech.
Like somebody got me and I've been flagged ever since.
Can't do business on social media because I end up in Facebook jail.
So, Tom,
my Facebook consists of a lot of Africans
that are friends with a fellow who he has like 30,000 followers.
And he loves me.
His name is Desi and Uma and he's a born atheist.
And he just he jokes about it.
Like he doesn't really even have a lot of I don't know how much knowledge he has
about like the historicity or miss or any that.
He just takes it from a place that it's funny and runs with it.
And I have a lot of people that have followed me because of that.
But like, I don't even get involved with it anymore.
I don't want to talk about it anymore.
And my girlfriend's like, well, why is that?
I'm like, you know, I found more beautiful things to do with my life and other
things to focus on. What are some of the things that you found
that have replaced religion in your life that give you happiness today?
Man, I have.
I work in my yard a lot.
Like I'm having a convalesce right now because I think I'm a beast.
I don't know how to stop.
Like I got two jobs.
I get up at four o'clock in the morning to go to one of those jobs.
I usually nap between those two jobs.
I'm a rock.
I go to town, I go to the, I go to the creek all the time with my girlfriend.
I have, I have, I have tennis elbow right this second because I think I'm indestructible
and I've been carrying huge ass buckets of rocks and I don't know how to be still
anymore, like, but it's beautiful.
It's like there's been times when those people weren't there.
Like it messed me up to be on my own.
Like at the first of the year, everything in my life changed.
I got divorced.
I got fired from my job.
There was a severance package.
I had an extra amount of days to find a place for me and my dog to live.
I can't take my dog just anywhere because he's unsocialized.
And then the kids said, well, mama, we don't want to live with you anymore.
So all these things happened at the beginning of the year that completely changed my life.
I've never been on my own.
I've always had children or siblings or strays or husbands.
I've never been on my own.
And that messed me up for a little while because I didn't have connections.
I didn't have church people anymore.
I didn't have people that wanted to come by and say, hey, are you OK?
We just want to come check on you.
And even the kids didn't come by for a long time and they didn't understand
why mama was losing her mind.
And I'm like, I've never been by myself, y'all.
I'm having to adjust to this.
And I feel like everybody left me over here to die.
It was bad.
It was bad.
And then I had some some frenemies.
Shame me all over Facebook.
So I got rid of those people.
Like I've been steadily having to just get rid of people to have peace of mind.
But the beautiful thing was, is all those times I was hurting,
I could come out here and stand in my yard and cry and talk to these stupid ass
plans and feel better like I would talk to the dog and feel better.
I'm trying to start doing some fiction writing again.
I just had a lady reach out to me about a girl that owns a studio.
She's like, don't you or sell your paintings?
I've already talked to this girl.
You go over there and take her some paintings.
And I've since become famous on Nextdoor.
And my next love folks love me.
Nextdoor is this app that all your neighbors are on within 20 miles of you.
And we have an eighty nine year old dishwasher at Red Lobster, who every time
I see him, I make him take a picture with me.
His name is Mr. Jack.
He worked at a gym for 42 years and he was a preacher for 17 years.
He spent at Red Lobster for 12 years and does not miss a shift.
He's eighty nine years old.
Wow.
Yeah. And he always says to me, Teresa, life is lovely.
So I make him take a picture with me every time I see him.
And I put it on Nextdoor and I put pictures of my yard on Nextdoor.
And people have been so forthcoming and sweet to me like I'm a people person.
I can't shut my life down and say, fuck people, they're terrible.
They suck. I don't want to do this anymore.
I can't do that because I have a heart for people.
I just don't have connections anymore.
You know, I don't know if you knew this, but my mom's name is Teresa.
Is it my godmother's name is everybody in Alabama calls me Mr.
Teresa, everybody at the hotel calls me Darlene because Terry's my best friend
and Terry works at the hotel and she calls me Darlene.
So everybody and it's confusing even to me.
And then my people from the streets call me Sparky and the people from the clubs
call me Sparky and I have a grandson that calls me Nanny Sparky because that was
supposed to be my grandmother's name because I'm like, I don't get to be Sparky anymore.
How can I be Sparky?
So we tried Nanny Sparky out on the dogs for a year before the oldest grandson came.
He's the only grandson that calls me that.
And then when my granddaughter Marley came along and called me Nanny,
like a little British kid, I was like, oh, my God, I can't make her call me Sparky, too.
Yeah.
So I've just found other things to do.
I mean, that's what I was going to ask you.
I was going to say, you know, in in kind of concluding this,
this is an amazing point.
You're on a journey and this is a fascinating thing.
You're figuring out life for once.
This is finally in your entire life.
You're finally waking up to this.
My question is where do you see like what if you're talking to someone else who's
been going through this or they're new to this deconversion and it radically does
disrupt their world, what would you recommend?
What kind of advice would you say right out the gate that they could try to do?
The process is still the process.
Everyone has to go through with it.
But it could have been like there's things that could have been better for you
during that process, probably that you look back at hindsight and you go, OK,
that would have made it easier.
What would you recommend?
I'm so blunt that I was doomed.
I'm watching a great deconstruction go on.
OK, like, yeah, like it's amazing.
All these pastors, I stayed friends with a lot of pastors because I love those people.
I don't I love them.
I love the friendship and love that they've shown me and I'm seeing this huge
deconstruction go on amongst these pastors.
My problem is I'm so in your face and to the point and I'm just going to tell it
like it is that I was not well received like there being some of them are being
so well received that I'll be honest, I'm jealous.
I wanted to be received like that every like we don't need anybody and we don't
need validation, but when you when you like you thrive amongst people,
you want to be received to some degree in a good manner.
So I always just tell people, you know, what you believe is your own business.
I tell people all the time now what I believe it's not any of your damn business
because I didn't come here to argue with you.
I don't talk religion or politics.
Now, if you want to talk about anything else in the world, we can discuss that.
And if you're going through this process, it's OK.
It's not the end of the world.
I believe there are millions of gods.
Not one of them has ever showed up and said, here I am to save the day.
You know what I'm saying?
And I Christianity is it's an abuse of relationship.
It's like, OK, you're not good enough.
You're never going to be good enough.
But I'm going to help you out and save you.
But you just remember, if you don't love me, there's hell to pay.
That's like a woman being in a relationship with a man that beats her.
Because he says to all these sweet, beautiful things to her to make her fall
in love with him. And then he hits her and she's shocked.
And he has a good reason for why he hits her.
And then he cries and moans and groans and says, oh, I'll never do it again.
He's going to hit her again.
And she stays on the premise of that that little love she had to begin with.
And then it becomes, you know, I've never been free.
I've never been free.
This first time in my life, I've never been free.
I've had a dude pulling in the driveway when one was pulling out like I had a
fella give me his number the other day and he's got a girlfriend.
I'm like, what?
Get a clue, dude.
That's why you're having problems.
You can't give your number to another woman when you're already seeing a woman.
Like guys are crazy.
I'm not that girl.
I've been celebrating almost two years and this stuff is special.
Hello.
You can't just step to me like that.
You know what I'm saying?
Like it's so ridiculous.
Like I've had people, I just shoot people down.
My freedom and my peace of mind is so much more important to me than some do.
I can take myself to dinner.
Yeah, I can be loyal to myself.
I've never been free from anything ever.
Like I'm actually free for the first time in my life from everything.
It's huge.
It's huge.
You're living in the moment now and before it was always
the future, the afterlife, this, that and you're now taking it all in and it's
overwhelming what you miss for so long.
You're really very appreciative.
Yeah, terrible to be taught to be of the ends coming.
It's no damn end coming unless you're an idiot and you don't wear your seat belt
and you're crashing into a truck because you didn't stop at a red light.
I mean, it's so it's.
I have great disdain for it.
OK, I just can't even I know Venom drips off my lips talking about it.
And I don't mean to be that way, but it's that ridiculous.
Like you're led to the end and everybody is the sign of the times.
And then they start throwing all the scripture out.
I'm like, would you please just stop?
Yeah, just stop.
Your imaginary friend ain't going to do shit about it.
He didn't help any of us either.
Stop and read another book once in a while.
So, Darlene, final question I have is this.
Where do you see yourself in the coming years since you live in the moment now?
What what do you want to make of yourself?
What do you want to do with yourself now that you have freedom?
No one owns you but you.
But what do you want to do?
Whoever grows the most food wins.
Look around at this world that we live in.
I don't watch TV.
I don't listen to the news.
I don't care what people talk about on social media.
If I can't tell you something good, I don't want to talk about it.
But when they started burning and looking grocery stores and then you see folks
talking about supply and demand, my whole motto in life is whoever grows
the most food wins and I can I'm facing the challenge.
I'm going to face the challenge and I want to put up the cute little pictures
that say which harvest this is for me and I want people to come to my sunflower fields
and take pictures of them to just be like, damn, who would have ever imagined
that she would do this?
It's important.
We all need to be learning to grow food in this world that we live in.
It doesn't matter how much.
It doesn't matter.
Wow.
Like I did the whole conspiracy crap 10 years ago.
I'm not doing all that.
I told everybody that everybody knew I was crazy.
It's OK to just grow food and learn to be self-sufficient.
It's really important in the world we live in now.
Thank you so much.
Your neighbors, I want to feed my neighbors.
I want you to come to my house to me feed it.
Watermelons, I grew and be like, dude, look what I grew, man.
You want to eat some?
Absolutely, maybe something to grow some weed and be like, hey, dude,
look what I grew, you want to smoke some?
I don't smoke anymore, but I know some people who would be happy to do it.
Yeah, but I hear you.
There's there are other things in life besides being focused on this crazy
ass book and all these religions.
I just don't agree with you.
I come along to make smart ass comments and no one likes me for it.
I'm OK with that.
I'm like, I'm like, you can't put me out.
I'm a family no matter what.
You know, I love you no matter what.
I want everyone who's watched this far.
Honestly, go get the books, say it again.
The adventures of Sparky Madness and how she met Captain Save a Ho.
The Chronicles of a Saint heathen.
You see what had happened was and calm down.
It's not that serious.
Seriously, go check out her three works.
They're all in the description.
I've got them in the Myth Vision recommended books list so you guys can check it
out and find it there.
Yeah, and then also we have the patrons.
If you guys want to join that, you can join that.
Get early access to everything I do here.
It helps us out and growing.
But seriously, everybody, this is my friend, Darlene, and there is so much more.
She hasn't and can't go into right now, but maybe down the road.
You guys can hear the addictive lifestyle that I honestly think is catered
by these kind of worldviews.
And then she's made it out of it.
She's not stuck in that vicious cycle.
There's so much more you don't know about her, but she's truly a glowing angel.
And trust me, she was a fallen angel at one point.
I can promise you that.
And Darlene, thank you so much.
I really do love you.
Let's do this again.
Thank you.
I can hardly wait.
Yes, and don't forget, we are methazard.
Thank you so much for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for being with us today, and thank you for
