Jay the comedian is going to tell you his story about the Jehovah's Witnesses and his experience leaving the cult
Families all that crazy stuff. I hope you stay tuned
Consider becoming a patron of myth-fishing podcast to help me grow in my endeavors and grow this channel
Also, you could do a one-time donation if you're interested at my PayPal or cash app down in the description. Love you guys
You
We are
Myth vision welcome back to myth vision podcast your host Derek Lambert guys
I tell you all the time of my past coming out of Christian
Denominations and various cults and things like that. I mean I was in some I guess you could say some deep stuff, man
I was in there speaking in tongues thinking I was prophesying
Potentially able to heal people all of these things as well as going to a house church
That claimed to have these special abilities and stuff, but that's not what we're here for today
The reason why we're here is actually to talk to a man named Jay
Jay the comedian is what he goes by and he's an ex Jehovah's Witness who was also in a cult
So yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, so I guess Jay
Without starting us off with a joke because I know you could
You could
Let's get into some serious stuff and then get into what you've found to be therapeutic and how you found yourself
How you found who you really were?
Were you born into the Jehovah's Witnesses? What happened? Yeah? Yeah, so so I was born into the organization and
I just
It was before the internet, you know stuff like that and the ability to research and do cool stuff like that
So my entire life ever since I was born all the way up until I was 28
I was Jehovah's Witness. The problem was was that I wasn't very good at it and
when you're a Jehovah's Witness, right and
When you're inside
Everybody has to put on this kind of preside like they have to I'm happy all the time, you know
I feel good. Everything's great. Anything that they put out. They love like oh, we got this new book coming out
What do you think about it? Everybody starts clapping off and I would always just sit there like wow everything sucks all of this sucks
Why am I the only one who thinks this sucks?
You know what I mean? Wow, I speak all my life feeling like I was it was something wrong with me
You know what I mean because I didn't I didn't feel that happiness. I didn't feel that
That image that they were putting out that everybody else would talk about and how they felt
You know what I mean? So imagine feeling that way for 28 years
Wow, and when you leave when you finally do like wake up and you you start to get out of it
You start to like one of the things I found necessary like once you leave a high-control group like that
It's to find out exactly what they did to you. You need to find out how they
Were able to do the things they do and how they're successful at continuing to do it because once you can nail down
How they did it you can figure out what's wrong and then you can fix it
You know what I mean? So it was just one of those things and after spending so much time there and after finally being able to get away and
Pretty much like I'm it's I'm I got my little things that I'm still working on like I'm probably gonna never completely get over it
It was so damaging, but
To to be able to get out and be able to you know have a family and raise a family
Without having to be inside the organization. That's a major W
Major
Wow, not not major JW. Just a major. Okay. Yeah
Look, I gotta ask I mean obviously you're born into this and that leads me to the next question
What about your family? I mean, what happened to your mom? What happened to your dad like?
So my father he passed away
2010
Yeah, I want to say 2009 2010 he passed away my mother. She's still deeply into it. I have 11 brothers and sisters
Half in half out
But the ones who are in they they accept me
They know the
Because for one with the weird Jehovah Witness rules, right?
As long as you weren't this this fellowship
They could find a way to you know be okay with you, you know
But if you were this fellowship, then it's like no we can't have nothing to do with you
It's the dumbest thing because I know people who are actively doing terrible and bad things
But because they're not this fellowship
It's all good, you know man, but they will they will shut and turn away their own kid
And accept this other person just because they're not this fellowship
But they're kid because their kid is this fellowship. They can't have nothing to do with them
so
it's just it's my family has
Been able to accept me and like I'm not getting shunmed actively by anybody right now
And they just know not to like bring it up with me because I will ask questions
I try not to like push nothing down a throat or try to get them to turn around or anything like that
I will have a conversation with them
though if they try to ask me questions and and those conversations usually don't go so well, so
I have the same man. I got to say that I relate to what you're saying
I always felt like I didn't belong to any particular like I couldn't fit quite in
In many places that I went to my whole life and uh, it led me into addiction
It led me into a lot of tough stuff in my life that I had to go through
To find myself to find out who I was and that that's a human being. I'm not a robot
You can't you know, make me be something I won't be happy if I can't just be who I am and enjoy who I am
so
I got to ask you in your experience in
um, the organization
Did you pioneer one question and also what are some of the teachings that you would say, you know, what you
had to learn to unlearn as you left
well, um
Pioneer, absolutely not. I hate it field service. I from the moment we started doing it. I'm talking about
I fake rang people doorbells
I uh
Yeah, I was like, no, I do not like being a Jehovah Witness. I did not like it
I did like field service. It was always Saturday mornings
When the best cartoons were on that I had to go and I remember that
And then when I got older in life
It was Saturday mornings and Friday nights is when we could finally kind of let out and have fun
And nobody wants to wake up early on Saturday. You want to kind of sleep in, you know
So me and field service did not get along. I did it because
My parents kind of forced me to to whereas it's like if you want to have fun later
You need to do this, right? So I had to do it as much as possible. But you're absolutely pioneer like anything that was above
like basic
Jehovah Witness needs I I wasn't trying to do I wasn't trying to go above and beyond so
uh
Damn, that was that was uh, that was something like that but
As far as they teachings, I just remember nothing making sense
You know, like I've always been the type of person to whereas
Things have to make sense to me for me to like follow along
Um, I remember always looking at math and whatnot and being like man
I never learned this I never understand that and it wasn't until I learned how to work the problem out that I could accept it
Like, you know, but before then I was just like this is dumb. What that ain't even a number
That's a letter like how could that be a man problem?
But then I learned how to do it and then learn how to work and then I accepted it
With the Jehovah Witnesses
It was so many things that I just could not accept like the fact that if somebody no longer wanted to be a Jehovah Witness
They couldn't they couldn't just do that. They lose the entire family. They lose everybody
So you couldn't just leave some just like how does that that doesn't make sense because if somebody
left
And they have a one-on-one relationship with god
What does other people got to do with a one-on-one relationship with god? You know, right?
Like that makes no sense to me and then
when they would say stuff like
uh
The universe it had to be
Um created because if you put a watch in a box and you shake a box
No matter how long you shake the box though watch never come out fully assembled, you know what I mean
But I'm like what the you know the watch ain't made of biological material
That's a whole nother discussion. Yeah, that's it is
But but it's little things like that
That didn't make sense to me the funny thing the evolution didn't make sense to me for a long time
Bro, I love that you're bringing this up. By the way, I I didn't tell him to do it. So don't shoot the messenger, baby
Evolution for the longest time
I thought in my head was like, you know, there's no way to recreate a hundred years like when it comes to science
Most things in science are done because you can replicate it, you know
Like the reason that this science exists and the reason that you can stand on top of the evidence is because the evidence can be replicated, right?
I can't replicate a hundred million years or whatever it is
The evolution would take to make something happen. So I was in the point of all right, you can't really convince me of evolution
But then I learned about the three different sciences that they use to prove evolution and it made sense
I'm still like, all right. I'm not completely like, okay
That's what happened, but I could see why they would believe it, you know
Yeah, I think it's the most plausible explanation for what we have. I mean, don't get me wrong
I I understand there might be like hesitations to buy everything like I watched a documentary last night about the oldest supposed known
species of
By I can't remember when you stand on two feet. There's a technical scientific term for species that stands on only two feet not four
And you know gorillas monkeys chimpanzees they all use they're on their their feet and arms their arms
No, no, it's by pop. I can't even think of the term. But anyway, I don't know
um
The evidence for that species is pretty scant unless I see the evidence like they played out and they show me all the ins and outs
There might be a good reason they're jumping to that conclusion. My point is I feel what you're saying like
um, there were too many um
There were too many unanswered questions. There's too much stuff that didn't make sense and then also
You knew you were raised in it. You knew from the personalities and hey, all right church is over
Getting to know how these people aren't you know what not to say and what to say around these people
There are no no's and stuff and that's how I was in my like the cults. I was involved in
Um, you knew not to pressure too hard or to really test and be doubtful
They would teach you not to do those things. Those are actually bad things
today
Isn't it healthy to like not know now?
You know to have questions and to be doubtful and
It's healthy and and a funny part about it is that if you believe in god if you're a god worshiper, right?
um
It's so anti god to not question things
It is so anti
Spirituality to not question things like because as human beings
We have an innate ability to just want to just seek knowledge and be happy once we learn something
Once we figure out something once you
Like if you took a puzzle thousand piece puzzle and you put it all together
How do you feel once it's all done you feel proud you feel like you'll accomplish something, right?
Humans have that inside of them. That's why we're always trying to get better. That's why we're always pushing
the human race forward in technology science
Medicine all these things and all these accomplishments. We're always striving to keep moving forward
You don't get that by not asking questions
If things don't make sense
If you sit there like well, you know, you just let go and let god, you know, they don't know
That's not what we that's if you believe in god and you believe we were designed. We weren't designed to do that
We're designed to ask questions and find out answers
And I remember when I first started asking questions in the jojoba witness organization
Um, are you familiar with what an apostate is? Yes. Okay, so
anybody who speaks negatively of the organization is considered an apostate now
I was not at the time
listening to anything that was quote-unquote apostate material
I was just hearing certain things because I remember like learning
Uh, that most of the things that took place in uh, the bible took place in africa
or in the, you know, african continent or whatever, so
I was like, we're all of black people
Like there's not a single bible character that's black not one
And why are they names like paul and adam and like like those are not no
Like african, there's not a muhammad or ugabe or nothing hundred straight just american names, huh?
but
I had this entire like back and forth
Well, I didn't what it didn't make sense to me and I would ask them like uh, in the bible
We'll say jesus had skin of brawn and hair wool
Sounds like a brother
See the revelation and stuff. Yeah when they described them. So i'm just like
That sounds like a brother. So I was asking the elders and they're like, well, have you been looking at my apostate material?
No, I'm just asking questions. Let's let's answer the question and and I never got my question answered
I was I was told more to just is it important like, you know, that's not that's not really what you know
This is about I'm like, I mean, I mean, I guess because y'all
put so much emphasis on like details and being so detailed even to the point where as
You want people to give up their life refusing blood transfusions
Because you're so detail oriented
Well, why aren't we looking at this detail this little particular detail right here because it's kind of important to me
I would like to see somebody in the bible. That's black, you know, like that would be kind of cool. But uh
Those are the questions I asked and I kept being questioned
If I was reading apostate material or looking at apostate material
And that kind of made me look at it because I'm like if they're if they're out there asking good questions and giving good answers
I'm missing out
That is interesting because I've actually asked and this kind of leads into something
I don't want to get caught up in it too long
But I did ask Lloyd Evans and I believe I asked fifth if in his experience
It seemed there was some racism involved in the organization and he said they both said
They've done a good job of trying to
make the organization
a multicultural type thing where everyone is somewhat equal but
Um, but it wasn't always that way and then also when you go to the higher ranks
They finally have a brother who's in the actual top ranks. Yeah
Yeah, and I mean that's good. Don't get me wrong
Anything in the right direction can be good
But is it really good because is that just an influence to draw in more african americans or people who are of dark color
Into this organization, which is going to get them trapped. So
I don't know the motives, but nonetheless, do you feel there were some racist, uh
Things or would it be more of an individual thing from your experience?
I'm gonna
Like because I've thought a lot about this. Um
In in in an effort to be fair which they say apostates can't be fair
In an effort to take jay with a grain of salt. No, I'm just kidding. All right, all right
But let's be fair. They had some stuff that they put out
Way back when the majority of america felt that way where they said that um black people
They felt like were made to be servants
Now they said this a long time ago and they felt like black people were the most happy when they were servants
Like they were created and they're happy to be servants, right?
Now this was a old old old old old book somewhere. I want to say 1930 something like that, right?
At the time, that's what people thought
Now it's bad, but at the same time I understand why they would say that
Yeah, all of society kind of there was like a mainstream society thing. So
Exactly it just points out that they're not god
Like they're not led by god. Obviously they're just led by whatever's going on at the times and
Going forward. I would like to say that they're doing this because they actually like, you know
Don't have any color barriers and they just you know, they just want to they're progressive, right?
But I don't think that's what it is if I'm being completely honest
What they sell they sell hope and they sell
Better things to come, you know
It's hard to sell hope and better things to come to people who are doing okay in life
You know what I mean? Yeah, like to go to a rich person and be like, hey things are getting better, man
He's like he on this jet ski like I'm going pretty good right now
But when you go to some of the
uh lower
Economies in America or one of some of the neighborhoods where it's like it's a lot of crime and poverty and things like that
The jojova witness message is gold in those areas. Yeah, you know what I mean? So
Like the black and brown community has historically
um
been
Left out when it comes to like financial advancements and you know things like that so
They kind of if they want to still have a future and still progress
They have no choice but to work with people like us. You know what I mean?
Because a large amount of people
A large amount of black people are still struggling and they get that little hope from the jojova witnesses
The hope of seeing loved ones again the hope of you know being a spiritual person and having god look at them
That sells good to people who are struggling who are going through a hard time in life
So I would like to say yeah, they just like black people, but you know black people is actually
A target. It's a good target form. You know, right because I'll tell you this
I lived in every part of chicago when I lived in a really really good part of chicago
I saw almost all white people. I barely saw any jojova witnesses
But when I lived in the worst part of chicago
Well, I grew up at I saw jojova witnesses every single weekend
Hmm every single weekend. They were on it. So I mean
It's kind of weird you say that man because the house I had about a
Mile away when I years ago. I lived in for about 10 years. I always had
A like a group of jojova's witnesses come up almost every saturday, you know, I was always polite to them
But I know they're just probably there. I throw them a little bit of change, you know, whatever for the little
Magazine and then they'd be on the way. I didn't really care to sit and talk with them
Sometimes I would sometimes I wouldn't but this house where I'm at now
Which is my parents house, which is in a better upscale type of neighborhood
I never see jojova's witnesses come into this neighborhood
I think they're just used to the people saying get out of my way like you're talking about
Um, another thing about the whole organization thing and maybe you could just you know comment on this if you would
Um, you mentioned. Yeah, this kick. How can this be of god?
When they went with the flow of society
The same way the bible does this in my opinion. I'm not trying to knock people but nonetheless
I do deep research into the biblical account here and in the Hebrew bible as well as the new new testament
It is never condemned
Slavery is condoned. It's not necessarily
Uh, it's not something that's like, yes, everyone go get a slave. No, but it's also not like
Slavery's bad and you should not own another human being. No
Slaves be good to your masters and masters be good to your slaves. Jesus said these things paul says these things
It's like, you know, what the heck man? You didn't know that that was a bad thing. You didn't know to say
Do not own another human being. It's morally wrong to own people
Uh, no, uh, when they said slavery, they didn't mean what you think slavery means
That's the cop out. You know what i'm saying? So, uh, anyway, did you want to comment on that?
I mean, you you hit the nail on the head like the
If anything at this point now that they are constantly trying to make the bible fit in
You know what I mean?
Like i've the bible haven't changed the stuff in the bible haven't changed
The people understanding of the bible constantly changes
Especially depending on where you stand morally, you know what I mean?
Like because even right now, um, like it's it's no black and white about it homosexuality
In the bible is is bad like it's bad, but I've seen people say
Well, when in the actual meaning they didn't mean homosexuality. They meant like pedophiles
And I'm just like, why am I just hearing this in 2021? You know, like
This this should have been put out there, but it and it just says like, um, like the whole, um
Slavery thing now is oh, it was just you know, um, that's how they
Like barred back then they didn't really have money. So you you do slaves and what I'm like
But they said you could beat a man as long as he don't die within two days
You know, they said slaves, um, like
Respect your master the same way you respect god or something like that
And they said like, uh, even whether he's good or whether he's cruel
You still are supposed to be in his service. You know what I mean?
Like the bible says crazy stuff like this
Happy as the man who bashes a baby against the rock
Yeah, and I think that was in a particular even if it was enemies of israel at the time
Man, jeez. Come on. You know what I mean? Like even today
We have laws I think that are better than the ones you find in this book
And some of those for example when my dad being a retired green brain the special forces
You know, he was in the combat zones down in afghanistan iraq all night
man when they see children
They don't aim at the kids because they know that those kids might be children of the enemy
They don't try to I'm not gonna say there aren't soldiers out there that have went off the deep end
But it is never instructed in
Condone in fact, you'll come back to the united states and stand trial. Yeah for for that kind of stuff during war
Even in war we have better rules. So, um, I just I just figured I'd say
Now I want to move forward if that's okay. I want to ask you something interesting
I think would be important because you didn't quite agree
You always had questions. You you didn't quite just drink the kool-aid and accept everything that they were saying
and um, I I kind of did in my own experience, but what was
church life when you went to the hall and uh, you came to kingdom hall and you come back home was church life different
Then your home life when you came home was mama a different person was daddy a different person
Was it like man? This is real life and then we go back. Hey, what's up uncle bob everything's good?
Yeah, we're doing good and then really you know what i'm saying like it's
They're faking it to make it sometimes to kind of look good in church
And did that kind of like did you learn from that?
Is that you know what i'm saying? You get what i'm talking about. Well, let me let me qualify it a little bit
Okay, uh, I did believe a lot of it. I believe that johova was god
I believe that the governor body was actually looking out for us
I felt like I was just a bad person like I felt like
Uh, uh, it was something wrong with me. You know what I mean? I believe this stuff
The stuff that didn't make sense to me. I highly questioned and I didn't accept those things
but
I believed in johova. I believe in you know the governor body stuff like that. I believe that now as far as like
How I was at the hall and how I was at home
It was something called a double uh double life
And I had my own little double life squad and people that were like me who behaved one way at the hall and behaved differently
With like was free. That's what we did, you know, and we all we all kind of ran together and whatnot. Now my parents
Yeah, it was crazy. Like that'd be at home. They'll be arguing getting into it. But as soon as they get to the kingdom hall
Oh, hey brother. Hey
That's it good, right? I remember like I could almost get away with murder at the kingdom hall
But I knew at home I'd had to pay for
So it was it was that but I had to learn because I thought like it was only my family that was doing that fake stuff
But after like hanging out with other people and spending the night at certain people's house, I would see
That's just what it was. Everybody put up. They um, you know, they're fake personality at the kingdom hall
and when they got home
They were the genuine crazy self and I've heard some crazy stories
But it not just crazy stories like some stuff that's happened in even in my family
Like my father wasn't the greatest person in the world, you know what I mean?
And it was some things that my family struggled with and went through
Uh bad decisions that was made and just just bad things that that people would do to each other and
And it left a bad taste in my mouth
But at the same time whenever
Whenever somebody would do something bad inside the Jehovah's Witness organization, they would quickly just be like, oh, we just we're sinful
You know, we're imperfect humans, you know what I mean?
And that's that was they cop out every single time. But but yeah, everybody has that double personality, man
No, I just ask because I think a lot of times that can uh
Help us see reality, you know, and uh, I bet you almost everybody who goes to that church
Has the same thing and they come to the organization and
I'm better than you in a way or you know what I mean? Like I haven't done anything wrong
Uh, but you know, how does I had that struggle internally? Like you said, I believed I
On the next level believed and sometimes when I would do really good in life. I was like, okay. This is good
I'm I am his child. I have his spirit blah blah blah
Then when I would find myself
Veering off naturally in life making mistakes whether it be chasing girls drinking too much alcohol bomb fires partying with the boys
To that dabbling with things I shouldn't be dabbling with
Hey, you know and on and on and you know, I come back and get straight and narrow boom come back straight narrow
I would question
You know like hold on like
Am I really yours? You're supposed to be guiding me with your spirit and for whatever reason I just keep not being able to line my life up
With this perfect. I'm going to church every Sunday type of lifestyle. I just couldn't
I couldn't fit my life to line up with that and it sounds to me you did have a similar somewhat
Experience if that you're not thinking absolutely. That's exactly the way it was
But then something I learned like like like I said earlier you need to learn every you need to learn how they attack you because
one thing that I learned
In order for the Jehovah Witnesses to be successful in their attack
they have to keep you in a certain state of
You haven't done enough
Or you can never do enough, you know like there is no accomplishing anything inside the organization because even when you think you've accomplished something
There's more you can do
You know what I mean and and with that type of process
mentally
You always feel like you're working and you're busy and if you always are working and you're always busy
What you never do really is have free time to actually sit down and diagnose what's going on around you
Like figure out. Am I really happy? Am I really doing something that?
uh beneficial to myself and my children and my future and stuff like that like if you're not
Actually taking the time to realize what's going on around you
um
It plays right into their hands because you're going to end up just
Doing the same thing you always do and this is the thing when it comes to the Jehovah Witnesses
When you go to the kingdom hall and stuff like that
You're not really learning nothing new if you've been in there a while after about
A couple like a decade or something like that
You don't learn anything new anymore
It's just a repeat a repeat a repeat over over and over again
And that's done because that's how you brainwash somebody
You get them to accept something and then you repeat it to them over and over and over again
After a certain point when somebody says something you're like, I've been hearing this all my life. You you're definitely wrong
I've heard this a thousand times in my life. It's there's no way you could be right, you know
And and that's that's how the brainwashing works
So just after being in is so long and just learning how they attack you and learning that
You know, they they do this to make sure you don't build up a future
It's all done so you can't leave
You know, it's all done to keep you in and hopefully get your children and get your children's children
And and that's what it's all about
Um, how's your relationship with your mom?
Um, I just called it a day. We have a relationship to our as
I do not talk to her about spiritual things
But you but you do connect with your mom like you no matter what your mom still
Loves you like that kind of you not mom is gonna love you no matter what I'm a mama's boy, right?
Like I am a mama's boy
But your mom and you no matter what it's there, right?
Even if I got this fellowship, she would cry. She would be hurt and she wouldn't
She wouldn't reach out to me. She wouldn't touch me. You know, I'm saying like she wouldn't have anything to do with me
I know that and but it would hurt her. Yeah, she would be hurt by that. She would be really really hurt by that
but I also know
that um
The reason she would do it is because she she thinks she's doing the right thing
You know, that's the entire thing behind the Jehovah Witness organization
It's about controlling people and getting them to believe
That even though it sounds insane and it makes no sense at all that they're doing the right thing
So I wouldn't even be mad at her if that ever happened or whatever
I would understand why she's doing it. It would just suck
But they believe that they're doing the right thing. So it's not really even about like them not loving their kids
Or anything like this. It's not that at all. It's about
Them being completely fooled, you know, they drunk the Kool-Aid
They're 100%
Into this organization and it's and the organization is it's not doing anything beneficial to them
You know, it's just a bunch of tactics to to keep people in line and keep people in check
So but my my relationship with her right now is very good. We do not talk about spiritual stuff every 90
And she'll try to she'll try to ask me a question too
But after I give her a couple explanations, she's like, all right, all right, that's enough
Yeah, my mom's the same way. Oh my gosh, bro. We got some of that
um
How long ago was it that you you left the organization?
Um, I left when I was 28 years old. I'm 38 now for 10 years. Okay
Awesome. Okay. Well, that's awesome. So what's life like now man compared to what it was then? Um
Life is
It's hard. Um
But it's it's a different kind of heart, you know, it's like anytime you're a live period you're in a
A competition with everybody else, you know what I mean? Like if you want to be successful
You want to leave something great for your kids and you want to leave a certain?
Like legacy or whatever it takes energy it takes like, you know energy it takes
A certain level of discipline and things like that to accomplish and
My problem is like all those things that you learn you little I didn't learn those things, you know
So it's a life to where as I have to kind of learn stuff that I should have mastered when I was a teenager
But at the same time I have the freedom of knowing that I'm free, you know, I have the freedom of
Enjoying Christmas and birthdays like everything is just that much more sweeter because I couldn't do it before
And even though when I first left I still was kind of like
Kind of feel bad about it because I went so long without doing it now that I'm able to completely just immerse myself in it
Oh, it feels so good
It feel real good. So so life it's it's a good I will describe it as a good struggle
It's it's it's one of those struggles to where as you actually get rewarded for it now
Remember earlier I was saying that you could never do is do enough as Jehovah Witness
You can never accomplish anything
Now when you accomplish something you get rewarded now they give you a degree
Now you get the keys to a new house now you become a doctor now you become a lawyer
You know what I mean? Like it actually pays off now the struggle, you know what I mean?
I could see a governing body member stumble across this video, right
And trying to interpret what you just said and say something like this
Oh, you've received your reward. Yeah, this reward now
But the reward, you know like you see I'm talking about they're gonna turn it around and talk about the but but
But they may not receive the reward right now as Jehovah's Witnesses
But they will receive that reward which you won't receive which is that eternal life. You see what I'm trying to get at
But it's all this wishful thinking
It keeps you stuck in this in this slave mentality in your head
Um, but I have to I have to crack it
We got to crack the joke here because you go by Jay the comedian and
You know looking back and you can see a bunch of Jehovah's Witnesses
It's sad man
Some of the stuff you can see you can literally start crying and get emotional and depressed over
At how sad it is and you know, they say good laugh can take it a long way
You know you're a comedian now you do funny stuff like tell me more about who you are what you do what you enjoy doing
And how does that help with where you've been at? You know what I mean? Well, something I've learned uh
a while ago is
No matter what you've been through in life
You can think of the biggest like most horrible thing you've ever been through
At the point where you're able to laugh at it
When you're finally able to laugh at something
You're over it
That's when you know you're over it, you know
And and and there's some stuff out there. That's like you you may never find it funny
But one day you're gonna be like
Wow, I can't believe that happened, you know
That's when you're over it and that's how I always looked at like uh comedy because I remember for a long time
Especially when I first left I was so angry. I was so angry all the time. You know what I mean?
And when I talk to people now because I've been fortunate enough to help a lot of people
Wake up from the organization
and
One of the things that people tell me was that when somebody leaves the organization
The you know, they're told like oh, you know postates. They're they're evil and they're angry all the time and they're mad
They you know, I mean, that's not me though because I'm actually happy. You know what I mean?
Like to actually see somebody happy
Actually see somebody enjoying life and bringing a comical view to something that's so crazy
It helps more people that way and it makes it easier to hear the message that I'm putting out to people who may not understand it
you know, so
I could reach more people through my comedy and the people who have been through something traumatic
It breaks that shell a little bit. It helps them
Get that much closer to overcoming it. You know what I mean? Like if I can get one giggle up out of them
That that's better than you know, like because I'm sure there's gonna be a lot of crying involved whenever
Whenever you leave a high control group, you know what I mean? Yeah
So if I could get them to laugh or something like that that that's a big accomplishment to me
And I feel like I've I've helped them a lot if I could just get that up out of them
But as far as comedy comedy is just something that
I've always
It's funny. I used to get in trouble at the kingdom hall because I always had like an inappropriate like
Dave Chappelle
Yeah
Exactly like a real inappropriate sense of humor. So if somebody would say, you know, how they had those
Uh, those jokes to where they'd be like, that's what she said or something like that. Yeah
The thing is is that
People around me know I had the sense of humor and I couldn't really contain it
So I remember one day, uh, this is a true story, by the way
um, this sister
This thing sisters can't really picture the congregation
So when they have their little parts, they can only talk to each other in the congregation lesson
And the sister was on the stage and she was like, yeah, you know the other day I was driving and uh, you know, my neck hurts now because
the car
Front of me stopped so I had to stop and then this big big hard truck just hit me from the back
And they're just like, oh man, and I've never been hit from the back like that and I just said
That's all I did. I was like
And then several people around me
They kind of looked at me and they was just like holding back their laughter because they knew exactly
Like it was so funny to me
And that was my first reaction. So I was getting troubled
But not being able to contain my very immature sense of humor and it hasn't gotten any better since I grew up
It's all right
No, that's funny, dude. That's hilarious. Yeah
Oh my gosh
And I'll tell another story about this old lady in my kingdom hall, you know, she was elderly
So she would just like fall asleep in the hall and she would be completely asleep. I'm talking about snoring
Head back mouth open and I couldn't take it. It was too funny
It was too funny. So I used to get in trouble for laughing at her
and yeah, man
You know what so get tell us where do you do your comedy?
Plug yourself. Where do you do this stuff at? I want everybody who's extra hovis witnesses watching this right now
You guys are still a family
I really see it every extra hovis witness that watches this material and all the material out there
From all of the top dogs to the small
um
You guys stick together still and so I love that about you guys you all show that bond
You've been through the same trauma and you've came out alive. And so
Jay, where can they find you?
You know
Where can they come and support you in some way?
Well, um, you can you can check out my youtube channel, which is uh jade the comedian youtube.com backslash jade the comedian
If you put it in just put in xjw jade the comedian bunch any of my videos come up
On instagram. It's jade the comedian one
Uh, I have another youtube channel. That's that's less xjw stuff and more just me and it's called jade's comedy corner
um, so i'm on there, um
When I do perform because coviet 19 I haven't you know
Uh, uh group. Yeah a group of xjw's
Um, we we have like a little sunday show that we do we've been we did it once and we're still trying to like perfect it
But we're gonna do more uh sunday comedy shows those you gotta just kind of follow me on my other things to find out about because
We got bomb last time people got into the zoom and they were just
crazy they were going crazy. So, um
We're gonna uh, we're gonna do little comedy shows like that and when everything comes back when things open back up
in chicago, that's why I perform um
My comedies and stuff like that and it's not really a single one place that I go to
I just hit up different open mics and stuff like that. So I am actually right now working on my one hour comedy special
So once I get that up and running like I say if people follow me on my other social media
They'll be able to check that out. So, um, so yeah, man people if you want to check me out
If you find me on youtube you find everything because all my stuff is on there
So it's jade the comedian on youtube you'll find me on there
Well, everything's down in the description you guys you can hit those links make sure you go check them out
I just wanted you to you know plug let them know where you're at and what you're doing and how they can come and support you
And get a laugh, you know, I'm sure they could use one. We all can use one
um, if you're talking to
Someone right now. Let's let's just say
There's a person sitting on the fence. They're they're they're scared because it is scary. Let's let's be honest
It's very very scary. Not only that there's an organization and you're going to let people down
You feel like you're letting god down. You feel like you're letting
The most important thing that you were raised to think is most important
You're about to let that down
What words of encouragement or what could you say jade to that person?
um, that's
sitting on a fence and they're kind of
Wondering if there is life on the outside and there is a a sunny day a shining light if there's happiness there
What would you say to them?
Well, if they're on the fence that means that at some point
Um, something doesn't feel right to them. Something doesn't seem right to them
So I would
Ask them to look at things from a logical standpoint if you believe in god
And you believe that, you know, you may upset god you have to actually think about what that would mean
Like because god would want you to be happy. Are you happy?
God would want you
to
Question things that you feel aren't right. Are you getting in trouble for questioning things?
You know what I mean?
Like you have to actually look at the way things would be if god actually wanted you to do those things
So if you're sitting there and you're wondering if you're doing the right thing
Just think about how somebody would feel if they weren't able to see their kid because they got this fellowship for years
And then one day they just said you know, I don't care. I'm gonna go see my kid
Would that be a thing that god would not want?
Would you see god being angry at that or would you see two people who love each other?
Hugging each other crying and being so happy to be back in each other's lives
You know what I mean? Like it sounds like what they would be doing is probably viewing god from the jw perspective
So yeah, it obviously tells me that what you're actually asking them to do in a sense is
You know
Not view god the way that they've been taught to view it. Don't look at god through a book
Look at god as an internal experience or subjective reality like if you were a father
How would you treat your children? You know what I'm saying? Would you want your children to be?
Obsessively robotic as you're their dictator or would you want?
You know, so I like that what you're doing is you're actually rephrasing that me being a skeptic atheist, right?
Um, I love people regardless. I don't go out of my way to say you need to stop believing in a god or this this that
That's not my mission man. It's not my mission
Right. Um, my mission is love community trying to figure out a way for us to come together
People can believe things and that's and that's okay with me
Um, but when you have these kind of beliefs that they have
This is harmful
And you know, it's sad to hear you say and I know that you don't you mean all well in it
But it's sad to hear you say when your mom wouldn't potentially talk to you
And I know you say you wouldn't feel a certain type of way but for me on the outside looking at and say
She gave birth to you bro. You like yeah
She's your flesh and blood and she's gonna take the word of another man at another church
At the kingdom hall
Telling her how she should live her life with her children because some book the way they interpret it by the way
Yeah, I mean they got some crazy interpretations. I've heard
The Ezekiel's will within a will. Oh, that's the organization
What kind of uh drugs did the initial interpreter of that that's in the jw do because you gotta be
Did acid just come out at the time? I mean like you're there's some trippy things. You know, anyway, I just think it's I'm trying to be funny, but you know, um
That's that's my thing. I just wanted you to know that
I I say that because a lot of xjw's are either atheist or they move to a different type of
Divine view
Regardless and so you're suggesting that if they're still holding on to something
They can't let go the existence of god, which can be traumatic for some. Yeah, um, ultimately they need to try and
look at things for more of a
God wouldn't want that for you imagine, you know, would you want that for your children?
How is he a good father if he's right you get where I'm coming from?
Absolutely because that's that's the way that
People like really have to because this is thing. I'm an atheist myself
But at the same time I can understand why somebody would believe in god
I get I get it
But the thing that I cannot understand is how somebody could believe in god and also at the same exact time
Believe that he'd be okay with certain other things. You know what I mean?
like for instance the jahoba witnesses have this thing to where as
They're saying that, you know, you should just listen to us without question
like would god really give a human being
like them
like the the
Literally the power of god because the only being you're supposed to listen to without question is god. That's it
It's kind of funny you say that because when you read these books yourself
You'll find out oftentimes in the prophets of the old testament the heber bible
You find these prophets literally arguing with god
They're mad at god. Okay. They're literally arguing with god and
They're not arguing and nothing happens to the narrative of course of the prophet the story goes that god does end up answering them
Yeah, now he might not buckle. He might say I'm just and I'm this and that but he still ends up answering them
Yeah, for me being who I am as a skeptic or whatnot, you know, unless I'm going to experience that and know with certainty
I'm not on drugs. I'm not tripping. I don't have mental health issues
You know where I'm going from but but asking yourself skip the organization for a second
If you're feeling not right go to the book yourself and you'll find out the organization in that book
Dude, they're picking and choosing so, you know
Search yourself be logical be critical try and consider new things and uh, I guess that's what you're trying to say is like
You kind of have to take a
A risk there, you know, and if they're already doubting though
Then from there you would what would you recommend they do if they're already doubting
Get involved in a ask a group that's already left. Why they left would that be a good question? Yes
Absolutely go to get your yelp review on the Jehovah Witness
You know what I mean?
Like go to the source because if you're going to talk to anybody first off
For somebody to say don't talk to an ex person
Like because you can go out of field service and you can argue with somebody
You can argue with somebody who's a Christian to the cows come home
You know what I mean? Like you can argue with them. They can point out crazy stuff from your doctor and or whatever
Forever you can't you can actually do that. But for some reason somebody who's an ex member
Somebody who can actually tell you like yeah, I used to believe what you believe
They're a danger
Think about that rationally
Because even if they do trick you right
How long can the person be tricked? Can it be tricked forever if
You find out you're tricked
Yeah, if you're still searching, how can you stay tricked exactly like it because that's that's is a thing like if somebody
If somebody like leaves the organization, right? Oh, I got tricked into leaving the organization
Are we going to tell you to never go back? Are we going to tell you to never look at anything that they put out?
Are we we would never tell you to do that?
Like right now I probably read more watchtower in the wake
Now than I did when I was in because I understand exactly what they're doing now
So I read it now and I look at it. You got to look at the two different one side is telling you
Don't talk to them. Don't listen to them. Don't read nothing that they put out
And the other side is saying yeah, you can look at whatever you want to you can read whatever you want to
And then the end of the day go with what makes go with what makes the most sense
So at the end so so that's what I'm saying. It's two different things now
There's some called a consciousness of guilt
Which means that if you know you're wrong, then you're going to try to cover up the evidence
Who seems like they're trying to cover up evidence in that scenario and who's trying to just get to the logical truth in that scenario
So it's it's it's it's it's not really something that's like rocket science if you really want to get to the truth
Even if you like I say I'm an atheist, but there's certain things in the bible that
Literally goes 100 against the Jehovah witnesses. It says keep searching for the truth as if you're searching for hidden treasure
That means that even when you think you got the treasure, you're supposed to keep searching for it
Right, that don't mean that you know and how do you get treasure?
Do you just get all your information from one person or do you just search for it?
You got to get every all the information that you have at your disposal
Dude, I love that. No, you should yeah
So it makes no sense at the end of the day. They're going against the bible
They're going against god
They're going against everything that they say that they stand for
And even though i'm not a you know religious person anymore
I can still hold them accountable for what they do on a religious level
And then once people understand that then we could talk about the other stuff that's just
You know morally unacceptable. You know what I mean?
Like holding people hostage holding families hostages and stuff like that. That's not you can't do that if somebody wants to leave
Let them leave don't say well, you know, you're gonna have to get rid of your family and stuff
No, that's holding people in hostage and that's what they do
It's mental manipulation too
So they they can get away with saying no, I didn't hold them hostage. They wanted to but yeah
Taught them that they must do that to be a good organizational member to be right with god
So yeah, my final question and I think this is a good one in the vein of
Of of some of the interviews that I've done and I'd like to get your thoughts
Was there a particular doctrine that that maybe
Like red flagged when you started to search this because what usually happens from what I can tell is they start to doubt
You started doubting it wasn't like one day you were in and the next day you were out
It was like there was a transition we started like man. I got questions this thing's not no bro
Something's wrong. Was there a doctrine? I'll give you an example. Um, I believe
I know for jt and lady c and jt
He said bro, let me tell you something. I found out about that apocalypse that was supposed to happen in 1975
He said I have I have so much respect. He said for the 1976
Apostates, he said the dudes who left in 1976 are og's
They are the gangsters because they didn't have the internet
They didn't have all the google wikipedia showing how wrong these guys were and they left and they had nothing and they had to start over
So for him it was that I think loy had had that same thing for fifth
I can't remember exactly what you know because I don't remember what me and fifth talked about but in terms of his exact reason
But the doubts started coming in
What was there a doctrine that specifically can you remember that maybe started going man?
Something's wrong or did someone challenge you and say yo dude
Uh, your organization said this or teaches this and look right here in the book
They say they believe in look right here. Is there anything you can remember that maybe caught your attention?
well, like like I was saying earlier, um
The whole jesus like the version of jesus they had in the bible
He looked like he was an italian guy, you know what I mean?
and or white
Right like a white guy from europe. You know what I mean?
And I remember uh these these guys there there's some crazy guys do not ever like listen to them because they're crazy
They're called the hebu israelites. I know these guys are nuts, right?
But they correctly pointed out that the bible said he had skin of brawn and hair of wool
And that all these people all these things happen in continent of africa
Why aren't there any black people in my book of bible stories?
Why aren't there any black people and any of the literature any of the literature every single character from the bible?
That's the jhovah winds put out with either a black or a white woman. You know what I'm saying? I mean, I'm sorry
They were everybody was mostly white. Yeah, they were all white
Well now they put um black and white in the the future magazines. They're trying to present this utopian future
Where are we all going along? So I don't know when they changed that but no
I'm talking about the actual bible characters every single bible character because we had a book called the my book of bible stories
And it was just about, you know, david and goliath
Mo Noah the ark uh like moses all the bible characters in there every single one was white
Every single one the pictures there was no black characters in this entire book
And in any book from then like I've never seen in any book
You you know how many books that jhovah winds has put out? I have personally
I have personally never seen a black character in any books even printed to this day
I haven't seen any black bible characters at all
so
Even back then I was asking
Where are they and why are they and when I asked that question instead of getting an answer or them trying to dig
To the bottom of it. They just said stop reading apostate material
And I started actually from that point looking at things that were considered apostate material because isn't that weird
Yeah, yeah, like a lot of it. Yeah. Yeah, why why is it when they tell you not to do it?
It's like you felt in your gut. You knew in your gut
Man, why are they why are they so afraid of me even looking at this stuff? Yeah, like what is I thought this was a legit question
This was and this is a funny thing. You know how I'll tell you like I wasn't big jhovah witness
I wasn't like into it. I wasn't going out first. This was literally my first
question
Well, I'm like, I bet you I know who can give me the answer to this the elders
This is the first time I actually came to the elders
With a good biblical question. It wasn't nothing like facetious
It wasn't me trying to like like one up on or prove a point nothing
I actually had a question. I found a good question to ask them and they
Couldn't answer it
Couldn't I answer it and actually drove me to look at apostate material
I can respect that a lot because I grew up, you know, reading the bible going to churches and stuff
Wherever characters practically white once in a while. They got a little tan, you know
But you know, when you're someone who believes in this and you come from and your own skin color is dark
Okay, you kind of want to see like how you connect to it
Yeah, can you imagine if everyone had blonde hair blue eyes and the bible pictures that you're reading your whole life just saying
And and you don't have blonde hair. You don't have blue eyes. You don't have
White pale skin, but all the characters do you kind of wonder, you know, you got to scratch your head
Now i'm not saying they're all blonde hair blue. I they probably had some brunettes, but
You know what i'm saying like how the hell does that help?
I just really think that's funny
It is because in every book from front to back all the angels were white
Jesus was white
Like the four horsemen were white
One of them was just like bones like dead bones, but i'm like, i'm probably white people bones, you know, like
It was just no
people at all like
Like did they make a conscious decision not to put black people in this boat?
interesting
And and i even back then
I i i kind of felt like
Like that that's that hurts me psychologically
I don't want to
Because for for my entire life
Even if i ask like people right now when you get an image of jesus in your head
Do you see a black person or do you see a white person?
And all the black people i know they say they see a white person. That's your hover witnesses. They see a black person
I mean that's your hover witnesses
They see a white person but people who i know that are not jahoba witnesses other black people they feel like jesus was black
so
It's it's crazy and i guess in the grand scheme of things people are just like
Well, it's not about whether or not he's black or white. I mean i guess but yeah, but then why is he always white?
If it don't matter, you know, that's a good point. No good good point
And i go to a local um flea market once in a while and there's a lady from africa who sells
You know all sorts of stuff all pictures and stuff and there's jesus in the last supper and jesus and the disciples are afro
They got those like they go all out corn rolls, bro. They got two legs
No, i'm just kidding
No, because i live in fable north carolina, bro
I grew up in my population here in 50 50, you know, it's mostly white and black
But i grew up my whole life with this, you know, and i'm very glad i'm thankful that i did and i didn't
Get sheltered in a world where everything was all proper
This and protect me from this. No, i gotta see the real world
And so my heart and my my being pours out for
You know the struggle that we've been going through as a nation even recently with the chaos and
Oh goodness, i don't want to get caught up in everything else right now
But tell me a joke. Tell me a joke before we go j i gotta hear something. Can you think of something?
i'm putting on this spot, aren't i?
You are for the oldest spot. You have a j w joke. I mean we're on j w top
Anything you can think of
Uh, can i cuss on here? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. He should like it. I just I just thought it was funny how
I like when you was a j w
All the older women because it was so many like older women and it was so few like men or whatever that was available
Like the old women are always trying to fuck you and if you're like, uh, come on lady
Don't nobody want to see them world war two titties. I want them great depression titties. You know what i mean?
Oh my gosh, i'm kidding. He's probably helped free the slaves, you know
Oh my
You're wild. I can't do that, man. I'm like it's a good chance. Martin Luther King sucked them titties. I can't suck the same tittie
Martin Luther King sucked
You just lost you just lost any j w who was sitting on the fence for us
Why i'm not going to be a postate you prove us
Yeah, they probably think you have a spirit or a demon or a devil. I don't I tell dirty jokes. That's how it goes
Bro, if they don't think this once in a while, they're tricking themselves. So I appreciate you man. Seriously
Invite man. Sorry about the first one. I completely messed that one up, but
Don't worry about it, man. It's all good. Don't worry about it
I really appreciate you tuning in and joining me and everybody can go down in the description
Make sure you guys check out his stuff
Go show him some love and support. You know j you're being authentic. You're being yourself, man. And um
I you know, I commend you for that and i'm thankful that you know, you're out here
You're a voice and you're saying life does have uh, it's good moments outside
In fact, it's better than what it was when you were in it because you were trying to fake being something
You knew you weren't true to yourself. And so now you are
The rewards outside is much better than the rewards inside because the rewards outside you actually get rewarded for you know
And this is the thing when it comes to life
If you work hard and you struggle
And when you struggled inside of the organization, you got nothing but now
Struggle is where success lives, you know if success was easy to get to everybody will have it
And since the rewards are so good, you got to struggle to get the better rewards
So the rewards that come when you struggle outside the organization are so much better than rewards that come when you struggle inside
So just remember that
Ladies and gentlemen, and don't forget
We
are
Myth vision
You
