Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate everyone checking the site.
You're going to want to see Jexits Exit out of the JWs.
It's really powerful.
Consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcast to help me grow and continue my endeavors with
scholars and all the shows that I do.
You'll get early access to everything that I put out.
There's over 100 videos that aren't released on YouTube as well as maybe a one-time donation
if you guys are interested in PayPal, Cash App.
Those options are down in the description.
I love you guys.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
I'm glad you guys are tuning in again.
We're going to be talking to another ex-Jahovah's witness to get their story.
And I mean, this cult, it just never surprises me.
I mean, it keeps surprising me.
I apologize.
It keeps surprising me with new things.
I'm so shocked to find out the common parallels between cults like this and Scientology,
extremely mind-controlling brainwashing systems, and the harm that they've caused,
so many of these people.
Yet, the scars they wear, so to speak, psychologically and emotionally,
have taught these people quite a lot.
And I'm really excited to bring on the guests that I have today.
Today, I'm bringing Riley from Jexit.
And how are you doing, Riley?
I'm good.
Thank you, Derek.
How are you doing?
Doing good.
You're in London.
I hope things are going well where you're at right now.
And it's not too bad.
Not really great with the whole COVID situation, but yeah, we're managing.
We're coping.
Well, do me a favor.
For those who don't know on MythVision, most people who probably are going to check into this
might be ex-Jahovah's witnesses themselves, but they may not be familiar with who you are.
And then those who aren't don't know who you are.
So could you tell us a little bit about your YouTube channel, what you do, what is your goal?
I'm sure you are protesting, so to speak, through the internet on trying to expose the
cult and to free more people from this mind control, if you will, that we see.
Yeah, cool.
So my name's Riley.
As you said, I'm a former Jehovah's Witness.
I'm a born-in.
Well, technically, I'm a born-in.
My mum started studying with witnesses when I was about two years old,
and she got baptized when I was six.
So I call myself a born-in, because it's all I know.
I left the religion in 2019, April 2019.
I was a disfellowshipped, which for viewers who don't know the term, it's comparable to
ex-communication.
But I didn't actually wake up, as we say in the ex-JW community, until the following year,
which was June 2020.
That's when I started doing my research, and I realized that the whole religion is just
a high-control group or a cult, and it's just a big lie.
And it was really devastating to me, but I felt that I had to do something about it.
So I started my YouTube channel, which I call Jexit 2020, which Jexit means a JW exit.
That was my exit from the JW religion, and it happened in 2020.
Although I was disfellowshipped in 2019, I count myself as Exit in the religion in 2020,
because that's when I left it mentally.
So yeah, that's why I started my channel.
At first, I just wanted to tell my story, just speak about how I left, how I found out
that it wasn't real, that it was just a big deception, hoping that others would connect
with my story, and if they were having doubts or thinking about researching the religion,
that it would encourage them to do so.
And I also wanted to help people to see that there is a life outside of the organization.
I mean, when you're inside a group like that, they tell you all the time that
there is absolutely nothing outside. If you ever leave, your life will just be
a complete shambles. There's a common phrase that they say,
they say that the world will chew you up and spit you out.
You know, everyone expects people who leave to end up in the gutter basically,
to be in prison or on drugs, or the worst of the worst that you could possibly think
that could happen to you, that's going to happen to you.
But I just wanted to show people that that doesn't have to be the case.
Wow. No, that's powerful. I'm very thankful that you do.
And I guess to back up a little, because this is important building up to where you're at today,
we got to discuss a little bit of your path. And that way people know how you got to where you are.
And one of those questions that I have isn't really a question. I want to make a statement,
but you can also elaborate on it, is that, you know, you were sincere.
You at one point, before your eyes opened in 2020, this was your life. This was everything you knew.
You didn't think outside of this. You might have had doubts. Maybe I'd like to ask you as you go.
Doubts came, but we were really good, because I can relate to this,
really, really good at suppressing it. My wife all the time used to tell me, Derek,
how come you don't doubt? And I would tell her, oh, because my faith is strong, but really,
I did have doubts from time to time, but I was really good at pushing it and saying,
no, move forward. And I don't know if that's a man thing that we're just able to mission-minded.
And we know how to push things to the side and keep focused on the things we believe to be true.
What was your experience in the cult like that? You were totally
buying into the whole thing. And then tell us what happened. Gradually,
I suspect something happened, maybe an eye opener. Yeah. So I was a true believer right up until
round about the year 2013. In 2013, I had some a lot of difficulties in my marriage.
And my wife at the time and I, we saw the assistance of the elders in the congregation
for some of those issues. And I really started to see cracks in the doctrine
and in the arrangement of the elders who were supposed to shepherd the congregation as a result
of that, the way that they handled certain matters just really made me question, start
questioning the whole thing. And it was a real big blow to my faith. Yeah. I just stopped because
we're taught that the elders in the congregation, they were appointed by Holy Spirit. They're led
by Holy Spirit when it comes to shepherding the congregation. And that went completely contrary
to my experience. Yeah. So it was a real big, it had a real negative impact on my faith. And I
started really questioning a lot of things from that point onwards. May I dig if that's okay with
you? Are you comfortable with going there a little bit? Not speaking specifically about the
issues in my marriage and stuff. Right. Because I have four children who may see this video at
some point. Respect. Yeah. I respect you on that. I guess my question is, and I suspect that the
elders in the way they handled the situation, because I've gone to marriage counseling too,
but I went, I've done it in the church, and then I've also done it in the real world.
I call it the real world because these are medical professionals who are, you know,
coming at this and they're not like, well, say 40 Hail Marys if you're a Catholic, or like,
go and say this prayer and make sure you do that. My question is the elders, did they,
were there things they said in the way that they approached you that really red flagged you, that
this does not seem that God, the way you understood God as a Jehovah's Witnesses did not match the
way that they were treating this situation? Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Because I mean, I was always
told that the elders are led by God's Holy Spirit. So that's what directs them in the things that they
do and that God can see people's hearts. You know, so it really raised a lot of questions for me,
because I was like, if God can see my heart and he knows that I'm not a wicked person in my heart,
shouldn't he be directing the elders along that same line of thinking? You know,
but it was obvious in a way that they dealt with me that that wasn't the case. It just became
obvious to me that they were just men who were just going, you know, acting on their own initiative.
You know, there was no kind of divine guidance behind them or anything like that. They were
following policies and procedures and rules. They were basically company men. There was no kind of
divine guidance behind anything that they did. They didn't even seem empathetic of your situation
toward you in any way? Some of them were. Some of them were. There was one in particular who
was very, very well-meaning, very well-meaning. There was another one who he was well-meaning, but
I could, I could, I got the sense from him that he wanted to do more, but he was restricted by the
rules of his, of his office, so to speak, in what he couldn't, couldn't do. And I kind of got the
feeling that he was frustrated by that. And then, and then there was others that I just, I wouldn't
trust them as far as I could throw them. Which isn't far. Which isn't far now. Right. So I guess
that's interesting because I wonder how they deal with apostate elders who are supposedly moved by
the Holy Spirit. So how does God, Jehovah, having control over his elders, the Holy Spirit, is
obviously guiding these elders. And they separate, I suspect, the Holy Spirit from Jehovah. I don't
know. Is it Jehovah's spirit that leads the, the, the... Well, it's Jehovah that leads them by means
of his spirit. That's how it goes. So how do you have Lloyd Evans in the world? How do you have
these, how do you have JT? How do you have, you know, how do you have these people when supposedly
the Holy Spirit, which guides you into all truth, is going to lead them out of this church or allow
them to leave this church? It just, what do they argue? Free will at that point? Do they try to make
it? Yeah. There's this really, really big get out clause that, that witnesses have and it serves
for every single situation. And that is that it's in, it's the mistakes of imperfect people. When you
see things go wrong in the organization, they say, well, that's not Jehovah. That's just imperfect
people. You know, and it's just the biggest excuse. It's the biggest cop out that they use in, in
absolutely everything. You know, I mean, I spoke recently with a friend who's still a Jehovah's
Witness. And I mentioned to her about the Australian Royal Commission and how I saw Jeffrey Jackson,
who's a member of the governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses, how I saw him lie under oath. And
she said, well, they're imperfect men at the end of the day. That's not Jehovah's fault. You know,
he's supposed to be one of the people who's got soul channel of communication on the earth.
So if the excuse can work for, for him, then it just works all the way through the organization
in their minds. Even apostate governing body members from back in the day, you know,
it just shocks me. So let me ask you this, that, that in 2013 cracked the armor of your faith.
And there was, you know, as the old token show with the, the hobbit and whatnot, there's the
dragon and he has that one weak point. And this was it. This is what started it for you and weakened
you at least. What, um, was there curiosity? You heard someone say something, you were pioneering
maybe someone questioned you and said, have you looked into this man? You really should.
What caused you to start, you know? Well, that, that wasn't until, um, I'd, until after I'd left
the religion. So for the next, so that was 2013, for the next six years, I remain a witness.
But gradually as time went on, I just had less and less interest in being a witness. You know,
the last year that I attended witness meetings, I was just sitting there. I was just there in
body only. I was daydreaming throughout the whole, all of the meetings, you know, I was just,
just so disillusioned with the whole thing. But then my marriage broke down in January, 2019.
I was this fellowship in April of 2019. I met my current partner in May,
towards the end of May, 2019. And she was the next step because she was such, well, not was,
still is the most moral, decent, principled human being I've ever met in my entire life.
And I was taught that somebody of that caliber in terms of their character would only ever exist
within the Jehovah's Witness organization. That that's what I was led to believe that
we had the best people and people on the outside, although some of them might be good,
you know, most of them are bad, but then even the good ones are not that good,
you know. So meeting her and getting to know her and, you know, falling in love with her and
having a relationship with her made me question that whole thing. You know, it made me realize
that Jehovah's Witnesses don't have the monopoly on good people and the outside world doesn't have
the monopoly on bad people. There's a lot of overlap in between. You know, that's a great
point you bring up that I forgot. And, you know, I love interviewing ex-Jehovah's Witnesses because
you guys bring up a lot from the, from the Christian denominations I came out of as well.
So when people want to label, oh, well, once you leave the JWs, get to the real truth and go to
this church or go to that church or find the real truth about Jesus, go to this type of thing.
A lot of the comments I'll see that are ex-JWs that are now still Christians,
they make these remarks. Derek, quit equating your versions of Christianity to this cult.
And I'm thinking to myself, the only difference is the level, the high concentrated level
in which they control their members. That's really the real difference is just
they can make you not speak to your family members based on the brainwashing.
But if you take it serious and you get into some of these denominations,
the same thing happens, Pentecostals, Baptists, the same thing can happen in these Protestant type
of denominations. And, you know, there's a real level of cult where you have elders coming to
your door on Sunday after the meeting, which they consider Sunday the Sabbath, right? The day changed.
The Christian church changes the day. And they say, you've sinned today. You didn't come to
Sabbath. You didn't come to church. Why didn't you come to church? You had no good reason not to.
This is stuff that happened in the Protestant churches I have. So for those who have this
blanket statement that only the JWs, but the real truth is over here, and that's, you know,
hold your, you know, opinions, please, because trust me when I say I experienced very similar
things to our friend here, Riley, in different ways. And Riley, you brought up something interesting.
I'd like to turn it back to you because this isn't a show about me, but I always like to relate and
let people hear where I came from, which is similar to what you guys experienced in some ways.
Not all. You guys have really had it hard. When you were in 2019 and you met this wonderful woman
in May and you're now this fellowship, but you said in 2020s when you really gave it up, gave
it up. Did you try to work yourself back into what you believed was the truth all along? Were you?
No, no, I didn't. I mean, I wasn't actively thinking about going back ever.
And the closer I got with my partner, the less I thought about, you know, ever going back to
the religion. It came to a point where I, this actually happened, right? So we were at, it was
evening, we were asleep. I woke up in the middle of the night and I thought to myself,
this woman makes me so unbelievably happy. She makes me happier than anything
I experienced as a Jehovah's Witness. And then it was in that moment that I decided that I would
never ever go back, even though I still believed it. I had a few doubts about certain things,
but I still fully believed in the religion. I still believed that Armageddon was going to come.
This was at the height of COVID, you know, the first time around. I was having nightmares
every single night thinking that this was like the start of the end times and Armageddon and
all of that, which is probably why I woke up in the middle of the night and was thinking about
all of this. And in that moment, I decided that even if Armageddon was to come tomorrow and I
was going to die, it wouldn't make a difference. I wouldn't want to survive. I wanted my life to
be with her, whether it was for the next week, the next month, the next year, I would never,
ever go back to the religion in the hopes of attaining salvation. I threw my lot in her
completely. And I said, one final prayer to Jehovah. And I said, you have not loved me,
a tiny fraction of the amount this woman does. You have not made me as happy as she has. I said,
credit where it's due. You've been really patient with me with all of my faults and flaws and the
mistakes that I've made. You've been very patient with me, but you haven't been loving with me.
So I said, even if Armageddon was to come tomorrow and you gave me the choice
to return to you and survive or die with her, I would choose to die with her.
And then I said, amen, and then went back to sleep.
Wow, that's pretty deep, though, to say that that's pretty deep.
Wow. Once again, it comes back to this Armageddon thing, this end of times.
And the JWs aren't the only ones, ladies and gentlemen, they're not the only ones.
They're not the only cult that has this fear on their members to keep them in the movement.
Protestants do this a lot as well. So I relate so much to you because I had dreams about the end.
I had a fear of what's going to happen. Will I be in right standing with him when he comes back,
or will I be in bad standing? If I'm in bad standing, then he's going to leave me,
which, of course, they had a rapture concept at the time, which you guys have a different view
of an eternal earth and all that. So I can relate 100% when you say this woman brought
you real happiness. And, of course, this movement and this organization didn't.
It really brought you, if anything, by this time, turmoil. You're just experiencing
depression, probably anxiety. Yeah, absolutely. But you were physically out,
mentally in, and they call that chemo, right? That's a Pomi. Pomi. Pomi. Yeah.
So what happened? You believed. Okay. And now you don't. Yeah. So what happened was,
so my partner is American. So we have a long distance relationship. But at this time,
the time that I just told you about, she was in London with me. She was actually stranded here,
couldn't get a flight back because of all the lockdowns and everything. But she eventually got
a flight back to the States. And that was in June. Yeah, that was in June 2020.
So I went with her to the airport and said goodbye. I was on my way back home. I was on the bus.
And I remembered that I was like a week before that I'd looked up an old friend on Facebook.
And we weren't connected on Facebook anymore. But I looked her up. And I found her and on her
profile, her profile picture was of a t-shirt. And it had the word apostate written across it.
And as soon as I saw that, I freaked out immediately and just
canceled out of it. But while I was on the way back home after dropping my partner off at the
airport, I remembered that. And I thought to myself, I started thinking about it was like,
why, why would she be wearing the t-shirt with the word apostate on it? Apostate is such a negative
thing. It's such a hugely bad and evil thing. Why would she be self identifying as an apostate?
And it just baffled me and I just couldn't stop thinking about it. So when I got home,
I wrestled with the idea of looking up apostate videos on YouTube. And I decided I was going to
give myself permission to do so. And no word of a lie, my hands were shaking. I was sweating.
My heart was pounding just as I was typing the word apostate into the search bar.
Because the brainwashing and the programming against apostates is so strong. It was like I was
at war with myself just trying to perform the physical act of searching for it.
So I did. I did in the end. And I came across a YouTube channel called Apostate Chick.
And the girl that runs this channel, she didn't fit the stereotypical
idea I had in my head of what an apostate is. So that made me feel better about watching her
videos. And I completely binge watched her channel. I watched every single video she did.
And everything she said made so much sense. It made so much sense. I mean, the first video
that I watched was about celebrating birthdays and celebrating holidays. And she said some
things in that video that I didn't even know. She referenced publications that I hadn't even
read yet as a witness. But it made so much sense, everything she said. And I'd recently
celebrated the first birthday I'd ever celebrated. And, yeah, so that helped me feel better about
doing that. And then I just carried on just over the next, over the next couple of months,
all I did was just watch, I just consumed so much XJW content. I just binge watched them
all day, every day. So you went from fear of even thinking, of looking at the word apostate
on a woman's shirt that you knew was a Jehovah's Witness to there was a bridge. You crossed a
bridge and you had to hold on to something. And what she presented, the way that she showed herself,
the way that she explained herself, you felt comfortable, you felt trust in her after you
related to the things she kept saying. And you ended up on the other side probably going,
wow, this world view that she has, and is presenting about this organization makes far
more sense than what the organization is presenting about the world out there.
Exactly, exactly. You hit the nail on the head exactly right. You know, I mean,
over the next couple of months, all I did was watch XJW videos, but it really only took a week
before the whole religion was completely dismantled in my mind. It was it was really
only one week. And one of the last things I discovered was a letter that one of the
former presidents of the organization had written in the 1930s. And this letter was to Hitler.
And that my heart sank when I found that out. I cried for days. I literally cried for days,
because I'm not I'm sure you've probably heard this one speaking to other XJWs, but
Jehovah's Witnesses have a really, really, really strong and intense dislike of Catholics,
of the whole Catholic religion. And one of the reasons for that is that we feel that the Catholics
weren't completely neutral, you know, politically during World War II.
And that's one of the reasons that that's one of the the things that, you know,
fuels this this deep disdain that witnesses have for Catholics. So when I saw that, you know,
the former president, Rutherford, had written to Hitler, tried to basically curry favor with
Hitler and explain how, you know, our two organizations aren't so different. We have
the same kind of ideals. You know, the hypocrisy, the hypocrisy hit me like a ton of bricks,
and it really devastated me, even though I by this point, I had no longer believed
in the religion. That was a huge disappointment. And it was like I was grieving.
For the next few days, it literally was like I was grieving. I cried and cried and cried.
You know, I have to say, my own personal conversion didn't go that same route. And I'm
thankful that it didn't. This was a world buster for you, I can tell. And you, you loved the
organization. You loved what you stood for, what you believed in. Yeah, it was my whole identity.
It was my whole identity. You know, there were days where I mean, before I woke up,
there were days where I woke before I woke up metaphorically. There were days when I woke up
physically and literally did not know who I was. All the things that in my life that I'd
defined myself by were no longer applied. You know, it was a huge identity crisis that I don't
know who I am. You know, I can so relate to you, brother, you're not alone, man. And that's why
you do what you do. Your talk, you know, many people probably see what you're doing right now,
and you make them feel the way that apostate chick made you feel. Yeah, well, I hope, I hope so. I
sincerely hope so. I mean, when I started my channel, the aim of my channel wasn't to tear down
the religion and to expose its fallacies. It was simply to provide comfort and support to people
who have left or thinking about leaving. But I started getting so much positive feedback from
people, you know, saying how I'd help them to see things differently and, you know, how encouraging
I've been to them to, you know, try and make their way out of this organization. I rethought
that position and I thought to myself, why shouldn't I help people to, you know, to see how
forced this religion is? That's wonderful, man. Of course, I encourage everybody who's watching
to go down in the description, make sure you guys go and subscribe to his channel and help
support what he's doing. Drop those good comments, call them algorithm comments, you know, go talk,
help his channel get big and grow because I can relate to you, man, in so many ways.
And to ask you something else that in light of this, you were born into this or let's just
say born into this because when you're two, you're practically an infant, you know, you don't know
anything else. My question is mom, dad, where are they at in the picture now? Well, my dad passed
away in 2001. He wasn't an active witness at the time. He was a baptized member of the congregation,
but he was no longer attending witness meetings at the time of his death. But my mom is still alive
and she doesn't speak to me at all. We haven't really spoken since June, June 2020.
And she knows before that, actually, sorry, we haven't spoken since around June, July 2019.
Wow. Yeah. She knows where you stand now. Oh, she knows where I stand. She knows where I stand.
I mean, she stopped speaking to me a couple of months after I got this fellowship.
But I'm sure, I mean, we haven't spoken about it, but I'm 100% sure she knows about my channel
and about my SJW activities, which is even more the reason for her to not speak to me.
In fact, a couple of months ago, I was in hospital. I had emergency surgery
and she wouldn't call me. I've heard from a relative, a non-witness relative, that
she absolutely refused to call me. I'm sorry about that, man.
She eventually sent me a text message, but that was because she got really strongly told off
by a non-witness relative. But if it weren't for that, she wouldn't have contacted me at all.
That disgusts me, and I'm not talking about for your mom, the whole organization
causing your mom to think that way really disgusts me. It just, it really upsets me,
and I know that you know your mom deep down, deep down in there, apart from the whole faith thing.
She'd been there. She'd have flew out, apart from this, but this organization is evil.
It is the epitome of evil. Let me ask, because this goes into the vein of when you left,
did they try to reconcile with you? Did they try to get you to come back?
Have they tried since to try and get you to come back?
No, not really. I mean, I had a couple of text exchanges with one of the elders who was on my
judicial committee, and he was encouraging me to come back and everything, but that was it really.
You know? I mean, at that time, I hadn't decided to never ever come back,
but I was just, I was too discouraged to go back at that time.
Yeah, because I just, I no longer viewed Jehovah as a god of justice, not because I was disfellowshipped.
I mean, I have no animosity towards the organization for me being disfellowshipped,
because I did actually do the thing that I was disfellowshipped for,
but I was accused of doing a lot of other things that I didn't do,
but I know the elders believed that I did, and so I thought to myself, you know,
Jehovah knows I didn't do those things because I didn't do them.
So why wouldn't he, by means of his Holy Spirit, lead the elders to the same conclusion?
You know, so I stopped believing that God is, that Jehovah is a god of justice, and that's why
I had no desire to return at that time, but I hadn't completely ruled it out for the future.
So interesting how the Holy Spirit led men, which really the Holy Spirit should be leading them,
don't know the truth, huh? The spirit that leads you in all truth doesn't really know the answer,
and that's quite interesting. So, and look, I love that, you know, you did a, I appreciate
you kind of bringing that back up, because my head connects some dots in my own experience in life,
too. And, and, you know, we're all humans, we're all humans, but to make the excuse in the organization
by the claims that they make, oh, well, the Holy Spirit would do this, and this, this, that.
Come on, guys. I mean, how active is God in this program, in this organization? So
I, I do want to ask you from the heart, man, I know you've probably shed so many tears over
this, and you've poured your heart out and stuff. Someone watching this right now might be sitting
on the fence. They're probably afraid to click this video, like to just see what you, what you
have to say and what you have to offer. They, they, they're afraid. What would you say to them?
You have absolutely nothing to fear. You have nothing to fear whatsoever.
We live in a day and age where people don't buy a toothbrush without looking online and checking
out reviews from the, the vendor or the manufacturer. Something as fundamental to a person's life as
their religion, as their faith. Why would you not want to research it? You know? And the thing is
Jehovah's Witnesses differ from a lot of other religions because compared to Jehovah's Witnesses,
most religions are, are more or less a hobby. You know, something that you do once or a couple
of times a week or maybe even once or a couple of times a year, and that's all there is to it.
With Jehovah's Witnesses, it's not like that. It usurps your career. It usurps your, your free
time. Every, your life is a Jehovah's Witness. That's what and who you are primarily before
everything else. It is your whole life. So before committing to something like that,
know what you're getting into and, you know, don't take the organization's word for it.
I mean, if you were going to buy a car, you wouldn't take only the salesman's word for it.
You know, you do independent research. So that's, that's what you should do.
Well said. That is well said. A couple, couple of things I'd like to ask before we go, because
this was a really heartfelt to the point interview. Most of them are long expanded and we do cover
some great material, but I really do like what you've, what you've said so far. So say someone
wants some evidence. They said, all right, Riley, I need some evidence. Give me something that you
would claim goes against the church and shows evidence that this organization is not doing the
right thing or it's not true. What would you, where would you steer them to give them a direction,
if you will? I would steer them to, well, there's a few things, but I think the slam dunk would be
the Australian Royal Commission. So for people who don't know about it, it's basically the Australian
government set up a commission or sort of like an investigation into how certain religious groups
handle cases of child abuse within their, within their organization. It was set up because of
Jehovah's Witnesses, but it was expanded to include other, other organizations as well.
And you would not believe, you know, if you were to watch the whole thing, which I have a couple
of times, you would not believe what you were hearing. And then to see a governing body member,
you know, lie under oath. His testimony was, I felt, I literally fell off of my chair when I saw
it. There were a couple of things that he said that just left me completely flabbergasted.
Things that went contrary to what I was raised to believe.
Yeah. I can't imagine. I can't imagine what your mind was doing when you ran into these,
these things. Yeah. All you knew was being stripped out from underneath you. And
how did that transition work? Was it the loved one, the girl that you're in love with,
which really helped comfort you through this process? And what does she? Oh, absolutely.
What does she believe? Was she? She, she doesn't identify with any particular religion,
but she's not an atheist. Okay. You know, and my wife's the same way. I'm an atheist. And she's
like, well, I think there's something. I just don't think man knows what they're talking about. So,
yeah. Yeah. But she, she has just been absolute treasure. You know, she, she's helped me and
comforted me through every step of this journey that I've been on. You know, she's, she's been a
invaluable. I can't think of a better word than that. She, she's been invaluable.
Wow. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Jackson, make sure you go and check out his YouTube channel.
What do you, what all the ideas that you cover, if you will, on your YouTube channel so people
can go and check out the content. Oh, thank you. Yeah. So I've done a six part video series of
how I woke up. It identifies every step in that process. There are some videos on there that
are basically helping people to recover from their indoctrination and move on with their lives,
move forward, get over the, some of the damage that the, that the organization does to you
psychologically and mentally. Not that I'm a trained professional or anything like that. I'm
just sharing my own experience of what has helped me. And then there are other like topical things
thing, you know, things that I have strong ideas about that I just want to discuss. So I'll just
make a video about them. Well, make sure you guys go check that out. I really do appreciate you
joining me Riley. I really do. Hopefully we can have you come back again too. Maybe we, I would
love to. Yeah, I'd like to talk more ideas because I know there's a lot more. This is a great satellite
view of your experience. We did a little probing, of course, in the hot topics and moved forward,
but I'm pretty certain we could get a collab going with you and a couple other XJWs to have
like a good show going into the organization and pointing out some aha moments. So I really
do appreciate that. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I'd love that. Hit that subscribe button. Hit that
like button. You know how to do it and never, ever forget we are Mythician.
