Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, Rockin' the Merch.
You see the merch occasionally, I never really plug it,
but I'm Rockin' the MythVision merch, been enjoying it.
The wife got me a few colorful shirts
to jam out to on our episodes,
but today we're gonna have an ex-Muslim
and we're gonna take calls from Muslim callers
and we're gonna have conversation.
Why do they believe what they believe?
And then maybe they can ask questions
to Apostate Aladdin, who's our guest.
Why don't you believe?
What makes you not believe?
Well, what is it that you don't buy?
What is it?
So I hope these are friendly conversations
and can show interfaith kind of dialogue.
I hope I'm not coming through too pixelated, everybody.
I need an opinion,
because my internet seems to be a little fuzzy here.
I'm looking on YouTube and it's looking still,
looking kinda fuzzy.
So, all right, not too, too bad, but I'm here.
Anyway, let me introduce our guest, Apostate Aladdin.
Welcome, my friend.
Hey, everyone.
Thanks for the introduction.
Yeah, absolutely, man.
Look, a lot of people, a lot of people
who are in the Believer's camp,
they go, well, why do you interview all these ex-Muslims
as if they're gonna give you the truth?
As if they know better, if they know the answers.
It's not always that ex-Muslims
have more accurate information,
just like not every ex-Christian accurately understands
the biblical stuff,
giving you historically accurate material.
Sometimes they give you what I think is the real observation
of the material we're looking at,
or at least from a modern perspective,
how morally or backwards ethically some things might be.
But in other cases, not necessarily.
So that's not why I have them on.
I can relate to the experience of leaving the faith.
It's a weird, wild trip.
So if someone who's been in is looking at it going,
why, why, why?
They just don't understand.
It's a whole different paragogicals that they're wearing.
So Apostate Aladdin, introduce yourself while I tell everyone
I command them to go and subscribe to your YouTube channel.
If they don't, they will find you.
Go ahead, tell us who you are, my friend.
So that's an interesting strategy.
I should use that more often.
You should, I mean, people believe,
look, people are afraid of what might come, right?
Right.
Yeah.
So as you can see, this is my channel.
My name is Apostate Aladdin.
I make videos about my journey out of Islam
and videos where I critique certain things about Islam.
And I hope to come with a different approach
than what has already been done.
So part of that means that I have almost weekly
or bi-weekly live streams where I talk to believers.
And the purpose of my talks with them is not to debate
with them about the truthfulness of Islam
or specific things about Islam.
Though sometimes I have those live streams as well
where I ask them to correct my understanding
of a certain topic.
But most of the time I'm talking to believers of all faiths,
including Muslims, to understand what makes them believe.
What do they believe exactly?
Because something that I've often heard as a opposition
to our existence online as ex-Muslims is
that we're unfairly representing Muslims
and unfairly representing Islam.
I do my research to make sure that as best as I can,
I'm not misrepresenting any information
that I show in my videos.
But more importantly, I bring on Muslims
to represent themselves.
Because my channel really isn't about painting people
in a certain light or unfairly vilifying anyone.
I want people to tell me what they believe.
And that way, maybe we can find a better common ground
than the current situation.
So that's a bit of an overview of who I am and what I do.
Do you have any questions for me, Derek?
Yeah, I want to start off in case our new viewers are,
checking us out, like Ryan here, for example.
Why is he wearing a mask?
Now, it's an interesting question, right?
Because most people who've watched my channel
know that I'm critical of Christianity.
I mean, dude, I don't know many people who are as critical
and who dive into actual critical scholarship
on the level that we do on a myth-vision
and as often as we do.
So if I came, let's just give you an example.
If I started doing streams,
and notice I actually bought this in Israel
when I was actually rocking a suit,
is literally one of my desert suits.
But if I always started wearing a mask, right?
People might start asking,
hey, Dee, why are you hiding your face?
And the most common answer would be,
I don't want you to know who I am or see me or identify me.
Now, the real question is, why?
I mean, why would you not want people to see you?
And look at your name.
There's no way your mother named you Apostate Aladdin, right?
Yeah, no, Apostate is my dad's name.
I'm just kidding.
Right, right, right.
I, well, I wear a mask because of anonymity
because it's happened many times.
People who are more in the spotlight than I am,
people who might have been more critical of Islam
or maybe just as critical of Islam as I,
but they just happen to gain more mainstream attention,
they end up being in harm's way,
because a lot of people don't like blasphemy,
to the extent that they take it as a personal insult,
like the most common objection I get about,
say for example, a video where I draw the Prophet,
not in an insulting way,
but in a way that makes light of a story
where the Prophet was one of the characters,
I would get told, how would you feel
if I insulted your mother and your father and so on?
They fail to see that not only am I not really insulting
the characters that I am drawing or narrating,
but it's not personal.
It's not about them.
They choose to make it about them.
So unfortunately, I have to make sure
that I'm not identified as best as I can.
So I don't get harmed.
And so people who I care about by extension
don't get harmed as collateral damage.
And one advantage that wearing a mask has had
is it's a great way to keep this separate
from my personality,
in the sense that my personality shows on stream.
When you talk for hours and hours on end,
as Derek can tell you, this is who you are.
You can't put on an act.
Like you just end up telling people
exactly how you behave every day.
But the cool thing about wearing a mask is,
this channel isn't about the guy behind the mask.
Like not really.
I don't really have an ego about this channel.
I don't want fame as a person.
I don't want people to be able to see me
walking down the street and say,
hey, I like that guy or hey, I hate that guy.
This is purely about what I'm talking about.
So in a sense, it also helps me put a layer between me
and any kind of insults or vicious attacks that I get.
Because I understand that it's not really
about the guy behind the mask.
It's about this character that they hate.
So, yeah.
And it's also made me feel a lot better.
Sorry.
I see that common theme even with sometimes ex-Christians
who are not ex-Christian Christians who might write.
Sometimes there's threats.
They don't seem as realistic at all,
as far as I'm concerned,
to the kind of threats that you would obviously get.
Because there seems to be real data backing that
on a daily in the world for people who are blaspheming
or don't believe or say something that came out wrong.
There's all sorts of stuff that happens.
But Christians themselves who might see me and go,
who's this horrible guy?
I can't stand this person.
They actually see me and kind of know me
through watching me long enough.
But then a lot of them who get to meet me will be like,
this guy is almost a saint.
This guy helps drug addicts all the time.
This guy actually helps people.
He's trying to be a good person.
He's a great dad.
He's a great father.
He's a great husband.
He's a, so they don't really know you.
Anyway, and you keep that safety net up.
Yeah.
And it's very telling that the only features
that they can see about me
is what some people insult me with.
You know, like they'll pick whatever they see
and be like, your forehead is so and so.
And I'm like, okay, that's definitely not personal.
You're just reaching for whatever you can see.
So I like showing them less
because in a sense now I don't have to deal with insults
about how my, you know, my mouth looks,
how my face looks and so on.
Right.
Yeah.
But anyway, I'm not complaining too much.
It is what it is.
I mean, we were just talking about this before the stream
and I was thinking it's funny
how it's almost automatic for me at this point.
And for you, it's still surprising.
Like, why is this guy wearing a mask?
This should, this says a lot.
For me, it's just a fact of life, unfortunately.
But I hope that changes in the future.
That's what I was saying.
We have a problem, a huge, huge problem.
I can't, look, I cannot imagine
that you're any more critical of your religion
that you left than I am of Christianity.
I can't imagine that you're like more critical.
And I don't live with that threat.
I mean, I've had a few people threaten me,
but it wasn't just Christians.
Like, you know, I've had several,
I've even had Muslims who emailed me.
I've had Jewish people threaten me
because they saw some of my stuff
that was really highly critical of Yahweh,
the Hebrew scriptures,
and they're like, you had Rabbi Toviah seeing her on.
How dare you?
How could you dare talk about Yahweh this way when you've had?
And it's like, bro, check yourself.
You know, anyway, email them back and it was nuts.
But today, we wanna have conversation
with hopefully mature people who are in the faith of Islam
to have the conversation with you
about why they believe what they believe.
And you and them will carry on that conversation.
I hope to, you know, be a referee, so to speak,
not get it too involved.
But if I feel like someone's being rude, threatening
or any crazy stuff or they're over talking, I'll mute them.
I'll try and give them a warning.
Then from there, it's the boot and I'll just kick them out.
So I'm not gonna hold any, I'm not even gonna sit here
and I don't care if you've been on before.
If you're Muslim and you've been on before,
like be respectful, just show that you're being mature
and have the conversation.
So are you only wanting Muslims calling in?
For today, I suppose, yes.
I mean, I usually take callers of all faiths,
but since I'm here and since I'm assuming
you get more Christian callers than Muslim callers usually,
it would be interesting to have
mostly Muslim callers today.
And I was gonna say, feel free to interject
in the conversation and ask a question to me
or the speaker as well.
Okay, I want you to participate with us.
Okay, I just didn't wanna override, but I will.
I'll just be me, I'll just be me.
So I don't know who this apostate prophet is in the chat,
but already getting threats, bro.
Check yourself, Bifo, you wreck yourself, I.
You all witnessed this.
Someone called the CIA, the FBI,
the whatever the three letter words
for the organizations are, get them, get them.
Someone's saying I'm looking fuzzy.
They can't handle you at 4K, so it's for the best.
That's what it's gotta be.
It's gotta be the, I don't know why
I'm coming to do like that though, this is not good.
I'm coming through fuzzy, I am.
All right, you're gonna have to tolerate my ugly mug.
All right, here we go.
I'm sending the invite, please Muslim people,
Muslims, call in, nobody else, at least for now.
I mean, if we open the door, I'll open the door,
but I'm only doing one at a time.
Please subscribe to his YouTube channel.
My internet sucks today, forgive me.
Let me try and hit a pin on this so that people can do this.
Actually, let me redo that, let me redo this.
Let me put, Muslims, all caps,
cause someone's not gonna listen.
Someone's gonna come in the chat.
They're not gonna be a Muslim.
They don't give a crap about what I'm asking them
to please respect.
Muslims, please, hold me.
Okay, now, you would be surprised how often I get that.
Like I'd have a live stream just for ex-Muslims
and I'd get believers calling at the same time
or vice versa, but it happens, it's okay.
Not everyone's always paying attention
to everything we say, we can live with that.
True that, true that.
I friggin deal ya.
I'm hoping people will and my computer internet sucks.
So maybe someone's trying to hide my identity
along with you here, I don't know.
Let's hope someone will call in.
So before we do that, I do wanna plug one more thing
and I did send out and pinned it in the chat.
So if you're a Muslim, I saw a few Muslims
earlier talking about everything you said
has been debunked and like nothing you've ever said
is, I don't know, you can tell some people
just are trying to cope.
It's, I don't know, I hear it with Christian apologists
sometimes or at least they're audience members.
Everything he says, nothing, it's all BS,
that kind of thing.
So I'm curious to know if you think that,
then come on and have the conversation.
Yes, I did pin it, someone said.
And I said Muslims please only and then boom.
There it is.
All right, what I was gonna share,
other than your YouTube was you have a Patreon.
What do you do with your Patreon?
Yeah, so thanks for bringing that up on my Patreon.
I have some perks, like sometimes I have early access
for the videos that I'm working on.
Sometimes I have behind the scenes,
you know, peaks of what's coming up
or how I came up with the idea or the process.
Sometimes just pictures of my cats.
Sometimes it's, no, no, I don't think they are.
Yeah, but tell a possible prophet if he's scared,
he should join the call.
Or is he too scared to join the call?
I guess we have beef now.
Oh, he scared, he called you out AP.
Yeah, no, I'm joking guys.
What else do I do on my Patreon?
Oh yeah, recently I was just telling Derek,
recently I started doing a group call
for patrons and YouTube members
where we just sit and chat and it's not,
it's kind of like a live stream,
but I don't live stream it anywhere.
So that's another perk.
But I found that a lot of people,
like a lot of people, they subscribe to my Patreon,
just because they want to support what I do.
Like they don't even pay attention to the perks.
I try to give some people some perks
and I need to do a better job of it.
But I find that a lot of them say it's just a bonus, man,
like we just want to support you.
And it makes me tear up, you know, how sweet that is,
how much they actually care
and how they're doing it out of the goodness of their heart,
you know, for nothing in return.
And I really appreciate that.
So anyway, thank you for reminding me
because I always really forget to plug my Patreon.
So I can use some tips for you.
If it weren't for it, I wouldn't be able to do what I do.
So I have one as well.
And in case you were curious, the 169 people watching,
I have probably uploaded, I'd say 40 to 45 videos
in the past week and a half to Patreon
and to the YouTube membership side.
So if you're curious to watch like,
I don't know, there's 17 videos I did with Richard C. Miller
that have not been made public that are on my Patreon
or on the YouTube membership side.
Those are accessible.
I did a ton with Dennis.
I have, I'm actually editing 20 Patreon questions
with Dennis McDonald.
I've already uploaded just before the stream
uploaded a sixth one.
So we have 14 more to go with that.
I have a ton of Kip Davis ones.
Those are coming.
You get the picture.
So you can help support us.
We've got a lot of stuff here.
Imitating the Greeks, the myth of hell,
how hell's a mythology and it's been used and why.
Plato's cave, the tricksters, the gospels, Christian origins,
that Jesus even exists, telemarketers for Jesus.
You're gonna wanna check that one out.
He's a God, because his body goes missing Jesus,
missing body in the gospels, Mary Magdalene.
And it goes on and on and on.
In fact, I gotta drop this one soon.
This is about the curse tablet they recently found,
how it's not to be taken so seriously.
It goes on and on.
Anyway, join the Patreon, help support us,
Apostate Aladdin and me, Derek Lambert.
All right, I did get a super chat
and we got one person in the queue.
Please bear with us.
I'd prefer if people had video,
but if we don't have video, I guess I'll have to pop them up
and then just make you full screen, Apostate Aladdin.
Sound good to you?
Yeah, sounds good to me.
I don't wanna risk,
I don't wanna risk any trolling happening
or something happening, you know what I mean?
You know sometimes how they get ya
is they're gonna pretend that they're another YouTuber.
So they would use the picture and name of a YouTuber.
So then you would think, oh, it's that guy, I know that guy.
But it turns out it's a troll, so careful of that.
Just gotta be careful.
MG Bilby, thank you so much for that super chat.
What do you think of Shoemakers 2022?
You see Pressbook creating the Quran,
arguing the canonical text of the Quran
was most likely produced only around
the turn of the eighth century.
I haven't read it, so I can't really make any comment.
I don't know how convincing it'll be
in the scholarship there.
I've had comments from other academics
that I've been talking to that are
like more secular Western scholars
who aren't convinced by his arguments.
They understand what he's trying to say.
They're more convinced that it's actually
somewhere around the time of Uthman.
Doesn't change much in my opinion.
I could see how someone might be anti,
like ready to argue against it,
debunk it, might wanna see the later date
help them in their argument.
Cause a lot of Muslims try to argue
we have reliable stuff that goes back really early.
Apologizing the Christianity to the same thing.
But I don't know enough to be honest
and I'm no expert or scholar.
I'd be curious to know after reading it
and then maybe asking some of my friends
who are more into that particular area
what their thoughts and why they're critical of it.
Maybe read some critical reviews.
That might be something I might do.
Have you actually looked into that?
No, I can't say I have.
So again, I can't comment on something that I don't know
but I have just looked it up right now.
So hopefully I'll get to reading it at some point soon.
I think it's worth checking out.
It's worth reading.
Yeah, I have no idea who that person is.
So I've heard that name, but I need to look into it.
So thanks to the commenter.
Shoemaker has some really good books I love.
I have not read this one.
So he's definitely worth reading in my opinion.
And he's coming at it from more of a secular
not coming at it with I need to go based on the narrative.
I need to go on what the, you know,
the surah as soon as the whole nine,
like I don't need to go off of the Islamic narrative
and necessarily he'll fact check and bounce it off of that.
There's also extra non Islamic sources
that he at least is factoring into the conversation
to help maybe see what the reality is
of a situation, et cetera.
Thank you so much for that MG.
And then Becky D decided she wanted to have apotheosis
one day by joining the membership program on MythVision.
Look, we've got a ton of videos you can watch.
All right, let's get to our caller here.
I'm gonna pop them up
and then I'm gonna pop you full screen.
Is that cool?
Sure.
All right, here we go.
Trojan, please tell me you are Muslim.
Yes.
Thank you for calling into MythVision.
Feel free to have a conversation with apostate Aladdin.
Hi, Trojan.
So first of all, I wanted to know,
are you familiar with my channel?
Have you heard of me before
or is this your first time joining?
No, this is the first time.
Okay.
Well, I hope you heard the introduction
that I said in the beginning, but if you haven't,
just so you know, I am an ex-Muslim
who makes videos about Islam
and I have live streams where I discuss with believers,
what do you believe and why do you believe it?
So if that is a conversation that you're interested in,
I would love to know what you believe, I'm assuming Islam,
and why you believe that it is the truth.
Yes, I do believe in Islam.
The reason I believe in Islam,
first of all, I would say I believe in existence of God.
Yeah, from there I'll start.
I believe in Islam's monotheistic model,
I believe in monotheism.
And as far as many people's objections
to Islamic concept of hell and heaven,
I believe there's a lot of evil in the world
and justice cannot be served in this world
because many evil people reign on this world
and many innocent people do not get what they deserve.
So believe there has to be afterlife
for there to be proper justice,
for there to be compensation for good and evil,
and there to be justice.
Okay, well, I wanna start by telling you
that I agree with part of what you said.
So we're already kind of on the same page
about something here.
Not the part about God existing or monotheism.
I'm not sure if God exists or if there is a creator.
I don't know how the world came to be.
And I don't know if monotheism is logically
the most obvious or the most sensible one.
Like I don't think there's reason to believe that,
but I won't really get into those.
I want to begin by talking about what you said about justice.
I agree with you there that in this world,
there won't be ultimate justice.
There are a lot of people who die without getting justice
and a lot of people who go through hardships
and some people who cheat others and they get away with it.
Where I disagree is that there has to be justice
and therefore there has to be an afterlife.
So why do you think that there must be an afterlife
to make it fair?
Is it not likely that this is actually an unfair life
and that's it?
I'm not a materialist.
I believe there is something to this world after this,
after the death of a human being,
there is something after that.
I believe, I don't believe,
there is simply only material things.
I don't believe in this.
I believe in supernatural occult.
I believe in this.
So what makes you believe that there is an afterlife
and there is supernatural occult things?
Because I have felt something like that.
I've felt personally in my life,
I've felt you could call it some supernatural experience
or something out of world experience,
something like that.
Can you tell me more about that?
How about that experience?
Yeah, for a, I think for a few years,
I quite often have quite vivid dreams,
vivid dreams about what I could say
about end of the world, something like that.
End of the world.
You know what, me too.
I used to when I was a believer.
Yeah, and actually even when I,
towards the end of my journey out of Islam,
I still had these dreams about the end of the world
and so on.
So what makes you know that there,
it's a sign of what's to come
rather than your brain interpreting the things that you know
or things that you believe into a dream?
I don't add too much to this dream,
but other than that, I see what goes around in the world.
I see all this, I see so much evil in the sense.
I see so much evil in politics.
I see so much, so many people in position of power lying.
They say they care about people.
They're just putting on the face.
I see that,
that they know something, but they don't express it.
They, they're just trying to follow an agenda.
That's why I feel there's something to,
something to, something to things which is on the surface,
it might not look like something like that is true,
but behind there is something.
That's what I do.
With you, that there's a lot of injustice in this world.
There is a lot of people who cheat and lie and are unfair,
but how does that mean?
How does that necessitate that there must be an afterlife
to deal with it?
Well, you could say, I believe in the promise of Quran,
what you know, what this words,
the Quran, it says it's a promise who believes in God
and the afterlife and does good deeds,
they will get their reward.
That's what I believe.
That they will not be treated unjustly.
That's what I believe.
Okay, so I, you said that you believe in something
because it's in the Quran,
but you believe that the Quran is a source of information
from God because you already are a Muslim.
So do you see how that kind of feeds into itself?
No, it's not just because Quran says I,
it's because of what I've experienced in life.
That's why I trust Quran in that sense.
I'm trying to understand what that experience is
because the reason why I ask so many questions about it
is even when I was a believer,
I wanted to know how to quantify,
how to list, how to categorize
what makes Islam believable or true.
So I can transfer that information,
that knowledge to other people who aren't believers.
So I'm trying to understand in your scenario,
what is that experience or what does that look like?
And you said that would be because of dreams
that you have about the afterlife, right?
Yeah, first of all, I would say,
I'm not proud of the mainstream Islam.
Actually, even I believe in a version of Islam,
which is quite heretical to the mainstream Islam.
Even my family, family didn't like what I was doing
and they started persecuting me in some sense.
And I still believe in this version of Islam.
That's why, there are reasons why
I believe in this version of Islam.
What do you mean by this version?
Version, it says that in the version or in the sense,
I don't believe in the hadith, that's all.
Okay, so how do you inform the Quran, for example?
How do you understand the Quran without the hadith?
There's no need for the background, I just read the Quran.
I see Quran as a signpost, it's like,
people always complain that Quran is all jumbled up,
all the stories, it goes from one point to other story
and that Quran is not like other books like Bible,
it goes in order with the story,
you can see what happens in the story.
But I say Quran as a signpost,
each verse is pointing to other verses in some other chapters.
That's why, I see some beauty in Quran, that's why.
No, my question is, how do you understand the Quran
without the hadith?
So I'm assuming that you read the Quran in English
or some translation of it in English, right?
Yeah, I read it in English.
So do you know where the translation
or the tafsir, the exegesis, do you know what informed that
or how did they arrive at that?
Yeah, I use a translation from a website
called Quranite.com, basically it's the owner
of the website who has translated the Quran,
he has rejected traditional Islam
and used his own methodology to arrive at translation
of the Quran and he says there's not necessary
to use hadiths to know what is the message of Islam,
basically it's given in Quran.
You can check, I've typed it in the chat,
the website from where I've taken the translation.
But you said that this guy has a reliable method
of interpreting the Quran without the hadith.
Do you know what that method is?
Yeah, in the website he claims that he uses
a harmonitical method, basically using Quran's own internal
internal wordings and methods, I mean usage of words
to interpret Quran rather than using hadiths
which interpret Quran's words.
Like some words in the Quran are tried to be explained
using the word to the hadiths instead of using the hadiths
trying to use Arabic, old Arabic dictionaries
and Quran's own methodology of using the words
in the Quran, for example, Salam.
But there's a lot of things that you wouldn't,
there's nothing in the Quran that explains
the other part of the story.
Like you wouldn't understand that story
without having the hadith or a seerah.
So have you actually looked into his methodology
and looked into all the examples
or do you take it on faith that he figured out a way
without the hadith?
I have read some, many times this version of,
I mean the translation of the Quran
and I don't find anything wrong in the methodology.
He just, he's not voting.
How would you know if something is wrong?
Like what would it look like if you found something wrong?
I don't find anything wrong, but I don't know.
I understand that, but I mean,
like can you give me an example of
if you found something wrong, what would that look like?
How would you know that something is wrong?
No, I actually basically look all the translation
like the Sahih International and other translation
and compare it with this Quranite.com version.
And I find-
But all these other translations,
they use the hadith to arrive at those translations
in the back story.
Yeah, but in the Quranite.com translation,
it tries to minimize as much as the influence of hadith
because in Quranite.com translation
considers hadith to be unreliable.
So-
I think we're speaking past each other here.
So I'm asking you,
so you say nothing looks like it's wrong.
You didn't find anything wrong with it.
And I'm asking you,
how would you know if something is wrong?
And you say that it's by comparing the other translations
of Sahih International and so on
to the one on the website that you use, Quranite.
But if you're comparing,
so basically you're seeing if everything agrees
with the translations that already use the hadith.
So how is that any different from just using the hadith?
I trust the website owner.
Even when he has his own YouTube channel,
he has presented his views in the YouTube channel.
And also I agree with him on other topics.
So I trust his work on the translation.
I don't know Arabic.
I don't know how to translate it.
I don't know how is more correct than others.
But I trust him because of his views
which has views and his opinions which align with mine.
That's interesting that you said that.
So you're aware that you trust him
because his views align with yours.
Do you see how that could be almost a circular way
to look at it where you follow him
because he already says what you like,
not because what he says makes more sense
than the people who follow the hadith.
You know what I mean?
No, it's not just about Quran.
It's about other aspects of life.
Not just about Islam.
About other aspects of life.
I understand that, but how does agreeing with him
or trusting his opinion on other things in life say,
I don't know, say for example,
family and friendships and so on,
how does that affect the truthfulness
of what he's saying about the Quran?
You've got to take a leap of faith.
Sometimes even your family members
may be wrong on things.
But even a stranger might,
however far he may live,
he might have the right opinion.
It matters, it resonates with the heart, I would say.
What was his journey, his opinions over the years.
Over the years, I agree with that.
I trust his opinions.
It's interesting to me that you're aware of that.
So you know that because you trust him,
because you like that person,
you trust his opinions on many things,
you trust his verdict on the hadith
and his verdict on these translations
of the Quran without the hadith,
even though you don't know anything about them,
just because you trust him in other areas.
Did you see, is that a good method
to determining the truth about things?
I wouldn't say for others,
but I consider this to be fine for myself.
Is that how you use, I might know the answer to this,
but do you use this method to determine the truth
or what to believe in other things in life,
not just religion?
No, I wouldn't say that.
So just so you know,
there's a few other callers in the queue
because you can't see that on your in apostate.
I figure I'd just let you know.
So you let me know.
Thanks for the heads up.
So to the caller asked,
do you have any questions for me
as someone who has left the faith?
Yeah, I wonder why you left the faith,
what you thought the wrong is the faith.
So I found, I don't know if I'll have enough time
to have a discussion about this with you
because we are ending the call soon,
but I'll tell you that I've always found issues
with Islam, things that didn't add up
or didn't make sense.
And one of the big issues to me was
the contradictory nature of predestination,
the God, God knowing what's gonna happen
or writing your destiny and free will,
people having the free choice to follow Islam or not.
And I learned that belief is not a choice,
is not an active stubborn choice.
So for example, you believe what you believe
because the person who gave you those beliefs
or shares them with you is someone that you trust.
And I recognize that that's how humans operate
including myself, that's, you grow up,
you learn things from people you trust
and you make those your beliefs.
It doesn't really have to do with the truthfulness of it.
So when I see that mechanism and I see that
had you been born somewhere else
or had you been in a different environment
and the person, the YouTuber that you liked
who gave the translation of the Quran that you like,
had that been someone who's giving you a different religion?
You probably would have followed it too,
whether it's in the same language that you speak or not.
And do you deserve to go to hell
for being someone who trusts other people?
I don't think that's a good reason
to send disbelievers to hell.
And that was one of my biggest problems with Islam
and that's when I concluded that the fairness
that is presented as a lobbying the ultimately just
is not, it's contradictory to his nature.
And yeah, that's just one of the reasons
why I find Islam to not make sense.
I hope that answers your question.
Trojan, I appreciate you coming in here, man.
I'm gonna move to the next caller.
I really appreciate you.
Okay, thanks.
Thank you, thanks Trojan.
Take care.
Sorry, I wasn't trying to be rude.
We've got a few other callers.
I'd rather try to keep the wheels turning,
but he wasn't really saying much at the end.
Maybe he's thinking heavy.
Maybe he's thinking, what do I say back?
Or maybe he's sincerely kind of thinking
about what you said, I don't know.
It's hard to change one's beliefs.
And it's not like something for me,
it wasn't just a mental scent.
There was a process of me having to really chew on
what I was either doubting or what the issue was.
And really, it took me a process
to finally come to a different conclusion
because I had so much of my life and everything invested.
And I'm sure you can relate.
Yeah, it looks like we're clear.
Oh God.
Just gotta clarify something.
I don't expect anyone to change their beliefs,
especially not during the duration of the conversation.
But it's good to have an open mind
and to at least be open to the possibility
that you might be wrong.
And that includes me.
Every new person that I talk to,
I'm open to the possibility
that they're gonna prove me wrong about something
or I have the wrong belief or the wrong opinion.
So I'm okay with people ending up with a disagreement.
That's fine.
I appreciate the caller for telling us
what he believes and why.
So yeah.
Thank you.
And just so you know, there's three callers in the queue.
So none of them have cameras ready.
So I'm gonna have you on the full screen here
until we get a camera or something.
I don't know.
But yeah, next caller is named Muslim.
Hello.
Yeah.
Hello, Derek.
I would just like to ask why do you get keep the fact
that Christianity was made by Jewish kikes?
Also, hell Adam Green, you need to kill yourself.
Damn.
Wow.
Wow.
What in the world was that?
And he waited for a while to say that.
He literally put his name as Muslim
and then he came in like he's, you know,
but there are a bunch of anti-Semites.
Right.
So these are people who literally wanna say everything,
Islam, Christianity, you name it.
It's all controlled by the Jews.
In fact, today, what goes on in today, if it's bad,
Jews are probably behind it.
That's how far a lot of their conspiracy theories go.
But this guy, why do you gate keep this guy?
Gate keep.
The guy can't even keep his own YouTube channels.
Like if you can't stay on the internet
and you have to find little rabbit holes
on dark web sites or sub sites that'll allow you,
you should look in the mirror.
Don't look to me.
Just because I'm not gonna tolerate your Nazi bullshit
doesn't mean, you know.
So anyway, sorry we got derailed from the conversation here,
but you know, next caller I hope is actually Muslim
and please, I hope we can have a good conversation here.
All right, here we go.
Newman. Hey man, how's it going?
Hello, can you hear me?
Sorry about that, my friend.
You had to hear that, I apologize.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, we can hear you.
Ah, fine, great.
I have to keep my voice a bit low
because it's almost one o'clock in the morning
and my kids are sleeping.
So I apologize if you don't hear my voice that clear.
So in any case.
We hear you just fine.
I start from, yeah, should you ask me a question
or should I ask you questions?
Sure, I'll start by asking you,
are you familiar with my channel
or did you hear me talk about what it is that I do
and who I am?
No, not at all, sorry for that.
No, that's okay.
So I just like to give you a little bit of background
since I know about you that you're a believer,
you don't know me yet.
So I am someone who has left Islam, my name is Alaeddin
and I have a channel where I talk about challenges
that people have faced for leaving the religion
and being open about it.
And I critique the religion as well in some of my videos
and I have live streams where I speak to,
some live streams I speak to ex-Muslims,
some of them I speak to believers, including Muslims.
And this is similar to those live streams
where I ask them, what do you believe
and why do you believe that it is the truth?
So that hopefully sets the tone for what it is
that we're here to talk about.
And of course, if you have questions for me,
I'm open to that as well.
So given what I said, does this seem
like an interesting conversation to you
and would you like to give it a shot?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
So I'd like to know what you believe
and why do you believe that it is true?
So basically I'm Muslim.
To give you a background, I'm a Palestinian Muslim.
So it's a matter of like the environment,
it's Islamic one in this sense,
but I was born in Germany.
So basically the family, the parents were Muslims
but the environment is not as such.
It's mainly secular, as you know.
So the thing is, of course, I can speak and read Arabic
and reading the Quran and the Sunnah,
it's not sort of, let's say, an emotional decision,
it's more intellectual.
So I read a bit, I heard your last comments
about Qadar and Qadar, which surprised me
because I find no contradiction in that.
So I really wonder how do you understand it
and how normally in Islam,
what do you think Islam says about Qadar and Qadar?
Sure, we could talk about that
because I'm curious to know how those two
are compatible to you.
But I wanna know about what you said.
So you say that you are a Muslim for intellectual reasons,
right, not emotional reasons is what you said.
So can you explain that a little bit more?
Like how did you become a Muslim?
Well, of course, I mean, the thing is,
you are raised as such in a family,
but when you get, like, let's say older with time,
you try to understand it, understand the concept behind it,
and therefore you approach it
not from emotional point of view,
it's more intellectual, philosophical, for example.
So you start with the question, does God exist
and how you can approach this issue?
So you start thinking or searching,
looking for the claims of atheism,
atheists, for example, what they say.
So there is no clear answer for that.
So then you say, okay, most of the atheists,
they say it's empirical evidence.
Well, how can you use this, let's say,
kind of empirical evidence to measure the metaphysics,
which is kind of, I mean, it's not this appropriate measure.
So the thing is, when I search for these existential questions,
I look and try to deduct the answers.
So probably you heard of philosophical approaches
such as contentancy argument,
Kalaam and cosmology argument.
Yeah, I wanna pause you there
because I am not usually interested in discussing
the existence of God as a concept.
So I wouldn't even challenge your position there
that there is a God.
So I'm more interested in how you go from that
to concluding that it is Islam.
But I wanna comment on one thing that you said first
because you had mentioned that how do you use
empirical evidence to measure the metaphysical?
Well, the metaphysical, I mean,
we don't even know that it exists.
So that question is almost, it doesn't really make sense to me.
How do you use empirical evidence to measure something
that we don't know if it exists?
So first we would need to prove that the metaphysical exists
and then we can say, well, it does exist
and it's not measurable using empirical methods.
You get what I mean?
Well, as you know, metaphysical thing is,
it means not like kind of supernatural.
It's not a natural phenomena.
In this sense, you cannot measure it empirical
in an empirical way because empirical way means
you have to use like, you know, the five senses in this sense.
How do you measure the metaphysical then?
How do you know that it exists and how do you measure it?
You come to it.
I mean, the thing is, you follow these arguments.
You cannot get something which exists out of nothing.
If you say you can, then you have to prove it.
The claim?
I wouldn't go down that line of discussing, you know,
that the world came out of nothing because...
Back to my argument, I'm telling this why,
because you asked me how did I reach Islam?
So I took it, my way was on this path.
First of all, to ask, does God exist?
And if he does, what are his attributions in this sense?
And then...
What is it of his?
Why are we assuming God's gender?
You know, because he's an Arabic, as you know, we say,
it doesn't mean like it's a masculine.
It means in the kind of not neutral term in this sense,
because as you know, in Arabic, Allah as creator has no gender.
So it's not masculine or feminine.
But he has a lot of qualities
that align more with men than with women.
So, and including the use of male pronouns,
but I understand in Arabic there isn't a gender.
As you know, as you know, in Arabic,
we don't have a pronoun for neutral gender, in a sense.
But in this definition, Allah as a definition,
if you look in any Arabic dictionary,
you will see it has no gender.
This term has no gender.
And anything would be connected to him.
It should be understood in this context.
I, okay, I won't get hung up too much on that,
but so what you say that if God exists,
what qualities would he have?
So how did you arrive?
What are those qualities and, you know,
how do they align with Islam?
So the thing is, then you have to understand,
like if the second step would be,
arguing for God existence.
So for my English, it's not the language I use every day.
It's German, so it takes a bit of time
just to try to make the sentences, but I try my best.
So the thing is, you, the second step will be arriving
to the point where you have argument
for the existence of God.
When you reach it, then the second step will be,
or the third step in this sense,
to find, to like, to arrive to his attribution.
For example, he should be powerful,
because if you have this universe
with all the energy, the thing,
he should be like so powerful
to bring this universe to existence.
And he cannot be like his creation
because the creation is contingent in this sense.
That means this necessary being, the God,
he is like, everything is depending on him.
It can't be anything of his creation.
With this process, you eliminate all the religions
which existing on the face of earth,
because for example, take Christianity.
Christianity says you have Jesus.
Jesus is a part of God as a trinity, in a sense,
though he is not all knowing, not powerful, not whatever,
and he's contingent upon that.
The thing saying, so with this elimination process,
you find this God has certain attribution.
And then you come to the fourth step,
this God, when he made,
can I make that, finish my sentence?
Just so you know, Newman,
you finished quite a few sentences there,
and that you've said so many things.
If this is a conversation,
it'll be very difficult for Aladdin
to know everything you brought up
to kind of highlight where he wants to probe a little deeper.
So like for me, for example,
I'm not even interested in having the discussion.
I want Aladdin in YouTube,
but there are several leaps in logic and leaps,
in my opinion, in the things that you said,
that I would be very questioning about,
and I'm sure Aladdin has questions too.
That's true, sure, go ahead.
I think it's important to have you be able
to just conversate a little bit in the process.
Yeah, and I'll have you know, I do take notes,
so I'm not interrupting too much,
but I feel like at some point,
I still need to pause or else,
five minutes later,
I'll be bringing you back to something
you said five minutes ago.
So I wanted to actually bring in Derek into this.
I'm not sure, so I'm not as familiar with Christianity
as Derek is, of course.
Is that true that of all the religions,
including Christianity,
Islam is the only one that satisfies that criteria,
that contingency criteria?
So as far as, now you're talking about
the fact that Jesus is limited.
Is this what he was bringing up?
I wasn't quite paying attention.
I was listening to the chat.
So yeah, Jesus is limited.
He has limitations.
He's a mortal who becomes a God,
but this also factors into,
in the time and history and place in the world,
where demigods, humans that are born half mortal,
half divine, because God impregnated Mary,
which causes him to be both half and half.
He ends up becoming fully divine post-mortem,
having what's called an apotheosis.
But during his life, he didn't know everything.
Yeah, but his father did, according to the text,
there's this idea that he knows all things.
So God, Jesus is God, actually knew all things and stuff.
So I would paint it in, this is just my thoughts here.
I know there are differences
when you read the Quran 700 years later
on how they're painting God,
but that deity, I would say,
is the same deity ultimately at the end of the day.
The father, you mean?
Yes, the father, the monotheistic deity,
the same one of the Jews, you know, this is...
I totally agree.
Right.
Because as you know, probably you heard this.
Muslims consider Jesus and the other prophets
actually as Muslims.
They didn't bring a new message.
It's the same message throughout the history.
It didn't, like, God gave the same message,
but people with time changed it.
Right, I know that that's the Muslim claim.
Right.
Sure, and substantiated, if you look at the Bible,
like different references, for example,
my father is greater than I without God,
without the father, I can't do nothing.
There are so many statements which indicates
that actually Jesus is just a kind of messenger of this God,
doing all the work that the father
is doing through Jesus, in a sense.
I don't know how that substantiates that Islam is true.
No, I'm not saying that.
I'm saying you brought, you asked Derek
about the contingency of this elimination.
I'm not saying that it's kind of
supporting the claim of Islam.
This is a separate issue.
We discussed how did I arrive to this point?
And the thing is, was the contingency argument,
first you first arrive to the point that there is God
and then the attribution of God.
And after, like, coming to this conclusion,
then you look at all religions, all religions,
you find, like, kind of deficiencies,
because they say that, for example,
and as an example, Christianity,
that Jesus, the limited creation, is part of God,
then, which doesn't fulfill the attribution,
the attribution of God.
So you can eliminate this, like,
kind of with all respect for Christians.
You can then eliminate this religion as a religion of God,
because it's man-made in this sense.
I don't know if I follow that,
but to be honest, I don't really care to, you know,
defend Christianity on that point.
So say that criteria eliminates Christianity.
Exactly.
Sure, let's assume that.
Yeah, go ahead.
So then, for me, if God exists,
it should be, there should be, like,
a purpose for this creation.
So he should communicate with his creation.
Why?
So if God exists, he should communicate.
How did you get a should from the if?
I'm telling, for example, do you know something like,
let's say you have your mobile phone.
So it has a purpose.
This creation also has a purpose.
The one who made the mobile,
the one who made the mobile phone.
We can use examples from real life,
like we can't use amorphous examples to say,
just because we created the mobile phone for a purpose,
therefore, if God exists, we must be created for a purpose.
I don't know if that follows.
Why?
Why it doesn't?
Because you haven't, you gave an example of something.
You didn't really demonstrate that in every instance
of something existing, it exists for a purpose.
You just gave an instance, an example of one thing
that exists for a purpose.
Then give me anything in this creation
which has no purpose.
I mean...
Well, let me ask you this.
I wanna ask you this because they did a psychological,
I can't remember the name of the study on children,
but when they walk up to the kids, they ask the children,
why do rocks exist?
And the children say,
so animals can scratch their backs on them.
Why do rivers exist?
So boats can float down them.
And this was the simple adolescent child's answer
for what the purpose of a river or a rock is.
Now, if I were to ask you, why do rocks exist?
How with your God would you give a meaning to what rocks,
what is the purpose for rocks?
This is quite interesting that you say it like kids,
they ask kids or the kids,
like they have something in their instinct,
always like to give an answer,
which is instinctive in a sense.
Internal, that means this thing to answer,
always to give an answer,
that means there's kind of,
I cannot put it like in like,
you know, it's formulated in English,
but there's kind of inherent in them to search
always for the, let's say, from...
Is that what you're referencing?
Yes, the fitra, exactly.
Here's the thing though.
And when you ask me, like...
Well, yeah, I have to comment on the fitra point
because naming something that already exists
doesn't mean that God made it happen.
So for example, to say that most animals,
most living things have self-preservation to live.
You can't just label that, for example,
label that fitra or something else and say,
see Allah said that they have it.
I mean, kids have a curiosity
and kids have a way of explaining things
and humans have a way of explaining things.
How do you take credit for it and call it fitra?
Like just because it agrees with the definition
that the religion made,
doesn't mean that it actually is attributed
to the religion.
You know what I mean?
The thing is with animals, they don't have fitra
to believe in God in this sense.
The only creation who has this fitra
is human beings in this sense.
For example, you know that there was a study in Japan.
The only living thing that has language
to explain is human beings.
And that's why you think the only creation
that has fitra in that sense is human beings.
But I mean, to point at something,
to point at a phenomenon,
kind of like what Ibrahim did to point at the sun.
Can I make a notice on this?
You know that the fitra,
it's basically that animals,
according to Islamic understanding,
they don't have kind of a choice in this sense,
like intellectual choice to choose,
or shall I do this?
They are programmed in this sense, you know?
For human beings, as you know that the concept of fitra,
according to Islam,
I give you an example.
You know, in Japan,
they made kind of a survey on kids,
and they asked them, like in this survey,
how, like asking about how this universe came to existing,
existence in this sense.
And they gave that this gets the answer of their,
like fitra, that it's God.
And they gave the attribution of God in this sense,
how he is like most powerful, most knowing.
Without, as you know, in Japan,
there's no, it's not Islam is dominating there or whatever.
It's, I think, Shinto and Buddhism in this sense.
Well, I'm not familiar with that study,
but I don't think you get the point here.
Say it is true that most humans, right?
From an unmolested young age,
I mean, like intellectually unattainted
by any ideas about religion,
say we have a tendency to explain things with,
by saying it must be God or something of this sort.
Even if that were true,
that might be more indicative of a certain evolutionary trend
than actually the truth about that God.
Like that's the point that we're missing each other here is,
to point at something, like say the instinct
to do a certain thing or self-preservation
or whatever instinct that already exists.
And to say, my God labeled it or my religion labeled it,
therefore it's true according to my religion,
still doesn't prove how your religion,
like how it is actually true according to your religion,
not that your religion labeled something
that already exists.
I don't know if you're getting what I mean here.
I'm getting what you mean,
but then you are claiming in the sense
the idea of religion came as a process
or byproduct of evolution.
In a sense, yeah. Are you claiming this?
So this is one possible explanation, yeah.
Yeah, but then I would ask you this question,
if it's the case, why is it in like most of the religions,
also Islam, for example, to do adultery is a sin.
While actually it should be according to evolution,
you should spread your, your sperms as much as you can.
And you have a lot of, as you know, like kids.
So this is the mechanism of evolution.
I don't think that's true because I'm still,
I'm not an expert on evolution in any way,
but I'm still...
Yeah, but you brought it to the table.
So let me just make one comment here, Aladdin,
is that it isn't just monotheistic religions
that practice one man, one woman.
Societies at large, pagan polytheistic societies,
predating the Abrahamic ones,
were practicing these kind of marriage type situations.
And I can't say that Islam is not spreading its sperm
and seed all everywhere anyway.
You've got four wives that you can have.
Yes, sure, sure, but why not 20?
I'm just saying there are certain rules.
I mean, for Mohammed maybe, but...
Yeah, Mohammed is not everybody else.
But here's what I want to say about that is,
so I don't think that evolution,
like I don't know, evolution says
that you should have as many kids as possible all the time.
There are mechanisms,
like evolution is not a concrete big thing
that decides on things,
but there are mechanisms through what we call evolution,
where certain species are selective about finding a mate
and they only have one mate.
Like it's not just something that's unique to humans
because God said so.
So I don't see how bringing religion into it
takes claim over monogamy.
I mean, this is quite a bit,
what you now said, it's quite contradictory
to the general theory of evolution,
because actually the strong should survive.
This is the main mechanism.
So you have to, according to the mechanism of evolution,
you have to spread your seed as much as you can
and this is the aim of the,
one of the aim of the mechanism of evolution.
And if you will see, for example.
That's not exactly true.
We're getting off topic because I'm fairly positive
you're not a biologist or aware of evolution.
No, no, not at all.
I read basic stuff about it.
Same here and it sounds like,
I'm trying to say what you're saying.
I'm trying to get on the same page as you in agreement,
but maybe it's the language barrier
that's making me think,
because the strongest is not the one that survives.
It's the fittest, which is the one that adapts
and evolves to its environment best
is the one that's fittest, not the strongest.
And so not always is spreading your seed the best.
I mean, we have animals today that as soon as they have,
they may die on purpose.
They go and they're eaten by their,
I guess you say partner.
There's all sorts of different things that come up.
It's not just about reproduction.
There's a lot more involved into the whole process.
So we're off in La La Land right now
and we got off of Islam and Allah and the Quran
and why the truth, but we do have another caller.
So Aladdin, let me know when we need to switch.
If you want to continue with Newman, let me know.
I'll let Newman continue then
because I was the one who brought up the...
Thank you very much.
I would love to ask you about Qadaan Qadar,
what you just mentioned.
So you were saying something along the lines
that if God knows what is your end,
so you have no free will.
Is that true?
So I'll give you an example of Musa and Al-Khidr.
You know that story?
Musa and Al-Khidr?
Yes.
Musa and he was shadowing a wise man called Al-Khidr
to learn from him.
And the wise man, Al-Khidr said,
you can follow me, but you don't ask me any questions
till I tell you.
So don't ask me any questions,
which I think is a very bad way to teach someone,
but that's besides the point.
One of the things that the wise man does...
Do you know why did he tell him this?
What was the backstory?
What was the reason?
Like, why did Moses meet Al-Khidr?
What was the reason behind it?
No, I know the reason.
There's several variations about the reason.
Either Musa was having a conversation with Allah
and he told him, I want to do better,
I want to be better,
and Allah told him, we'll go to this man and learn.
Or Musa was saying,
I am the most knowledgeable man.
There's multiple versions of it, which is funny.
In one version, he's humble,
in another version, he's arrogant.
Which versions?
What do you mean?
There's a hadith about that,
where Musa is having a conversation with God.
I'm not going to cite it right now,
but I have a video coming up where,
in a couple of days, I will mention that part.
But let me get back to the story here.
So the wise man is teaching Musa things,
and one of the things in the process of his teaching journey,
he kills a child.
And Musa protests, and then after a while,
they just go on with their journey.
And then eventually, the man explains to Musa
why he killed that child.
And he said that this child was going to grow up to be a kafir.
And the hadith says,
He was destined to be a kafir.
So this kid had his fate written before his creation,
because Allah knows the future.
Just like the Quran was written in
before creating the kid,
before creating the verse.
I mean, the verse was written before that kid existed.
So that kid's fate was sealed before he even existed.
It's not even about that kid only.
So if God knows which kids are going to grow up to be kafir,
and in that one case, he intervened,
but in most cases, he doesn't, I assume.
So what does that tell you about free will?
Did that kid ever have free will to not be a kafir?
But the reason that Khuda killed him,
not that this kid would be a kafir.
That's part of the reason.
No, that's not the reason.
Did you read it in Surah Al-Kahf?
Yes, in Surah Al-Kahf.
So what?
Do you know what that means?
I hate the condescending questioning.
No, I'm not considering.
No, I'm telling you, I have a problem with the English in a sense.
So I'm not considering being arrogant or something like that.
There's also a talking over each other too.
I apologize, I misunderstood that.
So yeah, Yurhiqahuma to exhaust them with his disbelief and disobedience,
linking, there's a lot of name calling of like,
disbelievers automatically abathing in Islam, in the Quran.
No, no, no, no.
You said it rightly, exhaust them.
That them, can you tell me please...
The parents, the parents are good believers,
and God and Akhidr feared or disliked that the kid would grow up
to exhaust them with his disobedience and kafir and disbelief.
Exactly.
Thank you.
This is the explanation.
So let me ask you this question.
Imagine this scenario.
You have a knowledge that you meet along the line Adolf Hitler as kid,
and somebody is telling you this thing,
that this kid is going to grow and will kill six million Jews.
I got your question, but I think...
So what would you do in this sense?
I think you demonstrated the point that I was going to make perfectly,
because the Quran does this a lot, this, you know,
bringing up a kafir and just putting another bad quality next to disbelief.
So that kid is going to exhaust them because of disbelief
and because he's a bad person.
So now you're bringing up Hitler,
like you could know that the kid is going to grow up to be Hitler.
So God knows, but God does actually know about the literal Hitler
that was going to grow up to be Hitler.
But in this case, he intervened because he didn't want the parents
to have a kafir kid who's going to exhaust them.
So if God intervenes in that case, why does he intervene always?
So you misunderstood my saying.
The thing is exhausting his parents, the believing one.
That means putting hardship on them probably to the extent of killing them in the future.
This is the thing.
If the kid was, let's say, just being an unbelieving kid,
God wouldn't, like let's say, he wouldn't tell Al-Qadr,
this kid will be just unbelieving.
And that's it.
Therefore, kill him.
It's just being unbelieving.
How did you arrive at that conclusion?
Because the term, yurhiquhuma, the thing is, if you look all the,
let's say the kind of the explanation or exegesis on this ayah,
you will find this thing, this term.
If this kid was just the problem with the kid that he will be in the future,
unbelieving, God will give him the, let's say, the choice to choose,
or let's say, the choice.
You say that with so much confidence.
How do you know that?
I'm telling you, the exegesis of this verse.
I've read the exegesis and it highlights his kafir, his disbelief.
And I think you've missed the point of this, bringing up this example.
No, but I think you missed the point.
If we missed the point, we should move on, Aladdin.
I've got other colors because Newman isn't addressing your questions.
He's responding and dodging, just answering some of the simple questions you have asked.
So I'm not dodging.
I'm not dodging at all.
Well, you're reversing everything that Aladdin is saying and I'm watching it happen.
I'm like, there's questions Aladdin asked and instead it seems that you guys aren't seeing each other on the same page.
And it's a little frustrating for me and many viewers, I'm sure, who are watching in the chat.
I prefer if there's actual answers and not dodging to try and like one up Aladdin on this,
try to understand what Aladdin's asking and why he's seeing it this way.
I think that'll make a better conversation because every time Aladdin goes to talk,
you're jumping in to try and cut him off and it doesn't make for a good conversation.
I'm not cutting off.
Can I give you another example?
This was a good example for demonstrating my point.
It was about free will, right?
Do you think that kid has free will?
Yeah, sure.
To not be a disbeliever.
If God already knew he was going to be a disbeliever and that's why he was killed.
No, not because he is going to be a disbeliever because he is going to kill his parents in the future.
There's no mention of killing the parents in any way.
It is in the exorcism.
I can't guarantee you there isn't.
Arhaq Omar doesn't mean he's going to kill them.
No, exhaust them in this sense, but let me just...
Let me snap to your question.
Just a second.
I want just to mention one thing about like the Qataan Qatar.
He still didn't answer the question though.
Does that kid have free will?
Say it's exhaust him to kill them, which I disagree with.
Does he have free will to not kill them if God knew it was going to happen and that's why he killed the kid?
Okay.
Can I just...
He just asked you a question and you're not answering it.
Yeah, I'm trying.
But you answer it.
You don't need to shout.
I'm saying this has happened multiple times.
I might have to go to the next caller because it's a very simple question and then you're going,
well, let me jump over here or you're doing something different.
I am not jumping.
I want to answer the way I have to answer.
So Aladdin, ask your question one more time and we'll allow Newman to answer your question by directly answering your question and not dodging to another question or trying to do something else.
So please ask that question one more time.
I'm curious to see if Newman answers it.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, so the question was simply, whatever you think the kid was going to do in the future, does he have free will?
If God knew that it was going to happen and the verse was written before the creation of the kid, this verse was written, and then the kid was killed to avoid that future, does he have free will if God already knew?
Yes.
That means when this kid reached that point, he would choose free will to kill his parents.
But God knew that was going to happen and killed him so the kid goes to heaven, right?
The kid doesn't go to hell for the future that he is going to do.
This is why I wanted to make more explanation how you understand it.
You know that time is a physical thing.
It's like space and time.
It's kind of part of our physical world.
Imagine you have a timing machine.
So you know that in Germany, for example, Bayern won the league.
So imagine you were in April and you took this time machine and went to, let's say now this weekend, like the 28th of May, and you notice you see that Bayern is winning.
No, I get your question.
But you're saying you're giving me a hypothetical where there is such a thing as time travel and we travel through time to know about an event in the future.
That would actually make me believe that time is deterministic and people's wills are deterministic.
If I can travel through time and see things happen exactly as they will, then people don't have free will.
It's deterministic.
How come? Because they are choosing.
You choose the moves, you choose everything.
It's based on your decision.
You reach the result at the end, but the choice, you made the choice.
You chose to kick the ball to the right or to kick the ball to the left.
I think we will have to agree to disagree on that because I think that we can be algorithms.
People are algorithms that make decisions and it can be deterministic.
So if I can see in the future a future thing, then everything is going to happen towards that thing to happen.
I don't think that anyone has free will to stray away from the plan, from the future that was written.
But you make your decision at the moment, build upon your conviction.
You have your reason to make your decision.
The end result, it's known to God.
But the choice, you are making the choice yourself.
I don't see that it's deterministic.
I would think that it is.
Anyway, it's probably getting too late here in Germany.
I have to go to bed.
I would suggest, because you see my English language is not the best,
but I would suggest you to get in touch with E.F. Dawa, for example,
and arrange, or Daniel Hackett's Jew in the US,
and arrange with him kind of a discussion, a fruitful discussion.
And it would be nice.
They will be definitely happy to answer your questions,
Apostate Alaeddin, and Derek as well as an atheist.
And then we will be, definitely, it will be beneficial for all of us to see, to find the truth at the end.
Don't you think so?
Well, I'm not interested in the debate.
So when you go to the...
No, not you, not you, not you, not you.
E.F. Dawa's channel, I've seen how they kind of have these discussions.
They turn into kind of a debate.
They try to pin it against you and stuff.
And I'm more into a discussion.
I wouldn't mind have a conversation, but I feel like we're often so...
We're just so far away from each other, epistemologically speaking,
and what we count as evidence that it might be difficult.
But maybe someday, maybe I'll go and I'll venture in and have a conversation and see how it goes.
I don't know. We'll see.
Okay. Or with just the training.
I mean, they are all in, I think, in the U.S. and Canada, so it's not far away.
Gotcha.
But thank you for having me.
Thanks for calling on, man.
Yeah, I really appreciate that.
Thank you very much. Have a nice day.
Bye-bye, bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
Comments?
Yeah, I typically don't like to say too much after a call,
because I don't want to talk about someone when they're not here kind of thing.
I think the call was sincere.
I think we were talking past each other sometimes, but they seemed very sincere and we just don't agree on some things.
And yeah, we would need to talk for longer to talk about the whole free will and predestination thing.
But I don't know if I'm ever going to have a discussion with Daniel Harikachu.
I'm not familiar with the F-dawa, but I don't know if I want to be in the same room or virtual room as that guy who knows.
Yeah, I just want to make this is my comment.
And this is what I was going to say.
Why I was saying comments is that if you try hard enough, you could try and make anything, anything at this point.
Well, he knew all things. He knew they were going to do this.
Why create him to begin with?
Well, he gave him free will.
Like you can have up all sorts of questions that come up.
And I used to do this as a Christian.
So I used to look and go, we have free will, but God knows the future.
So I just kept it on like knowledge base.
He just knows what's going to happen.
He doesn't cause what's going to happen.
He doesn't make sure that the world goes in a direction so that it happens a certain way.
But eventually I started noticing certain passages that very clearly say he does that he is kind of steering everything to go the way that they do.
So then I was like, I have to accept this.
I understand that this is a tough pill to swallow.
But I started reading in some of the New Testament texts and you probably aren't aware of them.
But in Romans chapter nine, Paul gets this hypothetical question he sets up.
Whereas Vera goes, well, if God causes everything, Paul, because that's what Paul's saying, then how can he blame anybody?
Because he's the one doing it.
And Paul's answer is very interesting.
I'm shocked I haven't heard Muslims yet make kind of somewhat a similar claim.
Who are you, oh man, to answer back to God?
Does the thing made have right to say to its maker, why have you made me thus?
Or does not the potter have the right over the clay to make the clay however he pleases?
That's his answer.
His answer is you're just a human.
You're immortal.
You have no right to question God and what God's doing.
So just because God wants to create people that he's going to burn in hell for eternity, that's God.
Now you could see why that would seem unjust to us, but Paul didn't have a problem with that.
And so it's just interesting to hear how there's like this negotiation between free will and predetermination.
And they're trying to make sense of it so that, you know, God gets off the hook for some of those things.
All right.
Next caller.
No camera.
The answer.
By the way, I was just going to say you do hear that.
What you said about what Paul said, you do hear that in Islam as well.
Like it's maybe not always in that tone, but you always hear, well, God can understand things that are beyond your comprehension.
And you are merely a human.
Who are you to question God's way of doing things?
So the caller wasn't saying that, right?
But it does.
It's a very common sentiment.
But yeah, you're saying the next caller has a camera on.
No camera.
If they had a camera, I would love that.
If you have a camera, please.
And real quick, Anas stop insulting Newman.
Who insulted him?
He was nice, but fell to provide logical evidence like most Muslims.
Still, that doesn't give you the reason to be mean.
Maybe there's a language barrier and they don't get, there was no insults.
I'm pointing out free will and predetermination.
Nothing to do with Newman.
Just the point of that argument though, I hear free will and yet determined.
There's something going on.
There's a negotiation.
All right.
Here we go.
Next caller.
Welcome to the channel.
Thank you for being patient.
Hey, caller.
What's your name?
I didn't, I didn't see that.
You're muted.
Yeah.
Let me unmute.
Oh, sorry.
Can you hear me now?
Yes.
Yeah, I can hear you.
That's me.
Yeah.
S.
S.
Well,
Hey, what's up?
You are Muslim, correct?
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us.
You're welcome.
No, no, no problem.
Yeah.
So to sleep.
And then I saw a live with Muslims.
Oh, that's interesting.
It's been a while.
Since the last time Derek.
He did it live with Muslims.
I think the last one was with the.
Selim.
Selim.
I think the guy.
A while ago.
So.
Do you know the format of this conversation or what we're hoping to
achieve here?
It's the, um, that I'm asking, you know, what, what do you believe in why you
believe it to be true?
Yeah, I, I listened to the previous, uh,
Conversations with no man.
And yeah, I'll try to.
To be as constructive as possible in order to discuss these,
these important issues.
So do you have a question or, or I asked my, my first question.
So yeah, I was going to ask you.
So you are a Muslim, obviously.
Um, why do you believe in Islam?
Um, I believe in Islam because it's, uh,
It's evidence based religion.
So, uh, just as a background.
I was born in a Muslim country.
Uh, in a like cultural, uh, Muslim country,
but the family was not a hundred percent Muslim.
So for instance, uh, when you, when used to be Muslim before.
Uh, do you, you used to, to do the prayers, the five prayers?
Uh, sorry, you cut up for a second.
Are you saying, um, I was I Muslim before?
Is that what you're asking?
Yeah.
When you were a Muslim.
Yeah.
Uh, you used to pray the five prayers towards the end.
I wasn't as good as keeping up with the five, but yeah.
And in my family, I grew up, we prayed five every day.
Okay.
So in the family, when I grew up, we, we didn't pray,
for instance.
And as you may know, prayer is the pillar.
If you don't pray, you're not your, you are not actually a Muslim.
But they used to, to, to fast Ramadan, but this is not enough.
You have to, to pray.
And then, uh, we moved to, uh, to the West and, uh, by growing up and
comparing the lifestyle between Islam and, and the West for me,
it was from the, from that first perspective as a teenager that
Islam had a better, uh, standard of, of, uh, of ethics and norms.
And then of course, when you grow up, you study more, uh, history,
the history of religions, comparative history of religions,
the doctrines, the theology of different religions.
And Islam comes up first with its simplicity, its, um, its coherence
and the theology, its coherence in its history, uh, its simplicity
compared to other religions.
So, uh, uh, also it's, as I said in the, in the beginning, there is,
uh, it's quite, uh, logic based, uh, region when, when you,
you, you look into the arguments to, to go back to the,
what you, what you, what you said to Naaman before, I think you,
you, you, you, you fall for the origin bias.
What I mean by that is that it is, it is not because you are born
in a Muslim country or in a Christian country or in a Jewish country
or Hindu or Shinto or any, any, any country that makes the religion wrong.
It is not, uh, because we can, we can say the same today with atheism.
If you, if you live in England or in, uh, in, in the U.S.
in a, in a state or where atheism is, is, uh, is more prevalent in,
in the country, you can say the same.
Oh, you are atheist because you are born in a secular, uh, country.
So, uh, I would say the same.
We can reverse the same thing you can say.
No, I would say the same thing.
I agree.
Yeah.
Like, um, I think a lot of people are irreligious or atheist or whatever it may be
because that's what they grew up with.
So I do agree there.
Yeah.
So the, uh, you, you must be careful, careful with the origin bias.
And, uh, I know that.
Like, I would just, I just want to make it clear.
I'm not saying you're wrong because you grew up in a Muslim country.
And that's why you're Muslim.
I'm saying that is a bias that causes people to adopt their beliefs depending on,
you know, where they live.
So I'm aware of that, even including in irreligiousness or lack of belief in God.
And that is part of the problem is that, you know, if, if you're born in a non-Muslim
community, you're more likely to die a non-Muslim.
And that, that's not really about then, you know, then my problem becomes with the
justice of heaven and hell.
One of the criteria that God uses to judge people is whether or not they died a Muslim.
So someone who grew up as a non-Muslim, even if they've heard of Islam, they're less likely
to die as a Muslim.
That's just statistically true.
So it seems like a bias there that God is sending a lot of people to hell more likely
just because they were born in the wrong area.
That's, that's unfortunately statistics.
I agree.
But also it's related to the, to the laziness of human beings, sadly.
Wait, but I don't know if that's, I don't know if that's accurate.
So how is that related to the laziness of the human beings?
Well, that's, that's pro procrastination.
We all, we all have this issue.
We receive the message of something, anything.
Oh, I'll study that.
Oh, this, this, this seems to be an important thing to do.
I'll study that later.
I'll do that later, later, later until it is, it is too late.
So that's, that's,
Can I read into what you just said a little bit and tell me if I'm right or wrong?
So what you're saying is Islam is the truth and people who live in non-Muslim areas,
they die non-Muslim primarily because humans like to procrastinate because they,
even when they receive the truth, they just don't want to do the work to become Muslim.
And that's why they die non-Muslim.
Is that what you're saying?
Not all, but yeah, big part of people who die as non-Muslims,
they, they just ignore the message.
So he is the thing though.
Don't you see that that's a bias?
Like from your point of view, those people are ignoring a message from their point of view.
There's nothing to be ignored because they already have the right truth.
You know what I mean?
So they're not procrastinating the truth.
They already believe they have the right truth.
They think you're procrastinating the truth, perhaps.
Well, Derek, for instance,
he scratched the surface of Christianity a little bit
and he understood that it was false.
Truth and falsehood can be easily distinguished.
Wait, hold up.
So they think they feel like, yeah.
Sorry to interrupt just because I don't want to lose that point.
You said Derek scratched the truth, the surface of Christianity,
and it's easy to determine it's false.
But if a Muslim was to scratch the surface of Islam and determine it is false,
does that demonstrate to you that truth and falsehood are easy to differentiate?
Usually falsehood is, you can determine it only by scratching.
But in the case of Islam, in my opinion, you have to dig.
Very, very long time in order to find maybe two or three points
where you can slip and people like you, for instance,
can misunderstood and fall for falsehoods such as free will and predetermination.
And with just that little argument, they dismiss all the religion and say,
oh, okay, religion is false.
Let me have my cool life without religion.
God does not exist.
Don't you see that that's contradictory to what you just said.
So that is scratching the surface, right?
If Derek did more than scratch the surface, I'm assuming,
but I'm just going to take that example.
If Derek just scratched the surface and found out Christianity is not true,
to you that is evidence that falsehood is clear.
And he doesn't need to dig deeper.
It's that obvious.
But if a Muslim did the same thing, which is not what I did,
but if I did the same thing, that's evidence that I didn't look deep enough.
Not that falsehood is obvious.
Why is the standard not the same?
Sorry, I didn't understand clearly the question.
Sure.
So if someone scratched the surface of religion and decided or determined it as false,
if that religion is Christianity,
you think that's a reliable method of determining the truth.
But if someone did that with Islam, then you think they're misunderstood Islam.
But it's the same exact action.
So why are you not consistent with that?
Because it's like scratching a plated iron, gold plated iron coin.
You easily can see the iron below.
I want to throw something here that I think is interesting.
And you know how we did the whole where you're from fallacy thing,
the idea of being where you're born by us or whatever.
What's interesting is, Abu,
we have several Christians who've come on the channel and I've had conversations with them.
They do the exact same thing that you are doing to Christianity to Islam.
And they will say the exact same thing.
Like we both agree Islam's false and we don't think it's true.
And I'll go, yeah, I don't think it's true.
And then they'll be like, but Christianity and they think that Christianity is that gold plate.
They think that it is not defeatable.
And you might watch my videos and go, Derek's got some good points against Christianity.
But if I do a video on Islam or I point out how I think the Quran is full of legends.
There are stories that are not historically true or that come from non canonical material or dual chronine.
I say is Alexander the Great that I think the story was well known passed into this period.
I think if I do that, you probably won't agree with me because this is your religion.
You know what I mean?
I just figured I'd point that out because that's exactly what the Christian apologists do when they come on.
As they say, a mind's true and and you know, these guys are wrong or Jews in Judaism.
If they only knew the truth of their own religion, it prophesied the coming Messiah of Jesus.
Just like Muslims might say, the Bible is prophesying Muhammad and you know, there's a constant shifting it onto someone else.
I think Derek, you are doing a very good job regarding Christianity.
But however, you have to be careful not mixing apples with oranges.
When you you criticize Christianity based on archeological finds and like textual comparison between old texts from from the Greeks and from the,
I don't know, the Persian and so on from Gilgamesh story and stuff.
That's for me, that's not solid evidence against Christianity or Judaism.
OK, that's because archaeology is scratching the earth and finding a tooth and say, oh, we found the skeleton of the missing link between apes and humans.
You see that that is not real science for me.
You can like give your opinion about what you found, what you found, but it is not 100 percent true.
You see what I mean?
However, this is this is the point.
Archeology is not science like mathematics.
OK, it's people thinking that's what I found is true.
I'm making an opinion, a conclusion regarding a group of findings they found when they scratch the earth.
I have a question for you.
Sorry, I have a question about what you just said.
And that's why I have to.
Sorry, just let me finish.
Just this point for Derek.
Archeology.
You can take two archaeologists and they have different opinions about something they found like a piece of papyrus and stuff.
However, history, for instance, when you when you read the text from only from the surface of the text, like when you read the Old Testament, then the New Testament.
Clearly, you can see that it makes no sense.
Like the other day, I saw a guy on YouTube defending Christianity.
He was saying that Christianity did not came with a new religion.
In my head, I just tell him, read the Old Testament and then the New Testament, you see that there's nothing in common between between the two.
This is what I need my superficial scratching off of the thing.
Yeah, go ahead.
I have a question about what you just said.
Sorry, I'm not able to hold it in, but what you said some very interesting things.
You said that what Derek is doing, for example, looking at archaeology and then coming up with a conclusion about Christianity.
That's not science, the way that math or chemistry is science.
I'm not quoting verbatim, but that's kind of what you said, right?
Yeah.
So and then you went on to say that, you know, you can have two archaeologists who have two different opinions about something.
You can also have two philosophers who have two different opinions about something.
You could have two historians that have two different opinions about something.
I agree with that.
And to some extent, right, there are a lot of these sciences like archaeology that is not as easy to measure things as clearly as doing a chemical experiment in front of you.
There is a bit of deduction involved.
But here's what I'm going to ask.
Religion arriving at a conclusion about religion involves difference of opinion because it involves philosophy.
It involves archaeology.
It involves history.
The three, the three fields that I just mentioned, if people, if good people can disagree in their conclusions about it, in their pursuit of scientific fact, and they can still disagree.
How do you determine, how does Allah determine that people who disagree with one opinion or another and be the different, you know, arrive at the different conclusion, they deserve to go to hell just because of a disagreement?
Why doesn't Islam have a way of determining that it is true as clear as chemistry or math, as you put it?
I would say that Islam or the Quran, the book of Islam is not, you cannot read like a history book.
It's a revelation-based book.
It's a khabar ghaibi.
I don't know if you understand clearly Arabic.
Khabar ghaibi means basically revelation from God.
And in order to, and that's what the Bible claims to be, khabar ghaibi.
And then what the Christians did is like, they said, okay, the Bible claims to be khabar ghaibi, revelation from God.
Let it, test it with reality.
And they started to read and criticize the Bible and finding stuff that only from the surface made no sense.
And then they went and did archaeology in the holy land and scratched the earth and found that, oh, the Jews said that there are like more than one million in the desert, but we found nothing, stuff like that.
The Quran says they were shir dhima.
Shir dhima means a little group.
So you see stuff like that.
Quran is khabar ghaibi.
The Bible is khabar ghaibi.
You have to test it.
When you test the Quran with reality, you are like 99% of the time having no issues with what the Quran says.
That's not necessarily true though.
I mean, I'll leave the Bible out of it because I really have no interest in defending or critiquing Christianity at the moment.
Just looking at Islam in a vacuum, what you just said is not true.
There are a lot of things in the Quran that don't match reality.
And every time we run into something that doesn't match reality, like Muslims would say, that is something that only Allah knows.
Or Allah knows best what this means.
For instance, mountains or pegs that stop earthquakes, that's not true.
That's geologically incorrect.
Does that count as a mistake in the Quran for you that disagrees with reality?
Have you cut through a mountain?
Have you cut through a mountain?
And so it's side how it is.
Scientists have a very good understanding of how mountains formed and they can measure into that stuff without seeing it with their eyes.
Sometimes they do cut into it, but with ultrasound and other technology.
But let's assume there is nothing in the Quran that disagrees with reality.
Let's assume that is true.
How does that prove that it is a book from God?
It's a book that doesn't disagree with reality.
Does that mean that it's from God?
I said it is khabar ghaibi.
And khabar ghaibi means that it tells you something that nobody can know except somebody who knows everything.
That information about the unseen or about the unknown.
Exactly, information about the unseen.
I give you one example.
The Old Testament said that the Jews, when they were wandering, they were like 1.2 million people wandering in the desert before entering the Holy Land.
The Quran says,
Fir'aun says,
Innaum la shirdi matun qarilun.
The Quran speaking about the group of the Jews who were slaves to him.
Fir'aun said, it's just a little group of people.
You see, so the Quran corrects like 400 years ago the mistakes of the Bible.
And now, thanks to archaeology,
we can say that there is a mistake in the Bible because the Bible says there are plenty of people.
I have to pause you.
Are you able to talk about the Quran without bringing up the Bible?
Like just assessing it in a vacuum without thinking about other religions?
Here's why I say that, because if you put something else next to it and every time you see it,
that is i'ajaz by itself because the Quran uses the Bible as i'ajaz.
No, but here's the thing.
You had said that archaeology is not even an exact science, right?
But now the Quran can get it wrong and that you still don't see an issue with that.
But then, if the Quran corrected a fact, let's assume you're correct.
The Quran corrected some fact about the number of Jews.
I'm not vetting that information.
If that is true, does that demonstrate that it's from God?
That strengthens the case, yes, that it is from God.
How does it strengthen the case?
Does getting things right strengthen the case that someone is from God?
Yes, when you add up all the different cases that strengthen that the Quran is from God,
in the end you end up with a very, very strong case that the Quran is from God.
So if I say a bunch of truths about something and then I make another claim that I'm a prophet from God,
does that prove that I'm from God just because I said a bunch of other truths?
If you said it like 2000 years ago, maybe, yeah.
No, I fail to see the connection between getting some things right and making a strong case for being from Allah.
And the phrasing of that is interesting to me, a strong case.
So are you saying that there is a chance?
So is it like math or chemistry, that kind of science where you know a fact,
or is it where you have to make a case and argue your opinion?
I think it's both.
I think it's one or the other, it can't be both.
No, no, it's not.
Human life is very complex.
It is not black and white.
That's the complexity of human life.
And that's where you failed.
For you, oh, predetermination, it's impossible.
Okay, God does not exist.
I'm not a Muslim.
I don't believe in God anymore.
That's true and false thinking.
That's dangerous.
No, it wasn't that simple as you simplified it.
But also, I think you're evading the pointer.
You're kind of contradicting yourself and saying that, you know,
archaeology, you were saying that with all due respect to Derek,
what you do, the archaeological digs,
and then forming an opinion about Christianity,
that's just an opinion.
It's not like exact science, like chemistry or math.
But that's what Islam is.
But you're saying simultaneously, it is both an exact science,
but simultaneously a matter of deduction and opinion.
Those two are contradictory.
Okay, it's just like I said, it's a case by case study.
Okay, it is not true or false.
You have to study everything.
For instance, when Derek brings the Gilgamesh epic and said,
okay, you see Gilgamesh speaks about the flood.
That means that Noah, the story of Noah, the deluge is false.
I think that's dangerous.
You cannot conclude directly from the Gilgamesh epic.
By the way, I don't make that reasoning just because an earlier mythological
antecedent to the Genesis tale somehow falsifies the biblical one.
It brings up questions.
Just like I would want to defend Aladdin here and say it wasn't,
I'm sure, and correct me if I'm wrong, Aladdin.
It wasn't just this predestination free will that,
oh, well, that therefore God doesn't exist.
I imagine this question started the seat of doubt
which caused you to start investigating further.
Like for me, it wasn't one thing.
Now it's a thousand things.
And all of it points to man-made humans writing this material.
Man with their perception and their dated ideas.
And so that is what it all boils down to me.
But seeing that the Bible author is using, having literary dependence,
there's some genetic dependence on the story of a mythological tell
from the epic of Gilgamesh or Numa Alisha, whatever it might be,
signaled to me that this isn't whole cloth historical
on what the Bible is trying to tell you about the flood.
We have other reasons to think a worldwide flood didn't happen.
We have several reasons to say that that's not the case.
The same way I would probably approach the Quran
when it starts to talk about some of these infancy gospel narratives,
other things that are legends I know predate the Quran by several centuries.
And we can discuss those things.
But that's like, I wouldn't necessarily mean therefore false.
It would make me start to wonder, what are we reading here?
What kind of document is this?
And then other questions would ensue.
Sorry, I had to jump in there.
But, you know, just to kind of set the record straight there.
Yeah, no issues.
No issues.
I have no problem with that.
But again, I do have one more caller though a lot.
And just so you know, and then I got to let them five minutes, Masud.
Five minutes.
They can't hear you yet.
I'll be letting you on, but just go ahead.
I want to, I got to get to the family.
I happen to be in Germany as well.
So it's quite late.
I'll soon go to sleep.
Just, yeah, to finish with the with a lot.
Your, your big issue is predetermination.
Isn't it?
It's, it's one of them.
Yes.
Is it the biggest?
It's hard to rank them that way.
Like I don't want to do all the other issues just injustice by ranking them that way.
But it's one of the biggest and the, the, the origin bias that you had mentioned,
not as in to say that it's just, it's evidence that people are more,
are very likely to die on the beliefs that they inherited as, as children.
And it doesn't seem like a good way to statistically break up who's good and who's bad based on geography.
Well, just to, to, to answer the, the, the last one.
Okay.
Regarding the, the origin bias.
I, I, I was, I was not kind with, with mankind to say the least.
When I said that people are lazy, but I am lazy.
Everybody is lazy, but God gives us chance, chances.
Okay.
I think every human being, this is not my opinion.
This is like a revelation or information we have from the Hadith and even from the Quran.
Every human being, every once in, I think it's two or three times a year.
There is something that happens to him.
It's like a call from God, like a warning or something that happens to him.
Three, two or three times a year.
It's a verse in the Quran.
Every human being in the earth.
Okay.
On, on earth.
So God does not leave anybody without the message.
We will never punish.
Even though that is stated in the book that we will never punish till we send the message,
but the reality is most people die non-Muslim.
That's the reality.
You don't know that biography.
You don't know how many messages they received in their life.
So is it a coincidence that most people, is it a coincidence that most people who get the message,
but are lazy or whatever other reason that they don't accept it.
Is it a coincidence that they all statistically happen to be more likely to have not been Muslim to begin with
and that being lazy as a Muslim gets you heaven.
Being lazy as a kafir gets you hell.
Yeah, that's, that's a very interesting question because there is, I think there is a selection made by God.
There's a selection.
God predetermined that a good, like a good lazy person as a Muslim, he created him in a Muslim land.
So he would go to heaven and predetermined that the lazy person created in a kafir land is going to hell.
I would remove the last part regarding the land.
It does not depend on the place when you are born.
Environment, like say environment.
Any place, any place, yeah.
I think, and then I read, I read some books about this issue.
Theologians, Islamic theologians, they try to explain those things,
but they arrive to a point when they say, if you go past that point, you may drown.
Okay, because this is God's business.
This is, this is what they say.
This is God's business.
And now you're playing with God's business, meaning that, okay.
And that's, that's the point of free will.
How is that different from saying, sorry, I have to ask, how is that different from saying, if you go past this point and asking the question,
you will realize that Islam is not true and you will scratch past that surface and see it's not a gold plate.
How is that different from saying God knows and you don't know?
Sorry.
And by the way, ask that again Aladdin, but let this be the last one.
I do want to get our next guest on five minutes.
I'm going to set my clock because I have to get off and go to the family.
My wife's making dinner and everything too.
All right, I'll restate the question.
So what you said that Muslim theologians, they struggle with that question and they say, if you go past this point, that is God's domain, you will drown.
How is that different than saying, if you scratch past this surface, you will find out it's not a gold plate and you realize Islam is not true.
Don't you see that that's exactly the same thing, depending on how you look at it?
No, because you are underneath the, it is not a coin.
You are dug under the mountain.
You are deep in the mountain.
You are deep in the sea.
So you are past the surface and so on.
You are very, very deep in the theological debates that maybe are above your level.
So that's the danger.
Most people don't go that deep because this is when you go too much into philosophy.
People understand basic truth.
Do good, don't do bad.
You don't have to go make philosophy and write books about that.
That's not even a truth, to be honest.
That's just like, that's an art.
That's not really a truth.
What was your first question?
So what I'm saying is, it's not about the depth of the coin.
I'm saying, don't you see that it's the same situation, just viewed from a different bias.
If someone goes past that point, a Muslim would say they drowned because they shouldn't go into God's domain.
But if a Christian were to do the same thing, you would say, yes, they scratched the surface and they realized it was false.
I'm saying it's the same situation depending on how you phrase it or how you frame it.
No, it's not the same situation.
Well, yeah, we might have to agree to disagree.
I would continue the conversation, but I know...
Yeah, look, if we had more time, I'd be cool and I feel bad that I'm having to only limit this to five minutes.
But I really do have to go when I get my suit on here.
But thank you, Abu.
And look, I appreciate all the callers today that have been gentlemen and respectful callers.
And yeah, I hope that you can do this again when we have Aladdin back on.
Do you do Aladdin on your channel?
Yeah, I do.
I do every week or two and I have some of them there just for talking to believers.
So if you go there in the live stream tab, you will see all those.
So yeah, I try to announce them in a community post.
So hopefully there will be one in a week from now.
Awesome.
Well, thank you so much, Abu.
Thank you, Derek.
And yeah, for you, Derek, sorry for what I said.
In the beginning, it was very interesting all the points you brought.
I hope that my two cents that I gave you about archaeology and stuff can make you like more nuanced point about when you say stuff about the Bible, Old Testament, New Testament.
It is not because, like you said, Gilgamesh or stuff predates what is said in the Bible.
That means it's false.
You have to be more nuanced than that.
This is what I think.
And archaeology, as I said, it is not 100% true.
It has to be balanced and nuanced.
That's only what I wanted to add.
Thank you.
I took no offense.
Thank you, Abu.
I appreciate it, man.
Have a good one.
Thank you.
Goodbye.
Bye.
Subscribe to Aladdin.
We're going to bring our next guest on.
And they have a camera, Aladdin.
Hallelujah.
I have to set my timer and I'll say why.
Aladdin, you ask questions that lead to long conversations, which are good.
Second is, I know Masoud.
I know him.
He talks too.
And he loves talking.
So please be respectful of my time limit here, Masoud.
I'm bringing you on.
I know Aladdin too.
You guys both.
All right.
Welcome back to MythVision.
I've set my timer for six minutes because I love you guys.
All right.
Go ahead.
I love you too, Derek.
I mean, there is a reason why I call you champ.
And I hope our relationship continues despite the whispers of the devil.
Okay.
So let me just break up by saying a lot of the things that Muslims bring to the table
to discuss theology and religion.
They are medieval.
They are opinions framed by medieval scholars.
There's a reason why the Quran says,
it's the proof from your Lord.
Okay.
So the Quran is claiming that you have to tackle it independently without the inference
to any secondary sources of a hadith or any of the scholars of the past in the Islamic
history.
Okay.
So the Quran is calling people to tackle it independently as a source of information
that can be confirmed or falsified.
All right.
Okay.
So we have to get the credit.
Pause.
Pause real quick.
Aladdin.
I know you have some say.
So please have a dialogue here.
Try not to be too long-winded.
Okay.
I'll try to be quick.
So I am.
Okay.
Just before he goes on, I would request Derek to please bring me on with Aladdin or anybody
else to make discussions like this.
I'm available, champ.
I'm available to come on your channel and talk to people.
Okay.
Thank you.
Go on, please.
Aladdin.
So yeah, I was just going to ask.
So how do you understand the Quran without reference to hadith or sunnah?
How do you know the explanation, the tafsir of everything?
Because the Quran says it is a self-explanatory book.
See, if you read chapter 11, in the beginning it says.
So Allah says, I am the one who is going to give explanations.
Maybe I caught the Arabic words wrong.
It says, Alif Lam Ra.
I did just because of brevity, because of time.
It doesn't matter what the verse is.
What the Quran says is, these are the verses from God and God himself gives explanation.
The opinions in the Islamic world about hadith come to explain the Quran is absolutely wrong.
Absolutely wrong.
No first Muslims in the first century.
Well, I want to make this short.
So what you said is a quote to say that God explains things.
But I'm talking about in reality, right?
We have a book.
We have stories that are missing huge chunks in the middle.
We don't know the context.
The story starts from the middle.
The guy lost the fish.
It doesn't really even talk about what's the fish, what's it about.
How do you know this background information without having the hadith?
Aside from the Quran saying that it's self-explanatory.
I got it.
The Quran makes anecdotal points in giving you a lesson.
The Quran briefly makes a point and that point is sufficient to give a lesson.
Whatever God intends to give a lesson.
Actually, any of the stories, even the story of the fish, there are sufficient guidance there.
You don't have to look for additional.
You don't have to go and prod the Bible to pull out the story of Moses and try to explain it.
Whatever the Quran gives the information, that is sufficient to make a point.
That is not exactly true.
The moral of the story had nothing to do with the story of Al-Khadr.
The fish had nothing to do with the moral of the story or the events that were more...
But here's my point.
If God brings up a fish with no context and you don't have the hadith to tell you what the point of the fish is,
then it doesn't serve the moral of the story.
It doesn't serve anything.
It's not even a good storytelling device if you don't know what the fish is.
Hang on.
I have never investigated the hadith about this fish.
I have studied the story.
I am a translator of the Quran in modern English right now.
I'm writing a commentary on it.
I find it as sufficient.
I don't feel the need to go and look into the hadith of what this fish is all about.
To me, the story makes the meaning.
The problem is the Quran is a book that you have to study.
It requires a detailed study like pondering, reflection.
You can't read the Quran once and you can say,
Oh, I got it.
No, you have not got it.
Why do I keep hearing that from a lot of Muslims?
Because no one here said that I read the Quran once and I claimed to understand it.
What I'm saying is, if I write a story in the middle of my book,
I mention a fish and the fish doesn't have anything to do with the moral of the story.
And as it is confused,
Certainly not.
It's not dictating the moral of the story,
but the point that it makes is the fish.
The point that the fish makes is
Musa continues with his servant.
And the servant then reminds Musa,
This is what happened with the fish.
It just took its way to the sea.
So Musa says, why didn't you tell me?
That's the point we are supposed to be going.
That's our destination because that's where we are going to meet this person.
So that's the role of the fish taking to the sea.
You don't have to investigate more on this fish in any of the hadith.
The role of the fish was just to point out that that's the destination
where they have to wait for this to meet this man.
That's all.
But that's not clear from the Quran without looking at the hadith.
Why not?
I've never looked into the hadith.
I'm giving you the story from the Quran.
I've never looked into the hadith.
What I'm saying is hadith are redundant pieces of material.
They're redundant.
And if you guys,
Okay, time is up.
I'm going to be making my last point.
If you guys spend your time on hadith,
what I'm calling is it's a waste of time.
You will go nowhere on all this predestination,
pre-ordainment.
All this stuff comes from the hadith.
It's nowhere in the Quran.
The Quran doesn't support it.
Okay.
Masood, let me offer you this because I do need to wrap things up here
and I need to get to dinner.
Apostate Aladdin has a YouTube channel.
He does live streams,
call-in shows also where you can come on and have conversation.
I have sent him emails previously,
but I've got no response.
I don't check my emails very often,
but I do have those live streams every couple of weeks.
I'll post about it on my community posts,
and then you can, 15 minutes in advance,
I put the live stream yard link up.
So you're welcome to join this one.
Yeah, and I pinned his stuff in the comment section
for everybody to subscribe so you can go
and have a conversation with Aladdin.
Aladdin likes conversations.
What about you, Derek?
What about you?
Don't you like to talk to me, Derek?
I'd rather have ex-Muslims, honestly, talk to Muslims.
Derek, there is some hard stuff that I want to talk with you.
Okay, well, maybe someday.
Maybe someday, but I'm trying to do this
and the reason why is oftentimes you hear people who will say,
well, you don't even know what Islam teaches.
You never are Muslim.
So they have this advantage in that kind of way in a conversation.
Look, I come from it, completely secular.
Like, my whole investigation of Islam from the beginning
is from a non-believing, secular, historical, critical method.
I'm looking at this saying, let me look at this and see,
did man make this? Is this man made?
My investigation leads me to see it looks very man-made.
Now, I know that you don't believe that.
I understand.
I know you think there's scientific miracles,
but that's why I'd rather someone who knows Arabic
because how many times have I sat there and had people go,
you don't know Arabic.
You don't know what you're talking about.
And then they're talking about a text that I can't get behind.
I'm not able to investigate it, and I never was a Muslim.
So I try to be fair, and I think it's important that
Muslims are able to conversate with ex-Muslims
because honestly, you're probably not considered even a Muslim to many Muslims.
Absolutely. I got the point.
I absolutely got the point.
That's the reason why I am, like, not allowed in the community.
I'm not in the Facebook of Muslim community because they throw me out.
The problem is, the problem is champ.
I call you champ for a reason.
If the Quran or the Bible or any other religious text,
if it is false, let us prove it false,
and let us call it a day, and let us give a religion.
I'm for it.
But if they have substance, if there is truth in it,
it is a risk that we collectively cannot afford.
That's what I'm saying.
That's exactly what the Christians say.
My point is, if there is truth in the scriptures,
if God is real, we cannot afford the risk of burning in Hellfire.
But if it is false, if it is man-made, let us prove it.
Let us falsify it, and let us be champs like you are
to get rid of religion from the world.
So I'm for it.
I'm trying to be unbiased.
That's not quite my goal to eradicate.
I'd love to see everybody.
What I'm saying is, this is where human beings,
humankind, need to make a decision.
We have this quality time in the world to find out the truth
and to dispel the false.
So nothing is stopping us.
Nobody can stop us from doing this.
I mean, I like your work.
To be honest, you're a champ.
We will do it as respectable as possible, as fair as possible,
and I'm for it.
I'm not here defending Islam just for the reason that I'm a Muslim
or I was brought up a Muslim.
Look, I have not been going to the mosque four years now.
I've not taken my kids to the mosque.
My little kid never went to the mosque.
There's a reason for this.
I mean, I've got a history with the Muslim community.
I don't like them to be outright.
I don't like them because they don't like me.
I've got nothing to do with them.
The reason why I'm a Muslim is because of the Qur'an.
It's because of the scriptures, the Bible, the gospel, the teachings in there.
Maybe someday.
So what I might do with you, Masood, because I don't debate.
Let me just put this very clear.
I don't want to debate you.
I can discuss.
As long as we have a discussion.
Absolutely.
And number two, if you really, really, really want to talk to me,
I'll get prepared.
My angle is going to be, are there antecedents?
Are there legends and myths in the Qur'an?
Now, I'm going to approach it this way because if the stories in this
are just stories, you could still say there's truth there.
I watch movies today that are fiction, that have plenty of truth.
But to say that it is the truth, like this is true.
Everyone else is false.
That's a whole different category that I don't think you could draw from that
book, but we can have that conversation.
And I think I would love to discuss these things.
The scholarship, the dual Qur'an, the two horned one.
Absolutely.
You know, infancy gospels, the whole nine on what I'm seeing in the Qur'an.
I'd love to have a conversation about that.
And some of the reasons that for me, I see it as man-made.
And then you can tell me and we'll have a conversation why you think it's God.
Absolutely.
I love it.
I really got this divine.
Okay.
I love it.
I love it.
Okay.
Let's do that.
I'll prepare for it.
Okay.
But we'll plan that.
Don't expect it anytime soon.
I got a lot coming on right now, but I won't let you down.
I got it.
We'll make it happen.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're a real American.
You are a real American.
All right.
He's in Australia.
That's why the sun's shining right now.
I wanted to be a real American, you know, fighting for the right of everyone.
All right.
I understand, man.
I understand.
Well, thank you for coming on, Masoud.
I'm going to get out of here.
No problem, champ.
Not a problem.
Good to talk to you, Aladdin.
And I hope to catch you up on your channel, Aladdin.
Yeah.
I hope to talk to you on my channel too.
Thank you so much, man.
Yeah.
See you.
See you.
All right.
Get your final words out, brother.
What'd you think?
Did you have a fun?
Did you enjoy it?
Yeah, I did.
Good.
Yeah.
My style is like I talk for a long time.
I listen for a long time.
So I'm sorry if this ran a bit longer than you were expecting, but I'm very grateful to
be here to have a chance to engage with your audience and to give, I guess, your audience
a taste of the conversation on the other side of the fence.
So yeah, thank you for making that happen.
I appreciate it.
Absolutely.
The cat seems to be bored, though, at this point.
He always is.
I hope everybody enjoyed it in the chat.
I had fun.
I always enjoy these because I'm an optimist.
I hope that people who are in fates can not, can maybe stop seeing people who are no longer
in their version of faith or no longer part of their faith as enemies and they hate them
and things like that because, you know, that's something that happens a lot.
It's human nature.
It's tribalism, you know, and we want to try to break down the wall.
Like you're not interested in making everyone a non-Muslim.
I think you're interested, like me, more of a harm reduction where you want to see people
personally.
I'd love to see people find purpose without having to have a particular faith.
But if they are going to have a faith, I want their faith to be a beautiful one with love
and peace and respect and treating others good.
Even if I don't ontologically draw their conclusions, I think we can make the world a better place
with these kind of conversations.
What do you think?
I agree.
Like I said, we don't always have to agree at the end of the call.
I mean, most of the time we don't, but I think just having the call is beneficial.
Having the conversation is beneficial.
So yeah, I'm glad you let us have it today.
Yeah.
Sorry I interrupted a couple of times.
I just, there was a point I got a little bit of frustration going on.
I'm like, because it happens, people get excited, you know, they're just excited and I don't
hold anything against them.
I just, I want to have that dialogue and that's where it counts.
So back to your YouTube channel.
So everybody knows they need to come check out your YouTube, subscribe.
In fact, did you know how many subscribers you had before you came on the stream?
Roughly, yeah.
Why are you trying to figure out how many?
Yeah, I'd like to know, like I'm refreshing now.
And I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, look, looking at my studio app, I think I've gotten like 40 or 50
subscribers since the beginning of the stream.
So thank you very much for that, guys.
Makes me feel good, man.
Yeah.
And so when's your next live stream?
Do you have one plans?
I haven't scheduled one yet, but let's just tentatively say next Tuesday, for example,
might be next Tuesday around the same time.
OK, so look out for a thumbnail like this, subscribe, hit the bell.
That way you're you're aware of when he is on and you can go and call in if
you're a believer, depends on the kind of live stream.
Of course, you have different you have different live streams, but you have a
patient for believers.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, you have patients that you, you know, you really try to get in there
and like show people you care, but you also have a Patreon.
Anyone who wants to support you can go get a loaf of bread or more and they can
support your work, which is helping you do this.
Are you doing this full time?
At the moment, yes, I am.
And yeah, I've transitioned from doing it part time to doing it full time.
And that's thanks to people who support me on Patreon.
So if I continue to grow at this rate, I'll be able to do this again for a
year going forward.
So hopefully we get enough, you know, supporters, so I'm able to do that.
Well, I hope you continue to grow.
I love that you're kind and respectful in the way that you approach this.
I hope you continue to do so a lot.
And then just a final plug on us.
We got the Patreon tons and tons of videos we've been doing.
I've been editing like crazy.
So consider supporting what we do.
If you like what you hear, if not, you can hit the like button.
You can share it.
You can, you know, comment down below, show us some love.
Even if you disagree with us, it helps the algorithm.
And it gives Aladdin, it gives me incentive to even want to do these
because I don't have to do these kind of call and shows.
It's stuff that I like to do.
I enjoy them.
But, you know, this is the kind of stuff I have to follow.
What makes sense to me here at MythVision?
And I'm sure you do the same Aladdin.
So I mean, I enjoy them, but I don't want to be penalized
and not get likes for just enjoying them.
So I'll say that I do them for the likes.
So, guys, please do like these things.
Right. You better like if you want us to do it.
Thank you, man.
Any final words, positive words from you?
Maybe something to encourage people or?
Yeah, I got to give, again, a thanks to all the callers who called in today.
Then none of them were really belligerent or rude in any major way.
I know at some point we might have been talking past each other,
but I never took offense to any of that.
So, yeah, I just want to make it clear to any people commenting
that these calls didn't go well.
I think these calls went fantastically.
And I thank the people for enabling them to happen, you know, for calling in.
So thank you.
And thanks, everyone, for watching, of course.
Thank you, Aladdin.
And never forget, we are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
