Ladies and gentlemen, MythVision podcast, Dr. Dennis McDonald has his Mamesis hypothesis
and that is that the Gospels are not only using the Septuagint and the development and
narrative of their Jesus stories, we call Gospels, including Acts, which would be kind
of the narrative of the early church.
It's early church mythos, if you will, one of the early ones that actually describes
it.
And he gets a lot of flak, lots of criticism, typically he gets it from Christian apologists
at least of late.
What I find about the online community when it comes to Christian apologists and what
we do here at MythVision is they go to anyone who has a disagreement with the scholars we
have on, latching on to them as a way of saying, poo poo to this academic.
And I want to give you a visual before we begin on showing you what I'm talking about.
So Neil, can you pop that up for me?
I don't know how you did it.
Okay, let's make that full screen for a second.
So real quick to give you into the drama for a moment and why we have Dennis here is to
actually respond to his academic colleagues, the criticisms that he has received in his
field pertaining to his work about Mamesis criticism.
But this is our launching point to give you an idea about the online world.
In fact, this is new to Dennis.
Dennis has no clue what I'm actually showing here today.
Dennis, there is a online biologist, which is not even in New Testament studies named
Jonathan McClatchy.
I'm sure he's an avid learner and reader and an interest of New Testament stuff.
I hear his dad might be a preacher or something.
And that he says that someone who holds a PhD from Harvard, Dennis McDonald, argues
that Mark and Acts are intentionally mimicking the Homeric epics, does not render such a
view credible.
It simply shows that people with advanced degrees from Harvard can hold two really silly positions.
Michael Jones, who's a well-known apologist online and buddies with rights, his ideas
are rejected by the overwhelming majority of the scholarly community.
And by the way, I think that same potion there could be drank on his own channel.
Several of the positions Michael Jones holds to is far from the consensus on Hebrew Bible
and probably in New Testament studies as well.
But I'm aware of, from talking to the Hebrew Bible scholars that I have on, that several
of the positions he holds are far from consensus.
But it's interesting, when a critic coming close to the resurrection or New Testament
comes on, you find that the majority counts.
However, we're going to get into this too.
One more I thought was interesting.
Oh, there's this guy named Derek Lambert who commented saying, silly, McClatchy, seen
triggered of late, several academics trained in New Testament studies and classics agree
with Dennis that these authors are working off of Homeric epics and a need.
Consensus be damned, especially when they haven't even read his work.
Your last rant on Twitter about how grieve you were that your scholars don't get much
attention.
It sounds like persecution complex.
I think I'll make another video today promoting more of McDonald's work for more to look into.
Mike Winger, a very well-known Christian apologist, pastor guy.
I actually had someone comment about this just recently in a video.
They made the copying Homer claim.
It was one of those days when I just didn't have time to respond and felt sad that I was
leaving them in such a fate, a state.
And my buddy, Trey Brickley, he actually says, look, I love watching these guys go back and
forth.
But really sad.
He's not happy with the way that the Christians are responding to the situation.
Anywho, there's a little teased drama for everybody.
He also went on Twitter, I'm going to show you the same thing, exactly the same text,
copy pasted it.
But I also decided to chip in and give my two cents.
I bet you my life savings, he has never read the material.
And I honestly think that.
Without a doubt.
And the reason why I think that is because they know that the Old Testament is being,
there's a mimesis happening from the Old Testament to the New Testament.
They know that that process is taking place in the text.
So why would it be so crazy to think that the process of mimesis can happen in another
text?
Anyway, remember, remember this, like we forget this, there was no Bible yet.
So these New Testament texts are not like, we're the New Testament, so we're going to
stick to Judaism.
We're going to, no, no, no, this was a text by itself, and it had a free range to copy
from anywhere it wanted to copy from all materials, free game.
No, it's even better than that.
And I'm giving Dennis the path as we lead into this, I'm, Dennis is going to take the
gloves off and go swing in here.
And I'm glad.
It's finally time.
I think Dennis really stands up for his work.
He spent his entire career mostly showing this Eureka of his life.
I mean, you want to talk about a born again experience, discovering this will blow you
away.
So Dennis, what happens is these apologist, just like a recent response from my buddy
Eric Manning, who I would consider in that very conservative needs this to be true camp.
And he responded by playing one of the shorts that I've played.
I'm, you know, I like different voices from Bart Ehrman, who denies the whole Greek connection.
And so what they do is they find an academic that doesn't agree with you and they latch
onto it.
So they found a list about who criticized your work in the past and they go, look, they
don't accept it.
They haven't even read it, but they don't accept it.
This is so outlandish to them.
What Neil just said, couple that with the fact that this is Greek literature.
This isn't Aramaic literature.
This isn't Hebrew literature.
This is within the vein of Greek literature.
That alone should make anyone with eyeballs consider this and go, hmm, okay.
So it's Greek literature.
What they need, in my opinion, is training wills or they need someone to go, it is written
therefore because it says it is written, their jobs easy.
And they haven't really investigated that.
That gets into some of these criteria and some of these, um, some of these particular
issues that we're going to display in us.
So I want to put you on the front row here, Neil.
How do you, there you go.
I got you.
Take us into it.
Are you talking to me?
Yes, sir.
Okay.
Um, well, I knew that there would be pushback from conservative religious types and I'm
not interested in having them ditch their religion.
I'm interested in making their religion smarter and giving them more tools to appreciate these
marvelous texts.
I would, I would insist that I love the gospels more than anybody I know.
And they certainly love them better than people who are trying to defend orthodoxy,
who really haven't read them critically and they haven't read them in Greek and they haven't
compared them with the cultural materials around them.
I was not entirely prepared for the pushback that I got from my own academy and it has
been painful.
Now I do know that there are scholars who are warming up to the idea and I wouldn't
be, I would be the first person to point out weaknesses in some of my examples and I'm
a pioneer, but I'm not the major settler.
And so I'm waiting for the next generation of scholars to use mimesis criticism as another
tool for uncovering the sophistication of these texts and how they mean.
If I could give an image, I think that the tide is rising on mimesis criticism so that
there is a kind of incremental appreciation for it.
And I'm surprised by some and encouraged by some scholars that I esteem very much who
are warming to the idea and are in fact incorporating some of those insights into their own work.
What I'm hoping for though is not a rise in the tide, but a tsunami.
I'm waiting for the waves of critics all of a sudden to say McDonald is on to something,
he's pointing in the right direction, there may be problems in some of his methodologies
or so on, but to say that what I've done in my whole career is silly by someone who hasn't
written my texts, my work, I just find that reprehensible.
And by the way, I think it's too bad that McClatchy is a fellow Scott.
You know, the McDonald's and the McClatchy's I guess are going to have a feud.
So I've listed some of these objections in a display that I sent to you, Derek.
Would you like me to show those?
I think that would be helpful because I articulate there.
While he's pulling that up, I just wanted to say something real quick.
If you're going to be that critical of another scholar like yourself, at least show you,
show the people why it's silly, at least say, Hey, the thing he said about the demoniac
or the thing he said about the Euryclia thing or the thing he said about you to kiss falling,
if he then it would show you reddit, but he just went off and just said it's stupid without
saying anything about it, showing he hasn't read it.
That to me is embarrassing.
It makes the same thing happen.
Go ahead.
I was going to say it's very embarrassing because these are the same people who want
to be taken seriously on their undesigned coincidences.
And so while they're screaming on the internet world saying, please take our undesigned coincidences
seriously.
And then when people do take them seriously and aren't convinced or have other alternative
explanations they think are better in explaining the data, then it's like, OK, well, at least
we're engaging.
For me, I think what really goes right through the undesigned coincidence thing is the fact
that this literature is aware of itself.
These authors know the other works, like for example, the undesigned coincidence they bring
up in Acts, they pretend that the book of Acts does not know Pauline letters, does not
know the letters.
So how does it know this information?
It must be historical eyewitnesses or this author is really a true companion of Paul
and didn't have his letters necessarily in order to get this information.
So this is the kind of approach they want to take.
They want to be taken seriously, but they want to silly your work to the side.
Yeah.
Now, I don't do much with the apologists, simply because I know I'm not going to convince
them and I don't have an audience for their audience.
But I'm surprised that scholars in my field dismiss my work on as a priori without looking
at the text either.
So over and over again, I wanted people to say, well, how do you explain these parallels
unless it's mimetic?
Now by the way, mimesis for me does not mean that people need to have a copy of Homer or
whatever in front of them.
In fact, it's more likely that Quintilian was right in having his students read a story
over and over and over again in order to digest it and then to pull it back as a cow does
cut and chew it again and make it their own or like a bee that goes from flower to flower
collecting pollen that you can use to make your own honey so that you have eclectic mimesis
that is more than one text informing a story.
So I think mimesis means literary imitation, but it doesn't need to have visual immediate
access to the text in order to be imitated.
And in fact, it certainly is possible and my guess is that it's likely in several cases
where the author is not looking at a text or thinking of a text at all, but by of the
Homeric story that has such cache in the culture that he can expect his readers to know about
it. This would be the case, for example, with Lucy in his satires, in my view.
So I think the I'm not interested in defending my work unless my defending my work makes
the understanding of the texts better. I want the text to win. That's much more important
than my winning. And you can't get the text to win if you don't read it critically.
And so that's one of the things I was hoping that we could do in our time today is actually to
take a look at a few stories in their comparisons and to throw down the gauntlet and say,
do you have an alternative explanation for these parallels? If you don't, then I have to say that
you're denying of this is willful ignorance. Well said. Well said. Okay. Someone editors out there
will clip that, right? Dennis, you sent me this yesterday. You formulated this for our episode
today so viewers can kind of actually see a few things on display, but we're going to get into
some of the criticism, but some of the problems that you've noticed. Did you want to introduce or
did you want me to read some of this? Well, I'll coach you in what to read, but I'll start. Okay.
It was very helpful for me to reread Thomas Kuhn's famous book, The Structure of Scientific
Revolutions. And Kuhn notes, for example, that Darwin's evolutionary theory met near
early resistance because research had uncovered anomalies, facts inconvenient for biologists
in his day. And his work and that of other scientists met with five different types of
opposition. And I've suffered from opposition like this by everybody. So Neil, are you able
to see this text too? Yes. Okay. I think the three of us can kind of go through it. Sure.
I view what I'm finding in parallels in classical Greek poetry to be inconvenient truths to my
guild. There are anomalies that step outside of traditional biblical criticism. So let's do it
this way. I'll take the first one, denial. And then Neil, you can take the next one, suppression.
And Derek, you can take accommodation and we'll just work through this this way. And then we'll
work through the list that's below it the same way. So first, denial. Natural scientists may
simply ignore inconvenient anomalies by dismissing them ad fontes and pursue their projects undeterred.
Suppression is denial's fraternal twin. If discoveries inconvenient to the reigning matrix
do not exist, it is no crime to bury them. Accommodation. Scientists may concede the occasional
anomaly, but instead of abandoning the regnant paradigm, they treat it merely as an unwelcome
counter instance. Kuhn, they will devise numerous articulations and ad hoc modifications of their
theory in order to eliminate any apparent conflict. Methodological assaults, the most productive
engagements with unanticipated anomalies question the reliability of the tools and procedures that
claim to have unearthed them. Marginalization. When defenders of the disciplinary matrix cannot
dismiss anomalies as isolated exceptions or flawed science, they might trivialize their
significance. So my work has suffered from all of these instances. Now, here's what I suggest
coming up. I didn't know that Neil was going to be with us. So if you could put that back up on the
screen, that'd be great. So Derrick, you and Neil can alternate where it says Derrick.
And the way this is set up is you will articulate the position of many in the my guild,
and then I'll give a response to it. Okay. Your work devalues the influence of Jewish
scriptures. I hear this a lot. Not at all. If you take a look at the synopses of epic tragedy in
the Gospels, I include, at least in footnotes, every citation of Jewish scriptures that I'm aware
of. And in some of the introductions, I also talk about how mimesis takes place also with
biblical texts. Now, I want to say, though, we know that in literary fragments from Egypt,
from 200 BCE to 200 AD, we have five fragments of the Septuagint. We have over 600 from Homer.
Now, you tell me what the literary world is of the early Christians. Say that again,
because I have found repetition in constantly reminding people. You said, just to make this
correct, 600 Homer's works. Fragments of Homer's works, 600. Have been discovered, and you said
five LXX? Five. So the preponderance of Greek literature, if you're right in Greek,
that was being used would have been Homer. And also, the Septuagint, as far as we know,
was never used for teaching literacy, either for children or for rhetoricians.
Homer was what you began with when you were a kid. And the first line you wrote was Homer
was not a man but a God. Now, tell me if that Homer isn't everywhere in the Greco-Roman world.
And Neil, you've got a clip from Tony Burke that might work at this point, actually.
Play it. Play it, Neil. Oh, yeah. Perfect. Let's do it.
Like, there's so many scholars who… This is my recent video from yesterday,
from Professor Tony Burke from Toronto University. And sorry, Derek, say what you think.
No, I just wanted to say that people, like, there are academics, so many that I did not know about,
who may not follow you all the way to the end of the Yellowbrick Road, Dennis, but follow the
Yellowbrick Road. And they all say, hey, there's a wizard behind that curtain. We're not sure we
agree with what the wizard looks like. We're not sure exactly what his voice is. But it's there.
We agree with Dennis. It's there. And here is expert. This guy is genius. I mean, he has translated
several, like, what is, pseudopigrapha writings. We've got three volumes of, like, dozens of texts.
So, yeah. Christian apocryphal, that's right. Yeah, he's awesome. There's countless amounts of
texts. And there's more coming too. But, yeah. So, yeah, let's play this clip.
Of these apocryphal texts having connections. It's got an echo, Neil.
Something drawing from Greco-Roman, instead of just… You've got to mute your mic.
Okay. So, keep playing, but mute your mic. Let's see if that helps.
I'll know about it. For sure. Like, these are writers writing Greek. So, they're educated in
Greek. They know they're some of, at least some of their Greek classics, right? We have evidence of
on papyrus and potchards and stuff like that of school exercises where people would be copying
out pieces of Homer. So, people were educated on this. So, we should expect to see references here
and there or allusions to Greek classics. And, yeah, Dennis McDonald is a classic for doing this.
The, I think, where he got his start with this was with the Acts of Andrew.
Yeah. And, for the Acts of Andrew, he's going to get one of these individual apocryphal acts.
And there's a, there's another text, somewhat related to what you call the Acts of Andrew Matthias,
in which Andrew rescues Matthias from the hands of these cannibals in a place called
Myrmidon, or Myrmidoni, I should say. And Dennis thinks the Acts of Andrew Matthias was the lost
beginning to the Acts of Andrew. So, he reads them all together as one long text. And he's thinking,
why, where does this idea of the Myrmidonians come from? And it comes from Homer, this land of
cannibals. And so, he sees the Acts of Andrew with, the Acts of Andrew Matthias, all together with it,
as kind of a Christianization of Homer. And he has this long list of parallels
between not only in the Odyssey and the Iliad, but some of the Greek classics as well.
And I think that there's really something to that, with that particular text. I don't necessarily
agree that the two texts were originally joined. But I do think it's, it's quite reasonable to think
that there could be parallels with Greek classics in there, to make Andrew a Christian Odysseus,
though without all the themes that the Christians may not be as attractive to.
You're muted and it gets better. You're not... I tend, though, to think that Dennis sees,
Dennis makes too much out of small things. Like, you'll see a word here and say, oh, this is
evoking this. And then it makes a lot out of isolated words, which I think goes too far often.
But then the basic notion that writers of both Canonical and non-Canonical texts, who
write in Greek, or write primarily to Greek audiences, would know their Homer, would know
their, their, and some other classical texts. Another example you can bring in is the Apocalypse of
Peter. Broccoli of Peter is a, Jesus was come back from the dead and he takes Peter on a tour of
the underworld. And this is one of many tour of hell apocalypses, as we call them, tour of hell
apocalypses. Paul is an apocalypal, which is very similar, apocalypses of Mary, very similar.
These tours of the underworld. And the underworld, the topography of the underworld, is essentially
the way the Greeks looked at it. You know, you get this fire, you sometimes get a chair on the guy who
takes you boat across one of the rivers on his boat. We get the terminology Hades, Charis,
all these things. This is really drawn from Greek mythology, not, not, not, not Jewish
depictions of the underworld. So we don't really have any developed Jewish depictions of the underworld,
like we do in Greek literature. So certainly that's an adaptation of this idea for a Christian audience.
So yeah, so I, I, I like this very much. I like some of what he does. But I tend to see that
sometimes he's, he's, like I said, making too much sometimes out of isolated words, rather than
convincing parallels. Yeah, that's a good point. I think he comments about also agreeing with you
on seeing the death of Hector and Jesus, and there's some, but he might have mentioned that before
this. Yeah, yeah. Either way, that was worth bringing up just to show, while these great
scholars at least pat you on the back and see you on the right path, may not follow down to the very
jot and tittle of comparison in your work, but they love your work and they see you're on to something.
And yeah, let me say one thing. It's also a fair criticism. He knows it. He read it. He looked at
it. He has his own opinion on it. He's not just dismissing it. So you got to, you got to respect
that all right away, you know? Yep. Thank you, Tony. I don't know if you're ever going to see
this, but I actually agree with you about the little pieces. I hope that I correct myself
by not thinking that the little sides, you know, the same word for speaking or how many people were
in a crowd or whatever, satisfy Mimesis criticism. But one of my criteria is density. The issue is
how many of those little things appear in the same way, in the same order. And so even
things that are tiny, cumulatively, can contribute to the density. But of course, there's so much
subjectivity in literary criticism in comparing these texts. And I'm the first person to acknowledge
it. But I would say the subjectivity is the fun of it. That is the exploration, the use of the
imagination, the appreciation that other people are creating eclectic pieces of literature to make
sense of this nasty world. So thank you for the clip. But I think we should go back to our
objections, Derek, if you could put that list back up. Yep. So you already addressed the idea that
this devalues the influence of Jewish scripture. Right. So let's have Neil read the next one,
the Homeric epics. The Homeric epics are not a generic or linguistic match for the Gospels.
But neither are the satires of Lucian or the majority of ancient imitations. Ancient mimesis was
less interested in genre than it was in genetic connections of one text to another. So that you
can have the satires of Lucian are written in prose, but they certainly are mimetic of the
Homeric epics. It's quite clear. And so and by the way, all Jewish imitations of Homer in their
literature, or or Euripides, which who was just as popular among Jews, none of them is written
in generic or archaic Greek. They're all written in prose. And what holds them together is
characterization and motifs and plot elements. It is not linguistics, and it is not the
derriere genre. Thank you. The parallels between Mark and epics are inconsistent. Jesus resembles
Telemachus, Odysseus, Hector, Aeolus, Cersei. The same thing's true all over the Aeneid.
Sometimes Aeneas resembles Odysseus. Sometimes it's Achilles. Sometimes it could even be Heracles.
So that kind of criticism is just feeble. They're reaching for, and by the way, this issue of eclecticism
is extremely important. Many imitations are hybrids. They're using various literary tropes
and models in order to create something new and beautiful. So they're not slaves to being consistent
that their characters are imitating only one character from Greek poetry.
And let me help add icing to the cake there. And that is, the same can be said if you are
not looking at the Greek. Look at what they do with Jesus just from scriptures. He's Elijah.
He's Moses. He's multiple biblical characters. But no, he can only imitate one character. No,
he's imitating several biblical characters. Absolutely. Better than all of them.
Yeah, absolutely. That's a good point. Your methodology is unfalsifiable because you treat
differences as parallels. This is such a stupid objection. And I'm going to say that Margaret
Mitchell is the one who has advanced this and then other people have picked up on it.
Mimesis is not mimeographed imitation. It's agonistic. That is, it is trying to show that
my hero is better than your hero. So when I say that the death of Hector is similar to the death
of Jesus. And then one says, well, yeah, but one stays in the tomb and the other gets raised from
the dead. My end, my answer is, duh, of course, that's why they're imitating it in order to show
that Jesus is superior to the likes of Hector, who stays in his tomb. I mean, it goes on and on.
So you could say that with Polyphemus, Jesus heals the garrison demoniac, whereas Odysseus blinds him.
Well, that's a synchrosis, or the Greeks would call it a zealosis. It's a rivalry. So yes,
sometimes differences are parallels. The example I use is that a feminist friend of our family gave
my young daughter a book called Sleeping Ugly. That's obviously a riff on sleeping beauty.
But you can't say that ugly and beauty are not in some ways parallels, but they're agonistic
parallels. And what you find in the gospels is not plagiarism, but it's critical engagement with
mythology. It's to say that Jesus isn't just like Odysseus, Jesus is better. He's more like Eolus,
who can stop, who can calm the winds when Odysseus can't. I mean, it goes on and on. So this idea
that parallels only are sympathetic is really nonsense when you think about how literature works.
More icing on the cake, Dennis. If we took that approach, then the consensus of Hebrew critical
scholars would not say that Genesis is riffing off the Babylonian narratives because it is actually
doing the opposite. The ziggurat is bad rather than the pinnacle of society. It is the worst part of
society. Oh, that's a beautiful example. That's a good idea. Yes, we all know they're using that
in competing against their Babylonian rulers and their mythology is better. They're trying to say,
no, no, no, no, no, no. Being the pastoral, being a shepherd, being a person who's out here,
not civilization is better. That's wicked. This is righteous. And the other, the Babylonian,
saying the most pinnacle part of righteousness is the peak of civilization. So it's the direct
opposite. That's brilliant. That's a brilliant analogy. And I think you can find analogies all
over the place. The reason that you rewrite stories because you don't like them as much as that you
do like them. Yep. Yeah, I mean, with Marduk and Ninerta, they took the story of Ninerta
and said that God was great and all, but this God, Marduk, oh, he did everything
but more. He did it better. So let's take a look at the Aeneid. The Aeneid is rewriting Homer
out of admiration, but his hero is superior to the likes of Greek heroes. It's just a stupid
objection. Yeah, well, that's one of my things I think is worth mentioning when we get there is
about the, it is written controversy. Well, we know it's written. Does the Aeneid ever,
just a quick response, I guess, from you, does the Aeneid ever tip its hat and say,
oh, thanks, Homer. It is written over here in the Odyssey or the Iliad. Does it ever give mention
of the material? No, it doesn't, but it has the advantage of using proper nouns that appear in
Homer. So instead of it is written, then you say, Aeneid is put into the island of the Cyclopes.
That's a flag to what it is written, I suppose. Okay, cool. You're next, I think, Neil. Okay.
Is that the next one? Your methodology does not conform to the literary conventions of ancient
rhetoric. That is bullshit. According to Tim Whitmarsh, George Kennedy, Thomas Rosenmeier,
other authorities on ancient rhetoric, this is precisely how they learned to write. You have
the Quintillions Institutes of Rhetoric, and he teaches students that when they start to learn
how to write, they start with Homer and Virgil. If they want to write a history, then they go to
Herodotus or Livy. If they want to know rhetoric, then they can use Demosthenes or Cicero. So
they have models that they use to compose. So mimesis in the New Testament is precisely what
people learn to write in school. That's how they learn to write. And the primary, according to
Quintillion, you start by imitating Homer. Thank you. No one in history of reception
have seen these imitations, Dennis. That is blind. What about Justin Marder or Clement of
Alexander and the protracticus, the Homeric centoes beginning in the fourth century, extending at
least until the ninth, retail gospel stories by using from Homer the very lines that inspired it
in the first place. I can give several examples. And in my synopses, I give my own translation of
several hundred lines of the centoes. A medieval gospel of Nicodemus sees in the gospel accounts
of the death of Jesus, the death of Hector, and he uses independently, he uses the Iliad
to fill in the gaps in the biblical narrative. So of course, people saw it. Now, of course,
most readers did not. And these readers I'm talking about are all educated Greeks.
When the Christian movement moves into a Roman environment, and Greek is no longer what they're
taught, they can't see the similarities because they don't know the antecedents. And by the way,
that's true of most modern biblical scholars. They don't see the parallels because they don't
know Homer either. And reading Homeric Greek is hard. It took me a decade to learn how to read
Homeric Greek comfortably. Wow. Well, Dennis, we went through some of these kind of criticisms.
There's a few academics in particular that have been brought up in the recent post that
Jonathan McClatchy was trying to jab at you and say, your work is silly. He didn't even go so far
as to list academics who disagree. But in the comment section, once I commented, people were
like, actually, because I was like, there hasn't been much engagement with your work like there
should be. And I've known four or five people in history who've tried to kind of be critical of your
work. One of them is Litwa. We've had Litwa on the channel. Litwa thinks that it's just in the
oxygen, that it's just kind of in the air. And you've done an episode with me and Litwa on this.
And in fact, you were amenning to what Litwa was saying in several places. But your whole critique
is sorry, there's a lot more going through the medium of literature than what he's granting.
He's assuming it's on the street corner. It's at the place. It's kind of just in the air.
That's where this stuff's coming from. Whereas you're saying, why wouldn't we factor in
the actual literary component to this? Because in order to learn Greek, to become someone who
publishes books in Greek, like we have the Gospels, you had to saturate yourself with the Homeric
epics and would have known these narratives, which would have helped you formulate your
stories if you were going to write a good story in Greek. No, that's right. There was another
place where I thought we could benefit from... Did we do display number one already? Yes, we did
one. One was about the denial, suppression, accommodation, methodological assaults,
and marginalization. We did display two, at least going through those examples.
Display three is in response to this chain of logic. I would give one of my own, which
rearticulates the seven criteria at the core of memesis criticism.
Let's scroll back a little bit. Let's take a look at display two.
Okay.
Display one, display two. Okay. There you go. Here's what I think the dialectic is of my
opponents in trying to protect the matrix of traditional biblical scholarship.
I'm going to ask Neil to read those, to join us, I guess, in reading those dots. I'll do the first
one and then Derek, I'll have you and then Neil, and we'll see how this works. In some,
my critics would say the literary parallels between Greek poetry and the Gospels do not exist.
That is denial. Neil? Since they do not exist, one may ignore and silence those who say they do
suppression. If they do exist, they are not mimetically intertextual, but dynamically
intercultural accommodation, Litwa. Exactly. Neil, are you the next one?
Sure. Anyway, I thought Dennis would. Yeah. Even if they were intertextually mimetic,
no criteria can demonstrate it. That's methodological assaults.
Even if one were to prove that some are mimetic, they are insignificant blips on the radar.
That's called marginalization. The matrix survives largely unscathed.
Okay. Now, so that's how it goes. There are no parallels. Well, maybe there are, but we can't
prove them. Okay, if they are, we can accommodate them in traditional scholarship,
but we don't like the methodology that McDonald uses to deal with it. Even if he's right about a few,
it's just a blip on the radar. So let's go on and ignore it all. But here's my response to it. And
I think this is the core of what I want to say today. And if you want to interrupt me at the end
of every bullet item, I'd welcome that. The first one is no models for literary culture were more
popular in the early Roman Empire than the Homeric epics. As Quintilian put it to his students,
quote, the proper place for us to begin is with Homer. Like his own ocean, which he says is the
source of every spring, river and spring, Homer provides the model and the origin of every department
of eloquence. And I would include the gospels there. At stake here, then, is the satisfaction of
criterion one of memesis criticism, accessibility. No literature was more influential in education
and in Greek society than the Homeric epics. And to say that the gospels are not living in that world
is in my view, ignorance. And also both during the, you know, the Nero era, where you have
writers like Marshall, or Marshall, that's later, Domitian. But then you have, during Nero's time,
you have like, Lucan, you have right, those type of writers, they're writing up, they're taking
Homer and writing their own stuff based on the Homeric stuff that it's already going on. You
don't need the gospels to prove it. We already see it in other texts. And you start doing it in the
language. You have it in Josephus. Right. Okay. Derek, how about you reading the next one?
Memesis stood at the center. Memesis stood at the center of literary education and production.
The dominant notion in the literary aesthetic among Greek intellectuals in the early Roman
empire was memesis. What is it? Philodemus, who would claim that the writing of prose is not
reliant on the Homeric poems. At stake here is the satisfaction of criterion two of memesis criticism,
analogy. So if I could paraphrase Philodemus, it's most New Testament scholars who would
claim that the writing of prose is not reliant on Homeric poems. This goes back to the issue of
whether the Homeric epics or the Greek poetry is aligned as an inappropriate generic
or linguistic analogy to the gospels. That's not how it works with memesis. Memesis crosses over
genre. So here prose is dependent on Homeric poetry and Quintilian and Philodemus know it.
Thank you. Okay. Neil, how about the gospels and X? The gospels and X are populated by analogues
to Homeric characters and episodes that are so profuse, sequential, and unusual that they
must not be ignored. At stake here is the satisfaction of criteria three through five
of memesis criticism, density, order, and distinctive traits. Now at some point we may want
to talk about the Eurycleia episode in The Washing of Jesus' Feet. That's Neil's favorite.
Or the Garrison Demoniac, which Derek tends to like. And for me, it's the death of Jesus as
the death of Hector and so on. But I think, gentlemen, you would both agree with me that in
those cases, the parallels are dense, sequential, and distinctive. And the sequential is like the
sequential part. The in-the-air argument doesn't work for that. Things that are in the air,
they don't line up sequentially. That's impossible. The odds of that happening are
one in a million. It's not in the air. So I accidentally counted the same amount of numbers
that Derek counted over there. That doesn't work that way. It's the sequence thing, you know what
I mean? Well, that's brilliant comment. But also, we know how many copies they're aware of
the Homeric epics that people were schooled on them. Litva provides parallels that are in the air.
In some cases, we only have one manuscript of them, and often from a different geographical
or temporal context. So which of those two are you going to favor as the model for or the antecedent
in the inspiration for a text? By the way, I love the word inspiration. It's just it's not inspired
by the Holy Spirit or by God. It's inspired by other genius literature. So I believe that in
my own work, I have a sense of transcendence and inspiration. Inspiration is a powerful word,
but where does it come from? And I think it comes from the creative spirit of creativity
and imagination. Derek, how about the next one, the imitation? The imitations of classical Greek
literature also are interpretable criterion six. Memesis enabled constructing one's own
self representation through and against the canonical past. The literature of Rome and
Greece engages dynamically with inherited images, tropes and identities, actively constructing
a new way of looking at the world. By imitating classical Greek poetry, the synoptic evangelists
constructed their own new ways of looking at the world. And they weren't trying to hoodwink their
readers. They were in trying to inspire their readers with a different form of the foundation
mythology that would allow for a certain kind of cohesiveness in their social in group.
So this is not simply plagiarism. This is
social foundationalism. Does that make any sense? Yeah.
Yeah, it makes sense. I think what happens all too often, Dennis, in the online
polemics is the skeptic who doesn't believe wants to say that's plagiarism. Now, at this time,
I guess if you really did like copy directly everything and didn't combat it or find an
eloquent way of reversing it or whatnot, then maybe they would have charged you.
They would have. They would have. Yeah. But because there is some clever,
ingenious way of turning it and using it in your own stew, it's like an ingredient,
then that charge, we need to stop throwing the charge out there like that. But I know why it's
being thrown out there because there's zero recognition, if anything, absolute denial on
anything going on. So sometimes you overreach to try and get others to see it and go, they're
copying, they're borrowing, they're this and they are in a way. But the charge of trying to assume
they just stole it or something like that. It's better to be more sophisticated and educated in
that kind of response. But it's hard when you're dealing with knuckleheads who ignore and deny
that anything's happening. The social situation that you were mentioning, the foundation,
we're talking about the century that followed Virgil, that followed Ovid. And the thing of the
time period was repurposing ancient pop, especially Ovid with the metamorphosis,
where he's looking at the myths from Cyprus about Aphrodite and Adonis,
and he's looking at the Phrygian myths, he's looking at all these myths over here,
he's putting it all in one place, and then obviously we already talked about the Aeneid,
taking all the Homeric stuff and putting it in the Latin. This is the thing that's happening in
that time. That's right, and it happens in our time too. Think of the way that movies spin off of,
let's say, James Bond in order to have a spoof of the James Bond movie or the James Bond movie
spoofing on themselves. That's exactly what it is. It's art, it's not plagiarism.
Thank you. Neil, I guess it's your turn to read some of the imitations.
Some of the imitations of Homer identified in S-E-T-G were synopsis of epic tragedy in the
Gospels. Thank you. We're recognized by later Christian authors, criteria on seven
ancient recognitions. Yeah, and that's what I meant by the Homeric Gentonese and the
Clement of Alexandria and so on. And the final one, Derek.
By resisting Mimesis criticism as one of many methodologies needed to interpret the synoptics,
the disciplinary matrix we call New Testament scholarship is turning a blind eye to one of
the most important aspects of their composition. That's, I think, enough. I think we can invite
people to chat about this, or you can add some examples to it. I also have a final paragraph
that I could read to you that is my laying down the gauntlet to my critics in the academy.
We could save that, or I could read it now, or I really have said what I wanted to say.
Okay. And so it's time, I think, either to wrap it up or to take some questions.
Well, I know that you have, this is the specific example of the death of Hector and the death of
Jesus, correct? Yeah. So you brought up that example. You know, the Utica's one's great,
too. If you had that. Well, yes. By the way, I might as well make a plug here. I've mentioned
this before. If you haven't taken the course, the 18 lecture course with Dennis, on showing
Mimesis criticism and the examples, we go into the Utica's, we go into Hector's death, we go into
the Garrisim de Maniac, Cersei, and of course, the Polyphemus Cyclops, we go into John the Baptist
and the beheading of Agnominon. We go into, I mean, there are so many examples that when you
walk away, some of that spaghetti's bound to stick on the wall. There's just no way you're not going
to get something from this and go, I mean, is he making up all of it? Good luck trying to show
Dennis is just making up all of this. And that's my little plug. And so the book that I pinned at
the top, if you haven't got the book, you really should get it because even the course just scratches
the surface. Like, sure, we go and try and find what we think are the strongest, but there are
several we had to skip. Me and Dennis were like, we don't have as much time as we thought we were
going to have. And this is already becoming very long in terms of the course. But you go through
the entire Gospels, you have them, you know, paralleled next to each other, you even have
hypothetical Q in here. You go into several, several things here, Dennis, that I can't
wait to actually do videos on even the acts. Recently, I've been diving into acts. I just
did a video launched on Patreon yesterday doing a Purbo's book on the mystery of acts,
unraveling its story. And in your books, Synopsis of Epic, you go in, was it volume two?
Yes, right. Yeah, volume two on the acts. And I want to go through those. There's like 20
examples, you said, from acts going back into the Greek literature, the Euripides,
you know, Aeneid even, the Odyssey, Iliad, etc. So endless stuff to go over here.
Is there anything else? Because what I mean, Neil, you may want to get into some examples.
I was thinking we could do the super chats at the end when we're done going through a few examples.
It's up to you, Derek. Well, I want Dennis to make that decision.
I think the advantage of looking at the depth of Hector is that we have the visual that we can
look at. Okay. And I don't think it would take long. And let's see, that begins with,
yeah, I guess it's display four. And I don't know how we want to do this. Maybe...
Well, Neil can read the first Mark passages there. So like, let him and you go all the way down?
Sure. All right. So, and then, and Derek, you then will pick you up at the break. Got it.
All right. So you could scroll up. There we go. Heck, this is Iliad 22. Again, this is
not just the most popular book that we have in Greek-speaking Roman Empire,
but it's also one of the very best known stories of it. Sure. And before we do this,
I just want people to keep in mind the sequence of events. Like pay, like keep tabs on the sequence
of how these things are playing out. That's all. Okay. That's great. Hector's troops fled into the
city for safety, leaving him to face his fate alone. Jesus's disciples fled for safety,
leaving him to face his fate alone. Zeus passed judgment. Hector must die.
Pilate passed judgment. Jesus must die. By the way, Pilate is a seat in for the state of Rome,
which is basically the Kyrios, the Lord, the ruler. So there you go.
In book six, Hector had refused wine, suffered him, offered him to relieve his pain.
Jesus refused wine, offered him to relieve his pain.
Achilles and Hector traded taunts.
Various hostile groups taunted Jesus. Hector called to deophobus for help, but he never came.
The bystanders thought Jesus was calling to Elijah for help, but he never came.
Hector then knew that he would be killed for his gods had abandoned him.
Jesus then knew that he would be killed and lamented that his God had abandoned him.
Now, let's read that one again. Hector then knew that he would be killed for his gods, Apollo and
Zeus had abandoned him. Jesus then knew that he would be killed and lamented that his God had
abandoned him. Now, in order to make that claim, which is so important to Mark and not to the other
Gospels, he has an example of mimetic hybridity. It's actually a quotation of Psalm 22,
but it has a narrative analogy in the Iliad. It's a brilliant example of mimetic hybridity.
And by the way, that Sabah Cthoni, that name, that word has that Cthoni in there.
So, I don't know. Let's turn to that. We'll talk about that later, but go ahead.
Okay. Hector's soul went to Hades with a shout.
Jesus then knew that he would be killed and I'm sorry, I remember that again. Jesus uttered a
loud shout and expired. Before Hector died, he predicted Achilles' death as divine punishment
for his violence against him. Trojans mourned him as though their city had been destroyed from
top to bottom. Jesus' death anticipated the fall of Jerusalem and the temple whose curtain was
rent from top to bottom. Can I make a comment on that? Just an emphasis. It must be emphasized
that Hector's death implied the death of Troj as a city. Jesus' death implied the death of Jerusalem.
Dude, you don't even know how profound that is what you just said. That is no spot on.
And that's why I think Mark chose the death of Hector because he wanted to make the death of Jesus
connected to the destruction of Jerusalem. I think that's so important to emphasize.
But let's go on. Achilles gloated that he had just slain the one Trojans considered a god.
Centurion gloated that he had just executed a bogus son of God. The women of Troy watching
Hector's death from their walls cried laments. There are three of them, Andromache, Hecuba, and Helen.
Three women, the same number, watched Jesus' death from afar and presumed be lamented.
They included Mary of Towertown. But see, if I were a Christian apologist, I'd say, well,
everything that happened on the right-hand side happened just that way. And it was just,
happenstance that you had something similar in the Iliad or God already inspired the Iliad
as an anticipation of the death of Jesus. And both of those solutions are obviously silly
if I could use an apologist's word. Can I emphasize again, this is an important point.
And I can put myself in the shoes of people who may not, it might be impressive to them,
but you're so used to mowing through your mimesis here that these powerful points we have to repeat
to remind people. The women of Troy watching Hector's death from their walls cried laments.
There's three women. Adrum, it was Adromache. Andromache, Hecuba, and Helen. She's in a tower,
you said. She's in a tower watching Hector die. Three women watched Jesus' death from afar and
presumably lamented. They include Mary Magdalene, which is Magdalene's tower town, woman from tower
town. So you have this really interesting three women watching the death of their hero that if
they die, the temple, their city's destroyed. And they're lamenting his death. And one is
literally in a tower. And the other one is a Mary of tower town. I have to emphasize that.
Yeah, good for you. Okay, Derek, let's
now that you mentioned that, though, I just want to say something real quick, because
if you go up to the part where it talks about him lamenting for his, his God,
that word subah, subah kathoni, it almost, if you're like, because the Mary, the tower thing,
pun, I'm arguing this might, and it might be new to both of you right now, but
there's someone who's teaching me a Greek point of this out. And I think they might be on something
that might be a pun. That might be a pun for Hades. Kathoni is a is a title for the underworld
God. Oh, that's true. Yeah. Kathoni and deities. That makes you look at look on the other side,
you got Hades with a shout. I'm just saying that you might you might even be under going,
you might be going under what your score. Well, and we also know that there's a word play because
Eloy Eloy is accepted by is interpreted by the people around as a call for Elijah. So the fact
that you have this semantic density of word play. That's what I'm saying. There's something going
on with that. I love I subah kathoni. I think it's I think there's a pun happening there.
That could very well be and then the stuff that the what does it say the temple splits or whatever
the curtain. So yeah, something's going on with that. But Eric, I mean, Neil, I have a question
for you. Sure. And Derek, too, I'll give it to the question. Isn't this way of reading the
Gospels more fun? Absolutely. I think so. It's also why I love learning Greeks. I can I can
I can make theories like that and throw it at scholars like you, McDonald. But you know,
but it challenges your imagination. And the issue is not who's right or wrong, but who has the most
beautiful and compelling interpretation of the the cleverness of these authors and these texts.
So I think when you make those judgments, Neil, you're being inspired to do so in a way. Yeah.
Okay. Okay, so let's see. I think it's you and me, Derek on the next ones.
Um, pre M King of Troy set out at night to rescue the body of his son Hector from his murderer Achilles.
When it was late, Joseph of Arimathea, a distinguished member of the council who was
also himself waiting expectantly for the kingdom of God. The journey was dangerous. He entered
Achilles abode and asked for the body of Hector. Dare to go to pilot and ask for the body of Jesus.
Achilles was amazed that Priam dared to enter his home.
Then pilot was amazed that he might already be dead and summoning the centurion. He asked him
whether he had been dead for some time. Yeah, those don't look very similar, but even your
viewers should be able to see the similarities in the language at place and play a and told
my sauce. They're the same root basically in Greek of daring to go to someone. And we're going to
see that just as pilot summons the centurion. We have the summoning of servants later in
the Iliad. Okay Achilles granted Hector's body. Oh Hector's body had been saved from desecration.
A hasty burial saved his body from desecration. Achilles granted Hector's body to his father.
When we learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the body to Joseph.
Then the maid servants washed and anointed his body with oil and wrapped it in a beautiful
cape and tunic and Achilles himself lifted it and placed it upon the beer. And having bought a
linen shroud and taken him down, he wrapped him in a linen shroud and placed him in a tomb
that had been cut out of rock. The Trojans took the bones and placed them in a golden chest
and covered it with soft purple robes. Immediately then they placed it in a hollow ditch and heaped
large stones over it. And he rolled a stone at the door of the tomb.
Earlier Achilles maid servants had washed and anointed Hector. Earlier a woman had anointed
Jesus for his burial. Now of course the difference is Hector stays in his tomb and Jesus rises from
it. But both we anticipate the fall of the city. So a couple of things just put in my highlighter
on. Catch the things I don't get, Dennis, that you want to emphasize. But Hector, the hero of the
city of Troy, dies. That's the doom of the city of Troy. Jesus, the hero of Jerusalem, dies. The
doom of the city of Jerusalem is taking place here. And then you have Priam, the father of
Hector. At night he has the courage to, in a crazy situation, to try and go and get the
body of his son from Achilles. Which means, good chance you're going to get killed. This guy is
not a good guy. In the Gospel narrative, at least in Mark, because I think there's kind of white
wash in Roman stuff over time. But in Mark, you know, Josephus has the guts to go, or not Josephus,
Joseph of Arimathea, goes and has the guts to get the body of Jesus from Pontius Pilate,
just like Priam has the guts. Interesting note, Priam's the father of Hector. Joseph is the name
of the father of Jesus. But it isn't his actual father, as far as we can tell, Joseph of Arimathea.
But it might be a play on the word or the name there, that a guy who has the same name of his
father is going with guts to go up to this guy that is not a good dude. And they're both being
they're both being saved from a shameful death to a to a honorable death, to an honorable burial.
There's a similarity there. Yeah. And one more thing about Derek's comment, and then I'll be
quiet for a bit. Of course, Mary of Nazareth is not the one who anoints her son after he has
an early death. It's two other Marys, right? Just as you have Joseph as the name of the father,
playing the role of Priam. It's two other Marys. And one of the Marys is two boys that have the
same names as Jesus's brother. The Mark and evangelist is saying, catch on. It's not the
family of Jesus that cares for him. It's those who are doing the will of God in their theology.
That's a good point. Also, I don't want to, if you saw the movie Troy, the Brad Pitt movie.
Yeah, sure. That does not going to do you no justice to how central the death of Hector is.
And the text, like obviously, I'm writing the translation because I'm not like a fluke. I can't
like read ancient Greek. But the text that I have, it does a good job of highlighting how
important, how central the death of Hector is to the Iliad. It's the biggest part of the whole
entire story. In fact, the Aeneid ends with an imitation of the death of Hector with the death
of Ternus. And instead of the death of a city, you have the founding of a city, namely, Rome now
can represent a merging of the two peoples. That's how the Acts of the Apostles ends with Paul in Rome,
allowing for the merging of Jews and believers into the kingdom of God. I mean, this play goes
on and on. And unless you see the Homeric and poetic background, you don't understand what's
going on in the text. You just don't. Those are the last things I want to say about this because
this is undeniable. Central to Christianity is the death and resurrection of Jesus.
Central to the Iliad is the death of Hector and the mourning of the king and Achilles giving the
body back over. There's something central to that text that this is so central to that text. But
the thing I wanted to say to Christians that might be like, whoa, this is,
I think if anything, if Christians own this, this would make their religion more impenetrable.
You have a universal religion that's drawing from all the ancient rites,
and you don't want, you want to hide from that? It makes your book way better, in my opinion.
I'm just saying. Yeah, sure. Yeah, but you know how that one plays out. I mean,
there's something unique in their ideology about we have the truth, no one else has it,
that kind of thing, rather than playing fair on the playground and everybody can have their
toys. And we have our toys too. They need to have the special toys. And that's why I played that Dan,
that Dan Barker basement video before we started, because I'm actually going to launch that short.
And he's like, imagine walking down the street. And I said, Hey, hey, hey, you're walking mine.
I go, Hey, hey, hey, listen, listen, I've got good news. And you're like, what, what, listen,
you don't have to go down into my basement. And looking at you like, well, what are you talking
about? You don't have to go down into my basement. He's like, Yeah, yeah, yeah, listen, I, I, you know,
sometimes I get really angry, people come and follow me. And so I created this, this torture
chamber down in my basement with knives and fire and all sorts of stuff, because I'm really,
really upset that people aren't listening and following me. But you don't have to worry about
that anymore. Why do I not have to worry about that anymore? I sent my son down there. And so
his blood was spilled and I tortured him. So now you can believe in, you know, in my son,
and we can go live in my attic. How does that sound? You can tell me how good I am.
No, no, that's a brilliant analogy. I want to go back to Neil's point, though,
because I really don't, I think it is important. When I begin my classes, and I haven't been in
the classroom for 10 years now, but I would often begin my classes with clips from the Bill
Moyers conversations with Joseph Campbell. And Joseph Campbell was the scholar who wrote the
Here With a Thousand Faces. He was a Jungian and used the Jungian theory to talk about the
universality of mythologies. And that's a very important thing to consider, that you have world
religions and world mythologies that have analogies with each other, and they have similar
psychological functions. Folkloreists, though, have been suspicious of Joseph Campbell's work
because the differences between the manifestations of these stories often are more important than
their similarities. But the question that I've been to give my students around Easter time
is, for you, the resurrection of Jesus important because he was the only person raised from the
dead? Or is it important because it's the Christian variation of the victory of life over death
and a sense of immortality? And I think the problem with Christian apologists is that they
want to make such special claims for their religion without understanding that their religion is a
riff on other kinds of mythologies. Now, this is not mimesis. This is more the history of religions.
It's more the kind of thing that I think Neil has been fascinated by with the common mythologies.
But I think this is a basic turning point in how we understand things. And I think it's a big
difference between David Litwa and myself, by the way, that I think Litwa is more oriented toward
the Greek manifestations of the hero with a thousand faces, where you have that a reoccurring
in Christian texts. And I would say that, yes, you can have that, but the Christians are really
riffing off of Homeric expressions of the same universals. But I think this tension between
the universal and the sociologically and historically distinctive is a fascinating problem.
And Neil, I think it would be interesting for you to have scholars on both sides of that issue
work at a common mythology to say, is this a universal phenomenon, or what makes it sociologically
and historically distinctive? Okay, I'd like to get to some of these superchats if we can.
Yeah, good. So I'm hoping my goal is to have sincere question, comments,
critiques, anything you want to ask, as long as you're respectful, I'm totally fine with that.
You can be triggered, but just be respectful. I don't mind. But yeah, so scrolling back up to the
tippy, we have some great people in here. Let's go this way, Neil. We're going to have all three
of us equally on the screen here. Some great people in the chat. Hit that like button. And before we
start, you got to get a copy. Right now I looked on Amazon Dennis, it's going for 29 bucks.
Paperback. And this is solid. This is a big book. So you got everything in all in one spot.
Goodness gracious. It's so yeah, there's all sorts of good stuff in here. He even has some
visuals in here from time to time. But you got to get you a copy of this. It's great. Okay,
there's my shameless plug. It's pinned at the top. Superchats. Let's see. I hope I hope
fingers crossed, close my eyes. I hope that we can get some Christian apologists in here
who have questions. Superchat your questions. Challenge. What's up? Bring it. You know, bring
it. Gloves are off. Dennis isn't playing games. Brave new history. Thank you for the Superchat.
How could we run a data analysis to objectively test Mamesis?
I actually think there are ways to do it. But I think basically the spotting of Mamesis is
subjective, just as the reading of literature generally is. One way more objectively to
identify it, though, let's say that you have an overlapping term in the Homeric epics, and you
have another one that is similar or identical in the Gospels. You can run data analysis to find
out how unusual that connection is, or you may have a string of motifs, and you could then do an
objective assessment of how often those motifs appear in that same sequence in ancient literature.
So I actually think there is a place for science and for data crunching in Mamesis.
In the long term, though, I think it has more to do with imagination, and that's always difficult
to demonstrate analytically. But I do think we can be more creative in seeing how unusual
some of these materials are that link things together. Thank you, Brave New History.
Oh, I skipped one. Sorry. Scott Daniel says, Chat GPT wrote the Gospels Problem Solved.
Thank you, Scott. Nitty says, You can see the Mamesis technique used in martyrdom accounts of
the first apostles. They borrow from the Gospels to tell a new story of the apostles. All you have
to do is read them with your brain on. Nitty, you're exactly right. Yeah, there's no doubt about it.
Why is it that Peter is crucified upside down? Then you have Andrew crucified on a cross at the
edge of the sea, tied to it, but not nailed to it because it's like Odysseus at the mast.
So the Gospels themselves become targets of Mamesis. There's no doubt about it.
Wow. Thank you so much for that, Nitty. Christine Elise, thank you so much for the
Super Chat. Three awesome people. Thanks for the discussion. I rarely paid attention in my
comparative mythology classes, but I can't put down Dr. McDonald's books. Oh, my God. Great. Thanks.
Thank you so much, Christine. I really appreciate the support. MNAG with the Super Sticker.
Really appreciate you, MNAG. And to give the thumbs up, wanting to make sure I didn't
miss you there. I know you sometimes will drop comments. Okay, I cannot pronounce because I
do not read it. You think the Koran does Mamesis? I wish I were more of a scholar of the Koran.
And when I have tried to work with the Koran, I found that I was not intellectually capable
of understanding the complexities of it. So I'm going to have to listen to humanists,
to our authorities on the Koran. I do know that there is rewriting of Jewish and Christian
literature in the Koran. Now, whether that qualifies as Mamesis or more of
a Haggadic or Midrashic reprise, I'm not so sure. So actually, this is a fascinating question,
though. That is, we have all kinds of different intertextualities going on. Mamesis is just one.
Another is redaction. Another is Midrash. And so I would expect that Muslims created their own
forms of intertextuality that may be a hybrid of various models. But your question is very
important. I just wish I were more an authority on it. You know what I think the closest thing that
I could say about that is the dual karnane thing, where you have a character in the Koran whose
name is dual karnane, which means two horned one. And he builds a wall between two mountains.
And he erects a barrier to keep out Gog and Magog from invading the lands of civilized people.
In the Greek Alexander romance, Alexander, who has horns on the coin,
builds a wall between two mountains to keep out Gog and Magog.
And we know the Greek Alexander romance was translated into Syriac. So we know there was
maybe Arabic too, I'm not sure, but I know for, yeah.
I have an academic on that actually did a, like he's an expert on the Koran,
who actually showed that this author is aware of the Alexander romance. And this is where they got
it. Gettysburg, demoniac, regarding Mimesis criticism of the Gospels and Homeric epics,
what problems does this pose for the historicity of the synoptic Gospels?
I don't know who the Gettysburg demoniac is, but it's not a diabolical question. It's a very
good one. I'm going to go out on a limb and it's not unusual for me to do so. I think apart from
what the authors of the Gospels could have inherited from the Q document, and in some cases
from a knowledge of Paul, certainly Luke knew Paul's career and letters. I don't think there's
very much that the authors of the synoptic Gospels knew about Jesus at all. I don't think
there's a robust oral tradition that is independently informing them. Now, I'd love to
I'd love to have several sessions, maybe even a whole class, on reconstructing the
Lost Gospel Q, but I want to say my Q is not the Q that you know from other scholars. And my Q
is longer. It's built on different criteria and it offers a new solution to the synoptic problem
generally. And Mr. Gettysburg, it also allows for a new understanding of the historical lameness
of the synoptic Gospels. Now, after all, they weren't interested in writing history. They were
writing historical fictions in order to give insight to the communities of their readers.
But I think it has, if memesis criticism is right, it does challenge the historicity of the
Gospels. Now, I want to have one caveat on what I just said. A literary judgment is not the same
as a historical judgment. So I can make a claim, for example, that Judas Iscariot never existed
on the basis of his being like Melantheus in the Odyssey. But of course, that judgment
is a literary judgment. It's not necessarily a historical judgment. So yes, there could be a
Judas Iscariot. And I'm not in a position to know that. What I would say is that all of the
evidence we have for Judas Iscariot points to Melantheus. I'd say the same thing of Mary Magdalene,
or Joseph of Arimathea. And I can understand why Christians who are fascinated by the
depictions of their mythologies wish to say that there were characters who, in fact,
were called Judas and were called Mary Magdalene and so on. That's okay. What I would say, you don't
have, though, very good historical or literary evidence for their existence.
And can I add something to this? That is, suppose there is a literary memetic
thing happening. And let's go with one that isn't in your vein, one that is accepted almost ubiquitous
across critical scholarship in New Testament studies. That is, let's just say Matthew, because
Matthew, the next Super Chat is going to address this too, and you'll get to dive in it. But Matthew
is memetically comparing Jesus and Moses, but Jesus is the new lawgiver and he's much better
than Moses, et cetera. The question then becomes, all right, while he's drawing on this character
from the Hebrew Scriptures, the Septuagint, to paint Jesus as a better Moses, at what point can
you say, when you know that he's doing this with purposeful literary intent, what Jesus actually
historically did or didn't? So this is my problem when I've talked to Dr. Allison, Bill C. Allison
Jr., who does his memory studies. He argues something has a memory behind it and something
doesn't have a memory behind it. He talked about the 40 days in the wilderness temptation
and fasting of Jesus. And he said, well, I think that this story is simply trying to say Jesus
was an exorcist. That's about as much memory as he pulls from that. He thinks that. For me,
I get it. I'm like, okay, it's interesting to hear it, but like, there's no way to ascertain any
historical verification or validation from these narratives when they have a literary
intention, you can assume, you could say, well, maybe that's also historically reliable,
but I don't know how it's even possible. That's right. And that's true over and over and over again.
Yeah. And that's something that I just keep nailing down. I don't see how we're dying on the
hill of confidence that this actually happened. When we see very good reason in literary,
there's creativity, it's imagination. This is not what seems to be literally happening.
Right. Right. Anyway, Gettysburg, demoniacs back again says, does Matthew incorporate
Homeric parallels like the other gospels, or is his connection mostly to the Hebrew Bible?
Gettysburg, thank you again. Of course, his commitments are mostly to the Hebrew Bible.
There's no doubt about it. But there's one, I'm so glad you mentioned this, because there's one
passage where Matthew adds to the death narrative of Jesus and has an independent
imitation of the Iliad. In other words, Matthew knows what Mark has done. Matthew knows that
Mark has imitated the Iliad. How can we say that? Only in Matthew do we have guards at the tomb.
And it's the sealed rock. And an ongelos comes down and rolls away the stone and is
in glory. And the guards become like dead men. They can't do anything. Now, what happens when
Priam goes to rescue the body of his son? The guards are put to sleep. And the heavy bolt
that is at Achilles Bivouac is thrown open because of Hermes. And Hermes is called in Greek an
ongelos. He's an angel. And so then the guards are still asleep so that Hermes, the ongelos,
can lead Priam and his herald Edeus safely out with the body of Hector. Matthew knows what
Mark has done and he adds his own Homeric imitation. Now, a criterion seven of Mimesis
criticism is ancient recognition of this Mimesis. Matthew recognizes it. And by the way, so did Luke
because Luke adds his own parallels from the Iliad. Now, you can't explain that kind of density of
Mimesis of the same book of the Iliad without appealing to direct, conscious, and creative
literary imitation. I'm sorry. Can I highlight that again? I want to put that into Derek Lambert
dumb, dumb terms. Okay. And that is in the Iliad, you have Hermes that's being sent by Zeus to go
and help get Priam to the body where Achilles has the body. So what does Hermes do? He puts all of
the soldiers. What are at the tomb of Matthew? Soldiers, Roman soldiers to sleep. Roll away the
stone. Jesus escapes the tomb. They get the body. In Priam's case, Achilles is shocked that Priam
shows up. How did you get here? A God must have helped you. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So Priam flies,
by the way, that's another thing. Priam has wings or it seems, not Priam, sorry. Hermes flies and he
gets there and he helps him get the body from Achilles. So there's something here. And it
seems interesting, the connection you're making on that. I just wanted to highlight that.
Hermes is a very good question. Hermes is an angelos. He's the messenger. Yeah, that's right.
Yep. Interesting point now. Thank you, Gettysburg. Do the parallels in the Homeric epics provide
insight to the original motivation for the writing the Gospels or for writing the Gospels?
Oh, absolutely. Now, not for the writing of the Q document, but for the writing of Mark.
And the reason that we can say that is that so many of the imitations that one finds in Mark and
later in Luke have parallels in Virgil's Aeneid of the same passages in Homer that Virgil
of almost a century earlier had imitated now are imitated also in the Gospels. Now,
Mark is writing after the Jewish war and he is not fond of Roman power. And in fact, it's Jesus
was crucified after all and the Romans destroyed the city of Jerusalem and many of the followers of
Jesus no doubt died in that carnage as well. So he is trying to say this is competitive memesis.
They're targeting the same passages in Greek poetry. But the accounts of Jesus show him to
be superior not just to Jewish heroes, but also to Aeneas. And the God of Jesus is more compassionate
than the likes of Jupiter and Venus and Apollo and so on. So I think your question is right on
target. We need to see that the writing of memesis in Mark is competitive with Virgil as a part of
his social struggle to give place to not just place of the Jewish community, but to help them
understand their situation after the war. Thank you so much. Gettysburg, Demoniach,
do most non-canonical Gospels have similar parallels, themes to Homeric epics?
No, but they are in the apocryphal acts of apostles. For the most part, the so-called
non-canonical Gospels simply parrot the Gospels themselves without independent
imitations of Greek poetry. And you, just to point out, in non-canonical material,
that was where you first discovered some of this. The acts of Andrew, that's right. Yeah.
So thank you. Imnag, thank you again for the support. I greatly appreciate your work,
not that I'm looking for talking points when confronting my fundamentalist family,
but it sure helps to know that you're speaking on points that can be proven by literature and
actual history. I'm so glad it's helpful to you. Thank you, Imnag. I appreciate that. Joe Medley,
really appreciate that. Joe, did you have anything for me? So you know, Joe, for doing
that super chat, Hermes is going to fly to your house next. That's right. That's right. I'm scrolling
down here. Imnag again. Dr. McDonald, thank you always, wanted to pair all these stories in real
time to their true origins. I can't tell you how this is helping me personally. You know,
it helps me too. I was a fundamentalist. I'm a graduate of Bob Jones University.
I planned to be a Christian minister or missionary, as was my father. And when I became
more socially aware because of the civil rights movement and because of the war in Vietnam at
the time, and then the dangers of capitalism and what we're doing to the world. Yes, I'm woke,
but I'd rather be woke than asleep.
And having a way of understanding, by the way, from before
after Bob Jones and before going to Princeton for a seminary, I translated the whole Greek
a New Testament for myself. I had my own translation that I did when I was 22.
And in reading that, I became aware of the moral horizon of early Christians.
And I knew that if I were to stay a Christian, I would have to be a different kind of Christian
and try to find a way to carry on the moral sensitivities of compassion, of inclusion,
of caring that I saw in the New Testament. Now, I'm an atheist now, but that was a very
important transition for me from fundamentalism to the religious values of these early Christians.
And it wasn't a big leap to go from their values to their mythologies and to see them
in a struggle with the Roman Empire and used comparative mythology as a way of managing that.
Just one comment. I have a lot of videos with you, Dennis, for everybody who's watching that I
haven't made public yet. We probably have 20 or 30, maybe 35 videos. And in one of those,
I actually get your testimony. And there's a moment when you were at your conservative college
and Martin Luther King, Jr. was shot and killed. And they did not give him any respect. They
showed him very little respect. And it was a sign. Can you make a brief comment on that?
That was a powerful moment in your testimony. I will have that video up at some point, but
I'll give you a very brief version of it. When I was in an auditorium with 3,000 faculty and
students at Bob Jones and the president of the university at the time, Bob Jones, Jr.
came to the stage after a lecture by a John Bircher and said that
Martin Luther King, Jr. has just been shot. This is April 2, 1948. And the president has
asked us to fly the flag at half-mast, will not fly it for an apostate. At which moment, my friends,
everybody that I could see stood up, cheered, and clapped. In the dormitories, we were to have
prayer readings every night. And I went back to the dormitory prayer meeting and I said,
we're not praying. We're talking about what had happened. And for that kind of celebration,
because anybody got killed, especially someone who's attempting to be a moral sports person
as a Christian minister, that is just outrageous. The next day, I was almost expelled from the school
for forbidding prayer. And so they called my dad, who was a Baptist pastor, and said that Dennis is
going to be expelled from the school and this is why. This is my senior year. And he said,
let me talk to Dennis if he's there. So I talked to my dad and told him what I had said. And I handed
the phone back to the dean and I heard my dad yelling, Gilbert, you do what you need to, but
I've never been prouder of my son. And I've never been prouder of my dad. And it's that kind of hate
that fundamentalism breeds, unfortunately, in some cases, not in everyone. And my father was a
fundamentalist, but he was a champion of civil liberties, including the issues of race and
anti-Semitism and so on. So he was a compassionate fundamentalist. But Bob Jones is not. And too
many of the people who have slammed my work, I think are motivated. I'm sorry by hatred.
Thank you, Dennis. Appreciate you taking the time to tell us about that.
Stop scamming, man. Hello, Dennis. In your estimation, what did the Gospel writers envision
when they spoke of the Holy Ghost? I think what are the things that's wonderful about the ancient
world is that it's not populated just by gods and by mortals, but it's also populated by demons.
And it's populated by angels. And it's populated by the wisdom of God. And the heavens are open.
There's a kind of ladder of being in ancient literature and religion that makes it really
quite confusing. And the Holy Ghost is an awful way to talk about it. It rather has to do probably
with the sacred spirit. And it's the spirit of God. It's not a ghost at all. And it's similar to
what Jews would understand as the wisdom of God or the spirit of God as a messenger of the divine
and on the loss of sorts. So there are actually whole books that are written on the various names
of deities and demons and spirits and so on. So that there's a traffic jam going on in antiquity
between heaven and earth, full of these various carriers of information and the demonic and so on.
So I don't know that I'm authority on the field, but we have to understand that for the ancients
the universe was populated by lots of divine forces.
This did bring up the memetic connection to Telemachus for a second, just to highlight for people.
Jesus is baptism by John the Baptist at the beginning of Mark. Notice he's being baptized.
It's the heavens kind of open up, right? This dove, the spirit of God in the shape of a dove
flies or the spirit of God flies down and rests upon Jesus. The next scenes that you see in the
gospels once the Holy Ghost or Holy Spirit rests on Jesus as he goes out and he speaks with confidence
and he's going into his own city and they're going, is this the Jesus that we know? Like,
what got into this guy? We know his mother and his father. We know who this guy is. What happened?
If you go to the Telemachus part of the Odyssey and you see how Athena, feminine divine, flies
down Telemachus and really, oh, I forgot to add the detail. This detail become clear,
tells Telemachus because Telemachus is starting to doubt if he's his father's son.
He's wondering, like, is Odysseus my father? And she kind of reminds him and empowers him and says,
he's not only your father, Telemachus, he's coming back and he's not dead. Like, don't worry, he's
not dead. Telemachus goes and speaks to the suitors in the house and lets them know, like, you know,
my dad's alive and I'm not afraid of you assholes. And they're like, what got into Telemachus? Well,
what the heck? Why is he being so confident? This isn't the same Telemachus. That same kind of idea
is what you are showing. The divine flies down to the person that they're empowering. And I thought
that was an interesting connection just because they brought up Holy Ghost. Thank you so much for
that. Space checker says, can you guys go into why it's probable that Mark New Homer and how Greek
was taught in antiquity, please? Everybody knew Homer. If you could write Greek, you knew Homer
because Homer was the backbone of Greek education. It's like saying, it's like saying, can you prove
that everyone in America knew the Beatles? Yeah, but even more so, the Beatles don't determine
cultural identity the same way that Homer did. So that one of the first lines that kids, boys,
because girls didn't have this education as a rule, the boys wrote was Homer was not a man but a god.
And then if you wanted to learn how to write names or write the alphabet, you were given
Homeric names. And so that you would write out the name Hector, you'd write out the name Achilles,
you'd write out the hard names like Clytemnestra and Agamemnon. And so that you,
Homer was everywhere at almost every level. So that, and it was the reason for it in the space
checker is that Homer wasn't just a way of learning how to write and read. He was also learning how
to be Greek. And so that there was social cachet attached to literacy that Homer could offer.
Now, school boys hated it because they were learning a language that they weren't speaking at home.
They weren't speaking with their friends. So they had to learn this Homeric Greek.
And in many cases, they didn't even know what the language was. So they had to have their own
lexicon that went from Homer to Cornet Greek. And we still have copies of it with Apollonius
Sophista. So that's a great question. But everybody knew Homer. And if you could read Greek,
you've been exposed to the Homeric epics visually. Now that, by the way, isn't a postulate of
memesis criticism. That is well known by all classists. So that, that piece, we can take home.
Absolutely. Thank you, space checker. Gaius Julius Windex, what happened to Uticus and Axe first, Homer?
Yeah, there's a parallel to Uticus in El Paynor, who is, gets drunk at Searsie's house, falls, and
his soul goes to the netherworld. And by the way, he's called unfortunate El Paynor. And he meets Odysseus
in the netherworld when he goes to see Thereseus to find out how to get home. And Odysseus goes back
and among back to Searsie's island. And with great tears, buries the body of unfortunate El Paynor.
Uticus similarly, oh, by the way, the way El Paynor dies as he gets drunk and falls down and breaks
his neck. Yeah, this story in Uticus is Uticus, whose name means lucky, by the way, similar to the
opposite of unfortunate El Paynor, falls, it breaks his neck, but doesn't die. And at dawn,
instead of burying the body, we have resurrection. And in both cases, the burial and the resurrection
happened at dawn. And Luke wants the reader to see this similarity. And by the way, the El Paynor
story was was imitated twice in Virgil's Aeneid. So it was widely known. Wow. So that basically Luke
saying, look, guys, in your world, you're going to Hades, you're doomed. But if you have Jesus,
you'll be resurrected, you'll be saved forever. And lucky. And lucky. Right. Yeah, exactly.
He doesn't want to be lucky. Seriously, appreciate that, Gaius. Next one we have is Teresa W. Curious
if any literature scholars have taken a look. It seems like it needs new eyes, a different
perspective. Enjoying the book. Actually, I think, yes, I want literature scholars to take a look.
But I also want biblical scholars to take a look at literature scholars. That is, I think there's a
lot to be learned by an appreciation of comparative literature, generally, and how that works, how
the human imagination eclectically puts together characters and episodes to make compelling narratives.
So I think we need to have a symbiosis between fields that open up biblical scholars to more
robust understandings of literature. And by the way, literature is full of imitation.
It's hard to know a genre that isn't. I mean, how many people imitated the genre of Sherlock Holmes or Agatha Christie?
Right. I mean, so it becomes a growth industry. Well, I think the same thing happens in the New Testament.
Thank you for that. Hi, Dennis. Is there an issue of tablets and text languishing in archives,
not publicly available, and there for scholars to write on at their leisure?
I don't think so. I don't know of them, but we can always hope. If we, I don't think we have tablets,
but it's quite possible that we have text that would help us. But if they do, they often, they might
they might not be in Greek or Latin, they might be in Arabic, they might be in Syriac,
and many of them might be in Armenian, because the Armenians were very good about preserving
otherwise unknown Jewish and Christian texts. So there are parts of Philo, for example, that only
appear in Armenian. So, but I also have to give credit to textual critics who have been really
thirsty to find new materials and to archive them. And the ones that are most important,
I think, are now available. By the way, I would want to make an argument that the right way to
excavate for Q is the same way the textual critics do their work in trying to excavate for
lost gospels and lost sources otherwise. So, but it's a great question. I wish we could find
something more tangible in some cases that we can run with. My guess is that we will find them,
but they may be in languages that are not in Greek or Latin. I was going to ask you,
the chin tona is of course something important there. Captain Dadpool in the house,
if you haven't subscribed, make sure you do so. Sorry if you've addressed this already,
but what is your response to the accusation of Parallelomania that you receive from other scholars?
I think they have Parallelophobia. And I would say that Mimesis requires one to recognize that
many ancients were Parallelomaniacs. They loved the Parallels. They were taught how to write the
Parallels. They expected the Parallels. They were able to carve social identities out of the Parallels
to show that their deity or their community was more moral or compassionate and so on.
We have early Christians that were making parallels between Jesus and Addis and Osiris,
the Gnostic hymn. We have the Gnostic hymn. It's preserved through Hippolytus and Irenaeus.
I actually had a philosopher friend who said that almost all advances in knowledge
are due to comparison of one thing over another. You have it in science. You have it in religion.
By the way, I was there when Sandmel first articulated Parallelomania at the Society
Biblical Literature and people were hysterical. They just laughed and laughed. And I did too.
And there's a truth to it. If these texts are not simply riffing on earlier texts,
they can be appreciated for themselves. You can isolate them and describe what's going on with
characterization or the ideology or whatever. It's okay to have that kind of a synchronic
understanding of literature. It's okay. I do it myself. That's why I like the Gnostic so much.
Derek, can I show them the Gnostic hymn real quick? Sure. I have it right here. So this was a hymn to
Addis originally. But according to Irenaeus and Hippolytus, two of the sources that we have that
both say this, they said this hymn was taken by a man named the Gnostic preacher in the middle
of the 2nd century. He lived in Turkey. He took this hymn, it was a Homeric hymn to Addis,
and he basically said this is to Jesus now. So he says that Jesus is born of Chronos,
Zeus, Aurea. I hail the Addis. The Assyrians call you Adonis. All Egypt calls you Osiris,
and so forth. You can read the whole thing yourself. Virginians, Papas, all the name and all
these gods in there and saying that Jesus is basically what he was saying was what they are
looking for in those gods that really are found in the Christ. So we have evidence of early
Christians doing this. I'm just throwing that out there. Yeah. You said it best at one point,
Dennis, that the ancients lived with parallelomania, meaning they were doing it. Indo says,
why do apologists like McClatchy dismiss this so quickly? It seems crazy to me. It reminds me
of Carrier pointing out how the Gospels just copied from Psalms. What are the good arguments against
this? Against McClatchy? Is that what you're saying? Well, you don't even know who he is, and I do. So
he dismisses your work because it's silly because he already thinks that everything in the Bible is
just... Okay. Okay. I have an answer, I think. Okay. Okay. I would like to sit down with him
and show him the parallels that we talked about today, or he could choose any number of dozens
of parallels. And I just want to know, according to your view, how do you explain these parallels?
That is, I'm not interested in theological discussion or philosophical abstractions. I'm
interested as a historian and as a classicist to understand how texts work. Now, if you can't
tell me how the text works, then I'm going to appeal to what I think is the better way of
understanding the text. So the text itself disclaims what McClatchy says. I want to say that
another way. I'm not the one to dismantle his arguments. The texts need to dismantle his arguments.
And if his arguments don't make sense of the text, then I'm sorry, but I have to attribute what he's
doing to something else than honest and intellectual investigation. All right. Thank you, Indo.
Subscriber man says, what does the Greek word rendered heaven mean? And does it appear in
other texts? By the way, well done on going from 50, 90 K so quickly, a generation of scholars will
develop through what you've made. Yeah. Well, congratulations to you, Derek. Of course. The
word heaven in the New Testament simply in sky. It is precisely the same word as sky. It's where we
get the word uranos or Uranus. And so it just means the sky. That's it. Thank you so much.
Stop scamming man. Appreciate the support. Dustin Curley says not to sound too sensational,
but this kind of work and dialogue is so needed. People are literally dying emotionally, spiritually,
and via suicide because the grip of religion in all its forms. My wife is a therapist and she
sees it all the time. Wow. All the time. And religion can be wonderful. It can be life sustaining.
It can motivate people to do love and justice and to care for the world. I'm not against religion.
I'm against bad religion. The analogy I give is I'm a musician. I play a five string banjo.
I love music. I hate bad music. And as a scholar, I'm not going to get rid of religion. And I don't
think I need to. But I want to make a lot of good religion and a lot and avoid lots of stupid
religion. The same way I want to get rid of a lot of bad and stupid and harmful music.
So religion and music are human constructions. They're not divinely given. And we have to use
our judgment to determine which ones are going to be life sustaining and life giving and which
ones aren't. And that's going to differ from person to person and from group to group. That's okay.
But don't anybody tell me that they have a direct revelation from God that's going to tell them that
their way of viewing the world is right. I'm sorry, Mr. McClatchy. Thank you so much.
McDonald's coming in hard. Gettysburg Dmoniac. I've read all of Dr. McDonald's books and have
loved every single one. His work and his course with you are worth every single penny.
Such a brilliant gentleman and scholar. I'm humbled. Nice. I'm humbled. Thank you.
Look, when I crafted that course, part of my soul fused into it. So I'm telling you,
it's a must sign up for it. Jeffrey Anderson, what if creation was the basis for the first
mimesis? What if it was necessary? What if creation was the basis of the first? I'm not quite sure,
Jeffrey, what you mean by that? But I think it's important.
You do have the Sumerian stuff going on. I don't know if you call it mimesis or not, though.
Yeah. Derek, you know what I'm talking about, right? Because Dr. Josh always talks about how
your two waters, absolute Tiamat and the word for the word in Hebrew for the deep to home
is incognate with Tiamat. Well, yeah, the way I was having in the earth or all that stuff,
there's the sequence, it might be able to pass as a mimesis. I'm having a hard time. Maybe it's
because of the amount of stuff they put in here. If they're trying to assume actual creation in
the world has some bearing on mimesis. But without a doubt, the creation stories are doing it. What
mimesis can be also understood to be is like intertextuality. And that's what Joshua Bowen
literally writes in his book, the eighties, ten book to the Old Testament, is that the earlier
Mesopotamian, forget the Bible, because once you get into the Bible, the people who have their
blinders on will go, oh, I can't accept that. But even the Mesopotamian earlier Anzuber myth
and the later Marduk Tiamat myth, the later one is using the Anzuber myth as its template.
We know that because it talks about the tablets of destiny. And there's a scene,
once the god Nernerta kills the Anzu bird that had the tablets of destiny through the clever,
what is the name of the deity, Inky, Inku, something. Anyway, like the bird gets killed,
the feathers, it said, of the bird traveled by the wind to the other gods for them to know
that Nernerta beat Anzu. Well, in the later Marduk myth, once Marduk doesn't even have
to shoot an arrow, literally approaches Tiamat and is so overpowering and mighty that Tiamat
is killed just by the sight of Marduk. The blood of, he rips the corpse in half and creates the
universe from all existence of material matter and all from her corpse. And blood, it says,
is carried in the wind to blow. And a guy with my last name, an expert in this, Lambert,
wrote and said that blood doesn't carry in the wind like feathers. So it's an intertextuality
almost like the author didn't really think through the wind. Yeah, it's a really brilliant way to
pick up on that. Right. So that obviously Genesis is doing the same thing. And I'm not done with
that series, but that's what best I was getting out of this, Jeffrey. And DJ Frank68 says,
does the use of chiastic structure in Mark have any relevance to your hypothesis?
That's a learned question. And there are some suggestions about chiasm in Mark that I think
makes some sense. A good example is that you have Jesus's Jewish trial, then you have Peter's denial,
and then you have Jesus's Roman trial. And so you have two trials on either side of Peter's denial,
and it makes Peter's denial even more objectionable. You have other examples of it too.
There are two issues related to problems with chiasm. One is it, and I just acknowledged that
it happens, but it can be very subjective and difficult to interpret. And especially if it
becomes so obscure that readers are unlikely to benefit from having seen chiasm, though chiasm
was widespread in antiquity. The other is that I don't think in the case of Mark, he's as interested
in chiasm as he is in literary imitation. So I think what you need to do is to do some research
with comparing what others have said about chiasm and what I say and others would say about
mimesis in Mark, and see if there aren't any correlations. I would be surprised if there are
none, actually, but I just haven't worked it through. Thank you, DJ. I got one more. Gloves
are still off here, Dennis. I'm going to show you my private message here, and this is something that
Jonathan sent me. McClatchy says, on the stream with Dennis, can you ask him how he harmonizes
his thesis with the positive evidence for taking acts as history, such as the numerous
undesigned coincidences with the Pauline corpus, and points of external confirmation? I haven't
seen him address that anywhere, and I'd be interested to know his. Has he ever established
if he's read McDonald's work yet? He hasn't. I cannot imagine he's read. He's telling me that
he's even talking about it. No, no, but his questions are legitimate. All right, all right.
Okay, so let's take it for face value. And I think instead of reading my work, he needs to work,
read the work of my good friend Richard Pervo, to whom I dedicate volume two of my synopses.
And he has shown, I think, with absolute clarity, that the author of Luke Axe was familiar with
the collection of a few of Paul's authentic letters. And he used them as a way of crafting
a narrative so that people familiar with the letters would also see where these characters
fit into the Pauline narrative. So I don't think this is independent historical information. I
think it is a matter of mining the Pauline epistles, especially for names and places,
in order to help generate the narrative. So that would be my answer. And Richard's work,
his, his hermenea commentary, would be a much better resource in answering
your question, which is a legitimate one. And I'm appreciative that you're listening to this.
And I hope you will accept my challenge to give a better interpretation
than I have given of parallels between the Gospels and Greek poetry.
Well, I don't think he's going to make any parallels to the Greek poetry. If anything,
he'll do what most apologists do, and they'll try to find parallels to Hebrew Bible only.
That's the biggest apologetic I see is the poo-poo, anything non-Jewish or non-Christian,
and only allow the scriptures, because they need that to be the position they have.
It can't be eclectic. Another thing is they're going to dismiss that axis using Paul's letters.
They don't accept that. They want this historical kernel to be there. They just can't imagine
that being the case, or they're not factoring that in. And then when I do hear them say stuff
like, well, look at this undesigned coincidence between Matthew and Mark, or Luke and Mark. And
I'm going, undesigned. Like, it knows that book. You can't call something undesigned when you know
the literature is, is aware of the other literature. Like, how can you know that's undesigned when
you know these authors are working off of the other material? That's what I'm saying. It's, you're
aware of all the motifs from the Old Testament that are being applied to Jesus. You're aware of,
there's 30 of them at least. You know all that. So what is it so, like, you know the process is there.
You know the authors are doing this method, this method. It's like, it's in Greek.
Okay. I want to say one more thing that I think this is a good thing to wrap it up on.
Matthew is imitating Mark. To understand Matthew, isn't to say that he knows the gospel genre.
It's to say that he knows Mark and he's imitating it. Luke is imitating Mark and Matthew.
So that in fact, the synoptic tradition is a sophisticated mimetic chain.
So unless one can, unless one appreciates that mimesis is actually at the heart of gospel production,
you'll never be able to get to these historical questions as you want.
I like what you said there because the critique, if someone like our friend here in the chat,
handsome general, I agree with this assessment. Undesigned coincidence equals copied from previous
source, but here's the deal. It gets more complicated because they'll go, that's that you're not
accurately representing our material and they'll have examples they go into. But what I find ironic is
they'll find stuff and go, well, you're saying it's working off this material. Why didn't it copy
it verbatim and just write it out here the same way it is there as if it can't have liberty of
reworking the material, how they see fit. That's not how literature works. It isn't.
Well, let's give a plug here for your book. I have your book here for those who haven't
actually checked it out. I hope that people will. We've been working our butt off and Dennis,
this book is fantastic. Tell us a little bit about it and why people should get it
so that they also want to come back to, you know, you want to come back on the myth vision,
of course, but tell them about the book real quick, if you don't mind. 750 pages
that are divided into three volumes. The first one's on the synoptic gospels, including my
reconstruction of Q. The second is on selective passages from the Acts of the Apostles. And the
third is on the Gospel of John that is divided into the three compositional layers of the Gospel.
It is a reference work. One use needs to use it as one would use another gospel parallel
or a commentary. So I don't expect people to read through it from beginning to end.
I think it would be helpful if they read the first 60 pages continue continuously,
which would give one a sense of the methodology and so on and a few examples. So it's there to be
on your desk next to your other commentaries in Bible or the Gospel parallels, and it offers
things that you're not going to get elsewhere. The parallels are organized chronologically,
not canonically, that it goes from Q to Mark to Matthew to Luke. And then the next volume is Acts.
And by the way, the Gospel of John knows the Acts of the Apostles. That's one of the things that's
really not understood well. So it's a reference work. By the way, I'm doing another book that is
called Homer and the Quest for Q and Jesus, which is more of a sustained argument for the
lost gospel Q, which is not the Q of your fathers or mothers. But anyway, that's what this book is.
It's a reference work. It's 570 pages of things you're not going to find elsewhere. You can get
it now for less than $30. I don't know what else can sell it. There's nothing like it out there.
And by the way, if you have this book and you take it seriously, you're going to know more
about the Gospels than a lot of scholars who devoted their lives to this material.
That's a fact. This will put you right up in there,
above the beginner's level, up unto the experts. You know what I mean?
There's so much there. I also want to give a plug here. This is the course. So for those who don't
know, this is the website, mbp-courses.com. I just posted that in the chat. I'll raise it up on the
screen so you can actually see how to find it. But here's the web page, the landing page, the
website for the courses. We have multiple courses. And this one's done really well creating Jesus,
why Gospel Mark was forgotten. But the one with Dennis here is I just put so much editing into
this. And there's so much of his work that highlights this stuff. Here's an introduction
to the course with reading recommendations and all sorts of stuff. Lecture one, 18 of these.
And the video's pretty good size, mostly 20, 30 minute, maybe a little over. It's all in 4K.
It's all really high quality stuff. Perfect quality. I mean, you got to admit that is some
serious. Lots of visuals, lots of Greek visuals, all cool stuff in there. It's really good.
Yeah. I put a part of my soul into this. And it's, if you haven't taken the course,
please do so because it goes through several examples of his book and we actually show the
book, the pages as we go through it on the screen. Here's an example just to show you like
we're going through and showing you as we're reading through it and explaining what's going on.
I mean, literally we're taking a deep dive in teaching you. Then we have every episode,
we discuss, highlights, things that pop out of us, interesting things. And it helps you understand
like what Dennis's work is all about. You can take what you think is good and throw out what
you don't think is good. But at the end of the day, there's so much to chew on. You can't walk away
and not think, man, there's something to this. Something's got to be going on. It's hard not
to think that there's some imagination here that is using the Greek stuff. So I hope that people
get the course now. It's down in the description. And eventually, Dennis, what do you say we do a
Q and A on a Zoom call for everybody who signs up as a student? Oh, what a great idea. I was
wondering about that too, because I don't want people simply to be consumers. I want them to be
creative, engaged people with this material. And I would love to have something.
Great idea. We should do that. Have a couple of them, maybe.
I would.
Three couple months or something, you know?
Why not? Look, I love this. This one right here. You could never guess why, though.
Look, we go all out. I've got the music going. There's some great scenes here.
Just really well done. And I'm proud of this one. I have to admit, I'm very proud of this.
This is good work, dude. This is a good work.
Yeah. So there's my little shameless plug. Neil, thank you for joining me today. Did you want to
say anything before we have the final word to Dennis? Just check me out on YouTube.
Type in Nasik Informer in the search engine. It'll come right up.
That's right. Let me plug that here for those who have never heard of you, and I'm shocked if they
haven't. You just did a great episode with John Cloppenborg. Yeah, that one took off pretty quick.
You've done a couple. You have some more stuff coming up?
Oh, yeah. I've got video almost I did right now. It's about to maybe even be out tonight,
probably, or this, you know, by tonight, probably. It's got some good videos coming up.
Yeah. There's tons of stuff coming out. Well, I hope people will obviously check out,
subscribe to your channel. They can also support you on Patreon. You are doing this full time.
So if you like what you see, help support the people you like.
And Dennis, last words from you, my friend. What is the takeaway?
If you want to know what the spirit of the Gospels is, it's to use creativity to create
something compassionate and beautiful. And we need that. And nobody can teach you that.
That's going to come with your own imagination and your own commitment.
And I trust that you're going to carry on what the Synoptic Gospels are about,
that is the creation of a compassionate world that makes it fit to live in.
Thank you, Dennis. Appreciate everybody for watching. Hit the like button
and get his book. Check out the course. Let us know. If you get the book, leave an Amazon review.
Dennis is looking, and he's watching to see that he's getting book sells, but also that people
are leaving Amazon reviews. And that means a lot to him and to me, because that will give Dennis
incentive to want to come back on and take deeper dives on myth vision.
I'm honored, by the way, to be treated by you two gentlemen. So thank you.
Well, Dennis, if the guild doesn't want to take a look, I can tell you we'll start a new guild.
So thank you so much. I really appreciate you, everybody. We love you and never forget.
We are myth vision. Have a good one. Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back. You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and
believe whatever you want to. You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
