pre-Islamic inscriptions, epigraphic evidence, all of this stuff, we're all about wanting to know
the best we can. Sort of theoretical discussions, discussions of the same material over and over
again. A lot of people don't realize that a lot of these texts come later, describing events that
supposedly happened centuries earlier. When it comes to this field, we have a lot of questions
that we can't answer. My field of interest is pre-Islamic Arabia. A lot of this material is not
recollectives. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Today, I have Professor
Ahmad Aljalad, and that'll probably be the last time I use your first name just to be safe. I need
to perfect how to pronounce your first name there. But Dr. Aljalad, thank you for joining us here at
MythVision. You have been on my radar for quite some time with scholarly research,
pre-Islamic inscriptions, epigraphic evidence, all of this stuff. We're all about wanting to know
the best we can. Like, what's really going on? What can we learn about history and how can we
understand these civilizations? So you're just the guy for the job. Welcome to MythVision for your
first time. Good to be here. Yes, we've been corresponding for some time now, maybe a year,
trying to figure out an appropriate time to do this, and I'm glad it's worked out now. I am as
well. I am, of course, always a student. I may learn some things and make some guesses and take a
position over time in all my research, but what I like to do most of all is try to learn and hear
what professors have to teach, and then I could make my own mind up about research as I go along.
So what did you bring for us today? Well, so when we were talking about what to discuss, I think we
had, first of mind, sort of the conventional interview. What do you do? What are you interested
in? And, you know, I've given that interview already a million times online on YouTube. It's a
waste of time to do again. So what I thought, and this is what we were discussing before this
meeting, is to talk about methods in pushing the field forward and the kind of research that's
necessary, really, to go beyond sort of theoretical discussions, discussions of the same material over
and over again that kind of go in circles and we really can't come to a resolution. And this has
a lot to do with subjects that you're interested in, namely pre-Islamic Arabia, early Islam, Islamic
origins and things of this sort. And so this is timely because I've just returned from a season
of fieldwork this year in Jordan. Previously, I was in Saudi Arabia with this year in Jordan.
And so we'll talk a little bit about the importance of fieldwork in generating new data.
See, we are right now in, we can say, the age of exploration when it comes to this field. We have
a lot of questions that we can't answer because we don't have the evidence. But it's very likely
that the evidence is out there somewhere and we need to find it. It's a moment, it's a period of
exploration. I am fortunate enough to be involved in that process of exploration. It's a tremendous
privilege, exciting, it's exhilarating. And so we'll talk a little bit about some of the fun
stuff we discovered this year, some of the stuff that we discovered in previous years,
and how that's the need for that type of fieldwork in order to answer some of the questions we're
interested in. So I guess to help our audience kind of track along here with what we're going
to be discussing or what you're going to be presenting today and giving us a walkthrough is
we have ideas that are written in a lot of traditional writings, whether it be Christianity,
Judaism or Islam and their origins about how things were exactly. And a lot of people don't
realize that a lot of these texts come later describing events that supposedly happened centuries
earlier. And a lot of scholars sometimes take extremes where they don't think there's anything
to the tradition. And then you have the other side that says the tradition is everything is there
and it tells you exactly you don't need to go and pull up the rocks and look at the epigraphy or
anything like that. And we're trying to be truth on us seekers and say, hey, if this says one plus
one equals two, then we're going to go with where one and plus we're jabbing at Terrence here
together on the show. But I'm just joking. It's one plus one equal two still agreed upon or
I hope he agrees with that one. That's right. But you get where I'm going with this. It's like,
I want the facts. I want the truth here. And if tradition accurately represents something cool,
I'm for it. Just doing that with historical methodology. Yeah. So my field of primary
interest, I would not, I don't consider myself a scholar of Islam or an Islamic studies or
anything like this. My field of interest is pre Islamic Arabia. Okay, so that's of course,
in terms of written records, that takes us back to the Bronze Age up until really the
rise of Islam. Okay, the rise I would end pre Islamic Arabia with the establishment of the
Medinan state, or maybe the Medinan caliphate, right? So the first caliphate, that's where I
would I would see that as sort of the watershed moment that allows us to periodization separating
pre Islamic Arabia from what comes later. And one of the reasons why I think that that
periodization is useful is that when we move forward from there, a lot of the material we have
about pre Islamic Arabia that's produced by scholars working in the Islamic period,
a lot of this material is not recollective, not even we are not compositions of genuine
memories of what was happening in pre Islamic times, but it's rather generative. There is an
atmosphere, there's a moment in history about 150 years after the establishment of Islam and
going forward where there's a tremendous interest in antiquities and antiquarianism,
antiquarianism, sorry, what happened in ancient times. And because of that interest,
you have a process of generation, a generative process that produces stories and legends probably
based off folklore about things that happened long ago. So that material there, of course,
there's no, this is not religious material, no one would write material is inspired by God or
whatever. This was the efforts of what we would call today folklorists and antiquarianists and
so forth in the period, maybe legume and Abbasid period, trying to give us an image of pre Islamic
Arabia. But their goal was perhaps a bit different than ours. I wouldn't say that they were maybe
they weren't after exactly what happened, but rather this was storytelling in its own right,
which was pedagogical, which was, which had, you know, sort of to entertain as well, which explained
and contextualized certain things that of their own time. So that's the material we end up with
about pre Islamic Arabia. That's the most popular material. So if you go online and try to read
about pre Islamic Arabia, really, that's the kind of material that's going to inform what was going
on then. Just one comment on that because we've, I read the, there was a book you sent me to read,
we weren't going to cover that specific topic. But for those, I can't remember the name of the
book, but it's particular about these pre Islamic gods and goddesses. And what I find
interesting was that my book that I sent you? It wasn't, I don't think it was your book, but I
think you sent me a book that was someone wrote this way back in the past. It's trying to kind of
paint. Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. Sorry. Yes. Okay. Yes. I know what you're talking about. That is the famous
Kitab, Islam, the book of idols. Right. Yes. Yes. So that is, so that is the classic work on, let's
say the pre Islamic Arabian religion. All right. For me, when I read it, it sounds like, and I'm not
trying to be funny. I'm just trying to be straightforward. It sounds like there's a kind
of a propagandistic way of viewing it through the lens of we have the accurate one.
Mohammed. Yeah, of course, of course. I mean, so the way the, that kind of work begins is,
so Ben El-Kelbi has a model of history. Okay. And then he has bits of folklore, legends, lines of
poetry, and all of those disparate pieces of data are going to be interpreted through the view,
through the lens of this theory of history. And his theory of history is that in the most ancient
times, primordial man was a devout monotheist. Okay. Worshipping the one God. And then, okay,
as time passed, they sort of lapsed, they start worshiping other things. They revere humans to
such a degree that they become gods influenced by foreigners. That is for the Arabians. And that
is how polytheism comes into being, right? And this is, and all of his bits of, let's say,
Arabian lore that deal with, you know, different gods being worshiped in rituals,
they're configured within this model as, you know, arising from the corruption of primordial
monotheism. And then primordial monotheism is restored through the ministry of Muhammad, you
see? So we go complete circle, you see? So this is the model of history that he's working with.
That's also a model, by the way, that Jews had of theirs, because they believed at one point
before the Tower of Babel, one God, they worshiped the one true God. And then there's the division
of the nations, which get a single, each nation gets a God, but the one for Israel was Yahweh.
And then, of course, they end up falling away. And then they come back. And, you know what I mean?
It's interesting. Yeah, this is, of course, not a model that I'm going to kind of be came up with.
No, right? So this is fine things. There are parallel works and, for example,
Syriac that present similar things. So, so that's fine, right? That that's the model. And we have
to put the model aside. So that's the basic way of thinking about the arc of history. And then
you have these bits of folklore. You see what I mean? Yeah, somebody saying, Oh, yes, I remember,
I heard this story so and so that they used to worship this idol, this tribe used to worship
this idol, and they sang the song to the idol, this guy used to pour milk on this idol, you know,
these types of things, these types of bits of stories. Now, are these stories accurate memories,
or are they generated by the fact that if you go to somebody and say, do you have any memories
about the Jahili, the age of ignorance, right, the pre Islamic age, do you have any, any cultural,
you know, recollection of that, do you have any stories? It's very possible, considering that
there are a lot of people interested in these subjects. And that very interaction there generates
the response. Oh, yeah, of course, I have a story. And this is how it goes. But and some of these
things may not even really be that ancient. So, but just get reassigned. So for example, I was
doing my fieldwork, one of the things I always do during fieldwork, we you take some breaks. So in
Jordan, so this is the way the situation goes, you basically plan out the areas in the, we work in
the Black Desert, which is a basalt desert in the eastern Jordan, right? This is very rugged
landscape, incredibly rugged landscape, very difficult to access. You need to collaborate
with locals to figure out your way around these places completely off road. And you're talking
about moving on basalt, right? So you're in a truck four by four, and you're very, very tricky
stuff. You leave early, you make your plan, you get out to the desert, and then you get to a point
where the cars, the trucks can't go any further. All right, so you need to go by foot. So a lot
of this is hiking, right? You need to hike this stuff. And it's tremendous because, I mean,
it's so good for you. Every time I do fieldwork, I lose a bunch of weight and I come back and I
gain it all over again. It's this horrible cycle. I really should go to the gym. I haven't been to
the gym in years, but you get the idea. So it's wonderful. It's a yearly cycle. So I'm like right
about when I can't fit into my clothes anymore, but then fieldwork comes and everything's good
again. I don't need to go shopping. And so how does it go? So you get to a point where you can't
drive any further, right? And you need to hike. And then you get these wonderful days, 10-hour
days, 12-hour days sometimes. The hiking is beautiful. It's a hill country. You're going up and down
hills on rocks. It's like a stairmaster. Okay, it's really beautiful. Very hot as well. So there's
not a lot to motivate local driver who took you out there to actually go on the hike with you.
So what they'll do is they'll set up camp, put up a little tent, make some tea and coffee,
make some, how do you call it, food. And then you go into your business. At some point, you'll
need to come back. You'll need to meet up again so that you can have lunch or get some calories. So
let's say you start walking around five, maybe around noon, you come back and you want to eat,
all right? Which is quite nice. And in those moments, I think those moments are very precious
because they give me an opportunity to have conversations with the locals and get kind of
cultural information. You get to ask them about local plants. What is this plant used for? They
have all these kind of medicinal purposes they know and what this is good for. But they also
have a lot of folklore. And so I was asking our driver who was a local sheikh. He was a
sheikh, a sheikh, a tribal sheikh. And he has a great knowledge about genealogies,
right? Tribal genealogies. And his main business was conflict resolution. So when tribes have
disputes or tribes members have disputes, he kind of resolves. So he's a bank of knowledge. He knows
all that stuff. And so I asked him, can you tell me some of the traditions of the elders,
former generations, like, well, in our grandparents' day, when it didn't used to rain,
they would take out this wooden effigy, a piece of wood kind of shaped like a human,
and they would dress her up in female clothes, okay? Like a dress and everything. And then they
would call her Um El-Gayl. I'll tell you what that means in a bit. Then they would take her to the
Wadi and they would run up and down the Wadi, holding her, singing a song to her, Um El-Gayl
Yaraadeh, something, something I can't remember of the title of my head, the song he's singing.
And then they would give her offerings of dried bread. And this would be for her
to bring the rains, all right? Fantastic, right? Fantastic story. Um El-Gayl means something like
mother of the ghouls. Mother of the ghouls? Of the ghouls, of the ghouls. You know, they're kind
of gen, the ghoul, H-O-U-L, yeah, yeah, yeah. So mother of the ghoul, right? So that is tremendous.
So she's some kind of like gen goddess or something. I mean, this is historically, right? So you have
these kinds of, so those traditions survive to our day. And they're talking pre-Islamic.
I mean, this stuff is, I mean, this stuff is very old, of course. Who knows when it begins. We don't
have any kind of at the stations of it, you know, but this is, you know, you got to figure out a way
to get it to rain. I mean, this is- But my point is, is that he's like in every one of the audience
is understanding this shake is saying that he knows like way, way back. He's not saying his great
grandpa, like- No, no, no. This was his, his grandparents were doing this, man. Wow. In terms
of history, this was yesterday. That's what I was wondering. Yeah. His grandparents were doing this.
He said, you know, he said, he never did this. He said, I didn't do any of this, right? I was too,
I was too young for this, but my grandparents used to do this and he still knows the song.
Wow. Okay. This is cool. He still knows the song. How cool is that?
That's real cool. He still knows the song. His grandparents, and this is how they were getting
the rains to come. They would dress up this wooden idol and like Um El Gail and sing her songs and
run up and down the valley with her, which is tremendous. So my point being here is that those
rituals survive really to our day. You see what I mean? Yeah. So they were certainly around stories
like this folk practices and all this business were certainly around among nomads, among people in
the countryside during Ibn El Kelbi's time in the Abbasid period. Okay. Now what I would take those
kind of tidbits there as witnesses to some kinds of rituals, right? But it's the broader historical
framework in which they're inserted. You see what I mean? Yes. It's the historical interpretation
of those things. So for example, I could imagine that this is something these people are doing
and what ends up happening is, and it's probably true. It's probably true, right? That the ritual
that I just described to you was practiced in some kind of way in pre-Islamic times. For sure,
right? I mean, this is thousands of years of continuity. That's fine. But saying that, oh,
now we know about this ritual, assigning it to a particular tribe and then doing it to a particular
god and fitting it within that broader historical framework, that becomes sometimes, let's say,
problematic. That becomes something that we need to sort of scrutinize. It doesn't mean it's wrong.
We just need to scrutinize it. What are the motivations for this story being told to begin with?
Right? So for me, you have this meeting point, you always have data, but the question is,
what do you do with it? What do you do with that data? And that's what we really need to
scrutinize. We confuse the data checking out with the interpretation checking out.
Exactly. So technically, for the viewer, you're saying there may be elements of actual historical
reality to these folklore type of cultic settings of nomadic people practicing with this certain
goddess or this certain god pouring milk on a stone or this or that or slaughtering an animal,
sacrificing it to this, whatever it might be. There may be actual historical precedents for
that. It's the setting that's being put in. For me, to give an analogy, and the viewer might follow
me because we always do Bibles so much on myth vision, is the story of Abraham. Now scholars do
not think this really goes back to the era of Chaldees from way, way back in Abraham as a real
historical guy. The critical scholars say, now this is a later story, but it might reflect something
that's truthful even in the fifth century BCE with looking back to what's going on in Babylon with
cults and people having idols in their own households and whatnot. And here they are writing
an etymology for their founding hero that just so happens to be from the place that conquered them,
Babylon. So the historical setting may be kind of propagandistic and needs to be scrutinized,
but there may be a reality to some setting of cultic practice and worship and stuff of a certain
deity or deities. And this is the point you're kind of drawing. Yeah, absolutely. And it's always
that principle of you should never confuse the part for the whole. Right. Exactly. That's it.
That's it. And so that's what's tricky. That's what really complicates working with this jahili
material, material about pre-Islamic Arabia is that we have an interpretive lens that is produced
by all of the considerations in the Islamic period. And then we have data that some of it may be
genuine. So we have no idea really how to tell any of that. Right. So it's very tricky to kind of
understand pre-Islamic Arabia if we're after what it was actually like instead of what people thought
it was like. It's sort of hard to distill that from this kind of material. May I just ask you this
in light of that? Because I'm sorry, I'm poking it like it's necessary to get this knowledge. The
reason is we don't have, there's not mass production of literature in this period, in this region at
the time, correct? It's an oral society for the most part. And you're going to be showing some
interesting stuff, I imagine inscription wise, but like, doesn't that help us or correct me if
I'm wrong? I just thought the reason why we have these particular interpretations and that's what
we go with instead of alternative views is there's not this mass amount of evidence of people writing
before that that are saying this is what it is, that we have preserved or am I mistaken? I'm happy
to say that you're mistaken. Good. I am too, because I want to know. There's tons, but that's
what we're out in the deserts for. Got it. That's where it is. That's what we're exploring for,
because that's where it is. Yes, in the popular imagination, in the popular imagination. So if
you were writing on this like early 19th century and before that, even if you were, you know,
trying to work out, you know, what pre-Islamic Arabia looked like, this would be all the material
you had, okay? And you would say, well, the Arabs before, and I'm using the term Arabs here to refer
to the entirety of the population, what we might call the geographic Arabian peninsula today,
all right, regardless of whatever languages they spoke, we would say that the Arabs were,
how do you say it, illiterate, didn't write anything, completely oral culture and all this
business. And yeah, so you throw your hands up and you say, this is what we need to make new with.
But since the middle of the 19th century, actually, we've even earned the early 19th
century, but onwards and really picking up steam in the 20th century and then the golden age would
be the early 21st century, which we're in right now, is the exploration of the Arabian peninsula
epigraphically and archaeologically. And this has produced, you know, what are we at now,
maybe 100,000 texts. And that is a tip of the iceberg. I mean, there is more and more and more.
A lot of these texts are short, but when you deal with such a huge quantity, it all adds up,
let's see what I mean. Yeah. And some of them are long and very historically informative,
but there is material there. Now, why is that important? Because now we're no longer forced
to, let's say, you know, deploy this whole repertoire of, you know, theoretical thinking
to try to sort out what's going on in a source like Kitab al-Aslam. What we can do now, really,
is we can consult this material and start sketching an evidence-based history of this period.
And then we can go back to a work like Kitab al-Aslam and start to understand
what Ibn al-Kalbi was working with. You see what I mean? Yes. What kind of material, you know,
what was there? Does it match it? Does it not match it? If it doesn't match it, can we explain
why? If it does match it, does it match it? Because it's just what everyone was doing,
because I think, for example, if somebody said the pre-Islamic Arabs sacrificed to their gods,
I think that's completely a meaningless thing to say. That's true of every society. And of course,
it's going to be true. Of course, it's going to match, right? But it would match what you said
about the Greeks, if you said about anybody else, right? Everyone was always sacrificing.
But there are some details. There are some details which I think are very useful,
and we might be able to talk about those later, right? But there are some details that do
check out that show that there is some degree of memory. But then in other ways, there's a lot
of generative stuff going on where things are clearly not being recalled creatively composed
in this period. You see what I mean? Yeah. So this is the exciting moment now. We are finding out
about really what is a lost world, right? A world until the, you know, until relatively recently
in the timeline of things, we would say that the only way we had to access this world was to these
literary sources, but no longer, right? That's what's very exciting. This, just to comment,
as we're going into the images, because I want to get right into what you found and the discoveries,
and just kind of discuss what your pickets through it, is similar to what we have experienced with
the Bible. The Bible gives us this idea, this image that is drawn from various authors over
periods of time. And then you go and you find out, oh my gosh, we found an inscription from a
Pharaoh or an inscription from an Assyrian king, Ashurbanipul II, or we found the Epic of Gilgamesh,
or we find, you know, all sorts of evidence that might compete or even say something that might
be different from what we're told. Sometimes it lines up, at least in terms of the data,
like you talked about, but the interpretation is completely different. And that might tell us
something about each culture and what they're trying to do with their propaganda. I don't mean
propaganda in a negative way. You could take it that way if you'd like, but it's more like this
is their culture and the way they want to tell the story. We've figured out more. So I imagine
if we get this evidence that you're describing, we let it speak and try to understand it without
other influences causing us to have an interpretation. That's what I'm in for.
I mean, that's, yeah, in the ideal world, that's what we want to do. But this is written evidence,
right? And written evidence says nothing on its own. You know, this is, this is what I teach,
of course, a lot of what I teach is, it deals with, you know, literary sources and written
evidence. And students immediately want to say, well, what does the text really say?
Right? What does it really say? Right. And it doesn't say anything. No text says anything.
All the texts require a reader, right? I mean, this is what you know. And that's true of epigraphic
text, right? They all require a reader. So whether we like it or not, when we come to these texts,
we are bringing what we know with us, all right, we bring with us what we know to understand them.
And sometimes things are not clear, right? But ultimately, our goal is to understand these texts
as their authors understood them, right? That's our goal. And we want to bring that out. And it's
a very difficult sort of situation. So I'll give you a short example, something that's quite fun.
In my latest book, Religions and Rituals of the Nomads of Pre-Islamic Arabia, I spent some time
trying to figure out how these nomads dealt with death, okay? Which is, of course, an important
theme for any religious, let's say, ideology, right? Or framework or anything of that sort.
So how did they, pre-Islamic times, deal with death? So we look at their burials, right? Now,
there is this word in Safiyedik. These are the inscriptions that come from ancient Arabian
inscriptions that come from the Black Desert in Jordan, Syria, and northern Saudi Arabia.
This material is fantastic, uncompletely in love with this material, even though other things are
sort of, you know, taking my attention away from it in recent times, a lot of this paleo-Arabic
stuff, I have to say. But my heart is always with Safiyedik. Corpus is old, but we don't know exactly
how old. I would say the oldest we can put it is maybe third century BCE, maybe fourth based
on one inscription. We don't know really when it ends. Anyway, huge corpus, 50,000 texts or something
of that sort. There's a word in one of these inscriptions. Usually it's called, the word is
written S-T-R. It's related to an Arabic word sitr, which means shelter, okay, or tent or whatever.
So the way scholars have almost always interpreted this, all right? Actually, I've completely
interpreted this until my sort of cavalier suggestion recently, is that it's just a tent,
and usually it occurs in sentences, he built the sitr, he built this thing, he built the tent.
He built the tent, great. And it's just about, it's just a text that for some mundane reason,
the guy's recording, building a tent or setting up a tent, whatever you like. That's what the text
says, right? The problem is that's what the text says if you just open up an Arabic dictionary and
find the word that looks like it. But what does the text really say? So I looked at this word
sitr in its broader context, and it always, it very, very often occurs in conjunction with
funerary monuments in grieving for the dead, all right? So you have, he built the funerary
monuments and the sitr. Now that's sort of weird if it's just a random tent you want to sleep in.
Why would you say you built funerary monuments and then built your tent to sleep, put up your tent
to sleep in? Or he, he built a grave or a cairn and this, and the sitr and this tent. So something
wasn't quite adding up, right? It's just weird. Why do they keep building tents around graves?
You see what I mean? Yeah. You're like, what is that? So, so, so what the text actually said,
which is if you opened up an Arabic dictionary, which is just a shelter, a tent to sit in and,
and protect yourself from the elements, when we look at it in its original context,
it gives us pause, we start to scratch our heads and say, well, I don't know. But what we see in
the ancient Near Eastern context, if we look back to the ancient Near Eastern context, we see that a
lot of funerary installations, South Arabia, but also in the Levant and Sam Al, for example,
you would commemorate the dead, but you would also have something like a ritual guest chamber,
where mourners would come and spend time in and feast with the dead or, or something of this
sort. So it was part of it. There was, in other words, there was a complex ritual life connected
to the dead. The inscriptions are not describing for us in clear terms because they're often,
it was obvious to their authors, they knew what they were doing. You see what I mean?
Yeah. But, you know, what if this tent that they're building functioned in the same way?
It was a ritual shelter that the mourners would come and occupy to perform mourning rituals.
You see what I mean? Right. I found one inscription where records some guy doing the ritual grieving,
which is wagama. It's ritual grieving for the deceased in the citib. So a guy is leaving
innards. Okay, that's very close. And looking at more things, I basically came to the conclusion
that this tent is, even though if we just read it as a text says, it's not that if we look at it
more broadly, this tent is a ritual shelter associated with rituals to commemorate and mourn
the dead. One reviewer scoffed and said that that is just very creative, but you see what I mean?
Yeah. Now, I am, like I said, I wanted to build the image of Safiidic religion primarily based
on those sources. I did. I wanted to avoid as much as I could bringing material from outside,
especially the Arabic literary tradition, because that then forms a lens.
Right. And then I start to read Safiidic as if it were, you know, later Arabic texts,
and that's very dangerous. You start to miss things. So let's see as much as we can what it
says. Let's interface it maybe with ancient Near East, which I think is something closer to a
culturally. Okay, fine. I was just reading randomly review in the review of this book by a
fantastic scholar, Marcel Goudarisi. He was reviewing a book by Camerber, whom and he in one
of his footnotes, he mentioned a practice that was recorded in early Islamic in the earliest,
very early Islamic period that had been forbidden by Islam, where some mourners like when something
which is the excessive grieving for the dead, such that what did they do when someone dies
that they love, they construct a tent on his grave. Now that is fantastic. I mean, that's
basically it. Yeah. Right. That's it. But I think that as these traditions were remembered,
they knew about people putting tents on graves, but they didn't quite understand what they were for.
Right. So the memory of the tent on the grave was there. But the way that they're described more
broadly is they said they would dwell in the tent for an entire year, mourning it, maybe. But I
think that, you know, that probably belonged to a whole ritual complex that is lost to us now.
Right. You see what I mean? Yep. Kind of like an ancestral kind of, I don't want to say worship,
but you could see why someone might take it that way. The point is, if you don't, how do you keep
someone alive who dies? Right? What is ultimately there is this desire on the part of not only
our Cree Islamic Arabians, but of all ancient and modern to survive in this world, somehow,
the demise of their body. And the, well, the Greeks had it, right? It was the idea of the
everlasting fame or what have you, right? Yes. We'll look at the Egyptian monuments. I mean,
basically the idea is that your memory needs to survive your body and you stay in this world
so long as you remember. You see what I mean? Yeah. And so these complex rituals with inscriptions
that name the deceased and you have people who annually visit the grave, right? Today we do
with tombstones. Yes. Precisely. You read the name of the deceased. You feast with them. You
have this whole ritual complex. It's a way of keeping that person alive in a way. It is the
post-mortem persona. You want to get that around, huh? You see what I mean? Yes. I love this,
by the way. You brought up the Greeks. They would bring food and water and milk and stuff to the
deceased and expect them to drink and eat because they're still alive somehow. They are, yes. And
so our guys are there as well. So when you see this, so you see what's going on, you have this
kind of complex web of material that you need, that all informs how we understand just the simple
line in an epigraphic text. You see what I mean? Yes. And then their world starts to come to life
to you. You say, aha, you know, this is, and in some ways it's familiar. In some ways it's not.
These are not the Islamic period literary sources and help us understand this ancient material,
but they cannot dictate what was there. You see what I mean? Yes. And we need to bring other things
and then ultimately that world starts to come to life to us. And it is a very, in many ways,
a very different world, a very exotic world. And the meaning. So a lot of people, when they,
you know, they, they read to like a Sanphiatic dictionary, they say, well, you know, why does
this word mean this? Well, I'm giving you sort of the context for why the word means this. The word
very rarely means exactly what it means in the Arabic dictionary, unless it's a simple word,
like he pastured Raya, right? Fine. But these culturally specific words, process of figuring
out what they mean is incredible. It's an adventure. I'll tell you another story in this line to
sort of contextualize this. If that's okay, do we have time? Absolutely. Check this out. In 2019,
we discovered, okay, we got to this. Why do we drive? Let me give you sort of a picture so you
can get an idea of what I'm talking about here. Okay. You want me to share the screen? Am I,
is my screen sharing? I'm sharing. I'm sharing it now. Yeah. All right. You let me know when you
want to show an image because I haven't shown any yet till now. Okay. Good. Let me show you
something of the landscape here. Okay. Let me see what we got here. All right. So look at these
beautiful landscapes. Can you, uh, all right. Excellent. Uh-huh. You see? Yes. This is what
the Black Desert looks like, right? So you have these laddies here. Now, this is the summertime,
all right? So everything's dead. The world is dead. But in ideal times, these laddies can be
quite lush, filled with Irving, water. People are going to be having a good time there. And then
you've got these hills, hill country full of rocks, very, very rugged terrain, beautiful. I mean, for
me, this is paradise. I'm completely in love with this place. But we're talking about when you're
out there, like this last season, it's about, well, 115 Fahrenheit or so, you know, what's that,
like 45 or something? I don't know. But that's just the temperature on your device. Notice all
the rocks are black. So that is, you see, I mean, it's like you're in a sauna. It's a little bit
of a sauna. And then you're doing, you know, pretty good cardio, right? Within those conditions,
it's tremendous. So I'll explain. I'll give you some stories about that. So you're hiking around
here. So we're going, this, this is a relatively easy wedding, but some laddies are filled with
boulders. So the cars can't go in there and you just need to kind of hike in the wadi. Okay. So
we're hiking, we're going, we got to this wadi. It's a beautiful place and we start hiking. And
our goal is to hike about eight miles down the wadi to another point where the cars can come
meet us and get us, right? So they'll go around and meet us at the end of this particular area.
About an eight mile hike, all the while serving. We've got two teams, one on this side, for example,
one on the other side, serving and this kind of, you know, you've got to fan out and make sure you
see everything. And you're looking at these rocks, just to make sure we're on the same page, looking
up for any potential inscription or epigraphic evidence. Absolutely. Wow. This is archaeological
sites. Right. Now, check this out. So we come, so we go, we're walking down, we say, maybe we're
about a mile and a half in and we're, the wadi is very steep here. I mean, you've got like,
maybe it's about maybe 700 feet tall or so, right? So it's quite high and it is pretty steep.
More than a 45 degree angle, pretty steep. And you've got to kind of climb. It almost
becomes rock climbing to get up. But we get up there, right? And just to kind of even
further contextualize that, you should wear gloves. I never wear gloves and it's stupid to
like tear my hands up and you should wear gloves because the rocks, you could cook eight, like
you could, you could fry an egg on these rocks. It's fantastic. I mean, your talk, like I said,
this is paradise. It's amazing. So we get to the top of the wadi. All right. And this is a survey
mission. So we're just surveying. We don't have an archaeologist with us. We reach this place
and we look at it. Whoa, what's going on? Go forward and you have clearly some kind of installation.
But what is it? One area, you have a circle, cleared out circle, perimeter and all of the rocks on
that circle are inscribed, filled with inscriptions. Okay. Then you have a corridor that goes to the
edge of the wadi where you have another stone circle. And then in the, and then another corridor
going south that leads to another stone circle. So you have sort of like an L. All right. These
stone circles with them in the middle, you have inscriptions. So I go to these inscriptions. I
start reading. You have to read on the field because otherwise you don't know what you're
getting. And there are consequences for this. So we start reading them. What's going on? This is
some kind of burial installation, something that we've never seen before. It's for a woman called
Goebb. She's a very important woman, all this kind of business, right? She has about 40 people
coming to mourn her. She, and this installation is called a Theiat. A Theiat? T-H-Y-T. Theiat.
Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. This is what they call it. So now we know the name of the installation,
which is very cool. We know that this installation, it comes from the verb Fawaya,
which means to rest. So this is the rest. Got it. So one of these things must be a grave. All right.
Something's going on here. All right. Something very, very interesting. We document it. We document
all the inscriptions. So who is this woman Goebb? Well, Goebb is described in these inscriptions
with the verb عين راسين. Maybe it's عروس. There are no vowels. We don't know. Now, if you
look in the Arabic dictionaries, that means bride. Okay. That means bride. Fine. Bride. Why not?
She's bride. Is that what it is? Is that really what it means? I have no ideas. The only time the
word has ever occurred in the corpus. Is she a bride? Is she about to get married? Well, I don't
think so. Here, I'll share another photo. Nearby, and this is just again to show you how important
she was. You see this inscription here is very nice. Now, I'm not going to worry so much about
the Greek here. The Greek is very nice, right? Very interesting. And this talks about bilingualism
among these nomads. There's all that business. But this little inscription here is very nice.
It's by a guy called Wa'il. He calls himself Ba'al Goebb. He is the husband of Goebb.
Okay. He's important. So she's so important that this guy's identifying as her husband.
Can you imagine how important she is? Which also tells us that she's not a bride. She's been married.
So what is this word? I have no idea. What does it mean? So and then this was in 2019. COVID
happened. We couldn't come back for a while. Then I got distracted and went to other places to show
this year. We came back this year. I brought an archaeologist with us and we excavated the site.
Now, I can't give away much yet. That's coming later. That's going to be done in publication.
We excavated the site. Huge stuff are coming. Amazing stuff. All right. But excavating the site
didn't tell us what the word Aroos or Aras or Aries, whatever meant. We didn't know what this
word meant. So we're surveying. I'm not an archaeologist. We have the archaeologist working.
At the same time, we're surveying and doing other things. We go to, we reach, we're in another valley.
And one of the things that the local Bedouin love to do is they build way markers,
kind of piles of stones, carriages to mark ways, right? And oftentimes, unfortunately,
what they do is they dismantle older structures. They dismantle ancient things to build these
markers. Okay. All right. So you're going to try to get at them. And sometimes there's very
interesting things in them. So we're at one. And I notice, I look, and I'm looking at it and right
at the base of it sticking out of the dirt and covered with dirt, there's a stone and the very
end of an inscription is parent. And the very end of the inscription says that same word again,
Aros or Aris or whatever it is. It's that same word. It's occurred again for the second time only.
We need that. We need to figure out what this is. So I'll show you that we ended up doing. So of
course, we dismantled this modern way marker, which was a tremendous amount of work to do.
And let me see here. Yeah. And so we dug out. We took it all apart. We dug out the inscriptions.
You see them? Yes. Yeah. And there, yeah, we dug them out. And there is the text here. And this
is a text mourning, not a woman this time, but a man who seemed to have been rather important.
We don't know because they dismantled the original structure. We have no idea what was actually there,
whether it was something like a thea or not. We don't know because they dismantled it to build
this thing. But and he key is this time, Aros or Aris or whatever. So that's very interesting.
And so it's a gender neutral term, or at least it's inflecting like it does in Arabic with vowels,
not with endings. And it seems to be a kind of title, a social title. I wonder if it has to do
with nobility. And then later on over time in Arabic, that title just ends up being bride or
grooms or whatever you like, right? Right. But then it's originally a noble title that we're
looking at the burial of noble, noble individual in this society. I don't know, very interesting.
But that is we can call this to use Macintosh Smith's term. This is a dictionary land, you know,
you know, you want this is how we figure out what things mean, right? And I see the cool inscription
to the right over there. Yeah, yeah, that was also buried there. Yeah, that's just that one is fun.
You got a camel and this big, this is what they call the common script or what have you. But
this is a different one here. So these are two different kind of groups. But this whole place
was filled with inscriptions. We found so many fun stuff here. So many fun things, tremendous,
tremendous adventures. And but but lots of work, you know, these things are, you know,
they these rocks are heavy. Yeah, like they said, I haven't been to the gym in years. So I'm
completely out of shape. So you know, when you're motivated, you've got adrenaline running, you're
excited. So, you know, you start to have the strength you used to have when you did. Yeah.
And you end up doing these things, but you feel it in the morning, but it's a lot of fun. So
it's really good. And that's the quest for even what a single word can mean. It can take years
and expiration just to figure out or just to come closer to figure out what a single word might
in light of this. Absolutely. In light of this. And I want to see some more images if you don't
mind. But like, yeah, I think is I like to jump around and look at other cultures and try to get
an idea that might contextualize or at least give something. And being these are noble people,
as we know, in the ancient, not just near East, but you go to can go to Greece, Macedonian regions,
you could look at this, you know, Egypt, etc. They deify noble people. And I'm wondering if any of
that might be playing a role here in these people in this culture of deifying these noble individuals?
I don't know. I mean, what are your thoughts? Yeah, that's a good question. With our nomads,
I mean, I don't, we don't have any good evidence for that. Yeah, it's an ancestor for any of this.
But the Nabataeans seem to have turned one of their kings into a god. So one of the, yeah,
their kings, Obudah, Obudah, Hellenized Obudahs, he ended up becoming a god. Got it. He was revered
to the point that he became a god, he gets called Obudah, Alaha, Obudah, the god, and what have you.
So it's quite something. So back in bride, though, just because this is your thing, and you're really
trying to point out something powerful about how do we get behind this and figure out what the
language meant to them? What anything meant to you? What anything meant? Right is what it seems to be
understood by people today, or at least based on the definition of Arabic. What are you nudging?
Tor, in your subjective opinion right now, like, what are you thinking it might mean, even if,
you know, we aren't sure? Yeah, I mean, we don't, the problem with these
Safiitic inscriptions is we don't know anything about their, we don't know very much about their
social structure. What's very curious is that the inscriptions give us tribal affiliations.
There's only one title that seems to be, to tell us anything about their social structure. It's a
title Hadae, which refers to a military leader. Okay, that's it. So we really don't know very much
about their internal hierarchy. Surely there was some kind of hierarchy. Surely they were what we
might call Shuyuh, Shai, right? A little tribal lord or king or what have you. There must have been,
you know, maybe his family members were important. If we look at earlier sources, for example, you
know, the Assyrians talk about Arab kings and queens from this area. And so I start to wonder
whether this, I think that this term here might have to do with like a chief, right? A tribal
chief of some sort and what ends up happening. And that's very interesting that you have a female
in this position, right? And she clearly was very important because look, this guy is calling,
is identifying himself as her husband, right? So she's an important person socially. I wonder
if this has to do with some kind, you know, like it's a position of authority, okay, in the tribe.
I think that that's what we're getting at. And you might think of an analogy of how, for example,
you might use the term princess today to talk about a beautiful young woman. You see what I mean?
It's lost its meaning in a literal sense. It doesn't, we don't have, let's say in America,
we don't have princesses, right? That title that is not there anymore. We don't have royalty.
But the word survives to talk about, you know, either a spoiled young girl or a beautiful little
girl or something. You will use it or she's a princess. You see what I mean? Yeah. All that
survived was American English. You would say, oh, princess means sweet little girl. But then you
go and find an ancient text where it's like, hold on, they're using princess in a way that doesn't
really match the meaning we have. Because we don't know the social culture. Yes, precisely,
because when that structure changes, words will survive, but they'll take on different meanings.
Got it. So it seems that we're peering back in a time where the meaning bride actually
or groom or whatever had a different meaning, right? It referred to something in their social
structure that changed over time or they got new terms. And then it just continued only in this
very restricted sense to refer to a special day for a young woman or a young man, which is their
wedding day where everyone gets to be a prince or a princess on their wedding days. You know what
I mean? Yeah. So that's looking at, and that, I mean, it seems like such a small point, right?
But the only way to ever have been aware of any of that is hiking around over here, digging up stuff
and crunching. And you see, this is the whole experience, right? It's amazing. Yeah. I love
this. You're bringing back to life a culture we don't really know much about at all, if anything.
And I want to know more about these things because I love learning about, for me, as you know,
I'm a skeptic. I wear that as a badge of honor. But like my point is, is I think that there's a
whole world, a fascinating world of anthropological research we could do on understanding why
religions are the way they are, why cultures function the way they do, why politics in regions
act the way they do. And I'm a skeptic because I want to push against letting the lens of a
particular tradition help us interpret the rest of the world. Because what I really want to do
is break down all those walls. Do you have any more images you want to show us of your trip that
you'd be like wanting? I can, yeah, there's a, I put, I very quickly before our meeting here put
together some images, some fun stuff. I'll tell you another story that's very fun. This one's
brand new. I put an image, I don't know, this is brand new. I'll bring this up here, right here.
And we'll talk about it. So this is from this last season of field work. Okay. What is this?
Okay. You see? All right. So this is, so this is clearly manmade. Clearly. Somebody went and made
a stone rectangle like this. Very interesting. What is it? I don't know. We didn't have enough
time. We'll see what we do within the future. We documented it and we might go back. There's
something interesting. But if you zoom in, I'm going to zoom in and you're going to see why
this place is even more interesting. You see? Oh, cool is that, huh? That's awesome. Isn't that
amazing? Yeah. Fantastic. So not only is this manmade, but it's an inscribed hole again. Same
language? Oh, it's also aphiric. Yeah. So it's an inscribed hole again. Well, okay. So what's
going on here? Now, we photographed these things. We documented them. There wasn't time to read every
single one. What was very clear is that this is some kind of morning complex. Some of you died.
They're remembering him. They all set up these beautiful stones, wrote on them, remembering
him. Tremendous. I have a 14 hour flight back, huh? So what do I do? I'm just reading everything
that we've documented in the field. All right. One of the stones over here, secondary inscription,
somebody came and wrote very thin, lightly inscribed, a tremendous inscription. And so I'll
set it up this way. In recent times, there's been a lot of discussion about Allah before Islam,
right? The God Allah, who is the, of course, the name of God in Islam. You know, what is the
pre-Islamic context? Because Allah was worshipped in pre-Islamic times. But you know, who was he?
We don't have any kind of liturgical texts associated with him. We have some very basic
prayers. So for example, we have a Qari'at-ul-Fawad inscription, a gravestone where some guy wants
to protect the grave of his brother. So he invokes Kahal, Allah, and Athar-e-Sharek, these three gods,
Allah being one of them, to, you know, protect the grave. Fine. But that doesn't really tell us
anything about this, this deity. We don't know anything. Okay, he's part of a triad. That's what,
you know, from an Islamic perspective, they would say that shirk, fine, association, but that's not
new. But we know nothing about him. Fine. He had some, some interesting prayers to Allah, one that's
very, very interesting. And now you'll see where we're going with this. This prayer was by a man who
had just been appointed a military commander. And so what does he do? Aslayah. He makes a
offering. And you're like, whoa, that's nice. That's interesting to talk about a living God.
And now we're a little bit in business that he will lead with greatness. Okay, fine. But you know,
that's just a glimpse. Allah occurs in Safiyidic at the time that I wrote my book 41 times.
All right, we don't know anything about him. Now I have some ideas of it's Allah is clearly
an epithet, meaning it's not the proper name of a God. It literally means it's literally means the
God. Okay, so it's an epithet like the great God. The fact that it has the al definite article tells
us that the Safiyidic guys, the guys out here in the desert, that they took this God from their
neighbors because they like to use the definite article ha, they don't use al, but the Nabateans
use al. So it's very likely that they took this God from the Nabateans. They brought him over.
Okay, fine. But who is he? What do we know? So we found an inscription here and I have a
preliminary, a preliminary study of I found this on the on the airplane. I'm sitting there,
you know, working through this stuff 14 hours and I come across this one and you know, your
eyes go big and you're like, Oh my God, what am I reading? This is this is incredible. So the
inscription just to put it, I won't show it because I need to publish it soon. But the
inscription begins with a guy lamenting the widespread basically afflictions were all over
the place. The land had been afflicted. All right, bad. So he calls out to Allah. Oh Allah,
Nur, the stone light, Nur, all right, the stone light, it's a really weird prayer. Usually when
the Safiyidic guys ask for, ask for things, they're practical things, you know, spoil,
revenge, rain, but light, light is really something intangible. I mean, what is Nur?
And Nur, which is very interesting is light that's associated with the moon. Okay,
so one of the epithets of the moon in Safiyidic is Na'ir, which is the illuminated one, but using
the same word, Nur, right? Even in the Quran, you have to pick up on this. God creates, he makes
the sun, he makes the sun, the sun, the moon, Nur, right? So it's connected with the Nur. But
of course, also in the Quran, Allah, God is Nur is the Nur of the heavens and the earth. Okay,
which is very interesting. So what you have in this inscription already is sort of an antecedent
of Quranic diction, where Nur light, a very abstract thing to be asking for, is associated with
Allah, but it even gets better. Our man then says that he made a sacrifice, some kind of sacrifice,
Bi bin Yeti, or Bi bin Yeto in Safiyidic, in his temple, binyah, in his temple, and binyah,
this word here is actually one of the words used to describe the Kaaba. Now that's not saying this
man went to Mecca. No, no, no, no. What we're saying is that there is a complex of vocabulary here
associated with this deity. And one of it is the temple associated with this deity is called the
binyat, which is very important. Otherwise in Safiyidic and North Arabian, temples are usually
called bait. Okay, fine. This one is the binyat. So he does that. And then he makes his request.
He asks Allah and may he bestow upon him. Alright, a portion. Fine. But what is the
epithet of Allah in this final clause? The epithet of Allah in this final clause is the one who
has created. And it's the same verb in the Quran used for creation, which is an Arabic
icy gloss. Okay. And what is the basic meaning of this verb? It means to split. So we have again
now in a pre-Islamic Arabian context, we can see that the creation of the universe belongs to this
basic splitting action that we find in all of the other ancient Near Eastern traditions. Exactly.
Isn't that amazing? Yeah, you got this. And what does that tell us, man? This is what's so important.
When we encounter these things in the Quran in the seventh century, we say, huh, is this the impact
of the Hebrew Bible or Jewish liturgy on the Quran? Is that the impact of, let's say, the
Arabians interacting and taking over from those traditions? And that's why Allah's described
in such a way because he's the monotheistic God. So he's described in such a way there. But then
having it attested 600 years before the Quran in a completely pagan context, at least our
meeting guys are pagans, man. They are worshiping 50, 60 gods. And that's the ones we know about.
And they have no problem worshiping Allah beside other gods. They do it all the time.
But in this completely pagan context, we see the same package of vocabulary and concepts
that appear in the Quran. So this precludes direct borrowing, but rather speaks to what?
It speaks to a shared Near Eastern mythological heritage where the cosmos is created through
the act of splitting, separating, right? Yep. This is it. And that's the verb chalaqa there
already in Safiyrik, right? Arabic icing gloss associate Allah at his temple, asking him for
it all comes together. And it's all, you know, we're saying six, 700 years before the Quran.
If I may, can I ask some questions and probe here a little? As many questions as you like,
my friend. Goodness, this is amazing. I love this. This is what I live for today. I always
describe this and this may not work. This may not be up your alley, but I did a video recently
highlighting the work of Francesca Stavrakapulu, who wrote a book called God and Anatomy. I have
right here. And in this book, she blows my mind with how anthropomorphic the deity of the Hebrew
Bible is and pretty much showing God has a body, but not just that. It's a bit scandalous because
some of the stuff that God is behaving and doing is what passion, passionate humans do
from sex and children and war and hate and all this stuff, right? Well, I describe it as like
seeing the magic trick after believing that David Blaine had real magical powers and then
someone's whispering in the auditorium, do you want to see how the trick is done? And I'm like,
it's not a trick. It's real. And then I find out they show me how the trick is done and it's very
manmade. I'm like, whoa, people would think, oh, therefore you don't want to look into it anymore
because you now know that the magic isn't real. Not true. For me, I now want to know more. I need
to have a deeper understanding because now I need to know. And I'm looking at this and here's some
of my questions. You have a rectangular kind of squarish kind of structure here. I'm curious to
know if you think this is a prototype of some Kava type indication, total guesswork. And we're
in speculation land here. I'm just having fun with you. So please. And the audience. So you
don't know. Is this your century? Oh, please comment on that. Very good. No, I would say that
I mean, there's a lot written. So the, the Kava that we see today is not the construction that
was there during the ministry of Muhammad. Okay. So there we, yeah, we had more of a sort of
tabernacle like construction and it later becomes this sort of cube, but more of a tabernacle
kind of tent like thing. So similar to our sitter that we talked about earlier, right?
This kind of ritual tent. Okay. So that's what we're dealing with with the kind of foundation.
Now, in that light, was there ever anything inside of this that people construct something
inside of this? I have no idea. I have no idea. What I will say is that this construction here,
yeah, seems to have been produced as a way of commemorating a slain individual. Okay.
So it's a way of commemorating someone who had died. I can't remember his name, but it's on one
of those rocks. They're not those inscriptions that commemorate the dead or they all say the same
thing. So they're not very interesting. They'll stand out. So the question is, what brought this
man here who wrote the Allah inscription? So this must have been some kind of ritual site,
because something brought him here and he commemorated all of this ritual activity here.
Okay. There's so much archaeology to be done. Right. And that we might get to something we might
not. I mean, it's very, very often the case that, especially in these nomadic environments,
you know, traditional archaeology does not, what you expect to find through traditional
archaeological work is not produced here. Like there's barely any pottery. Right. So rare to
find any potter. No coins. You're not dealing with constructions really. And if you look at
this whole area, what's fascinating about it, there's no fire pits. There's no evidence that
people would, you know, actually look fires here or anything. There's nothing datable in that sense.
So it's very, very curious, right? We are just starting to know about the, the ritual world of
these guys to archaeology. Can we date this structure and the epigraphic evidence?
Roughly, paleographically, only very roughly, I don't gamble. I'm not a gambling man. If I were
to gamble, if I were, I would say 2000 years turn of the era, you know, first century,
first century BC, the first century AD. Got it. Okay. Another question I have, and this one's
more in the avenue, I think the direction you were going at, because many people polemically
online, right? I've engaged and encountered and all that. And I try not to get my hands dirty,
but I live and I'm human. Give me a break. Okay. Sometimes I got to put the gloves on and get in
the ring a little. And, but you'll notice a lot of the polemicists from apologist on Christian
side. So let's just say against Islam, talk about how they just ripped off the Jews and
ripped off the Christians. And I'm not saying there isn't some influence there, but the way
they paint that narrative. What I find fascinating about what you just discussed is when I look back
before Judaism, and I'm looking at Yonatan Adler, I'm looking at the archaeological,
epigraphic evidence of when the practice of the religion we call Judaism, meaning we're talking
about elephantine Judeans. They did not practice Judaism. They had polytheistic, clearly other
gods along with El. Then you have other ones in the North. You have those in the Persian Empire,
you know, all sorts of different kinds of versions of Judeans worshiping these gods.
They're polytheists. They have various gods. They had these kind of near Eastern Genesis
accounts of splitting and creation ideas that are found way before these religions existed.
I'm curious to know if these cultures you're just discovering and trying to figure out what
they meant and what they did. If there's just this long standard all the way back to Garrett,
let's just say, like you're talking Phoenicians and Canaanites. This stuff's still alive in some
way. The traditions evolve, of course, but they're still alive. And we have this parallel kind of
concept. It's not necessarily having to come through Christianity directly, not necessarily
having to come through Judaism directly. There's a still existing ancient near Eastern religious
culture, if you will, that this is what we're looking at. It's like we have this fossil that
existed through time without necessarily going the route of, hi, I'm practicing Judaism or hi,
I'm practicing Christianity. It's just this fossil that existed, maybe going down from that period.
Does that make any sense what I'm trying to do here?
I mean, I would say, I think it makes tons of sense. But I think, obviously,
everyone borrows from each other. I was at a conference more than a month ago, and I heard
this lecture on the development about the Arabic grammatical tradition and its relationship with
the Greek grammatical tradition and the Indian grammatical tradition from a fantastic scholar
called Maria Mavroudi. And I asked a naive question because she was showing how she was
showing cases where Greek grammatical tradition was clearly or she made a very compelling case that,
you know, it was influencing the Arabic grammatical tradition. And so I asked her, okay, so what was
the original Arabic grammatical tradition though, if we peel away this kind of Greek influences
Indian, what do we what do we left in? And she told me and she's right. And I like this response.
And we have to use this when we think about our material too. She says, there is no such thing
as an original anything. Everything is the end result of contact and influence, right? There is
no pure state for any idea. And it's all contact. It's all from the very beginning contact. There's
I love this. It's it's and she's right. And I thought about it. I was like, yeah, I was I
worded it wrong. What I was after is I wanted to know what, let's say, in the sixth century,
before, you know, the rise of the Medinan state, the Arabs had scribes and they had traditions. I
wanted to know how they were talking about grammar then. But that's a chronological question. I
use the word originality correctly, because it's not about being original, being pure,
uninfluenced by outside. No, no, no, everything is a result of humans interacting with each
other. You see from the from day one, right? There's never there's no pure culture, especially
the Near East. Okay, maybe someone's gonna make a case. Well, what about the Sentinelese island
or whatever? I don't know. Yeah, let's talk about the Near East, right? There's there's no,
these are constantly interacting with each other. There's no originality here, right? But what we
can say, and I think this is what's very nice about this inscription, is that the mythological
complex of the Creator God splitting through an act of splitting, creating the universe,
and that Creator God being light and bestowing lights and all this business, that's very nice.
Using the same vocabulary that we get later in the Quran, that precludes a late pre Islamic
synthesis. That precludes the idea that this kind of diction and this and even this concept
emerged from a late interaction between Arabian followers of traditional Arabian religion
and Judaism, or Northwestern Semitic mythological traditions. You see, in fact, it suggests
that even in much more distant times, more ancient times, the Arabs had a cosmology
that was related to biblical cosmology in Northwestern and Northwest Semitic or just
general fertile, fertile, crescent cosmologies. If I may chew this up and spit it back to you,
correct me if I'm understanding you properly, because I think my viewers
live vicariously through these kind of engagements and it helps to solidify. Being that we're just
putting this first century BCE to first century AD, it's already showing a cosmology that is
uniquely ancient near Eastern with the splitting ideas and concepts from the region, which means
this culture, which exists 600 years, let's just say roughly before the rise of Islam,
there's already communication to put it simply among these mythos, these origin stories, and
therefore we should not necessarily, you can do with it as you will, but we should necessarily
get to the sixth century, seventh century really, but sixth turn of the seventh, where the rise of
Islam comes in and go, there was no contact, there was no communication whatsoever, like no,
it's probably, as far as we can tell, always been communication going on amongst these papers.
Absolutely, and they are, I mean, I think it's useless to speak about things in terms of genetic
inheritance, but what you have is this broader complex of ancient Near Eastern mythology that's
sort of manifesting itself in different, let's say, societies, so the Arabians had their own take
on it, right, but it's ultimately the same package of ideas. We know that they worship Baal, right,
Baal, you know, he comes with his package of mythology, there's a beautiful poem, and now
this one's very ancient, I don't know how we're going to date it, but it's a poem in Safiyat,
I published it in 2015, that, and you'll recognize it immediately, and this should come as no surprise.
So you'll notice there's a nice end rhyme with Aam, three-line short poem, I'm going to just
translate it for you, the way that I understood it, and you will, you will get it.
It's held a feast, the scorner eats, a nice chiasm, established as the alternation of
his nights and days, and low, Baal sleeps, indeed he sleeps, but he is not dead. Wow,
what is that? Oh my gosh, dude, this makes me think of... That's just the summary of the Baal
cycle. Yeah, I was going to say, because in that, from what I understand in the Baal cycle here,
Baal dies, but comes back, and I'm not sure if this particular one is trying to describe that
Baal will come back, because he's only asleep. Beautiful here is the verbs that are used.
So the first verb used, Baal yabit, Baal, which is a kind of sleep, but it means to spend the night.
Okay, so he spends it, so he sleeps in that sense, wama naam, but he did not naam, naam is a
slump, like a deep slumber, which can be used as a metaphor for death, but it still means sleep,
so there are two different kinds of sleeps. So he sleeps temporarily, but not eternally. Got it.
Now, what's wonderful is you get this kind of double sense of sleep, you find it in the Bible,
where God is described as not slumbering or, you know, sleeping or slumbering, what have,
like it doesn't overtake him, right? Two types of sleep, even in the Qur'an. In fact, in the Qur'an
is nice, because you end up with the same package of vocabulary. So, Sina, which is a kind of sleep,
does not overtake him, and neither does naam. Now, if we read that naam in light of the Baal cycle,
we see that's death. Got it. Right, so it's the temporary sleep. So he's unlike Baal, he doesn't,
he doesn't disappear for a little bit and come back. He's always there, right? Got it. Temporary
sleep doesn't take him, and the eternal sleep doesn't take him. Whereas Baal, he succumbs
to the temporary sleep, but he does not sleep forever. He's going to come back. You see? Now,
that again, another, so you can draw that line and you see how we end up. So we see that, you know,
we have this package of Near Eastern mythology, which is alive in Arabia, and then we hear its
echoes in the Qur'an, you know? We hear its echoes in the Qur'an. What do we make of those?
Well, this material keeps pushing back, keeps suggesting that there's indeed continuity,
yes, right? That makes its way into the Qur'an, right? There's, it's not just because here's what
we lack. And this is why I think what we're doing is so important. This is what we lack. We have all
of this material folklore, what have you, about pre-Islamic Arabian religion from the Islamic
period. But we have no myths, we have no cosmology, we have no stories, we have nothing. We just have
names of gods and people like doing rituals directed towards these fake gods, like pouring
milk and sacrificing and singing and what have you. But we don't know what these gods actually did.
We have no pantheon. We don't know their role in the cosmos. We don't know any of their myths.
You see what I mean? Yeah. So this material now is actually bringing that world, that religious
world, that supernatural world to life. I love that. When we do that, when we do that, now we start
to see the connections. Now we have another reference, which isn't simply the Qur'an is taking
from the Bible. Right. Exactly. The Qur'an, I mean, there are clear cases where the Qur'an is
interacting with the Bible and sure, but there are other cases like God's splitting the world
and splitting the universe that have ancient antecedents in traditional Arabian religion.
And the fact that it's using the same verb, this unique verb, chalakha. So philologically you
can philologically it works up very nicely. Yeah. This is the beginning. All right. This is the
beginning. I mean, there's, I love this. There's so much to do. All right. There's so much to do.
I have, I know I have more material than I will, I won't live long enough to treat all the material
I have. Like it's just not, there's just too much. And there's going to be more and more and more.
And that's the true of everyone. So we're talking about, you know, this is a generational project.
I have two questions pertaining to this because, and then we should do this again,
because I love learning this stuff from you and diving into this with you. There's so much
insight and things to consider. What is hypothetical and it's totally speculative and it's kind of
fun for me to like use an analogy of something I know to this hypothetical situation with where
we're trying to like piece together detectively what's happening. And the other one is pertaining to
from this epigraphic and archaeological evidence, which we would put around the first century BCE
the first century AD, you know, what about right up to, let's say from that period up to the rise
of Islam? What evidence do we have in that span? Cause you're talking 600 years. You see what I'm
saying? So yes. And very different places and all that business. So let's start with that one into
my hypothetical next, if that's cool. Okay. So what has distracted me from Jordan and from
South Yiddish over the last couple of years have been my work in Saudi Arabia. And if you give me
my screen back, I'll show you some photographs. Absolutely. This is tons of fun. Yeah. So this
is a completely different landscape. So this is West Arabia. You see how different it looks?
Yes. This is not black rock. It's it's totally different. Totally different environment. This
is the hijaz. All right. So this is where the drama of Islamic origins plays out. All right.
This is West Arabia. This area here, we're in the Northern hijaz. This is an area called Tabuk,
near Tabuk, right? It's one of the northernmost settlements of what we consider the hijaz.
Very important place. This place is very interesting. And it's different from
Safiyedic guides in Jordan, thousands upon thousands of inscriptions here. Okay. But we get here
a lot of inscriptions that are going to be in. They also occur in Jordan. We'll talk about that too
when you get inscriptions of what we call the Paleo Arabic script. So the Paleo Arabic,
all the Safiyedic stuff, that is, let's say, a dead end. Those inscriptions, that writing system
there goes extinct. It does not continue on to be Arabic as we see it today. We're not sure when it
went extinct, but it went extinct before. Sometime before the fifth century, let's say. By the time
the Muslim philologists are active, this stuff is long gone. Okay. So it's long gone. I mean,
I would say it's extinct by maybe the fifth century, but you know, you might have stragglers. Who knows?
This is the Hijaz. This area, you have what you call Paleo Arabic. Now, Paleo Arabic is the latest
stage of the Nabatean script. It's an Aramaic based script used to begins in the Nabatean kingdom,
which spanned at its greatest extent from Damascus to Agra and Taman in Northern Arabia.
So it's a very nice, very important place, the kingdom. The Nabatean script over time develops
as all things do and to, by the time you get to the sixth century, the early sixth century,
late fifth century, the letter shapes of this Nabatean script have evolved to a point where
they are recognizably Arabic. They are basically the Arabic script. Okay. That we know that we
use today. They add a descendant of which we use today. Now, these Paleo Arabic inscriptions, which
come from the sixth century, also early seventh century, okay, are also very important because
they are a window, a very, very small, blurry window into the immediate environment out of which
Islam emerged. Okay. Immediately. Safi'idic guys are fun, but they're far away and a long time ago.
A long time ago in a desert far, far away. That's the way a Meccan would understand the Safi'idic
guys. All right. Whereas this stuff here is directly relevant. All right. And these texts
are wonderful because we surveyed around, I'll take you, we visited a text. So here's a picture
of us documenting a nice Paleo Arabic text. This comes from west of Tabuk. This inscription here
is very, very nice. And I'll give you sort of an example into what we're dealing with. Well,
we'll zoom in a little bit. Okay. So this is it. Are those vandalizing marks? Yeah. Yeah. These
riffraff, they come by with spray paint cans. And for some reason, do this kind of stuff.
In the world. It's ridiculous. Yeah. I don't know why I could do this. I, you know, it's,
here's the thing one has to keep in mind that this is something that we should appreciate.
If you look beyond the spray paint here, you look at the panel, you have dozens and dozens of
inscriptions. You see, and these inscriptions span a thousand years. Right. Okay. And if you
pay attention, you'll notice that over a thousand years, everyone who came to leave an inscription
on this rock, what did they do? They carefully avoided other people's inscriptions. They did
not vandalize. You see, they very carefully wrote around, beside and what have you. Okay.
They didn't damage other people's stuff. But here in the 20 and 21st century, vandalism.
Crazy. That's crazy. Huh? This is, this is incredible. Right. So for a thousand years
more, 2000 years, even if we consider up to today, nobody did this. People just left it alone. Why,
why damage? What are you going to do? You need, you know, education, spray paint. It's ridiculous.
And yeah. So, you know, well, anyway, let's get to, let's get to the fun.
Sorry. This is a paleo Arabic inscription. You see it? Yes. Very different. That's off
now. The inscription says, Bismiqa Allahumma in your name. Oh, Allah. Oh, God.
The word for Lord being used to his. Okay. Which, you know, the calls sort of
Hebrew Aramaic liturgy. All right. This inscription here was carved sometime in the sixth century.
Paleographically, some people tried to identify the author. There was a guy known from Islamic
literary sources called Ab Shams, son of Al-Mu'ira, who was a Qura shayt, someone from Mecca. So we
might have been on a trip here and left this. It's a complex argument. There's a lot of weight to that,
but we'll, we'll leave that aside. That's not of interest, except for those concerned with
kind of the minutiae of, of Arabic pathography and paleography. But anyway, that doesn't matter.
What we have here is a sixth century inscription. And we see that it sounds nothing like the old
traditional Arabian pagan inscriptions. This is an inscription of monotheistic devotion.
Right. He is seeking, yes, that's fair. Oh, he is seeking the forgiveness of his Lord. Right. Now,
I have, we've got, there's some bad guys. And so for example, in South Arabia, you'll get the
naughty guys who go to the temple and can't control themselves and end up having sex with
women at the temple or, or doing this kind of, and then they get caught and they have to, well,
they sinned, right? You can't do that. Right. So they apologize and they have to pay a fine. Got it.
This kind of forgiveness here is a little bit more intangible, isn't it? This is a moral offense
somehow. This person is a, he doesn't tell us what he's done. Sorry, not a moral offense. This is
not a moral offense. This is, he doesn't tell us what he's done, but you get the impression that he
is a sinner. Yeah, exactly. He is just a sinner. And as a sinner, he's not seeking his forgiveness
because he did something bad, but his state as a human, he's fallen, he's a sinner, and he needs
God's forgiveness. Right. The, the tone of the material is very different. Right. Right. Now,
we're not dealing with traditional Arabian religion as we encounter it in Safiyyidic.
This is a whole new world. All right. This is a whole new world. These inscriptions show us that
Safiyyidic guys with all of their wonderful gods and paganism and all that business,
they worked in a kind of time capsule that just continued uninterrupted and uninfluenced until
the rise of Islam. No Arabia had transformed and you start to have all of this permutation of the
imperial monotheistic ideologies. So that here you have a man who has a pagan name, Abshams,
a pagan name. I mean, it's a, his name means the worshiper of the sun. Okay. Right. But whatever.
I mean, it doesn't mean he's a pagan if he has a name. Of course. That's like saying a Theophoric
name proves that someone is something, but they're not necessarily. Yes, precisely. So it's just,
it's a curiosity. It's fun. Anyway, so that's what he does there. Isn't that incredible? Right.
That's amazing. Yeah. So this is very, very interesting. Now, one of the big problems in our
field, you can leave my open because I'll open up another picture. One of the big problems,
historical problems that really played Islamic origins for a long time is that, well, no one
can seem to find Mecca anywhere. It's not, it's not mentioned in any texts. It's not on any ancient
maps. Right. So this is, there's a whole, you know, the whole discourse about this. Oh yeah.
And it's a legitimate, I mean, it's a legitimate problem if we want to maintain that Mecca was
what later sources purported to be, which is sort of the most important site in Arabia and the center
of pilgrimage for all the tribes and all this business. It is a bit weird that no one seems
to mention. Yeah, it's strange, especially because in these late South Arabian inscriptions,
late Samyek inscriptions, I mean, we get a very nice geography of Arabia, right? They're going
all the way up to Iraq. Right. So they've got, and then you've got, of course, the Roman geographers
and all that business. So it's absence. It's not, it's not the absence of evidence. It's absence
is evidence. Okay. And that is the, the tricky thing. So there's a problem there. No one's going
to cover that up, but it's even bigger problem for me, for the Imperial Umayyad to just make up a
place. Right. That's also a problem. So we have two problems here. Like this, the solution is that
they just made up Mecca randomly. Right. And that's problematic too. Yeah, there's so many things.
Yeah. Yeah. That's problematic. You don't, you don't actually solve one problem by coming up with
another problematic thing in the same way. Okay. So we are, we're at it. We're at a, it's a bit tricky
what we're dealing with here. So in 2021 and 22, I explored as much as I could in just these two
seasons with my dear friend, brother, Haytham Sittli, a tremendous man. We surveyed in this area.
Right. Our quest was to figure out what's going on. You know, is there anyone here? So we surveyed
around Mecca. People say there's no inscriptions from Mecca proper. Well, yes, because it's a city,
it's been expanded, concreted. There's, you're not going to get any inscriptions from there. Right.
It's done. Right. If there were any outcrops there in the past, they've been flattened.
It's just done. Okay. So stop making that a point saying we don't have a description from
the city of Mecca. It's not going to happen. Or, or the conspiracy theorists going,
they laid it down to waste and built the city on top of it to cover up the possible path.
I mean, there's always. Yeah. Yeah. No one is, no one is thinking in that way. It's just that
in that period, the concept of salvage archeology just wasn't, wasn't in vogue. I mean, people,
they weren't thinking in terms of salvage archeology, right, which was what people would do now.
Anyway, but the areas around Mecca, okay, that'll survive. And so we surveyed the rocky outcrops
around Mecca and so forth. And, and indeed, you know, there are inscriptions there. There are
Thamudic inscriptions, which take us back very far. So you can say people are hanging around there.
It's not, I mean, it's not Mars. All right. There are humans there hanging around to what degree,
whatever, I don't know, but there are people hanging around. They produce these inscriptions.
We have them. That's interesting. But our, the real thing was to see, well, are there
Paleo Arabic inscriptions there? Are there inscriptions in the Arabic script? Because
it's been problem-tized. Why are all our inscriptions in the Arabic script from the north?
And there's nothing from around Mecca or what have you. And so when we were serving there in 2021,
you know, we did a lot. And in the morning, Haytham and I are sitting and we're having breakfast
in the hotel. It's a bit more civilized to survey here in this area that we were in Caiyaf,
which is the city next door to Mecca. We're not on the desert, all dirtied up, right? We have a
nice hotel. We drive out, but it's a different environment. It's not Harrah. Anyway. And so
we're like, you know, we're doing our research as random research. And we knew there's this place.
So we have older texts talking about different places, but there was no GIS. There's no coordinates.
So you have no idea where these places are. There was one place called Ria Zalala that nobody
known in the locals knew where it was anymore. It's like mentioned in the, in older sources,
but no modern locals knew where it was. We were watching YouTube videos about locals around
fire. And they went to a place where they said they found some locals had gathered around a boulder
on the side of a highway where they had said they had found a portrait of one of Abraha soldiers.
Abraha was a, was the king of Yemen, actually my vice-chair, what have you, king of Yemen,
who according to Islamic tradition, tried to conquer Mecca and he marched an army there.
And then God destroyed the whole army with the flock of birds that were throwing clays, hot clay
he had clay. So destroyed them and killed him. Right. That's the story. And these guys had come
to this rock and there was a seated man. Okay. This is great. This is great. There's a seated man
on the rock and like, this is one of Abraha soldiers, right? Evidence that you come out.
It's like, it's fantastic. But where is this place? Do we see the YouTube video? Like, where is this
place? So we knew the basic highway where it was. And so we tried to figure it out. So what do we do?
We do the thing that, that, you know, the guy on the internet who, who says, you send me a picture
of you and I can figure out where in the world you are. Right? We went, we were looking at, okay,
so where we water tower, for example, some electrical poles in this kind of way. The curve
looks like this. And we went on Google maps and everything we just from the image on YouTube.
And we went there. We found it. And this is what we found here. I opened it up. We found the image
here. And the week, right. So here it is. Now it's hard to see because middle of the day,
but you can see here's the seated man. Here's his foot. Here's his arm. Here's his scepter. Here
you see it? Yes. And this is his head. There's his head. You see his head. He's got this kind of
hat on his head. He's seated here. You can't see it very well because of the light. But I think
when I do this, you can, you can see what I'm getting to, right? Yes. Yes. And then here, here
this is what attracted me to it because this is a Thamurik D inscription, which says hafara
aw alak. Fine, whatever. This guy called aw alak bin hamat. Fine. So this guy here carved.
It's a meaningless inscription, but what was so interesting to me and the reason why I wanted
to come visit this is that in our surveys, we found a couple of other inscriptions by this guy,
aw alak. So I thought, how cool would be if we can like reconstruct this route, right?
Now that's, we went there, but then when we got there, dude, oh man, look at the rock. You see
what's there? You see that? Yeah. Paleo Arabic. Paleo Arabic. Our last day, Paleo Arabic. This
was the first, we can be sure about it, Paleo Arabic inscription from the broader region of Mecca.
And it says, barakum rabbuna. May our Lord using Rabb again bless you. So we can't say there's no
evidence of them being here in this period with this, using similar linguistics to what you're
saying is found in the north with Allah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm saying this is probably
Allah that this guy is talking about because, well, I'm going to prove to you. I'm going to
prove to you. Okay. Okay. All right. Very nice. Isn't that amazing? Yes, that is. So what's so
involved with this? And, and you know, you know, all of this, it doesn't make it into the publications,
but there are, there are ventures behind these discoveries. Yeah, this is amazing. Right? There
are stories, right? And they're, and they're tremendous. And they're so wonderful to kind of
talk about informally like this. Of course, you don't put them in the publication, but you get the
idea. There, there are stories behind these. And sometimes it's accidental. And I mean, oh god,
we can go on and on about accidental discoveries and how amazing they've been. Right. Now, life,
this is the city next door to Mecca. Okay. The town next door. Now, 2022, we go back to five.
We document something we just published. Check this out, man. I took a picture of me
standing next to it. So you get a scale. Yeah. There are two inscriptions. This one up here.
This is Paleo Arabic front five. This says Bismiqa Rabbana in your name. Our Lord,
I am Hamdallah bin Abd Amr. I am Hamdallah, I am Hamdallah bin Abd Amr. I urge you to be
pious towards Allah, God. So we see Allah and Rabia. That's the same character. Yeah. Okay.
And it's a monotheistic thing. Again, talking about piety, right? Towards God. I mean,
these are formulating concepts and all of this, but you do not encounter this traditional
Arabian religion. These were not concepts there. This here is a religious tradition
that has been profoundly influenced by the imperial monotheistic ideologies all the way
around. Okay. Wow. Now, what's fascinating about this Haitham, and Haitham says that I
published this recently, is that this individual here is likely, and we only deal in likelihoods,
but he is likely to be someone who ends up being a companion of Muhammad. But Muhammad changed his
name because he has a pagan name, Abd Amr. So he changed it to Abi Amr. But the fact that this
guy is using his old name and he's introducing with an, with an invocation that's unknown in the
Islamic tradition, Bismikarabana, it's likely that this guy carved the inscription before he became
a follower of Muhammad. Hold on. Oh my God. Isn't that crazy? Yes. Isn't that crazy? So, so this is
his pre, let's say he's a, this would be an expression of his religious identity before he
became a Muslim, but we can see how close it already is to Islam. Yes. I agree. We're dealing with
just, you know, very subtle transformations in phraseology and, and then his friend down here
says the same thing, Bismikarabana, I am Abd Al-Uzza, pagan name is worshiper of Al-Uzza,
the son of Sofyan, I urge you to be pious towards God. Also, very unlikely to be a Muslim. Okay.
Right. With these names. And we can see this because look, look at this guy, Abdul Uzza, right?
That's his name is a pagan name. We can see some pious person came by later and tried to hammer
out his pagan name. You see that? Uh-huh. Another evidence, this is pre-Islamic man.
Somebody tried to hammer it out. This, it's fair to speculate that this could be early 600,
like maybe 610s or 6605. Yeah. This guy, I don't know, again, I come back to it,
we don't confuse the part for the whole because the tradition remembers the names of individuals
does not mean associated stories are historical. Got it. But if we want to, you know, give the
benefit of the doubt and just treat it all historically, fine. According to tradition,
this man died in three AH, three Hijrah, three years after the migration of the Prophet Muhammad
in his community to Medina during the battle of Uhud against the Meccans. So he was, he was slain
in that battle. So this inscription must predate that. Okay. And then yeah, we're talking early
600s. Yeah. Early 600s. Tremendous. So that's, I mean, again, tip of the iceberg. All right.
This is a generational project. It's not, we're not going to cover it all now. I remember, I was,
I was once interacting with somebody who, this was before we even did any of this kind of work,
when I, I said something along the lines of, you know, we just don't know yet about what's in the
Hijaz and the person in the audience who was a scholar basically told me, but, but it's been
surveyed. We know. And this must have been in 2018, maybe, or something like that. This is
something someone says when they've never actually been out in this world. I mean, the landscapes
are so vast, even in the Harrah, right? In Jordan, which is much smaller than the Hijaz.
Oh, there's, we've, most of it is still unexplored. Most of it is unexplored. Hijaz, most of it's
unexplored. Now there are trends and the trends are important. You know, we see a monotheistic
trend as we keep finding, we keep finding things that look the same and the same, right? So there
are trends. We might find a text one day, even some mountain, some guy in the seventh century
still worshiping Dol Khalasa or something. I don't know. It doesn't make a difference,
but there's certainly a trend here. And that's what matters. But no, no, it has not been explored.
There is going to be, I mean, we're going to continue making discoveries for generations,
right? There's so much work to do. And so, you know, this is, we, we're not going to have the
definitive work on this now at all, right? And the archeology and everything. So we are not going
to solve Islamic origins and pre-Islamic Arabia in our generation. I mean, I'm sorry to say this,
everyone is busy in the field. We are making incremental advancements, but we are not going
to have the answers. The answers are not complicated. Yeah. Yeah. If I were to, like, just throw my
little speculation here, right? Only why this is such a problem that with me just thinking about it,
and I'm far from anything in the field, like I don't even, I'm just a student listening to you,
right? Is that even with that one inscription alone, trying to like act like I've got to paint
the narrative of what's taking place here, it's a huge red flag that they're already monotheists
before they become Muslim, which means there's already stuff going on that is monotheistic
in this region of a belief in Allah as the single one Lord, the one God that, you know,
deserves your pious adoration and worship and all. And forgiveness, huh? That forgiveness is so
important. Right. Yeah. That's a huge red flag to me that, you know, how far back does that
go is a big question I have. Like how far back can we say that adoration of the one God Allah
is in this region? I don't know. And maybe it's this unique, like kind of like Jesus, right?
Comes on the scene. He's a Jew. He's practicing Judaism. Well, people were already practicing
Judaism when Jesus comes along. But you get this radical reinterpretation from this guy, Paul,
at least it seems that he's being interpreted this way, where he's saying it's not a Jew who's one
outwardly. It's inward. And he starts to do something unique with the already existing religion.
That seems to be if I'm using kind of heuristic or an analogous example, Muhammad's doing something
to the already existing monotheism in this area under this deity. And of course, stories about
the dark pagan times before, you know, Islam, that we find that everywhere. Like most of religions
that are kind of breaking away from the standard, whatever might be the thing at the time in that
particular region of the particular time, tell stories that indicate this. You know what I mean?
Absolutely. I want to know what people were doing before based on what they've left us. And
that's the only way sorting that out is really the only way of figuring out what comes next.
Because see so much of our historiography and ideas about the transformation that happened
with the emergence of Islam come are based on images of pre-Islam. Well, that emerge in the
Islamic period under, you know, very specific ideological conditions under, and oftentimes
in the context of interfaith, you know, contests. And so, so let's just figure out what these guys
were doing first. Let's figure them out. We've got a lot of work to do, like Lisa Fiedigay continue
to surprise us all the time. We've got a lot to discover. Let's figure them out. And then we can,
you know, then the time for big theories comes later. And that's what I think a lot of it's
frustrated, you know, because we want, I have this book contract that I'm supposed to write the
definitive history of Arabic, okay, and sign this contract in 2019 or 2018 or something like that.
I mean, I'm not even close to being done with it. I need to do it. But the thing that keeps me back
thing that is that I'm not, we're not ready. There's too much more to discover. And I don't
want to write a book that's going to be 500 pages that is also outdated the minute I publish it.
You see what I mean? Yes. So I keep, I mean, every time I go to the field, I come back with
something that affects the book and the argumentation. So this is what I'm saying is that we, we,
people want the big story. People want the big synthesis. But we're at that moment now where
we've just unlocked a universe that we need to explore, much less talk, you know, talk about
that universe's origins or anything of that sort. We're still figuring out what's in it. You see
what I mean? Yes. So much. And it's so different, so radically different than everything we thought
we knew. We've got tons to do. So this is the humility I think we need to bring with us when we
explore these areas. And when we talk about it, I mean, it's incremental. Yes, every single
article. So when you write an article, we have, we treat a specific text. I mean, that there,
that's the building block. That's the lasting piece of scholarship because what we're doing is
that we are, we're basically trying to restore as well as we can, methodologically informed way as
possible, what that text meant in its original context and what its implications are and how
it fits into that broader world. And it's step by step, slowly and slowly. You see, every season
changes things. One last question in light of what we discussed in your ongoing work on this.
The big picture that you're saying that we can't paint yet and shouldn't try, is that slowing
down the progress of what you're trying to achieve? And then it's a two-prong question. Sorry,
I'm throwing two in there. It really should have been one. But it's, is that slowing it down? What
are the problems with that? And then what have we discovered that is overturning what we once
thought? Because I don't know the field inside and out, especially pre-Islamic observations.
What is so radical about what you discovered in a nutshell for the basic person who's sitting
down watching this video on YouTube going, what is so unique that's that overturns what was the
standard idea in what he's describing? Yeah, we do need the synthesis, of course, but it's that big.
So for me, my own personal opinion at the moment, maybe it'll anger some people, but is that we are
not, we don't yet have a clear enough picture of pre-Islamic, Western Arabian general on the
eve of Islam. From the data still coming, there's a lot of data, there's a lot to do. We haven't
reconstructed that world accurately enough to really configure it with Quranic origins.
But that's important because what happens, a lot of the argumentation about things like Quranic
origins, especially its geography, is based off of ideas of implausibility. It is implausible that
a place like X be the origin of Y. But how do you know what the place like X looks like? You see
what I mean? That's what we don't know yet. So that argument based on the plausibility of a certain
thing is not going to hold very well. You see what I mean? So we don't, that big, that huge picture
is not there. But, you know, for example, we can talk about, you know, I did a synthetic study,
I think we can do that step-by-step on what do the Sunphitic inscriptions tell us about the religion
of these nomads. That's a piece of pre-Islamic Arabia. That's a piece of it. You see what I mean?
Yep. I gave a talk last week at the seminar for Arabian Studies in Paris on what do the
Hijazi, Paleo-Arabic inscriptions tell us about the religious landscape of the Hijaz,
in terms of transformation that we know so far. And I talked about trends slowly getting there.
The statements like, you know, hey, the Quran couldn't plausibly come from the Hijaz because
there were no monotheists there. There were no Christians there. There were no, no, we don't
know. Let's take it easy a bit. We don't know really very much at all. We still, just to give,
just to give an idea. Think about how important this area is. The area between Mecca and Medina,
which was a high traffic area. Okay. That area between Mecca and Medina has not been surveyed.
It's not been explored. No idea. So these assumptions that we hear usually are from like
fringe ideas. And I don't mean that derogatorily. I mean, like, like people who are pushing back
against the tradition that we typically get told. Yes. They come up with like the Petra model,
or they come up with all these different origin of Mecca's really Petra or these kind of things.
And they're kind of, I don't want to say pseudo, but I do want to say pseudo because like there's
these, we get the same trends, for example, in biblical stuff. You get guys who go, well, we have
dates and names wrong about biblical characters. The chronology is wrong. So now what we need to do
is shift it by 300 years, and then you'll find out Solomon is actually Pharaoh, this, this Pharaoh,
and like they do weird stuff to try and like make it make sense. But in totally different
geographies or totally different figures from different regions, weird stuff. I'm sure you've
heard of like Petra model or like people saying that. Yeah. So I think it's a symptom of what
people do is they look at and their interpretation of how scholarship is preceded. This is certainly
true for pre-Islamic Arabian religion is that people have over relied on, on literary sources
from the Islamic period and treated them really uncritically. So, so what the general model of,
in their mind, right? The general model of, and this is to caricature, that's not what I think.
I'm trying to kind of give an idea of what some of the detractors would say. The general model of
Western scholarship until recently of Islam has been, we're just going to take the Islamic narrative
and we're going to remove the supernatural stuff and voila, we have history. So, okay,
the whole story, Muhammad's whole life is that's factual except for the parts he's talking to angels
and God. That's fake. Right. And he's just really writing the whole thing himself. But everything
else is good. And their response to that is like, when you can't take an epic, theological epic is
the way they would view it and take out what seems to you to be historically implausible and then
determine you have history. So it's a pushback against that. Now, I don't think that that's what
Western scholars have been doing, but I can see how from a certain point of view, you can, you know,
have an uncharitable reading of their work in that way. Okay. The pushback though, is that it's
all wrong. It's all story land. It's all fairy tales. Right. We have the same problem with Arabic
poetry, pre-Islamic Arabic poetry, people have taken it at face value, then you have this kind of
response to it, which is, no, it's all fake. It's all useless, all invisible. Now we're coming back,
the field is coming back and saying, no, it's real. We're going to kill back and forth, whatever.
The same idea here. So it's a symptom of that. So Petra, yeah, I mean, okay, put out the idea.
I think the field is settled that it's not plausible. It doesn't work out. I mean, that's
basically, but that's the idea. People put out an idea. The same thing with the Christoph Luxembourg
idea that the Quran was originally an Aramaic or whatever. I mean, the idea was put out there and
it received a lot of attention from the field. Scholars gave it a fair shake and they said
it doesn't work out. And that's the way scholarship moves. But the reason why that kind of scholarship
exists is because, you know, there had, there didn't develop until really recently a proper
source and textual critical approach to this material, right? Philology has been so bad.
I mean, people who are looking at this material didn't really have a good comparative methodology.
And then, I mean, our only way of understanding things is comparatism, right? I mean, this is
what we're doing. And so if you don't have a good comparatist methodology, you can go off the rails,
like, but they're good tests because, in my opinion, works like, you know, Quran is written in
Aramaic, Petra is the original Mecca. They're good teaching moments because they must understand
why we know what we know, why we think we know what we know. Because when we can say this, we know
that this isn't the case. We lay out why we can better defend why we think we know what we know.
You see what I mean? We're grateful for those existing. It's the point because it helps us hone
in and sharpen our observations to be more accurate about what the data seems to be indicating
and still may not have an absolute conclusive thing. So like, based on everything you presented
today, right, we can't rule out that the traditional narrative that something started here in this
area is not the case. We have epigraphic, we have inscription, we have archaeology, or at least
we will have more, at least as time goes by, if we start to examine these things that might
actually help us go, hey, using Christianity as an analogy, did Jesus really walk around in the
Galilee synagogues around the Lake Tiberius? Did he actually go down to Jerusalem and get and flip
over money changing tables? Well, we can say some of this stuff was there, but can we say he did it?
Well, my point is, is like, there's a mix between legend and possible historical verisimilitude,
and we don't need to throw the baby out with the bath water, but we don't need to keep the
baby with the bath water. We need to have external evidence. We need epigraphic, archaeological
evidence that can maybe help us in, in understanding what may be going on. And then at some point,
we should draw a line and go, hey, okay, we will never know if that even happened. There's just no
way to be able to nail that down if this exact thing here that is written occurred. I'm using Jesus
for the example because- Sure, sure, yeah. Who was it? Was it Bart Ehrman who said there's,
I mean, there's no historical evidence for the vast majority of history, right? Something
along those lines, right? So we'll never be able to know, you know, whether specific details happened.
But so like, we come back to our man, Hambalah here, like, we don't know for a fact that he died
in the battle of Uhud. We don't know for a fact, you know, the kind of conversations he was having
with the prophet or whatever. But the, what we do know is that a man like him could have very
plausibly existed in these places. The epigraphic evidence shows that, you know, a figure like that
could have plausibly existed here. And so that's about as far as you can go, you know.
I was going to say, I can imagine people, again, remember when we create a problem that sometimes
is harder, it's a worse problem than it is than the average. I could see someone going, no, no,
no, what happened was someone wrote in proto-Arabic later to try and put this in this place. You see
how far they'll go. I mean, yeah, in fact, you know, we can do that and then we can push it further
and then we're all living in a simulation, right? I mean, I mean, of course you can. This is the
point. I mean, if you, we all have to assume that we can learn about things. And if we're willing
to admit these kinds of implausible possible, everything's possible, but implausible scenarios,
then we have, we're not in business of anything. I mean, it's just done. I mean, maybe somebody,
we don't know how, went and wrote all the Safyedic inscriptions. And yes, they're weathered and the
Bettina shows that they've been there for centuries and all of that, but maybe they have a technology
that can do that. I mean, you can come with a million excuses. And my point is maybe, maybe,
maybe, maybe this is all the simulations, all the matrix and none of it's real at all, right?
And there's no way you can actually demonstrate that that's not the case, right? That's this
philosophical problem. Like no one can demonstrate that we're not in a simulation, but you know,
you're not going to get very far with things if you focus on that possibility. You, whether you're
in a simulation or not, have to assume that the simulation works according to certain rules and
that you can discover things about it. And that's what we're going to do about the past. I don't
know. I mean, yeah, these, I can make very good scientific arguments as to why it is extremely
implausible. I mean, it's completely unlikely. I mean, we're talking about, you know, 0.0001%
possibility that anybody had ever faked any of these things, right? Combination of Bettina,
the weathering, the knowledge of the orthography, which, you know, people didn't have any of the
phraseology, all of this stuff, it's not there. But if you're going to admit that kind of stuff,
yes, I mean, Bigfoot could have written these things. He probably did write them. Yeah, you're
right. Why not? And so we are. But yeah, lots to learn, lots to do. And yeah, so much fun. So,
yeah, well, I see that we've been here for two hours. Yes. Time flies. It does. So maybe we call
it a day and get another time. I really appreciate you. Ahmad Al-Jalad. I hope I pronounced that
properly. I do try. The only pronunciation that I don't admit. So Ahmed is the, is the proper
Arabic pronunciation. But I also, you know, I lived in the Netherlands for a long time. They say
Ahmed there. Ahmed, that's fine. Even with the Turks, I wouldn't they say Ahmed, that's fine
as well. I will not accept the pronunciation Ahmad. Oh my God. That is, oh, that is nails on a
chalkboard. I can't take it. Oh, I can't take it. So that one. So whatever you say, Ahmed,
Ahmed, as long as you have a consonant there after the up, that's fine with me. And choose your
consonant. That's totally fine. But there needs to be a consonant there. Yeah, you have been fantastic.
This is a journey that I can't wait to see in the next decade or two, where you go and those
as your colleagues and stuff. Haitham, I always say Haitham. You said Haitham. Haitham. Haitham.
Sidki. He's awesome. We've done one particularly dealing with, I believe it was kind of in the
preservation vein at a minute since we recorded on that. But I really love what you do. I hope
more people find curiosity, enjoy this. I could see the importance of this and how this, how this
might help us understand again, how to pieces together in the long run to get this big picture.
Maybe we get a really good big picture by the end of your life, hopefully on understanding better.
I'd love that. I mean, we're going to get something at some point.
Maybe we don't see it, but it's coming. Yeah, for sure. Absolutely. Well, thanks so much.
Thank you. And good day. You too. Have a good one. And everyone, drop a comment.
Let us know your favorite part. Have a good one.
