Help MythVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Go down in the description. Make sure you guys subscribe to Digital Hammurabi Podcast.
Wee!
MythVision. Welcome back, your host, Derek Lambert.
Dr. Joshua Bowen is joining me today, author of two wonderful books.
Learn to read Ancient Sumerian. He can read actual Ancient Sumerian.
And slavery in the Bible. Did the Old Testament endorse slavery?
You know, we did a podcast on that already, and I think we have much more we could even discuss on that topic because there's so much.
But I'm glad you're joining me today, brother, because it seems like we're going to be waving by to Tire.
Indeed, indeed.
Yeah, you know, prophecy is something that is extremely at my heart. And the way I understood it, I didn't even know how people like Dr. John J. Collins, you know, explained it.
You know, foretelling is all I knew. I thought prophecy just meant, like, in the future predictions.
And I didn't know there was, like, different various forms of this. And, you know, he's fascinating, man.
We got to get him on with you to do a collaborative show. I've already told you we needed to, but we really need to do that.
He's a great guy.
So you felt prophecy, like, as a Christian, when I was coming out, I was full Preterist, which is like fringe within Christianity.
But I was trying to be faithful and protect Jesus's words. And like, he said that, you know, this generation, that kind of stuff, right?
Like, it had to happen soon. It was supposed to happen very, very quickly. And the whole end was supposed to wrap up.
So I'm trying to save the face of Jesus and his words and a fell prophecy cannot happen from someone like him.
And then I find out that this isn't the first time that this has happened.
And then guys like you come on and say, I heard the burst your bubble, buddy, but let's wave goodbye to tire.
Right. It's, I think it's misplaced. And I feel, again, I feel comfortable saying that because I used to be a fundamentalist, evangelical Christian.
And I had that same, you know, concept with, with the biblical text, every word, every letter, every, you know, grammatical form is inspired and inerrant.
And so if you come up on something like a failed prophecy, you've got to come up with some way to explain it.
I was actually listening to someone this morning talk about the story of Jacob when he takes the flock out to trick Laban.
And he puts these striped rods down in front of the flock to mate in front of and the sympathetic magic that takes place where they become speckled.
And he's trying to explain it. Well, you know, it could be that there's some sort of something in the sap that comes in and there's a paper that's written on this.
And, you know, I mean, I admire that, right? I mean, I admire beating every bush trying to come up with something.
But the rationale that he said was, you know, I want to be honest with the text.
And if there's something here where the Bible says something that's not scientifically accurate, well, then it's all false.
And it was like, see, that's the problem. That's the problem.
So, yeah, I think that it's, it's important, even though I know it can be frustrating.
It's important to people that are holding on to this, you know, more extreme fundamentalist position to sort of be confronted with things like Ezekiel 26 and the prophecy against Tyre.
Right.
And to then say, well, wait a minute, okay, this one's clear. This one's really clear.
It's really hard to spin out of this. So how can I adjust my hermeneutical approach and still maintain my Christian faith? Can I do that?
And I think you can. I think you can. But it's, it's reworking and rethinking.
That's what I think the whole, like, I know your specialty is mainly on the ancient languages and the Hebrew Bible, you read it, you teach it, in fact.
So anyone watching this literally needs to subscribe and check out your channel. And if they're ever interested in learning this stuff, like you go down and you break down the grammar, you break it down.
You're showing, you're pretty much doing what people are teaching in college for free and they can access this online.
And I truly recommend everyone educate themselves and learn. And if at the very least they can subscribe and help the channel grow, make your channel more exposed to more people, share the content.
It's extremely important because you and me have a lot in common on this that we're skeptics and we were both fundamentalist Christians.
And now we're looking at this book trying to truly understand it. And we always said, no, we're truly trying to understand it.
But we, we can't really say that now looking back to where we really trying to understand it or where we, where we really just trying to make it fit and work so that we can keep our faith.
And so confirmation bias. Yeah.
So today you're going to talk about Ezekiel. And there's what is well known to be, according to scholars in this field, a failure of prophecy, but you're going to have to build this case up.
I'm going to pretend that I'm not convinced until you show me otherwise.
Yeah, I mean, I think it I put a presentation together. So I think I'll be able to share the screen here in a sec. But I mean, you know, the big thing is, when we say a failed prophecy, I'm, you know, I'm coming at this from, you know, an atheistic perspective.
Right. I used to be fundamentalist Christian. I'm not anymore. So when I talk about a failed prophecy, what I'm, what I'm saying is Ezekiel said X is going to happen and then X didn't happen.
Now, if you're coming at this from a Christian perspective, you know, you can tweak that word, you can nuance that word failure to mean, and it's fine. Like I don't see any real.
It's not a, it's not a contradictory position to say, yeah, yeah, Ezekiel said something, it didn't say X and it didn't come to pass, but there's a way that we can think about this where it's not contradictory.
And so that's, we'll talk about that a little bit today.
Okay. Yeah, I could see that happening for sure. I mean, I always tried to.
But let me go ahead and share my screen. Okay, so I have entitled this wave goodbye to tire. And of course, as we go through this, you, you will see why that's sort of a dad joke, I guess, I don't know.
But it's Ezekiel's prophecy against the island city of tire and Ezekiel 26. So what I want to do is set up so that everybody can kind of understand what's going on in the book.
And then in the book as a whole, and then in the major section that this prophecy is in. And then the section of the section, in other words, I'm going to try to do is, you know, zero in sort of bullseye in on where Ezekiel 26 is, because this is a, this is a very well structured piece of literature.
And so that that's sort of the goal here. So I'm going to talk about the background of the book of Ezekiel just very briefly, and the problem that we're facing, and then the structure of the book as a whole.
Then we're going to look at the prophecy of Ezekiel 26 itself. And then there's a sort of a follow up prophecy in chapter 29, which is, I suppose, in a sense, the final nail on the coffin for this tire prophecy and then finally some proposed solutions.
So the background and structure.
And please feel free to stop me at any point during this to ask questions or whatever.
Sounds good.
So Nebuchadnezzar, the second king of the New Babylonian Empire, which we know we're talking about over in Mesopotamia, you know, modern day Iraq, he's in control, right, he's conquered, you know, the New Babylonian Empire has conquered the Neo-Syrian Empire.
You know, we're right at the, they did this right at the end of the seventh century.
And now, you know, he's, he's been sort of going west from Iraq from Mesopotamia and making the people over in, you know, in the 11 team coast over there were Israel and Lebanon, all these places are pay tribute.
And so in 586, just to sort of start somewhere, he goes and he lays siege to Jerusalem and takes it, which is part of Ezekiel's prophecies.
We'll talk about in just a second.
Ezekiel then prophesies that Nebuchadnezzar is about to like that.
That's the grammatical structure there is he's it's like imminent.
He's about to destroy Tire.
And that's chapter 26.
The problem is that we know from history that Nebuchadnezzar besieged the island for 13 years, but he wasn't able to take it.
And it's not surprising, I suppose that he wasn't because former Neo-Syrian kings, you know, Esar had and Ashurbanipal, they had, they had tried to take.
They tried to do things to tire and they were able to make it submit.
But nobody's ever been able to actually make it out to the island, the island fortress and breach it.
So it didn't happen.
So then in Ezekiel 29, just 15 years later, this oracle or this part of the oracle, it contains a follow up prophecy.
I call it that because it's he's kind of circling back.
You know, all this time has gone by the siege has ostensibly ended and Tire didn't fall.
And so in Ezekiel 29, he's writing this follow up prophecy to explain why Nebuchadnezzar failed to take the city.
So this is the problem that is sort of set up in the book.
Why is it that Ezekiel prophesied the fall of Tire in great detail?
By the way, we'll see that in a second. And it just doesn't come to pass.
And then then Ezekiel comes back and says it, you know, didn't actually work out.
So what's the rationale? How do we explain this?
So the book as a whole is broken up into three parts.
And all of this information, you can find a really good breakdown of it in any number of commentaries.
Probably the one that has been the most influential is by Daniel Block.
It's in the Nikot series, the new international commentary in the Old Testament.
I've got it here. I'll show it to the audience a little bit later if you want, but it's excellent to volume series.
It's not easy reading. It's not it's not bedtime reading.
But if you're interested in really going through literary structure and all the different arguments, those sorts of things.
It's an excellent book. So.
But there are three basic parts to the book of Ezekiel.
And of course, Ezekiel, he is, I guess I should mention this, he was probably a Zadokite priest.
So he was one of these, you know, elite priests, different kinds.
But he was from Jerusalem, it seems, and he was taken as part of the into Babylonic captivity in the 597.
And when Nebuchadnezzar came against Jerusalem in 597, he took elites with him and Ezekiel ostensibly went with him.
So he's writing this book in this time frame.
Wow.
So the first and these are individual oracles, you know, they're brought together. There's an extensive editing process.
It's actually kind of complicated. We definitely don't want to go into that here.
I'm not, I'm not qualified to talk about the editing process. It would take a lot of a lot of work there.
You would need to be prepared, I think, I mean, perhaps, perhaps.
Yeah, you're definitely qualified to do stuff. Don't pretend.
Oh, gosh. Well, I know it doesn't John J. Collins discuss these things. Dr. Collins, a professor.
Yeah, and I've actually got a book that I'm going to recommend at the end of all this.
Okay.
It's a recent book, recent publication of his.
So, you know, it's excellent for for people that are looking to just get big picture information. So, okay.
But the book of Ezekiel breaks down into three basic parts. You have prophecies of destruction against Jude and Jerusalem.
That's chapters one to 24. So, you know, this is this is all against Jude and Jerusalem. It's whoa, whoa, you know, to you.
Then part two are the oracles against the nations. We'll talk about this in a second, a little more detail, but these are, you know, the whoa is turned outward to Israel's enemies.
And that's where we find this, obviously, this prophecy against the series of prophecies against the city of tire.
And then finally, at the end, in good prophetic fashion, you have the prophecies of restoration. So his comfort is consolation that everything's going to work out in the end.
So,
if we zero in a little bit more to board Ezekiel 26, we find ourselves in the oracles against the nations. And again, these are prophecies against either Israel's immediate neighbors.
And as time went by, it seems like they developed into other, you know, the list of nations grew.
You can see these in places like the book of Amos.
You can see it in Isaiah, book of Jeremiah, extensive sections on these. It's sort of a stock thing.
And Dr. Collins actually talks about this.
He certainly, you know, he's, sorry, he when he talks about this is you see the Makai of Ben Imla, and he's this prophet that goes and all these other prophets are talking to prophesying to the kings of Judah and Israel.
And they're all saying, yes, God's going to destroy all your enemies are going to destroy these people in this group and this other group.
And of course, Makai goes up and and lays the smackdown on them and says it's actually going to be you. It's going to get beaten.
But this is a trope like this is a thing. It's he argues that it's sort of rallying the troops, getting ready to go out to war is sometimes when they're used.
So this is a stock thing. Interesting.
In the book of Ezekiel, they show up in you have some shorter.
Some shorter oracles against nations in chapter 25, and then longer ones slightly, you know, much longer against tire, and then even even longer against against Egypt.
And if you just a bit of interesting, something interesting to note, if you look at geographically, these, these oracles, they go from, you know, looking directly east and to prophesying against amen, and then going south and west like along the bottom,
you know, a semi circle, I guess, you know, to, to Moab and Edom and the Philistines over in the West, and then ultimately it moves to the far north, further north to tire and siden and then ultimately down south to Egypt.
So you can see geographical pattern, which is interesting kind of interesting. Yeah.
But that's the basic makeup of that section of the oracles against the nation so within that we see the oracles against tire so we're zeroing in here.
And this is where it gets funny because Ezekiel 28 is often used for the whole Satan devil scenario which wouldn't it be interesting that all these Christians run to this amazing passage to describe this evil character.
And find out that it's a felled prophecy in which it's describing this character.
I mean, you know, not to not to deviate too much. Certainly the, you know, the prophecy and Ezekiel 28 is against a human king. Right. Right.
So the, the language that's used to describe it, I think it's perfectly reasonable to think that there is sort of this older tradition that he's, you know, sort of tapping into, but, you know, I think that those passages are often taken.
That's why I said Christians take that because, you know, oftentimes we'll look at it for what it is, but you're not denying there's a garden of Eden paradigm there that's being referenced.
But the point is this isn't Satan. Right.
Yeah.
And it's, it's, I think it's certainly playing on.
I mean, it's, it's okay. We can do another show on that.
Yeah.
So with the oracles against the nations chapter 26, you could just pull them all up here. There's a pattern that blocked that block demonstrates and it's called an AB AB pattern.
So if you look, you can see my mouse here, 26 is judgment on tire.
Then the next chapter is a lament over tires destruction.
Then 28, the first half of 28 is a judgment on the king of tire.
So you can see judgment, judgment. And then 28 11 and 19 is a lament over the judgment of the king of tire. So AB AB is what they call that pattern.
So you can see the point is that it's structured this way. The book of Ezekiel is it's, it's a piece of literature, right? I mean, it's structured very, very well.
And we'll see that as we go on.
That's, yeah, it's not strictly chiastic, because you know, it's, it wouldn't be ABBA, but it's a, it's a poetic, it's a poetic structure AB AB.
But yeah, it's poetic as the, as the.
Okay.
Then if we zero in further, we come to the actual prophecy in chapter 26.
So this might seem a little tedious and I'm sorry if it does, but I think it's important because it's, it's necessary, I think, for, for you to understand for people to understand the way that this chapter is structured.
There are sections that are connected to one another in such a way that it makes it difficult, I think, to argue.
It makes it difficult to argue some of the interpretations.
You know, let me say it differently, because that didn't make any sense. People are going to, people have argued that
the first part of Ezekiel 26, that's about Nebuchadnezzar.
But then, as you go down through the paragraph, that turns into Alexander the Great.
Oh, so it's real prophecy.
So it's a real prophecy. So it doesn't fail, right? Now there are all kinds of problems with that. And at the end of this, I'll give the reader, I mean, the reader, the audience, audience.
Yeah, yeah, I'll give you guys some, some further reading that you can, you can do if you want to look at this in some detail.
But it's important to notice the structure. So, okay, there's a, there's a, then this is this happens throughout the book. It's, there's a date formula that, you know, opens the section, the Oracle itself.
So on the such and such day of the such and such year, you know, whatever.
And then it says, son of man, the Lord is speaking and he says son of man, you know, human, say to whatever group of people. So it's stock.
It's a stock phrase, son of man, it's used throughout Ezekiel.
Then there are these thus says the Lord Yahweh.
Coamar Adonai Elohim, it's the, it's strides, a standard form.
And it happens four different, you know, in four different key places here. So you have it in verse three, and I'm going to show you in a second big picture.
And then it happens in seven and in 15 and in 19.
It's important to notice that there is a, the word for in the second and fourth.
And what that word for is doing is connecting this one to this one.
So if I were to say to you, I am going to the store, if I said it really poetically, I'm going to the store for we need more milk.
Right. Right. You know, it's connecting the first thing that I said to the second thing that I said, and that's what's happening here in modern context.
It'd be like, I'm going to the store because we need more milk.
So, right. Exactly.
So that's what's happening here. This section A is being connected to section B.
And then section C is being connected to section D. So let me just show you that.
So here is an English, but here's your date formula in the 11th month of the 12th year on the first day of the month.
Here's your son, and then the rationale for why this particular judgment is coming.
Therefore, thus says the Lord Yahweh section A for thus says the Lord Yahweh section B. So these two are connected.
Then thus says the Lord Yahweh for thus says the Lord Yahweh. So C and D are connected.
And I'm not just making that up.
So, and by the way, you get a lot of I could tell you get a lot of people who want you to be wrong. And so I understand what you're why you're saying.
Indeed.
And I want everybody to know what I'm presenting here. This is like overwhelmingly consensus scholarship. This is not my hair brain theory. This is this is what this is what scholars in the field say about this.
So when you look at that structure, how does Ezekiel 26 sort of breakdown.
So there is a judgment versus one to six that first section is judgment of Yahweh.
Who is acting as the agent. So if you look back here, thus says the Lord Yahweh, I am against you tire, and I will bring this is the Lord speaking right.
I will scrape. I have spoken.
And they will know that I'm the Lord, but this this is this is a first person Yahweh is speaking, you know, he's the agent.
He's the one doing the work.
However, in section two, you have the judgment of Yahweh the same judgment.
And it's describing Nebuchadnezzar as the agent. So if you I know I'm flipping back and forth here, which might be a little bad for people with.
Anyway, I was going to say like,
you can just cut that part out.
But here, you know, you have I am against you tire, but down here from the north, I am going to bring against tire Nebuchadnezzar and Nebuchadnezzar he's going to do all these things.
So he will ravage, he will direct his blows.
When it switches to they here, we can talk about this, if you like, his his army, right, his his cavalry and his soldiers, but it's it's a it's a third person agent.
God is, you know, Yahweh is bringing these people.
So essentially what he's saying is I'm going to do it.
This is my instrument.
So who am I going to use, I'm going to use Nebuchadnezzar.
Then section three, the international response to Yahweh's judgment.
So we won't go into detail about these sections, but you know, the all the people that have done all this trade with tired tire, because of its position on the coast and out in the water.
And in the Mediterranean, everybody, it was a hub, everybody traded with tire from land from the sea, like everybody traded with tire.
So tire was very, very wealthy.
Of course, this was the reason that would have been significant to take it, because they had a lot of money.
So all of these people that have been trading with with, you know, tire and have noticed their great wealth and all these things.
They're going to mourn, they're going to put on sackcloth and ashes, you know, and they're going to shake their heads and know how the mighty have fallen, you know, right.
And then finally, the final section, I've, you know, titled it wave goodbye to tire.
And I don't think I've explained it yet. So let's just look at it very quickly.
The reason that I'm saying that is if you notice in the first section here, I will bring many nations against you like the sea casting up its waves, right.
They will destroy the walls of tire and pull down her towers, but it's, it's using the metaphor of like the sea casting up its waves.
And because it's out as an island in the water is very fitting. And ultimately when you come, when you know when you come down, we'll see.
I guess we can see it here.
And when I bring the ocean depths over you and the vast waters cover you, you will bring, I will bring you down with those who go down to show, I mean, to the, so that's not show here to the pit.
Sort of a stock thing that shows up in different parts of Ezekiel, but it's this water imagery, this watery grave imagery.
So that's that, that's the wave goodbye, the waves of the water descent into show. I'm nerdy.
It's okay, man. It's okay.
Okay, so let's get into the actual two sections, those two important sections that have this main prophecy about the details of what Nebuchadnezzar is going to do.
So if you don't mind, I'm just going to read it.
Yeah.
So starting in verse three, therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh, I am against you tire, and I will bring many nations against you like the sea casting up its waves.
They will destroy the walls of tire and pull down her towers.
I will scrape away her rubble and make her a bear rock.
Out in the sea, she will become a place to spread fishnets, for I have spoken, declares the sovereign Lord.
She will become plunder for the nations and her settlements on the mainland will be ravaged by the sword.
Then they will know that I am the Lord.
So things that you want to, that we all want to pay attention to here, I've highlighted in red, and you'll see why in the next screen.
So many nations, it's very important.
He's going to bring many nations, he's going to bring, they're going to destroy the walls and pull down the towers.
So the walls and the towers, scrape away her rubble and make her a bear rock.
It's a key phrase.
Is that a phrase?
A place to spread fishnets.
Very important.
Plunder for the nations.
Settlements on the mainland will be ravaged by the sword.
So these are, the reason I'm pointing these out is you're going to see them paralleled.
And what Daniel Block describes as, it's expository.
The second section is sort of expository development of, it's developing further these general statements in the first section and with more specificity in the second.
So if you look at the next section, for thus says the Lord Yahweh, so there's that little four.
So it's, it's, there's the connector section one connected to section two.
Thus says the Lord Yahweh, from the north, I am about to bring against tire Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, king of kings with horses and chariots with horsemen and a great army.
And in the English, it doesn't really do it justice.
There's, it's, it's describing a massive multitude of people that are coming.
He will ravage your settlements on the mainland with the sword.
He will set up siege works against you, build a ramp up to your walls and raise his shields against you.
He will direct the blows of his battering rams against your walls and demolish your towers with his weapons.
His horses will be so many that they will cover you with dust.
Your walls will tremble at the noise of the war horses, wagons and chariots when he enters your gates as men enter a city whose walls have been broken through.
The host of his horses will trample all your streets.
He will kill your people with the sword and your strong pillars will fall to the ground.
They will plunder your wealth and loot your merchandise.
They will break down your walls and demolish your fine houses and throw your stones, timber and rubble into the sea.
I will put an end to your noisy songs and the music of your harps will be heard no more.
I will make you a bare rock and you will become a place to spread fishnets.
You will never be rebuilt for I the Lord have spoken says the Lord Galway.
That's pretty bold, bro.
Yeah, and it's not subtle.
It's not ambiguous.
No, that's clearly saying what it means and meaning.
It's not like...
And there's people who will argue this and I'm sure you know where they...
Apocalyptic language, right?
They want to try and deduce, well, he's splitting the earth asunder and the moon and the sun and the light and the...
You know, and they want to go, we'll see.
It's hype language, but it doesn't mean completely what it's saying.
Here, it's like it's not getting strange like that even.
And there are some people who make the case that that apocalyptic language is foretelling a supposed end that's supposed to happen at some point.
But I digress because that's not the point here.
Right here, you look at the details.
I mean, look at this.
It's giving explicit detail.
What's interesting about it is this language, and people have noted this for as long as people have studied Ezekiel,
this language is not really conducive to going up against besieging an island city, right?
And it's sort of stock imagery.
There's a way that Ezekiel describes people besieging a city.
And, you know, we won't go into that detail here, but you see very similar language used for other siege passages about laying siege to a city.
So this is sort of the way that he describes this.
But the point is, I think the, I can't remember who made the point, which scholar, but essentially this, the idea is he's doing it in such, he's laying siege,
Nebuchadnezzar is going to lay siege in such a way that he's going to bring about it as this entry into the city just as if it was a city on the mainland, right?
Right.
A city on the city on the ground, not out in the water.
But the things to notice here.
So we saw up in the previous section, I'll just go back really quickly.
Many nations is paralleled here with, I'm about to bring against Tyre Nebuchadnezzar and look at the, if you look at the amount of the description here,
King of Babylon, King of Kings, horses, chariots, horsemen.
And this is, it's literally like an assembly, a kahl, which is, it can mean like just a regular group of people or it can be used to describe an entire army.
And it says a kahl and an Amrav, which is like a whole bunch of people.
So it's, so they're taking it as like a henditis here, but so like a vast army.
It's just, it's a whole ton of people, right?
Yeah.
That are coming.
And if you look at passages like Jeremiah 34-1, and we can turn to that later if you want, I didn't put that in here.
But you know, the Babylonian army, Nebuchadnezzar's army is sort of described this way.
It's made up of a bunch of different groups of people.
So, you know, the idea here that this is the sticking point for, for many people that will wait.
It says many nations in verse three.
So Nebuchadnezzar, the Neobabalonian army, that must be just the first nation to come.
And, and like Alexander would be another nation, right?
The problem is, first of all, like, it's just consensus scholarship.
Just to say it right off the bat is that's nonsense.
But, but it's, it's very clear.
I think from looking at the way the Babylonian army is described, not only here, but in other passages.
And again, Jeremiah 34-1 is a really good example of it, I think, where this is what's being described.
It's this massive horde of people.
Historically speaking, I, and I can see why Christians would want to argue you on this.
But historically speaking, was Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon and Babylon made up of many possibly conquered peoples,
but a variety of nations were encompassed in this.
Not everyone was Babylonian.
So, you know, you, you see in certain passages, even in Ezekiel,
Ezekiel 21, I can't remember.
But you see the Chaldeans are always a part.
We're coming out with a video series, actually.
Okay.
That's talking about the fall of the Neo-Syrian Empire.
So what?
Nebuchadnezzar was the first king of the Neo-Babalion Empire.
What he did to take over Iraq, Mesopotamia at that time in like 612-610.
Oh, so I talk about, in the videos,
what the South Babylonia was made up of.
It's made up of, you know, Chaldeans, Arameans,
native Babylonians.
It seems-
Kind of like Rome was a variety of nations in one,
technically, under the Roman Empire.
It was like, not every Roman, who's a Roman citizen,
is a Roman by blood.
Would it be like that, in a sense?
I mean, I'm not a Roman Empire expert.
I would say it's more like you have
different significant groups, ethnic groups,
that are in that area, that are part of Babylonia.
Okay, got it.
But in the prophets, you see this description
where it's not-
People are thinking like the nation is just, okay,
like we think about the American army, right?
Or the Russian army or something.
It's just like, that's that nation,
and that's that nation's army.
It's made up of a lot of different people,
particularly as it's described in the prophets.
Like there's the Assyrians make up part of it.
Again, I can't remember what chapter it's in, in Ezekiel.
But anyway, this is what this is referring to,
and I'm gonna give a little bit more evidence
for that here in a minute.
But the parallels between these two sections,
I think, are quite telling.
So we'll leave that for a second.
Just hold that thought in your head and say,
maybe it is, maybe it isn't.
He will ravage your settlements on the mainland
with the sword.
You go back.
Settlements on the mainland.
He will ravage, or will be ravaged by the sword, right?
There's a clear connection here.
Walls, he'll put batting rams against your walls
and demolish your towers.
If you remember earlier in the earlier section,
talked about bringing down the walls and the towers.
Here it is again, bring down your walls.
He's gonna loot.
This is the same word that's used up there for plunder.
He's gonna throw your stones, timber, and rubble.
This word, rubble, into the sea,
is the word that's used up in the first section.
So, and one more.
So make you a bear rock and you will become
a place to spread fishnets.
Make her a bear rock, become a place to spread fishnets.
It's the same wording.
It's obvious that, yeah.
So you're connecting and notice that it's not,
the argument is that there's a certain point,
like verse 12, where it switches,
some people have made this argument
that it switches to the pronoun they.
So here it's Nebuchadnezzar and he will do this
and he will do that and he will do that.
And then when they get into the city,
it switches and it says, and they will.
And people say, aha, the they is Alexander.
It's talking about they.
No, it's not.
And I'll point people to some good resources
that you can read about the reasons why that's not true.
But it's a very, to tell you what it is,
it's a very common literary tool to change the perspective.
So now it's switching from Nebuchadnezzar,
who's clearly not doing this himself, right?
He's not out there with a sword, hacking at people.
But it switches the perspective to his army, right?
To the people on the horses,
people have gone into the city.
And anyway, so that's what's going on there.
But so if, to make it very clear,
here are the two sections.
So here's your many nations in section one.
I guess I should have just done this from the beginning.
Sorry.
This is so good too.
This is for dummies like me.
Thank you.
So here's your many nations in blue.
This is like the debated thing, right?
Sort of, not really.
This is like the only spot though.
Out of all the comparisons,
it seems like there's really a debate of anything.
Yeah.
And it's because it has to be.
You can't have many nations just mean Nebuchadnezzar
if, you know, in his multiple components of his army,
if it didn't do it, right?
If he didn't accomplish it.
But if you look here, let's just set aside the blue.
They will destroy your wall,
the walls of Tyre and pull down her towers.
Here you go.
He will direct the blows of his battering rams
against your walls and demolish your towers
with his weapons.
I will scrape away her rubble.
They'll break down the walls and demolish your fine houses
and throw your stones timber and rubble.
There's that word into the sea.
Make her a bear rock out in the sea, into the sea.
She will become a place to spread fishnets.
I'll make you a bear rock
and you become a place to spread fishnets.
And then this one, of course,
and her settlements on the mainland
will be ravaged by the sword.
He will ravage your settlements
on the mainland with the sword.
So the connections here, I think are pretty clear.
And what's happening, not just the connections,
but what's happening is, as Block argues,
I think very convincingly,
that there are sort of general metaphorical statements
being made up here about generally what God's gonna do.
Like, if you think about this,
I'll bring many nations against you,
like the sea casting up its waves.
That's pretty general.
That's not very specific, right?
They will destroy your walls or the walls of Tyre
and pull down her towers.
Well, how?
How will they do that?
That's what's going on here.
So who are the many nations?
King of Babylon, king of kings.
This is an interesting phrase that we won't go into here,
but with horses, cherry, it's horsemen, a great army.
Destroy the walls of Tyre.
How?
He will direct the blows of his battering rams
against your walls and demolish your towers.
His horses will cover you with dust.
Actually, back here, he will lay up siege works against you.
Build a ramp up to your walls and raise the shields.
In other words, this is developing
a more general statement into greater detail.
I'll scrape away the rubble.
Well, how will you do that?
Break down your walls and demolish your fine houses
and throw your stones, timber and rubble into the sea.
So that's sort of what most people see this as.
Another example of this can be seen
just a couple of chapters later in chapter 32.
Now, this one's not as explicit.
Well, I guess it is.
Yeah, it is.
It's not as, there aren't as many connections
between the two sections as we just saw in 26.
It's because there's an awful lot of really cool imagery.
I actually just translated through this whole section
and it's really, just read it.
Ezekiel 32 is talking about Egypt.
But if you notice here, same sort of section,
I mean, same sort of setup.
Thus says the Lord Yahweh, this is the Lord God.
For, thus says the Lord God.
Again.
And it's the same structure, right?
Now, I will spread over you my net
with a company of many peoples.
Many peoples.
And they will take up your net.
Now this term, many peoples here is Amim Rabim,
which is, it's the same words in the singular form.
For many nations.
Right, not many nations.
It's a parallel term.
But here, it's used down here for many nations.
Oh wow.
It's the same, the same two words.
But the key here is, you know, what they're gonna do.
So if you think about the imagery here,
now we'll spread over you my net
with a company of many peoples,
that the peoples are going to be the net itself.
And they will take you up in my net.
How is that developed in the section?
For, thus says the Lord God.
The sword of the king of Babylon will come for you.
So again, the same thing here, I will cast you off.
I will satisfy all this first person stuff
that Yahweh's gonna do.
Here, he's now showing who the agent is.
Who's actually gonna do it?
The sword of the king of Babylon will come for you
with swords of mighty ones.
I will bring your multitude down.
The most violent ones of the nations are they all.
And they will destroy the pride of Egypt
and all its multitude will be destroyed.
So this sort of development, you know,
this expository development in the second section,
I think is also pretty clear here,
if that makes sense.
Yes.
Okay, so that's chapter 26.
It sets up the problem.
If you're still holding out,
well, maybe Ezekiel was, you know,
prophesying that, you know,
just Nebuchadnezzar's phase one, wave one,
you know, of the many nations,
29 becomes a problem for you.
So verses 17 to 20.
In the 27th year, in the first month of the first day,
the word of the Lord came to me, son of man,
there it is again,
Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon,
drove his army in a hard campaign against Tyre.
If you remember, we know from history
that likely went 13 years
and they didn't get in, right?
This is 15 years later.
So this is a couple of years after siege has ended,
ostensibly.
So he's looking at this and saying, okay,
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon,
drove his army in a hard campaign against Tyre,
every head was rubbed bare
and every shoulder made raw.
And they think that's probably
from carrying siege baskets full of dirt, right?
Rubbing the head.
Anyway, yet he and his army got no reward
from the campaign he led against Tyre.
Therefore, so people have made the arguments,
very clever, what people do here.
So people have made the argument that what that meant was,
he actually did get into Tyre to the island fortress,
but because it cost him so much money
to run this siege for 13 years, that it was a wash.
He got all the stuff from Tyre, but it was a wash, right?
Well, that's very problematic for any number of reasons.
We won't go into here again.
I can give you guys references to look at,
but he's writing and he's saying it didn't work, right?
It didn't work.
So where's he gonna get paid?
Where's Nebuchadnezzar gonna get paid?
Because God has essentially hired, not really,
but he's in this language, he's hired Nebuchadnezzar
to come and do his work for him.
Therefore, this is what the Lord Yahweh says.
I am about to give Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon,
and he will carry off its wealth.
He will loot and plunder the land as pay for his army.
I have given him Egypt as a reward for his efforts
because he and his army did it for me,
declares the Lord Yahweh.
Now, this is also a problem because this also fails.
It doesn't take Egypt either,
but we'll save that for another time.
But this is the problem, right?
So this is a prophecy after the siege has taken place.
You know, what we pretty much, I would say no happened.
We're fairly certain happened.
They didn't get in, but the King of Tyre finally got tired
of the siege, and so he submitted.
He didn't let them in, but he acquiesced in a certain way.
All right, I'll stop rebelling against you or whatever,
but they didn't get in and they didn't get its wealth.
That's the point.
And it wasn't leveled, right?
It wasn't taken down to bear rock.
Like none of that stuff happened.
So what do scholars say about this?
So here's Block, and I put two up here to this.
I could add 30 right now.
So like this is not really debated.
This oracle presents a major hermeneutical dilemma,
whereas chapters 26 through 28 had consistently envisaged
a total and permanent destruction of Tyre
at the hands of Nebuchadnezzar,
delivered some 15 years later,
this prophecy seems to admit the failure of that campaign.
So again, this is not a debated thing.
How is the apparent failure of Ezekiel's prophecy
to be explained?
So he's gonna lay out some things.
We'll take a look at them here in a second.
Okay.
Greenberg in the Anchor Bible series
that Yale commentary series.
And this is a Christian.
I think Block is a Christian.
Greenberg, I don't think so, although I don't know.
Okay, I don't know.
As the years went by
and none of his predictions materialized,
we may plausibly suppose the rise of new doubts
about his calling, that Ezekiel's calling.
At the start of his career,
his fears were answered by supportive personal oracles.
So God came and gave him these supportive oracles.
Now again, his God responded to his need for support
by revealing an amendment to the unfulfilled
higher prophecies.
So this is what scholars view as Ezekiel 29
is what's going on here.
This is, you know, it's saying it didn't work.
Right.
So what are some of the, sorry, go ahead.
No, no, no, go ahead.
So some of the proposed solutions,
again, you can go to Block.
He just, you know, I keep citing him,
but he puts it in such a nice little way here.
So, and these aren't all of them.
I just picked some of the more substantial ones, I guess.
So it wasn't a failure is, you know, one of the positions.
And we've sort of been dealing with that a little bit here.
You know, oh, well, it wasn't, you know,
they actually did get in.
This isn't really held by anybody anymore.
This was something that I think he cited a scholar
from 1886 or something.
So we just, that's not what happened.
The city was conquered.
So the island fortress was conquered,
but the island had been abandoned.
This is clever, right?
So if you think about the way the siege works,
they're cutting off the mainland,
which is where they got fresh water,
the city of Ushu on the mainland.
And they're cutting off supplies going out to the island.
Well, they've got ships.
So ostensibly they were able to survive
by sending ships, which was really clunky,
you know, really arduous,
but they were able to bring supplies in
through the ships.
And so what this argument is is,
well, yeah, they finally made it in.
So they breached it, right?
And they leveled it.
But the island had been abandoned.
Everybody had gotten on ships
and had taken off for like Egypt or something.
Again, this was an 1880 source,
like, you know, nobody helps this one that I know of.
Third one, Ezekiel was calling attention to the failure
to get God to act.
So I guess you can picture,
you know, if my son or my daughter,
I'll like my little child,
if Piper says, if I tell her,
I'm gonna get a Repopsicle or something
and 10 minutes goes by
and I haven't gotten a Repopsicle,
she may call attention to that failed prophecy of mine.
Dad, you said that you weren't going to get a,
you were gonna get me a Popsicle,
but that has not come to fruition, right?
And the idea is she's bringing it up to motivate me
to fulfill that prophecy.
And so that's a position.
Fine, I mean, I don't think that counters,
I don't think that runs contrary
to the information that we have.
No.
So a second prediction is inserted,
this chapter 29, a second prediction
to incorporate and explain the earlier failure,
which I think is very reasonable.
This last one is the one that I see the most
that the prophecy was contingent.
And just to talk about it very briefly,
Chisholm in 2010 wrote an article.
It was in Jets.
I can look that up.
But he makes, this is one of the places
that stands out to me.
So Jets is the journal,
the Evangelical Theological Society.
And he's making the argument that if you think about Jonah,
remember the story of Jonah,
Jonah sent to prophesy 40 days
and Nineveh's gonna be destroyed, right?
And the message in the text and the narrative,
that prophecy is designed to get Nineveh to repent.
That's the point.
So it's sort of like,
you better give me your lunch money
or I'm gonna beat you up, right?
That's not really a prophecy so much
as it is a threat to get you to give me your lunch money.
So this is sort of the way that these prophecies are viewed.
So that one is called out very specifically
Nineveh repents God changes his mind.
So the argument here is that God prophesied against Tyre
in order to get them to change their mind
or with the understanding that that prophecy was contingent
and if they did change their mind,
if they did relent or whatever,
that that would bring about God changing his mind.
There are problems with that.
Yeah, where's the evidence that they did, you know, so.
Right, I mean, so the argument that's made is that,
well, you know, we don't really have,
but I mean, you know, the king did seem to acquiesce,
you know, so we do have evidence of that.
So that maybe that's their changing their mind.
It seems a little, what post hoc, I guess,
you know, sort of a rationalization of something.
And it's interesting because he makes the statement
that we have the same problem with Egypt,
because again, Egypt doesn't fall to Nebuchadnezzar
in the way that it's supposed to.
And he says, we, I can't remember how he words it,
but it's essentially maybe we can assume
that that happened with Egypt as well.
But again, it's just sort of, it's trying to rescue.
This is being an inherent inspired text.
And I just, I don't think you need to do that,
but I don't think there's any,
I don't think there's any flat contradiction
or something there, but that's sort of the way
that's explained.
But again, except for one and two here,
these all, and again, these aren't really held anymore,
they all like recognize and are trying to wrestle
with the fact that he said Nebuchadnezzar
was going to do it, Nebuchadnezzar didn't do it,
and he made this prophecy, this second prophecy saying,
well, shucks, you know, so.
Okay, so we've covered a lot here,
but just to kind of go back through it,
I talked about the background and the structure
of Ezekiel as a whole, and we kind of zeroed in
to Ezekiel 26 and how those sections are connected together
and how that's significant for interpretation.
Then sort of the final nail in the coffin, I guess,
for the prophecy is this follow-up prophecy in chapter 29
and what that indicates,
and then how people have tried to solve the issue.
So I'll just leave this up here for a second
so people can pause it and get these,
these are some of the sources.
And actually, I'll just show a couple now
if you want extra weight till I'm back on camera.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But this is an important, I didn't bring this one in,
this one's neat, it's pretty recent, 2018,
history of Phoenicia.
So if people are just looking for like good,
historic background information to the Phoenician coast
and what happened historically,
you can see Isar Haddon and Ashurbanapal coming against Tyre
and then you can see Nebuchadnezzar
and what Nebuchadnezzar does
and sort of the most recent scholarship on that.
But this is a very popular work, Katzenstein.
People cite it all over the place,
it's sort of a seminal work on this.
History of Tyre from the beginning of the second millennium
until the Neobabalian Empire falls.
So he cited all over the place important book to pick up.
And then I just put some sort of major commentaries up here.
So I hope that's what you were looking for.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, look, it's obvious that everything will be done
to try and save face.
But the other thing that usually happens is,
and they're not wrong,
what is the technical term?
You corrected me on the phone about this a couple of weeks ago
when I say a prophecy that's written
after any event already happened, Xeventu.
That's right, Xeventu.
And I always call that retrospective
or a retrospective prophecy, even though that's what it is,
it's like there's a technical term.
And you try to rationalize and make sense of that,
especially when I had believed
that a lot of these prophecies have been fulfilled.
Well, usually they're written after.
So that makes sense.
And this is the interesting thing about prophecy Xeventu
is that it's a specific rhetorical strategy.
So again, I always cite the book of Daniel,
but certainly not the only place that you could go.
But the book of Daniel, particularly like in,
if you're getting down into chapters 10 and 11,
you see these, earlier in the book,
you have sort of broad stroke historical information.
It's wrong in several places, but it's sort of broad, right?
It's like this kingdom will reign
and then there's other kingdom will reign
and you don't have a lot of really specific information.
Not a lot.
Right.
But then when you get into chapter 10, it's like, boom,
like stuff starts getting real and it's in the second century.
It's these events that are happening in the second century
and they're in a very specific point in the second century.
So this king does this and they go over here
and they make an alliance with this
and they come up here and they fight against his own
and there's this battle here and then they marry here
and it's very, very specific.
Right.
And then it gets to a point where specific, specific,
and it's all precise.
It's right on.
Like we know this happened and this happened
and all these things that happened after, wrong.
And it's beautiful for us because we know,
I mean, I mean, I like using the word know there,
but I mean, that's sort of in the colloquial sense
of the historical sense.
We're collecting this.
Yeah, there's something we're learning here.
We recognize that that allows us to date the writings,
you know, the writings of these,
the date these writings here in chapters 10 and 11
because they're right up to this point
and we know when this event happened
and then they're wrong afterwards,
which is like a genuine attempt at prophecy.
But the rationale for utilizing this prophecy
after the fact is not, it's to lend authenticity
to the text, but you see this all the time.
We see it all the time in the ancient world.
People calling on, you know,
trying to go back into antiquity
and make it look like somebody in the past
has predicted all this stuff
because that obviously that tells me
and it tells you reading this, you know, in that time.
God did it.
God did it because look, and we can trust him.
See, this was the point of the book of Daniel
is it's to instill confidence in the listeners,
in the readers to know, hold fast to the faith
because look, God predicted all this stuff
and it all has come to pass
and we're right there at the end.
So just hang on because-
Professor Collins actually said that in his commentary,
really well said.
And I thought it was interesting that,
I mean, look, I'm not trying to advocate for Christianity,
but that many Christians also agree
there's failed prophecy here.
They're more liberal, of course,
but they're like, hey, it's failed,
but that's not the point.
The point is, it's for an encouragement,
it's trying to motivate,
but see, we look at it so like,
hey, you can't tell me a failed prophecy
and then tell me to believe this thing.
Like, you know, we're looking at it like that
and I think the New Testament does similar things
even though that's not your field of expertise.
It's like, here's all these events that are so obvious
that we know is the temple.
And then all of a sudden, and there's more to come.
Don't worry, it's coming.
It's like, did that actually happen?
I mean, are you trying to spiritualize it now?
And I think John does that.
Like, you see a development happening that's like crazy.
So it happens in the Bible
and it happens outside of the Bible.
Like, it's a human thing, it's seeing us, so.
And it's very interesting if people are,
you know, if people would like to come at this
from a Christian perspective,
Dr. Stephen Cook up at Virginia Theological Seminary,
good friend of ours, the nicest guy you'll ever meet.
But he wrote an apocalyptic literature.
And of course, yeah, I'm sure that he and,
I mean, I know that he and John Collins
differ on some things and that's actually fine.
I don't think they care.
But he, you know, from a Christian perspective,
he's coming at this and that he wrote a book on
like a general introduction of apocalyptic literature
and he goes through different apocalyptic books
and lays them out.
And he's very clear, the book of Daniel,
this is written in the second century.
Like second century, come on guys, you know.
But what he gives the analogy of someone driving up a mountain
and I've gone up Pikes Peak in a vehicle,
cause I don't think I have the lungs to do it one foot.
But, you know, you go around obviously the outside,
right, as you're going up.
And at least as I remember, that's what you do.
And what he likened it to is the apocalypse,
you know, the time of the end
when everything kind of goes crazy,
is the bottom, is like falling off the cliff, right?
If you were to go over the cliff, you're in the apocalypse.
And every once in a while,
your vehicle comes close to the edge
and it seems like it's gonna go off, right?
Right.
And so you start to see people saying,
the end is coming, like the end is here,
look, we're coming to the edge.
And then God steers the car back.
And I think it's a really excellent analogy.
I don't agree with it, right?
I don't think that's what's happening.
But if you do, if you think God has inspired this text,
I think that's a very good way to think about it.
God's allowing the car to kind of come over,
you get a glimpse of what's coming
and then he steers it back, right?
So you can see these,
and this would account for,
against a theological interpretation,
but it would account for like the Gospels, right?
This generation will not pass away
until all these things take place.
Come and do the edge.
And it's about, okay, only some of the things that, yeah.
But God in His grace, in His mercy, brings the car back,
right?
Again, I don't think there's anything,
not that I'm a logician or something,
but I don't think there's anything contradictory about that.
I don't, I just don't think it's the most...
Yeah, it doesn't make the most sense
in light of so many things to me.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
It makes me interpret God in a strange human way.
So what it is, is it creates, in my opinion,
open theism in its best.
And so now you're stuck with God,
who doesn't really know the future,
or God changes His mind,
but I am not a God that changes His mind,
and He have contradictions on God changing His mind,
or it doesn't change His mind,
or like, or He's a trickster or something.
Something's not adding up, guys.
And so, I get what you're saying, though, to try.
They'll do anything to save face.
I did.
And at the end of the day, I was stuck with the...
I had a dilemma,
and it was definitely not an evidence-based dilemma.
What I mean is the evidence was obvious,
but it was more like,
it was more of a subjective, emotional,
it was divorcing the love of my life.
And I didn't, you know,
our relationship was perfectly fine,
but I found out that she was behind my back
doing all sorts of things I had no clue about,
and I still loved her.
So it was like this really difficult relationship
to break up with, so to speak, with God,
and I didn't know if life was worth living in my head.
You know, like, what's the point if there's no God?
I didn't know how to answer those questions,
and now as a normal human who is just,
I guess I say normal,
because I thought I was special, man.
I was like, you know, I'm unique, I'm chosen, dude.
And now I'm just like, okay, I'm a human being,
like other human beings, I'm gonna die one day,
and there's so many of these religions that draw on us
and tell us to believe theirs is true.
You know, what made mine so special?
So I had to really start to become comfortable
with even asking questions that I knew
could potentially be something against my faith.
And I think probably the best,
the best first step in my subjective opinion,
you know, moving in that direction.
I don't think I've mentioned this to you before, Derek,
but when I was a Christian,
I didn't really get into science,
I'm terrible at science, I'm terrible at math.
So like evolution, those sorts of things,
you know, didn't really bother me primarily
because I didn't know much about them.
But I didn't have to because in my mind,
I had constructed a plausible explanation to me anyway
that dealt with all of these issues.
And it was this, that when God created Adam and Eve,
when they were five seconds old, how old did they look?
I mean, they didn't look five seconds old,
what would that even look like?
They look probably like they were in their 30s, right?
Seems reasonable.
So they look 30 years old, and if you were to, you know,
look at their bodies, doing all tops here or something,
you know, doctor, that is 30 year old male, you know?
But they were only five seconds old.
So God created them with a parent age.
So then the question to me was,
well, if he cut down a tree in the Garden of Eden,
would it have rings?
Well, yeah, because God created the world with a parent age.
So that means that if you dig down in the geological record
and you find billions and billions, you know,
millions of years of this layer or that layer,
it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter.
Because God created it with a parent age.
And that was it.
That's all I needed because how could you prove that wrong?
Maybe there's a way.
I'm not a geologist, but how could you prove that wrong?
Right, because all I could say is it's the same argument
of, yeah, God created us all five minutes ago
and implanted those memories, right?
It's like, how do you disprove that?
I don't know.
The problem is that the first step away from that
is to say, is my solution one that I'm constructing specifically
to escape a problem that would be devastating to my faith.
Am I constructing this?
And is it really reasonable?
Like if I were to ask myself, is it really reasonable
to think that the Earth is the right place
for me to think that I'm the right place for my faith?
reasonable to think that the earth was created with a parent
agent. That explains all this billions of years cosmic wave
radiation background wave radiation, whatever it is. Is
that really reasonable? I mean, and maybe people will still say
yes. But those are the types of things is it really reasonable
to think that even though we have no evidence whatsoever that,
you know, Egypt, repented, the Pharaoh repented and changed his
mind to God's agent Nebuchadnezzar. And that's why he
didn't is it really reasonable to think that that's why that
happens so that you can escape the problem? Or is it better to
think? Maybe I need to rethink my hermeneutical approach. Maybe
the Garden of Eden isn't this literal history that we've, you
know, in turn, we're interpreting it to be maybe
it's actually a piece of literature. Great. So I think
that's a good first step, not necessarily to leave in
Christianity. Yeah, no, no, no, no, 100%. Because it's a it's a
gradient downhill kind of deconstruction. I call it
deconstruction, deconversion. For me, to be fair, I didn't go
from believer to a skeptic in a night. It took me years. And
what what happened for me to give like kind of a general quick,
I started with Jesus, the only way one God, one son through
him's the only way started seeing comparative religion and said,
hold on, there's other guys who die, who are heroes, who are
gods who, you know, they have a pathiosis, they have different
forms of ascension type narratives where they go back to
the Father, go back to the God, whatever. And they're not
identical, none of them are, but they're very similar. And they
have similar natures, if you will, and many respects. And I
started going, hold on. So mine's not unique. And these predate,
you know, like Osiris, for example, was predating the
biblical Jesus narrative. And I'm like, okay, something's up
here. So I start and I mean, the list can go on. And when I saw
that, I said, you know what it is? I know what it is. This is
what helped me. I said, God is bigger than what I thought he
was. Like, this is a bigger God. And it was so much I could take
that leap, even disregarding orthodoxy, disregarding what the
church said, because I could say, look, that they only have part
of the elephant, you know, like there's a big elephant here.
And that's why all these cultures carry very similar
characteristics and said, haha, this is bigger. God, you're so
great. You're so much bigger and better than this. And that's why
I just, I was only getting a piece of you. And it's like kind
of like Baha'i, but it's not had no religious, there's no
religious prophet in this. There's no like I have a chosen
one. It's like I can learn from all of them now. And as I started
to do that, I started running into things. I started going,
okay, hold on, this is very human. This is very, very human.
And I started seeing a naturalistic explanation that fit
better.
And it requires it require the reason that people wrestle
against me so hard on things like the book of Daniel is that as
long as they have a possible explanation for the problem, that's
all they need. Is it possible that when it says that Darius the
mead, you know, was was the ruler? Is it possible that that's
Cyrus? Is it possible that that's Guberu? Is it possible that
there's a Syaxarys the second? Yeah, it's possible. Okay, that's
all I need.
That's it.
As long as it's say that, right, they wouldn't say that. But
that's the reality. Yeah. And what's taking that step away and
saying, Okay, wait a minute, you know, I don't I don't need this
thing to be inerrant in order for God to exist. Then you then
that's gone. You don't need the possible anymore. Now. And then
you wait a minute. You know, make what what makes the most
sense you've left behind that requirement. I want to I want to
say this real quick, please. If I could, anybody out there
that's listening and saying, I don't buy this, this is all just
liberal scholarship. There are three papers that I think you'd
be really wise to read. And I'll look their names up. I mean, I'll
look up the titles, but it's, it's Chris, uh, Robert Chisholm, I
mentioned Robert Chisholms. And the third one is by Thomas
rents. And I can email and see if you want to. Yeah, email. I
think they're all available free online. But Chris odds his
prediction and foreign knowledge in Ezekiel's prophecy
against tire. Robert Chisholm is one I mentioned before. And the
title of that one. And I'll just read real quick. Chris and that's
published in Tyndale Bulletin. Okay, 10 days and evangelical
is in. Here's the summary. In case anybody's Josh is just
quoting liberal scholars. Ezekiel's prophecy that tire would
be destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar was not fulfilled in a manner
predicted by the prophet. This is demonstrated from extra biblical
literature, supported by archaeological evidence and
acknowledged by Ezekiel himself in the later prophecy. As a
result, it is argued that the passage supports a worldview in
which God is sometimes willing to adjust his plan from what he
initially declared. This supports a relational view over the
conventional deterministic view of divine foreknowledge. And it
helps ease the tension between the test of a true prophet and a
true prophet whose prediction is not fully realized. No question
about whether the prophecy didn't come to pass. There's no
question, right? He's just trying to wrestle with how that
happened. This is Chisholm's article is called when prophecy
appears to fail. Check your hermeneutic and I agree with
him. He says here about Ezekiel's prophecy. Nebuchadnezzar did
indeed the siege tire from 585 to 572. But he did not devastate
the city in the manner described by Ezekiel, a fact that is
acknowledged in a prophecy delivered in 571. 29 17 to 18. And
then finally, the last one is by Thomas Rents, proclaiming the
future history and theology and prophecies against tire. So you
know, those, and that's also in Tyndale Bulletin. So it's, it's,
I'm not just quoting, you know, tried to get a leg up. These
liberal scholars, whatever that means. It's always a, it's
that's just a polemic. I mean, I know guys that say the same
thing that I'm constantly seeing them on the Facebook groups and
stuff that I'm involved around that they don't really engage as
much anymore. But and I don't engage them. If they did, I just
don't waste my time. I'm sorry. Like, I love you, brother. Like,
I get it. I got bigger things I'm dealing with at this moment
now, where it's not that I'm saying, Oh, I'm looking down at
you or I'm better. No, it's like, I don't want to keep
rehashing the same thing where you just go, well, you're liberal
scholars, you first of all, if we don't agree with the foundational
in air and infallible word of God, you know, I'm not going to
do that. You know what I mean? And so it's like, I just, I'm
gonna stick to scholarship and do what I'm gonna stay in my
lane and respectfully let them be in there. Like,
Exactly.
That's it. But I am going to explore and pick apart the thing
that had me gripped so much and not pick apart to how I
want to understand it. And for me, because I found so many
natural explanations, could this could some of these things be
real prophecy? Sure. I mean, I'm open to the idea that
predictions can be made and things actually happen, not in
the sense of a supernatural way. I mean, if I told you that I
think that America is probably going to collapse at some point
in the near 100 years, and I was right, would you say that I'm
saying this because God spoke through me or would you say,
Well, damn, look at the news, look at what's going on around
If I prophesied that in if we stay on here another 20 minutes
that my two year old is going to come through the door and say,
Hey, daddy, I want to talk. That's not, that's not a
prophecy. Right. I guess it is. But yeah, I wanted to say, please.
This is the book that I would recommend. If people non
specialists or even specialists that are kind of new to the
biblical studies. This is John Collins books 2018. It's the
third edition introduction to the Hebrew Bible. It's, I can't
say enough good things about it. So he goes through every book of
the Hebrew Bible, and he gives amazing introductions. He talks
about the documentary hypothesis, I say that one, but he talks
about the formation of the Pentateuch. And it's just
it's found it's foundational, I think, for anybody wanting to
get into biblical studies. But excellent work.
I need to pick that up myself. And I guess with that being
said, we can wave by the tire. And we need to have a collab with
you and Professor Collins. So Professor Bowen and Professor
Collins together on a show. What would you guys say to that? I
mean, I think that would be, I think that would be an amazing
show. Don't you just don't think you need me? You know, it's
like, it's like, you know what, we're going to have Mike Tyson
and Josh box, you know, Roy Joe. You don't need me. Yeah, you
don't need me. Why don't you co host with me on the show? It's
almost like, this is how I look at it. It's almost like I'm
eating a big old plate of dinner. And, you know, sure, I
could eat the whole thing. I'm hungry enough that I could and
he's definitely a great cook. He's bringing plenty of food.
But you're my brother, like it's me. And I'll be honest, though,
really, I love communication. I'm a big fan of people talking.
And I know you've done a show with him. But I know how much he
is valuable to you. And how valuable he is to you mean
something to me. Like I do care. And I honestly would love to
see it, especially, I don't think he's figured out eternal life
yet. And so I don't know how much longer he's going to be alive
on planet Earth, where we get to value and make history happen
here on the show. And I want you to be a part of that because I
value your friendship and I value your scholarship and what
you do and taking the time to come on and join me. Like I
seriously do and I mean that I'm not just saying that I mean
that as much as a Christian says they really care about your
soul when they try to preach Jesus. I mean, they really do
care even if they have a distorted angle. They really do
love you and care. So that's how I think about you, man. So
I appreciate that. I'd love to. Absolutely. You can help co
host if that makes you feel any better. I'll ask interesting
questions. I think that will be because I'll read it and I'll
have certain questions, but I know you do and let's do it.
You're
I am a prophet. My lord and my god. Can you say can you say
can you say can you say can you say what can we say? I don't
know what we can say. Look at that hair. Wow to a bogey.
Say. Thank you. Thank you.
All right. Can you say.
Awesome. Yeah, hit the what's his name? This is Oliver. Oh,
Huggies. Oliver. Hey, buddy. Bye bye. Bye bye. He's gonna be
famous. Everyone's gonna be like I need.
That is I love you. You're definitely a prophet, bro. You
you spoke well, we need to start a movement. You know, how
much should we ask for tide though? I think 10% we'd be like,
I don't know how well we do. We might need to say eight. There's
two percent less. We're competing with Lord Rael. So if
you don't know who that is, you should look him up. I should.
Yes, definitely. I had a I had a debate on the non sequitur
show and it was still a thing with one of his spokes people,
his main spokesperson. So yeah, look that up. Very interesting.
Lord Rael R A Y E L. I think they're down in Baha.
Oh, is that a Baha thing? No, this is a Christianity means
ancient aliens. What? Oh, it's bad to bone. Dude, we gotta get
some. Oh my gosh, we gotta do something on that. Are you well
first in this? You know this as much as anybody should be.
Okay, then we gotta do a show on this. When you have time,
you just let me know and I promise you I will make the
time for you, brother. Copy that. So with that being said,
thank you for joining me and don't forget, ladies and
gentlemen, we are myth vision.
