Professor Francesca Stavrakapulu joins again those who want to meet God face to face.
Why is that? Is there a natural evolutionary reason for why humans want to look and find faces
in many things, whether it's your cup of tea in the foam at the top looks like a face or
you cut a tree stump in the in the rings. It looks like Jesus's face or Jesus's face appears
on toast right or in the clouds. There seems to be a natural reason. Faces are so important
and I think there is and science backs that up. However, people want to meet God face to face.
Does this have anything to do with the idea of the Jericho's skull? This is her week so I hope
that everybody will go get her book show her appreciation for her brilliance and for the
wonderful scholarship that she has done. Okay, so there's this really old face.
Nine and a half thousand years ago worshipers most desired to be face to face with God, right?
In the Bible we talk about it. Moses just wants to be face to face and he actually is face to face
with God in one account. And then you know there's even this hint weird hint in the New Testament.
Martian seemed to reflect when he says like Jesus said that no one has seen God except him. So how
is Moses seeing God if he's saying that no one has? So you kind of wonder if Martianism has some
leg up in the New Testament. I don't know. I'll leave that up for you guys to debate. Point is
everyone wants to be face to face with God but they're also terrified at what might become of this.
So you mentioned this concept of the Jericho's skull that's nine and a half thousand years old.
Possibly older. Do you think this stems from that far back? I mean we're talking about
Glabecky Tepe kind of. Yeah, I don't. Yeah, when I'm talking about the Jericho's skull,
so this is like Neolithic, this object. And you know just and I'm sure like your viewers will
know but these are these plastered skulls that we find. So somebody went head modification when
they were a child, when they were born, I think they were selected for this process. When they
were born they had their heads bound and you know then lived normal life and whenever they died in
adulthood buried under the floors of their homes which was a normal kind of process then
in those particular Neolithic cultures. Sometime not too too long after the body is exhumed,
the head is removed, the remnants of the flesh and skin scraped away and then the face is reshaped
with clay and then painted you know sort of is rubbed shiny, it's kind of given a red pigment
or hue, some have little moustaches painted on them, some have kind of like these wigs of like
rush hair and I mean they're really super cool but they but these heads sit up on their own,
they're kind of reshaped and remolded of the plaster to sit up on their own. Like the way
they sit up in museum cabinets today, they just kind of sit there. And it's a way of creating
another worldly being and I use this example of the Jericho's skull in my book to talk about
the ways in which even without talking, without touching, it's that sense of being face to face
with another being, even an other worldly being as the Jericho skulls are meant to represent and
you know we don't know whether they were ancestors or gods. I don't think they are either, I think
they are just some kind of other worldly being because these faces were remade and reshaped
several times over for almost like different ritual purposes but it's that sense of coming
face to face with the other worldly and that's what that really kind of represents. So like
then it's not directly related to what we have going on in biblical traditions but it's that same
sense of just how important faces are. That's why we see faces wherever we go. Do you know what I mean?
You see faces in the clouds, in the shape of clouds, whatever. It's because we are, I think we're
built as humans to see other social beings and to recognize them. It's like why we're fonder of
animals that have faces that are a little bit like ours rather than you know eyes around here and
even that nose is down here. It's a good point like it's like a proto-evolutionary explanation
of what ended up creating what we ended up believing about things. Yeah, I mean some cognitive
science of religion scholars who kind of look at the ways in which certain kinds of patterns or
tropes of behavior are very much bound up with our evolutionary cognitive genetics and development
and context and they would argue that yeah that that it's a basic kind of human premise to imagine
our gods as like us basically.
