Felt prophecies versus full preterism. Felt prophecies, Jesus predicted the end would
come. The resurrection was coming. The apocalypse was coming. The end of the age, world was
coming. All these things were predicted and they were supposed to happen. Full preterism
teaches they did happen. The way the Church has defined these things for so long, according
to full preterism, is wrong. But you be the judge of that. And don't forget to like and
subscribe. Your host, Derek Lambert.
We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Your host, Derek Lambert. I have
a special guest with me today, David King. What's up, my brother?
What's up, brother?
So for everybody who's watching, I've actually been in interaction with David King over the
past few years. And I've mentioned a couple of times on this program what full preterism
is. To make this short, sweet and simple, and I'm going to let him talk, you have Bart
Ehrman and other scholars, Dr. Bart Ehrman and other scholars who say, hey, even Dr.
Price, you know, these are failed prophecies. They did not happen. So Christians, usually,
who've left the faith, like Bertrand Russell, said Jesus promised he didn't keep his word.
I can't believe in him. He's not the truth. And they leave the faith. Well, full preterist
rationalize the text and say, hey, this text gives clear indication something was supposed
to happen. I think everybody, to some extent, agrees something was supposed to happen. But
it's almost like Christians have come with an agenda to try and make sure it didn't happen
then so that they can keep their Kool-Aid and cracker for Sunday. You know, that's just
my opinion. But David, do you want to add something to that? Because you're going to
be giving them a little bit of something you've done on the term at hand.
Right. So what is full preterism? So the word eschatology would be the study of in-time prophecies,
like in the New Testament, some people believe in the Old Testament. And so full preterism is
a branch of that. It's like, so there's four different versions of eschatology.
This may get super nerdy and boring, but full full preterism is the one that says
that it was all fulfilled in the first century to the people, the books were actually written to.
So that's, it's a stance of the prophecies, the in-time prophecies. And so Bart Ehrman,
where he would sit on that, a lot of, I know a lot of your viewers would know of his theories,
where he would sit on that was, yes, it was written to a first century audience.
These events were supposed to happen to them, but the prophecies failed. You would have full
preterism and then Ehrman's theory going side by side. The full preterism says, you know what?
No, they didn't fail. It's actually, it's like a believing stance. A lot of believers will say
I'm a full preterist. So a lot of what I'm teaching, what I'll be teaching in this video
is to believers. So it's from a stance as a believer. I'm not a believer. I'm,
I'm not sure what I am right now, but I'm no longer a Christian. So to match the theme of myth
vision, if the full preterism stance is true, then it would say, it can say like that. I'm also a
version called Israel only full preterism, which means that it was about the 12 tribes, even Paul's
audience. If that is the case, it could support the myth theory really well because it says that
there's a the end on the book in the first century and it disqualifies the early church as valid.
So when you hear Dr. Price and Bart Ehrman speak of the early church redefining terms
and being different from what the New Testament texts say, this all fits right in with that and
it supports that. So yeah, what is full preterism? It's just a way of looking at the New Testament
texts, the prophecies, applying audience relevance and time statements. That's what my, this lesson
is gonna be about like at hands soon, nearly about to those kinds of time statements. He
realized that speaking to them is not speaking to us and that they were actually going through
very real events. Now, whether the texts were written after the fact, you know, which makes
sense or if it was written before, if it was written after the fact, it was written about the
events leading up to the destruction of Jerusalem was written about those events. And that's where
you get answers like, you know, what is hell? What kind of judgment were they going through? What
is a judgment? You know, you get all your answers understanding that. So full preterism answers
those kinds of questions. Interesting. It is a methodology. I've, I've gone out saying clearly
I've mentioned this because what I've done now that I'm a host on myth vision and I've learned a
lot from a different, from different perspectives is I like to put in a bag a bunch of different
perspectives and methodologies and have them communicate, which is what I'm actually doing
here on this program is bringing guys from all sorts of angles. You know, this is not a pro
Bible pro Jesus pro any of that type of stuff type of program. However, we are open to alternate
ideas like if Jesus is a celestial myth, if this is a astrotheology, is this is this full
preterism is it Israel only is it, you know, in all the different spectrums of thought.
And this all goes down to also how we define terms. I mean, man, you can't get a scholar,
even a critical scholar who's a non-believer to agree with another critical scholar who's a
non-believer about certain things. So it's like, okay, this is why I want to bring the scholars in,
because at least they can look at stuff, break down terms, get a grasp on syntax,
understand language, and try and bring something to the table. Problem is, David, I know you agree
with me on this is that too often these scholars have been, I guess you'd say they've had so many
stones thrown at them by the Christian church. And that system of thought that they've put
all their exhausted energy into this giant massive downhill tumble of dung and the ideas that have
come with it, that they're not realizing, look, just let that ball roll by, let's just go as
much into primitive Christianity as possible, disregard the church that's really produced
all this content and see what may be at the base. Now, I know that a lot of times they'll say, well,
look, there may be some validity to how these churches thought. I want to test these things,
man. This is what I really want to do. I went on record recently on the show,
trying to ask the question, do you think this is to Rabbi Tovia Singer? Awesome show, really cool
guy, man. I really, one day when I go to Israel, like, I want him to show me, I want to go and
check out the spots and stuff. He's actually a cool guy to talk to. I was asking him, do you
think these Gentiles in the New Testament are getting salvation? I never meant Pontius Pilate,
never meant that, so to speak. Now, one can conclude going further, maybe there's something there when
Paul's writing to the household of Caesar, and he's saying, hey, greetings to the household of Caesar
in the book of Romans and other places. It's like, why are you greeting Caesar? Regardless of that,
I'm talking Acts 17. I'm talking to these churches that are supposedly pagans that all
scholarships saying, yeah, there's probably a mixed multitude here, but there's real outsiders
that have nothing to do with Israel in this bunch. I got some feedback from a few guys
that commented and were like, no, I didn't get all that out. I didn't get everything I just said
here out. Like, hey, do you think Cornelius could have been an Israelite? Do you think there's,
like he could have been some lost tribe, Israelite or something? Didn't get that far. I wonder if
Rabbi does know about the theory to some extent, because he probably deals with Hebrew, Israelite
onlyist and the Caucasian versions of Israelite onlyist and stuff. What are they called?
I don't even know, man. I would want to look through that before I speak it to know that
it's accurate. Black Hebrew Israelites is a big one, and then there's so many different versions
of it. You've got like a Western version that disagrees with everybody else. Yeah, there are
many versions of that of those streams. The arguments are powerful because they understand
two house theology, which I believe you can't understand the Bible without that. Most Christians
never realized that even exists until they get into higher learning of some source and kind of
this. And this is just for our audience. Correct me if I'm wrong. This is northern and southern
Israel. Two house theology is the idea that there's a division in Israel, the northern 10 tribes,
and the two southern tribes, which really, you really see Judah be the survivor, so to speak,
tribe and even critical scholars who don't even agree with this theory or even any theory really
about Christianity or anything. They admit that historically speaking, when all this crap went
down in history, and some might differ on this, but from what I've been told, 11 of the 12 tribes
got like their asses handed to them, and that only one actually made it, and this was Judah.
And that maybe there's somehow out there, I guess you could say, maybe there was this weird
conspiracy theory even amongst themselves that our people are somewhere in the mix of all these
people, and I don't know. Yeah, two house theology is about the split northern kingdom,
southern kingdom. And then you'll start noticing phrases like house of Israel and the house of
Judah. You know, the house of Israel is speaking of the northern tribes, house of Judah, the southern.
And then you see promises being made to both. You see the northern tribes, they're spoken also as
Ephraim, the phrase Ephraim or a Jacob, you know, you hear that. So there's other words used for
them as well, but there's this story in the Bible where they get divorced, they go out through the
idols, they get divorced, and then modern scholars teach that they were lost in time, but you see
the New Testament people speaking to them. You'll see 1 Peter 11, you'll see James speaking to them.
So what's going on? They're speaking to them as though they exist, the rabbi that was on recently.
Some of the arguments that he pitched forward, Matthew 10 and stuff like that, that stuff that
I.O. gets every day. When we speak about I.O., we get that case every day. But I'll leave this out
there. You've got James, you've got Peter writing to them, blatantly writing to them as though they
exist and they're present during that time. And then in Revelation 7, a lot of people,
a lot of scholarship believes that the 144,000, which just meant remnant of the 12 tribes,
that's what that meant, 144,000. It's not a literal number. So when you get that, it's a symbolic
number. It matches the dimensions of the New Jerusalem and such. And those are all symbolic
numbers. That and then the great multitude that's mentioned after, those are the same group. Those
are not two separate groups. So once you figure that out, that the end of the story has only a
remnant from the 12 tribes going to heaven, right? If you want a symbolic imagery or literal heaven,
that that's the end of the story. And then there's the end in the first century. To me, that's a
home run for Israel only, full preterism. It kind of proves it. Once you're able to iron that out,
people get hung up on where it says, you know, the numbers it uses that can't be numbered or
I forgot how the phrase goes. I have to look at the sea and the whole. Yeah, I get what you're
talking about in the nations and tribes and tongues and kindreds and. Yeah. And those phrases
are always used in the Old Testament to speak of the 12 tribes and then being scattered and such.
Those phrases are used for them. Those are their phrases. That's why the great multitude is being
described that way. A multitude of nations. Ephraim was promised to become a multitude of
nations, a great multitude. So all that stuff adds up. So, so a couple thoughts on that. Just,
just to poke in a little bit. When they date Revelation to 96 AD, and they are saying, hey,
this is a late document. Okay. Does Israel only have to stick within the 70 AD framework? Or could
it be somewhere around that time? But this 2000 year bullshit has got to stop. I mean, like, let's
admit that that notion of somehow one day down the road where we're at, that it's going to happen,
right? I mean, if it didn't already happen, it's not going to happen. And if it has happened,
it's probably not correctly understood to have happened the way people think it's supposed to
happen, correct? Right. So the stance on that, and there's really not an IO stance on that,
because IO is not really about that. It's not really about textual criticism and such. It's
about what does the story actually say and who is it spoken to? So that's what IO is standing for.
So that's why you would have so many different versions of IO. You have atheist IO, and you
would have full, you know, hardcore believer IO. I mean, if it was written in 95, it was written
about the events leading up to 8070, it was written as though it was written before then. That's how
all that would line up. If it was written before 8070, you know, that gives it more credibility.
It's written about the events leading up to it. Obviously, you know, you know, my stance, you
know, myth vision, I'm such a sketch, bro. Yeah, look, just show me, you know, I'm Thomas, okay,
like he didn't yell at Thomas, okay, he didn't scream at him to say, you dumbass, why didn't you
just believe me? No, just show yourself, prove it, okay, make sure I'm not on dimethyl tryptamine
or tripping on mushrooms when this happens. And I might, I might go get my mental health checked
real quick before I. Yeah, a lot of people get thrown off because it uses phrases like cosmos
and world and, you know, those who dwell on the earth, you know, earth and stuff like that and
land, right? It's a land. Exactly. When you go into it's gay, I think GE, when you go to the S of
land, it's called talks about those who dwell on the earth, it could be talking about those in
Palestine, because it's those who dwell in the land, the promised land, you know, so, so those
phrases you started learning that those are actually very small contexts, they're not global
contexts. The partial preterists are brilliant at discovering that the full preterists are usually
your more advanced versions, they not only discovered it, but they see it elsewhere and they
take it to its full implication. I believe, I believe it's impossible to get out of full preterism if
you're going to give any credibility to the Bible at all. I feel like that it's a no-brainer
and that, again, whenever you hear the early church father speaking as though they don't know
what they're talking about, they argued about the dumbest things that had nothing to do with them.
So the mosaic covenant, the mosaic law, even in Ten Commandments as part of the mosaic law,
all of that stuff was only given to old covenant Israel. It was part of a vassal covenant between
Yahweh and them and it involves nobody else, right? For them to be arguing about, you know,
should we circumcise, should we do all these other things, they're arguing about like how much of the
law to keep and such? Well, if they were actually connected to an apostle, an actual person of the
story they knew what they were talking about, they would not be arguing about that kind of stuff.
If you were to discover a text and plug yourself into it and not have real discipleship or teaching,
you would sound like the early church fathers. Do you think that when Rome conquered that they
adopted this text, winners write history, or the idea that winners are own history,
they may not have written some of this stuff. They played with the text, you're clearly studying
that now, you're writing books on this stuff, you know, you're gonna touch on this and the
Trinity, these concepts that have been probably interpolated and stuff. Do you think that that
might be why they took it? Is they conquered people because they were known to do that before
when they'd conquer four nations, four in gods, they adopted their gods. They took these people's
gods and brought themselves. Now, I asked that because one of my objections at this moment,
and I'm pretty open about like where I'm at in my journey, you know, on the show, is that, and then
this varies among IO, once again, Israel only for those watching, is that outsiders cannot have
native born kids join and be part of the covenants. And I've looked at a few of these verses and I'm
like, that sounds like foreigners can come in, but their children will then have to become, but
technically what that means is that doesn't mean Israel becomes outer. Okay, that means you literally
have to become Israel to even have this wrapped around. Does that make sense? So I'm not saying
like, Hey, let's bring in, we're going to give Torah to the whole world. Everybody's going to
follow the law of Moses. Okay, it's the idea that that you're going to come in to covenant with it,
or you're not part of it. And to me, that's where I kind of like agree with Dikasta on this, based
off these verses. And I know why IO disagrees in other areas. I think Ezekiel 47, you'll see some
of it there. And then Isaiah, maybe 56 or something, you'll see some stuff there too. Do you think
there's contradictions in the old time? Because I know you're different than most and you'll say,
yes, there's contradictions in the Bible. You know what I mean? Like you're like, dude, it's there.
But do you think that maybe there's one teaching that gives the idea and then another that doesn't?
And it's like, Well, so this is my point. This is not an IO stance. So this is just, it's not an
IO topic. It is, but what am I about to say? I haven't heard any other IO people super like this.
But so Ezra and Emiah, after the exile, when they were returning, I believe that they believed
that the reason that they had suffered is because they have all these non-Israelite people in their
family circles and such. So they were about purging the 12 tribes, or at least they kept
that return for the Second Temple period, which would have just been Judah, you know,
that return for that. There's theories out there that it's just a Levite. So Ezra and Emiah,
they're saying, you know, we need a purge of everybody that's not 12 tribe. You know, if your
wife, your kids, you know, that are not 12 tribe, get rid of them, you know? And that's one point of
view. And another point of view, I believe that they were conflicting authors and that Isaiah or
Ezekiel, I need to study really more on this before becoming an authority in it. But I believe
that they were conflicting point of views. Yeah, no, that's cool. I mean, because we'll always bring
this up further and down the road. I love this idea. I really do. I really do. Because it just
sees an evolution of thought because you find, God knows, look at what it's done in history,
bro. And I mean, if people knew, hey, guys, there's a tribal deity called El, and there's a tribal
deity that, see, you've got Elion, and you've got Yahweh. And literally in the Canaanite religion,
there are two different entities. Here you have, and this is interesting, my buddy, I have to
leave him unnamed until you can tell me I can name him. Because like, I'm very like, I'll talk to
somebody like, please, I'm not ready to go public. And I'm just like, okay, whatever, tell me what
you got. And he's like, look, the bottom line is Northern and Southern Israel had two different
names and identities for their God. And it is this idea that attaches itself to the documentary
hypothesis. But this is why you'll see El Elion. And this is why you'll see Yahweh. And you'll see
both being used. Yeah, El and then Yahweh. And it's like, this is not necessarily the same exact
guys using the same. But of course, this is an evolution of thought. And today, I suspect people
say, Oh, this is the same, we just called God this, and it's the same thing, depends on what you,
what you believe, I guess, in terms of this. My, yeah, my first exposure to JDP theory was through
a book called Who Wrote the Bible? I would recommend that if you want to go deeper into that. But
so that would be a foundational exposure to it. And then there's been a lot of work done after
that book was written to, you know, give further credit, discredit, evolve the theory into more,
you know, writers that yeah, we're out of my comfort zone when it comes to that. But I've had
some I'm just talking, you know, yeah, I get it. I know. And no, dude, if you guys, please,
I'm going to say this up front. Make sure you go subscribe to David's, David's YouTube channel.
Okay. It's DK, DK channel, right? DK's channel. Yeah. So my name is David King. I just put DK
on a lot of stuff. DK channel. And that that channel. So my current, I'm currently left
religion, like over the last two years. And so most of my new content for that channel will be
atheists, apologetics, just unpacking like morality. And like, I now believe that secular
morality is more advanced than religious morality. So I'm going to explain those kinds of concepts.
So that that channel is about that. If you would like Israel only information, there's actually
YouTube channel called Israel only information, you know, you can look that up. There's a guy
named Ryan McKittrick that has a channel called all prophecy fulfilled. So you can see a lot of
full preterism content there and Israel only. So if you want to see the arguments of how
Cornelius could have been in Israelite, he's got a series on that. And it's really good. It's
actually the series is in right now. And then if you want more full preterism content, just strictly
full preterism, it'll be coming from the viewpoint as a believer, revelation refilled sending that
channel. This lesson is attached to our interview here at hand time statements is going on that
channel eventually. So okay, yeah, I like that you don't close off discussion with with others.
However, I know where you stand like you're kind of agnostic and I'm not trying to say what you
are by putting a label, but you don't know and you're not going to act like you do. And then
of course, you open up the door for all the other people. Oh, you're what? You're technically by
definition. That means shut up, dude. So I really enjoyed this discussion because I think so much
can be said, where I'm at today is I'm not certain all 27 books were teaching the same doctrine,
but I am obviously clearly seeing that first Peter James are directly addressing this idea that kind
of ties into some of the stuff I was explaining off air here earlier about the documentary hypothesis
and you have the the different versions of the Hebrew scriptures from the Greek version that's
copied the Masoretic to the Masoretic to the Samaritan Pentateute and the OG original Greek
LXX and and all these different books carry different sects of Judaism. And you got to go,
what the hell's going on, man? By the time you get in the New Testament, they're still talking
about it. Is this there's a reason that's being mentioned. I think that there were different
sects of Christianity. I'm keeping my mind open to personally keeping my mind open to why
certain versions of Christianity might have taken over, which allowed people who were non-Israelites
in and they evolved. It wasn't the most original, though, in my opinion, the most original Christ
ologies in Christianity were Jewish to the fricking core. And there's an evolution and
certain kinds of Christianity started to win. Now, whether that's political and Rome said, hey,
let's kind of allow this to have more favor so that we can get rid of these nutcases,
nutjobs who are trying to attack us in 66 AD for the sake of argument or something. I don't know.
Just just throwing it out there that you could take something that makes absolutely no sense for you
and somehow incorporate yourself into it. I don't fricking know, David. This is why I do what I do,
man. Yeah. On that topic, sexual criticism, I've got some content I can hook you up with from Yale
and the way that they can find out who wrote what, the way they can predict who wrote what,
or they can take a list of what this author of this one book believes. These are their
doctrinal stances and then they'll find it and they'll list them all out and they'll find out
that they don't agree. So when it comes to the Paul of the 14 books that are attributed to him
in mainstream Christianity, maybe 13, 14. I'll say 14 and just add Hebrews. Yeah, in mainstream.
Seven are left out of those 14. I'm adding Hebrews. Seven are left with a common voice. So then you've
got like, I don't know, Colossians and there's another one, maybe Ephesians with its own voice.
And then you've got the pastoral books. There's three of those, Titus, First and Second Timothy,
which I believe were written much later, like second century just outside of the
story, because they're arguing about things that have nothing to do with the rest of the text.
To me, it's totally, it's like foreign, it shouldn't even be in there, you know,
and then it attributes to itself. So stuff like that. Textual criticism, they can compare. So
I'll give you this Yale series and anybody else wants to leave a comment below. It's a free YouTube
video series from Yale. Check it out. Can't beat it, man. Can't beat it. So David, you're producing
a lot of content or you're going to start producing a lot of content on DK's channel.
You have any contact, a way for people to contact you if they want to reach out just to discuss this
theory more. So I've got an Instagram, David King, 588, but it's almost just a straight up atheist
Instagram. A lot of stuff that I post. It's just my journey out of religion. So if you're into that,
you'll dig that Instagram. You can reach me through that. And then I don't know how much
more I want to give right now. So that I have a Patreon, you can reach me there.
And I've set a certain level up to where you can have just, you know, just instant access,
because it takes a lot when you have a lot of people asking you advanced questions.
So I mean, I've got a blog site that I, it's kind of a rough draft blog site. I'll write something
now and then this did it again a year later and refine the information. So that doesn't mean
everything's always accurate. You also have Facebook groups. And right now you've been completely
blacklisted for dumb reasons. And you're like, you're like Jesus Christ, bro. Like, I hate
to say it. I just got to call it out, man. You persecuted for my name's sake. I mean,
by your stripes, we are healed brother. And look, you're now in the underworld at this moment,
but I believe I believe in a resurrection. You better. If this ever happens again,
a second coming of David King, I mean, I don't know for image, where are we at in this? Are you
right now? We're at a third coming. There are multiple comings. Oh man. Hey, go check him out.
He's got Israel only groups on Facebook. All you got to do is search them in the top. And a lot of
you guys who've like talked with me that aren't into this, I add you guys to some of these rooms,
right? I haven't added you to all of them. And I haven't really spent enough time. I just recently
had a peak interest in really trying to solve the mystery, the puzzle. Are we like really confused
on what's going on? Well, maybe. So I wanted to add some really smart guys, I noticed some of these
groups. And David King has spent quite a lot of time compiling information and like putting a like
an information, like all this stuff together. So you guys can at least clearly see what what they
say. And I would honestly say to anyone who's going to be intelligent about this discussion and
not come at this biased, in my opinion, David, especially those who are going to be skeptical
of the position, I would handle definitions, I would I would define terms, I would come at it
from a term point of view, if there are issues and try to see at least give it a shot, right?
So you got to test something, but you also want to critique in the process. And that's how science
does things and gives the best guess. My guess at this moment, I'm predicting, I don't know,
because I'm not scholarly in any way, shape or form, I might read a book every other month,
you know, and, and then I do a lot of absorbing through audio and video, but and then communicating
through phone and all. But my best guess would be some of these texts may not, like you said,
they might have been written much later. And then some of them, there might be a core that's
and then some crap happened to it. And that would be my guess. I just very much doubt that
little children passed through 2000 years of priest and didn't get molested. Please go subscribe
to his channel, guys. Let's help David grow. He's a good friend of mine. He really is. And,
you know, he's been an inspiration. He's someone I can run to that knows Israel only inside and out
and doesn't get heated. He just he's what I love about him is like, even if I'm wrong, like,
what the hell do I have to lose? Like at this point of deconstructed hell's not real, which he
does a lot on hell. Beyond the lookout, he's going to be talking to Dr. Price. They're going to be
doing something because I'm going to set that shit up. And I'm going to make sure that you've
got this. Hell is going to be an awesome show. And I can't wait for you to also explain what
you found and maybe toss that in the mix when you guys are on that. That'll be very
well. Thanks. Let's let's get into this lecture that you're going to teach us about at hand.
And keep in mind, when you hear this, he's talking to believers. You even make a few
comments in there about, well, you know, believing scholars say, you know,
yeah, I think it's great. I think this was a good one. And we need to bring more bring more
to the table because at hand, it's just like that much of anything a full preterist has ever
delved into material wise. That's just like two words. It's like, you know, English words. The
worst position, though, that I've heard trying to come back at this stuff is what's the scatological
view that things repeat same over and over. And it's idealism. And I think that's like a rebuttal.
I think idealism is trying to make sense why Jesus why, and I know there's full preterist
idealist, but I'm saying idealism that the eschatological view is like trying to fix the
problems. They're trying to make sense of why things are problems. Yeah. So the way I understand
idealism is it can be and mean anything. And you don't need patterns. You don't need the
Old Testament to tell you what it means. Like, I have a hard time honoring and respecting the
concepts where your foundation is that this is true and this is this. And, and, you know,
the God must be a good God. So all this harshness must mean other things. It must mean, you know,
left brain and right brain and my third eye and, you know, the chakras in just any kind
of new age, whatever, and consciousness. And those are the words you hear over and over in my
exposure to idealism. So I just have a hard time, you know, paying attention to it.
Or like the seven churches which are in Asia are the seven chakras or they're like, you know,
this is seven ages or the seven days in which creation like they come up with the most like
I have never. And now, dude, I'm not closed off to their maybe mysticism or some form of like
maybe even like a Markovah type mystic type interpretation of things. I mean, Paul comes
on the scene talking about the third heaven. I've never heard that in the Old Testament,
right? So there might be some mystery school stuff. But I don't think the seven churches
which are in Asia are necessarily saying that if there's something there, I'm yet to uncover
these things. But yeah, I don't think that they knew anything about. I don't know when third eye
theory came out, but a lot of what we have today, what we understand about science, those terms
and understandings were just not available during that time. So to say that they had a supernatural
inspiration and that's what they were talking about. I think that I don't think anybody in that
era would have even, it wouldn't have been on their map, you know what I'm saying? Those kinds
of questions. Yeah, that's that's my theory of idealism. I just feel like it's a waste of time.
It's my opinion on that. Unless you like to make stuff whatever's comfy to you and fuzzy-wuzzy is
like I call, you know, or you want to start a cult and control people and tell them that they
can't understand a text unless they're thinking you, you know, and get it from you. That's that's
when I would use idealism. So we might need to talk business when we get off of here, brother.
Well, I appreciate you joining me, man. And we definitely have this good 20 minute video. I think
it's 15 to 20 minutes, something like that. It's about 20 minutes. Yeah, yeah, this is good.
So be sure to check it out because this show is at hand. And, you know, I hope you guys like this
and comment because we want to hear your thoughts about the theory. We want to hear your thoughts
about what you think about it, the text. If you have issues with it, and you come at us as a
fundamentalist, we probably won't even respond. But if you do have some actual weighted evidence
on why you have criticisms, please bring those to the table. I'm interested in hearing what you
have to say. And with that, David, we will have you back for sure. Because I really appreciate
you, man. I really do seriously. You've been you've been a safeguard for me when I'm losing my
shit. And I need to talk theology or just talk about something crazy. I can call you you really
vent to me or I vent to you really like 90% of the conversations really me all the time. And I
hate doing that to you. But you've been patient, man. So with that, everybody give me a round of
applause. Let's do this. All right, brother. Talk to you next time. All right. See you.
That so at hand some of the etymology of the word like today we use it to mean focus on the task
at hand, the immediate task. It's what you're immediately focused on. But as far as like the
change between the first century since today, I don't know. But I know that biblically, it meant
something totally different. So in biblical context, the phrase was used to describe a soon
coming event. So this is Old Testament and New Testament. And so it was always speaking of
something that was soon to come very near at arms length at hand. So note in these examples,
how all of these are speaking of soon to happen events. So Matthew 26 18 you've got Jesus said
his time to be crucified was at hand. Jesus speaking about Judas his betrayer fulfilling
an event that was to happen soon. It was at hands Matthew 26 46 John 7 to John said the Jews
feast of booths was at hand. And it was an event that was soon to happen for them. So the next he
said go into the city of a certain man and say to him the teacher says my time is at hand. So
Matthew 26 18. This was an eminency statement. Something was soon to happen. Then he came to
his disciples and said to them sleep and take your rest later on. See the hour is at hand. The son
of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners Matthew 26 45. So these are all eminency statements.
These were soon to happen statements. Let's cruise through some Old Testament examples. And then
once we get to the New Testament it gets super interesting. It's going to be quirky if you
haven't heard it before. Alright Jeremiah here was speaking of Moab's soon to happen destruction
that some scholars believe took place 23 years after the prophecy was given. These are believing
scholars that would say this the fall of Moab is at hand. Her calamity will come quickly. Jeremiah
48 16. Hosea here was writing to the northern kingdom about their soon coming invasion from
the Assyrians in 721 BC. The days of punishment are coming. The days of reckoning are at hand.
Let Israel know this because your sins are so many and your hostility so great. The prophet is
considered a fool and the inspired person a maniac. Hosea 9 7. So these are all eminency
statements. Joel here was writing to the southern kingdom Judah about their soon coming invasion
in 586 BC. Below the trumpet in Zion sound the alarm on my holy hill. Let all who live in the
land tremble for the day of the Lord is coming. It is close at hand. Joel 2 1. A day of the Lord
was a climatic event sanctioned by Yahweh to judge a nation. So usually it was one army invading a
people. Most times day of the Lord was used to describe an outside army coming into invade Israel.
There are days of the Lord in the Old Testament. People that try to say that if it says day of
the Lord is only speaking of one climatic event at the end of time you know in our future they
don't know their Old Testament. Okay so Isaiah here was speaking of Babylon's soon coming invasion
from the Persians in 539 BC. Hyenas will inhabit her strongholds. Jackals her luxurious places.
Her time is at hand and her days will not be prolonged. Isaiah 13 22. So as Isaiah is writing
about something that was soon to happen to them in Isaiah 14 you've got the whole taunt to Nebuchadnezzar
and the fluke of people putting the word Lucifer there. That'll be another audio as well. That whole
chapter Isaiah 14 was about the fall of Nebuchadnezzar. Now here's where the phrase gets super
interesting. So we're going to go into the New Testament now. John the Baptist said to an old
covenant Israel audience to repent for the kingdom of heaven slash God. It's the same thing kingdom
of heaven and kingdom of God was at hand. So we got Matthew 3 2 Matthew 4 17 Mark 1 15. Matthew used
to phrase kingdom of heaven. Mark used to phrase kingdom of God but it was the same phrase. They
made the same things. You can look at these three verses and see that John the Baptist is talking
about the same exact events and they're getting quoted in two different ways to prove that. But
it was used to speak about the New Covenant and what was coming to Israel in the first century.
Peter said the end of all things. This is weird. So Peter said the end of all things was at hands
there in the first century. So the end of all things is at hands therefore be self-controlled
and sub reminded for the sake of your prayers. 1 Peter 4 7. At hand was a phrase that was always
speaking of an event that was soon to happen to the original audience and Peter is using it to speak
of the end of all things. So let's go on to see what Peter is talking about. We'll see that
in a minute. We'll get to that point here in a minute. So we start with John the Baptist telling
Old Covenant Israel to repent for their sins committed against the first covenant. You can see
that in Hebrews 9 15. To prepare for the kingdom of the New Covenant. The kingdom of heaven as quoted
by Matthew. Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 3 2. Afterwards you see John the
Baptist is put into prison and then Jesus starts to proclaim the same message. From that time Jesus
began to preach saying repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 4 17. Okay so Jesus
then creates disciples to reach the people of Israel who needed to know about the soon coming
final judgment of the Old Covenant and the soon ushering in of the New Covenant. Verse Matthew
10 6. Go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel and proclaim as you go saying the kingdom
of heaven is at hand. So it's the soon coming thing. They were supposed to understand what this
meant. Okay so now let's look at what the texts say about Jesus's second coming. The coming of the
Lord that was at hand. So they're both the same phrase. Coming of the Lord second coming is talking
about the same event. Be patient therefore brothers until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer
waits for the precious fruit of the earth being patient about it until it receives the early
and late rains. You also be patient. Establish your hearts for the coming of the Lord is at hand.
James 5 7. So James whoever the writer of James was uses the phrase at hand which is the eminency
statement and it's saying the coming of the Lord was at hand and he's saying this with a first
century audience. Who is James speaking to? This is interesting. Who is James speaking to? James 1
and it says James a servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ to the 12 tribes in the dispersion.
Greetings. Count it all joy my brothers when you meet trials of various kinds. If we apply
audience relevance to find out who this is written to James is writing to the 12 tribes. So the idea
that there were only two tribes available and that during this time in the first century the 10
lost tribes were totally out of the picture and gone makes no sense in several examples but this
is one big one because James is writing to all 12 tribes not just to the Jews the southern two tribes
you know he's writing to all 12 tribes and to say that the you know the northern kingdom was lost
to time the writers of the New Testament say different. James was speaking to the 12 tribes
who were going through various trials to endure those trials because the coming of the Lord was
at hand. It was a soon to happen event that they would experience. Alright so now let's take another
look at what Peter said regarding the end of all things is at hand this is a strangest statement
the end of all things is at hand it was something that was going to happen to them the end of all
things and this is probably one one of the main reasons that a lot of people struggle with I think
full preterism anyway is because of these big statements and then they add their imagination
and that is absolutely everything and they don't really they don't know what these people are talking
about so who was the audience who was Peter speaking to same thing will go to the beginning of
his book first Peter 1 1 and it's Peter an apostle of Jesus Christ to those who are elect
exiles of the dispersion in Pontus Galatia Galatia that's Paul's book Cappadocia Asia there's John's
book the seven churches of Asia and Athenia. Peter is speaking to the elect exiles of the
dispersion it's the same people that James is speaking to the 12 tribes of the dispersion the
elect exiles of the dispersion same group Peter is telling them them that the end of all things is
at hand okay so Peter is speaking to the same exile 12 tribes as James his audience is a scattered
Israelite first-century audience James so Peter is saying the end of all things is happening James
is saying really strange things to them what's going on so what was the meaning of the end of
all things is at hand and Luke 21 I believe this is an example to kind of give us an idea
Luke 21 20 through 22 but when we see Jerusalem surrounded by armies so this happened in 80 70
this was fulfilled in 87 when we see Jerusalem surrounded by armies then know that its desolation
has come near then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains so this is obviously not
talking about a global audience those who in Judea were to flee them and those who are inside
the city what city Jerusalem depart and let those who are out in the country so the country
surrounding Jerusalem don't enter it for these are the days of vengeance to fulfill all that is
written so those who are in Judea flee those are in the city flee and those are in the surrounding
countries don't go to the massive fortress where you think you would be protected don't go to the
temple don't go to the city of Jerusalem and that those are the days of vengeance to fulfill all
that is written to the end of all things and to fulfill all of that is written I believe it's
speaking of the same thing fulfillment of all things written that is at hand I think that's
what Peter meant there and now note how the end of the book of revelation this is interesting it
uses the phrase at hand in the book of revelation states the prophecies in the book were at hand
this is revelation 2210 people that say that revelation ends at 19 and the rest of the book
of revelation is for the future we have a time statement in revelation 2210 that locks the last
chapter down to the first chapter you'll see here in a second then he told me do not seal up the
words of this prophecy of the scroll which is the book of revelation because the time is at hand so
this is a time statement at the end of the book John is told that the prophecies of the book were
all prophecies that were soon to take place you'll see what I mean here in a second take a look at
these time statements that show without a doubt that the prophecies were expected to take place
during that first century generation beginning of the book I don't know if I'm going to read all these
but you can look through this and and see but I'm going to give you some big ones oh so revelation
11 we start the book out and the book is being written about things which must shortly take place
revelation 13 the time is near revelation 19 johns is saying that he's going through the
tribulation with his audience that he's writing to so it's a first century audience revelation
119 the things that are about to take place that the word mellow is there mellow means about to
revelation 210 do not fear any of those things which you first century seven churches a first
century audience are about to suffer this book is to a first century audience repent I come to you
quickly this is a judgment statement or it's a saving from their last judgment that they were
about to experience because the gospel was all about being saved from a soon coming wrath that's
what the gospel was about so revelation 225 nevertheless what do first century audience
have holds fast until I come so we're applying audience relevance we're seeing about to quickly
this one's interesting and she gave birth to a son a male child who is about to rule all the
nations with a rod of iron this is a prophecy pertaining to a king for Israel so even all the
nations there has some leadway to still be talking about the 12 tribes that'll be a whole another
audio on that revelation 226 so now we're going toward the end of the book and there are time
statements here that lock it down to the beginning of the book things which must shortly take place
revelation 226 behold I am coming quickly 227 revelation 227 some people will say this is funny
so some people try to say that I'm coming quickly it means that uh that whenever Jesus comes it's
going to be a very quick coming not that I'm coming soon not a time statement but how fast he's
going to come so he's when he comes in the clouds it's going to be very fast somehow everybody's
going to see it but it's going to be super fast like lightning you know that's how fast he's coming
he's coming quickly but first they gotta get speed demon speed speeds what we need we need greasy fast
speed now I show you a trick how to get some speed in them legs I want you to try to to chase this
little chicken what do I gotta chase the chicken for it's embarrassing you know first because I said
so and second because chicken chasing is how we always used to train any old day you catch this
thing you can catch grease lightning you know so that's that's the futurist understanding of this
verse preterist know well we know that it means that I'm coming soon that this audience is first
century seven churches audience of this book they were supposed to know that this was all
going to happen soon revelation 2210 the time is at hand that's the at hand phrase there revelation
2212 I'm coming quickly 2220 I'm coming quickly I think that's enough for us to know that the
book of revelations written to a first century audience about things that were going to happen
to them the phrase at hand is a time statement it's an eminicy statement it was something to
happen soon so conclusion four good points at hand was a phrase to describe a soon coming event
it was always speaking of something soon to come very near or at arm's length when applying this
insight as a time statement in the new testament we can see that all of those prophecies regarding
the coming of the lord the second coming the end of all things written in the law and the prophets
were at hand all right so this is your first time to hear something like this there are some youtube
channels if you're into youtube videos uh that you could check out i think you'll like i've got
some listed here in this last slide there's five here from really good people this is mostly full
preterism information this is not i o information so revelation revealed is almost full preterist
basically full preterist and stuff all prophecy fulfilled is it's one of my favorite channels
ryan mckittrick shout out to ryan don presson mica stevens and tony didn't these are their
channels they're a full preterist for people that don't like israel only this is an option for them
so i've got a link to my blog at the bottom right and my patreon if you're interested in giving a
dollar a month so i could spend i don't know on pizza and beer who knows and that's it this is your
boy david take care guys
now let's look at what the tech say about jesus's second coming the coming of the lord
word that was that hand
ah
