We are live myth vision podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert. I have again a special guest Dr. James D.
Tabor joining us again. How are you my friend? Well, other than the horrible things going on in the Middle East for the last 19 days, I'm doing okay.
So, actually some of that relates to what we're going to talk about as you'll see.
Yes, I want to talk about apocalyptic scenarios that arise out of biblical texts. What people call
Bible prophecy, basically. And you're going to mainly relate it to the Dead Sea Scrolls. Right.
Right. It's related to that. Let me go ahead and get that out of the way so people understand.
You have a course. This course we put together here. Dr. Tabor goes deep on the Dead Sea Scrolls,
gets into one of the topics we're going to talk about today, but he does so extensively bringing
up sources so you can actually wrap your head around what the Dead Sea Scrolls are teaching,
what's going on with this movement 100, 150, 200 years before Jesus of Jews who are in the wilderness
that have a very similar idea in many ways of what we see in the New Testament. I wanted to ask you
if that also applies to apocalypticism and what is meant by this. So, everybody, the link is pinned
at the top. It's also in the description. Go sign up for the course on Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls.
There's so much in common. There's also some differences. And wrap your head around what
Dr. Tabor says here. He has a blog. He has a YouTube channel. I hope that any mods that are
watching can plug his YouTube channel in the chat so people can go and subscribe to Dr. Tabor.
And just so you know, James, I know you already know this. And by the way, don't feel offended if
you're watching. James doesn't mind me calling him James. I get a lot of people who are super
sensitive and saying, he's Dr. Tabor. He's Dr. You know, trust me, he'd yell at me if I kept doing
that. How about your Royal Highness? Should we go? Exactly. Exactly. So, my students out there,
YouTubers in the past, I'll probably do some deep dives dissecting some of the sensational
fear grabbing nonsense that I find among Christianity and those online that are pushing the
end times are happening now. Like, is the Israel conflict a sign of the end times? Proof the end
times is here. What do you mean is doing? And of course, if you just type in like Hamas Israel
War Bible Prophecy, what do you know? What is that? 10 million? Was it 10 million? Six million.
Six million, yeah. Yeah. It's just, it's never ending with the prophecies or this and this is that.
And then when Russia and then with China and then this and that and this and that. And it's like,
okay, so we need to ask first off, Dr. Tabor, Dead Sea Scrolls, your course, give us something
about the course and what is apocalypticism and is this movement in the Dead Sea Scroll Movement,
the Kumran sect will call them, do they have this in common with the Jesus movement?
Okay, so apocalypticism within a biblical context
refers to unveiling or pulling the curtain back. And what you're pulling the curtain back on are
the secrets of the end of the age, what's called eschatology. But it's particular within a Jewish
context, apocalyptic messianic eschatology, because the key is a set of figures that show up.
Most people think of one Messiah, but actually even in the New Testament, you remember that passage
in Mark, I think it's chapter 10 or so, where two of the 12 disciples of the fishermen, the
Zebedee boys, I call them James and John, they say, oh, Lord, when we come into the kingdom,
one of us maybe could sit at the right hand and one of the left. That's the priestly and
Davidic Messiah idea, that the Messiah would be the teacher like Moses, he's anointed of the Spirit.
Isaiah 61, some people will know that text, the Lord has anointed me, his Spirit. Jesus quotes
that in Luke 4. In the Dead Sea Scrolls, they have a figure, we don't know his given name, his proper
name, but they called him the right teacher, the true teacher. You'll usually see it translated as
the teacher of righteousness. But I don't think it's so much what he teaches like, I teach righteousness,
lots of teachers do that. But who is the true teacher? You know, the ultimate teacher is what
they're calling him. And so within the Dead Sea Scrolls, we learn that that there are actually
three figures. There's a middle figure, that is the main guy. And then he has two assistants, one a
priest and one a Davidic warrior. And it comes up again, of course, in the New Testament. So the
reason you should study the Dead Sea Scrolls, I mean, because they're the oldest documents ever
found that relate to Western biblical religions, for one thing. Remember, the Dead Sea Scrolls
are over 2000 years old, the actual copies that we have, who has copies of the New Testament
are from the fourth century CE or AD. And our oldest copy of the Hebrew Bible, believe it or not,
is 1000 AD or CE. Doesn't mean it's worthless or throw it out. But to go back 2000 years earlier
and have texts that are before Jesus was even thought of or born, you know, as a human being
in the earth, and to be able to study that movement. So sometimes when I teach this course to students
in college and so forth, I'll even title it The First Messiah. And that's mainly an attention
getter. I have to explain that because I'm teaching to Christian students primarily, or they come from
Christian backgrounds. But even if they don't, they would go like, you mean Jesus, right? Because
this is Western culture, right? So who is the First Messiah? Well, actually, the First Messiah
technically was Aaron, the priest that Moses anointed, because to be a Messiah is to be anointed
either as a priest or a king. And I guess the second after him would be King Saul. Samuel anointed him
as king of Israel. But when we say the First Messiah and use the M word, you know, we're not to say
an anointed one way back in the time of Moses or in the time of David and Saul, we're talking about
this anointed figure, anointed of the spirit, Isaiah 61, who's going to proclaim the final year
of God's favor and bring in the end of the age. He's going to usher in the kingdom of God. And
there are many texts in the Hebrew Bible, in the prophets particularly, some in the Psalms, mainly
the prophets, in which this figure is described and identified in terms of what he's going to do
and so forth. And then you get candidates. So I like to call it categories and candidates. The
categories come from the texts of the Hebrew Bible. And then you get candidates coming along,
you know, almost like, I'll run, could I be it? Right. So forth. So if we look at the Second
Temple period, it's rich with candidates, Jesus is among them. Our main source is the historian
Josephus, who many, many of your viewers will know and probably have even read some of his works.
And at my last count, he catalogs about 14 figures that come from basically the first
century BCE, all the way down to the Bar Kokhba period. Now, he doesn't live that far down,
but he begins, he kind of stops around 70 AD. But then we have other sources that kick in. And
actually, Josephus does right way into the 90s with his Jewish antiquities. So we got categories,
the scriptures, candidates. What happens though, and this is what you're going to learn in the course,
are these categories are scriptural categories. I call them floating prophecies. A good example
would be Isaiah two, well known. The United Nations has actually put it outside on the Isaiah
wall, they call it. And it says essentially that in the last days, the nations will come up to Jerusalem,
they'll learn the way of peace. And nations won't lift up sword against nation, there'll be no more
war and so forth. Well, how would I plot that if I was wanting to know, are we near that? Are we
getting near? What are the signs? That's the apocalyptic side. Well, there's no way it's a
floating prophecy. You know how it begins in the last days. Well, okay, so that kind of prophecy,
these kinds of prophecies that I would call kind of set pieces, they often are just out there. And
when the, when somebody thinks the end is near, they kick in, so to speak. Now, some of them,
though, get specific. For example, the day of the Lord is coming when I will gather all nations
against Jerusalem. Okay, that's not an exact quote, but it's Zechariah 14, Joel 3, Zechariah 12,
this idea, Psalm 83. See, I'm clicking off these little set pieces. Isn't that a category though,
like in a way? It's a category like assault of Jerusalem in the last days by surrounding powers.
Right. Now, if you put it in the ancient world, you see, the surrounding powers will be, first of all,
the Greeks, Alexander the Great, Antiochus Epiphanes, right, Hanukkah and all that,
of the Maccabean period. If you go on down into the latter part of the first century, it's the
Cateam they're called in the Dead Sea Scrolls. That's the Romans. Cateam means those of the West,
literally from the Crete. They come in from the area of Crete, the Cateam. If you move it on down
to the time of Jesus, the Cateam are still in control, and so they also are the ones being
talked about. And so you can go throughout history and then throughout history. Here's what happens,
and this is why everyone listening should study the Dead Sea Scrolls. You need more than one example.
What people do is they go to the New Testament and they tend to think, oh, this is unusual.
This is unique. Mark 13, you know, I don't know of any other Jewish teacher who said this. Well,
you're right if you're talking about Pharisees and Sadducees. They're the establishment. They're
not into this thing. But look, with the Dead Sea Scrolls, and by the way, we don't have any writings
of Sadducees or Pharisees from this period. We have later traditions and references to them,
primarily in the New Testament. And then we have the Mishnah, which is getting into the
third and fourth century AD. But imagine discovering the library of a Jewish apocalyptic messianic
sect 100, 150 years before Jesus that did a let's call it a trial run because it didn't work out to
be the end, right? They thought they're going to defeat the kateem, but they quote all of the texts
that the New Testament quotes having to do with this. For example, Jesus says,
in those days, there will be great tribulation, such as was not from the beginning of the creation
and never will be again. Well, it's quoting Daniel 12, verse one. A lot of people know that.
That's your floating prophecy. Right. Okay. Well, we've had a lot at times of great tribulation
in world history. But if you make it very specific and you plug in the others, oh, that's when all
the armies come and conquer Jerusalem. And that's when this happens. And that happens. You begin
to plug all these in, and you get what's called an apocalyptic scenario. Well, guess what? In the
Dead Sea Scrolls, enough of the pieces were on the chessboard of interpretation, you might say,
that you could begin moving them around and go, oh, well, the kateem, that must be the Romans.
And a king will come who's very evil. That must be Pompey who conquered and was very cruel.
And so forth. And you end to set up their expectations. The other thing you have is you
have a timetable. It's a floating timetable. It's a final 490 year period. When you start that clock,
it should, the end should come within 490 years. It's also 10 jubilees, jubilees 49 years.
This group, I mean, imagine we have the library of a group that thought they were in the first
week of the final jubilee, which means they've got like 40 years left. So they think they're the
final generation. So to have their library from that time, and to be reading these texts,
got a copy right here. This is the book that we use, Gaze of Hermes. It has a different cover
now, but it's the same book. And we don't read all 683 pages, believe me. But you know what?
We read, we actually read a significant portion of the important scrolls that particularly will
relate to this question of Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls. So it's like, you know, a trial run,
a precursor. Well, then you're going to learn from that because you're going to find out like,
let me just throw out a couple quotations and we could play a game. Now you will know this,
but lots of people want, strike the shepherd and the sheep will be scattered. Hmm. That's Mark 14.
I think when Jesus is walking in the Kidron Valley to the Valley of Gethsemane and he's
warning his disciples about the end. Really? Yeah, it's there. I can show you a text that has
that 100 years before talking about the teacher of the Dead Sea Scrolls. And it's in what's called
the Damascus document. They've lost their teacher. He was killed by a wicked priest. Huh. Jesus was
killed by a wicked priest. You know, it's kind of surprised me, Derek, and this is just a footnote,
but it's funny that the mythers haven't got onto this because they're always looking for a pattern
like, oh, it's Apollonius of Tyanna or Daphnis and Chloe, or it's one of these other, you know,
kind of texts that I can go to and find the pattern. Well, the general Hellenistic pattern
of the divine man, that works. But when you throw in this detailed apocalyptic eschatology coming from
Hebrew scriptures, these Greek guys aren't reading the Hebrew Bible. We've got a group
that's reading the Hebrew Bible and they quote that about their teacher. This generation will not
pass till all these things are fulfilled. Guess what? I go to the Dead Sea Scrolls. Again, they have
a document called the Community Rule and they say from the death of the teacher, this is actually in
the Damascus document, sorry, from the death of the teacher, there will pass about 40 years. See
what they're saying? They're just, we're going to live to see the end. Yes, we lost our teacher.
Now, normally when an apocalyptic group loses their teacher, you would think they would go into
despair, which they often do, and they might even say we were wrong, but we know about cognitive
dissonance, right? And you know what happens sometimes? They affirm it all the more. And
typically what they say is somebody has seen him or heard from him or a successor comes up with an
interpretation that can adjust the group in some way so that they can keep waiting and expecting.
Now, typically you can't do that for hundreds of years because the circumstances change so much that,
I mean, your way past 490 years. So Christians today, right now during this war,
67 during the Six-Day War, what do they do when that clock stopped ticking way back at least by
the first century, right? Final 490-year period, 10 jubilees, they go, oh, the clock stopped and
there's seven years left. So at the end of the age when all this stuff kicks in and there are
millions of people out there today on YouTube and everywhere else that are waiting for the
clocks like this. Here's midnight and their way, okay, get ready. Oh, it's ticking again. Oh,
my God, it's moving. The question that they were doing that really, I'll tell you, when it really
begins to get re-ramped again is once Israel or the Jewish people have a homeland again,
the Balfour Declaration, 1917, 1920s and so forth when the British retook the Holy Land from the
Ottoman Empire. But then the Six-Day War, 48 when Israel was established, there was a war,
67 is the big one because Jerusalem is now once again in the hands of Jews. So what do you do?
You open up your Bible and you go, oh, Jerusalem is going to be conquered by Gentiles until
the time of the Gentiles is fulfilled. So now it must be fulfilled. This must be it again.
Now, all I say is caution lights flashing down the prophetic highway, okay? Caution, you know,
you come down a highway going too fast and wait, wait, be careful. There's a crash ahead. You're
going to go off a cliff. So look, who am I to say what the future is? What I want people to do is
study the past. Let's look at two examples where a Jewish apocalyptic messianic group,
the Jesus movement and the teachers' movement, I like to call it. We need to just say the teachers'
movement, about 100, 150 years apart because we can't exactly date the teacher, but within 50 years
we can date him, I think. And what could we learn from studying these two? Now, I heard some evangelicals
recently. I've played around on YouTube trying to watch mostly news about the war. I have many
friends in Israel trying to keep up. And I have, you know, Muslim friends, Jewish friends, Christian
Arab friends. I've been to the Holy Land 75 times, I think, and know a lot of people over there. So
I'm trying to keep up with it. But also, I was just cruising around on YouTube typing in some
search terms and I just couldn't believe it. It's like, oh, it's getting replayed again. I thought
it was back in 1967, which I'm old enough to remember when the whole world thought, well, this is it.
You know, and then Jerusalem was back in the hands of Israel and so forth. So you can open
these texts. But what these particular people were saying is, you know, when Jesus died, nobody
expected him to come back. Like when a Messiah dies, that's it, right? So he got Simon of
pariah, Judas the Galilean, Thudas, the shepherd king, and so forth. What happens? The Herod the
Great kills them, or the Romans killed them, and you never hear from them again. Right. We don't
have their writings. If we had their writings, let's take Judas the Galilean. What if we had
documents from the Judas the Galilean movement, who was a revolt leader in 4 BC,
that we think about the year Jesus was born. It may be 5 BC was born, but 4 BC, he would have been
a baby. So his mother, Mary, certainly experienced this. And it was centered in Cephorus, which is
the urban center of Galilee, three miles from Nazareth, where he grew up. So she's right there
on the apocalyptic 50-yard line. If we had his writings of his followers, they might have well
said the same thing. Like, I know he's dead, but I feel like, you know, he's been vindicated by God,
he's going to return again. So this particular teacher, they were saying, no, once they die,
it's over. But with Jesus, we had the totally unexpected event. He shows up again.
James, real quick. This is so, you just brought back a memory. I did an interview with my buddy,
Matthew Hartke. He's a non-academic, but he dives deep. And so you can consider him like a
miniature academic slash researcher. And he was looking at N.T. Wright and some of the other
claims, mainly N.T. Wright, who was trying to make this point, no one ever. We hear this often,
no one ever. They didn't think they were alive after they're dead. And they give these examples
from Acts. You know, we all know the famous Thudis and this and that. Right. That's what this guy did,
too. He quoted Acts. He said that an early church father, I can't remember if it's Origen,
who was one of the early church fathers, they wrote in their commentary in the Gospel of John,
chapter four, with the Samaritan woman. He wrote about, and we only have this, we have nothing
else. There's a section where he puts in the commentary about a Messianic Samaritan claimant
that we would not know about if it weren't for this mention by this church father who said
that his follower said he's still alive to this day. And most academics placed this guy
a century earlier around the first century period. And yet his claimants say he's still alive to this
day. Oh, look, I know it's the pattern. What I guess what I study most, I study ancient Judaism,
early Christianity, but my focus is apocalypticism and particularly biblical apocalypticism through
the ages. So the Dead Sea Scrolls is my springboard for getting into that. And I can tell you that
the pattern is the opposite of what these people are saying. The pattern is when a charismatic
leader dies, the group almost invariably begins to believe that even though he's dead, yet he lives.
Now, this can manifest itself in appearances, in apparitions, in dreams, in visions,
even in some cases claims that someone has encountered this person. Now, this is universal.
I mean, look at Apollonius of Tiana, we always mentioned that as an example. But the reason is
because when you put all of your hopes and dreams into something like this,
this is like everything. And you back it with scripture. So you've been studying texts of
scripture and they're all fitting. So it has to happen. And you kick in that prophetic clock.
And you don't have this little out that say, oh, the clock stops. So now we can wait 2000 years
and start it again and play it again. They didn't have that option. They're living in the 490-year
period. So once it's way past it, like 80 years, 100 years, nobody's even referring to that clock
anymore. But guess what? In the Dead Sea Scrolls, we don't have to speculate. We can actually find
texts. The teacher of righteousness in the Thanksgiving hymns, that's a text we study.
We read the whole thing in the course together. I take you through it. I guide you just like I'm
giving you a commentary like a Bible teacher would do with the New Testament. I take you
through the Dead Sea Scrolls. And it's hymns, Thanksgiving hymns. But number 10 through number
17 were actually written by the teacher. You know what he says? He applies Isaiah 53 to himself.
He does. Now, did the followers write that after and say that he said that? That's possible. Some
people think that about Jesus. When Matthew says he bore our sins and like a lamb led to the slaughter
and so forth, or Paul Christ our Passover sacrificed for us and so forth. But we think the teacher
wrote it because he's reading that text and he's thinking, that's me. I mean, I'm the one who's
like the suffering servant leading Israel back to God. But what happens in Isaiah 53? He's despised,
rejected. He makes his grave with the wicked ones. It's plural in the Dead Sea Scrolls, by the way.
We have a different copy of Isaiah that they used. And I will highly exalt him. Well, if you highly
exalt somebody, guess what? That sounds kind of like resurrection of the dead. I don't think
in the early Christian movement, now this will surprise people who don't know my take on this.
I don't think anybody was reporting a resuscitated corpse for quite some time.
I think they were reporting sightings and visions initially. And I based that on the earliest and
only first person account we have. And that's the apostle Paul. And as you know, in 1 Corinthians 9
and 1 Corinthians 15, when he's asked after saying, he appeared to me, I've seen the Lord,
but what kind of a body? And he says, well, it's glorious. It's immortal. It's indescribable. And
all of you will have that body too when you're raised. But he says he can't describe it in
physical terms that it's God will will create the spiritual body that Jesus now has. And so I think
the corpse idea basically comes later. We don't even get it in Mark. And even in Matthew, I'm not
sure we get it because remember, they're on a mountain in the Galilee. It sounds kind of like
a misty, always pictured as a misty cloudy mountain. And then it says he appeared to them.
Even in some of the movies I've seen, it's kind of like a light in the sky speaking to them. Have
you noticed that in some of the Jesus movies? Because they want to make him kind of glorified.
And then they hear a voice and he says, go into all the world and they think. But then Matthew has
the honesty, maybe to say, but some doubt it. That's among the 11. It's the 11 left after Judas is
gone. So by studying the Dead Sea Scrolls, we can begin to see, for example, they say,
this is the time for preparing the way on the wilderness. That's my favorite. Isaiah 40 verse
3. This is the time. 150 years later, John the Baptist, this is the time for preparing the way
in the wilderness. Quotes the exact same verse. Now, I'm not just saying, oh, look how stupid all
these people were. They keep applying this and they're all wrong. That's not my point. My point is
an apocalyptic messianic movement of any time or period that relies on these texts. You need to
say almost like buyer beware. Don't go for it necessarily until you've got a little history
under your belt. And I think we're in a time now of, I mean, look how the world is divided. We've
got Russia and China and the Ukraine and we've got the democracies against the totalitarian regimes.
We've got divisions in our country between the Republicans and Democrats. I mean, we're in apocalyptic
times. We've got climate change. We've got all these things, economic possibilities, doomsday
weapons. So of course you can open these books and say, well, this has to be it. But just remember
people in the past also thought this has to be it. Because they too could tick off the things
that were happening. So even if somebody's listening and they think, well, Dr. Tabor,
I think it fits more today and these people, they just thought it was and it wasn't. Well,
that could well be true. But it still makes sense to learn from the past. And we should look at how
these have been interpreted in the two examples that we have. And these are the only two examples
we have from the ancient world, the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Jesus movement. It's like we've
got the New Testament and we've got the Dead Sea Scrolls. Let's compare them. Let's learn a lot.
Before we get to my one big question that I'd like to tease the audience with,
I do want to give a promo real quick about the course just for those who are viewing and checking
this out right now. This Sunday, so if you sign up for Dr. James D. Tabor's Dead Sea Scroll Jesus
in the Dead Sea Scroll Course, you're going to learn a lot you did not know about the Dead Sea
Scrolls. There's so much material here. It's all in 4k, really high quality. You're getting several
lectures, we're 10 lectures, bonus footage of us actually there in Qumran. What is the place
that we are particularly at that we filmed that you were talking in Qumran? Right at cave 4,
I think, and also the cemetery. I think you've got, oh, the, well, the mikva that's there. We
kind of walk through the site. We've also got some bonus videos. You get a study packet that's
about 40 pages PDF. You get all of this other PDF download material. It's over 100 pages.
It's really in depth. The Mark course, I'm proud of it and it's wonderful and a lot of people
watching will have taken that. But in terms of study, that was only one text, you understand?
We're doing like the Dead Sea Scrolls. So this course actually has a lot more in it in terms of
just content because of the nature of what we're studying. Now, this we're doing a, we're actually
going to be doing a Zoom call for all students who sign up for this course. I will be there this
Sunday with you, Dr. Tabor. And what can people expect before I get my one question asked of you?
The thing that I do, I did it with the Mark course too. We met for six months, the last Sunday of
the month, unless it's some special holiday or something. And we meet at noon on Zoom. And this
is not a webinar. I want to explain that because everybody does webinars. That's where you sign
in to a website on Zoom and you hear a guy talking for 30 minutes and sometimes questions get passed
on or something. No, this is like, I call it a Zoom room. I taught on Zoom during COVID. So I know
how to do this. We get everybody together. It's 50 people a screen. So I remember on the Mark course,
we had over 200. Remember on that first meeting? Yeah, when somebody talks, they pop to the front
and so forth. And I know you can't have a, it's not the same as sitting around in a seminar with
12 people. But you know what? There is a personal touch, wouldn't you say, Derek? I don't look at
the people and people raise their hand and people can ask questions, especially as we go on because
we're going to keep doing this for several months. But in the first one, we're going to have prepared
Q&A. So if you sign up for the course, you can message me. And I don't know if my email is in
the course, but we'll put it in if it isn't. But I send out an email to all the registered people.
It already went yesterday to the one so far. But that doesn't mean if you sign up today or all the
way through Saturday night, I'd say. If you wait until Sunday, it's getting kind of close. But
theoretically, we're going to put the link on the course page. So even if you signed up it, Sunday
morning at noon, you could jump into the Zoom meeting. You haven't even looked at the course yet,
you know, because the link will be there. It's just for you as a student. And I've already been
getting questions, great questions from people. The course has been out over a month now. And
you're not going to believe, Derek, I haven't seen. Derek's going to be my emcee on the question.
You're not going to believe how good these students are. We have got some incredible students.
And they asked the best questions. And what's so great is you're talking, not just a general
audience, you're talking to a group that's read the scrolls and studied the scrolls or at least
is in the process. And then as we go through subsequent months, I get to know you,
you know, and people keep sending questions. And we kind of form different kinds of the Dead Sea
Scrolls called it the Yaqad, a kind of a group, a community. You know, it's sort of a community
of people studying the Dead Sea Scrolls. I don't know if anybody else does this, but I love doing
it. It's great. Yeah, you have a unique, me and Ryan, you know, the Queen of Mythvision,
we talk about it all the time. You'll send these messages as me and her at the gym in the morning
trying to get our exercise, trying to look good and fit. And, and you'll send these messages. And
I'm like, James is very unique. I mean, we have several scholars, you know, who who participate
on MVP courses. And you're unique, you want to connect and stay connected, keep the family tight.
So I really do appreciate that about you, because I know a lot of people appreciate that. It's
something about having that sense of community and being connected and learning directly from a
professor such as yourself, who's been teaching over 40 years, you know, you've been doing this
stuff for a long time. And we have new scrolls, there are new scrolls out. And I'm actually now
because of the war, taking a look at some things about the Katim again, that I want to bring out
on Sunday, because, you know, we don't live in a vacuum, right? And if there's a war going on in
the Middle East, and we're studying the first Messianic movement that thought their war was the
war, you can see how I'm going to be able to draw some relevant lessons, even in terms of what's
happening today. So I think that's going to be really interesting for people. And Derek, as we go
on, later months having these Zoom meetings, and I know all teachers say this, it's kind of lip
service, like, oh, I learned a lot from my students, or I've heard, I learned as much from my students
as I do from my study. Well, I don't know that that's true. But guess what? A lot of the people
that follow you, Derek, do you know how many religious experiences and traditions they've
been through? Do you know how many books they've read? How many articles? How many YouTube videos?
I would say the average one has read hundreds of things, don't you think? Yeah, they don't just
wander around like, oh, I guess I might look at some religion. No, there's speakers. They've been
digging. A lot of them have read the whole New Testament and tried to figure stuff out, and
they've listened to all this stuff. So it's an honor for me to be with these students. And I mean
that sincerely, because I like to meet with a group of historical seekers that are trying to figure
stuff out. And you know what? Many eyes see things that two eyes never see. Just think about it.
Somebody's going to spot something. We're going through the Damascus document. Somebody goes,
but Dr. Tabor, look at column six, line three, and I go, you know, I've never noticed that before.
Happens all the time. I want students to come in with me and have a class.
You know, there's two things that you remind me of. One is Steve Mason's remarks about
MythFish. In the first week he ever did a live stream, he was just like, man, I've had more
people voluntarily want to watch this four hour live stream. I've talked to more people that way
than I've ever taught teaching college. Number one, number two, it reminded me of a debate that
took place between Christine Hayes and an Orthodox rabbi about the Mishnah and Talmud.
And the rabbi is like, no, you got to read this for moral instruction. Don't read this for the
who, what, when, where, and why. And the way that Christine Hayes painted it, I relate to what she
said. She said to the rabbi, my friend, listen, your religious experience is through that.
I get what you could call a so-called religious experience, that experience you get through
the historical analysis, through the who, the what, the why did the rabbi say that? What did they
mean when they said this? There's something cool that goes beyond the what I once thought, even
as a person who's not a Christian anymore. Like, I still get an amazing experience exploring the
historical relationship that humans had and why they did this and why these texts were written.
There's something cool about that. It's called enlightenment, Derek. Right? The lights go on.
Oh, yeah. Maybe you've only studied the New Testament and then you're going to read these scrolls
and constantly you're going to say, oh, my God, I had no idea. This has already been thoroughly
discussed. Now, I'm not, it might sound like we're both saying the scrolls, the scroll movement and
the Jesus movement are the same. No, we go under the differences. No two apocalyptic groups are
ever the same. And even the Jesus movement, I mean, is it monolithic? Are you kidding me?
I'm not sure Paul even liked Peter in James. You know, he calls them the so-called pillars of the
church. That's not a real nice way to refer to. You're a scholar, James. What? I mean, like, you are.
As far as the thing about the students, I know this sounds like I'm putting down my college
students, but my undergrads at UNC Charlotte, all the years I taught, 33 years there,
if I'm in an advanced seminar, they can get pretty good like I expect in this course. You know,
they really study. But the average class, let's say I have a class of 50 and we just do
apocalypticism or whatever. Their main question is ready? Will that be on the test? You've heard
that. That's a joke now. Will this be on the test? And do we really have to read that? And they don't
ever say that because I tell them they have to. But what they think is I'll just listen to Tabor in
class because he goes over it anyway. See, well, I don't think the people that sign up for this
course have that attitude. If anything, they're like, I'm not going to fall for something. I want to
read. You mentioned the Damascus document. I'm going to read the Damascus document so that when
you talk about it, I have read it. And it's just tremendous. There's just so many things. I'm so
excited about it, as you can tell. Absolutely. So sign up today. My one question. And then if you
don't mind, James, can we touch a few super chats if you have time? Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Try to
make it relevant to this. But I'm pretty good at answering questions. I can always like side step
it or whatever. Yeah, let's do it. Why not? One of the big questions I had was we're looking for
commonality between these apocalyptic movements. We've described apocalypticism as like the unveiling
you. I don't even want to get into Jonathan's disease, Smith, because obviously, you know,
everything he put out when it comes to this is what a God he was in the field in terms of
the research on here. But as far as the end of the age, this term is used
in the Gospels describing the end of the age. What was meant by the Dead Sea Scroll community
by end of the age? Can you tease us? And of course, people should sign up for the course to get
more in depth here. But part of the challenge of the course is figuring out some of that,
because remember, the movement goes over about a 50 to 100 year period. So we see their development.
And just like in the New Testament, if you ask Paul, for example, our earliest source,
just to give you a parallel, okay, Paul, Jesus is going to come back, the dead will rise and
meet him and the living will rise. And then the kingdom is going to come. Describe that to me.
It's not real clear. Does he have a kind of millennial view? Is it the kingdom of God on
earth, sitting on 12 thrones, judging the 12 tribes of Israel, that kind of thing like you get in
the two saying source of the Gospels, sometimes called Q. You know, what is the vision of the
future? But we do get hints. They definitely are looking for the a fairly literal description of
the prophetic fulfillment. Now, there's when they mentioned the Khatim are going to come
and invade and there'll be a time of trouble and the shepherd's going to be struck and so forth.
They think that's happening and is going to happen even further. So it's not a metaphor for like,
well, evil is besetting us all the time. So maybe your Khatim are some of the demons you're
struggling with in your life. No, they never go there. Now, this is talking about armies.
This is talking about actual battles taking place. Now, here's the part that begins to get slippery.
If I'm a messianic figure, like I think Jesus of Nazareth was, and I believe pretty literally in,
you know, sitting on a throne and all the nations gathered in some sort of a judgment and so forth,
the way the prophets describe like Zechariah 14. And Jesus quotes Zechariah 14. In that day,
there'll mean no traitor in the house of the Lord, T-R-A-D-E-R. What does he do? He cleans out the
traders, right, the people, the money changers. So that kind of fulfillment is pretty literal.
But he also says, hold it, don't fight you guys. I can call 12 legions of angels if I need them.
Now, I know that's a presentation of Matthew in that case. Remember, he says,
if you live by the sword, you'll die by the sword. So I don't want to confuse Matthew with
historical Jesus, but the ideas, I think, are also found in the lifetime of Jesus himself.
And that is how much does God do in a kind of transcendent way, and then what do humans experience
as they try to follow the will of God? So it's kind of something like there can be a real battle,
I mean battle with weapons and blood and corpses and burial, like read Ezekiel 38 and 9,
that described the wars of Gog and Magog and so forth, book of Revelation. The blood is up to the
bridle of the horses and so forth. That sounds pretty real. And I don't think that's talking about
the threat of evil throughout history and some allegorization of that. I don't think they,
I don't think the writers of the book of Revelation meant it that way. But on the other hand,
Jesus probably expected in the future, those could team have to be defeated. The earth doesn't
disappear, right? And the Romans just don't go away. So there is this idea that the suffering that
Jesus began to anticipate is a redemptive suffering. Paul had the same idea, right? And there's you
turn the other cheek. It's the ethic of not so much, but people call it being a pacifist. It's
really not a pacifist. It's more vengeance belongs to God, not to me. And my job or my role is to
submit to the will of God. And that's what Jesus does according to the gospels in the Garden of
Gethsemane. So I think they are expecting a concrete real future. And it's not into the world.
Into the world is a terrible mistranslation of, you know, that phrase that's used in the Dead Sea
Scrolls. It's also used, they talk about this age and the age to come, the close of the age,
the last days, and so forth. So they're reading things fairly literally, but with God on their side,
if you know what I mean. So maybe they thought, like, I get the idea, there's a scroll called
The War of the Sons of Light and the Sons of Darkness. That's the name of the scroll. So it's
a war. But as you begin to read how that war is going to take place, think it's so much supernatural
help that it seems like it's not like a normal war. Because who could defeat the Romans? Give me a
break. You know, 24 legions, you're really going to beat them. I don't think so. But they believe
God will give them the victory, you see. But it's still a war. And they're preparing, like,
they're getting their banners together and their weapons and so forth as they describe it. So it's
hard to know sometimes, just like in any text, you know, how literal do you take the literal?
But I don't think it's ever, never, neverland. I think it is here and now. It is naming definite
powers that they faced in their time. Just like the book of Revelation talks about their 10 kings,
five have fallen, one is, one is to come and so forth. These are probably Roman emperors,
including Nero, we think. You know, these are real people, but they're going to get defeated by God.
So the Suvius would be a great example, right? 79 AD, summer of 79, you get a volcano
that they thought was going to destroy Rome. Plenty of the elder is burnt up in the fire.
His nephew, plenty of the younger is in a ship watching, you know, Pompeii and Hercolanium go
down. And they probably thought, you know, this is it. Everybody's been predicting the final judgment.
Read Revelation 19, Derek. I think we did a show on this once. Revelation 19. No, I'm sorry,
Revelation 18, 19 is when it's all over. Read Revelation 18. The city's burning, the ships are
in the harbor, they're crying, oh great Babylon, all of the trade and the whole world, you know,
that kind of thing. So imagine 9-11 or something like that being described. And people that think
the United States is Babylon, they would be thinking, yeah, God's bringing them down through
their own enemies or something like that. But I mean, you still have to wake up in the morning
and decide whether to make coffee or not or what. You're not in Never Neverland, so to speak. So
I don't know if that addresses it. But there's a lot. Yeah, there's a lot.
There's eternal life. They do talk about being back in an Edenic state of some type.
But they never talk about flying off to heaven or anything like that. So yeah.
Yeah. That was, it's one of those interesting things. You know, I came from the Preterist
background. But let's get to Super Chat, because we'll, I'll never get to people's questions here.
Okay, let's go for it. Okay. Constellation Pegasus, thank you so much. Yesterday you
super chatted us and we were tearing just like Jesus. So here we are today. Any topic ideas for
any courses in the future? The way I understood this question, James, is we did Mark, we did
Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls. So you want to tease a few of our, like for future? Yeah,
I've got a bunch of ideas. I think I'm going to do one. I'm not sure if this will be the next one,
but I have two in mind. One is discovering the real Paul. You know how we do historical Jesus?
I'd like to do historical Paul. And that Paul's the figure I've worked on the most. I've written
two books on Paul. You can put the links in the description. Just go to my blog, has it all.
JamesDaver.com. But I think I want to do that. And that would be just like I'm teaching the
Scrolls and Mark. Look, for years, I've taken people verse by verse through the seven letters of
Paul, the authentic letters of Paul. I don't know anybody that isn't in a college course that has
a chance to do that. And I think I'd like to do a course. We could do it probably in about 10 or
12 lessons. And we just go through the letters of Paul. And I give you the benefit of what I've
learned over the years. And then we can touch on all the issues that people bring up in Pauling
Studies. And I think that would be a course that a lot of people would want to take.
Sunday School with James Taber. Look, the other one that really got me teased. You know me,
I came from that kind of I thought the end of the world was going to happen as a Christian. And
then I started realizing, hold on, there's certain time statements in the New Testament that make
it seem like it was supposed to happen soon. Then I rationalized and became a full Preterist for
a while because I could not accept failure. So anyway, later on, I ended up realizing, whoa,
there's a reason critical scholars think that it didn't happen. And so the one that you really got
me hype on thinking is going through history and documenting all of the apocalyptic movements that
had an eschatology that failed. And just tease everybody, there's a hundred percent success
rate on them all felling. And so going through history, documenting, sabotage Zevi, you know,
Millerites, like going way, way back in history. Apocalypticism through the ages. Yeah, I teach
that course already. And that's another one. A third one is, I think I would like, and I'd like
a group to attempt with me to restore an original primitive gospel that is recoverable from the
texts that we have in the synoptic gospels. I'm not going to call it Q, although the Q material
is part of it. But how do you go about maybe reconstructing the earliest stage of the Jesus
story? Mark's our earliest finished product. And we did a course on that. But what about all the
teachings of Jesus that are like in Luke and Matthew and so forth? So, and this would be an
experimental course where we try to do it together. You know, I would suggest things and we would
explore them and so forth that it would have a little more of an interactive, but kind of like
restoring the original gospel, all the things that people are doing on Marcian's text. We have
several scholars working on that. Mark Bilby and Jason and others that are looking at some of that.
Jason DeBoone, that that could play into it. But like Bert Mack wrote a book long ago called
something like the Q, the Q gospel restored or whatever. Different people have tried it.
McDonald, I think, doesn't Dennis, he has his idea of some original Q document. I'd like to
synthesize those in some way and try to get it down to method. Like, what methods do you use?
Not just like, well, this is what I come up with and I'm going to stick with it.
But more, how do you decide these things? Those criteria of authenticity, I think most of us
agree, that's not going to work. They're too subjective. You know, you've talked about those
before with other scholars, you know, I think, well, there's four criteria we'll apply.
And Croson probably does the best job in trying to do it, but he comes up with a non-apocalyptic Jesus.
So, you know, my buzzer is going to go, wait, wait. That's what happened. Yeah. Yeah. Dale
Allison is my favorite of all favorites. I think he does the best job on reconstructing the historical
Jesus. Paula Fredrickson, I think, does a tremendous job. We might even take scholars.
I hadn't thought of this, Derek. We might take a set of scholars, examine what each, you had a
course. Dale gives a course. And people maybe that took his course, we would then do a Dale
Allison segment or two. Why does he end up differing from Croson? Right. And you know what we might
even do is talk them into coming into a Zoom later after we've all done the work. Wouldn't that be
something? And they would be, they'd be so excited about it because there's, there would be students
that have actually studied their stuff, you know. Yeah. And then talking about, oh, wow, how do we
do this? You know, so. I know he'd be down. Absolutely. Yeah. Thank you. Rochester, Johnny,
thank you for the support, my friend. Yesterday you were showing love and you super chatted in
case you're here. If you're not here, you might see this later. Thank you so much. Constellation
again says, any book recommendations for this topic, time period, this hits the stage. So I
think it's the, the topic of a failed apocalypticism, the Dead Sea Scrolls, and we compare it to the
GC. I have, I have a number of, I'm not sure if he or Constellation Pegasus, is that a guy or a
girl I don't want to assume. You know, I started to say he, but right. I'll just say the name. I
know, I know this person from many super chats in the past, but anyway, if the person means
for the time period, I would, I would probably think of something like,
let's see, from the Maccabees to the Mishnah. It's a study of Judaism and I'm trying to think
who wrote it. You might have to Google it for me to see it, but that would be a good survey of the
period. And that takes you from the Maccabees all the way through the Mishnah. But I can't remember
now who wrote that offhand. Haven't looked at it in a while because I easily don't go into survey
books that much. For the Dead Sea Scrolls, I would say Michael Wise, the first Messiah.
Tremendous book. And so as far as prophecy through the ages, there are quite a few. Probably the best
thing is the Oxford Handbook on Millennialism, which is a big, thick, and psychopedia type book.
But that covers not just biblical, but Japanese, Asian, Buddhist, and all kinds of views. Anybody
that has a sort of future utopian hope and thinks there's some way to predict when it's coming.
But I do have a bibliography. There is a bibliography in the course pack with lots of further
reading. Thank you. J.C. has one of two super chats yesterday. As the presence of certain names
on the Talpiatum Asuaries raises a statistical question, what question is raised by the presence
of Saffron Rosettas on those Asuaries, along with the presence of cognates to the roots of the names
Joshua, Ephraim, Ephrata, and Joseph in the Cuneiform words that refer to the flower that is
represented by the star, David. Holy smokes. You know, that has to do with the ornamentation.
Some people call it decorations on Asuaries. The best source for that, and I don't know if it's
going to tell you much about Cuneiform, but it's E.R. good enough. His name is actually good enough.
E.R. good enough. Famous scholar at Yale. He would be the Jonathan Smith of his day.
Jonathan says this is my teacher on Hellenistic religions. And he wrote, the big multi-volume
thing is probably too much to buy, but there's a one-volume addition and it's on Jewish symbols.
He goes with the route that they're full of deep meaning, symbolic meaning, and it's not just you
go to the Asuaries shop and you kind of like, I like one with that pattern and I kind of like
that pattern. That looks really pretty. I'll take that. You know, it's something like that. But
people are trying to say something very profound. I tend to lean with both, meaning some people
might just go with the flow. Funerary practices in every culture have a certain pattern to them
that people go with. But when you're decorating the bone box for the deceased, I don't think it
tends to be haphazard. I think people, there's a lot of uniformity to it, but there are also a
lot of anomalies. But as far as the roots of the names, let's see. Should I read the first half
again? No. I haven't studied that in terms of the Keneafon words that refer to that saffron flower.
Clearly, art history overlaps in various ways. To me, words like Joshua are pretty straightforward.
It's form, you know, basically from the name Jehovah or God or Yahweh. And to save, so Jehovah
saves, Yahoshua literally means Jehovah saves. So I don't get some deep meaning in there, but
not sure. Rhonda has gained true salvation through MythVision. Thanks for joining the
member program. Really appreciate it, Rhonda. Thank you so much for joining the family.
Doc Pluromina, you know when Doc's name comes up, it's going to have like someone's opinion.
How different would the paradigm of early Dead Sea Scrolls scholarship be if the halachic scrolls,
Hue 4, MMT, etc. were found first rather than doctrinal texts were universally available and
Jewish scholars had access? Yeah, we tend in the course, Doc, to look at the history of ideas,
you could call it doctrinal texts, because we're dealing with charter membership and how you get
in and how you stay in and what the beliefs are and so forth, because I want to compare it to
early Christianity. The halachic scrolls are very, very important because they help us to try to
understand what the relationship was in interpreting the Torah, particularly laws of purity in the
temple, that to this group would be a very big deal. In the course, one of the things I cover is
what do you do with the toilets or the latrines? Because the Torah says to put them outside the
camp and bury your waste, your feces, to bury it, right? Okay? And in the city of Jerusalem,
there are toilets, you know, and people have toilets in their home. They don't all walk out of the
city to go to the bathroom. Well, that's a big deal to the Dead Sea Scrolls community because in the
Torah, it also says that God's presence cannot be in a place that has human waste. It's not that
human waste is ritually defiling because it isn't. Jody Magnus has a great article on this. So if I
touch a dead body, that's ritually defiling. If I have sexual intercourse, that's ritually defiling.
Doesn't mean it's dirty. If I'm a woman and I have a period, that's ritually defiling.
But the toilet thing is a different question. It has to do with the holiness that's in the camp
and what's appropriate for the presence of God during worship. And what this group believes is
that angels hover over the assembly when they gather together on Shabbat, the Sabbath, and on
the festivals. Also, it has to be on the right day according to the calendar. So if you're meeting on
a Yom Kippur that's not really Yom Kippur according to this group and the Pharisees are meeting in
Jerusalem on another Yom Kippur, that comes up in the scrolls because the wicked priest comes down
on Yom Kippur for the teacher and it confronts him because he knows the teacher can't do anything
on Yom Kippur. Does that recall the 1973 war when the Arabs attacked the Jews on Yom Kippur?
No, it's because not a holy day on Islam, we can go kill Jews. And if you've seen that new movie
Outgolda, it's about 50 years ago to the day from the October attack was the attack of Yom Kippur.
So sometimes, halakic stuff can have to do not just with what Paul calls touch, not taste,
not handle, not, you know, like, ooh, ritual, defilement, I can't go to the temple. It can also
have to do with what allows the presence of God to come in. So we think they're a celibate community
in Comron itself. Why? Because sexual intercourse can keep the presence of God away
and the best way to keep the presence of the best way not to be defiled sexually is just
don't have women in that community. But the group does allow marriage and having children
and people who do get married. So it's more like a kind of spiritual headquarters, like a monastery
you would go to, you know, a Buddhist monastery, and you could even be married, but you're in the
monastery for special devotion and spiritual discipline and so forth. The problem with 4QMMT,
which is this halakic document that we have, and there are others too, that's not the only one,
is we're not sure who wrote it and who is it actually addressing. It's kind of a question
because it both have been argued. Some have argued that it's a group writing to the scroll group
telling them, here's what we think. Most of us think it's the scroll group writing to the Jerusalem
people and saying, here's what you need to clean up in your own religious practices. Halakic,
by the way, means the way you observe the Torah in a very strict way, down to what regulations.
So let's say if you spit in the assembly, you got a cough and spit, or let's say your robe comes
open and your genitals are exposed in the assembly, what happens? That's addressed in the scrolls.
I really don't think the Pharisees would particularly probably even address something
like that. So it's a good question though, the balance between Jewish observance,
just like today with Orthodox observant Jews, and Jewish ideas that they hold and how those two go
together. There's such a thing as being orthopraxic, which means you follow the rules of your group,
but then your ideas could range from reincarnation to no reincarnation, to eschatology,
to this idea, to that idea. I think this group is pretty monolithic. I get the idea that they run
a tight ship. They think that their teacher has all true revelation. He's the new Moses, basically.
Thank you. Mr. Brain Ake, thank you for the super chat. If K4 was a Geneza,
and the community were working from old scrolls, wouldn't that put them in the time of Jesus?
Well, whether it was a Geneza or not is a question. The way they've been found all on the floor of
the cave, it's been extensively discussed, might indicate that because in a Geneza,
a Geneza is where you put old worn out scrolls, but all of the cave for material doesn't look old
and worn out. It's been deteriorated by weather, by moisture, and most of all by varmints that
have gotten in there and chewed the stuff, because leather is edible. It is an organic
substance, and these are on leather primarily, not parchment or papyri. A parchment is like
a cured leather that I guess a self-respecting mouse might not want to eat, but leather, we've
had at our house here a couple of leather coats ruined by mice in an attic once, and it's because
they like the leather, or maybe like the dye in the leather, I don't know.
But so I'm not sure it is a Geneza, but it doesn't put them, well, let me put it this way.
As far as being written in the time of Jesus, I don't think, but as far as them existing on down
into the time of Jesus, yes, this group was active as far as we know right up until the year 70,
and we think they were, they fled the community when the 10th Legion had destroyed Jerusalem
in the summer of 70 and came down and burnt the palace of Jericho, Herod's Palace at Jericho,
and then came on down and ended up at Masada. So if the theory is right that they hid their
scrolls at that time, and that it wasn't a Geneza, then they would have hidden scrolls that date
back even earlier. There has been carbon dating of some of the scrolls, and most of it comes out
to be first century BCE. I think there's one or two texts that are from the first century CE.
I'm not much convinced by the Geneza theory, because it looks like there might be have been
shells or something. Remember, scrolls are very light, they're just rolls, and that maybe they
all collapsed, and everything then is just topsy-turvy. But I wish we had better records of the,
you know, if we had photos, what did cave 4 look like on the day that the
scholars first looked at it and before they removed anything? And I believe westerners did
discover cave 4 rather than the Bedouin. But you never know at the Bedouin, because sometimes
they'll discover a cave and take some things out, and then later the, these were Jordanian scholars
and some Catholic scholars from Jerusalem who were coming down to find more scrolls,
Father DeVoe, and so forth. But that's the kind of question we can discuss in the course. We can
talk about that. We have articles on that, whether we're the scrolls of Geneza, we have whole articles
on that. Thank you, thank you. JC has another few interesting questions. Is donkey writing in the
Bible an act of performative humility alongside the ancient Near Eastern custom of deities, kings,
and their chariots as the burden of asses? You know, that comes up a lot when there's a prophecy
in Zechariah 9 verse 9, I think, about, low your king comes to you, humble and triumphant,
and he's writing on an ass. And there is that text, I believe it's Solomon who's anointed as king
at the foot of the Kidron by the Gihan spring. And I believe he's pictured as writing on a donkey.
I don't know if it's exactly humility, not coming in writing a war horse, like say,
Revelation chapter 19, the white horse with somebody writing it. I think it's in your
trailer, right, of somebody writing a white horse. Yeah, I'm not sure who that person is, but I
would never know. I could never figure out who that person is. He has a white beard and white hair.
You know, when we go to do the outro, we'll play that for people. People can decide who that is,
and be sure and look for Robin somewhere on one of those horses. Exactly. Exactly. I do know
that what I do find interesting about the whole writing on asses is Dionysus does the same thing.
So there's an interesting something to do with the asses. JC also asks another question. I think
the sense of salvation in the name of Yeshua is derived from the Asu of Asupiru, healing branch.
The root of Joshua is the Asu of Saffron. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, my sense of Hebrew and
Greek is my best language I majored in Greek. My Hebrew is pretty good, but
if you're going to take that kind of etymology or that kind of derivation of names,
you would have to, it seems to me, you'd have to leave behind what the words come to mean
from at least 5th, 6th, 7th century BC in the text that we have, because clearly
you've got the Yod Hei Vav Hei as part of these names,
many of these names, and then you've got verbs like to save, and it's not any holy word or anything.
If I almost dropped this book in a fire and I'm speaking Hebrew,
anciently even, and I and I grab it out and then Derek says to me in Hebrew, oh my God,
you saved the book. He would use the same word saved as you need to get your soul saved like
a Christian evangelical preacher might mean it. So it just, I'm not familiar with the kind of thing
that JC is trying to do there in terms of the language, but most Hebrew names are pretty,
some of them aren't, but most of them are pretty self-evident, and they're made up of a couple
of roots in Hebrew, sometimes one or two put together, and that's just what they mean. So
Thank you. Okay, shameless plug here. This Sunday, we are doing a Zoom call. I hope to see you there.
Obviously, we'll be discussing what you learn in the Dead Sea Scrolls, so you could sign up for
the course now. There's 10 lectures. There's also bonus footage, lots of information, packets to read
from. You'll really walk away having a better grasp of the Dead Sea Scrolls and how to understand
this from Dr. Tabor. You can also go and sign up for his blog. So you go over here and say,
I'm not a robot unless you are a robot. If you're a robot, you know, don't click I'm not a robot,
but if you aren't a robot, click I'm not a robot, put your email in there and go ahead and subscribe
over there. He's always dropping some interesting stuff recently. The second largest interview on
Bart Ehrman's podcast is the one with Dr. Tabor. I usually don't like to brag, but I had to brag
on that one. You had to brag on that one. You also got the YouTube channel, so people can go subscribe.
You're almost at 50,000. Yeah, I like to hit it today. Let's get those numbers up. Let's get those
numbers up. Get it 50k. What was I when I met you? I think I was 3,000, wasn't I?
Something like that. I think it was, yeah, it was really small, really small, and you've come so
far. I thought that was big though back then. I thought 3,000 people want to hear me. Wow.
Let me, I have one video that has like 800,000 views and I'm still trying to figure out how that
could be, but did somebody just sit there all day? As Bart said, I know I've paid my relatives to
do it for hours, but 800,000, that seems like a lot. I'm starting a poll just giving people
a few minutes just to be able to, I'd like to know anyone in the chat who signed up for the
Dead Sea Scroll course. So if you have, if you haven't, no judgment, let us know where you're at on
that. If you signed up for it and I'm looking forward to it, James, because my hopes are people
enjoy learning these things from you and then you're motivated in saying, okay, there's lots of
students, people really do want this. I'll make more courses. We'll do more deep dives into several
different avenues of material. That's my hope. So we did get a super chat. You want to hit that
and then we can come back and see what the votes are at? Yeah. Okay. Here we go.
Atif Bengesh, forgive me if I butchered your name. I am a thief who came at night and stole
his mother's heart. That day, Stormtip came from the east. It was October 12th, 1979. Who am I?
His kingdom is in the clouds soon to be revealed.
I don't know. Help me out. I don't know. Anyone know the answer to this? I mean, it sounds very
jesus-y. You know, his kingdom is in the clouds, that kind of stuff. But as far as 1979, I don't
remember that as a date, a big date for, I'm trying to think, 1979. Someone said Jim Jones.
I think Jim Jones was 79, maybe. Not sure. Vrion says that is a riddle. I cannot solve.
Is Atif going to tell us or do we have to pay him $10? Someone tell us the answer here. All right.
Make sure you voted. I'm giving you five seconds, five, four, three. You know, there's a delay,
by the way. Two, one. Did you vote? How many people you got out there, Derek?
I'm about to end the poll. I just wanted people to be able to get their vote in
to before because there's a small delay. All right. Let's go ahead and do it now. I hope
everybody voted. I see the toll changing each second. All right. Here we go. Here we go. In poll.
Sorry. You didn't make it in the kingdom. Now you're going to be outside banging on the gate doors.
All right. Have you signed up for Jesus and the Dead Sea Scroll Course? 62% said no.
And 37% said yes. There's only 27 votes. So it wasn't a lot. I'm not going to get him voted.
See you Sunday. It's noon Eastern. We had to pick a time. It's never perfect for people.
You could cynically say, yeah, what did you try to hit the church time?
This is when Christians go to lunch after services, right? To the cafeterias or something.
But it really has to do with trying to pick a time that can fit people worldwide to some degree.
And Sunday is more likely a day off than Saturday for people. So that was kind of how we
chose that. And it's worked pretty well. How did James, his Jewish movement,
disappeared? And what happened to the Jewish followers of Jesus? Oh, yeah, that's a great one.
Well, we can trace them for quite a while. They were across the Jordan on the east side for a while.
Some church fathers that hate them, track them for us. Jerome, particularly epiphanious,
fourth and fifth century fathers. So they're considered heretics. They call them ebionites.
We think that they, some of them end up in Arabia and had a tremendous influence on Islam.
It makes Muslims very upset to mention this, because if they're very fundamentalist,
they would say that the Quran and Muhammad have no historical influences whatsoever,
because the angel Gabriel doesn't go by what some ebionites believed. But we can find elements of
ebionite ideas within Islam, particularly the idea of praying toward Jerusalem and the Sabbath
being a holy day. And we do know there were Jewish communities, but there are also some elements of
Islam, some of the tales and stories and different kinds of traditions, hadiths that
have to do, that seemed to parallel the ebionites. If you know Robert Eisman, who's done so much on
James, his expertise is actually not early Christianity, it's Islam. His PhD is in Islamic
studies, Near Eastern Studies. And he's done a lot on that. I think his dissertation might have even
been on that. And then he became a Dead Sea School Scholar and worked on New Testament materials.
But Eisman's well known probably to your audience. But I think they mainly disappeared by
a redefining of what it is to be part of Israel. And we know it starts with Paul.
From what we can tell James would say, that to be part of Israel, you undergo either birth or
some sort of a conversion and join the Jewish people or the Israelite people if you want to be
broader. Whereas Paul would say, no faith in Christ makes you of the seed of Abraham.
And the country Abraham promised is a heavenly country. And so you can see what's happening here.
And then Augustine comes along and puts a cherry on the top of that cake
by saying, well, actually, the church is the kingdom then. And the church is the new Israel.
And Isaiah is being fulfilled in the church. Right. And you begin to allegorize everything.
And it's not that far from your preterism, Derek, it's a more Catholic form of it. But it
essentially takes all of those elements that most people would read as referring to the
nation of Israel and their history and reads that as applying, quote, spiritually. It's
a odd word to use because I'm not sure what that means. You know, I'm going to apply that spiritually.
First of all, I object to the term because it implies superiority. Like you have a
earthly interpretation or a literal interpretation. You know, it's pejorative,
but I have a spiritual interpretation. Sounds like mine's higher or better
when actually creating a world of peace and justice would be pretty spiritual. I think
wouldn't mind having it right now where the wolf was with the lamb and the lion and the bear were
together and nobody harmed each other and the nations were not at war. That could be right here
on earth and it would be pretty spiritual if it could ever happen. It does seem to be the goal
of good people around the world. It's what they say constantly. You know, why can't we have a world
of peace and justice? So anyway, James, I love you. Thank you so much for your time. The hard work
you're putting in. I hope people will go sign up and join us for the upcoming zoom this weekend.
I'm trying to think of this October 1279. What happened in 79? There is some stuff that happened,
of course. Oh, no, no, no. You're talking about the, they were talking about like
going back up, saying something about I am the servant. You will hear it appearing from New
York City. A sun will rise. It will shine and you shall see. But who is saying this? The person
who's super chatted, a thief. Does he think he's it or he wants us to do it? I don't know. Yeah,
it sounds like it. Oh, I have a file, Derek, or maybe I should teach a course on this.
Messiahs I have known. I have a file on Messiahs, like people that have written me.
I get five, six page handwritten letters. And they tell me
I'm Jesus, I'm this, I'm that. Right. And as Jonathan Smith once said paraphrasing,
I think Gershom Shrolem or somebody, he said, you know, the study of magic is nonsense,
but the study of magic is scholarship. So lots of these, you get it? So lots of
these crazy ideas, I think are pretty crazy people in various mental places claim to be
these different figures and so forth. But there's actually a way to study those kinds of things,
to try to understand what are some of the psychological states of mind that lead to that.
And it actually can be quite enlightening, not making fun of the people. I'm not really going
to do a course on it, but I've got a thick file I call my Messiah file. I've got it over here in a
box. It's probably over 200 letters I've collected over the years from what we would call crazy people.
And that's not necessarily insulting. Remember Jesus, the relatives go, he's crazy, get that guy.
Right, right, right. It's just like somebody that thinks they're the person.
You know, my list of engagements with people who have written me are going to be,
they're going to pale in comparison to yours over the years, but we kind of talked about
this once offline. So you have quite a few? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Look, I very openly say
I come at this kind of, you know, coming at it with a naturalist angle of understanding these
religions. I don't think there's any magic. I think they're manmade. I think that humans have
made them and adapted them and molded them. And I think that a lot of this is in the mind.
That doesn't matter. People see my heart. They see that I'm a human who cares.
I get these emails about how I'm chosen. You know, like you'll see, you know,
like there's just all these things and that there's some messenger and, you know,
there's always something there. And I get this all the time from people. And then sometimes
I get these like death threat type, like I'm coming to crush you, enemy, serpent's head,
devil worship. Yeah, I had a lot of those during Waco. In fact, one of them I had to turn into
the FBI because it was a package that was ticking. And I had to go pick it up at the
campus post office. And they said, Dr. Tabor, this is ticking. Do you want us to call the
authorities? And I said, absolutely. And somebody had made me a clock, you know, carved it out of
wood and had, you know, the backup really nice. Yeah, I think I put it in my office for a while.
But they left it running. So when it arrived, it's like,
and they didn't mean any, they didn't mean anything. But now I had my favorite is,
I think this is harmless. But I did turn it into the FBI at the time because I was getting a lot.
That was from helping work with David Kourish on the Waco stuff, which I did, you know,
trying to get him to surrender and so forth. Yeah. And some people loved it, help, you know,
some people love David Kourish for his sort of militant anti-government stance. Right. But other
people, of course, said, well, you're a cult apologist, you know, you're trying to defend
some crazy person like that. And this one was, let's see, something like you're definitely
headed for the fires of hell. And it's going to be hot and it's going to be forever and ever.
And I will do all I can to make sure your trip comes soon.
That one I took is like, I'm willing to face, you know, whatever judgment there might be.
But I'd rather not be hurried along before my time, if you know what I mean. So that one scared
me a little bit. If you ever want to laugh, there's a video on YouTube to Richard Dawkins,
as we all know. It's called Love Letters from Christians.
I laugh so hard, like they are so hateful. It's like, you gathiest, like they call them a gathiest,
like all this, they're trying to be derogatory. I can't wait to see you cook in God's broth
from my watchtower in heaven. And it's like, what is wrong? Oh, anyway, I can be bad.
And yet, so many people have been spiritually inspired and strengthened,
think of Albert Schweitzer and people like that by studying religion.
Absolutely. We had a couple more here. People last minute,
Festum Boyle says, why aren't more efforts made to hunt for the copper scroll treasures
seems important. Oh, well, that's a good one. Yeah. There's some new material on that, actually.
Shimon Gibson has a new article out that's just coming out. I'll cover it. And it's not covered
in the course, because I just got the article recently, he wouldn't let me put it in the course.
But that's the archaeologist I work with in Israel. And he has a different interpretation.
I'm not going to go over it now. But a lot of efforts have been made. So far, nothing has
turned up. I do take it as a serious treasure list. And I think a couple of the locations,
I'm pretty sure we can pinpoint. But the main one, which is the cave of the column, it's called,
it's up near Jericho. That I think we can locate. But unfortunately, it's collapsed. And the cave
that it talks about with two entrances, it actually is so covered with rubble. And remember,
it's in the occupied territory too. So you'd have to get unbelievable permission to do this.
And I don't know if the Israelis or the Jordanians or the Palestinians are into some
one going out with bulldozers and looking for buried treasure. It's just not going to happen.
But I take it seriously. It's a very, very mysterious document. And I think one of the,
what we could do in one of the Zoom meetings in the future, want people to get the main scrolls
under their belt, so to speak, first. So we just don't go for the exotic. And then maybe we'll do a
whole session, because I can email students anytime and say, hey, we're going to meet.
Next Zoom meeting, we're going to talk about the copper scroll. Here are three articles,
Joan Taylor, Shimon Gibson, whatever. Let's talk about it. And I do that in my Patreon group.
My Patreon group is kind of like a Tabor club, you might say, in the sense that
it's not so much to raise money, because you get the same thing even if you give a minimum amount.
But it's more to sort of like Bart charging to read his blog. He's just trying to keep
people away that are just surfing around like, I'll trash this guy, and I'll go here and trash
this guy, and that. There's a lot of that. So my Patreon is more a segregating way of getting
people together that really want to talk about this stuff with me. And I meet with them also once
a month. And that group, we often take topics like that, you know, just take a topic, do some
readings, and then talk about it. Right now, we're doing DNA, the new DNA studies that we've
inaugurated of the bones in the different Jewish asha works. So pretty exciting stuff.
Thank you. That's going to get delayed for a while. But
JC says love for Dr. Tabor. Thank you, JC. A thief said, don't be scared. You are my brothers. I
created the kingdom system in an app. That's what's releasing in New York City. Oh, okay.
So that feels a little bit less threatening. Thank you.
So he's a gamer, maybe? Seems more like just created an app. I don't know exactly what that
all entails. But I imagine an app on your phone kind of thing. Yeah. And then Grace says, would
you be okay with going to hell? Yeah, well, I would say let's talk about the word hell and the
word gay henna, the valley of henna and what it meant, especially in the Roman period. And
it actually wouldn't be too bad because it's kind of where we all go anyway. You don't torture
garbage. And bodies have to be either cremated or buried because they'll rot. And in the older
texts, that is hell. Did you know that when the King James was translated,
and the Apostles Creed during the Elizabethan period, remember where it says Jesus descended
into hell? And on the third day rose, everybody like, Oh my God, he went to hell. And that's because
the word hell in English was like that, which is our word whole. And you have other texts of the
period where somebody said, I put my potatoes and like they put them in the hole for the winter.
And it actually meant the grave. Bart Ehrman has a book on this, right? Talking about heaven and
hell. So the original meaning of hell, even in English was a whole, a grave. She always a grave,
basically. And so I guess I am going to that hell, because I think humans die. There are two
things I think about humans, Derek, and I'm going to apply this to you. You were born of a mother and
a father, egg in an ovum, or not an sperm. And I said an egg in an ovum, you'd be kind of weird.
All right, let me start over. You were born of a mother and a father, a sperm in an ovum,
and you're going to die someday. And I don't think those two affirmations take away anything
from anybody, including Jesus of Nazareth. In fact, I think those affirmations make us real.
So, right? I mean, you do know you're going to have an apotheosis, right? Like, that's,
that's for sure. Yeah. Well, I have studied it enough. I wrote a book on Paul's Ascent to Paradise.
Yeah, I've got it somewhere in my chaos here. They'll find it. Don't worry. Yeah, go to Amazon.
Constellation. Last one, please, everybody. I got to let James go because he's definitely got a day
ahead of him. I've got some work to go do, too. I've got to go follow the news. I'm in touch with
so many friends in Israel, and there's so much going on right now. And I have a question for
another day. Was violence used between competing Christian groups after the death of Jesus,
murder tactics and confiscating plus destroying their literature?
Well, after the death of Jesus, when you get, I certainly don't think there was any record of
violence in the first few decades. But when you get into the second and third century,
the rhetoric becomes so violent that you have to wonder. And then we do finally have tales of
competing Christian groups that are so damning each other to hell that you get that kind of idea
that I mentioned where like, you're going to hell and I'm going to speed it up a little bit.
Right. You know, one of the, if you think about it, probably the craziest thing about
Christianity that could have ever developed is after Constantine, particularly, that you could
have a Christian army. Think about that. Think about it. It's just astounding. A Christian army
that would go kill in the name of Christ and literally slaughter masses of people, men, women,
and children. You know, the Muslims, Saladin was welcomed by the Jews. Why? Because the
Crusaders had killed all the Jews and all the Muslims. So we think of Islam as, oh, it's a
very militant religion, which it can be, of course. But you should talk to Shaman Gibson. He's an
expert on the Crusades. Our site, we're digging in Jerusalem. We've uncovered really important
Crusader ruins and what the siege of Jerusalem was like during the Crusader period. And the way
Shimon puts it, he's really my colleague, my teacher on this stuff, because he's an expert.
You can Google him, Shimon Gibson. He's amazing. Probably one of the best archaeologists in Israel.
And he says nobody was spared. Like the local population in Jerusalem when the Crusades took
over, you kill them all. Because basically Muslims and Jews are unbelievers. So it was a kind of
very verse thing. But Jews had a hard time under certain periods of Muslim rule. There's no doubt
about it. But generally, they were allowed a minimum of rights. Whereas Crusader Jerusalem,
they're Christ killers. So why would you let a Christ killer live? And why aren't they converting?
Yeah, I remember, I think it was a scholar named Shelley. I can't remember her last name. She wrote
like a deep commentary on acts. And she actually pointed out fourth, fifth century. I can't remember
the historical situation exactly. But a group of Christians, this is post, they've become militant,
go and actually massacre the Jewish community because they read acts. Acts is so clearly
bent on every time a Christian is accused. It turns out to be a Jew's fault, like a non-Christian Jew.
And so it's so bent on, well, Paul was actually innocent. Guess whose fault it was? These lying
Jews who keep instigating to try and get them killed, turns out it's them. And so that propaganda
in acts is so powerful. You know, they're very good books on Christian anti-Semitism that
been developed and you can find them easily. They're pretty hard to read. They're pretty hard to read.
But isn't it ironic that a religion that started with what we call Sermon on the Mount stuff,
you know, love your enemies, do good to those that persecute you would turn out to have armies
that like chop heads off people or the Inquisition. If anybody, I mean, we're just wondering here,
we got to go. But if anybody has read or seen the film, The Disputation,
which is a debate in Spain, I believe it's in the 1400s, between Pablo Cristiano
and the rabbi and the rabbi was forced to debate the truth of Judaism over against Christianity.
And it was made by the BBC. You can still find it like bootleg editions. I think it's even on
Amazon. It's not real high quality because people keep copying it. But they showed it on the BBC
and it caused such a stir. They took it down because the rabbi wins the debate, basically, for sure.
And Pablo Cristiano is the Christian and he used to be a Jew and converts to Christianity.
And anyone who watches, these are transcripts of the actual trial called The Disputation.
And when you watch it, you just go like, whoa, wow, the Jewish guy won. He like refutes everything
that the Christian priest said. So that's kind of tough.
Check that out. And then JC says, eat some some raw saffron. It will help.
Oh, wow, the saffron coming out again. There you go.
James, any final words from you before we see this guy?
Well, I hope to see people in the course and in subsequent courses. And I want to come in,
you, Derek, Flattery will get me everywhere, maybe, or nowhere. But I think you have created
with your wife, whom I know well, and really appreciate for her amazing work.
You've created and your family that supports you, you've created a community
on YouTube that is like no other. And you're only starting really, you're only starting.
I don't even know where you're going to go. But you really have because I don't know anybody else
that is brought together for the common person. All of these amazing professors and researchers
that usually would only be heard by people in their classrooms. And you've had some of them
on countless times, so they become familiar and gotten them to offer courses and so forth.
So I guess what I'm saying is you're, you're kind of the Bart Ehrman of the people.
There's Bart as a scholar has represented at least a certain mainstream scholarship,
probably to a wider audience than anybody of our generation. But I think you have done that with,
in your own way, from the other side, meaning you're in the audience listening.
And you've said, well, I have a lot of people with me. Can we come in together? And I think it's
phenomenal. I hope people will keep supporting you to do. That's an amazing compliment. Every
possible thing. Well, and you're always so fair with people. You're so fair with people.
Thanks, James. I really do appreciate you and the courses that we've done. I'm hoping more people
sign up, more people will continue to get your books. And I always get great compliments.
I want to push another course, Robin Faith Walsh's course. You know, Robin comes across sometimes
as maybe even shy or unassuming, you know, like she's a younger scholar. And she said to me once,
God, you've written 10 books. I've barely written one. And, you know, you know so much. And I think,
God, you know as much as I do on a lot of things. But she has a course, I believe. I'm not just
trying to promote her second course ready, which is on the gospel. Yeah. But scholars like this,
too, that I like you've had the crossings and you had the Dale Allison's and the Paula Friedrichs
and Elaine Pagels. Should I go on, you know, people, people that ever you've had Bart, you've had just
about, but you also have had younger scholars that otherwise would probably not even be heard.
And yet this new generation of scholars, they're standing on Miller as another one that you've
promoted a lot, that don't get the attention that they need to get. And yet the work that they're
doing is just astounding. And I don't know anywhere about you where people can, like, you can't go
to Florida and sit in Robin's classroom. You can take a course from her. James, me and Robin amazing
in her. You're I love that I lived near you because you actually inspired MVP courses to even
birth itself into something. I was like, how can we you were the first guy that I was like,
I had already started this weird thing that nobody was doing. And that was get on a plane,
bring your backpack equipment, fly to these people, sit in their living room and look weird.
Hey, to their kids and go, I'm going to spend eight hours harassing. I love you sitting on the couch
with Cross and to me, crossing the wisdom and that and the goodness of his spirit and everything
and the ethics and you got to talk about his story once. It's so funny because you're literally
sitting on a couch. His feet and you're here. And it's so weird. It's just amazing. Like fireside
chat with Dom Cross and well, he was so cool. We went and got, you know, coffee hung out. He's a
funny guy. Like, but all of that evolved into, Hey, James, can I come to your office, by the way,
for those who've never been to James's office. It is like, it's like a little museum in a way.
And so I get into your office. We're sitting there. There's actuaries. There's anxious.
This is just the room at home I use because I don't want to drive to the office all the time.
But yeah, it's a pretty cool office. It was really cool. You started that and I saw it and I went,
you know what, let's do this more. And so then I flew to see Robin and then I flew to go see
Delcey Allison, Jr. up there at Princeton. Then I flew and I flew and I flew and now we're even
flying scholars in Dennis McDonald. And also Dennis, Dennis, Dennis and I go back a long way and
we've had, we had a couple of really good encounters in Europe once at a conference where he,
my late son, David, who passed away four years ago, was there with us. And I have a picture
of Dennis and David and I and my other son, Nathan, sitting around in Vienna, Austria.
And my boys just loved him so much, you know, like, oh, it's one of dad's friends. It'll probably be
boring. And so I got to know Dennis personally. And then over the years I've studied his material.
I've got his big magnum opus over there on the table, which I haven't read yet completely.
My problem is just, you know, I'm 77 years old. And I feel like I'm 30.
And yes, you do. I really do. And I'm very
Outrunning me and Ryan when you were here. I was like, I can't keep up with you.
But anyway, I just, there's so many things I want to do still that I hope to do,
but I have to really prioritize. Yeah, like there are 20 books right now that I would die to read,
but I have to decide which to go first. You know, like what, because I also have a certain
track that I'm on in terms of, like I have tons of Dead Sea Scroll stuff that I want to read.
Right. I'm like here with the Dead Sea Scrolls, but there's all this new material coming out. So
I can't just read all day. So James, this has been a wonderful little just having fun expressing
ourselves. I hope we didn't bore people. And, you know, I hope nobody thinks, God, those two just
sitting flatter each other for half an hour. That's not very helpful. But it's, it's history,
though. James, what's happening is going to be on YouTube. And I mean every word of it. And I know
you do too. Yeah. And I got to meet your family too. And so, but Ryan, I just want to brag on Ryan.
Ryan, to me, is almost like a tech genius. I didn't know this side of her. Like she was working on
Bart's courses a little bit, helping him with some, and I think like, how would you know how to do
that? And she goes, Oh, I just like click around and figure it out and this and that. So I know Derek
always says the Queen of Misfission. But believe me, she's probably up. I know right where you are
now, because I've said it that day. She's probably up the stairs there, pecking away at that desk she
works at and doing just amazing things. She's my angel. Look at this course. Look at this course.
The beautiful design, the heading. Yeah, let me pull it out. She did all of that. Well, actually,
I don't have the course open. Let me. Yeah, she did all of that. So we give her. And you know,
the other thing, sometimes people who aren't as tech savvy, this is amazing to me with,
I'm going to brag on her. They're not very tech savvy. And they write things like,
well, I can't find, I got the link to the course, but and I tried it and it doesn't work or something
like that. Yeah. And then don't show the zoom link. Somebody might copy it. So okay, I got a zoom. Okay,
there you go. Might not be there yet. I'm just kidding. But anyway, and somebody like, well,
I made a password, but it doesn't work now. And you know, people get mixed up on things like this.
Right. Did you know that she, you probably know that she will write like an individual student
personally, an email and say to them, okay, what did you do? Tell me exactly, you know,
and help them get back on the course because people,
what kind of personal service is that? And I know she's very busy.
I'm going to tell you, just to be very frank, there's no words that express this. I mean,
I'm saying them, but they don't do justice. I could not do what I do. I would not have
myth vision. We would not have our second channel. We wouldn't have courses if it weren't for her.
We do the edits. Like you said, everything that Bart puts out from his YouTube to his courses to
everything we edit those, we, we do all that for him as well as our own materials. We are trying
to grow that. And if it weren't for her, honestly, I might could sit in front of this camera and talk
about a book I read. And that's about as much out of myth vision you'd get. If it weren't for her,
our children, we have three boys, I just wouldn't know what to do. Yeah. Well, you guys are exercising,
trying to eat right, stay healthy. So this is all good. Okay, everybody, take care. We'll see you.
Thank you so much. Never forget, we are myth vision.
