Continuing that thought, Dr. Miller, the Hebrews 11 faith hallofame that gets brought up with
Abraham, believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness and these various things we
have, but he believed God to bring him a child, his firstborn son, his wife was 99, she laughs
and Isaac's born the whole night. That list, the very opening of it from what I read in English,
and I've always memorized this from the King James verse, and faith is the substance of things
hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, meaning in simple dumb dumb terms, you have,
if anything, faith is believing against the evidence. In fact, it's like, if things are not
evident, I'm going to purposely believe in the opposite or the thing that isn't the case.
And in light of someone being 100 years old trying to have a freaking kid, let's be honest,
the evidence is against you overwhelmingly against you, and you're going to believe you're
going to have a kid a little bit loony, but nonetheless, that's the example set, right,
to believe contrary to evidence. But you want to parse it out a little more. So please do that for
us. Yeah. So we go back to the Greek word pistis. I think anyone that's studied any of your
viewers that they're familiar with this, if they've studied Greek. And so that particular word, it
gets translated into English as belief, faith, this kind of thing. And the problem with that is in
modern, like, say, enlightenment post enlightenment time, with the rise of science and this sort of
thing, it gets used in philosophy in a different way, a different way in a like, I believe that
gravity is affecting my ability to walk down the street. No, I don't think you know, I know that
that's a scientific truism. Now, it's up for debate, just how accurate that might be or what we might
mean by gravity. Those are discussions that are going on. But this isn't somewhere where I'm
indulging my mind in some sort of, you know, otherwise non evidenced, you know, this is a
perfectly evidence driven conclusion. It's not me indulging in some sort of make believe or
something like that. So a better example, let me give a bad example, but it's a bad example in a
good way that I think is very common to humans. Humans cheat on each other. This stuff happens
in relationships, right? Yeah, yeah. Now imagine you came home. I don't know why I came up with this
example of dirty mind. Anyway, okay, I'm doing it on purpose for for the world to kind of laugh with
me a little. You walk in, your wife's not dressed. There's underwear all around and there's men
underwear around men shoes that aren't yours, etc. And you come in and you go, and she's breathing
heavy, cheeks are red, windows open, like, and you're like, what are you doing? Nothing, nothing,
something's not right. And yet there's this cognitive dissonance that might come in where
you're like, but I love her. And I don't want to have my entire life ruined. And she probably
just made a really bad decision. This guy's probably running naked down the street with no
clothes, no shoes. Yeah, my wife just cheated on me. And she's like, no, no, no, you need to believe
me. Yeah. Okay, there you can use that example. And it could mean I have good evidence not to,
but I'm going to believe you anyway. That's a better example rather than, you know, I believe
that gravity is going to continue. And I'm not just going to fall upward out of the planet's
atmosphere. That's ridiculous. Yeah, yeah, it may be another idea would be, sorry, I took you there.
Yeah, that's quite an image. I hope I don't come home to that. But
yeah, I love my wife. But anyway. So I think that maybe belief in is a, you know, that little,
that might be a better, almost a better kind of lexical range in terms of what we're talking about.
You know, you believe in say, miracles, or you believe in ghosts, or you believe in leprechauns.
I mean, these are outlandish things that people ever is going to laugh at that. But you could also
believe in things that are taken a little bit more seriously. And so, you know, you could believe in
the Holy Spirit, you can believe in, you know, any number of things. And so belief in, I would say,
it kind of captures it more closely to what I would think of a Pistis. Now, it also includes the
idea of fidelity. And that is in my allegiance to someone would have Pistis toward the emperor,
this kind of thing, you know, Pistis towards your commander. And this kind of thing. And I think
that that also is part of the lexical range of what's going on in the New Testament.
But belief in, I think, captures the spirit of where we want to go with the discussion here
in terms of, did they believe in this and that? Yeah, they willfully indulged in the cultic world
proffered by that society in order to enter the through a conversion right. That was the conversion
right. That's how you get into the community. That kind of violation of your own psychology,
that step. Now, they didn't see it that way. They saw it as I am ascending to this. I'm entering
this, I want, I'm going to start asserting this is true, confessing. And, and the idea of like
having to marshal evidence for that was unnecessary, really. And so you just wanted to show your
philosophy was better, or something kind of like what Justin's doing, he's confessing, it's in his
confession, or his apology. Right. Not to say that, hey, this one's literal and yours aren't as
you've shown. It's more like, no, our philosophy is better, more accurate, we've got a better guy,
you know, that kind of stuff rather than. Right. Yeah, he's more ancient. He's got a, you know,
more prophecy about him, which, you know, we can get into the silliness of some of that. But it was
taken seriously in terms of his credibility and people like that. But it did not rise to the
level of historiological argumentation, or the kind of justifications that it feels like people
in the modern time here are falsely looking for and trying to assign to this. Thank you.
I hope you liked my dad, Richard Miller, in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe,
and never forget, we are Miss Vision.
