If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, there are different
tiers, as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much.
Don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
Well, even in a fictional story, it's useful for historical purposes because of the factor
of verisimilitude, that even fiction has to agree with the presuppositions of the readers.
If you say something that's going to provoke people to say, that's not right, that kind
of thing doesn't happen, then you're destroying the believability of the fictional story.
That doesn't mean that this fictional story wasn't fictional and that all these things
happened, but this kind of thing must be within the realm of reader expectations.
Something like this used to happen, or you're just ruining the plausibility of the thing.
If somebody, if you're reading what seems to be just a detective story, and Sam Spade
suddenly is shot at by the gangsters and the bullets bounce off his chest, and then he
arrests him and nobody mentions him again, what the hell is, couldn't happen, what is
this, Superman?
No, you're just having the detective involved, get out of here.
It's just you're wrecking the plausibility of it.
If he gets shot, he's got to die or something close to it because that's what the reader
expects.
My painting teacher, Leon DeLew back at Montclair State College, he said, if you're composing
a painting and you make a weird shaped cloud and don't do it, but I actually saw it.
This is based on a photo, not the point.
The reader, the one viewing the painting is not going to think that is just, what the
heck, I've never seen a cloud like this.
You have to stay within the limits of realistic expectation.
Lovecraft said, if you're trying to shock the reader, then what you need to do up to
that point is to keep it within the bounds of plausibility, to make the reader feel secure
that he or she is living in the mundane world so that when you suddenly leap off the pier
and some horror is revealed, it's going to stun the reader because of this contrast that
you have carefully prepared for.
You don't just have improbable things happening beforehand or can't take it seriously.
The same thing would happen with this.
René Girard speaks of this in his books that he says the Oedipus myth has to do with the
scapegoat and that societies try to end crises of the war of all against all by arbitrarily
picking out somebody, perhaps a stranger, perhaps a cripple, whatever, and saying, well, this
guy is some sort of demon or witch and he has turned us against each other.
So it was neither side's fault.
If we can get rid of him, like the Bible says, cast out the scorn and contention will be
cast out.
Well, okay.
We killed him.
We crucified him, whatever.
Now we can live together peacefully.
And you know what?
It's amazing that this guy by himself could have achieved such a feat, making us turn
against each other, and then by the mere fact of his dying, healed the whole thing, you
know, maybe he was a savior and let's worship him and so on.
This happens again and again and it says a myth like the Oedipus myth, it doesn't record
something that actually happened one day, but it does presuppose the practice of the
scapegoat which is attested in ancient sources.
And so you can't say, well, we know that there was a historical Oedipus and this is how and
why he died.
No, nobody would do that, but it's like it's presupposing a custom that was well known
at the time.
It makes me think of the narrative in Acts.
I really think it's interesting.
The Holy Spirit falls on them, they're all speaking in tongues, the story keeps going.
And what happens?
The typical, right?
The typical church is beginning and if it appears, Jews are coming in like by the boat
load, especially in Acts chapter two.
The story goes on and then out of nowhere, the unbelievable shock of jumping off the
pier happens.
The unclean becomes clean and you see this Gentile Cornelius received the Holy Spirit.
He shouldn't have got it because he was supposedly unclean.
Of course, God reveals to him, no, do not call unclean what I call clean.
Now to an audience or someone reading this, even though it's fiction, it needs to make
sense to some degree and the person watching it is shocked just as much as Peter when they're
reading this because it's like, what?
This is why he tells the story three times and makes Peter skeptical beforehand because
he has this vision where he is simply told, don't worry about the non-kosher food, God
declares a kosher.
Well, he doesn't know what to make of that because it is so outrageous, in fact, it's
hilarious.
When I rise, Peter killed and he said, nothing doing, Lord.
I mean, you're going to say, well, God, you're wrong.
I'm right.
So his skepticism is to anticipate the readers and then he retells the story two Cornelius
and we get it again.
And then he's called on the carpet in Jerusalem and they say, Peter, what are you doing?
Are you out of your mind preaching to Gentiles?
He says, I know what you mean.
I felt the same way, but listen to what happened.
And they say, son of a gun, I guess it's true.
God's opened the door of repentance even to the gore.
And so it's all, it's saying to the reader, I know what you're thinking, but believe me.
And so it's the same idea that's artistic.
It's like every episode of the X-Files and every episode of House where Mulder or House
has this unbelievable answer or solution to a problem.
And though they know he always does, they're still skeptical, you're crazy, that can't
be true.
Oh, I guess it is.
Are you time?
You're not going to trust him after a while, no, because in that frame of reference we
need the skepticism to help the reader believe it.
