Professor Kraus, Derek Lambert, MythVision Podcast. I'm the host. I have a question for you. Many
people talk about the design of the universe. They look at this universe and they see mathematics,
they see structure, and they use that as an argument for a mind or a God or a creator looking
at the universe itself. As someone who's a theoretical physicist, in what way does your
work potentially help answer this question of, was this really all chance? When it comes to
design and fine tuning, in what way does your work actually come in and kind of debunk the notion
that a perfect, all-powerful designer created the world, the universe,
everything that we see? Is there a way to answer that question?
Well, that's a good question. In fact, recently I wrote for Inference Magazine a
long article along with one for the Globe and Mail in Canada on how poorly designed the universe is.
People look around and they say, wow, the universe if it had different properties,
we wouldn't be around. The same is true for the Earth, and that used to make people think that
the Earth was designed for life. But in fact, what we understand after Darwin is that life evolved
to fit the circumstances, the environment in which it could evolve in. And so it's not too
surprising that life forms on Earth, fit perfectly well on the Earth. It's not too surprising that
life on Earth fits, if you wish, with the universe, which if it were any different, life on Earth might
not be possible to have arisen. But it doesn't imply design any more than the fitness of life on
Earth implies design of life. Natural selection works very well. And as I often say, it's like
remarking on the amazing fact that my feet are exactly long enough to crush the floor. If they
were a little shorter, I wouldn't be touching the floor. If they were a little longer, it would be
under the floor. But more than that, if you look at the universe, most of the universe is not well
designed for us. Most of it's uninhabitable for beings like us, or life forms like those on Earth.
And in many ways, the universe is constantly trying to kill us. We're lucky we've survived
this long as a species. But even the fundamental parameters that look like they're fine to an
the most famous one, which I discussed about as early as anyone, is the energy of empty space,
which seems to have a very peculiar value that we can't understand. And it was pointed out by the
late physicist Stephen Weinberg that if it were much larger that value, then galaxies wouldn't have
formed and life wouldn't have formed. And some people say, wow, that's evidence that the universe
was designed. But on the other hand, it turns out if that weird quantity was zero, which is the value
we always thought it would have, which seems natural, more natural in many ways, the universe
would actually be more conducive to life. So I guess I like to think of the argument that Carl
Sagan used instead of, you know, if the universe is designed for life, it's an awful waste of space.
The universe, so you could just have this Earth. And the other aspect is,
if the universe were different, and had different properties, sure, we wouldn't be around. But we
can't say that there's no life that'd be around. It could be life of a very different form. And that
life could speculate and wonder why that universe was so well designed for it. As I often say,
it's like an intelligent fish, you know, wondering why the universe has made a water. And the answer
is, well, if it wasn't, the fish wouldn't be around. And so, even here on Earth, we've discovered
what are called extremophiles, life forms that exist in situations we never thought it would be
possible for life to exist in, boiling hot water, acidic environments. And so if that's any guide,
it suggests that life in many ways can evolve in many different environments. And if things were
very different, then we might find that we wouldn't be here, but maybe we'd be some other sort of
intelligent being with very different properties. Clearly, people have it backwards, the same way
people before Darwin used to have it for living systems on Earth. The universe wasn't designed
for life. Life evolved, our life, the life we measure here on Earth, evolved because in a form
that's consistent with the physical properties of the universe in which it evolved. That's not so
surprising. There's no evidence, as far as evidence of purpose or design, as I say, there's nothing
that suggests that there's any specific design in our location. It certainly seems to be rather
random and most other locations in the universe, as I say, are not so fortunate. You would have thought
that a being that designed a universal life would make the whole universe hospitable for life in
one way or another. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you enjoyed that show. I have hundreds of other
ones on the Patreon, letting you guys know you can help us continue doing what we're doing at
MythVision Podcast. Also, you can have questions asked to the academics that I research with
and I interview. Your question can be asked in a 1080p high quality video that might end up on
YouTube. Like I said, ladies and gentlemen, I want to expose the cults, show these superstitions for
what they are, and the errors within these texts and all of these religions to help people realize
they're all man-made and that we have what it takes. All we need to do is pull together. Let me
tell you something. The religious world has the financial backing that those skeptics, such as
myself, don't have. So if you want to help and be a participant, you can for a little, a little bit
a month. It's not much. If you want to go more, you can. But like I said, this is how I can keep
the lights on for MythVision.
