Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are live here at MythVision podcast and first Timothy is
as real as a $3 bill.
Before I introduce our guest here, who is a professor, he is a PhD, who also knows the
New Testament quite well.
I just want to make one little point, and I know this from all the research we've done
here at MythVision.
The academics, I love learning from critical scholarship and various voices on this, but
there's one thing they have in common, while they might disagree over little nuances and
differences, and that is how common it was to write gospels, letters, create fictional
accounts in Paul's name and conversations between the Apostle Paul and other people.
Paul was this almost archetype for different social identity groups in early Christianity,
and anyone who is researching this, even the most staunch fundamentalist Orthodox Christian,
who will have to look at Marcian and say what heretic, of course, is what their position
would typically be if they're really radical, has to recognize how he is using Paul.
Paul becomes kind of this figure.
For me, this is why I think there's a historical Paul to begin with, why make up the complete
guy out of thin air.
But nonetheless, that's not the point of today's episode.
Today's episode is going to show you forgeries are not only done in Paul's name as if Paul
wrote them, but oftentimes are sophisticated.
They're not just writing in Paul's name.
You're going to see a scholar who's been dealing with this history behind these letters
and forging and stuff, and we're going to dive deep.
There's been Eric from Testify, I think he's watched the videos, and he kind of wants to
show why we think this is a forgery.
By the way, let me introduce our guests so that we're not I'm not bloviating here at
the intro.
Dr. Joseph A.P. Wilson, welcome back to MythVision.
How are you?
I'm doing very well, and just so people know a bit about me because my website isn't up
to date.
I am currently a lecturer in the Department of Classics Classical Archaeology at the University
of Massachusetts Amherst, where in the past I've taught a lot in religious studies and
ancient history and other disciplines.
I am not primarily a New Testament scholar, but my undergraduate mentor, my thesis director
as a bachelor's degree student 20 years ago was, he was deeply embedded in this stuff,
and so I recently came back to it after decades because I became interested in this stuff.
I'm more interested in the social historical context for early Christianity rather than
the texts per se, but the texts are absolutely artifacts too.
So we have to look at both the content of the texts and as well as who made them and
where and why.
Let's give the context for this live stream first, let's spawn this live stream.
I'm flying back from California, I took my kids to Disneyland, and Joe says, hey, and
for those who don't know me and Joe friendly, so we're friends, he's like, call me Joe.
Joe goes, we have to do a live stream, and we have to do it this next week.
And I'm like, okay, man, I'm in a jacuzzi going, all right, what's the time, what are
we doing?
And he's like $3 bill.
First Timothy's is fake, and I'm like, all right, this is great, I love the title.
And then this morning, I'm on my way to the gym, me and the Queen of MythVision are in
there walking, and I said, audio book, audible, Bart Ehrman forged, or forgery, counter forgery,
boom, found a chapter on Paul making up stuff, and holy frickin smokes, there's so much, so
much, and Eric has made I'm looking into this because I was responding to one of Eric Manning's
testify videos that was just released where he uses the undesigned coincidences as a way
of defending the authenticity of the pastoral epistles, which are both of the epistles to
Timothy and then the one to Titus.
So these are being defended in this video using the undesigned coincidences.
So my interest in this was because you had me looped into the chat feed for all your
scholarly friends who are interested in debunking this idea of undesigned coincidences.
So there's a secret society, everybody, just so we have like 15 gangsters.
So this is the second time I've taken a bite out of this apple.
The last time we were way off in Asian religions with Jainism, which was its own weird thing.
But today, the reason why is, again, I've published on the authenticity of 1 Corinthians
chapter 14, verses 34 and 35, and the controversy about the relationship between that and the
parallel passage in 1 Timothy.
So that's where the real versus fake Paul comes into my work.
And yeah, I just felt like I had to address this because I'm left scratching my head by
this undesigned coincidence thing.
And so I'm just going to hit a few of the issues.
We could really talk all day.
There's so many different aspects of the problem.
And unfortunately, most of the time when people do it really quickly, they only refer to some
of the evidence.
They don't refer to the really big betrothed.
So if we have time today, we can get into the context of second century, third century
Christianity, which is when these canonical norms are established, when which texts get
chosen for the Pauline corpus that stand for Paul.
And then you notice it's these dispute texts that in the later years become go-to texts,
right?
It's the ones that are the least likely to be authentic, that have some of the most
important points of doctrine that make like really, in other words, there's a reason they
were forged.
Yes.
These forgeries did not just come out of a vacuum because people were bored.
I imagine you're going to cover this, Joe, but just to point out, I hope everybody knows.
Not all Christians in the early church agreed on doctrines.
Did you know that?
Yes, there you go.
That's right.
Isn't that interesting?
That's exactly right.
It's these little basic things that you have to know how Paul gets used.
And it's like having saying, the president said to me, the president never said it, but
if I have that authority backing me in America or whatever, it might help my cause.
But it's interesting to see both groups use Paul saying different things.
So which is the real Paul?
Will the real Paul please stand up kind of thing?
And I just want to point out, Eric Manning's a friend of mine, though I know a lot of people
go, how?
We definitely disagree on these things.
But I'm hoping that he watches this and can enjoy what Joe brings to the table.
And by the way, I have no animosity whatsoever.
And I don't believe the undesigned coincidences stuff, but I think it's I'm glad we get a
chance to talk about it.
So thank you, Eric, for keeping this issue in the spotlight.
Awesome.
Are we sharing screen now?
Yeah.
If you want to go ahead and share, yeah, that's let me open mine and then I will go to full
screen view.
Nice.
Nice.
Thanks to everybody who hit the like button today here and hope you enjoyed this video.
So I have I have borrowed some little images out of his Eric Manning's testify video, which
talk about the basics of how he's applying the undesigned coincidences comment concept
to the question of the authenticity of the pastoral pistols, the latest and most disputed
pistol pistols attributed to Paul.
Are you sharing?
Are you playing your PowerPoint right now?
Yeah.
Can you see it?
It says it's showing all the side panel thumbnails still on my okay.
That's strange.
Okay.
So I just exited out and coming back in.
Let me see.
If you want, I can open it on my end.
If that helps.
No, let's see.
So what's are you seeing the screen change now?
Nope.
Nope.
So it's all right.
I don't know why it says Streamyard is sharing a window.
And if I do it, I won't have to look at my phone to keep it.
I understand that, which is really annoying.
I understand.
But on my end, it looks like it's working.
So nothing changed.
Nothing changed.
Sorry about that.
Okay.
So you can you can play it, but they could see your thumbnails one, two, three, four,
five.
You're on fire.
I can see that.
So oh, yeah, you're clearly off.
You're not at the beginning.
So unfortunately, when I, yeah, when I go to the full view, it's not.
So now are you seeing the changes?
You're seeing changes.
I'm seeing you change them, but I don't see the full screen PowerPoint.
If you'd like, I could do it on my end.
It's up to you.
It's about what you think works for.
I don't know why it's not working because it looks like it's working on my end.
Yeah.
It looks proper.
Well, I'm going to do it on my end.
You let me know and we'll just roll with the punches.
All right.
I'm going to do some fun stuff.
All right.
Here we go.
Yeah.
All right.
Let me know if you see full screen, we're going to start this bad boy and play from
start.
All right.
Did it take the full screen up?
It's showing the same view as before with the thumbnails.
And if the thumbnails don't bother people, we can just do it that way.
Well, I don't think it'll bother people.
Okay.
They just, they just get a sneak peek.
It's like spoiler alert, you know?
Yeah.
But they're so small.
They can probably can't.
I can't read that.
Oh, I do have glasses here.
I'm going to follow you then.
All right.
So essentially though, the notion of the undesigned coincidences is that there are these like,
these tiny details that are offhand details that connect like puzzle pieces to other documents
and that they're done.
Oh, what's that?
I had the wrong one up.
Go ahead.
Okay.
Yeah.
Connect like puzzle pieces to other documents and they're presented as hallmarks of actual
historical sources with historical evidence as opposed to fantasy works like fiction.
Fiction doesn't have undesigned coincidences.
That first premise really rubs me the wrong way because I am a science fiction fan.
So let me just describe like when I was a kid in the 80s.
This was before Star Trek, the next generation came out and you would read Star Trek novels
and occasionally a Star Trek novelization would have a cameo from a science fiction
character that wasn't even in the Star Trek universe.
So like you'd be reading a Star Trek novelization and then all of a sudden the TARDIS would
show up in a background scene in the book and you'd see and the character described
looking just like Dr. Who, the doc, the fourth doctor with the scarf would walk out of the
TARDIS, do something, go back inside the TARDIS and then the TARDIS would disappear.
And it was like, it was just a little unofficial crossover in an official Star Trek novelization
that was there for people like me who were sci-fi nerds who would recognize it, right?
Right.
But it was exactly like the undesigned coincidence in the sense that there was no like meaningful
reason.
It didn't drive the plot.
It wasn't a central feature.
It was just an insider's, you know what I mean?
Like it was a way for people in a subculture that are, you know, nerd sci-fi nerds to communicate
like that.
You see that, right?
It's like a, it's a background hook that is not, that's going to pass over most people's
perception, especially if they're not familiar with both franchises, if that makes sense.
Most of these examples of undesigned coincidences in the, in the Pauline epistles and acts,
which is where he's talking about really the way that the, the pastoral epistles relate
to the description of the Paul's biography and acts.
Those are, these three epistles are synoptic.
Just like the synoptic gospels, 1st Timothy, 2nd Timothy and Titus, why do we think that
they're written by the same author who's different from, why is it, they talk about the pastor
as the guy who wrote these three epistles as distinct from Paul because they hang together
so tightly.
They're like really, really literary independent interdependence.
Now, to be fair, let me say I'm a skeptic that they're all by the same author because
there's too many thematic differences between them.
I think what happened is this, and I make this case in my earlier publication that we
talked about a couple of years ago, my publication in the Journal of Religions on 1st Corinthians.
I think that the oldest of the three is either Titus or 2nd Timothy.
I think that those are the, the, the core that Titus plus 2nd Timothy is like the original
duo of the pastoral epistles.
I think the forgery of 1st Timothy is brazenly worse.
It's got like, it's more unaligned than either of them.
And I think it uses both of them to craft itself.
So my, my hypothesis is that 1st Timothy, why do I say it's the fakest of all of them?
Why is it the least defensible?
Like every other document, you can make a case that Paul wrote it, but I think the case
for 1st Timothy is especially weak on numerous grounds.
And I think that 1st Timothy is probably inspired by 1st Corinthians, Titus and 2nd Timothy.
I think those are like the three main source texts that the, that the forger of 1st Timothy
is using.
And there's direct literary dependence, right?
And so why does 1st Timothy have the genre conventions of the letter to, the 2nd letter
to Timothy, but it's got the, like a lot of the content of Titus sort of like it's Titus
and 1st Timothy are like works of canon law.
2nd Timothy is a different genre.
2nd Timothy is a farewell discourse, right?
So there's slightly different literary conventions, but in terms of the framing language, in
terms of the way that the documents resemble each other, it's like, it's like a synoptic
process where you're looking just the way that the synoptic gospels are written one
at a time using the previous ones, right?
I think that that's the way the pastoral trilogy is.
It's a synoptic trilogy, in my opinion, where the later, the last author is not necessarily
the same as the 1st author, but they form a chain of textual interdependence.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, absolutely.
Most of these allegedly undesigned coincidences are directly derived by the forgery attempting
to imitate the earlier sources plausibly.
Why do you copy from them and change a little bit so that it seems plausible so that your
audience will buy it, right?
It has to look like the other stuff close enough that people will, you know, it's like a fake
Rembrandt.
It has to look enough like a real Rembrandt that somebody's going to pay you the money
that you're asking.
I can already just real quick, two things.
I can already hear the person going, oh, see, it sounds like it looks kind of like it,
though.
See, they're admitting, you know, but we need to be on equal setting, starting out and saying,
we get all of those who are trying to push this is authentic to at least admit Christians
in the early communities, they may not even call them Christians.
I don't know how far they are in terms of their Christianity.
Like I think when Christians identified as Christians, no matter if they were heretical,
whatever the category is, Christians to me.
But the point is, is people who claim to be Christians were doing this in Paul's name.
If we can get at least equal footing, whether they think this is authentic or not, we need
to have an agreement here, because if they can't even go that far that they're making
up letters, then we can't get anywhere to begin with.
The other thing I was going to ask you is, are you changing your image or is it still
the first image right now?
It's still the first image because I was just talking about the basic thing about undesigned
coincidences.
And so I'm skeptical of the concept because I think it's a redundancy.
Coincidences that are designed are not coincidences.
To design it means it's not a coincidence.
If it's a problem with the Gospels.
Yeah, these are designed coincidences and therefore they are not coincidences.
They are mostly forger's tells.
They're mostly the things that forgers do to cover their tracks and fail.
And so let's just really quickly talk about the difference between mechanical, linguistic
interdependency versus the natural kind of stylometric similarity of the undisputed letters.
So Paul's style doesn't have to be imitated.
He doesn't have to contrive his own style.
People have their own style and they sound like themselves naturally.
So when you write multiple texts, they don't imitate each other.
They just come from that authentic voice that you have.
And so therefore they resemble each other in an organic way that doesn't require like close
interdependence of phrasing.
Whereas the forgeries have in some ways they're too similar and in some ways they're too
different.
So they copy stock phrases and plug them in in key locations where you're like, OK,
that's too much like Paul.
And then later on, right, they deviate as they're going into their own direction and
making the changes they want to make, you know, what they're introducing the original
content that the forgery is there to endorse.
And that's where they go a different way from Paul, right?
So so like there, it doesn't have that sort of natural similarity that you see between
the undisputed epistles, which never directly imitate each other.
They all do something slightly different, right?
They all have their own unique purposes, their own unique contexts.
Occasionally he might borrow a stock phrase here or there or, you know, say something
similar to what he said before.
But in general, he's not.
He doesn't have to go back and say, where did I say this last time?
Let me make sure I use the same verb, right?
It's like he doesn't have to have he doesn't have to imitate himself.
And that is something that is, you know, a key to understanding here.
All the disputed epistles are on a kind of a spectrum between between the ones that
are widely disputed, like first hint, like the past world epistles.
Almost nobody believes that they're authentic.
And I'm not just talking about critical scholars, left wing scholars.
I'm known, conservative Catholic theologians, like father.
Uh, sorry.
Um, my brain is fried.
Uh, Jerome Murphy O'Connor, right?
He, Jerome Murphy O'Connor is a classic example.
He, he loved second Timothy.
He thought second Timothy was authentic, but he rejected first Timothy.
There have been a number of critical, particularly conservative critical
scholars in the last 15 years who've made arguments for the authenticity
of some pastoral epistles, but not all of them.
First Timothy is the one that is the hardest to defend on the merits.
It doesn't have very much going for it.
If you're a text critic trying to say it's real, but the person who's the most
concerted effort is Luke Timothy Johnson, I believe, and he still mainly says that
look how similar to Corinthians it is, right?
Like, wow, it's really similar to Corinthians.
Well, guess what Corinthians was the most popular early Christian tax.
First Corinthians was that was the most widely circulated early, early Christian
text.
It is the single most influential early Christian tax in the sense that all
other Christian authors were inspired to some degree by it.
So if a fake Pauline epistle sounds like first Corinthians, it just means it was
written by a literate Christian in the second century.
That's all that means because you couldn't be a literate Christian in the
second century century and not know first Corinthians.
You could be, you could, you could have, you might not possess any other text,
except that one.
I mean, they're, they weren't being circulated as code, codices full of all
the books, right?
They were more likely to appear piecemeal, like you get some, but not all of the
canon as we know it.
And so individual authors didn't necessarily know all the texts.
They just knew the important ones.
And that's another indication of fortune.
We can see, for example, where did the pastor knows things that weren't in
circulation yet, right?
Where texts that didn't weren't universally known are known to the pastor,
to the author of the pastoral epistles.
That means that they are written late.
They're written after those documents are widespread, after Christians everywhere
are reading acts and Luke, right?
These are not rare texts anymore.
They're now not only there, what are they widespread, but they're considered scripture.
They've been elevated to the status of not just some guy's letters anymore.
These are like holy, holy texts.
And that's what they're imitating.
They're trying to, so it's, they're putting back in time.
They're like producing a new document that's pretending to be an old document.
And that's what all these forgers do down to the later medieval.
There's, I mean, the, the, the act of forging apostolic texts goes on down
through Christian history to the medieval period, like liturgical manuscripts,
left written, liturgical, liturgical manuals written in the medieval period
pretend to be written in the fourth century or the third century, right?
And to do that effectively, you have to figure out what a fourth century or
third century document should look like.
And then you have to have to do some technical skill, right, to come across effectively.
So ancient forgers could be skilled.
And I think what we're dealing with is I think that I'm leaning towards the fact
that Second Timothy is also a forgery.
It's just a much better forgery.
The author of Second Timothy is much more familiar with Paul's works as a whole, right?
Has a better grasp over the breadth of Paul's writings and the way and Paul's
situation in the church.
Second Timothy author probably has a more natural understanding of Pauline
Christianity as a whole.
Whereas First Timothy's problem, and this is what I'm going to get at,
is he's really kind of an outsider.
The author of First Timothy is somebody who I think is coming from a perspective
that is alien to the core of early Pauline Christianity.
And he's coming, he's trying to, he's trying to domesticate and
reform Pauline Christianity and turn it into something that it was originally not.
And I think that puts it in a different page than those other texts,
which are, which are just moving the needle slightly, right?
Right. First Timothy is like all the way across the board.
It's just out of, it's on a different planet from real Paul.
In my opinion.
This is a very interesting observation.
If we look at like acts and we compare them to Paul's letters, you find some
interesting, I think work being done by acts to reconcile and deal with the
problems in Galatians, for example.
And what do you do when you have Peter's vision?
You know, we'll talk to Bart Ehrman about this recently.
Peter's vision, he, he somehow actually submits to the teaching of Paul in this
respect that Gentiles and Jews can eat together in the Christian community
because we're equal and the whole their kosher, you can't eat with non kosher.
You know, no, these animals are clean, seems very using Mike Winger's words,
propagandistic, but purposeful in trying to correct and make Paul and Peter on
the same path.
And so I'm interested in seeing what you might bring up with that.
And the other thing is, is just again, I could see the temptation from a
fundamentalist point of view where you're defending God's word.
You believe this is true.
And so you want to go into the full maximalist case to try and say, let me
make all of it authentic.
Let me defend my castle.
I don't want to give one stone away.
Exactly.
I admit a single, single canonical text is a forgery.
If I admit a single, if I go too far like these minimal facts scholars,
dammit, the whole castle is going to come crumbling down.
I have to defend the indefensible.
Of course, they don't think it's indefensible.
Yeah, they're willing to go to the absurd and not even recognize some
of the clear, obvious, common sense observations.
That's right.
And so I think that, like, for example, what you're saying about acts, acts is
clearly trying to put a round peg into a square hole in a lot of sense,
in the sense that there's real, there's irreconcilable differences
between early Christian factions and acts has them all singing kumbaya.
Right.
And it's like trying to make this big tent thing.
And it does a pretty good job of it, honestly.
I mean, when you look at it, it's literary project is trying to craft a large,
unified Christian movement.
And it does so well.
And it does so.
And I think that the author is a sincere proponent of this and believes that,
yeah, well, you know, James and Paul and Peter really would have gotten along
if they had just had the chance and that we're going to we're going to be the
change we want to see in the community, right?
And like, so I but for the, for many other ways, acts and other early Christian
documents still maintain,
stay true to the core of early Christianity as a countercultural movement.
Right.
I didn't begin as a mainstream religion that was like practiced in the upper
echelons, where the later pastoral forgeries come in is at the time when it's
starting to go mainstream.
It's at the time when the religion needs to be adopted by a wider range of more
like middle class Greco-Roman people who are going to be
scandalized by the ways that real early Christianity was weird.
It was weird and non normative.
It didn't follow Greek customs.
It flaunted Greco-Roman norms in specific ways.
And so the past, the latest pastoral forgery for
Timothy, in my opinion, is is a project to make Pauline Christianity better fit
with Hellenistic,
Hellenistic cultural expectations.
Does that make sense?
So it's like we're moving, we're moving out of the
first century into the second century through the middle second century into the
third century. That's when Christianity's demographic footprint in the Roman
Empire grows and grows and grows.
The only way you can do that is if it's domesticated to a certain degree, if it's
turned into something that's palatable and for regular Greeks and Romans.
And so I totally agree.
And so I'm going to cross and says the same.
Yeah, it's heading to Rome.
It's so let's talk about.
So I'm going to highlight a few of Eric's specific under design
coincidences. In one case, he points out that Second Timothy talks about how
important Second Timothy's mother and grandmother are.
I mean, no, sorry, Timothy's, the historical Timothy's mother and grandmother
are praised as being pious and faithful women and his
upbringing from a child in the faith of his mother and grandmother is emphasized.
And so this is presented as like, why would a forgery bother to make Timothy a
mama's boy and to talk about how important his Christian or his Jewish Christian
mother and grandmother were?
That doesn't make sense, especially when we know that, you know,
it was a patriarchy where the man's the man's
pedigree was important coming down from the father's line.
If they're just making it up, why not present a good patriarchal model?
That's more likely historical.
Well, remember what I said about Second Timothy and First Timothy not having
the same perspective?
Gender is one of those issues.
Why? What is the one way that First
Timothy and Second Timothy don't hang together?
First Timothy is written by a misogynist, by a hardcore misogynist.
Second Timothy is not.
Second Timothy is more like the other epistles is it presents,
consistently presents women in positions of authority.
Right. So there's a disconnect.
And let's let's and so the reason why
Timothy's grandma is shown as an important leader in his life is because
that's actually one of the things about this that makes it sound like Paul.
Because Paul really did that.
Paul was constantly praising women.
He called women apostles and things like that.
So of course, real Paul or someone imitating real Paul is going to have him
talking up someone's female ancestors as the basis for their spiritual growth
and power, right? It's not.
So that's that's the main I think the gender issue is the major disconnect
between the brazen forgeries and the better forgeries or the gray area texts
that are like on the spectrum between authentic and unknown.
Right. You know what I'm saying?
So let me see. Where's the the next slide?
I'm sorry, I have to I'm doing too many things at once here.
So let's talk about the acts of Paul, which is a really important
proto-Orthodox text of the mid-second century.
And so it's ultimately rejected from the canon,
likely because it has a woman preacher in it, Thakla.
Thakla is Paul's like right hand woman in this thing and she goes out.
And so the reason why later proto-Orthodox authors like
Tertullian of Carthage ultimately decided it was a forgery and needed to be thrown
out is likely because they didn't like the way that it put women in authority.
But it portrayed Paul as endorsing women
clergy, as endorsing women as pastors and preachers,
which obviously contradicts with the view of
that presented by Paul in 1st Timothy, where he says women can't teach men.
Right. By the way, acts has Priscilla teaching
Apollos in a synagogue, right?
Acts 18 portrays.
So so the proto-Orthodox movement in the second century included
endorsements of women being allowed to speak in church and women being allowed
to teach men. We know this because the Bible contains it, right?
The New Testament includes references to women speaking and teaching in synagogues,
which is normal Jewish practice at the time, too.
Jewish women were not forbidden from speaking in synagogues.
So the fact that the Acts of Paul portrays this and the Acts of Paul clearly
engages with both of the pastoral epistles to Timothy.
So both 1st Timothy and 2nd Timothy are subtly hinted at throughout the Acts of
Paul. But here's the thing, 2nd Timothy is endorsed.
1st Timothy appears to be rejected in the sense that the author of the Acts of Paul,
anytime 1st Timothy's claims come up, it shows Paul and Thecla refuting them.
Does that make sense?
So this suggests that at this time in the church,
1st Timothy was disputed.
It wasn't uniformly agreed upon as being authentic Paul.
And it was and that wouldn't even been and we're not just talking about the Marcianites.
We're not just talking about the heretics here.
We're talking about within the church as a whole.
We're talking about within mainstream 2nd century Christianity.
And just for our viewers who may not even know,
Acts of Paul is not in your but this is not Acts of the Apostles.
This is a whole nother book is not in our canon.
It's the same genre as Acts of the Apostles.
Exactly. It's like it's it's it's an other there are other acts type books.
And it was briefly in the proto Catholic,
proto orthodox canon around the decades after it was written.
And we know this because I think it was endorsed by Hippolytus of Rome,
who was one of the first popes slash anti popes.
He's associated with the early proto orthodox movement.
So it was not like a Marcianite text.
It was a text that was meant for a proto orthodox audience.
It would have been read by proto orthodox people.
And it was rejected later, right?
At the time that 2nd Timothy and 1st
Timothy were absolutely being endorsed, it was being done away with.
And it's and the explicit reason why it was rejected by, say,
Tertullian of Carthage is he says Acts of Paul has things that
Paul rejects in 1st Timothy, right?
They cited 1st Timothy as the reason that the Acts of Paul was was a forgery.
Right? You can't have Paul doing that.
Look, look what he says in 1st Timothy.
So why does 1st Timothy exist?
This is we're getting it to the reason for 1st Timothy's existence.
It was to help purge the church of certain
things that were considered to be incorrect at the in, you know, as the
church becomes a more like established institution over time.
All right. So yeah, so that's why that's why 2nd Timothy has all these women.
Another point is that he makes that I think is is a pretty obvious
mistaken use of the
undesigned coincidences is he points out that Paul's itinerary, itinerary,
so his travel itinerary matches in 2nd Timothy 3, 10 through 11,
it matches Acts 13 and 14, where he goes from, you know,
Antioch to Iconium and then to Lystra, right?
So this is allegedly some kind of undesigned coincidence.
The problem is, is the dating of the pastoral epistles, in my opinion,
is typically a little bit too old.
Most people I think it's pretty solidly clear that the pastoral epistles are
2nd century and not early 2nd century, like early to mid 2nd century.
So like I think decades into the 2nd century is when these epistles were written.
I think there's a lot of evidence for that.
And that the reason why 2nd Timothy follows the itinerary in Acts is because
the author is reading Acts.
No way. Yeah, you've got to be kidding me.
The text is in front of them and they're able to say, first, he went here,
then he went here and then he went here afterwards.
And and the dating, I mean, again, I'm not going to say that all three
pastoral epistles were written at the same time, but I think that the case for
1st Timothy being written before 1 40 is weak.
Right. I think that 1st Timothy is is is
like mid 2nd century, just like Acts of Paul is mid 2nd century.
These are all part of that same
period of controversy in the church related to women's authority, related to
alcohol use, related to celibacy.
So these were and related to Marcy are Marcy on the controversy.
And where was Marcy on controversy in Rome?
Right. So this is the Roman church in the 2nd century that's blowing up around
a bunch of contentious issues.
And wow, Timothy just happens to solve all of them.
Right. 1st Timothy, it's like it's like a pill that's designed to fix every
controversy that's from around the year 1 45.
It's, you know, so there.
And so on.
And and the proof, of course, that at least 1st
Timothy was written after Luke acts is in.
Circulation is that 1st Timothy cites
the gospel according to Luke, or it could be cited.
He could be citing up earlier like Marcy and I,
proto gospel, because this passage is in Marcy and's edition as well.
But the 1st Timothy 5 18, where it quotes quote unquote scripture as
saying the laborer deserves his wages, that some people would say, oh,
that's like a paraphrase of Deuteronomy.
It's not a very close paraphrase of Deuteronomy.
It's it is, but it's what it is literally similar to is the Greek of Luke.
It's like the Greek of Luke and the Greek of 1st Timothy match very closely.
So I, one of them might be paraphrasing
Deuteronomy, but the fact that 1st Timothy is here apparently at
citing Luke's Greek as scripture means that it's next to impossible that he's
writing before the gospel according to Luke or a version of it, whether or not it
has Luke's name attached to it yet.
I don't know a version of that gospel is in circulation at the time he's writing.
I also know how similar this is to 1st
Corinthians, I think nine where Paul says it is written.
You should not muzzle an ox and while it threshes and then he's like,
I'm not asking for money, folks.
I wrote on my own, but you know, yeah.
So what so what 1st Timothy is doing here is it's riffing.
It's using Pauline language.
So remember the model, one of the main model texts for 1st Timothy is 1st
Corinthians, so he's going to be imitating that.
But 1st Corinthians does not.
It might cite the Deuteronomy passage about the muzzle,
but it doesn't cite Luke, right?
1st Corinthians is written before.
I mean, 1st Corinthians is written before Mark.
Mark cites 1st Corinthians.
Everybody read 1st Corinthians.
1st Corinthians is one of like the widest spread early Christian tax period.
So the fact it is absolutely earlier in the chronological sequence than
any gospel text, right?
And this is Pseudo Paul or the pastor writing
after the gospel text is not only exists, but it's widely enough circulated and
it's regarded as scripture, right?
So it has been elevated to canonical status.
That cannot be before.
Oh, and I didn't include a slide about it.
But Marcian's the anti-nostic passages in 1st Timothy
appear to be keyed into the Marcian writing project, right?
They use the specific names that Marcian used to describe his own texts,
which is a strong indication that they are post Marcianite.
Right?
The author of 1st Timothy is responding to the controversy caused by Marcian
and trying to address it and using Paul's voice as a way to do that.
It is not the other way around.
People say, oh, Marcian rejected this text because it didn't agree with his
theology.
Well, maybe he would have if it had been authentic.
But he didn't reject other authentic letters that disagreed with this theology.
This is, in fact, something Tertullian kept criticizing him about.
Tertullian was like, why did Marcian keep this stuff?
Because Marcian kept the original epistles to Paul.
And when Paul cited the Old Testament or the Hebrew Bible, what did Marcian kept it?
So Marcian wasn't actually chopping things out, at least not to the extent that
the Orthodox Church maintained.
Yeah, you can certainly criticize Marcian's theology as being weird or whatever.
But his approach to scriptures was not as is commonly maintained, that he just
deleted whatever he didn't like.
So the fact that he, generally speaking, preserved a fairly
authentic early proto Western text type of the epistles, right?
But he doesn't have the pastoral epistles.
That's because they weren't written yet.
They're in response to.
Yeah, they're a response to him, not the other way around. Exactly.
All right, so now I will go to the next slide.
OK, so finally, here's another one that I think is
a very weak use in the same video of the undesigned coincidences.
And that is so in all these situations, the coincidences are where things match.
Well, here we have an undesigned coincident.
It's where they don't match.
That's why I use that.
I'm sorry, it's a little bit, you know,
juvenile of me, I admit.
I use the heads I win, tails you lose things.
So in this case, you have this.
This guy, Alexander, who is a backsliding, right, a backsliding copper smith
mentioned as somebody whose faith is poor and who betrayed Paul and who will
receive his reward of ignominy and and and loss of reputation, etc., etc.
And then he points out.
I'm sorry, I got to advance the slide again.
He points out that.
The closest parallel in acts is Demetrius, the silver smith.
So, you know, if he's imitating acts,
why would he change the name from Demetrius, the silver smith to Alexander,
the copper smith, unless there are two different guys and it's historically accurate.
I'm sorry, you can't.
So so which is it is an undesigned coincidence where things match?
Or an undesigned coincidence where things don't match?
Because there's a lot of reasons why things don't match, whether or not you're
you're making a forgery, right?
There's a lot of a lot of really interesting work happening around the
if like early forgers had documents that were incomplete or had manuscript variants,
like we know that the synoptic tradition had a lot of significant manuscript variants.
We don't know what traditions were attached to the names of these people and these
situations, right?
There could be alternate versions of these same accounts that are actually minus.
There's an act, another version.
I can't remember if it's Byzantium source of acts.
I can't remember exactly the textual source,
but it's like nine or seven to nine percent larger than the the version of acts
we have in our in our canon in our Bibles today.
So, yeah, there's got to be floating textual traditions going on.
And who knows, you know, yeah, I get what you're saying.
So, so I just again, I'm not trying to sound like I don't understand a basic
concept here, but it really doesn't make sense to me.
How is it possible that when when you're comparing two different traditions that
vary in their interpretation of events, how is it an undesigned coincidence when
things match or when things don't match?
And they're both used to argue for authenticity.
I have to just highlight what you just said, right?
This is the exact, as someone mentioned, Stephen Boyce,
Eric Manning, Stephen Boyce, they came on when Tim McGrew and I can't remember the
fourth gentleman, their entire criticism of Dennis McDonald's work was when
McDonald's saw variants or differences, he thinks, and this is McDonald's
interpretation, that they're actually reacting, sometimes even criticizing
the imitation of mimesis and I can't remember the technical term.
But like the very thing that they love jabbing at what's different about
mimesis by McDonald, that it works against themselves.
So what kind of excuse will they come up with at this point to try and find out?
Well, actually, of course, I imagine they're going to go with what you said
initially, these are two different smiths.
So it's all historical, you know what I mean?
That's right. It's like you read it.
It's like, yeah, like Judas hanged himself and he exploded.
Right? At the same time, because sometimes when you hang somebody, they explode.
Yeah, it's that kind of stuff.
It's like, oh, I just want to go beat my head against the desk.
It's so difficult to see how the mental gymnastics work.
But, you know, again, I'm not trying to belittle anyone.
It's sincere.
I follow the line of thinking up to a point and then I just can't follow anymore.
Yeah, I get it.
I have to get off the bus.
But so here's the last one.
This was from a different video.
So it turns out he has several of these videos.
This one was one that I just I found after I looked at the one that just came up.
And this one kind of concludes a very similar chain of arguments.
I think this might have been the one that was addressing Ehrman's book Forged.
And he points out the personal anecdotes in the pastoral epistles as things
that no forger would bother to do.
And I'm sorry, but that's not true.
Forgers have to do the personal articles.
And the only way anyone can make a successful forgery is if they imitate
the genre conventions of a real document and you better believe it that ancient
forgers knew this, you had to make the that you had to know what you were imitating.
And that would include saying things like, let me get my coat when I come back,
right, that I left there or bring my coat to me when you come.
And so there's all these little personal anecdotes and the best ones, though,
and this is the one where they didn't miss, they said, why do these personal
anecdotes there and Mr.
Manning made the case that none of these had any significance for doctrine or dogma
or church rules or the basis for this as as as, you know,
correcting or fixing some problem with the interpretation of the Paul and wanting
to assert a new a new reading of the text.
And that's wrong.
In fact, some of these anecdotes and one I'll mention specifically,
absolutely, was a subtle down low way of saying Paul doesn't support radical Paul.
Like moderate Paul doesn't support radical Paul.
So moderate Paul is also he's more of a misogynist.
Moderate Paul believes in procreation.
He believes that women should be saved through child rearing.
All this is completely rejected by real Paul.
Right.
Paul in 1st Timothy is pro child rearing, pro childbirth,
pro alcohol consumption.
And how does he do that?
How does he say I support drinking alcohol, which is normal Greco Roman thing?
Right.
He's endorsing regular people drinking wine.
He says, you know, I heard about your tummy ache, whatever you should take a little
take a little wine with your.
So it's like this one of these one of these throwaway
anecdotes that it's allegedly an undesigned coincidence.
It's actually doing double duty here.
It's going after the Marcianites and and the other radical
Polanists who are absolutely practicing tea totaling abstinence.
Total, you know, because drunkenness is bad.
So therefore we don't drink anything.
Paul here doesn't agree with you.
He thinks it's OK for you to have a little wine to help your tummy ache.
See, so this is exactly how the two are go hand in hand.
In this case, the forgery is imitating a natural, normal letter and it's dropping
bombs that are going to have implications for the way that the church enforces rules
of behavior in, you know, monastic settings and everything else.
It's church political propaganda.
It's political propaganda masquerading as a personal anecdote.
And this is the kind of thing that First Timothy is particularly heavy handed with.
The author of First Timothy is not an effective forgery compared to the other
Deuterocanonical Deuteropolyne materials, right?
The other Deuteropolyne materials are all much better written
because they managed to integrate genuine
polyne material so artfully with the thing that they're changing.
Like, for example, let's talk about one of the ones that's that's really on the fence.
Second Thessalonians.
It's it's so similar to First Thessalonians in so many ways, right?
All it does is tweak like eschatological issues.
It's like it's got a few.
It was trying to probably replace it.
They wanted to supplant First Thessalonians with Second Thessalonians.
Whoever's making that one is has got a very, very modest narrow agenda, right?
And they're just going after that one thing.
So most of these likely forgeries are so subtle that there's room for debate.
Like real scholars can absolutely differ.
And I'm not saying that real scholars can't differ about the pastoral epistles to Bart
Ehrman has said so many times there are plenty of good scholars who disagree.
And I'm not bashing anyone.
But I'm saying that there's a reason why there's only a small handful of critical
scholars, like a tiny handful of critical scholars that defend First Timothy.
And they are, generally speaking,
come from the traditionalist wing of Christianity themselves, right?
So they are people who have a vested interest in,
you know, defending the authenticity of the canon as and there's something wrong
with that, but it is a religious bias that is inherent to people.
It's not I'm not it's not a moral fault, but failing.
But it's different from critical scholars who are able to suspend their judgment
or at least constrain the biases of I believe the religion is true.
I want the the Bible to be what it says it is, but I'm going to not.
I'm going to still allow my brain to tell me when something is not right.
Like I'm not going to pit my nose and say, yes, it's real Paul, right?
It's like there's some there there's too many, too many things, too many red flags
here for me and this one and so this is the one epistle First Timothy that I'm
willing to really go to the math for, like I'm going to go all the way and say
nobody can convince me that this is real Paul.
It's just he's too unpauline in too many ways.
Very quick on that point.
Yeah, I did a course with Delcey Allison, Jr.
We called it the quest for the historical or
sorry, the historical Jesus quest.
And all he does is go through the history of the scholarship.
It was it was amazing for me who doesn't know the history that well of the
scholarship and how it developed.
But just for those because there's such a quote unquote atheist verse
apologist online stuff.
And of course, we feed into it for views and get people attentive.
And even the title here, right?
We want to grab people's attention and get them into this back and forth dilemma.
But I just want to highlight for those who may not know all of the critical
scholarship you are hearing today, everything that you're talking about, Joe,
everything that we do on myth vision,
maybe not every single thing that's ever postulated, but mythologies, finding
legends, forgeries, issues, textual traditions, contradictions, everything you see me do
initiated thanks to the Protestant Reformation Christians within their own
tradition after scalpelding, using the scalpel, cutting all the fake miracles of
the Catholic Church when they were they were going back and forth protesting
against the Catholic Church, eventually turn the scalpel to their own textual
tradition, wanting to authenticate, wanting to verify using kind of a science
on the text and over the centuries, thanks to Christian men mostly, I'd say almost
all Christians were the ones who did this project.
And so it's not an atheist bias to do everything you see us doing today.
This is a Christian project, technically, on Christian literature.
And yeah, and it was it was among the most influential liberal
theologians in the early in the early modern period that led to the most liberal
Protestant theology in the early modern period is where skepticism about the
pastoral epistles originates.
And so again, because they're the most flagrant, they were the ones recognized
first, 1807, I think.
So like 200 and, you know, 17 years ago or something like that was about when
they first said First Timothy is not Paul,
that when the first academic publications, again, written by Bible believing Christians,
these were these were Protestants who believed in solo scriptura and all that.
This was like this.
These were not heretics.
They were but they but just as Martin Luther, because I mean, I don't I'm not a
huge fan of Martin Luther as a historical individual.
He had lots of issues, but he was he was a text critic.
He wanted to reject the later.
You know, why did the Christian apocrypha?
Why did the apocryphal Jewish Greek texts get kicked out of the Protestant Bible?
Because the Protestant Reformation at its very foundation was about judging
authenticity of texts and finding the texts that weren't deemed authentic and
rejecting them, no matter what the Catholics had previously done.
You see what I'm saying?
Right. I do.
That's why in the early 19th century, it wasn't considered wrong to want to get rid
of or to declare when something was a fake book in the Bible.
That wasn't considered blasphemous or an attack on the Bible itself.
This was the product.
This is part of the part and parcel of what the Reformation was about.
It was about critically examining texts and determining which ones we can trust.
And yes, indeed, they recognized because of a whole bunch of issues.
They recognized that 1st Timothy was the one that had the red flags where Paul is
arguing against Paul, right?
In fact, the entire thing is basically Paul undermining Paul.
So if you're really, if your entire career is based on understanding Paul and then
you read something where it sounds like Paul doesn't like Paul, right?
Then it's like the fact that he imitates the language of Paul to do it doesn't
change the fact, right?
The vocabulary similarity is not enough.
The fact that he copies word for word
text out of 1 Corinthians is not enough if he turns 1 Corinthians on its head
at every opportunity, which is kind of what's happened.
OK, so.
Sorry for the tangent.
Oh, no, the tangent was great.
So let me just talk a little bit about like again, we're going to get into the.
I told you we would do a little bit for the next few minutes about the
con the context, the historical context of Christianity in the second century.
I'm going to use the restroom real quick.
Oh, yeah, covering this.
Do you want me to keep going?
Just absolutely pretend I'm here.
The counterforged Derek is going to be here.
You ready for this? Here we are.
All right.
So to the audience that's still here,
this is the famous work of Calces, which survives only in
excerpts quoted by Orygen of Alexandria.
Calces wrote the first comprehensive pagan critique of Christianity.
And what's ironic is that both he and Orygen were Greco-Roman
socially conservative traditionalists.
They actually, in terms of their social
politics, they agreed more than they disagree.
What they disagreed about was the moral virtue of Christianity.
And so one of the things that Calces was most
mocking about Christianity was the fact that it was a religion of the socially
marginalized, the people who were beneath contempt in Greco-Roman society.
So the fact that Christianity was a religion that appealed to women,
children and slaves, right?
These three categories of people were all deemed less than full human rights.
They were given less than full human rights under Greco-Roman law.
They were all considered to be, to some degree, subhuman, right?
Not only a free man of means was able to fully exercise his human agency.
So any religion that was catering to women, slaves and children was inherently
worthy of mockery, according to Calces.
And so this touched a nerve because the reality is is that Christianity
was a religion of women, children and slaves.
I mean, Jesus saying, but the little children come to me in both, you know,
the canonical and
and non-canonical gospels and the fact that Paul says
I there is neither Jew nor Greek nor slave nor free male nor female for you are
all one in Christ.
This is the idea that is
kind of central to Pauline Christianity.
That passage in Galatians is one of the animating, like, driving forces behind the movement.
It is an incredibly important idea.
The social leveling of Christianity, like the way that it transforms the social
hierarchies of Greco-Roman society, is what makes it subversive from the perspective
of socially conservative pagans like Calces.
And so it's as in the third century, a social conservative wing is rising
in proto-Orthodox Christianity that they're saying, oh, no, that's not us.
They're sort of like they're trying.
And by the way, they do say, yes, of course, we have holy women, very holy women.
They're made holy despite the fact that there are inferiors, right?
Our religion is powerful enough to make even inferior women holy.
See, this is kind of like it's in other words, the the the church is
reorienting itself towards the expectations of the Greco-Roman elites,
like they want to they're embarrassed by some of these qualities of their social
history and the characteristics of the movement up until the second century.
And so this is one of the
one of the things that causes the pastoral forgeries to gain prominence over time.
But you can see this is definitely still the case as late as the early fourth
century, where the Diocletianic seizure of property in Algeria in 303.
So there's a large church wardrobe that's confiscated in the period of sporadic
persecution that happened there in North Africa, had a five to one ratio of women's
garments to men's garments, the earliest Christian liturgical iconography
consistently shows women often without veils, often preaching next to altars.
You find great early Christian women's
graves containing Eucharistic, Eucharistic
paraphernalia, you know, the the the material culture of the sacraments are
associated with women's bodies in the most prominent graves in the oldest church
cemeteries we've excavated.
And this keeps happening.
And it's again, it's not just the heretics.
It's not just the Marcianites.
It is early proto-Orthodox and early
proto-Catholic communities that had high ranking women clergy across the board.
And this is so this is and the more we excavate, the more we recognize this.
And this again put early Christianity for the first several years made it really
counter cultural and weird because Greek law said that women were effectively
chattel slaves, right?
They were legally children.
And there's nothing similar to attributed to Moses in the Torah, right?
This is not.
I mean, yes, I'm not saying that the Jews were enlightened on gender,
but ancient Judaism was not like
Greco-Romans were in terms of their treatment of women and slaves.
So let's just talk about how these attitudes are reflected briefly in some
ancient Greek and Roman laws going all the way back to Aristotle is where you have
the legal prohibition on women's speech in public, right?
So Aristotle's politics forbids women's public
speech, Livy quotes Cato the elder.
So this is the context of the quote is the reign of Augustus.
So when Jesus is a little kid,
but the context of the quote is Cato taught around the second century BC,
the repeal of the opium law, which a plot which happened after like the Hannibal
crisis was originally prohibiting ostentatious displays by men and women.
But it was amended in the early second century
BCE to make it so only women were forced to remain quiet in public assemblies, right?
Philo of Alexandria, who is the one Jewish author on my list here.
He writes an allegory about the oral Torah,
which makes it conform to Greco-Roman law.
He's trying to say Jews can be good Greco-Roman gender traditionalists too.
Juvenile, again, condemns women from publicly intruding and speaking during
male governance in assemblies.
So when Pauline Christianity silences and subordinates women,
it's an imitation of the Greco-Roman gender rules.
And we've talked about this in the other video.
The authentic Pauline epistles has has the famous passage in Corinthians,
which is problematic about this too, which I believe is a quotation,
refutation formula. That's another issue.
I don't have time to get into all that today,
but suffice it to say that that the pastoral epistles are channeling Aristotle.
Right? What is that?
What is what particularly, I should say, First Timothy?
First Timothy is like an Aristotelian virtue ethics manual.
It's doing things proper from that this Greco-Roman perspective
and flaunting the earlier authentic Pauline
social leveling. So
this, do you, Derek, are you familiar with the work about Paul and the Stoics?
I am.
I've read a few scholars that have written on this that Paul was probably
engaging with Stoic thought as well as middle Platonism to some degree.
So, yeah, so Plato was less of a misogynist than his student Aristotle was.
The Stoics believed that you could attain
freedom through slavery, right?
So there was some Stoic thought there is this sort of conflation of the
the slave and the free are one, right?
That's that the notion that the first shall be last and the last shall be first.
And one is on top and shall be on the bottom and the one that's on the bottom
shall be on the top, that kind of stuff.
Epicurians were also among the earliest anti-slavery
philosophical movements, right? Epicurians sometimes forbade their
practitioners from holding slaves.
They said you had to emancipate your slaves, right, and give them what they needed
to live an independent life, right?
So this is like the earliest roots of intellectual opposition to the slave to slavery.
And Paul is portrayed as convincing
Epicurians and Stoics in the Agora in Act 17, right?
Right. He is.
So these are the strands of pagan philosophy that Christianity is aligning
itself with in the proto-Orthodox movement in the early second century.
It just seems their problem at the end was the bodily resurrection idea.
Right. Resurrection.
So that seemed to be the hiccup.
But in terms of the way that these socially
marginalized group marginalized groups are propped up and presented as
arrogance rather than being scorned and cast aside the way normal
Greco-Roman views like following Aristotle would.
That's that's a really interesting thing.
Something that I'm talking to my friend, our friend,
Chrissy Hansen, who's doing some amazing work on Philemon lately.
And and she's supporting that Philemon.
She thinks Philemon is a forgery, too.
I'm not sure I go as far as she does there.
But through our dialogues, I've come to realize that Philemon
is likely a pseudonym for an anonymous slave owner and that the author of Philemon,
Paul, I think, you know, Chrissy thinks it's a forgery.
But the author of Philemon shows the name
Philemon because Philemon is a famous comic from the film on the comic is
an anti-Aristotelian, anti-slavery comedian.
So the fact that the slave owner is named Philemon in a discourse about
recognizing the slave is your brother, right, is how ironic that the that slavery
is a significant point in a letter by a guy named Philemon. Right.
Right. Exactly. Exactly.
So whoever, you know, because Paul picks Paul picks nicknames for people.
He doesn't just he doesn't just name them what they are, especially if you're like
in a kind of a subversive secret sect that's, you know, you're going to send
your letters with, you know, you might have code names or something for your
recipients.
So this is all just to say that there is a strongly anti-Aristotelian ethos,
in my opinion, in the early kernel of the Pauline corpus.
But these later Pauline, pseudo Pauline epistles,
like 1st Timothy, most brazenly, is Aristotelian virtue ethics manifested.
It's like it's like basically the opposite.
It's it could not be more different in terms of its ethos.
And so just just to remind you what I keep trying to click on the other panel
to make the screen switch and I'm I'm inept.
I'm a Luddite.
I'm sorry. OK, here we go.
So just to remind you what this passage, this notorious passage,
which is the Christianization of Aristotelian and Greco-Roman gender normativity,
is where it says women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel with
modesty and self control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls,
but with what is proper for women who profess godliness with good works.
There's another one of those red flags,
like where does Paul say, you know, with good works, works of the law, right?
What is good work in the other passage in Corinthians?
This is imitating.
It mentions the law.
Let a woman woman learn in silence with full submission.
I permit woman, no woman to teach or to have authority over a man.
She is to keep silent.
Again, this is explicitly drawn from Greco-Roman law of that period.
Right. It was it was wrong for women to learn from men.
It was wrong for women to speak in public in the assemblies, etc.
For Adam was formed first and then Eve.
Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
Transgressor, yet she will be saved through childbearing with modesty.
So here we have numerous un-Pauline ideas.
We have the vaunting of good works, like good deeds, as opposed to works in the law,
which were like following Torah observance in real Paul, right?
So there's a disconnect between the language is the same,
but the meaning is totally different.
There is the complete the mechanistic imitation of Greco-Roman law about women's
place, women's roles.
There's also the reversal of Adam as the transgressor.
If you read Romans, the quintessential transgressor for Paul is Adam.
Right. Paul blames the dude.
This is where Paul says, did I say Adam was the bad guy?
It's actually Eve.
She was the problem.
Right. And then real Paul in first Corinthians seven is absolutely
tells you, do not have kids.
Nobody. Yeah, he's like.
And here he is about to happen.
Yeah, here he's like the only way for a woman to be saved.
So you go from it's absolutely horrible to have children, too.
The only way for a woman to be saved is if she has kids.
Right. This is complete inversion.
And these are just a small handful.
So I also talked about alcohol use.
Also, the very important issues of blasphemy and personal conscience.
For Paul, blasphemy is never a concern if you have the spirit.
Right.
A good spirit means blasphemy is impossible.
Yet first Timothy is extremely paranoid about blasphemy and how do we stop it?
Right.
Personal conscience is your guide for real Paul.
He is he is leading a charismatic movement where people who have the spirit have
absolutely nothing to worry about.
They will not blaspheme.
They allow their the spirit to help guide their personal conscience.
And they are in great shape.
Right. That is perfect.
Whereas again, this guy is worried about people being led astray by their personal
conscience. Right.
So there's this like it's like numerous technical terms from first Corinthians
get tweaked to mean pretty much exactly the opposite of what they mean in their
original context. This is an author who is using Paul's voice to fix Paul so that
Paul is now doing the exact opposite of what Paul is supposed to be doing.
Anyway, and so this is, you know, this is goes beyond the stylometric problems.
All the stylometric problems are real.
They are not insignificant, but it's it's like this stuff on top of everything else.
Right.
There are internal evidence, external evidence, content, dogma, like, like there
are there is no category of analysis under which I think First Timothy doesn't
pretty much resoundly fail the authenticity tax test.
Right. More so than any other epistle, in my opinion.
Some people think put Ephesians in that category, too, because it's got it's
own problems, but this is the one that I am pretty convinced about.
OK, so let me go another slide forward.
How are we doing for time?
You got I got 15 or 20 more minutes.
I'm your I'm yours here.
We do have super chats, but it's like we got six, six super chats to recognize.
All right. So we yeah.
So if you give me another 10 minutes, we can get through some super chats before I
believe. OK.
All right.
Yeah, so just the external evidence, it doesn't appear in Codex Vaticanus.
It doesn't.
None of the pastoral's appear in Papyrus 46.
Well, it's true that there are some missing pages at the end of
Papyrus 46, there are not enough of them to contain all the missing epistles.
So there's like Philemon and a few others are missing, too.
But in other words, there are there are definitely some something missing from
Papyrus 46.
We cannot confirm that the pastoral epistles occur.
Either of those sources do not occur in Marcian's canon list.
As I said, it's unevenly defended by the proto-Orthodox.
So we know several heretics rejected the epistles, but some proto-Orthodox
like Tashin the Assyrian did.
I also mentioned already that Tertullian was shocked by the fact that Marcian
included Old Testament passages that were
contrary to his his weird theology, and he thought this was really, really strange.
So again, the argument that the pastoral epistles were rejected by the Marcianites
on the basis of theological differences, it doesn't hang because the Marcianites
would have had the same cause to reject other texts that also didn't agree with
their theology. The fact is they accepted the texts because they thought they were
written by Paul, and that's the basis for their inclusion, right?
And so just I think this is my
the last important slide for me to talk about.
And then we should go ahead and do some some super chats.
I'll do one more after this is just to say that this is an important time
in the late Roman Empire, the mid to late second century, which is when these
epistles are first openly cited as the work of Paul.
Yes, earlier authors like Pauli Karp and the acts of Paul appear to allude to them
to occur to mention their themes and issues.
But like in the case of Pauli Karp, who is he's writing at the same time
that I believe the epistles are being written and he's writing in the same context.
So why is Pauli Karp so similar to 1st Timothy?
Because they might even be in the same community, right?
These are so close together in terms of historical context that you can't use
Pauli Karp to defend 1st Timothy if Pauli Karp is 1st Timothy, right?
It's like some people say Pauli Karp might even be the author of 1st Timothy.
The language is so similar, right?
And the and the genre and the purpose is so similar.
1st Pauli Karp's letter to the Philippines or whatever it is.
It's like they're they quote the same text.
They have they have.
So there is a clear literary relationship
between what's going on in Pauli Karp's time and what's going on at the time
that the pastoral forgeries are being composed.
So yeah, and this is also a period
when montanism, which is a female led proto orthodox charismatic movement,
right, in Asia Minor, and it's and so there's there's rapidly expanding women
led movements that are being opposed, right, by other factions in the proto orthodox
church at a time when when the demographic expansion of Christianity is happening.
The Western text type manuscript tradition is being composed at this time,
and it includes numerous redactions in favor of the pastoral epistles and other
pseudo Pauline material where the the text is harmonized.
So like people must have recognized there was some grammatical incongruities.
The scribes in the Western text type tended to make the canonical Pauline
material more closely resemble the disputed material, if that makes sense
through subtle changes in language.
And then finally, I'll just point out one thing.
So I was going to show some manuscript variants, but I don't think I have time.
I don't quite have time to go through those in detail, so we'll skip that slide.
We'll say that this Pope Galatius, the first, he is attributed one of his things
to the fact that he was complaining in the year around the year four ninety six
that women were still doing sacramental stuff in the church in the late fifth
early sixth century, right, so that a court attributed to this pope is a complaint
about the fact that women were still being ordained, not within as leaders,
not within the Herod of the Heretical churches, but within mainstream
normal Christianity of that period.
So there's different gains based on different
literatures seems still right that would suggest that the the notion that everyone
read First Timothy as as Paul is undermined by that.
And even by the way, even this Pope Galatius text that I show you is widely
considered to be a canonical, not a canonical forgery, but a forgery.
It's likely it was written by someone pretending to be the guy about 50 years later.
So yeah, so it's a mid it's like a mid sixth century forgery written in Gaul.
So wow.
So that's it.
So let's do some chats because I do have to leave in about 10 minutes.
So awesome. Yeah, this has been a blast.
I'm sure by the way, Eric showed up in the chat while we were streaming.
Hi, Eric, thank you for your good faith and your spirit in letting me do this.
I know I didn't ask permission first, but I know you're a good guy and you'll
and you'll respect that.
He may want to have a conversation with you.
He said, if you're down.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We'll plan it. We'll figure out something.
Stop scamming man.
Thank you so much for all the support through all the super chats and questions.
First Corinthians 15 says Jesus appeared to Keith as Peter, then the 12, then 500
people, then to James.
Were the historical James and Peter not of the 12?
A little off topic, but yeah, I don't.
The Peter question is more confusing because you would think that that Peter was.
I'm not sure that the but again, the Gospels are written later than
right, the Gospels are later than first Corinthians.
So whether Peter was or not is hard to say.
Paul wasn't in the Petrine faction.
So yeah, I mean, it's kind of it's a difficult.
It's a difficult question.
The the the identity of the 12.
I agree.
There's a there's a number of problems.
And some of those, the identity of the 12 was an issue for early editors, because
sometimes they changed the Pauline manuscripts to reflect like like the Western edition.
They corrected 12 to 11 at one point.
Why? Because Judas is exactly what I was literally just going to say in the
Gospel of Matthew verse twenty eight or chapter twenty eight.
Sorry, verse for those who are interested, 16, the Great Commission narrative.
Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountaintop where Jesus had told
them to go when they saw him.
Notice there's like a witness tradition.
Eleven, not twelve.
Right. And so the I remember I told you the Western
manuscript tradition of the epistles was heavily edited to make it harmonize across
the texts. That was one of the editorial changes that they did.
You read the Western text type recension of this passage.
It says eleven, not twelve. Got it.
Thank you. They had to fix the continuity error.
They were retconning it.
David Aaron Hill with the Super Sticker.
Thank you so much for the support.
I really appreciate it.
Stop Scamming Man is back again.
Another interesting insight it gives on the times.
Social views is it saying widows over 60 should be entitled to parish benefits.
People died sooner, but their views of old were not so different.
Or yeah, I'm I think it's a great.
I think I'm not I'm not sure I understand the question.
Is there a question there?
I don't know if that's like a that's what I was asking.
I wonder if it's a question.
OK.
But thank you. Stop Scamming Man again for your.
I've seen you here before.
You've seen you've been on Superchats with me before.
I appreciate your supporting Derek and his absolutely fine.
Enterprise.
I hope we're not skipping right over this.
That I thought was a question.
Thank you for that.
Again, stop Scamming Man.
Are there any interesting details when it comes to textual variants on Second Timothy?
That's a good question.
I don't I don't know of any big deal ones.
I think the textual variants in the authentic
epistles are more numerous because there are more copies floating around.
They have longer traditions, right?
They're the and so the there were already
variant manuscripts in circulation.
I think that some of the forgeries may have depended on some manuscript
corruptions that happened before the forgeries were made.
I so yeah, I honestly don't know.
I do know that some times that again, when they were doing the revisions
across the epistles, that they would take a language from the pastoral epistles
and that would influence the way
transcriptions were made in the authentic epistles.
Like they would there would be dramatic, subtle,
grammatical harmonizations, if that makes sense.
So they would make it sound like all the same voice.
Thank you so much, stop Scamming Man.
Doc Pluromenot, where do you fall on the Timothy equals Titus equation?
Compare Paul Saul, Stylist, Sylvainius, Jesus, justice, etc.
Timothy means on God.
My friend and colleague, Richard Fellows,
is somebody who works on similar issues to me in this area.
He's done he's doing work on Philemon.
He's like like Chrissie is he's doing
not not exactly the same perspective she has, but he's doing relevant stuff on these
kind of questions, the relationship between the authentic and the forgery,
the authentic and forage epistles.
And he is definitely he's an expert on names on names in Greek and Roman
society at that period.
And he knows he definitely believes that Timothy and Titus are the same person,
but the pastoral forager didn't know that.
So that I think I'm pretty sure Richard Fellows would agree with me.
I'm not I'm not sure if he's a fan of your show, but I'll ask him in an email later.
He would say that Timothy and Titus were titles for the same guy,
the same historical person, but the pastoral foragers who did the one who did
Timothy and the one who did Titus didn't
first, second Timothy and Titus or whatever were unaware of the fact that that was
actually the same person.
And then I think it maybe is in first Timothy at one point they get in those in
the pastoral epistles, they get separated and become different individuals like
they're mentioned as independent individuals.
But in the authentic epistles, the case that they're actually the same guy is
pretty strong that Titus is like a title for Timothy.
I just want to make one observation of this, not knowing any of the evidence here.
And we got one more super chat after this.
All right.
It's simply this the confidence people have, the certitude that they run with on
these texts and having so much confidence in the canonical and the biblical.
And like, you know, I had that confidence when I was a Christian.
This was the word of God and you could not persuade me otherwise.
In fact, rather than trying to engage and act like I had the one up on you,
I would go to like Christian apologists, listen to them or ignore and just label
you guys as liberal, you know, I would just put you in this category and it would
block out, I did not even give you guys the chance to investigate.
That's why I never really knew this side of the arguments and stuff because I was
very conservative Christianity and this is the truth and really wasn't engaging with
that.
So I just want to say all of this discussion makes me realize, of course,
more and more as I've been doing myth vision now four years, how much
non-confidence you should have on the facts of how reliable these texts are
really going back to something that is the truth, capital T.
Christians have lived forever, you know, with more of a church tradition angle
and not so much textually based as if this is the word of God.
And we have to have this almost Bible worship perception in a way.
I'm not saying that's what they're all doing.
But like if the text is forged, if the Christianity will still be alive,
these people thrived on the lessons and the stories as having meaning and not
necessarily the technical actual reality of, you know, so that's like post
enlightenment, it seems like we have to have this actually be the case.
Yeah. And as somebody who does ancient history and archaeology,
I live with uncertainty.
I have to maintain an agnostic position.
Like I say, I'm putting all the chips on one Tim being fake,
but it's not like I'm my eternal.
I don't worry that my eternal soul depends on my answer being correct.
So and for most of these questions, I'm like, eh, whatever.
I'm like, it's it's cool.
It's it's an entertaining question, but it doesn't.
My life won't change whether or not this or that fact falls on this or that side.
So it's more a big picture argument that I'm committing to here rather than one
that's based on just the narrow authenticity question of one text.
Got it.
Yep. I imagine.
Thank you. Stop scamming man.
Oh, yeah, stop scamming man is your he's your sugar daddy.
He's got he's got it going on.
I imagine the biggest barrier for many
aspiring researchers is learning languages.
Any advice from from experience?
Maybe MythVision could be a good platform for relaying good advice.
It hosts scholars with great linguistic skills.
Yes, and I am not one of them.
So I'm going to be absolutely frank here and say that I studied, you know,
I studied a few years of Latin as an undergrad and I studied.
And so I have, you know, and it's super rusty.
And then in grad school, I studied Central Asian languages.
And I studied, you know, so I'm interested in like big East West picture,
cultural exchanges and stuff like that.
I'm coming back into this New
Testament work, which I did again as an undergraduate many years later.
And I would never claim to be an expert at the Greek or Latin.
So if you want to make a career in this, this is a side issue in my career,
which is mostly in archaeology, right?
If you want to make a career in this,
you absolutely should invest in good language education.
Unfortunately, in the United States, you look like you're in England because
you're paying in pound sterling stop scamming man.
But in the United States, unfortunately,
they're just slashing the budgets for ancient language programs.
So I'm in a department right now, right?
Where we're fighting as a as a faculty to keep the support for teaching Greek
and Latin and Hittite and all the other languages of classical antiquity.
So, yeah, if you want to come and, you know,
go to grad school in in Massachusetts,
I can point you to some of my colleagues who can teach you a lot better
than me in this in the on the issue of ancient languages.
So thank you.
Yeah, thank you, Dr.
Joseph, AP Wilson, everybody.
Remember the name, he'll be back.
You already know it's it's always a blast having you on.
You can support us joining the Patreon, become a YouTube member.
You'll get notified, of course, and have a symbol next to your name in the live
chat when we do live streams.
I am going to be doing private Patreon and YouTube membership zooms.
And that's coming soon, like very, very soon now that I got back from vacation.
And of course, we also have courses with academics,
scholarly courses that you can take and learn what they are specialized in and
what they're teaching you on Paul and New Testament stuff.
Dead Sea Scrolls.
The list goes on and on.
Davis is in there.
He's in the chat. James Tabort.
We got a whole bunch of people that we have courses with him.
We have more coming.
So stay tuned.
Any final words from you, Joe?
Thank you for having me.
Thank you for doing it this last minute.
Thanks to Eric for his being a good sport.
It is I'm glad we live in a world where people can be collegial and people can
take a little criticism and not take it personally.
It's hard coming from the social media side of things where you just deal with
trolls that are always on fire.
And I much prefer the collegiality that you have created with this channel.
Derek, it is so cool that you have people with different ideas and different
perspectives that can get along and talk about all kinds of cool stuff.
And so it's a privilege to be on your channel.
And thank you again for allowing this last minute little thing.
Thank you, Joe.
And thank you, everybody who liked, share this, comment and never forget.
We are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh
Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Ooh, Oh, Oh, Oh oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Ooh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh, Oh
You
