Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, I'm going to play the part of an apologist for a second so that our audience
can understand where I'm coming from and if you're an apologist watching this, you'll
know exactly where I'm coming from because this is what you do.
I hope I'm still manning them.
Often I hear that the Bible came first.
The Bible came first.
Its stories are true.
Usually if it came first, it's truer.
So what you hear is people not arguing, well the Bible came first, they get more complex
and skeptics and critical scholars and you name it, Old Testament scholars say you know
yeah, Genesis 1-11 is obviously using a Mesopotamian background.
But the apologist will say something like this, well no, there's no literary evidence
that it borrows from this book or that book in the Mesopotamian literature.
We can't show the evidence that it actually is using that as its background.
So they're not arguing straightforward like a fundamentalist will, the Bible came first
and we know it, which is one argument.
They try to be more sophisticated and say, well it was in the air, in the ancient Near
East, this is just something they grabbed in the air.
So how do you know Noah's story is not true?
It's their way of sneaking in that the story is still true and that it's historically
true as their point, that this actually happened.
So they'll somehow downplay the Mesopotamian background that it looks very much alike.
But does it look very much alike?
Because obviously it didn't borrow literally from this other source.
So Dr. Josh, I'm asking you, did Genesis 1-11 borrow, if that's a kind word I can use?
Some people want to say, what do you call that, plagiarize.
But that wasn't even a thing in that ancient world like that or were they just demythologizing
something from the air.
Anyway, I'll shut up, just take us into this, please.
I'm interested in hearing how does the Mesopotamian background play a role for the Bible?
Huge question.
Yeah, so lots of different ways.
So okay, there's no question as far as scholars are concerned, biblical scholars, or seriologists.
There's no question that the biblical text is much later and it's borrowing from its
utilizing either more directly or more subtly texts from Mesopotamia.
There's actually a book.
If I can spot it quickly.
I'm going to show you a bookshelf.
He's got all sorts of books.
If I can't spot it in the next five seconds, I'll just let it go, but it's code.
Yeah, I can't find it quickly, but nonetheless, it's taught by, edited by Zionist David, and
it's talking about like illusion, there it is.
Okay.
Subtle citation, illusion, and translation in the Hebrew Bible.
It's an edited volume, but it's a fantastic little book.
It's not a huge read, but it talks about things like, what are we talking about?
How should we be thinking when we talk about intertextuality?
So intertextuality is the way that two different textual traditions interact with one another.
So the example that I always go to is something like Eminem in his song, I Love You, because
you remind me of me.
I can't remember the actual title of the song is, but he uses Joan Jets, I Love Rock and
Roll, and you can hear it.
It's not subtle, right?
He's utilizing the tune, but aspects of it, he works it into his song, but what he's doing
is he's utilizing it in such a way that he's creating something new.
Right.
Okay.
This sort of thing obviously happens all over the place in modern music and modern art,
but it also happened quite frequently in the ancient world.
And I have an example that I could talk about at length, and I don't know if you wanted
to do it in this video or do it in another video, but talking about how we can see intertextuality
just in Acadian literary texts between the story of Anzu, the Anzu bird, and Anuma Ailish
with the story of Marduk, but I can talk about that maybe in a separate video, or I can talk
about it here.
You can talk about it wherever you want.
So maybe that's a good way to sort of lead into this because I think it will explain
what the Hebrew Bible is doing.
So there's an Acadian myth comes from the second millennium, and it's called the Anzu
myth.
And in the Anzu myth, you have the main god Enlil, one of the main gods Enlil, and he
has this thing called the Tablet of Destinies, such a cool name.
And the Tablet of Destinies is essentially this tablet that whoever possesses it, the
power sort of transfers to whoever has it.
They can control the forces of nature, essentially they control reality, right?
It's like the reality stone, I guess.
And I was going to say, where's Jack Black right now, because that's a name he would
put in something he does, yeah.
So in this story, this main god Enlil has the Tablet of Destinies, and there is a mythological
bird creature called the Anzu bird.
And the Anzu bird is good in the mythological tradition, he's not like a bad character.
But in this story, he is set to guard the cellar, like the room, whatever, of Enlil.
So he's the guard.
And Enlil in the story goes and he takes a bath, and so he has to take off all his royal
garb and put down the Tablet of Destinies on his throne.
And when he does, Anzu gets this bright idea, runs in, grabs Tablet of Destinies and flies
off into the mountains.
There's everything in the chaos.
So the gods go through this whole process, how are we going to get this Tablet of Destinies
back from Anzu?
Because not only is he a ferocious creature by himself, but now he has a Tablet of Destinies.
Bad news.
So they ask one god to go out, and that god says, oh my gosh, who can fight against him?
I can't go out.
He's too scared.
They ask him, and he's a major deity.
And this is still the Assyrian myth?
Yes.
Okay.
The Akkadian, I apologize.
The Akkadian myth.
Yeah.
Is Assyrian Akkadian the same?
They're in the same vein.
Yeah.
Okay.
It just depends on how you're using the word.
But one, three different gods are going to go out, and they get scared.
They go back, who can do this?
So finally they go to the god Nanorta, and Nanorta is like the young warrior god, right?
And they convince him to go out and fight Anzu.
So when he goes out, there's a fierce battle.
I mean, and it's they're really mixing it up.
And one of Nanorta's weapons is the Bone Era, fighting, they're fighting, they're fighting,
and he draws back the bow and shoots, and when the arrow comes toward Anzu, he holds
up the tablet of destinies and says, arrow, go back to your thicket.
And like, you know, the sinew, go back to wherever, in other words, the elements that
make up the bow and the arrow, go back to where you got them from their source.
So the sinew to the animal and the arrow to the thicket and feathers to whatever.
And so it repels the arrow because he controls reality.
So Nanorta is flustered.
What am I going to do?
He's been defeated.
Right.
So he has this mace, this weapon, and it talks.
The mace is called Shahor.
And he says, Shahor, go back to Aya, who is the Enki Aya, the wise deity, the trickster
deity, sort of very clever.
And Shahor tells him what happened and Aya thinks and says, I have a plan.
So he tells the plan to the mace.
The mace travels back and tells Nanorta what to do.
So here's the plan.
They start to fight.
And when the Anzu bird gets tired and he lowers his wings, Nanorta cuts his pinions off and
those long feathers.
And Anzu is supposed to see these feathers sort of floating around, take the tablet of
destinies and call them back to him.
When he does, Nanorta shoots an arrow.
And because the fletching that's on the arrow is made of feathers, it would, when he calls
the feathers to himself, it also calls the arrow to him.
So it kills him.
That's clever.
So it's not by brute strength, by force, by power, whatever, that he wins.
It's through being clever or trickery.
And one question I was going to ask you about that, as we get into the intertextual stuff,
and I just want to say, it sounds to me that the idea of cleverness and even deceit isn't
a bad thing necessarily, it's actually a brilliant thing in the ancient world.
It turns into something later in Christian mythology, of course, about Satan and the
devil and the him being the snake, which is not its original context.
But we'll deal with that maybe in a different video, but just getting into the Mesopotamian
stuff and the Bible.
But I just thought, if you were able to deceive people and you were very slick, you were wise,
you were smart.
That's who Enki was, right?
So Enki just as a brief aside, the flood story, if you think about Atrahasis, Enlil is the
wicked deities called evil, doing an evil thing by sending the flood.
And the way that Enki saves humanity, if you remember the story, all the gods are sworn.
So just very quickly, Enlil devises different plans to decimate humanity.
One is like a famine, one is a plague.
And each time Enki goes to or Enlil goes to the humans and says, like, here's how to
like, here's how to beat this, you know, the plague God or the famine God, like, go make
a big offering to him and, you know, and that'll, that'll like, you know, make him not bring
about this terrible thing and trick Enlil essentially, like get underhand, undermine
Enlil's plan.
And so Enlil makes all the gods swear that they won't go and inform, you know, Utena
pitched him the, you know, the, or Atrahasis, the, the flood hero of what's going to happen
or anybody.
And so Enki knows or Aya knows that he can't go tell Atrahasis the plan of Enlil to flood
the world.
So what does he do?
Well, Atrahasis is standing by this read fence.
So Aya goes down and says, read fence, read fence, hear my words, listen to me, build
a boat, a flood's a coming, read fence.
And so say what, right?
So he gets around, he keeps his word, but in a clever way is able to trick, you know,
it'd be, be, you know, it's deceitful.
Right.
And of course that preserves life, which is a whole trope and pisses in the loft, right?
But it's because so Enki, but Enki's the hero, like one of the heroes preserves life.
So anyway, but that's the story of the Anzu bird.
So at the end, Ninorta, that, that his mace tells him to let Anzu's feathers blow into
the wind back to the gods, to announce your victory, right?
That's important for later.
He uses a battle net at one point.
It's also an important thing to remember.
But he, the story's a little confused, is broken.
This is clay tablet.
So we don't know all the details of it, but it seems like for at least for a while, Ninorta
says, I'm not going to return the tablet of destinies, I'm going to keep it for myself.
So now another one.
So it looks like he does eventually return it in the story, but at least initially he
says he's not going to.
Okay.
So that's the Anzu myth.
Now the later text, the Enuma Ailish, if you've heard of that story, but you can recap anything
you want.
I think it's the Enuma Ailish is like the Marduk.
It's always called the creation story, the cating creation story or Mesopotamian creation
story.
Really what it is.
It's the ascendancy of Marduk over the other deities, over the other gods, his supremacy.
But it's a very clear reworking of the Anzu myth, the earlier Anzu myth.
So in the story, you have Tiamat, who is the, like the, the C deity, and there's a whole
thing that happens where ultimately Tiamat gets really pissed and she's going to destroy
the gods and she sets up her consort, um, Kingu and Kingu gets the tablet of destinies.
Well, the same thing happens.
You've got Kingu and these monsters and, and Tiamat and the gods are fretting.
What are we going to do?
So they have a deity come out, big deity.
Oh my gosh.
Can't do anything.
Can't run away.
Can't do another deity.
Oh no.
Can't do it.
Three deities come out.
Then Marduk volunteers, I'll go do it, but only if you make me the supreme deity.
So you can see the parallels, right?
You can see how it's reworking it, but the connections between the two, but it's the
differences that are important.
So when Marduk goes out, if you remember with Ninorta, there's a fierce battle and he loses.
Then he has to use trickery and another fierce battle and it's only through the trick that
he wins.
So it's not his power.
It's his trickiness.
Yeah.
Marduk in his approach is so powerful, so fierce that the text says even his approach, Kingu
just falls out.
The one that holds the tablet of destinies is beaten just by Marduk's approach.
Right?
Yeah.
So you can see the development.
He's so powerful.
The reader knows the story of the Anzumith and goes, Whoa, what?
There's no fight even required.
It's just his approach.
Now when we come to Genesis, you'll see how that's significant, but then he fights Tiamat.
At one point he uses a net for a water deity, which is a little weird, but Ninorta uses
the net.
At one point it talks about when he kills Tiamat, cuts her veins open and it says, let
her blood go into the wind and blow back to the other deities to announce your victory.
Well, blood doesn't really blow in the wind very well, but if you remember from the Anzumith,
that his feathers go up and blow back to the other gods.
So it's pulling.
There's an article written by, I think Mikolowski wrote an article called Enuma Eilish is like
Anzumith of these aren't my ideas, just so it's clear.
But the point is, it's the things that are different.
Marduk gives the tablet of destinies, there's no, he immediately establishes everything
and sets everything in order.
There are these names that are given to Ninorta at the end of the Anzumith.
There are 50 names given to Marduk at the end of the Enuma Eilish.
So the point is that there's intertextuality, very clear intertextuality between these two
myths, but they're similar enough, they're structured similarly enough that the reader
knows there's a connection, but it's the differences that count.
I love that.
When you think about the biblical text, for example, Genesis one is a good example.
I think I said example like nine times just then.
It's okay.
The Enuma Eilish, the way that it begins, it begins with a dependent clause, Enuma Eilish
went on high, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Genesis one begins with a dependent clause.
When God began to create the heavens and the earth, right?
You see the word to home in Genesis one.
It's the same root of Tiamat, right?
There's primordial water, chaos, chaos, right?
But the reader of Genesis one who knows the ancient Near Eastern, the Mesopotamian background.
That would be not even debated.
Because if you think about the Enuma Eilish, what is the Enuma Eilish?
The text that's recited every year in Babylonia at the Akitu Festival.
Oh my gosh.
Every year.
It's the New Year.
That's the thing that gets recited.
There's all kinds of cool stuff that happens at the Akitu Festival.
We can talk about this some other time, but the king gets slapped.
It's pretty cool.
Actually, I have a video just as a side note.
If you go to digital homerabian, type in Akitu, A-K-I-T-U.
You'll see me getting slapped because I have page.
What did I do?
Oh, that's what it was.
I talk about how the king gets slapped by the priest because he's supposed to be subservient,
whatever.
But at the end, I say of this short little video, I'm sitting there kind of close to
the camera and I say, what a way to ring in the New Year.
And she hits me.
And I say, by getting your clock cleaned, right?
Ring in the New Year, clock cleaned.
Anyway.
It was a yearly ceremony.
That's right.
But if you want to see me get slapped.
But the Akitu Festival, every year in Babylonia, it's the thing that the king has to be there
for it to go on.
And if you think back to Nabonidus, Nabonidus went for a ten-year hiatus out in Teima.
So he's not there for ten years.
So guess what festival couldn't take place?
The Akitu.
And that's a Marduk Festival because it's the Enuma Ailish, Marduk's main story that
gets, you know, he's the main deity of Babylonia.
So the Marduk priesthood is pissed at Nabonidus because their festival can't go on.
Anyway, it's all connected as the point.
So in other words, in captivity, the Israelites, those that are taken from Jerusalem, those
that are taken from Judah, they're in captivity in Babylonia.
They know the Enuma Ailish.
Yeah.
There's no doubt.
So when you see these connections in Genesis one, like their ears, whoa, right?
But it's the differences.
There's no battle in Genesis one.
He speaks.
He speaks.
Done.
So when you think about, like, this intertextuality of Marduk, Marduk just approaches, Kingu's
done.
The God of the Tablet, the God of the Tablet of the Destiny's done.
So the fact that God, Yahweh can speak, you know, God can speak, and it's de-mythologizing,
like the sea creatures, like the tiny neem, you know, they're like his playthings, you
know.
They're subservient, created, created.
So it's, it's de-myth, it's setting them in the background with the message of, our
God is so good, our God is so bad, right?
They're not even a thing.
They're all in the background.
It's almost like, Joe, where he says, can you play with Leviathan like a bird?
Yeah.
That's right.
It's like, whoa, and it's even more than that because it's like not even calling it
Leviathan.
Right.
It's just backdroping it completely.
So the idea that, well, we don't know which came, first of all, it's nonsense, right?
We do know.
We do know.
The textual tradition for things like the flood story much, much earlier than you see
in the biblical text.
I mean, Israel's not even, anyway, it doesn't matter.
But it's, it's more than that.
It's more than which one came first because if you, if you're asking the question, which
one came first, you're trying to, you know, you're not recognizing the beauty of the intertextuality
because what the flood story is doing, for example, if you think about the Mesopotamian
flood story, I said earlier, Enlil is evil because why does Enlil bring the flood?
It's too noisy.
Humans have overpopulated the earth, right?
And he said, but they're just so noisy.
Oh, I can't sleep.
And so I'm bringing a, I'm going to bring plague.
I'm going to bring, you know, famine.
I'm going to bring a flood.
I'm going to decimate the people.
Ultimately, at the end, um, he, he has like this demon that snatches children out and
that the point of it is to keep the human population down.
So he ultimately does get his way, but he's called evil for doing this thing to humanity.
Right.
All the gods are gnawing it.
They're, they're, you know, they're hungry, right?
Cause they need humanity to feed them.
When you get to Genesis six through nine, do you see Yahweh as evil?
Do you see Yahweh as capricious?
No, mankind is.
That's right.
The text goes out of its way to not only say mankind, you know, Yahweh is not evil, but
it was the only option he had.
This is why knowing the story, the narrative is so important because Yahweh, he, the text
says, at first of all, it talks about this, you know, brings in this plugs in this story
about, you know, the angels coming and, and having sex with, you know, the humans and
all the ramifications of that with Enoch later and whatever.
But then it says the, the, all the thoughts of his heart were only evil continually.
Yeah, desperately wicked, desperately wicked, right?
And so God's grieved at his heart that he made mankind.
And so he has to do it, has to, but he, not some tricky aya, not some other deity behind
his back.
No, he says, I'm going to save this righteous Noah and his family.
It's my, yeah, it's now I'm not being fooled.
This is my plan and I'm going to start over.
So it's again, the ears or the, you know, the eyes, whatever, of the, of the consumer of
this text and they're going to see Yahweh looks so much better.
Exactly.
They see the similarities and they just make it better.
They can draw on this.
I see what you're doing here in the same way that if I say Big Josh, Big Josh, if you know
that song, Big John, right?
Every morning at the mine, you can see him arrive.
He stood six foot six and wait two 45 kind of brought to the shoulder and there at the
hip, but everybody knew he didn't give no lip to Big Josh.
Okay.
Well, you know that song.
You hear that song.
You're like, yeah, and I'm doing something different with it.
I'm building a self up.
Right.
Right.
That was the first thing that came to mind.
I'm sorry, everybody, but you can, you can see, so you catch it.
All right.
I'm with him.
I'm with him.
Oh, there's the difference.
That's what he's emphasizing.
And that's what we have to do with something like the primeval history is, and tomorrow,
which by the time, by the time people view this, it will already be done.
Bruce Wells is coming on our channel, the engineers in the law specialist, but he's
coming on to talk about his new research that he's doing, and that is showing the
Garden of Eden story in its Mesopotamian background in its context.
And he had a presentation that he sent me and Megan, a paper that we could read
through and it's brilliant, brilliant.
It's going to be so good.
Go check it out, Bruce.
But digital hamaravi.
You got to go check him out.
Dr.
Josh, we're not done.
There's so much more here.
Um, thank you.
