All right, we're live at MythVision Podcast, ladies and gentlemen.
You see the question, be sure to subscribe to Andrew White's YouTube channel.
We're going to be talking about if the Bible is right, then Jesus is wrong.
And of course, this is actually going to be a deconversion story combined with someone
who studied heavily on Bible stuff.
In fact, they have a lot of overlap with me, and I've been talking to them for quite
some time, but I've never had them on the channel, and it's about dang time.
But before we bring them on, we have a little introduction from his channel to kind of ease
you into subscribing while you're at it.
So let's see what he has.
Take a look at this video sequence of two pulpit preachers actually preaching the opposing
views.
And he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
Then limited atonement is the only thing that makes sense.
Romans 5, Hebrews 2, 1 John 2, he died for all, he died for all, he died for all.
Well, that's not what Scripture teaches.
How can you call yourself a Bible-believing Christian and say, I believe the Bible's the
Word of God?
And then look at this verse, Hebrews 2, 9, and say, Jesus didn't die for everybody.
And here he's talking about a specific group of people whom the Bible calls the predestined.
I didn't make that up.
John Calvin didn't make that up.
Luther didn't make that up.
Spurgeon didn't make that up.
This is Paul speaking under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
You're a liar is what you are.
You're a false prophet is what you are.
It is a particular redemption that pays for specific individuals like you and I.
You don't believe this book.
You believe in lies written by man.
Wow.
That is strong views heated up together.
All right, everybody, meet Andrew White.
Welcome to MythFusion, Andrew.
Thank you very much.
That was eight years ago, by the way.
Well, thank you for that.
That was fun.
It always gets me a laugh.
I mean, think about this, right?
We're going to kind of take your deconversion story, go into your life a little bit about
your history dealing with Christianity, your research and studying, but we're these are
two very serious Bible believing Christians who are reading the same book or books and
are like coming up with opposite interpretations and it just goes to show you like how easily
people can interpret things in various ways.
Exactly.
I mean, that channel was an outworking of me with one of the issues that really did affect
my Christian life, which was just the diversity of Christian views.
And so I did the program, by the way, in a way that you wouldn't necessarily know whether
I was Christian or not, because I think you could do it as a Christian equally.
But what I simply did is a lot of the issues I went through myself, so including eschatology
and science and evolution, Calvinism and Arminism, I just went and found Christian to speaking
with the conviction of God, like you just saw there and you couldn't be more powerful
that they both thought that they are, it's from the Holy Spirit, it's the word of God,
completely opposite views.
And that's what the whole channel is about.
It's just showing the opposite views and you can go away and make of that what you will.
But for me, it was very damaging.
Wow.
So this is the YouTube channel.
I'm not going to back out because then it'll already refresh.
688 subscribers.
I hope, look, I would love to see us get to 900 or 1,000 if we could.
We've done it before.
We've accomplished quite big feats here on MythVision.
So subscribe to Andrew's channel.
I've got it pinned at the top.
So be sure to answer the question and subscribe.
He also has a podcast.
Both the channel and the podcast are in the description as well for those who are watching
this later.
And of course, we have courses at MVP courses with academics that you can go and take from
the convenience of your home and all 4K really high quality classes and we're doing more as
time goes by.
Consider joining our Patreon.
If you want to support us, be part of the family.
Each month, there's always a certain amount of people who drop off and I'm trying to keep
growing it.
It helps me keep doing what I'm doing here at MythVision.
Okay.
Now for the plugs are out of the way.
Andrew, who are you and what is your past?
We'll take questions along the way, but like, I want to get your story and then we can get
to taking people's questions.
Right.
Yes.
It's an interesting and long journey over many years.
I sort of hung on as a very, very devout evangelical Christian for many, many years starting from
when I was 11.
And other than that, I was a secular background, non-Christian family and everything else.
It was my parents that had sudden born again conversions in their 30s that then made us
as young kids and I was 11 at the time, follow through into Bible camps and Christianity and
all kinds of things related like a sudden world change from nothing to everything Christian
church going, sitting there and at a Bible camp, I became a Christian in the 70s.
And so I took it very seriously and it was a born again experience as far as I was told
and believed.
And so I was very serious.
But I realized very early on, I thought through even that young, particularly say 13 or 14,
I thought through theology and things to do with the faith in the Bible way more than
the people around me who just sort of had a sort of a Christian life that was devout,
but it wasn't as academic at all compared with me.
I was very academic.
I was researching all the time.
So you and me, we have a lot in common.
I'm going to ask the audience to join us.
And what I mean by that is wherever you are, if you're watching this, try and see if you
relate in some ways to what you hear our guests speak on, especially when it's deconversion
type stories or their history and eventually exiting Christianity.
You may not have a lot in common, but I try to latch onto the things that I do just like
you.
I wanted to dive deep.
I wanted to know the truth.
I wanted to be accurate.
And it was early on in Christianity when I heard different voices of Christians saying,
no, speaking in tongues ceased in the first century.
Why are you guys speaking in tongues?
Or the list goes on on what true practices or beliefs are.
And so yeah, please continue.
Well, yeah.
Well, basically, once I got from exactly what you just said, just launches off perfectly
because once I was in Bible camps and I was going through various things, I realized that
we were taught a certain form of theology, but I didn't realize it at the time.
I thought this was Christianity.
But very soon, probably one of the first areas was actually the difference in eschatology,
things to do with the end of the world.
I realized then, oh, I've been taught that I'm a pre-millennial dispensationalist, Israel
was special, there was a millennium, Jesus was coming back and was going to live in Jerusalem.
And that I thought was true eschatology, true end times.
And that was one thing.
We were in a church where only men, I discovered, I thought was normal, but only men could
lead worship and preach and stuff like that.
And so I then joined a movement at 18 called Youth With a Mission, YWAM.
So there'll be some people here on your channel, probably you've heard of Youth With a Mission
and YWAM, and they have a few stories.
It was when I went there that I realized there was a massive different forms of theology.
The original sin had a different view than what I was taught.
When I went there, we were in a worship team and if people on your channel are not familiar
with that, you know, it's church service, people leading the worship songs with guitars
and drums.
It was sort of pop church, if you like, charismatic.
I had come, I had moved into a charismatic.
So I'd gone from a cessationist church when my parents became Christians.
We moved fairly quickly to charismatic.
So that was probably the first difference.
I thought, oh, so hang on, so which one, oh, so we're right.
They are wrong for not having the spirit, right, I got that, you know, a millennia,
they're wrong.
Women teachers, that's wrong.
When I went to YWAM, they challenged original sin.
They had women worship leaders and women teachers in, it's like college, really.
It's like a form of Bible college.
And that really threw me.
And so suddenly my parents thought I'd got into some weird group because all the theology
was different.
And I was coming back saying different things.
I was saying, well, original sin, you know, where you're just all condemned in Adam, isn't
the biblical view.
And so, and I was moving that way.
And my parents weren't really happy with that.
And that was just the beginning of a number of changes.
And one of the biggest things in YWAM was something called open theism.
Now I'm not sure.
I think you, Derek, have looked into that or had people interviewed a well-known one.
And he's actually a wonderful person by the way, but yeah.
I think I've seen that episode.
Yeah.
So you have.
So open theism.
That then that was a lot later term.
And I think I forget what it was called at the time, but it was like, oh my gosh, my
mind was being blown by, I thought God, I wasn't a Calvinist.
So God didn't determine everything, but he certainly knew everything like, like you see
a film.
And by the way, can I do something here?
That's interesting.
Yeah.
His name is Thomas J. Ord for those who are interested.
Oh, but this goes right into our, like what you're already painting.
You're setting up a picture here for the audience to see the diversity and some of this diversity
you can see starts to get on that, that, that borderline of like, are you a Christian anymore?
If you believe that anymore?
Because they're the way a certain sect views the others and like fundamentals of what it
is to be in the faith.
Thomas wrote me, Derek, I hope this email finds you well.
I've got a new philosophy of religion book coming out that rejects omnipotence and offers
an alternative M, AMI, not AMI, AMI or AMI potence, among other things.
I argue that omnipotence dies a death of a thousand qualifications.
I'd love to send you a print of copy if you're interested.
Anyway, I was like, I'd love to interview you on that.
But the point is, this is like, please continue.
No, no, you're right.
Everything, everything almost I say could lead off to a rabbit trail of different thoughts,
doesn't it?
And, and, and yeah, so that book, I have heard of Thomas, that guy is an open theist.
And, but this was an early form, because this was right back in the 80s.
And it really threw me, but I also saw the when I saw people argue it from the Bible
verses, I thought, oh, my gosh, I'd never seen that before.
And this was again, this happened in every area that when you have someone with another
view, it's not that they're stupid.
It's like their tradition has just built up their theology around a certain set of very,
very face value reading texts that are just different from another set.
And then, and then you get these splits and I realized, oh, my gosh.
So what actually is true?
Do I take this set of texts, like, let's say, like with God's knowledge, you know,
you'd have people say, you know, God says, you know, to sacrifice Isaac.
And now I know.
Now I know.
It doesn't say now you'll know, because I already know or I've ordained it.
Now I know.
And it's like, oh, gosh, that may be the natural reading is that God didn't know.
OK, so it can't mean that.
So then we're back again to what does the Bible mean, even though we know what it says.
And I would say I could pick that concept that I just said and plonk it into every
different area, women in ministry.
You know, I permit not a woman to teach or have authority over a man.
Wow, says it right there in one Timothy.
And then someone else comes along and goes, ah, yes, but you see the word and the culture
and and suddenly we're back again to which is it then tell me.
And then the same with every other view going, you know,
the days of creation, you know, so it's like, you know, one or six days of creation.
So six 24 hour days of creation.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's kind of what it means.
And then but there was no sun on the fourth till the fourth day.
So how can we have a normal day?
Oh, no, what does it mean, you know, and anything like that?
And that's just that's just a fraction of all the areas that I would have
experienced and looked into.
So oh, man, there's so many good things you're saying that make a lot of sense.
And and then you you notice in our conversation here in our deconversion,
we constantly bring up what the text, what the scripture, a Protestant perspective.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because, you know, one might come from the high and mighty Orthodox Church
or the Eastern Orthodox or the Roman Catholics and go, yeah, shmah, who cares?
We have the Ecumenical Council.
We have the church as our authority.
And it's like, yeah.
So that makes it much better that you trust these men who have been running
this politically and throughout all these centuries.
You trust these men saying that God is pretty much guiding and controlling them
in a way so that the church is accurate, letting them be your authority
rather than the literature, the text.
And so no matter what path you take, you are going to run into a problem.
You have to trust that somehow we have apostolic succession that go directly
to Peter and there's some promise that the gates of hell will not prevail upon
the church, which Peter is the head.
And you get the point.
Like no matter what path you take, you have a problem.
Yeah, I'm sorry, just lagging there.
Just trying to follow it.
That's right.
Well, yeah, your your your audio came back to me a little staggered there
from when you when your image finished.
But OK, yeah, yeah, but you're back now.
Yeah, press one in the chat.
If I'm lagging, I know you're lagging at least visually, not audio wise.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, OK.
Press one if I'm lagging bad in the chat and then press two if I'm not.
That's a great way to do it.
That'll let the audience tell us what they're seeing.
One, I'm lagging one, two, I'm not.
And we'll see what people say.
So I mean, your audio, I'll have to go by your audio
because the audio is absolutely fine.
So I'm wondering if it's your connection that's causing me
because a lot of people are saying I'm not lagging.
Oh, OK.
So it's my connection then or it's my camera, probably.
Mixed. Yeah. OK.
But yeah, so it's just me.
So I so just go ahead and you'll you'll be fine.
I can hear you absolutely fine.
OK, like, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I think it's your side.
It's your side of things we're saying, and that's fine.
Someone says you'll never debate an orthodox.
These guys will never debate an orthodox Christian.
Look, I don't debate anyone, period,
whether I think I got the one up or not.
But at the end of the day, it's always about this debate.
It's always about debate.
Let's debate the text.
Let's debate whether or not our church really goes back to Peter.
Yeah, yeah. It's like, bro, like I'm not convinced.
So I mean, it's one of the obvious things I remember
because part of my story a bit later down the line
was when I went to Bible college, so I studied for a theology degree.
And I remember outside once with some some people
that I went through the course with.
And sometimes it's the simplest childlike questions
that are actually very powerful.
And I and everyone's talking like this, debates, discussions.
Let's look at the text.
Let's see what the Bible says.
And everyone's coming to different views.
And yet, at the same time, in my form of Christianity,
not only can you pray, but God can speak to you.
You know, so a childlike question is like,
oh, well, could God tell me then what's true?
Everyone's like trying to argue.
So, so Lord, is the Calvinistic text true?
Is it is that should we be?
Yes. OK, great. Thank you.
And then, of course, the next person to ask Jesus
would be saying the Armenian is true.
You know, so I just thought there's a big problem here.
We spend our time trying to find out what God is saying.
At the same time is saying that he could tell you.
But what he does tell you is vastly different
because I've witnessed it.
I've I feel the Lord is saying
the Holy Spirit is on this woman to preach and become a minister.
Hang around. I feel the Lord is saying that is of the devil
because Paul said, you know what I mean, in Timothy.
And so so asking God, the simplest thing of asking God to tell you
just doesn't work with reality.
So then we're back again. Let's debate.
Right, the best.
Yeah, it's like a it's like a debate in any area,
just like you can have a political debate.
Right, you know, so, yeah.
So that that was part of my journey.
I had to just throw that in.
Yeah, no, please continue on your story.
Yeah. OK, so so on the story, if I just go back a bit here.
So when I went to why I'm youth of the mission, that was I my brain
was getting frazzled with open theism,
with different view on original sin, women could now minister.
Then I sort of came across people in the local church.
Also, that was involved with
not only was sort of Armenian and charismatic,
but there was other areas as well.
And that was the scientific one.
So suddenly I came, you know, I was brought up a young
earth creationist, you know, that the the world was six to 10,000
years old, as they say, believe the word of God.
And these Darwin and the evolution is lies.
So I was actually actually in my teens,
taught that it was the lie so much so that if I watched a
biological program and someone said over here,
we have a very famous person called David Attenborough,
who does biology sort of like sort of programs about sort of not biology,
or it could tie into evolution and all sorts of stuff.
And if someone like that said, oh, we're at this rock
and this rock is like we've dated it to three billion years old.
An enemy now even still goes lies.
That's lies from the devil.
Even now I have a gut reaction because of my childhood.
And I don't know if anyone on your channel might witness to that.
But but back back then when when it was challenged and I and my
pastor in that church was an evolutionist, theistic evolutionist.
Wow.
They weren't even Christians from my teenage background.
This is now into my twenties.
And suddenly I thought, oh, and then I read some books.
And suddenly I thought, oh, my gosh, young earth creation is not
fairing well, certainly not with science.
And it's not fairing well with all the Bible text either in other parts.
And so I became an old earth creationist.
And then before that anyway, then I became a theistic evolutionist.
So I was literally at sea as a Christian who had trying to find the truth.
I found myself at sea all the time, changing to different views.
So actually, if you if you looked at my life story, you'd say, what does Andrew
believe? Well, it depends what five year period we're talking about here.
He believes that God, you know, ordains everything here, just knows everything here.
He doesn't know the future here.
Women can preach here.
He believes his theistic evolutionist.
Oh, my gosh, it was just so much to handle.
And I thought, what world are we living in when people are talking
about the Bible is true and you must believe this?
I mean, OK, so what about trying to embrace it all like a more liberal, progressive,
you know, let's just say, yeah, there's a place for young earth creationism.
There's a place for theistic evolution, Armenians, Calvinists.
Let's all just have a holy huddle.
But that doesn't work either because they break into camps condemning each other.
They don't they don't just, you know, they say, well, you're totally wrong.
And then you get the Ken Ham's young earth creationists say the whole foundation
of Christianity falls if there's no Adam and Eve and no literal creation.
Right. And then you think, OK, so those that like Peter ends and other people
that I know now who who don't accept that they they're not Christians in
or the foundation crashes.
And so basically with these ideas, I started to really and and that's
before I went to Bible college.
I was starting to doubt I think what not the faith just I just realized
I was being told a load of nonsense, but I didn't know quite what the non-nonsense meant.
Because what am I going to find out for yourself, though?
I mean, yeah, yeah, I did.
And people said to me, yeah, I that's where I was different from a lot of peers
that I went through college with who's still in the faith who knew all the stuff
that I found out. But for me, I had a strong thing.
I want to know the truth.
I think I'd been batted around left, right and center with all these different ideas.
And it's more subjects as well.
It's not just that it's like, oh, no, not another one that's that's people disagree
on, not another area, you know, and that's that's just within evangelicalism.
So if you go to Catholic, like you said, you've got extra seven books.
You've got any.
I think it's one of the orthodox that has even more books than the Catholics do.
And I thought, OK, so the Bible is what I thought it was 66 books inspired by God.
But but these other books that seem to have good attestation in history
that were in church history, considered scripture before the Reformation.
And I thought, oh, no, should I be a Catholic then, you know?
And then I thought, well, how can that be the way?
Is that the Word of God or not the Word of God?
And then then I found textual criticism.
Suddenly you realize that John, the woman called an adultery, wasn't in the Bible.
The ending of Mark wasn't it was tacked on later and people were pushing things around.
And and you think, oh, my gosh, it's not quite as pristine as I thought.
And so I had to account for that.
And you do you don't lose your faith over these things.
I didn't. But it's just that I became more liberal, more progressive.
And therefore, more attacked by other people who think you're going off the track
just because you're saying, look, I have to accept that the best understanding
is the end of Mark is not in the Bible.
He even says it, you know, in most of the manuscripts.
And it's like, well, no, we think it's the Word of God.
And so you then find yourself.
Finding yourself happy in different groups,
because other groups are a bit too fundamentalist for you as you do your own journey.
And then this path kept going for me, you know, and then I went to Bible College
and then, whoa, then it all started to unravel.
Because I went because I wanted to peel off what I called pseudo Christianity.
I don't know if that's a good term to use, but you know what I mean by that, you know,
define it for us just to be right.
Well, they called it they called it even at college when I went to Bible
College, they called it folk Christianity, i.e.
there's a sort of things that build up in people that are just in the pews
rather than in studying the Bible or at theology college.
Folk theology would just have things that aren't really part of even older
Christian traditions or even part of the Bible, but they just become normative.
I mean, even views like dying and going to heaven, for example,
is a very popular Christian view.
But actually, it's not really kind of a biblical one in the narrative
of the Old Testament by any means.
And even in the new, there's not quite this die and go to heaven
that it's really sort of the imminent end and Jesus coming back in a kingdom
and not a lot about this sort of what happens when you die.
And yet so folk theology would be you just die and go to heaven, you know,
if you're a Christian.
And and so it's sort of getting rid of those sort of mythological
Christianities, I wanted to get to the truth.
And what happened was that I felt it was like an onion.
And I was peeling away a layer that we're going to get there soon.
So I got rid of that. Oh, yeah, got rid of that.
This is more biblical, got rid of that.
And then finally, what happens when you peel an onion?
You there's nothing in the end.
You just peel the last day.
Yeah, and you got that very good analogy.
I love it. You cry all the way, which is probably what I was doing in with
because it wasn't an easy journey.
So and so at Bible College, when I when I started to engage in writing
papers for various subjects,
I had to engage with more critical books, sometimes non-Christian scholars,
sometimes Christian scholars, but just more progressive and honest Christian
scholars. And they made so much sense.
I thought, oh, my gosh, I've always struggled with that passage.
That makes so much sense.
But now that means that the passage has had redacted and it's been changed
and it's been evolving.
And it's like, oh, oh, so the Bible isn't quite what I wanted it to be.
And I'd have to say that when people say that you want to leave the faith
because you want to, for some sort of moral reason, right?
For me, that wasn't it. It like sin because that's often said, isn't it?
For me, I went down fighting.
I had a shock of my life when I finally thought, oh, no,
I don't think any of it's true.
But that came a bit further down the line.
Yeah, you'll get there.
And then I threw all these views at college and engaging with these writers.
I thought they made a lot more sense about the documentary offices of the Old
Testament, and I thought that makes a lot of sense.
Now, that makes sense.
Oh, that makes sense.
And suddenly everything was making sense.
But it was I wasn't they were even at the college.
I was that was expecting me to argue against them in my essay and I wasn't.
It's coming to this conclusion that, say, Paul didn't write all of his letters.
It's like, whoa, you can't say that.
Here's an evangelical college.
But I just found myself being persuaded by the more liberal
Bible scholarly views, not non-Christian atheists or anything like that,
but just Bible scholar stuff.
It really did shatter my evangelical view of the Bible.
Put it that way at that point.
So, you know, can I can I give an amen here and say, I I feel you.
I did the same thing.
I was I was conservative evangelical and you were supposed to avoid
the liberals scholarship.
You know, obviously, those are really not true Christians and stuff.
We kind of create this propaganda within our little circles.
But it was it was later on, actually, while I've been to a myth vision
that I'm talking to experts on Paul, who really highlighted how Paul
is in the gospels as well, are taking liberty at kind of the
Peshir technique.
They're rewriting scriptures and saying that these scriptures are fulfilling
Jesus, but in their original context, have zero to do with the context
that we're saying that they're using them for in the New Testament.
Paul does this often and reusing the scriptures to his own suited
suiting his own context.
And I went, you mean to tell me and notice the word of news.
He took liberty with scripture to write it, how he saw fit.
This guy was liberal.
I mean, he was not taking it for what it meant and said.
So it really started to shock me.
You mean that the New Testament authors themselves are literally
not getting the literal understanding of what the Hebrew scripture is saying
in its original context when they are saying that it is written or whatever.
So it made me go, what the heck is going on?
If they can take that liberty and that liberal approach, then why am I a
conservative evangelical taking this so literal when there's like so much
ambiguity and flexibility on how the meaning of this text can be done,
especially in light of all the diversity to the point where there's animosity
amongst the sex.
That's where I, you know, started to like kind of evaluate this as well,
like what in the world, but it didn't end my Christianity at all.
It never ended that.
I just really recognized it when I got a myth.
They should go and speak in the Pauline academics.
Yeah, on that.
I mean, that because I remember going through that phase and realising
that the New Testament writers were doing everything that we shouldn't do
as current, you know, we weren't allowed to do that.
And it's like, hang on, how come they are, you know, they're taking the passages
because you often criticise, isn't it?
If someone says, oh, you're taking that scripture out of context
and applying it to this, say, theology, theological view,
I only to realise that I'm just copying Matthew's style.
You know, so out of that later,
when you get to the point of your deconversion, I want to come back to that
this idea that why I think fundamentalism works so well,
even if it's dead wrong and why I think that the liberal approach,
honestly, I don't get it for me
because I don't need it, but that's a whole different we'll get there.
And I think a lot of people who are liberal Christians watching this at some point
try to understand what we're saying from this angle, at least.
And I like I have no problem with people who believe at the end of the day,
if that's their decision,
my goal is to try and help defame fundamentalism because it creates so many problems.
But please continue with the story.
Yeah, yeah, no, I totally agree.
I mean, I've got most of the friends that I've got that are still Christian
are on the liberal end.
So it's like I just can't gel very much with the fundamentalist mindset.
It's just too it's to be honest,
it almost gets to the stage of feeling almost like a brainwashing state,
at least progressives and liberals.
They sort of feel so much more honest, you know, they struggle with the text.
Anyone that struggles with the Bible, I have a lot of respect for.
They look, I read Joshua and I read Jesus, certain parts of Jesus.
And I see a massive conflict and I struggle and why.
And that's a good sign to me that is a good.
My theology, my theology professor of ethics or something in the college,
he said that when you talked about the sort of genocidal passages in
in when he had students come through year after year after year.
And I talked to him afterwards about this.
I said, you know, what about these passages?
He sort of go into the land and slay everything that breathes.
Men, women, children, you know, animals.
And he said that what he worried about was Christians had no problem with that.
He's in college.
He said they read it and they go, well, that's that's our wonderful God.
That that's worrying.
That's what's worrying, you know, and he said that he would much prefer someone
comes here and says, you know, I'm awake at night thinking,
Jesus loves me, love your enemy,
commanding a Canaanite to go into the land of Canaan
and literally put a sword through men, women, children, babies,
pregnant women, probably animals and leave nothing that breathes.
And then God tells them if they do leave something that breathes,
you know what I mean?
And it's like, I just don't get it.
I can't see is that what Jesus really do that?
That's to me, that's the point I'm making.
It's like the cognitive dissonance at least is being humanized.
Your humanity is trumping the moment.
That's the way I like to talk about it now.
There's something human in you that can actually see above that.
And that's that that was how I I do it.
I thought, yeah.
And what I've seen is that it's the humanity in people
that sometimes rises above their dogmatism in whatever it is.
And that's why I wouldn't want to be a dogmatic atheist either,
by the way, I could talk about that later, OK?
Because it's dogmatism that really I think is a big problem.
Yeah. I'm with you.
Please take. So we we you're in college.
You are in college.
Yeah. And then you are like, whoa, what the heck?
Well, around about that time in college, I discovered two people.
You know, I mentioned about the critical
liberal liberal scholars and stuff that I read.
And they're really, really good books.
And I liked it. And from that, I linked on somehow to around about 2007,
discovering two people that had a big effect on me.
And one was Bart Ehrman.
And the other was Bob Price, as you know, very well.
And I discovered both of them at that time of really, really wanting
to engage wider than the evangelical world.
And Bart Ehrman, it was more the books.
And Bob Price, it was a couple of books, but mainly the podcast that he did.
And I just got into Bob Price's mind and I thought, wow,
what an encyclopedia of knowledge that is.
And I did research. I didn't just believe anything he said.
I just thought, wow, that's maybe want to go and look at this, look at that.
Red Bart Ehrman.
And the reason that Bart Ehrman really affected me was that or both of them,
actually, was that they both were Christian at one point.
And then they had a journey, their own journey.
And I could have seeds of this journey myself like a like I was an embryonic
person using born again metaphor, but out of the faith.
I was like an embryo coming out of the faith, reading these people
who once were a long time ago.
So that reality obviously was sitting in my mind.
And I thought, but still loving the Bible.
And that's another thing. They both love the Bible.
And I still love the Bible.
I think you do.
Yeah. Right.
And I've shifted from wanting to know in the end of the story, I'll get there again.
But, you know, loving the Bible anyway, in what I do now with my podcast.
And so I'm not one of these, not an atheist of any kind of a sort
that trashes everything. I love the Bible.
And I would make a very good, if I'd taken a different path,
I'd make a very good non-Christian scholar.
I think if I could have had the money, time or inclination that way,
or even a chance, you know, and so anyway.
So but when I got about that time, I was following them.
Also, I was then struggling with end times a bit more for some reason.
I think I think there was a lot of stuff going on.
Are you sure you're not telling my story?
Yes, I'm a Derek slightly before your time.
You're my dad. Yeah.
You're following me.
I'm following you, man.
I just never met you yet.
Yeah. And so that's right. That's right.
And so I think it was because I was brought up, obviously,
with the rapture was around the corner.
And it was literally this was back in the seventies.
The rapture is coming, Andrew.
It to be where I really affected my entire life.
And I don't know if anyone else listening to your channel
would actually witness to this.
But actually, if you are saturated with apocalyptic stuff as a child,
the end is coming.
It doesn't matter.
Even if you end up losing your faith, something goes in as a child
and you still think the world is about to end.
And anything that happens is the end.
Even if you academically think this is nonsense,
there is a gut reaction to we're not here long.
The rapture could be coming.
I was deeply affected when I was young around about the time
when I was about 13 or 14, we were subjected.
I would use the word now to some films called the
they were remade a lot later called the left behind series,
which a lot of your listeners would.
It's not listeners, is it?
What would you call?
Yeah, viewers, listeners, viewers, listeners, whatever.
They would know about the left behind things.
But this was a seventies version.
And I did send you a couple of clips, I think, of them.
And they were like really, really frightening stuff.
I mean, much more than the clips I've seen of the left behind stuff.
I think it was because the makers of them were actually
in the past had made horror films and now they're making these rapture films.
So they were called left.
They were called a thief in the night and a distant thunder and something else.
There's four of them.
They were horrifically frightening with anyone
that's left in the rapture will get beheaded and stuff like that, you know,
who doesn't who's missed the rapture, basically.
And then if you if you don't recant your faith in the tribulation,
you get beheaded and stuff.
This is frightening to show to children and to young teens, I feel now.
I think that's abuse, actually, personally.
And I've actually met friends of mine
probably 20 years later and we all watched the first one and had a laugh at the movie
just to almost have a bit of healing from it,
because it's actually very badly made at the same time as being really frightening.
It's a mix.
And anyway, so that that rapture idea, the idea of the end times coming soon
and then all these views, it's coming soon.
It's still around. It's still around in people I know.
Things happen in the world.
Covid comes. It's really the end now.
Back in 2000, that was definitely going to be the end. Why not?
Nice round figure.
Jesus is coming back. Didn't happen.
So this was always affecting me.
And I suddenly started to think there must be a scholarly way to look at this
rather than all this folk, what you call back again to the folk theology.
This just nonsense and stuff.
And so I did a lot of research into the history of the Second Coming and stuff like that
and realized not all at once, but just slowly I was putting pieces together
that I realized that a lot of Matthew 24 had to do with the destruction of the temple.
And that has that that focus has not been taught to me.
I had to stumble across this and I'm thinking, oh, that's interesting.
That's interesting. Oh, OK.
So a lot may have been maybe a lot of revelation might have been back then as well.
That's that that will be interesting.
And I felt that that would probably ease up this imminent expectation
constantly to see if we can go somewhere in that way.
And then I had because I remember as again going after back again,
I can remember being a teen in a house group and we were all reading the Bible.
And I can remember explicitly it was saying some standing here
shall not taste death until they see the kingdom of God come in power.
And then there was a new believer in the group and I was puzzled with it.
And she said, wow, it looks like Jesus was going to come back.
Her natural reading, she didn't know any theology.
She's a brand new Christian off the street.
And she said, that sounds to me like the Second Coming
that I've heard about is is happening before they died out.
And then somebody stepped in and said, no, it doesn't mean that means transfiguration
or it means the inception of the church and stuff like that.
And I can remember that discussion way back.
This was probably when I was about four, maybe 15, 16.
And and that sort of went in and I thought, oh, yeah.
And then so I'd had those things going on in my mind.
But then as I was reading some more books,
I then heard of this movement called Praterism.
And at first it was Kenneth.
It was Gary DeMar and it was Kenneth Gentry.
So it was partial.
I then I think I'll let you.
You can actually speak a little bit more after this.
OK, I'll just say, I get it.
I get it. I was like you.
My left behind was the more modern one, of course.
I guess the more modern one. Yeah, I was that.
And then it was like I would became more serious and strict
with the Bible College, just like you.
It's almost like your story is my story.
And I legit bumped into us.
My my professor was my pastor at this
Evangelical College, who told me you should read this book.
And he hands me this book, A Case for Amillennialism,
after I was a premilled despy who had all the fear and dreams
and nightmares of the Second Coming.
Boom, Red Amillennialism became an Amillennialist
because it sounded better than what the hell I already believed.
And then I found out about post-millennial
partial Praterism by R.C.
Sproul, Kenneth Gentry, Gary DeMar, you name it, right?
So I'm with you.
I'm in your shoes right now, walking with you.
And I hope the audience is paying attention.
Yeah, you've actually summed it up.
So basically we are.
You I have lived your prior life or one way or the other,
which we have around it is you're living my prior life
because that's it. It was in that route.
And by the way, I have to say this wasn't just
this was over a long period of time as well
in terms of the different views.
I had actually gone from premillennial dispensationalist
and in my 20s when I came to YWAM,
the whole Israel thing went out for me
in terms of Israel being the key to everything,
like the geographical geopolitical nation.
I had I was starting to have views against that in my 20s,
which caused a lot of tension in my family.
And then I then went to even before that,
I'd had a millennial book and I thought,
ah, I read that book and then as probably 18.
And I thought, gosh, that's pretty persuasive.
I think Amillennialism has got something for it.
So that that didn't sit well with my family.
So that that was that.
But that was way back.
And then a little later,
I then started to look at post-millennialism
and that was when I read Gentry and I thought,
he's pretty good and he wrote a book on Revelation.
I read that is pretty good.
I thought it was amazing.
So I'm going down this route.
Then I read Gentry's book on the book of Revelation
and I thought, no, it doesn't work.
It was so it just I just didn't fit.
It didn't fit the futurist or it didn't fit.
That's where the weakness was for me on post-millennialism.
And then I was starting.
I love Gary DeMar's book, Last Day's Madness.
It had a tremendous effect on me.
I read DeMar and I thought you cannot come away from this
without being impacted by the soon and near concepts in the Bible.
So he was probably the first one that.
And then he still talked about the second coming, coming later.
And I thought, ah, you're saying good things over here.
But Paul, suddenly that's the same phrase,
means something thousands of years.
It's not even going to happen yet in DeMar's view,
probably not for a thousand years, more even.
And I thought there's something you know what I mean?
I was battling with it.
I was saying, and then I realized the term was partial praetorist.
They made reference to the so-called heretics of full praetorist.
So yes, oh my gosh.
OK, so carry on.
Let me make a comment here for those.
This is inside.
So we're having we're having inside language here.
And I want to pop that bubble to let anyone who might be tuning in, going,
what exactly are they talking about?
Yeah, Jesus made some statements in these gospels
and Paul in his letters about the near and soon coming of the Lord,
the new the soon Parasia, the Greek word, specifically of the coming king,
which would have been something that Alexander the Great
when he came to conquer, he was coming to visit or a Caesar or somebody
would have a Parasia to come and visit where the king was coming.
And he was coming soon and near Mellow in Greek, which is a meaning soon.
This is a time statement that like if I said I'm coming,
hey, I'm going to do a podcast soon.
That gives time relation to what we're doing,
which is why you see a redefinition of soon and days in 2 Peter 3.
But what what I found really interesting in what you're saying here
is that all of these people, they made so much sense.
Kenneth Gentry, Gary DeMar, R.C.
Sprawl, a lot of people. Yes, I read Sprawl.
Yeah, Sprawl was good.
And I listen to all these guys and they all made a lot of sense in saying
some of this stuff is talking about Jesus Day.
Christians are talking about in the future.
No, they're wrong.
The only way to understand this is first century context,
not off into the distant future.
If you want to know what the historical setting is,
however, they would hold on to certain baggage.
We didn't think of it that way.
I thought they were just they were right.
I mean, they how could they how could they not be right?
I didn't know Matthew 24, Luke 21, Mark 13,
was about the destruction of the Jerusalem temple
and that all this is fulfilled according to these texts in the first century.
Words implied that it was.
So if they got that right, they must be right about everything else.
And then they would reference, like you said, in these podcasts and reading their books,
the hyper pretorist, the full pretorist, these bad heretics.
These guys go all the way and they made it a little common.
It never even sunk in when this happened that they say
Jesus Second Coming happened in the first century.
And I'm like, you're you're right.
They're crazy.
I mean, who would ever think Jesus actually came back in the first century?
That's nuts.
We're still waiting for the Lord.
Keep it up. Amen.
R.C. Sproul. Amen.
Kenneth Gentry and Gary Demar.
Now, and then he right, actually, yeah, into right.
But he kind of does a it's a little different.
But yeah, it's still it's still there without a doubt.
Yeah.
OK, you're absolutely.
You're absolutely right.
You're absolutely right.
And and the funny thing is, is that I found it a bit like it's a rabbit trail
or it's a progression that you you're on this roller coaster that way.
Because once I started to hear, oh, this ridiculous notion of the Second Coming
happened, I then.
This I mean, R.C. Sproul gave a glowing review of J.
Stuart Russell's book called The Peralse.
I believe I believe that's the case.
And obviously didn't agree with it in many ways.
But he said it was the most one of the most impacting books it had on him.
So this was a book that was talked about by and then I realized
the notion of of partial praetorists was like, what?
OK, I mean, what's the best way to sum up a partial praetorist?
I probably would say that they would probably say that so much in Matthew
24, when the disciples said, when shall these things be?
When shall these things happen?
See all these temple here, all these stones?
When should it be?
And then he goes on to talk about all these signs and just that and the other.
But when you see the abomination and then, you know, he's talking to the disciples.
Damar was very good about this.
He's talking to them.
They're asking him in the question of when Jesus is giving an answer of when
this generation shall not pass away to them.
As a praetorist would often say, the Bible was written.
Not to us, but for us.
And in this case, Jesus spoke to them.
They asked the questions.
He's talking to the disciples that when Lord, you know, because they thought
they had questions like, Lord, when we come in your kingdom,
can we sit on your left and your right?
They were thinking about probably 12 seats in some right soon, you know.
And so it wasn't like, and I remember as a kid reading this and I was thinking,
when, when, when they say, when I then jump to this generation that we're in now,
as if Jesus is speaking through history to us, you know, and it's like,
oh, so it's going to be soon for us.
That's the way I did it.
It's funny, isn't it?
I mean, it dawned on me.
What would it have meant for them then?
Exactly, because you don't, it's so easy to see through your own eyeballs.
And I think it's about you, because you're reading this 2000 year old book
and then you're like, I'm coming.
Behold, I'm coming quickly.
Behold, I'm coming soon.
And you're going, OK, Lord, like as if he's taught whoever this author
who wrote this is talking to you about what's going to happen.
No. And that's what criticism taught me.
Not to do that, because soon becomes evacuated.
And I tell you why, because I haven't had a discussion with my, my parents
recently on this saying that, look, they were saying 40 or 30 years,
or probably 40 years ago now, that Jesus was coming soon and near.
And it was about to happen and the rapture was coming.
Get ready.
And I'm saying, you know what those words mean, because you told me
that this was soon.
And even now they're still saying it soon, but they're stretching it
because it's 40 years now and they're still saying it soon.
But but they know what it means.
And then when they go back to the Bible to read soon and near and about to come
and the kingdom of God is near and get ready and the the chaff will be burnt up
and stuff, they suddenly lift that out or do gymnastics with it.
And that's another point, by the way, just to go there.
I had realized in reading tomorrow and everything else that this guy,
when it comes to what you call the time texts, you've been familiar with that
as a preterist, you they talk about the time, one of the time texts.
This generation should not pass away to not taste death, you know, soon near
in the end of Revelation, I'm coming soon.
These things must have been short shortly.
And now I've lost my point.
I was going to say on that.
What was it? Oh, yeah, all it was.
Damar was actually spot on in certain, being honest, I think,
with what the natural meaning of the text was.
And what I noticed my family and other people doing all through history,
so all through my history was doing slate of hand tricks.
This generation means that generation, the one I'm talking about at the end.
That's a slate of hand.
Yeah, that's a slate of hand.
Is that Lord, when will these things be?
Well, that generation, you know, the one was way, way down.
That's right.
That that that generation shall not pass away.
That's not answering.
Because when will that generation be the next question, you know?
And then not only that, the context as Damar points out in his book,
this generation all over the shop clearly means the current one of Jesus time.
But just the one in Matthew 23, woe to this generation.
You know what I mean? He's not talking.
Nobody that I know thinks that was talking to us.
That's the Pharisees. Yeah.
So OK, so you lift out the same phrase, same writer, one chapter later.
It says the same thing.
It's obvious it means the same thing as it did in Matthew 23, obvious to me.
And so Damar, I thought, oh, thank goodness he's being obvious here.
And then you don't get this trick.
And then soon, you know, it means I watched someone on YouTube
the other day saying, oh, yeah, but you see, it means quickly.
When when the Lord does come is going to come fast.
That's a slate of hand.
I'm Paul said I'm coming to see you soon or something or quickly.
I mean, he didn't mean, you know, I may come 20 years and then I'll run there.
You know, so I found these things a slate of hand.
It's like the time text are being twisted, particularly by fundamentalists
who say, believe the word of God, the word of God says, you know,
the ones that don't believe women should preach because Paul said,
I permit not a woman to teach.
I am coming soon and give that a free pass.
Yeah, they do that.
Yeah. And another example, a good example, just to show our audience,
in Daniel, which is our second century B.C.
writing, Daniel has a place where the angel tells Daniel
to seal up the words of the prophecies that are written in the scroll.
For the time is far off.
Now, of course, the author is supposed to be living
in the sixth, seventh century during the fall of Babylon and the Persians
coming in, I think, sixth century.
But anyway, we're talking about hundreds, four, five,
six hundred years before the time of Jesus.
And there's the four hundred and ninety years.
So he says, seal it up, meaning it don't open it, close it up.
It's it's far off, far.
At max, we say five hundred years.
OK, five hundred years were two thousand years from Jesus.
Think about the math here.
So this was something that these partial
preterist and then, of course, hyper preterist made a lot of sense on.
You go to the book of Revelation, which picks up that same motif.
The angel says to John on the island of Patmos at the end,
do not seal up the words of the prophecy written in this book for the time
is at hand.
So Daniel says, seal it up.
It's far off five hundred years.
This angel says, don't seal it up.
It's about to happen.
This what what is about to happen?
The contents of the book of Revelation,
because the first chapter of Revelation says,
write these things down, which must soon mellow.
Take place.
So from the beginning of Revelation to the end,
they pretty much give you the whole overview and say,
don't seal up the words here.
This is all supposed to happen soon.
And we, as Christians, have been reading this,
thinking revelations about our future.
It's about now. It's about what's going on.
Two thousand years is not soon.
If five hundred years is far off, you see,
so the Bible itself contradicts that very issue
for those fundamentalists who believe that this is true.
So that that was something that really, really.
That's right. I mean, that's a what that's a bit of a smoking gun argument
because of it shows you that the book of Daniel
is capable of using language for a distance. Right.
You know how people say, well, look, it's God's time.
It's soon in God's view.
You know, that's another argument that people use.
I know, in fact, the Bible itself starts to stretch that idea.
Doesn't it? God's God's timing, not yours.
When shall these things be?
Well, in our time, you know, it's all confusing, isn't it?
But at least Daniel does show you.
OK, so what if the Bible was to use language for delay or not just delay,
but far off because, well, he would have said in Revelation,
seal this up to the year 2000 as the song goes, you know,
let's all get together in the year 2000.
So it didn't do that.
So so so it means that Revelation.
It's it's saying this is different from Daniel and Daniel's fictive,
I know, because, of course, it's the second century writer
who's who's wanting it to come to life in his own day, the author's own day.
But actually, the character has projected himself
knowing it's not going to be back in the sixth century.
It's second century, isn't it?
And even then, that was not Jesus's time in Daniel.
That's the Greek period, you know,
of what, 170 or something like that, 174.
But but nevertheless, the principles are there.
So the Bible has a way of saying this is far off and this is distant.
And yet it doesn't do that with anything to do with the end times
until we get to some sort of wiggle room,
perhaps in what, to Peter, isn't it?
Yes. But again, that's a second century document, probably now, you know,
then I wonder they're going to try and do something
because it's not happening.
And that's two generations gone now, maybe three, you know, absolutely.
I love that we went into the weeds a little here
for people to see what went in our minds, what we were thinking.
Yes. And so getting on to your track of your story.
You are now going, I can't deny this.
I believe the Bible is God's word.
It says some things.
These partial preterists have a point.
You believe it.
Absolutely, absolutely have an amazing point
on the what I would call the time text, the soon and the near
and this generation, some tasting, you know, the classic one,
some some standing here should not taste death till the sheath of the kingdom of God
says it in more explicit in Matthew, I believe in Matthew.
It talks actually the verse before it talks about God coming in judgment
to give the pay reward, the deeds of everybody right there.
Sounds just like a major judgment,
say in the book of Revelation or or the or the Great White Throne,
actually, to be honest, sorry, not great with the sheep and the goats.
It's it seems to be big like that.
And then right after that, and it says, you know,
is if people don't often quote it with the verse before, because it sounds to,
you know, when the Son of Man comes in his kingdom,
this some standing here is not to this till they see that till they see
the Son of Man coming in his kingdom.
That's even more explicit, I believe in Matthew.
And that's exactly the same language as coming when the sheep and the goats
and all the rest of it, some stuff.
So it's so obvious that it means that what I found was is that if Christians
are taught, fundamentalists anyway, conservatives are taught to be honest
and truthful and you believe the word of God, OK?
And I'm thinking they're not believing the word of God,
because this is what it says.
And this this gets into something very deep a bit later,
as we talked about before we came on air.
But you've got to believe the word of God and as a Christian.
And so to me, this isn't a secular critique at the Bible,
although obviously that is a secular critique of the Bible.
But for Christians, it's actually are we going to be honest with the text or not?
Are we going to?
Why do we twist the text to fit theology?
You know, that shouldn't be the case, but the fundamentalists do it.
Young Earth creationists, I always struggled with this.
They are so strict on the days of creation, six 24 hour days.
When it comes to this side, not we don't take it like that.
We do something else.
Yeah, I was very surprised.
Again, Damar again, brought this issue up.
He couldn't understand why why young Earth creationists
weren't taking these time texts of face value, you know,
because theology is stopping you. That's why, you know, you know,
cognitive dissonance is a gun of a gun.
And just to read a little context there, that was my favorite one.
I would use Matthew over Mark or Luke because I was so clear.
It was a hammer that I would use against other Christians as a Christian.
Yeah.
Then Jesus told his disciples, verse 24, if any man would come after me,
let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me for whoever will save his life
will lose it and whoever loses his life for my sake, we'll find it.
For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his life?
Or a soul or what a man?
What shall a man give in return for his life for the son of man?
This is the point. We always know that one.
You know, like, what if what is a profit a man?
We know that verse, but usually they don't go from this for the son of man
is is to come with his angels in the glory of his father.
And then he will repay every man for what he has done.
Truly, I say to you, Jesus said, right, according to the gospel,
there are some standing here who will not taste death
before they see the son of man coming in his kingdom.
Amazing. It's so explicit.
Appreciate, brother, because that's the word of God.
I mean, it's what this is. Yeah. Right.
So then some people then say, that's the transfiguration and you thinking,
come on, nobody died six days later.
No way. And nobody died.
Nobody died. And why would you say to a group of people anyway?
Some say it's a bit of a weird thing to say.
If you said to a group of people about something next Sunday,
some of you standing here will not taste death until, you know,
we go to church next Sunday.
That's a bit like, whoa, it doesn't fit.
Because it's angels plus the verse before is so much like the sheep and the goats.
This is the same writer.
This is the author of Matthew, who's actually writing through to Matthew 25
with the sheep and the goats, son of man coming in the kingdom.
This generation should not pass away.
Similar language in terms of son of man coming this generation.
I mean, in one sense, you could argue the most plainest teaching in the Bible
is exactly this. They or Jesus or the authors, if it wasn't Jesus,
the writers of the gospel certainly thought that putting Jesus'
mouth, even if that is the case, that somebody would still be alive
when it when it happens, you know, and that's that's one of the twelve.
And that's when the full thing of whatever they thought the second coming was.
So to get back to my story on this,
what really happened was that I then read J.
Stuart Russell's 19th century book because this is like the
bow down to full praetorist kind of book, although some full praetors
have gone further than him.
But he was like Sproul gave that book.
He said the book is absolutely knocked in for six.
That's an expression we have over here.
I don't know if you have that over there.
But it certainly absolutely like was an impressive book that even Sproul's
theology probably couldn't let him go, but he certainly felt the power of it.
And I did as well.
I read that book.
It's better than anything like DeMauro and all these modern writers.
I just thought it was a fantastic 19th century book.
But it did two things for me.
It absolutely cemented the fact of what we've just been saying with all these
soon near verses went through the whole New Testament and made a lot of sense
of John the Baptist, these verses, these quotes, the soon, the near.
And I just thought you can't read that book and come out and say it wasn't
going to happen soon, according to the writers of the New Testament
through the Gospels, Pistles, everything.
The only thing I thought he stretched a little bit was say trying to sort of
because, of course, even he's got a view that's quite settled and therefore
you've got to fit everything in nicely like to Peter and all these things.
So I noticed he was doing that and I know is everyone does that.
But for the main part, I came away thinking, OK, so it all had to happen,
or the Bible is wrong.
And just I love what you're saying.
I just want to make a comment about James.
He's a Bible believing Christian.
So when you say you had to neatly package this, this is a gentleman
who's doing his best to be as honest as he can with what he's seeing.
Yet he still has to kind of fudge things to fit this systematic theological
perspective. Yes.
And so you're realizing just for the whole audience to get what's going on.
This everything Jesus said that was supposed to happen was supposed to happen
soon, number one.
Therefore, it had to happen.
Or Jesus is wrong.
Yes. Yes.
Well, that's the when we first talked
of fair before this about doing this podcast, that the way that I
had encapsulated not losing my faith, but losing, opening myself up
to a whole new world that I could never, ever believed I could have got to.
Because I realized that I did everything I could.
I went through all the end time views to try and make sense of the text.
And the closer I was getting to understanding the text,
it was definitely in the praetorist language camp and understanding.
That's the most honest side of looking at the time texts.
I felt that that wasn't distorting the meaning of the text.
OK, where I had a problem was the conclusions.
Oh, so there was a particular point where I read Stuart Russell's book
and it backfired massively on what probably he intended his book to ever do.
I mean, it was written in 18 something or other.
And the reason it backfired was that I had already got to the stage of
realizing that some of the writers in the New Testament weren't the original
writers like to Peter was a second early second century book,
which talked about the second coming.
The where is this second coming around?
That's well after destruction of true.
I thought, you know, that doesn't fit.
And then John and perhaps acts now, possibly even the second early
second century document that a lot of people are thinking now,
like some of the scholars you've had on, you know, but even back then I was
realizing, oh, but to John and the epistles of John, I'm absolutely sure
from my reading that they really make sense as written after like late first century.
And so they still refer to the the time is short.
The hour is here. You know, there's another one, isn't it? The hour.
It's not just it's not the day anymore.
Yeah, it's now the hour.
What language is the last hour hour? Yeah.
Now, I don't I don't mean that he's literally like he's got a clock
and he's going, right, we've got 60 minutes.
It's just the point is that language.
Yeah, compare that to I'm about to be there, suckers.
You know, exactly the gate in James, it says the gate, the doors are open
and he's about to walk in something like that, isn't it?
There's a phrase in James, I think.
And it's like it's so opposite to the end of Daniel seal it up because it's not for yet.
Yeah. How about some of that in the New Testament seal it up
because it's for the year 2000 and what 28, you know, but doesn't do that.
So the last hour and all of that.
So I so with the time text, I thought, yeah, that was it's like
I had this cognitive difference set in.
OK, so it definitely had to happen
according to the writers within their generation before they all died out.
And that's everything.
That's the second coming, the judgment, the lot.
We're now the only thing I had wiggle room on.
And so is J.
Stuart Russell was this millennial period.
So he said that, you know, what starts will be soon.
But there is this thousand years.
He seemed to take that quite straightforwardly as a literal thousand years.
And I thought, that's interesting.
So what happens at the end of that?
Well, in Revelation, something else happened.
So that's why I probably sprawl could sort of almost read him
because it still put it was it was almost like a post-millennial thing in a weird way.
Right. And I found other four praetorists did fantastic things with the millennium,
like make it 70 years between between the cross and.
Thousand doesn't mean thousand.
And I think you can thank our millennialists for that kind of
well, that's right, because they say God is the God of a cattle on a thousand hills.
Hills, all if there's a thousand and ten hills, is he the God of those cattle, too?
Well, yeah. So a thousand isn't literal.
It's just symbolic for a period of time.
And it could be 30 years.
It could be 40 years.
It could be 70 years. And it's like.
Yeah. If I was going to do that, though, I would have thought
a thousand years would have been used for such an unbelievable
big amount of time from a Jewish point of view, you know what I mean?
Because we talk in millions.
We say, not in a million years will I do this.
You don't mean in a million, but you're trying to make a point.
You don't say, let's fit a million years to next Friday, you know?
And so I found that they started to squeeze the millennium
into between the ascension and the destruction of Jerusalem.
And I thought, OK, this is getting ridiculous now.
But I was going there.
I was reading N.T. Wright, who was sort of partially like this, you know,
in the sense that the sheep and the goats in Matthew may be the beginning
of the judgment in some way from AD 70 through the church history.
And I thought, oh, gosh, this isn't working, you know?
And then so basically with that cognitive dissonance,
I found that the conclusions of J.
Stuart Russell in this book, The Perousia, didn't wash.
I mean, I had a particular moment where I thought I could look at the window,
metaphorically speaking, and see the world in the state it's in.
Is this the new heavens and the new earth?
Has the judgment in some way already happened to the small
and the great and to everybody and the rewards given?
And I'm thinking I can't see any of that.
Anyone, any non-Christian wouldn't even know what you're talking about.
I think you're insane to say, oh, we're in this wonderful new heavens
and the earth according to the Bible.
What have you just seen that looked on the news today?
So then I thought to myself, I suddenly sat down and it must have been
a moment where I went between some who are reading that book
and looking out the window sort of thing, thinking about the world.
I thought, oh, my gosh.
Oh, my gosh, it was like a moment.
Oh, no. Oh, it's maybe maybe it's they were wrong.
Oh, no. And then there was a flash, just a flash, but I wasn't there yet.
Maybe the whole thing is not true.
And it was like, I had to sit down and and I just like stare at the wall
with utter shock, certainly with the inspiration of the Bible.
Because what happened was is that the Bible then in these texts
of about the Second Coming was all solved.
Oh. Oh, right.
It was meant to happen in the first century.
That makes sense of all the texts. I don't have to twist it now.
Oh, no. But then Jesus was wrong.
And so do you see the point?
Another confidence distances, you know, there's a reward, you know,
better about when in like you then it gives you kind of a cultural,
historical context to actually maybe decipher what may be being said in the Bible.
So now you're like, I am getting closer to the truth.
And then when you get closer to the truth, this is the thing.
Like we all are all about the truth.
Christians are supposed to know the truth, the way the truth in the life.
And like we when we were investigating this and we found out this is closer
to the truth than when you get closer to the reality.
Yeah. That's when the truth hurts.
Because then you have to go.
He was wrong.
It he's wrong.
He he made some expectations.
He thought it was going to happen soon.
And you see this happening throughout the New Testament with their wrestling
with somebody made predictions and they haven't happened yet.
And they haven't been yet.
And all through history, by the way, I'd realized
that all through history, apart from the Gospels were like sacred
because that's the real deal.
But all through history, people had had predictions and not happened right up
to currently when flipping in America, obviously, where you are.
There's the Trump prophecies.
So many people heard from God that Trump was going to win.
And so many high profile ones, or at least a number of them,
still think he did win and that he's the true president right now,
because they didn't that they didn't they didn't they didn't apologize for getting it wrong.
And they just and this is what happens.
Human nature does this.
And then when I later studies, I realized the New Testament was doing the same thing.
It was adapting to it not happening.
And that's why we get conflicting, some conflicting texts,
particularly to Peter, they were struggling with an end of John.
You know, there's that little phrase, you know, they're struggling to say
that this one would stay alive until he come.
He said, what is my will?
And he didn't say it was his will.
He said, if it be my will that he remain, John 21 is a bomb.
I used to use it as a full preterist until it backfired on me one day.
And I realized, oh, my gosh, now that I know about cognitive dissonance,
I didn't even know what cognitive dissonance really was as a preterist.
Right. So what would you what do you what was the backfiring of that verse then?
Well, I think I was using it to say, like, I was reading that,
ignoring the context and saying he's saying one of his disciples was alive
when he came. That's how I was interpreting it.
Because I'm like, what the heck is going on?
We might as well pull it up, actually, because it's it's such a bombshell
of like a weird passage.
And now that we know that this is probably tacked on to John later.
But Jesus and his beloved disciple, do you love me?
Yes, Lord, I love you.
And then he goes on and on.
Peter then turned and saw following the disciple whom Jesus loved,
who had lain close to his breast at the supper and had said, Lord,
who is it that is going to betray you?
When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what about this man?
Jesus said to him, if it is my will that he remain until I come.
This is that parisia.
What is that to you?
Follow me.
The saying spread abroad among the brethren that this disciple was not to die.
Yet here they are.
They are literally rewarding Jesus.
They're correcting Jesus to make this work so they don't look wrong.
Yet Jesus did not say to him that he would not he was not to die.
But if it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you?
Anyway, so I didn't get the if part.
I just was thinking, look, he's saying one arms alive when Jesus comes back.
And this is evidence of full preterism in my mind.
I was totally missing the point of what he was trying to do.
And he was trying to save the Savior from a failed apocalyptic expectation.
Well, I think that funny enough, talking about the expectation,
I think that not for any of those people that listening,
that probably are quite familiar with preterism, has you've talked about it
and had, you know, quite a few times, probably through this through the show,
haven't you?
Oh, no, I've got so many little thoughts I'm going to.
I'm thinking of trying to pull them off or rack in my mind to which which to talk about.
But I think it's the realization for those that haven't aren't aware of it.
It's that it's surprising to me that, you know, I had so much trouble
with people twisting the soon and near texts that Brighton Center with sort of slate of hands.
But it is bizarre to think that I was almost at the point of believing
that the second coming was wrongly interpreted throughout the entire history
as a future expectation and actually happened in some way that revelation,
even the Great White Throne, even the Lake of Fire, even everything.
How could I think there was a point where I thought, you know,
I think I'd do far better just twisting those soon in near text,
making them a delay.
And. Yep.
Yep. And that is easier.
That is easier just to go.
There's no way to millennia of Christians got this wrong.
And yet full preterist, the reason we and I became one.
So this is where you and me, I think, stop our paths in terms of what we did.
Yeah, you may have flirted with it,
but like I went and swallowed the pill the best I could.
To full preterism. Yeah. Yeah, I went in.
I was actually giving lectures at a church in Michael Miano's,
the current pastor of a full preterist church and Blue Point Bible Church
in Long Island, New York.
And I went up there and gave two lectures.
One was my testimony and one was a lecture about why this was the end end.
Elijah, Moses, Jesus, right?
Mounted Transfiguration, the law and the prophets are summed up in him.
This is the end of the whole shebang.
But I reconciled there will be no more tears,
no more suffering and revelation to try and make it about the law and somehow
like, well, what it meant was the toils of the labor of the law and some insanity
that had nothing to do with what the text and the words even mean themselves.
Like it means death.
It means actual tears.
It's like you can make anything mean anything.
And that's what we did to save Jesus at the end of the day.
You're saving, I think if anyone watching this would say,
realize that this is a torturous process of saving the words of Jesus, isn't it?
It's saying, and that's why I felt it was like blinkers,
that I'd done everything I can with certain glasses on and didn't even
entertain on the table the idea that anything could be wrong.
So it's really it's all the avenues of how it can be right,
exactly, including and it just shows you the mental exercise that you are prepared
to say the great white throne judgment at the end of the age came
two thousand years ago, just to make those texts actually right.
And you're in the land of insanity, I felt you are.
Can I add one insane thing?
And then I want to get into what happened to you because we're getting close
to the end here in terms of wanting to take you in a super chapter questions.
Anybody or your comments, whatever you like, it helps the channel.
It keeps the algorithm paying attention to us and it keeps me doing what I'm doing here.
So yeah, that's my little shameless plug to try and get some stuff ready
because we're about to get to you.
This is the insanity of it for me.
OK, Andrew, Jesus came back in 70 AD.
I had to accept this generation.
Forty years is a generation and here's in 30s.
Jesus is still alive.
He says this generation.
What happens in the 70s?
The temple's destruction.
I had to come to the conclusion to save the savior from being a failure
or felling in his predictions about the end.
Yeah, I had to swallow that.
God's ultimate final judgment and ultimate
resurrection and salvation with the text.
You can't find it outside of this was he came
and screwed.
Let me put it another way.
He beat the shit out of his own people in the Jerusalem temple
to where Josephus describes it as they were cannibalizing themselves to stay alive.
This is God's people that his ancient scriptures prophesy.
We would go to that Deuteronomy passage that says, Israel, in your last days,
you will eat the flesh of your own children and stuff.
You see it through our prophets as well.
We thought this was talking about 70 AD.
We were finding ways to make everything save Jesus so that
what we did really is make Jesus actually destroy his own people in 70 AD.
Annihilate the nation that God supposedly chose from the very beginning
to use a select very minor group of people that are supposed to flee to the mountains,
depending on the version of full preterist, you hear, captured into space.
So in my mind, the whole pinnacle of human history was God came down
and ruined his own people by the hand of the Romans.
That was the new heaven and new earth ushering in.
That was the blessed glory and all that.
And it's like, you mean that's the amazing thing?
That's the true salvation and pinnacle of all of it.
What the Romans did to the Jews in the temple.
Wow, it was almost unconsciously anti-Jewish.
Yeah, anti-Semitic.
Yeah, it leaves it there at the destruction.
I think the other thing that what you just reminded me of is that I noticed
again, because I was aware and I have been aware of all the splits in the church,
like my channel is all about that, about the different diverse views.
I noticed straight away humans do what humans do and the preterist movement was split
because there were preterists who believed in a rapture in the first century
and others were said to call metaphorically.
Matter of fact, J.
Stewart Russell said he had a sort of a he didn't accept it necessarily,
but he said it's interesting how the Gospel of Mark suddenly ended.
Maybe he was taken up, you know, something like that to do anything.
And this literal rapture and I'm thinking, hang around,
there doesn't seem to be much of somebody would have said something
that a whole group of people disappeared.
And then so you've got the what I don't know what about the so the tribulation
then is after the rapture back then, I just starting to bubble with these splits.
And I heard preterist debate and actually run down other preterists.
There was a guy called Ed Stevens.
Yep, that's the guy that believes the rapture, by the way.
OK, he believed the rapture and somebody else was having to go at him
for having that view because it's embarrassing them.
Don Kay Preston.
Yeah, they have individual body view and corporate body view.
And it there's like a lost world.
If you ever go and investigate it, there is particularly the body in Paul,
the spiritual body, they then make something of that.
You see, this is not the physical thing that we think of.
It's this spiritual stuff.
And they and that's normally a critical argument that scholars use
about the Bible and Paul's view of the body or even the skeptical view.
But the preterists were using it for their advantage.
This spiritual body as opposed to the flesh, you see, and you know all about that.
So anyway, so in all of this diversity,
I just realized that I was in the land of insanity and what I'd gone down this.
I was forced down this channel through all the reason and academic and logic
and belief and it's all saving Jesus.
And then I then suddenly I had the oh, what if what if it.
So to make sense of the text, Jesus has to be wrong.
And then how do you live with that?
It's like, do you can't have that as a country?
Can't be wrong. Can't be wrong.
You know, oh, my gosh.
So you can see the dilemma I was in.
It was absolutely awful that, you know, to satisfy me on the Bible,
Jesus had to be wrong.
And that's where that was the nub of the beginning of my cracking
of the inspiration of the Bible and it was forced on me.
So if there's anyone watching this, they say, I bet you you haven't thought
about this, that and the other. Yeah, I had. I'd done it all.
I even texted you, I think, the other day about inspiring philosophies.
New video. Yeah, that's a better tack.
If you're going to do something, don't do this nonsense on making the text.
I don't know what he does on all of those verses, but the idea of delay
that, I mean, to me, 2000 is also a bit ridiculous.
I don't I could understand maybe a generation or two, but not 2,000 years.
And it's all hidden in the fact that conditional.
I mean, he can't be a Calvinist, can he?
No. And how could you possibly?
Is he that would contradict?
No, I don't think he is. No, I would think he's probably more orthodox in a way
because if God has ordained it to be delayed
till two to year 3000, say, he's done another video, by the way.
And I don't think he thinks he's coming back for thousands of years yet
because he thinks that Jesus couldn't come back now for another bunch of reasons
if you watch that one. So. But anyway, I haven't even watched either.
And I've got. Oh, right. OK.
I've got a guy coming this coming up week in Matthew Harky,
who's big on the apocalypse. Oh, he's been on our podcast.
Yeah. Matthew Harky. Yeah, he was on yours, but on ours.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We had a couple of engagements with him.
We had a special podcast with him, and then he was on as a guest, I think,
on another one, if I remember rightly.
But yeah, we had him on talking about the resurrection. Great guy.
And we've had a lot.
Our podcast, by the way, just to mention, it's called Douts Allowed.
We actually sort of every other one have a guest on.
And then every other one we do.
That's the YouTube channel. OK.
Yeah, yeah. But the Douts Allowed is the one that's on.
You can find it on Google and Apple podcasts.
That's the one there. Yeah.
So you can read some of the titles.
We've done one on preterism.
We've done one on open theism.
And I forgot to mention that the subject I know much about most about
is not preterism.
It's actually hell, doctrine of hell and the history of hell.
And I most of my research and my study had been on
the versions of different versions of understanding of hell
from the Old Testament through to the New Testament, through church history,
through 19th century, through to now.
I became a thorough, absolutely convinced annihilationist,
probably in my late 20s and
still feel that that, even though there are,
I became more sort of honest about some text that you might have to sort of push around.
I still feel that's the force of the Bible in its most sense
and that the traditional view is not.
But now a lot of people I know, even progressive Christians
are now becoming universalists and sort of jumping over
annihilationism from eternal torment to universalism.
They're all running to the happy old.
That's right. You've probably talked to some, you know.
And and again, that's another view that was back in church history anyway.
So it's not it's not exactly outside of the ideas of Christianity at all.
But but anyway, so that my main area of knowledge would be actually
if we were talking about hell as a subject, I could I could talk more than I can
on preterism, put it that way.
But I can talk a lot about that as well.
Can we put a bow, a ribbon on the top of icing on the cake, so to speak?
You you realize that that if the Bible is going to be right about what it's saying,
Jesus has to be wrong.
And that's why we titled it this this this episode.
So you've now ran into this wall and realized, what am I doing?
What did you do now that you realized this?
Did you de-convert what like what was that?
I I sort of went very liberal on the Bible.
So I went to where liberals go on the Bible,
which which means that you sort of move out of that conservative bracket
and you say, OK, it's not inerrant, it's not infallible.
I had problems anyway.
I had to realize I've got to I've got to have a Bible view
that accounts for insertions, things taken away, fiddling about with the text in history.
I've got to have a view of that.
But I came to see in other views as well at this time,
I was learning a lot about the Joshua and the genocidal stuff
and the the all the evangelical responses weren't holding for me either.
And I realized and I mentioned this earlier on this podcast,
isn't that this this conflict between some parts of Jesus and the Old Testament?
So I was beginning to see the Bible as perhaps evolving, perhaps,
you know, the documentary hypothesis was was probably definitely,
well, pretty definitely the way to go.
To keep in with current academic studies by Christians, even,
would take you away from conservative or at least it pushes you that way.
Michael Heiser being sort of an exception, being a very scholarly person.
He just died recently.
It was pretty amazing to think he's a proper scholar,
but obviously keeping everything is possible back into conservatism.
But other people don't have that boundary.
And I felt that that was my way of looking at the Bible.
So I could I could almost get to the point and Tom Stark wrote a book
as an author called Tom Stark wrote a book called The Human Faces of God.
And he is a Christian who accepts that Jesus was wrong
and that the New Testament writers were wrong.
It didn't happen.
And he says it's about time we kind of accepted that.
And it's the first Christian I'd ever, ever heard
who who wasn't a full paratist by any stretch of the imagination,
but accepted that Jesus thought it was going to happen in the first century.
And he was a Christian and I thought, wow, yeah, that's amazing.
That's like becoming like Peter ends, who doesn't believe in Adam and Eve as a Christian.
When I first heard that, I went, wow, I've never heard a Christian actually say it, say it.
Adam and Eve didn't exist.
Wow, they were shocks for me.
And that was only three or four for years ago for Peter ends, no, 10, probably.
So I was going that way.
Yeah. And then I thought to myself, hmm, the problem is that preterist moment
unraveled a domino effect, you know.
And so I felt that if I started to then say, because I always thought
I could be a counter-apologist because I was so conflicted by all the differences.
I thought even back 20 years ago, I thought, you know, if I wasn't a Christian,
I could come for you.
You know what I mean?
In a big way, I could use everything that I've struggled with and say,
what about this? What about this?
Because I had the questions that weren't being answered.
So I'll throw them to you, you know.
So if I if I wasn't a Christian, I thought, you know, I could actually be a good
counter-apologist because, like, who's that guy that wrote Great
the God Delusion, not the God Delusion, the Christian delusion.
I don't know.
He went to he went to college with William Lane Craig.
He sat under him as a student.
And he's wrote Laftis, Laftis, Laftis, yeah, like that.
Now, he became a counter-apologist because he was an apologist,
you know, and in the sort of Bible, he went to Bible school, didn't he?
Studied quite intensely.
And I felt myself a bit like that.
If I did go that way, I would.
And I kind of have done a podcast out the loud.
He's a little bit like that, but because we're British, we're extremely nice
and extremely diplomatic and very kind people.
And so we don't and a lot of Americans say that of British people, you know,
because I was so polite and kind to so we could be totally debating.
But it sounds like a friendly chat in the Saturday afternoon, you know.
So I'm sort of a nice counter-apologist, you know, I feel that the way I present myself.
I mean, I'm no different in debating anything like I am right now with you.
Just talking just exactly the same.
So I then sort of went the liberal way.
I suppose in about 2009, I was struggling to really say, you know, what?
Do I really believe any of it anymore?
You know,
you know, I have I have doubts about everything.
I don't know whether, you know,
how do I know what even form of Christianity could be true?
What what gamble would I have?
Shall I take my chances with Catholics,
Eastern Orthodox, Calvinists, reformers, you know, Armenians, open theists?
I was an open theist, by the way, for a good portion of my life.
But but we weren't called heretics by the people.
So maybe I wasn't saved anyway, you know, from their point of view.
So many people would say I was never a Christian from their theology,
you know, and so what do I know anyway?
So I just thought I thought of so got so agnostic about it all.
I finally, I think in about 2009, had to sort of say
it's like if I was to make a metaphor of it, it was like saying,
I can't say it, you know, I'm not a Christian anymore.
It's like it's like if I tried to, I'd go I was scared of that, too.
Yeah. Did you feel like that?
Yeah, I can't say it.
Yeah, this is so instilled in you.
And there's a fear of even saying that that that came to mind.
Even today, I have to like go, you know what you're saying, right?
Like, like, I know what you're talking about.
And it's still something in my head.
It's like, you were so insane in that worldview that like,
I mean, I'll use the word insane.
I don't mean that in like the diagnosis term, but like we're lost in this bubble.
And it's all we knew and obsessed over this detail for so long
that it's hard to get out of it.
But like this is something I'm glad you brought up here at the end of the whole thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do I believe in any of this anymore?
The liberal progressive Christian who might hear this and go,
I'm glad I don't believe anything like that.
I'm not lost in that world.
Yeah. Maybe they do say, geez, this is wrong or was wrong about that.
Yeah, wrong or whatever.
The sincere question I get from the Christians who think I went too far.
They think you went too far.
That's why you literally be converted all the way.
If you were not in this bad version of Christianity,
you would have never come to the conclusions and exited the the the boat.
Let's use Christianity as the boat.
No, no, the boat was sinking.
And what you realize, once you know the honesty of the situation,
the sincere question I would have is,
why are you, why are you like this liberal Christian who agrees with the
creeds are claimed to be a Christian who's somehow Orthodox or something?
Do you believe he really rose from the dead?
He got all the stuff wrong and you're going to tell me he rose from the dead.
You believe that he's coming back one day.
Like where where are you at?
You don't believe in any of that anymore.
What's the point anymore in believing in this?
Because now if he can't get the prophecies right,
we used to go to Deuteronomy and say that a prophet who claims and predicts
that something would come to pass, but doesn't as a false prophet,
like Jesus was a prophet.
And in a way, he gets this wrong, false prophet.
Why would we believe him?
And like it's it's like they go, why are you?
Why are you throwing the baby out with the bathwater?
We should still believe him. Yeah, he got that wrong.
OK, OK, he may not have actually said, OK, there's massive contradictions.
OK, we don't know who wrote these books.
Oh, OK, Paul probably got some mistake.
Oh, OK, Paul was wrong.
OK, Revelation of the Century.
Oh, OK, so it didn't happen to Rome.
I mean, like, when do you finally go?
Enough is enough.
Yeah, I totally agree.
And it's more than that, isn't it?
It's that this this particular issue led me to be aware of so much else,
like the authorship of the of the letters and, you know, even even listening
to Robin Faith Walsh, you know, if she's onto something,
then that changes a whole other thing about how far do we have any eyewitnesses
you know, at what are the possibilities there?
If if it's honest research with honest discoveries,
you any Christian would say you should follow the truth where it goes.
But actually, in reality, they don't.
They don't follow the truth where it goes because this is an example.
Well, and if you do, this is what happens.
You started off following the truth of the text, as I did.
We weren't saying, oh, let's see if we can find a way to to make the Bible wrong.
We were trying to make the Bible right.
Yes, you know, and we tried every right
avenue and then the best understanding is actually when it's wrong.
And that's the most complete.
This is the essence of today's broadcast, isn't it?
It's like for Jesus to be, you know, sorry, for the Bible text
to be right in their context and meaning Jesus had to be wrong
or the authors had to be wrong of those right then.
That's the question, right?
So let's pretend Jesus didn't say any of that.
Yeah, that's right. Yes.
What are we reading?
If Jesus didn't say this, but they're saying Jesus said this,
the followers, one of the followers or writers or whatever
who heard the story was probably so apocalyptic in their mind
that they put it in his mouth. What does that mean?
That you just can't get back to what Jesus said.
Yeah, like what do we trust at this point?
Like why believe this religion based off of the literature that's here?
Oh, we go with the church and the men who run the church.
And you have all those problems, you say, Derek, but we go with the
the Christians who run the church and the Orthodox and the Catholic.
And it's like, so you're going to trust men over here.
We have great historical reasons to question the things
that have come throughout history.
Really, come on, no matter how you, no matter where you go,
you got a problem with this.
And that's why it all falls apart.
It does. It does.
And I mean, so this is just a seed to others.
And there will be people watching, maybe Christian people,
maybe fundamentalist watching say, oh, you'll be better off sticking
to the twisting the soon and near texts, you know,
or going the delay option, excessive delay rather than where we went.
But I think we just went an honest route.
I think honesty brought us to at least it brought the seeds to the end.
And if somebody say, what's wrong, what can be wrong?
You know, it's either was you woke up and it's all wrong.
And there's one form of Christianity is right and you're at the judgment.
They look at you and say, you know, you were desperately trying to make me right.
You know, you did you did everything right.
Look, look how much you look at you were prepared to think it all happened
in 80 70 for me.
Well done, good and faithful servants.
You know, I think you're the rain.
It's like you were prepared to go that far to what I would think is insanity.
But you're doing it for the reason of saving Jesus.
Look what I was trying to do.
I was trying to do. Well, it wasn't like I call it that,
but I wasn't trying to save.
Yes, that's really what I was trying to do.
But I was I was thinking like I was accurately
accurately saying what he meant.
Right. Because he said soon.
And so the logic is here is this man, God in the flesh, the divine one.
Even if you don't think he's got in the flesh, he is the image
and the bearer of God's name on earth, right?
Whatever position you take.
Yeah, he cannot lie.
He cannot be wrong on these things.
Yeah. Yeah.
And they'll go, well, he said it himself.
Not even the Son of Man knows the day or hour.
Here we are again with the day and hour thing.
Yeah, as if he isn't giving you signs for the season, which is soon.
It's anyway, that's a whole different thing that I can bring up
the opposition's views and just rip them apart because it's not.
They're not strong arguments at all.
The point is he gets this big of a thing wrong.
And, you know, I was trying to save him because it was either he's right
and he did come back in 70 AD or soon and around that time.
And it happened, but we didn't know how it happened.
So it had to happen in some way, but we just aren't sure.
And that's why full predators can't even agree amongst themselves about that.
Or he's wrong.
And the last thing as a Christian that I could accept was Jesus was wrong.
What was Christianity anymore?
Yeah, because if Jesus was wrong, what am I who am I following?
It made no sense to me, particularly when a lot of apologists say,
you know, what's one of the reasons you're a Christian?
Oh, because of the fulfilled prophecies in the Bible.
You hear that a lot, don't you?
And they go back to Old Testament stuff,
which doesn't have anything to almost do with it half the time.
And when it doesn't.
And then suddenly you think the biggest one staring in your face
looks like a failed prophecy.
So that's and yet the apologists might say,
this is why I believe because of fulfilled prophecy.
Well, here we've got the biggest one now, not fulfilled.
What are you going to do with that?
And that's what, of course, they'll do that.
They'll do what we did, try and find the right way.
Except there's one place you don't go wrong.
You know, wrong.
And so that that's why it's if anyone hasn't who's watching this,
hasn't got there yet, as a Christian,
it's because you've probably satisfied with one of the right ways,
you know, so called.
But yeah, so I tell you what, though, I wonder if we have the same view on the,
you know, a lot of people do come in and say straight away.
But Jesus, they didn't know the day on the hour.
So what are you talking about, Andrew?
But you see the Mike, I don't know, we might not have the same view on this,
but my view on this is that, in fact, it's not like Jesus said,
this generation shall not pass away.
And then I don't know what this generation is.
That would be a huge contradiction.
He was saying, you know, this generation, in other words, you know,
in in the time of this generation, some of you say, again,
I'm going to come back and it's going to happen.
But you don't know the day on the hour.
So keep watch, you know, it's within the timeframe of a generation.
So to me, that's the way I see it.
I mean, I have no problem with seeing it that way.
Yeah. Or to be even more explicit.
Yeah. He literally is trying to say, like, the exact day and hour.
I'm not sure when it's going to happen, but it's going to happen.
And yeah, it's going to happen in a generation.
Yeah, he's all of the signs are here.
And when you see the temple falling, the Romans, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So keep watch, keep watch, because that's evidence,
flee to the mountains, yeah, it's going to happen soon.
The Lord is going to come back and he's going to kick their ass, not just the Jews,
but all the people that were collaborating with being in the temple,
the people who had the money changing, all of that, right?
So these are people that are being condemned,
but he's also going to kick the ass of the Romans.
And that was what I was expecting.
Full Preterist literally kind of just go with Josephus.
Oh, you know, Rome was actually just being used by God.
These are good guys.
And like the Jews were the only people who get punished.
And it's like, whoa, it doesn't turn round on the Romans right there.
And then I mean, Rome eventually went.
Some, some, some people look at that as a response, like when Rome finally went.
But that's that's stretching it way beyond the soon and near as well.
Yeah, isn't it? It's like, so you might as well go.
I mean, that's not 400 years or three or whatever it was.
I don't remember. Yeah, more than 400, 500.
Yeah, that's right.
So I mean, have you heard people say that, you know, so it did.
It's like a lag.
The effects eventually affected Rome.
Without a doubt.
Yeah, Andrew, I've got a bunch of super chats I want to get to with you.
But I loved this because you're the first guest who gave kind of their
deconversion story, who had the most identical one to me.
And we have so much in common in terms of our theological pursuits and stuff.
And then our conclusions, it's really, really interesting.
I really appreciate you being here way back at the top of the chat.
Super chat, your questions will try and get them in.
And I really appreciate all the support.
Constellation Pegasus, why didn't you become a Jehovah's witness
when being a Christian ever look into them, especially when you were walking out the door?
Do you know that's never been asked a question like that before,
except I do remember talking to a Muslim once.
We have a famous place in London called Speakers Corner.
Oh, yeah, well known for at the years ago, it used to be
anybody could talk about anything.
So you'd be politics, religion, or it could be this nowadays.
It's literally a warfare place just verbally between Muslims and Christians.
Pretty much 90.
Sometimes it gets physical, by the way.
Well, probably does.
I mean, I've been probably four or five times.
I went once and told a bunch of Muslims about my deconversion.
And more and more came round me and surrounded me.
And they just thought that why wouldn't I just step into Islam?
And I'm thinking, do you know what, I'd probably have all the same problems
with the Quran and I've read bits of it and I know a bit about Islam.
But I'd probably have the same struggles.
Probably the way I've heard about the origins of the Quran.
I think I'd have more problems with that than actually the origins
of the Bible in some ways.
But the funny thing was is that they thought, oh, yeah, finally,
you've seen the light about Christianity now come over to the truth.
And they're starting with the same kind of thing that Christians
are thinking about Jews who didn't become Christians or Muslims
who aren't becoming Christian.
They start with their right.
Just read our book.
You can't reproduce it and look, millions of people memorize it and sing it.
That's there.
That's enough for them.
Yeah, I'll have to get into the whole discussion and debate about
Isha being seven or nine or 16.
And I thought, I don't want to get into, you know, but I didn't.
That's just even in the side.
I thought one of the biggest things I learned about this was that the danger.
I think it's really dangerous to have a holy book that you see as a revelation
because as wonderful as you might see some aspects of that is,
it actually can cause a lot of damage because when people have
an authority above ourselves, that can be used to be to to to actually
abuse people, you know, even in the sense of just little abuses.
But but also big ones.
Warfares in the in the world have been because God says, you know,
homophobia probably comes a lot because of a book, you know, through history.
People have been, you know, ostracized, cast out and stuff.
All because the book says now, if that book was humanly written, that's awful.
You know, the question is, is is there enough reason to think it wasn't?
I think there is enough reason to think it's human that it's human written.
And therefore you can then say, thank goodness for that,
because all those abuses from those past in history are not needed, you know.
And I do sense a lot of abuse comes from religious texts,
ultimately, even if it's just psychological in times,
oppression of women, the way leadership in the home with men has caused
observational situations, problems, you know.
So yeah, so in answer to this question, which I was witness,
it would have never have occurred to me
because it's the same camp of a revelation of God.
One particular understanding, relatively recent
in church history, kinds of understanding in many ways.
Although I was very impressed to think that
Jehovah's Witnesses were one of the groups that
brought to the fore the annihilationist view of hell
because it didn't come from them.
There were there were people in mainstream denominations
way before them that held that view and in church history, in my view,
right the way back at various periods.
But the Jehovah's Witnesses were bold enough to say,
we're going with this Seventh-day Adventist as well, you know.
So I do appreciate some of those movements to say that they do stand up
and say we believe the Bible says this.
And I think Robert M. Price says that they have the best understanding
Jehovah's Witnesses of, in fact, John one one in the beginning was the word
and the word was God.
He goes with their view, which is interesting.
So I just appreciate I've had XJW say that it was him
that caused them to actually feel comfortable enough
because he said, good guys, good job.
Yeah, that's right.
And then the following few sentences was like, what?
My beliefs are bullshit.
You know, and then that's right.
That's right.
He was saying about a particular way of interpreting a particular Greek.
He was saying that's really good.
They've got they've got something there.
And I think the same as well.
A lot of those movements.
I think that the early church was generally speaking pre-millennial
right at the beginning with Justin Martyr and these other people.
And people like Jehovah's Witnesses have revived the millennium
way before or at the time when other denominations were starting to come back in.
Because it was largely a millennial for much of church history.
Yeah. And then suddenly there was this revival,
Jehovah's Witnesses being one of the groups that came out of that.
Revival of that.
I don't mean that I mean, a revival of the view.
Right. I get along with Seventh-day Adventists and a few others,
Christo Delphians, that these sort of Bible sects
tended to be pre-millennial with the Anabaptists and other people back in the day.
And it's like, oh, so they're challenging the standard reformed
view of church history with Bible texts.
And I thought, OK, I think with Robert and Price, I'd say they're doing.
I think they're doing a good thing in interpretation.
It doesn't mean the whole religious trend.
Right. I get it.
They're they're trying to be more accurate.
They're more accurate.
And I think that's good for them.
It's a bad conclusion here, but Mormons with their polygamist origins,
especially Joseph Smith, having this guy was definitely just a horn dog.
But he found a way to make excuses for his sexual
drive is the Old Testament polygamy.
Yeah, he found the polygamy and was like, we're going to be biblical here.
Yeah, yeah. Enough, you know, he went biblical.
So I don't think it's always a good conclusion, right?
To be biblical, exactly.
Yeah, maybe the best understanding, but yeah.
Thank you for that, Super Chat Apollo.
I just wanted to press on here and get to the next one.
I know we got some more here before we wrap wrap you think you're in the you're
in the UK, so I know it's pretty late over there.
Right. It's it's 11 o'clock, just gone.
OK, 11 p.m. Sorry. Yeah.
Theresa, thank you so much.
People assume everyone believes.
What do you say?
And I don't understand the question.
I think it's the idea that, like, you know, Christian, I am reading into this.
So I could be wrong.
But it's that, you know, you believe you believe in God,
you know, there's a God or something like that.
Everyone, like even the people who say they don't believe.
Right. They're saying, oh, no, you do.
It's kind of the presuppositionalist.
Presuppositionalist.
Everyone knows that God exists.
Duh, you're just saying you don't.
But we know that's not true.
That kind of thing.
Right. It's interesting.
Actually, funny enough, you used to say that the funny thing is
about the precept when they say it's a common thing, isn't it?
Could you be wrong about everything you know?
Have you ever heard they say that?
I have.
And then the answer to that is that wouldn't that include then
that I don't know that God exists?
You know, because they they say that you could be they want to get you.
They say, do you think you could be wrong about everything you know?
And you finally say, yeah, I could be.
OK, then. Well, you've got nothing to say.
Except they're telling you, you do know there's God.
So it's like that's a bit of a problem.
But anyway, I think that this person, Teresa, was was asking,
people assume everyone believes.
Is that is that meaning?
I mean, I don't assume everyone believes it believes in Christianity, presumably.
I don't know. So yeah.
So I don't really know.
It's an interesting question.
That's like some Bible verses, to be honest.
It's how to interpret it.
Yeah, exactly.
The laughing philosopher 2000 years is soon to God is such nonsense.
God is speaking to humans.
I wouldn't say we're moving how soon or we're move how soon to my three year
olds, if I mean, in two years. Great point.
Yeah, exactly.
And then it has to come this idea exactly right, really, when you think about it,
that if the disciples in the narrative are asking, when will these things be?
It becomes pointless communication to start talking.
If God has a different sense of time to talk.
How do you communicate to human beings?
You know what I mean?
Well, I would say in the same way as Daniel did, as you pointed out,
seal it up because it's not it's far off.
You know, this is not yet your time.
God is capable. What does that mean?
You could turn that around, couldn't you?
You could say, oh, Daniel meant that could happen in a couple of weeks.
Do you see what I mean?
You could you could you could take Daniel's thing and twist it like they do
the soon, but reverse it.
So seal it up until the end of time.
Oh, that's next week, then, because it's God's, you know what I mean?
So communication would have to mean something.
It would have to hit humans somewhere in an understandable sense.
So I think this person who gave that question is exactly right.
It is nonsense to think like that.
I agree. I agree.
This is also in the vein.
DJ Wilkins, the observation that Christians save Jesus through their
belief in Second Peter three eight logic is a marvelous irony.
So I'm having a hard time knowing if DJ is on our side or if he's.
Yeah. So is he pointing out you mean to Peter three,
meaning the one where it is talking in front enough parallels the last
question that to Peter is saying this is the the the the document that's saying
when is this coming at the day of the day of the 1000 years?
Yeah, I'll read just before that because I think it's important.
It says, remember the predictions of the Holy prophets and the commandment
of the Lord and Savior through your apostles.
First of all, you must understand this,
that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing,
following their own passions and saying, where is the promise of his coming?
For ever since the fathers fell asleep,
all things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.
They deliberately ignore this fact that by the word of God,
heavens existed long ago in the earth, formed out of water and by means of water
through which the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished.
But by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist have been stored up
for fire being kept unto the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.
But do not ignore this one fact, beloved,
that with the Lord one day is as 1000 years and 1000 years as one day.
The Lord is not slow about his promise as some count slowness,
but is forbearing toward you, not wishing that any should perish,
but that all should reach repentance.
So this is that conditional thing in a way where he's trying to say like,
because at this point, it hasn't happened yet.
And you see clearly, it's like he's hoping more people get saved
and they get they repent for that fire, right?
The second day, the second end is going to be with fire instead of the world flood.
But it's interesting that a day is like 1000 years.
In the context of this, we don't know God's time.
That's the purpose of this passage to go.
It's coming, stay tuned, be on watch, be ready.
But we don't know exactly when because God's time is different than ours.
But he does want to save more people and keep on working the gospel,
keep getting out there doing.
But I just think that's interesting that they're still asking the people
who are scoffing are doing exactly kind of what we're doing.
Where is the promise of his coming?
You guys said that he's coming.
Well, the full progress that I've read.
Don K. Preston has a book back here where he interprets the fire
as the melting of the Jerusalem's inner Holy Holies and that it was the fire
melting of the temple that was the destruction of that heaven and earth
because they found a way to interpret heaven and earth as the temple.
And you name it, man.
So the temple melted, which was the heaven and the earth with fire and all that stuff.
This is the insanity in the end.
You'll go anywhere because in one sense, the ruling paradigm there
is these time texts, isn't it?
And then what do we do then with the conclusion?
And there's one of the answers.
I think the thing about this two Peter one that the person, the questioner asked
is that there's a lot of questions there like to be able to speak like that
means the book must be pretty distant from the original apostles.
But of course, it's meant to be written by Peter, who was, you know, one of them.
And so that seems to imply that your apostles, hang on,
I thought Peter was one of them is a big question.
So it seems to be late enough to know that they're waiting.
So it means that scoffers, well, whether in fact two Peter was implying,
because when I used to read it, I was implying that that means scoffers come
in the 20th century, you know, whereas, but actually there's no reason
why it wouldn't be an AD 120 or 150 to say, where is this second coming?
Because look, they've all died and your apostles back then have all died
and everything has gone on just the same.
That's the way I read it.
And it's like, so it's pretty much delayed when Peter was written, right?
You know what I mean?
So that means that they were thinking, OK, so here's your rationale now.
And that would be perfect reason for someone to think like we do,
like Don Preston did.
Well, maybe the fire is Jerusalem.
You know, maybe this writer is going into Peter who isn't Peter is saying,
well, OK, maybe God's time is slightly different.
So that's another way just to hold on for a bit.
That's the way I see it.
I like how you said your apostles.
Like, yeah, Peter, aren't you?
It's a great one, isn't it?
Your apostles.
Oh, hang around.
Yeah, I mean, you mean my friends.
You mean what I told you?
That's right.
Yeah.
Why did you say that?
Yeah, because he said I was on a mountain.
That's in two Peter, wasn't it?
Was that one Peter?
It could be one Peter.
Well, one Peter, but he said I there.
And I don't think that's Peter either.
But but nevertheless, he just said your apostles.
It's a strange thing to come from one of the top three, you know.
Exactly.
Yep.
I also think just an interesting note is Eusebius.
And I can't remember who the other church father is.
But I think it was Eusebius who doubted that Peter wrote this this epistle.
So second Peter, he did not think Peter wrote.
And it may have been other church fathers.
I cannot remember.
There's a book I have called Broken Promises by Mark Smith,
who's going to be debating next week on this channel against Don K. Preston,
the leading I would call him the leading full preterist in the full preterist community.
Next Wednesday, he's debating Don Preston and Don Preston him on full preterism.
And so he is going to come at things that he thinks full preterism cannot account for in
the New Testament.
And that's his approach because if you start wrestling with them,
like there's nothing to debate on time statements.
Like we're 100% agreed.
I think just about 100% with full preterist on when things were supposed to happen.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It is.
Did they happen?
I will not.
And there's some problems with that.
But I'm not going to leak anything in case.
Yeah.
The print, I'm beginning to think this because I know that if preterism for us two is sort
of led down out, do you think there might be a whole group of people that have become lost
to faith through full preterism?
Yes.
Because I can imagine it can happen.
But here's the problem with full preterism.
And this is my honest, honest, honest thoughts.
Once you become a full preterist, the kind of work that goes into this and you're studying
of the Bible, the people who've deconverted now, and I see them comment all the time,
when I do a video showing that revelations mainly focused on the Roman.
Yeah.
The Romans, right?
Yeah, not.
Rome is the ultimate enemy.
Of course, Satan is the one controlling Rome.
They get so triggered and butthurt.
No, that's Jerusalem.
No, no, no, that's Israel.
And it's like, yo, no, it's not Israel.
Maybe Revelation 11 where it talks about where our Lord was crucified.
Yes.
How does the city in which our Lord was crucified?
And it's called Sodom.
It's called Sodom.
It's not called Babylon.
Babylon was a real country that destroyed the first temple over here.
And the second Babylon that is being referred to in Revelation is the one that destroys the
temple again.
And so we know Rome destroyed the Jerusalem temple.
Although NT Wright argues for Babylon.
I know.
And he's absurd with that.
They love him, don't they?
The preterists.
They love him.
Kenneth Gentry does the same.
Oh, he does it.
I've read it.
The great city.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Preterists die on that hill.
And I'm like, hold on, you deconverted and you still think full preterism is true?
And that all of this stuff is true?
You have not actually examined your own positions after exiting the faith.
Because full preterism has to redefine a plethora of things in order to save.
Because while you are getting the definition of time statements correct,
you are now having to bend the meaning of so much stuff.
The city on the seven hills is Rome.
That is so obvious.
Everyone who reads this in Revelation 17 would have known this is Rome.
Nero is the 660 and 6.
Like, why is Nero, but you're going to talk about Jerusalem?
So there's so many issues, man.
I noticed that they can't get the full preterism out once they've deconverted.
It's like poisons their thinking on how they have to understand the New Testament.
And also the dating of it.
Because, I mean, there's a view that it's partly late 60s and partly 90s and it's been joined.
And there's a view, traditional view, is that it's later.
Right.
But preterists surely have to have it written before,
as the prophecy that soon is going to be.
If you can actually demonstrate, but I almost just done a book on it.
I'm in the middle of listening to it right now.
I think he mentioned, I don't think he mentioned there,
but I've heard him mention, because I met him and I've heard him mention that
there is a view of early strata of it and later strata of it now.
Yeah, it's a Roman text.
There are good points about an early date, but there's some brilliant ones about a late.
So maybe, a bit like Daniel, they're doing that with Daniel now.
Daniel used to be, it's either 6th century, like the conservative or it's 2nd century.
Actually, no, it might be some things going on in the 4th joined to the 2nd, you know.
And when the redacted puts together a revelation similar.
But either way, if any of it's written afterwards, you've got a problem,
because it's written from a perspective that presumably soon would be something's happening
soon after all of what you thought was the end.
So dating is a, almost a smoking, dating is a smoking gun issue.
Because surely everything has to be written before 8070 or not.
That's the full Preter's position.
Yeah, yeah.
Everything, 2nd Peter, like everything needs to be there.
And all that evidence is shunted, all that historical scholarly, it's just shunted aside.
Yep.
Like, and it doesn't take them anything to just, that's the thing.
Because remember, remember, when you become a full Preterist,
the whole church was wrong all along anyway.
So who else is wrong?
Everyone's wrong but me, you know what I mean?
That's, it's a cult.
It's a cult.
It's a cult basically.
Just like everything else might be a cult, the church itself is a massive cult.
But this is cultish behavior in one view.
By the way, there's a similar thing with open, I've been to open theist conferences,
and they get a bit like that.
And you know, that most of the world is wrong of Christianity,
reformers, Calvinists are of the devil.
Matter of fact, some open theists just say there's a spirit of Calvinism, the evil spirit.
Especially charismatic ones, right?
Yeah. So you can have, I've been to a place, I've been to a place where I know somebody
who talked about a meeting where they were casting out a spirit of Calvinism.
So that's, what do you do in a world where Calvinists think they're just being honest
with the text of the Bible, you know?
Best they can.
Yeah. Everybody's trying.
Everybody's trying.
But that's the problem.
There's so many problems with this thing.
Max Hendricks, thank you for being a member and your super chat, Max.
Perhaps the end, so to speak, when viewed from reverse was the end of a globalized economy,
trade, et cetera, by the descendants of the surviving population ascending to the post-apocalyptic world.
I mean, if we can do that with this text, then anything goes.
This is the point of like, why I want to know, looking at all of the different literature
in Second Temple Judaism, let me take this down so that you can see my face here.
If you, this is something I told the full Preterist too, since leaving, oftentimes when
I have the little scuffles in the discussions with them, is like, you think it all happened.
But if you just read how Jews used this language all across the board, like, they don't always
have the same view of the end, of course.
There's different ideas about the end, but within the eschatology or apocalypticism
of Jewish thinking.
But the way words were used, you just don't come into this and get this special biblical
pocket and bubble protected of the meaning of these words.
And oh, yeah, but who cares what the other texts say?
Because they're still fundamentalists.
They're still, you got the Bible within the Bible.
You can't go outside to interpret it.
Oh, but we can go to Josephus when Josephus does talk about the temple's destruction.
We can use that for our full Preterism.
That's that he saw armies in the clouds.
Remember what Jesus said, some of you standing here will not taste death until you see
what was in the clouds, Josephus.
And then like, this is their interpretive model to make it.
So it's, I mean, it's just crazy, isn't it?
I mean, there's so many things that can actually be said about this in many ways.
So it's just like, oh, just gets my, I mean, like your brain must be buzzing like mine with
all kinds of things that have happened in this area of discussion.
But yeah.
So what was that?
So, yeah, I didn't really quite understand that last question, but all that.
I think it was, I'm going to pull it back up.
But I think it's like, I get a lot of comments about stuff like this, where perhaps the end,
so to speak, when viewed from reverse was the end of a globalized economy, trade,
etc., by the descendants of the surviving population ascending to the post-apocalyptic world.
The way I understand this is the, is the idea that these particular Christians,
their descendants are supposed to ascend beyond this, this globalized economy.
And we know Revelation has a problem.
The book of Revelation author has a problem with Rome and the economy of Rome.
And don't be excused by her.
You won't be able to sell and trade with the mark.
Like there's all sorts of stuff that they don't want you to participate in.
But it didn't, it didn't stop.
So like what they thought was supposed to happen, where the whore of Babylon,
Rome was supposed to be destroyed, didn't happen.
I mean, like, so it's, we, I think the reason we want to find ways to make it
work is because we don't want it to be wrong.
We're back to that again.
It's wrong.
And so that's, everyone is desperately wanting to be right.
Whatever conclusion you come to.
So, and then just cause, it's causes, in its own sense, a sort of a spiritual warfare
between all kinds of people, because we're all fighting for the right to be right.
That's true.
But in any view, and then anything goes.
And the whole spectrum of liberal to fundamentalist, it doesn't matter.
They're all standing up to be right.
If you watch all these Christian debates or debates, it's even within Christian debates.
And my channel particularly shows this, that the clip we started with, by the way,
those two people couldn't be more sure of their conviction of what
Holy Spirit was teaching them about the Word of God, and what the Word of God actually says.
Completely opposed.
You couldn't have both of them actually be true at the same time and work.
So, what's going on?
And this is the same thing here, same thing with everything.
And this is really the essence of this conversation, really, isn't it?
It's, we were just trying to be right.
That's all.
Just guilty of being wanting to be right.
Not wanting to destroy the text, not wanting to destroy
anything, really, in aim, was it?
How far you went, and you went the whole gamut to accept,
for how long was it that you accepted the whole world was in a new heavens and new earth state?
I was probably a full premise for like three or four years.
Wow.
Yeah.
So, what did you make of like warfare and disease and disease?
Um, so we reinterpreted it, we reinterpreted it to mean,
so when it talks about there would be no more, like no more night, right?
It would only be day in Revelation.
All of this as some symbolic thing about the law.
That the city of Jerusalem was a spiritual thing.
Everything became spiritualized and the meaning of words, no more tears, no more death,
no more suffering, resurrection.
The resurrection was spiritual, but we would try to make an exception and say,
but Jesus really rose, but that was all a sign.
Him rising was a sign, the sign of Jonah, to kind of let us know that he has the power of
the spiritual realm.
It's kind of gnosticky, but not in a way.
Yeah, but it is a bit gnosticky.
Did some go to the idea that Jesus was raised in the same sense that John Dominic Crossen
would say, or some sort of liberal person?
I don't think they went that far because he has kind of an allegorical risen type of position.
It's not rose from the dead.
We would accept he rose from the dead, but we would say when he ascended in Acts 1,
to be on high and seated in the heavens, that he cast off his body.
And this is no, no with Orthodox, because we got a lot of your heretic because you deny the
creeds, because we expect a physical bodily resurrection in the future.
And they would, the hypostatic union of Jesus always being 100% man and 100% God, which is
later ideas.
We would say, look, Paul says that flesh and blood will not inherit the kingdom of God.
That means flesh and blood does not inherit the kingdom of God.
And Jesus is going up to be in his kingdom, which will eventually come down to earth.
Well, we found weird ways to gymnastics our way through all of it.
And we would, he'd cast off the body and go up into be in the heaven, like Paul said.
But then you get these weird things in the gospels where he's still in his flesh and,
you know, don't touch me.
I haven't gone up the glory yet.
And weird stuff.
So not everything was solved.
But I'm sure we had an answer for everything at the time.
And it's like that with any systematic position.
That's right.
Exactly.
I was just thinking of, say, the Calvinistic extremes, because they are starting off in
certain premises and they follow the rabbit trail that it creates itself to make it consistent.
Because it's trying to understand these theologies with a consistency.
And then for you get double predestination, you get two versions of God's permissive will and his
I denied that as a Calvinist.
When I was a Calvinist, I said his prescriptive will is not what he really wants.
His prescriptive will was just simply kind of a textbook of saying, Hey,
these are the things that are to know what right and wrong is.
These are the things that human, your human moral code.
But it wasn't what God ultimately wanted.
I did not.
I thought that the idea of God having two wills with schizophrenic or two personality
disorder type thing, it was like, what?
No, God's not like wants and doesn't want at the same time.
Everything that happened was God's will.
So that's what I ended up accepting.
So like the praetorists trying to deal with stuff, how did that then force you?
This is the point I was trying to make.
That when you have something like that going on, and that's then your platform, your edifice.
Then when you look at texts like God seems like for masses and masses and masses and masses of
verses upset at the behavior of human beings, anthropomorphic language.
Immediately I had an answer.
So he wasn't really upset.
Yeah.
So he wasn't really upset.
He was simply trying to help the human who's reading this, understand.
Hey, this is like, no, no, you know, like it's, it's, he was so beyond us that honestly,
the best way he could try to communicate with us was this way, but he didn't actually have,
but trust me, I know, I know better now.
Of course, I think no, he was, he didn't know, or he was lost, or he was wrong,
or he was, he wished he didn't make man, or he was upset at destroying the man that he made.
Changing his mind.
And yes, he changed his mind, all of that.
But at the time, we found a way to say, look, he's so beyond us.
This is anthropomorphized language to try and get this unbelievably beyond us being to communicate
to us. But like, like for example, the two wills, God tells Moses to go tell Pharaoh,
let my people go, tell him to let my people go.
Does God want them to be let go?
Well, when he does, it says God hardened his heart so that he wouldn't.
So he wants Moses to go tell them to let my people go, but God wants him to let the people
go, but then he hardens Pharaoh's heart so that he doesn't let the people go.
I went with the secret knowledge of saying, God, whatever ultimately happens in all of existence
ever is what God wants, because nothing happens outside of as well.
I went full blown.
So full blown.
So yeah, all the, all the clients, all the clients.
He tells you to do something though, and you know, if he says you need to do this because this
is right and don't steal and don't lie, then that was his way of saying, if you don't do this,
well, I'm justified in whatever I do as Lord of Lords and King of Kings to punish you based
on the fact that you don't, you don't meet the status quo, even though he causes it.
Because that's what Romans nine verse where he's like, yeah, how can you, who are you?
Oh man, like when they say, how can God find any fault?
If all of this is happening at God's will, how can you, how can he blame us?
Yeah.
And his answer isn't an explanation.
It's who do you think you are?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You are clay.
He can make you however he wants.
And that I accepted as a Calvinist.
Right.
Okay.
So and that's, that's not even without talking original sin and being condemned in Adam.
Right.
Anyway, right off the bat, it's like Adam sins.
Everyone's condemned in Adam and he'll select a few out.
And it probably was a few as well, just a few.
But so even on top of that, ordaining anything doesn't really help much because you're already
condemned.
So we, as a non-Calvinist, we always had problems with that.
Oh yeah, I get it.
I just accepted it.
I was just like, I couldn't swallow the pill though because I was like, you mean to tell
me that there are people that I love that God, like there were things that I thought
about over the time as a Christian.
Yeah.
I love people more than God because I accepted the language.
Esau, I hate it.
When I, I used to think God loved everybody.
I did a little bit reverse from you.
You became charismatic.
Yeah.
I was charismatic and then moved out of that into a more, yeah.
Reformed.
More reformed.
And I became very reformed and was like, hold on.
Calvinism can get you.
I see the same sort of thing that how four preachers can get hold of you.
Calvinism can get hold of you because those people, charismatic and people who are Minion,
sometimes they don't even know they're Minion.
They're just in those churches and they don't think about it.
They're just in those churches.
Calvinists tend to be like mini versions of James White if you know him.
Yeah.
Or Jeff Durbin.
You know, they think through everything.
They get you on apologetics and they know everything about everything,
or they try to think they do.
They have an explanation.
They have an explanation and they go through every single possible thing
just like a full praises.
They've got something to answer everything.
Oh, well, what about if God ordains a fact of every rape and sin and everything else?
Well, because we've got some language you don't understand.
You know, because it's all to God's glory.
And the Bible says God can do whatever he wants with his creation.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yep.
And then at the same time, condemning you for everything you do,
it just doesn't seem to wash in any way to say that, you know,
we've got no choice to do anything and no ability to even become a Christian unless you've been chosen.
In the pee of the tulip, right?
Perseverance of the saints.
It's kind of sad because your whole duty, Jeff Durbin,
and then we'll scream at people through the microphone about condemning them for their actions
and their non-relief while their God is the one doing it, doing their own theology.
And then turns around and just taking that logic that your God is the one doing it.
And this poor person who might finally go, OK, just so I'm not yelled at,
I want to try and become a Christian.
They sincerely are trying, but Holy Spirit didn't activate that salvation.
So they spent several years trying to be this Christian.
And then finally, it doesn't make sense or it falls apart.
You realize it's bullshit.
And then you leave and then they go, you were never really one of us.
One of us who were never chosen.
Yeah.
And what kind of world is it in for someone to genuinely think they were and only for people
to say they never were?
That means that you could even think, why would anybody think anyone is a Christian?
Exactly.
You know, how do you know that you aren't?
Yeah, you are saved.
Well, I would get that tons of times, you know, people.
Oh, you know, funny enough, most of the responses to me have not been,
you were never really Christian.
They just say, oh, it's sad and everything else.
And I know you were.
But I do meet a lot of people who have the accusation that they never were.
And I think you've had that, haven't you?
Yeah, I get it all the time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, they can't comprehend how you can walk away from something,
you know, like that.
Except by the way, those people would be very happy if a Muslim walked away from their devout faith.
Right.
They'd be so glad that they would decide from that false belief.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We have a fantastic episode.
My favorite episode of the 62 we've done on our podcast was when we interviewed a Muslim
who had my journey, but in Islam.
Wow.
Matter of fact, our journey of praetorism is a very similar thing.
But when I talk to this Muslim, also our journey was like our journey,
not the same areas of praetorism, but in other areas, hell, the belief of the Bible,
the community, salvation, fear of the lost.
And when I heard this guy speaking as a Muslim, I thought, you're me,
but in a totally different religion for most aspects.
And I said, I couldn't believe it.
His deconstruction took place over a same period of time.
Similar points all through the science and faith.
The Quran to him was set in a sort of, it made sense to him that when he
de-converted from Islam, he says, now I know why it looks like a seventh century document.
And that's what it is.
You know, because he was trying his best to make it a 20th century document, you know.
This is why you don't see me like going and really challenge or get into the theology
debates because its interpretation is so flexible.
And I've gotten enough from my interviews on myth vision and seeing Muslims come into the chat
that when I've had ex-Muslims come on, it's the same tactic.
And that was, you're not really following the correct version of this one.
Or there's always an excuse.
And it's a natural thing.
It's the same thing with Christians.
You weren't really one of us.
So that was Calvinist.
Oh, my faith isn't even touched because I was never a Calvinist.
And we know they're wrong.
And it's like, or you were an Arminian and a Calvinist goes, no wonder you were never
really a Calvinist.
You were charismatic.
You were in the wrong face.
They have to find an answer, a bit like this pretoism thing.
You've got to find an answer that's right.
A Christian needs to stop their cognitive dissonance.
And therefore, like you say, I've had that.
I had somebody when I was on, it was an English radio station that I've been on three times.
And one of them was talking about my de-conversion.
Somebody, I think in the chat said, oh, yeah, that's right.
No, it wasn't that.
It was a chat called Chris Date.
You heard of him?
Yes.
Yeah.
He's an annihilationist.
He is.
He is.
And I've met him and we had a conference over here and I went to it.
He's a Calvinist.
Very rare to get the annihilationist Calvinism together.
James White falls out with him a lot over this.
He said to me, when I lost my faith and I told him it was a charismatic and it was this sort
of thing, it was an open theist.
He goes, oh, well, no wonder, you know.
Yep.
If only I was a Calvinist, I would still be a Christian today.
Or would I, you know, because if you didn't last, if you if you drop off the barrel at
any point, you never were.
So you always have this worry with Calvinism, whether you're saved or not, or chosen, really
chosen.
How do you know?
I mean, I don't know how you would know.
How does James White know?
Dude, you like, I can't, I'm not them, but you have to psych yourself out and by because I
actively participate and because I was actively trying and I was involved, you start believing
you're chosen and you start accepting the status that I'm elect and others are reprobates.
If you're not elect, you're reprobate.
You know what I mean?
Because any pride come into that, do you think?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Without a doubt, because I went out and hammered the Bible against other Christians using
predestinarian verses of God, causing people to be saved, granting them salvation, the gift
from God using Romans nine as the biggest hammer I could on other Christians and showing like
Paul is obviously a predestinarian.
And so like, they would of course go, John Calvin killed Surveytus.
Michael Surveytus was burned.
You know, like it was just like this never ending.
Bro, this thing is insane, man.
Absolutely right.
You know, I went to an open Theos conference who was so anti-Calvinistic and we had a church
historian there who, I don't think he was necessarily open Theos himself, but he certainly
went through the early church history saying, I remember the thing he did, he said, right,
I'm just going to get you all the Calvinistic predestination quotes from the early church
fathers.
And I'm going to put the Arminian ones up here and I'm going to put the Calvinist ones
up here.
And he put up two slides and there was a Minion full of everything and the blank for Calvinism.
His view was that you can't find it in the early prece...
Even James White, I think, concedes there's a lot of non-Calvinistic stuff going on in the
early church, you know?
But that's because they were into deception pretty quick, you see?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Of course, there's always, you know...
Yeah, same with Preterus.
They'd say, hey, how come Justin Mart is still looking for the second coming?
Preterus says, hey, well, they went off.
Yeah.
Yeah, no one agrees with their eschatology throughout history.
They just go through and find someone.
Oh, but he agrees with us on that part.
And then they're like, cheer your peak throughout history.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Dr. Romanot, thank you for the super chat.
Preterus in Matthew 24-29 should be translated immediately as it is multiple times in the
New Testament.
Just subbed, Andrew.
We haven't even refreshed your YouTube to see, by the way.
So we're going to see more subscribers you've grown.
But yeah, I don't know the Greek in that verse.
I'd love people to watch some of those episodes just to get the feel of that dynamic.
I think it's a very interesting way to do it.
Sorry.
Yeah.
So this question is you, Theos in Matthew 24-29 should be translated immediately as it
is multiple times in the New Testament.
Yeah.
So you mean like immediately after this tribulation?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened and the moon
will not give us light.
The stars will fall forever.
And then of course there's some who say all of this is just apocalyptic language and not
literal because it says something around the time of Babylon's destruction that Yahweh
came and the mountains melted like wax before his presence and the sun blotted out and the
stars did not give light.
And you know, it's really poetic, judgment-y language is what they'll say, not literal.
John Collins, I've done some interviews with John Collins.
That's a guy, I mean, he does not play games.
Yeah.
William Orrin says, won't the belief of the rapture and Armageddon continue if interstellar
travel stays an impossibility and irreligious revelations remains an escape?
Won't the belief of the rapture?
Oh, I see.
I see.
This is the idea of getting out of the rotten world that we're in is a deep-rooted thing
within us human beings maybe.
Yeah.
So the idea of literally traveling to other stars, if that can't happen, then we might
want to be raptured into some supernatural realm.
Yeah, it's interesting.
I suppose that has been, I mean, the rapture is still being pushed, isn't it, today?
Like, massively, isn't it?
For sure.
This imminent rapture like any day.
It's just crazy.
But, well, I mean, it's even crazy to think about people just suddenly disappearing anyway
in terms of the reality of what that would mean, you know.
So I think there's an error play.
And back in the day, I'm not sure if it's an apocryphal story, but I'm pretty sure that
I'd read in a few places that there was an airline once who only wanted one of the pilots
had to be a Christian in case the rapture, sorry, one of the pilots shouldn't be a
Christian in case the rapture came and there'd be no pilots to pilot the plane.
Have you ever heard that?
No.
So if you make what we want, we interview you for the job.
Are you not a Christian?
No.
Good.
Well, have you?
Because you'll be left.
Oh, my gosh.
You'll be left.
I remember the planes crashing on the left behind new movie that they had.
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's crazy.
Nicholas Cage was in a rapture movie, I think, I believe like that.
Yes.
They hired him for the new rapture series and stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
And people aren't watching our stuff anymore.
We need to get someone who's.
Yeah, we need to get someone who's like, we need some money, basically, probably.
Right.
Although there's a couple of big Christian movies out now, apparently, that are doing
well.
Isn't it one called The Chosen?
That's like a kind of like a gospel series of like Jesus and yeah.
I haven't watched it, but I've been told I really should that it's actually kind of cool
and interesting how they like did it.
But God's not dead.
Those two are big.
Oh, well, that one's kind of like, oh, my gosh.
No, I watched it and the first one anyway.
And I thought, oh, this is so awfully done.
You could I almost felt like pausing it every minute to make a comment.
You know, I said, no, professor wouldn't do that.
And if they did, they'd probably be, you know, the way that they did it or even the
answers and the questions and everybody was just, it was too coy at who lost the coin.
Just too cheesy, I suppose it was two stereotypes of everybody.
Right.
You know, but anyway, yeah.
Seth, thank you for that super chat.
Good show, guys.
That was our last super chat.
And now we're at the end of the, the end, the final, the end of the age.
We are at the end of the age, the end of the church age or the, the cosmos.
In some way.
Listen, this audience will not taste death before I know how many subscribers he has
now on his YouTube channel.
That's right.
Yeah.
I ask everybody, I'm giving you 10 seconds for now just to go subscribe to his YouTube channel.
And like our stream right now, like the stream that you're watching right now,
so that we can see YouTube, God's poor blessings down upon us.
Hallelujah.
All right.
And I'm going to go ahead and refresh Andrew's YouTube.
Andrew, I think when I first started, before we streamed, we had 688.
Is that how many?
That's right.
That's, it was 638, I thought.
Oh, was it?
Yeah.
I think so.
Okay.
I, that'd be interesting.
But my, my memory, again, memory is not a very great thing, is it?
But I thought it was 638.
But again, it's just something I never really pushed and marketed.
I just did it as a passion thing about eight years ago.
And I did plan to do a lot more as 14 subjects.
Love anyone to just watch these just to get a feel of Christian diversity.
And I think that really says it all.
I do want to just, just to waste a little time giving people a second to subscribe to you.
I do want to play that, that scene one more time.
Do.
Okay.
Here we go, everybody.
Good example.
This is good.
That he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
Then limited atonement is the only thing that makes sense.
Romans 5, Hebrews 2, 1 John 2.
He died for all.
He died for all.
He died for all.
So that's not what scripture teaches.
How can you call yourself a Bible-believing Christian and say,
I believe the Bible is the Word of God.
And then look at this verse, Hebrews 2, 9, and say Jesus didn't die for everybody.
But here he's talking about a specific group of people whom the Bible calls the predestined.
I didn't make that up.
John Calvin didn't make that up.
Lether didn't make that up.
Spurgeon didn't make that up.
This is Paul speaking under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
You're a liar is what you are.
You're a liar is what you are.
It is a particular redemption that pays for specific individuals like you and I.
You don't believe this book.
You believe in life written by man.
Wow.
That is strong.
That was amazing.
That was amazing.
I just think now anybody watching this, the whole all 14 episodes are a similar vein,
but perhaps not quite as amazing as that because I just happened to find two preachers who just so fiery.
But it's the same principle.
I intercut all these different subjects with a lot of research into finding these clips originally.
It took a lot of time to do.
Yeah.
But I felt I needed to do it because I thought I'd gone through all of this.
I want people to know what it's like to have all these views given to you.
And what do you do?
What do you do?
Which way do you go?
I mean, the one that really blew up with a lot of people watching was the Catholic one,
Catholic and Protestant Bible Bible, I think it was.
No, Catholics and Protestants generally the second one.
I just simple link out just so everybody knows.
That link in the chat right now is the video, but it is on his YouTube channel.
So you can subscribe on that.
Andy, thank you for becoming a member.
True salvation, hallelujah.
You are part of the real cult of God.
Thank you for being the doubts allowed podcast is something we currently do.
I'm just about to edit my 64th episode, I believe.
And we've covered so many subjects like you have on your channel,
but this is just radio like podcast, if you like, audio with lots of guests.
But we've covered all sorts of things, Old Testament genocides, resurrection,
we've had Matthew Harknell on a number of other guests over this period.
Basically, yeah, we've done hell, we've done praetorism,
we've done Old Testament sacrifice of human beings in the Old Testament,
all kinds of things like that.
And sometimes a lot of it is more like the cosmological argument and all these sort of
philosophical sides as well that the other hosts I'm with to talk more on than me.
I'm normally the biblical guy, not the philosophical one.
Yeah, me neither.
I'm not big.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I can't keep up with it or I don't like, you know,
I try to keep up with the cosmological column or whatever they call it,
arguments and all this stuff.
It kind of like I hit in my brain kicks in when it Bible.
Did you say Bible?
Great, let's talk about that.
That's right, you know, because they'll turn to me and say,
Andrew, what do you say about this?
We just did one on homosexuality, two parts.
So I'm just about to edit the second part.
The Bible and homosexuality, we did it.
Bart Ohman and a friend of his just did one as well, which I thought was amazing.
Yep.
Because everything we've had was, well, the one with Bart Ohman and his friend.
Well, I added all of his podcasts.
Oh, right.
Okay.
Because that was great.
And his courses.
I do all of his.
Right, you do all of that.
Right, that's brilliant.
I did say that I met Bart Ohman with Johanna, my daughter last Christmas.
We had, we met in West London and we had a great evening chatting about all sorts,
even Atlantis.
Oh, that's right.
I had my daughter.
And so she was talking all about Langes to him.
And I'm not sure quite how he was taking it.
I think it was quite surprised at some of her views, to be honest.
Yeah, that's, I mean, you know, you know, it was a fun time though,
because he knew her first through Neil, I believe.
Or was it you?
Yeah, no, Neil, Neil introduced us.
That's right.
Okay.
So Neil, yeah, yeah.
I do want to refresh this.
So I'm going to hit this.
This is 688.
Let's see how many subscribers.
Oh, it's 600.
So I thought you had to refresh it because I thought.
No, but before I do, I need to, I need to close the poll.
We're about to find out our ending the poll.
And it says 69%.
Have you subscribed to Andrew?
69% had said no.
Right.
30% said yes.
There was 410 votes.
Wow.
So that's a lot of people voting.
Now let's see what we have for your, your subscriber base for your YouTube.
Yeah, I should read the comments on that.
771.
Wow.
That's amazing.
Okay.
Yeah.
That is amazing.
Just from one session of talking to your, I bet you,
it's years ago, you remember you were that.
That must have been so many years ago.
Because what's yours now into the 1000, how many is it?
100,000?
No.
I think I'm like 85 or 86,000.
85.
Wow.
Amazing.
That takes work and effort though, doesn't it?
It takes work and effort.
Yes.
So Neil's probably doing the same thing.
And I mean, Johanna had, I believe for her channel though, she's got, I said 100,000.
No, I don't think it's that many, but she's certainly for one of the videos.
She has more than that.
Yeah.
She may have more than that, actually.
She has like 150 or something, I think.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's amazing to be able to be full time or majorly time.
Because it's full time for you, isn't it?
So, you can sort of work at it.
This is your job, you know.
So, but.
Well, do me a favor.
I'm going to wrap things up here, but I do want to show everybody.
Please take the time also.
Go over to Neil's channel.
He's live on our channel right now.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
Oh, this is to the audience.
So we can get, we got 349 people watching.
I'm commenting the link right now to Neil's live stream right now.
Everybody go over there.
Horace Neil right now in the chat.
And everybody says, let's see.
What do we want them to say?
MythVision's coming for you.
Just put MythVision's coming for you in the chat.
I'm going to put it right now in the chat, too.
The end is nigh, I'd say.
Yeah.
Yeah, you could say that, too.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right.
I just posted it.
Everybody go over there.
Right.
I might.
If anyone's new.
I might flick on in there and watch that as well.
That'll be fun.
Aaron Rowe is always interesting.
Any final words from you, Andrew?
Oh, sorry.
Sorry.
Any final thoughts?
Sorry.
You're fine.
Okay.
I thought that.
Well, my final words are that I think that my journey is unique in the sense that I know it
parallels yours.
But again, I'd not have met anyone else who's been like you, either.
So to me, it's like finding, wow, there's someone else.
And there's probably quite a few others.
But there's someone else who has been through a very, very similar journey.
I just didn't go as far as you in the insanity.
I think I jumped off.
I jumped ship before I went through into the biggest part of it.
But I don't know what that means.
I mean, but anyway, we've had a similar journey.
So I think for anyone listening, I'll probably jump.
They've probably already gone now, but who watches the video after it's out.
Is to say that for me, my journey is unique, but it does show you that the passion and
direction was to hold on.
I mean, I was a Christian for 35 years and I went down fighting.
I didn't want agnosticism or atheism.
I didn't aim at that.
I didn't plan it.
And the final thing I'd say is that I've often said, if somebody said, if I could go back in time,
because I'm a big fan of Doctor Who and I like time travel and all kinds of things like that,
I would go back in time.
And I think what would happen is this.
If I went back to my, say, let's say my 25 year old self now,
I think we would say nothing and just slap each other.
The older me would go, stop, stop it right now and snap out of this.
The younger me would go, what became you?
You know, how do you know?
So that's what I think about myself.
Both of us would slap each other for very different reasons.
Exactly.
I'm not 100 percent.
I'm one of you went back 15 years ago.
I don't know if I'd listen to me because I was so caught up thinking so.
But look, everybody subscribe.
Go over to Neil right now.
Let's go harass the living shit out of this guy right now.
He'll appreciate it and like his video and ours.
Sorry.
No, absolutely.
I'm going to go and watch it myself.
So I'm going to go.
I won't harass, but I will watch.
Let's do it.
This has been amazing, Derek.
It's been fantastic to anticipate coming on the show,
doing the show and just covering the story of mine and yours, really.
Yeah, you really.
I love you, man.
I really appreciate you.
That's great.
I appreciate it so much.
It is wonderful to meet someone with a very similar streak of understanding.
I think we have similar minds and passions for the Bible still.
So that's an ongoing thing, you know?
Yes, exactly.
Tux, thank you for that last minute super chat.
You are welcome in the new Jerusalem.
Outside is where the dogs will be licking the wounds of those who.
Anyway, thank you so much and have a wonderful evening.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
