All right, all right, we're live MythVision podcast.
How are you doing today?
Hope you're doing well.
We've been doing a lot of stuff here on the platform,
launching all sorts of new things,
tons of stuff coming up,
tons of stuff we've recently done.
Currently, I'm ready to pull my hair out of my head.
I have so much work to do.
So sometimes what you gotta do is escape.
How do you escape?
Find healthy ways to do that, of course.
And sometimes that's coming and hanging out with you,
doing a live stream.
I hope you're all doing well.
Everybody in the chat.
Let's get this intro started
just to allow people to trickle in.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland
and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
All I wanted was the truth, nothing more.
All I'm offering is the truth, nothing, nothing, nothing...
Everything.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
We got some great people in the chat.
I hope that live, that intro was long enough
to get some people to join us.
And it looks like we have some people joining us today
on a Friday.
I am working my butt off.
You see Dr. Kip in the house.
He's just trying to get back at me
because while he was here, I was cracking the whip on him.
I was a task master from Egypt.
And he is just not building my pyramids quick enough.
And I was just like, you know what?
So he's whipping back.
I'm actually editing a course specifically with him.
And this course is amazing as usual.
I'm learning so much.
You've been editing what I'm editing of his.
So Kip's in the house.
Everybody attack him right now.
Attack him with love.
And the way you can do that is subscribe to the scholars
that we have on MythVision.
Really glad to see everybody in the chat.
I hope everybody's having a wonderful day.
You know, I'm here to show love.
I do care about our community and how they feel about things.
Some people might be cold and dead inside, but not me.
And so I wanted to hang out with you.
Take any questions, do Q&A.
Of course, Super Chat, skip the line.
They always help us keep the lights on here.
And just give you my honest thoughts
about whatever topics might be out there
and what I've learned so far in terms of investigating
with various scholars where I land.
I mean, how often do I interview others, right?
And I get a lot of responses from you, the audience,
going, Derek, I want your brain to tell us
what you might think about something.
And so this is what I do.
Every once in a while, I'll do a live stream.
And I probably should do them more often with you
to tell you where I'm at.
Nothing set in stone, that's for sure.
But I think it's important to give people
where the interviewer is in terms of what
they think about stuff.
And you can ask me anything.
It doesn't have to be Bible related.
It doesn't have to be atheist.
It doesn't have to be whatever.
It could be family.
It could be upcoming stuff, whatever you want.
I'm all open, transparent here for you.
So I really do appreciate everybody.
Dr. Tabor jet lagged.
He just came back from the Holy Land.
Why not listen to Derek?
Look, I get it.
When you're bored and you're tired and miserable,
you got to listen to me.
I understand.
Look, it makes sense.
You and my wife have a lot in common then, I guess.
So thank you so much, everybody.
Apostasy in the chat.
You just did a live stream with Derek Bennett.
I hope people go check out.
I hope to get your story here as well at some point.
Oh, we got a super in the house.
Super chisel, Craig and Ford in the house.
John F. White, if you haven't subscribed to him,
you should probably wake up and smell the coffee
because he's on YouTube.
He's got a pretty big YouTube channel.
Douglas Adams wrote,
in the beginning, the universe was created.
This had made a lot of people very angry
and been widely regarded as a bad move.
What do you think God's biggest mistake was?
That's, there's so many hypotheticals in this question.
In the beginning, the universe was created.
This has made a lot of people very angry
and been widely regarded as a bad move.
I don't even know how to approach this question
as far as what do you think God's biggest mistake was.
It also depends if we're talking about the biblical God.
The biblical God says he's sorry for making man,
like he's troubled by having to flood the earth
and destroy his creation, his mankind.
I guess it depends on how we're approaching this
and through what lens of religion or book,
specifically, we're going at it.
But if I had to guess,
what do you think God's biggest mistake was?
This is me in retrospect.
You can see my bias coming in here,
but if we take the Genesis narrative,
let me drop this so you can see my face here.
If we take the Genesis narrative as what actually happened
and it would take it somewhat literal in some way,
this is also difficult too,
because if you take it somewhat literal,
you could say the serpent was actually representative
of a man who slept with Eve or something like that.
Some rabbis had the idea that the serpent slept with Eve.
Depends on who's perspective,
but why even introduce the option of sin?
Why allow suffering and pain and all that, right?
So that would be where I would go,
why not just have a utopia to begin with?
This is something in retrospect.
And I think that's because everyone watching,
whether you're a believer or not,
we can all relate in suffering in some way,
whatever it is.
Some may have suffered more than others,
but I think that common ubiquitous thing
we experience of pain and suffering,
that's something that I wish,
is that necessary?
Was that necessary?
And whose fault ultimately is it
if you take that worldview
as that there really was a God who created all of this?
So to God though, it may not be a mistake to him,
but then again, is God experiencing the pain?
I mean, Christians will say he did 2000 years ago,
he was put on a cross, et cetera, et cetera.
So there's all sorts of questions
and that's a tough one to tackle, John,
because it depends on how you approach this.
And of course, that's the problem for me,
sitting in the seat of interviewing thousands of people,
is I hear the perspectives
and I don't even know what angle
to approach with that super chat.
How do we wanna approach it?
So if you wanna dive a little deeper
and give me a particular nuance to that question,
I'm more, I'm like, I'm game to go deeper.
Anyway, I'd be happy to answer more,
if that makes sense, of my perspective.
But I also think it sucks
that the kind of the hide and seek kind of thing,
like where's God, right?
And I know that this can go endless,
where Christians will say stuff like,
you expect God to be a genie,
you wish for something and if it doesn't happen,
then God doesn't exist, that kind of thing.
But I imagine if there is something,
let's just say beyond us,
because I am not omniscient.
I start with naturalism,
because it's the most obvious thing to me
and I work outward from there.
There could be something more,
but I just don't think the depictions we're seeing
in the Bible in any way should be taken literal
about God at all.
So these are perceptions of men
and their experience being portrayed.
And this is why I think we see a lot of very old concepts
throughout the Bible,
is if there is a God and it knows the future and such,
it seems to have a very within the zeitgeist of the times
that these men wrote perception.
And one might say that that God's cooperating with man
at that time to achieve those goals.
It's just hard for me to think that when there's knowing
the end from the beginning and like prophecies
of the future and such, they don't come to pass
in many cases, what the heck is that?
You know, for someone like me that they failed,
that can't be God.
And John J. Collins actually corrected me one time
when I went to interview him about,
well, God said this in Hosea
and God said that in this book
and thus sayeth the Lord in this book.
And he's like, God didn't say that.
The people who wrote that said, this is what God said.
So it tells you more about the people
than it tells you about God.
And so that was a real,
even though I had already knew that,
he corrected me in my thinking.
So it's hard to answer that question that you asked
because how are we approaching it?
Are we already assuming this God
and it's the biblical God that exists and such?
But I also wanna try and be careful
about how we're approaching this
and not just condemning anything from the past
that doesn't fit our modern morals.
I wanna understand kind of like an anthropologist
wants to understand fossils.
I hope that clarifies some,
but thank you so much for the love, my friend,
and that great video.
It's been pretty popular on the channel,
the Genesis, Origins of Genesis.
By the way, we have so much more we could talk about
when it comes to mythology.
I had to cut us off at 40 minutes
because I already know how you and me go.
We'll never end.
Welcome in the chat, everybody, rum runner.
Do more debunking Islam.
Oh, you have to do it through YouTube, Dan?
That's the only way to do a super chat.
Definitely, definitely, definitely, definitely.
I dare you to debate Daniel Hikikachu, two things.
Call it what you want.
I don't do debates.
Don't act like I have all the answers on that.
Plus, I would honestly rather, if I were,
and I don't even know if I'd be interested,
after knowing a lot about what he argues for,
would even be interested in having a conversation
with someone who's trying to make it normal
that six-year-olds, nine-year-olds
can be sexually active and such,
and should be able to marry and things like that.
There's a huge leap in where he's at,
in his defense of Islam, and a radical version of it.
Whereas I would just say, why doesn't he debate
someone like a more progressive, scholarly,
Harvard University Muslim, like Javad Hashmi?
Why not debate him?
I mean, of course, I know that there may be a leg up
where he'll show hadith and such
to actually permit these kind of things.
Yet, it'd be interesting to hear him talk to
an actual expert in Islam
from a more progressive liberal approach.
And I love Javad Hashmi.
I mean, I know he's Muslim.
I know he disagrees with my ontology at the end of the day,
and would want to try and show you
that using historical methodology, Islam,
and maybe Muhammad isn't as painted by the later hadiths,
where he's more of a militant, vicious, war-like leader.
Instead, he may not have been that way,
and he's using internal evidence from the Quran
and saying, those people painted Muhammad
in the image of themselves as a ruling empire
that is expanding and conquering the world.
So, it's kind of like today.
What kind of Jesus do you have?
Are you Republican?
I bet you Jesus has your values.
Are you Democrat?
I bet you Jesus, not saying everybody does this,
but it's like the person becomes the image of you
that you favor technically worship.
Now, I know they would say,
don't use the word worship.
We only worship Allah.
But who are you absolutely faithful to?
To the core, where you can't even say his name
without saying, peace be upon him.
And you're absolutely cherishing the guy.
That would be why.
So, I had to address that, saw that in the chat,
and I try to mix in the supers and the non-supers occasionally
to show people a little bit of attention here,
because obviously the super chats help grow the channel
and help me continue doing what I'm doing.
I don't give a damn, Robin Faith Walsh has a husband.
I wanna have a drink with her, you're crazy.
The ghost of myth vision,
thank you so much for the super chat.
You know, I got a funny fact for you.
Most people probably have no clue about this,
but when I edit my videos with Robin Faith Walsh,
and I go to hashtag at the bottom on my videos,
when you type in hashtag,
you might can actually do it on YouTube.
If you type in Robin Faith Walsh,
they give you a list of recommendation
like under that typed out name.
It says Robin Faith Walsh husband.
So, there's gotta be guys just like you
who are on YouTube searching for her husband
to find out about whether or not she's single or not.
So, get in line my friend.
There's so many people out there that are just like that.
Oh, thank you, thank you.
Douglas Grant, hello Derek.
Thank you for all the information you provided
on your podcast, your YouTube page.
It is an available treasure of resources.
Thank you, appreciate it.
Invaluable, you said.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Appreciate that.
I'm scrolling down here.
I saw them with some supers, I'm gonna hit them.
Hit them, hit them, hit them.
Drowning baby Chihuahua was in the flood.
Tabor's having fun.
He's trying to get over his, I guess, 15 hour,
14 hour flight.
It's pretty heavy.
Rev Robbins became a YouTube member.
You just witnessed a miracle happen, ladies and gentlemen.
Anyone who joins, anyone who joins
and becomes a YouTube member, automatic apotheosis.
And it starts immediately.
So, some people might come into your house
after you join and become a member
and notice your face glowing like the sun.
They might think you're Moses.
They might think you're Jesus.
It has this effect.
I don't know why, it just happens, okay?
That's how powerful the membership program is.
So, Rev, you get to commit one sin
as long as it's nonviolent, all right?
It gives you that access to do one sin, okay?
Being funny.
Thank you so much, Rev, for becoming a member.
I really appreciate it.
Rumrunner says, after leaving Christianity,
I enjoy the Bible more
because I can read it without pressure
and just like it for the myths and poetry relatable.
This is a great question.
I love this question.
You know, you get a lot of comments
and people make a lot of statements
and you know, I'm antagonistic to fundamentalism
as you know.
However, I do enjoy studying and learning the Bible.
I love learning about the who, what, when, where, why, how
and I've said it before, this might sound funny,
but when you worship Jesus as actual God in the flesh
and you really believe this is the only true God,
that all the other religions, all of the other claims
in the world that pertain to their particular faiths
are not true, that yours is
and if something happened or a spiritual thing,
well, there is a spirit realm.
So, demons and demonic forces might be at play
with those other world religions,
gives you wiggle room for the claims that they make,
but you have to make a slam on them, right?
You have to say, oh, but they're not godly, they're bad.
I analogize it to the magician, David Blaine.
And I always use David Blaine
because he's pretty well known and famous
for being a magician and I'll use the word trickster.
He's an illusionist.
People believe what the heck they're seeing
even though it's a trick.
And someone whispers and goes,
hey, you wanna see how the trick's done?
You wanna see why it looks the way it does
even though here's the real situation.
And I got to see behind the curtain.
And when you see the cultural zeitgeist,
you see the situation,
you find out several other figures, including Caesars,
were born miraculously by divine deities.
And even in Plutarch,
he talks about a virgin divine conception
by the spirit, the Numa of Zeus and making Plato.
And you find out like, hold on, did that really happen?
So you see this is kind of myth-making,
legend-making in the process.
Once you see that, at first,
you can see that there's still antagonism,
I guess you'd say, to the fundamentalist from me,
but you start to like the idea like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
So this is like, if my family member died,
and I made him into something bigger,
or her into something bigger than they really were,
to kind of pass on the stories to the next generations,
because we all love a story.
We all love a little fiction.
That's what it seems like is going on here.
Now, putting your finger on exactly
the Jesus scenario of resurrection and whatnot,
there's all sorts of plausible explanations
that can make sense as to why these people believed
that Jesus rose from the dead.
And it could go from the full-on legend side
to the full-on, these people actually thought
that Jesus rose from the dead to you name it.
There's all sorts of plausible explanations.
We just have not very good data to answer the question,
but I love the stories.
I love thinking about Jonah,
not in the literal actual big fish, giant whale,
whatever swallows a guy,
but in the concept of death swallows.
And here's this fish in this allegory, it seems,
swallowing this man to death, to shield,
and him overcoming it in some strange way in this story.
And he doesn't wanna go talk to the enemies of his people
and tell them to stop being harsh,
stop being violent to Israel,
and God will forgive you,
but he doesn't want God to forgive him.
Anyway, I love learning all this stuff,
not believing in it literally.
I love learning where the Mesopotamian stories
may have influenced Genesis.
I love learning about just the biblical context itself
and hearing how crazy some of this stuff sounds
because it reminds me of Game of Thrones.
Who doesn't enjoy watching Game of Thrones?
Maybe some of you don't, I do.
And even the ugly and the crazy and the what, hold on,
there's incest, there's fighting,
there's all sorts of stuff going on in there.
And you're like, what the heck, even dragons?
Leviathan sound familiar?
So you kinda like look at it in a way that isn't,
like you said, the pressure isn't there.
So I would read this like I would read other books
in Greek mythology or stories and history, et cetera.
That's how I feel about it.
And I also love what Dennis McDonald said yesterday
where he says that this material,
when you think of it in the way that he's describing it,
it's a sophisticated art by the authors.
In the course on Mark I did with James Tabor,
who I think is still in the chat,
he literally kind of describes it as like,
all right, the curtain falls and then it opens for a moment
and someone comes out and goes, all right,
here's the story about Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
Then walks back, curtain closes, curtain opens.
Here's this guy at a river named John the Baptist,
baptizing Jesus right out the gate,
first scene, scene one, take one, cut, or whatever,
you know, like how they do the start thing for movies.
That's how it feels.
And that course goes deep into the whole gospel of Mark,
but I like that.
And nobody's shoving, if you don't believe this,
do you know where you're going for all eternity?
That's right.
Oh, and make sure you vote against these people
who don't identify like us, et cetera, et cetera.
Anyway, that'll go down a whole different rabbit trail.
Joe Pearson in another life I would have liked
just doing myth vision and taxes with you.
Joe, man, good to see you in the chat.
Haven't seen you in a while.
Let me scroll down here.
Oh, Kip is definitely gonna be having fun with this one.
Get ready for this.
So I'm currently reading God and Anatomy
and I am totally perplexed at how many online critics
miss this important point.
The Bible is a book about people, not any God.
Okay, brave new history in the hizzy.
I'm starting the TEB only movement.
Tabor James, what's the TEB?
I hope I'm not like just not catching what you're saying.
Maybe you're saying it in the super chat.
Scrolling down to see if I see anything from you.
I don't see it.
Mr. Wake Up Calls says,
why have you not interviewed anyone that knows God
did not create the species of man and or everything?
That's kind of a strange question.
I'm not really sure.
Email me what you mean, give me further details
because I definitely have had people on that are scientists
who think we evolved.
And so they don't think,
oh, so you're advertising yourself on that.
Well, you need to email me and I need to read up
and see if you have anything I can see your background on
and specifically investigate that further.
Cause I am very careful about who I just have joined me
on the channel.
Inquisitive mind, nearly 40,000 views
for the Was Umar the Messiah.
Wow, I didn't know it went up that fast.
So we have a video that we did on Umar, the second Caliph.
And was he considered or viewed as the Messiah,
especially from the Jewish perspective during the period
by allowing the Jews to go back to rebuild the temple.
We're talking seventh, eighth century, right?
Seventh century, I think it is.
So the six hundreds.
Really appreciate that inquisitive mind.
Scrolling down accidentally, is it accidentally?
Agnostic, thanks for all you do, Derek.
Do you mind giving a snapshot of how you broke
deconversion news to your children
and guided them out of Christianity?
Ooh, making a personal email or a super chat.
So I don't coerce anyone or even try to pressure anyone
in my family to not be what they are.
I don't do, I try not to do that to anybody,
including online.
I'm just here to be a human
who's trying to figure out the truth.
But I will say this, I have vocalized over time
around my family, my wife, who was already closer to,
you know, she was actually very normal, I wasn't.
And she always would tell me men wrote the Bible, right?
And that was enough for her to realize,
no, no, no, you don't understand, men wrote it.
And I'm like, no, no, no, scribes moved
by the Holy Spirit pinned, the Holy Spirit
like coercibly moved their hand in a way
that it's without error and it has the true message
and, you know, this kind of fundamentalist view
of scripture, which is a Protestant one.
And my wife would go, men wrote it, men made mistakes,
men, and I'm like, no, no, no, no, no.
And I would try to like argue with her for several years.
I think about a decade.
I had to be the most abusive when it came
to the religious side of things with my wife.
And I'm trying to make that up today.
But when I started vocalizing
that I no longer believed this
and that this book was written by men,
she was right all along.
I should listen to her a little more, right?
I started to speak openly in my own house about this.
And my children hear it.
And some of them make their own minds up
about what they hear their father say
or what they hear their mother say,
or one of them was influenced by my mom, who's a Christian.
And one of them believed in Jesus and stuff.
I don't know if they still do, but they've asked me
and there was a moment where it really affected me
because my youngest started crying
because he was worried I was gonna go to hell.
My youngest, we're talking at the time,
he was like seven years old
and he was really worried I'm gonna go to hell.
And I was explaining, trying to explain this to him
because he had gone to church with my mom a few times.
And it didn't take three or four, maybe five times
to go to church when we were back living in North Carolina.
For him to come to this kind of conclusion,
probably couple that with things my mom may have said
around the household.
For him to start drawing this kind of perception
that gets instilled from Christianity.
And I mean, let me not say all Christianity,
but Orthodox Christianity really puts the hell thing
as one of the issues.
And it's been that way for a long time,
especially Protestants.
So I imagine Catholics as well,
but that kind of deconversion from that notion,
I have worked on trying to make my kid understand
that that's the harmful idea
that is based off of mythology, legend, human perception,
the observation of the natural world.
Someone may have seen fire come out of the ground,
other mythologies before,
whether it be Greco-Roman or Zoroastrian
from Persia, et cetera, influence.
That all goes over his head though,
because it's simple basic stuff that really he connected to,
that got him thinking and believing this is true
with his emotions.
And then he was worried about his father.
So now my whole family knows,
and I think they want to avoid the conversation
with me as much as they can about God.
But I still, whenever it comes up,
and sometimes it does, I let them know.
And I don't shy away from sharing my peace,
but I also don't go out of my way to condemn them
or their thoughts or their beliefs.
And when we go to Thanksgiving and they're holding hands,
I hold hands with them when they pray.
I spend holidays with my family, none of that changes.
I just personally, it doesn't affect me, right?
So I don't believe.
So that's my whole position.
If one of my kids chooses to believe at the end of the day,
that's his choice.
I mean, I've got three boys.
So I don't make them make that decision,
but they do know daddy works in this area
and this is what I do.
So if they have any questions, I'm happy to guide them.
If they say, dad, I'm interested in a life of faith.
I'm curious about this.
Look, I'm not gonna say that I wouldn't try to deter them
if I thought that what they were getting into
was really something harmful,
but I'm also not gonna stop them.
I would be happy to explain to them
why I don't think it's true
and why I think it is a man-made construct,
but it's a tough one
because I don't wanna push anyone in or out of anything.
I want them to make the decision on their own
based on their research
and based on what they're perceiving.
So that's why I do what I do here to educate,
not trying to enforce, but at the same time,
I don't know how that'll change for me.
Will I become more aggressive in my approach?
Will I stay the same?
I don't know where I'm at
because I'm always changing as well
and how I might do that with my own kids.
Great question.
It's a very personal one,
but a very serious question at that.
So I really do appreciate you asking that.
And as I learn more and read and study,
I'm certain I will always change
and I wanna try and remain a student till I die.
People with PhDs, experts in particular subject matters.
I think my encouragement, my philosophy to anybody
would be always try your best to remain a student and learn.
That's it.
So that is a philosophy I do teach my kids
to always be open-minded and learn and they are.
So that's, I'm proud of how far I've come.
You don't get everything right
and that's just my own personal two cents.
So if you have any other questions pretending
that I'm happy to answer it.
Thank you for that question too.
And I hope that everyone can relate in some way.
Rama Haraya?
Hi, Derek.
When you get a chance,
can you check out the video Caesar and Jesus,
John, Dominic, Croson, Shukran?
Shukran, forgive me if I butchered that last word.
The video Caesar and Messiah?
I've interviewed John, Dominic, Croson multiple times.
John, Dominic, Croson, Jesus and Caesar.
Off this up for everybody to see.
Here we go.
All right, so I don't know if it's this one
or if you're talking about this one
but that one's actually my interview with John.
Also this one, I've done like 10, 12 interviews
with John, Dominic, Croson and I love Dom.
Amazing human.
I mean, he's such a great person.
I love him.
Disagree with him on the apocalyptic Jesus
even though it sounds in our conversations recently
that he's actually kind of like,
well, Jesus might have been apocalyptic, okay?
Maybe he was but even if he was wrong about that,
he had some message that he liked.
So this must be the one you're talking about here.
And so for that reason, especially since you super chat
at the least I can do is try to drop it in the chat
so anyone who might wanna check that out later,
that is there.
I really appreciate you.
I may have watched some of this in the past
before interviewing him
but I'll have to recap and go back over it.
Thank you so much for that, my friend.
Thanks for that super chat.
Why not Dr. Craig Considine?
I don't know who that is.
Okay, Wutu, Islam versus Christianity comparison
of source credibility and changes in scripture.
I mean, so obviously you have a strict trying to keep
since the I'll say first canonization of the Quran.
You have a more rigorous method of maintaining
what the Quran says than what we see with the Bible.
But if that's what you're judging on which one's more true,
then that's it.
So Joel says, hit the like button.
Nobody wants to go to eternal conscious torment
for not just pressing the like button.
Come on, it's simple.
It's easy, easy.
Why not Dr. Craig?
I don't know who that is.
Rev Robbins, after 20 years of ministry,
I learned there's only one force more powerful than Jesus.
The IRS, pay your taxes everyone.
Amen.
Rev, thank you for that super chat.
And it almost makes you wonder like should we become a,
what is it, a 501c3, you know, like business or something,
right?
So we don't have to pay taxes, might as well.
I really do appreciate you throwing
that super chat up there.
You could almost don't know where to land on this
in Paul's letters, but Paul talks about
1 Corinthians 7 in this weird way.
Let's turn there.
Let's turn there for a second while we're brought up here
since you are a minister as well.
I read this and you know, maybe I'm reading into it,
but it's kind of, let me do the RSV.
I noticed lots of academics love to use the RSV
when they are talking about this stuff.
So from the scriptures,
considering the matters about which you wrote,
it is well for a man not to touch a woman.
But because of the temptation to immorality,
each man should have his own wife
and each woman her own husband.
The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights.
And likewise the wife to her husband,
for the wife does not rule over her own body,
which is, you can see where this is going.
Let's skip ahead a little here.
To the rest I say, not the Lord that if any brother,
hold on, where's the money thing at?
Only let everyone who has life,
isn't it 1 Corinthians 11?
Where's the money thing?
Maybe it's 1 Corinthians eight.
I thought it was seven.
I'm putting food, eating food to idols.
Am I in the wrong book?
Where's the passage everybody?
I'm scrolling down.
Where's the passage where he's sitting there saying,
look, look, look, I don't want your money, okay?
I don't want your money,
but these guys get your money and they marry
and they're taken care of.
You know, come on, I mean, what about me?
But I'm not asking for your money.
Do you remember where that's at?
Help me out.
Help me out.
I'm here in the chat.
And if you're enjoying this for real, press one.
I want to see everybody in the chat.
If you're loving this, let me know in the chat.
Put that one in there.
I'm at the bottom here,
waiting on anybody who might have the answer
to where that passage is.
First Corinthians nine.
I knew James was, James, I'm a prophet.
I knew, but I didn't want to tell you I knew.
I knew that you were going to say this.
See, James?
All right, I really appreciate you doing that.
So it's nine.
I knew it.
And notice James knows what I'm talking about
when I'm saying this.
So let's pull this up here for a second.
Making sure you can't read that.
So we're going to shrink my little, my big head.
All right, this is my defense.
He's being defensive.
To those who would examine me,
do we not have the right to our food and drink?
Do we not have the right to be accompanied by a wife
as the other apostles and brothers of the Lord and keep us?
Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right
to refrain from working for a living?
Who serves as a soldier at its own expense?
At his own expense.
Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruits?
Who tends a flock without getting some of the milk?
Do I say this on human authority?
Does not the law say the same?
And this is that funny passage.
Muzzle and oxen.
Like as if this is actually not talking about muzzling oxen.
Does he not speak entirely for our sake?
The way he interprets scripture.
It was written for our sake
because the plowman should plow in hope
and the thresher thresh in hope of a share in the crop.
If we have our own spiritual good among you,
is it too much if we reap your material benefits?
Give us some of your money.
Make sure you feed us.
Give us our stuff.
If others share this rightful claim upon you,
do not we still more?
Nevertheless, nevertheless,
we have not made use of this right,
but we endure anything rather than put an obstacle
in the way of the gospel of Christ.
Do you not know that those who are employed
in the temple services get their food from the temple
and those who serve at the altar
share in the sacrificial offerings
in the same way the Lord commanded
that those who proclaim the gospel
should get their living by the gospel?
But I have made no use of any of these rights,
nor am I writing this to secure any such provision
for I would rather die
than have anyone deprive me of my ground for boasting.
For if I preach the gospel,
so he gives this like very humble road,
but he thinks it's sounding humble.
The way I'm reading this is it sounds a bit prideful.
You know, look, 1 Corinthians 15.
I was born in like in really strange times at the end,
the least of all, not deserving to be apostle,
but I worked harder than all of them.
What?
What?
I could probably catch Paul saying,
I mean, I wouldn't be shocked if Paul ever said,
listen, brethren, because he likes to talk to guys mainly
and they're probably mostly men.
Listen, brethren, we all know, we all know.
I don't wanna say this, okay?
But I'm the most humble person in this room and you know it.
In fact, you should all speak in tongues,
but I speak in more tongues than you do.
Okay?
Like he does this like reverse psychology with his language
and he does it all through his letters.
That's my reading of Paul a lot.
Forgive me if I'm wrong,
but hard for me as a guy to not see it.
I don't know.
James will probably agree.
I don't know.
Ask James in the chat.
I'll see if I come across it after I catch up
from these super chats because that's my personal take
in many cases.
I don't know.
I can't psychoanalyze him completely,
but it sounds like there's something going on there.
Brave New History, Transparent English Bible,
Dr. Tabor's translation.
Okay.
Well, I know that James did a Genesis book not long ago
where he translates Genesis
and that is a very unique translation
that you're not gonna read.
Like there's a lot of stuff in the Hebrew
that you don't see come out in the English translations.
And that's something that I know he did,
but I don't know if that's what you're referring to.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Myth Vision Podcast,
where do you currently stand on documentary hypothesis?
J-E-P-D?
Are P-P-D?
Supplementary Hypothesis?
Maybe your own take on the data.
Look, this stuff is very complicated
and I am no expert.
I'm no textual critic.
I don't, I mean, obviously I've read these different views.
I tend to go along with the documentary hypothesis.
However, I'm not talking about the 19th century version,
Velhausen and such.
I'm speaking more on the Joel Baden side,
but I don't rule out other positions making sense
because some stuff is supplemented, right?
So it makes sense to me that some of it's supplemented.
I don't know what to say,
but I can tell you that both supplementary
and documentary hypothesis have one thing
in common that people who are criticizing it
aren't even noticing.
And what is that?
They all agree there are various sources
with different voices that are not done by the same author.
Michael Jones did his criticisms
of the documentary hypothesis
and he wants to act like Genesis one and Genesis two
are written by the same author
who just different perspectives and stuff like that.
I tend to disagree and see various scholars
or various voices, sorry,
in this literature that are compiled.
So both agree with that supplementary and documentary
where I land, I would lean toward documentary,
but I don't have any dog in that fight
and I don't really know the answer for sure.
So really appreciate it.
Lord Roku, thank you.
Appreciate the compliment
for my wonderful queen of myth vision.
Isn't it funny?
Finally figured out men wrote it
when I intensely studied it.
It's amazing when you finally know that men wrote this thing.
Quite interesting.
I haven't watched the chosen.
I've been tempted to go and check it out
just to see how they do it.
So feel free to email me,
Derek at mythvisionpodcast.com
or mythvisionpodcast at gmail.com.
Okay, let's scroll down here.
I know I got some super, Esoterica, oh snap.
It'd be great to get Dever and Finkelstein
on to debate the low chronology
and Christopher Rolston for a paleography and forgeries.
Iggy, Johash, inscription.
Look, I'm trying to get Finkelstein's theme,
however you pronounce it, on myth vision.
I really am.
Dever doesn't even use an email.
From what I was told, he doesn't even have an email.
William G. Dever.
For those who are curious, I got his book back here.
Forgive the echo.
Here it is.
So this book here, did God have a wife?
Of course, he goes into much more than that,
but this is like a popular level book that he wrote
about the topic in his scholarship on it,
about Ashura, the Ashura poll and all of that.
However, I want to meet up,
if I went to Israel in Megiddo,
I want to meet up with Finkelstein, Israel Finkelstein.
So I'm really, I've got his book as well,
loved it, read it a few times.
It's very complicated, but he places a lot of stuff
that's supposed to have happened
in the 12th, 13th century in the seventh
due to archeological finds.
So like there's nothing found below the layer
of the seventh century.
And he's saying biblical authors would have written this
at least by the seventh century or later
because events that took place in the places
they're geographically saying didn't happen till later.
I know there are other scholars too.
I think it's, I can't remember the name
of the other scholar, but he has criticisms
of Israel Finkelstein and I want to get both of them
to give their take.
So I'd love to have them on.
I don't know if there's a way to make it happen,
how to get ahold of them to make it happen.
Maybe our good friend Dr. Tabor in the chat
can maybe help me out over here.
I don't know.
You know, listen, listen,
is a man not worth his wages, Dr. Tabor?
I mean, do I not have right to get this email from you
so that I can contact these people so that we can make a,
all right, I'm sounding like Paul too much.
Go subscribe to Esoterica, Dr. Justin Sledge.
He's kicking butt.
I loved his recent Yahweh video, of course.
And I'm hoping to put a course together with him
sometime this year.
Maybe we can record that
and everybody can go and take that with him.
So Dr. Sledge, thank you for tuning in.
I would love nothing more than to talk with these scholars
since I've read their works and I'm just indebted
to a lot of the things that they've taught me
that make me really go, wow, ancient Near Eastern.
This is definitely in the same vein
as other societies surrounding the Israel's society.
So thank you so much for that.
Yeah, we got love in the chat.
I don't know how many people are in here
that see Dr. Sledge in here, show him some love,
stop scamming man says, hi, Derek.
I seriously feel sorry for anyone studying Abrahamic faiths
unaware of the channel, providing there's plenty of funding.
Are there any countries you wanna visit
on myth vision business?
I'd love to go to Greece.
I'd love to go and see Europe.
I'd really enjoy going to like ancient Athens
and Corinth and all of these areas,
not only where Paul was
and also where these ancient mystery religions
and various Greco-Roman deities and stuff.
And I really wanna do that after my trip to Israel
with James Tabor, because he took us to places
in the North up in the Galilee that really made me go,
wow, there's a blend of both the Jewish world
and the Greek-Roman world and they marry,
they literally kiss in the North where we were at.
When you start going South,
I'm not saying that there weren't occupations down there,
but it doesn't seem like they really were wanting to dwell
in the desert, biblical Tamar.
I mean, they had fortresses, but it wasn't like
that's where they really wanted to be.
So I would love to go and explore areas like that.
I don't know, I'd have to put a list together
of various places I would love to go see,
but I do plan on making trips in the future.
I'd love to go to Egypt and see the pyramids,
especially after talking to Karakuni, the Egyptologist,
about Osiris, the resurrection motif in Osiris.
And I also have courses coming up with her.
In fact, later this month, I'm recording one or two courses
with her, be on the lookout.
So there's so much coming.
I haven't even told y'all what we got coming.
I got stuff on the stove cooking.
I got more coming with Dr. James Tabor too.
You're gonna wanna stay tuned, just stay tuned.
This is the infancy of myth vision.
If I thought we were already on our roll,
we just started, baby.
We haven't even really begun.
It's gonna get really hype over time.
So we're growing, we're growing.
Hold on, I've got multitasking going on.
All those ones, thank you for pressing one in the chat,
showing me that you love the live stream
and that you're just showing us some love.
YouTube notices stuff like that.
So if you're a content creator,
engagement with your audience is number one.
You gotta get them hype.
You gotta make sure that they're attentive.
And sometimes when YouTube notices that,
they see it through, wow,
a lot of people are commenting right now.
So type one, press enter, let the YouTube gods see us
and know that we exist, okay?
Thank you.
Nick McFarland, McFarland, forgive me, McFarland.
I apologize if I butchered that.
Hi, any chance you start uploading episodes
to the RSS feed again,
would love to be able to listen to myth vision on the go.
Also, you must have Dr. Richard Askov on at some point.
I've never heard of that scholar.
So I will write this down,
but if you could email me,
you'd be saving me a nightmare of information
that I always have to do.
Richard Askov.
I don't know what their expertise is in,
but another thing I'm trying to do
because I'm a one man army is get,
I've gotta figure out my wife stretched thin,
I'm stretched thin.
I've gotta figure out on getting someone
who can help me to get the uploads from YouTube
to our RSS feed and keep the podcast side going
because people do like just listening
and not watching necessarily all the videos.
They wanna be able to walk like you said,
or their truck drivers and they're driving
or they're on the road and they can't look at their phone.
They wanna hear what's going on
and I wanna try and do that.
So good reminder,
and we'll try and put something like that together
to make it happen.
Thank you so much for the support.
Really appreciate it.
Wayne Rossi, Bart Ehrman's new book, Armageddon Says,
Jesus and Revelation is different from the gospels,
violent instead of loving.
What do you think of his take?
Well, I must say up front,
while I definitely promoted the course
that he did on Left Behind,
I have not listened because I bought it on Audible.
I have not listened to the book yet.
It is on Audible.
But in my interview with him, he said the same thing.
So what I personally thought when he was saying that is,
the way I would word it is,
Jesus and Revelation is far more violent, obviously.
And I imagine, because he's got the sword,
he's coming back to violently destroy the enemy.
So the author of Revelation,
John on the Island of Patmos, whoever this person was,
is portraying Jesus as this really hardcore king
who's gonna come and annihilate wickedness and evil,
specifically the Roman Empire,
and anyone who commits adultery fornication with her.
So those Jews that are participating
and are on the side of Rome,
they are a part of that as well,
which they wouldn't be considered true Jews,
I would imagine by this author.
The violent Jesus that I personally would say
is really the apocalyptic side.
What is supposed to happen when the Son of Man comes?
If we read the Gospel Mark, plug for James' course,
read Mark as Mark, it's an apocalyptic document.
But if we're reading him saying that the Son of Man will come,
it's not Jesus, but that the Son of Man as Daniel, sorry,
Son of Man, what's he supposed to do when he comes?
Pat everyone on the back and hand out flowers?
Here's your balloon.
He's supposed to come and destroy the enemy.
So I can't, I can get on board with saying
the language of Revelation is far more violent
and Jesus is not as portrayed that way in the Gospel,
especially as the Gospels proceed to go further.
He's less, I would say, violent sounding,
but there's still that apocalypticism voice
that I don't think can be silenced.
And this is also for me why I think a historical dude
that exists, I think, makes the most sense,
even if we're dealing with historical fictions
as the Gospels.
So I would say, yes, I agree that Revelation paints Jesus
this way, more violent, but there's still that apocalypticism.
I would say in Jesus that when the Son of Man comes,
when the end happens, God ain't playing that game.
He's bringing death to the enemy, judging them.
And of course, the righteous will be resurrected
to eternal or everlasting life or whatever,
seated on thrones and whatnot in the kingdom of God.
That's my take, Wayne.
I don't know how you feel about it.
I'm just, this is why I said to him in my interview,
Bart, what do you think about the notion of the kingdom
of God that's supposed to come in and God's supposed to rule?
God's supposed to also destroy the enemies.
Anyone who reads scripture, the LXX or the Hebrew Bible
will tell you, like, he's supposed to come in
and wipe out the enemies and everyone who's righteous
and on the right side, you know,
they're gonna be the good guys.
This is kind of the late Second Temple Judaism,
apocalypticism notion I see in Jesus.
And that's not gonna be pretty
for the ones who don't side with them.
So on a scale from one to 10,
if Revelation is a 10 on violence,
I would say Jesus is a five.
He expects it, but he may not be out here saying
what Revelation might be saying.
Don't know, maybe more.
Maybe six or seven, I don't know.
But that is why I also see harm in some of the teachings
that you might see in the Gospels.
Thank you.
Wayne, I hope that answered your question.
I appreciate the super chat.
George says Bart is right.
And I'm not saying he's wrong.
I'm thinking what's being highlighted more
is the violence in Revelation.
Now, Derek, it is I who is the most humble.
Thank you for that.
Oh yeah, that's true.
That's true, Kip.
The most humble person on the internet is that guy.
Gary Shikoski.
Hi, Derek.
I spend endless hours on your channel here.
Do you know anyone that is an expert
on Ellen G. White's shenanigans
with the Seventh Day Adventist Cult?
You know what?
I need to do some research.
I know Dr. Table would know somebody
because he is all over this apocalypticism,
but I guarantee you if I can't,
Dr. Table, if you're hearing me
and you're still not asleep
after being worn out from the flight,
please see if you can help put me in touch
with somebody who might be a scholar on this
or if you yourself knows a lot about this subject,
I would love to have you come in.
I've heard about her,
plagiarizing works and stuff,
but she was a smart woman.
So I'd be curious to dive deep into Ellen G. White.
So thank you for that, Gary.
I don't know anybody off the top of my head,
but I know experts I guarantee you who do
or at least can steer me in the right direction
to make that happen.
And by the way, if you have any specific topics
related to her or something that piques your interest,
you can email me, I'll do my best.
Sometimes you have to keep bugging me to remind me.
Literally, I don't know how I'm still on here
and Kip hasn't drove to my house
and kicked me off the computer to force me
as the taskmaster that he is to edit his course,
his ancient Israelite religion course,
the real true ancient Israelite religion.
But maybe he's out of gas.
Maybe it would take him a little too long
to get down here.
Kip says, Joshua Bowen and I will be on secular soapbox
on 17 of April talking about the documentary hypothesis.
Good stuff.
So you would might wanna listen to them
on their particular view on this one
for the question that was asked earlier
about the documentary hypothesis.
I would refer you to these gentlemen here.
They know a thing or two more than I do,
especially on this subject.
Captain Call, what would consider to be
the most convincing reason
why the New Testament is fictional?
For me, it's the Olivet discourse passages.
The most convincing reason
why the New Testament is fictional.
So I would wanna rephrase that and say the gospels,
why I see that they're highly fictional.
And I would say they're historical fiction
because you can find verisimilitude
to historical setting, people, places and things.
That doesn't mean what's written actually happened.
So there are some things that I might say,
hey, that could be the case.
There's something probably there.
A memory could be there.
I don't know.
And I don't know how we would know how to know that
with any confidence without having corroborating sources
that say this and not thinking that the gospels themselves
or acts are using Josephus.
Very complicated, difficult thing to figure out.
But for me, most convincing reason to think that,
I would say looking at a lot of the material
that's legendary and seeing that material,
that topos, that kind of genre
in clearly things we say is legendary or fictional.
Let me give you an example.
I always do this.
I don't know if you guys watch me.
The Lives of Caesars, Suetonius.
When I'm reading Suetonius,
and I get to that's my favorite part in this book.
Here it is, where's that?
94th, I think it is, The Divine Augustus.
Yeah, talking about his birth narrative,
talking about how his mom,
I mean, there's poor tense to his birth, the whole nine,
right?
It's so obvious, even Delcey Allison Jr., great scholar,
but in my estimation is somewhat conservative in many ways,
but great scholar.
He's like the birth narratives, completely legend.
He does not even pretend that there's a memory there.
So when you see the birth narrative,
and I read Suetonius, and I go,
Augustus did not have a snake.
Swirl up to his mom, get her pregnant.
There's all these poor tense.
This is what actually happened.
The same year he was to be raised,
the Senate said no child should be reared this year.
They're trying to kill all the little kids,
just like you see in Matthew.
You're like, it walks like a duck, it talks like a duck.
The ascension of Jesus in Acts, that looks like Romulus.
This is the silliness that I had in that conversation
with Michael Jones, that really made me go,
come on, come on.
He was trying to say, just because you find fiction
outside of the New Testament, and it looks like it walks
like a duck, talks like a duck, et cetera, et cetera,
and then you get to the New Testament,
doesn't mean that this is a duck.
And I'm going, in his video really made me go,
come on, when he said, it doesn't even put a dent in it.
If I'm reading fiction here, fiction there,
fiction here, fiction there, and I see all this fiction,
and then I get to the New Testament,
but this might not be fiction, and I lean that,
no, no, no, no, no, you have to take this
on a case by case basis that this itself isn't,
why are you needing to make that a case by case basis
for someone to be divinely birthed as a virgin?
What the heck?
I mean, talk to me in the chat.
Let me know what you think.
Say amen if you think that I'm onto something here.
It seems obvious to me, and even Dr. Allison,
who's a Christian, says it's obvious.
Apologists need to stop.
That's saying a lot, right?
So it's those two things that really jump out at me.
Obviously people resurrecting from the dead
and walking around and looking at stuff
like the tombs were opened and the saints came out
of their graves and went and visited Jerusalem.
Even Mike Lacona goes, hey, that didn't literally happen.
And then he gets fired for it at his conservative university
or his job, wherever he worked at the time.
So some things leap out at you
that are just so blatantly obvious
that Christians themselves are like, yo, cut it out.
Stop saying that literally happened.
And so when you do that, if it's there, what else is there?
It's the same thing what I do with Dennis McDonald.
When you look at his mimesis criticism,
you see this whole pig narrative, pig demons, legions
being cast into the sea and drowning.
And you see his comparison to Cersei
and Polyphemus, the Cyclops.
The very clear ones that I'm sold on,
I think he's onto something here.
You have to ask yourself, once you see it,
what else is there?
Is there more?
There could be and there may not be,
but as you start chipping away at that,
you start realizing all of these other things,
the turning water into wine.
I know there's a way to rationalize this
because they had jars where you had two compartments in it
and you could cover a little hole
that wasn't visible much to the naked eye
and only water would come out.
But when you release the hole,
the pressure to the compartment is gone
and only wine comes out.
So it closes the other shaft or whatever.
That's not what we're reading in John chapter one.
I don't take that to be a rationalist approach.
This is more Dionysus-like.
And I'm convinced that didn't happen either.
And so is Delcy Allison, Jr.
when he was reading it saying,
ah, that wedding at Cana, where did that come from
with this whole turning water into wine thing?
He thinks that that's legend.
So sometimes you can read Christian scholars
like Dr. Allison and get a good sense
like someone who's trying to be as faithful as they can
as a believer, but also be honest with the data
as much as they can.
You can go to them and find out.
Now you can go to others who aren't believers
or people who are more on the critical side
and read and go, okay, they're in agreement
with the ones that are trying like Del Allison,
but they'll go even further on some things.
And you wonder, maybe they're right.
I don't know.
That's my two though.
Romulus ascension compared to Jesus ascension
and birth narratives.
It's so clear to me.
You could get into the resurrection narratives as well
in my opinion, but there you have it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
We've got a Baton fan in the chat, Man Bear Pig.
I'm still trying to figure out the percentage
of how much bear and pig you are
because after that polyphemous Cersei story
and then Jesus with the demoniac,
I'm really, you know, it seems believable
that you are part bear, pig and man.
Since that's a literal historical narrative.
Stop scamming man.
Again, your channel deserves many more subscribers.
When you have someone with a big following on,
maybe ask if they can upload the interview
to their channel if they are happy to for better exposure.
That's happened.
And I don't try to make anybody do anything
they don't wanna do.
That might be why we're also just growing
at the pace that we grow, but I do a lot of things.
And I noticed that what YouTube really wants
is what you guys want, what the audience wants
more than anything.
They want you to just duplicate that material
and stick with that vein.
I'll give you an example.
My buddy Andrew Gold on the edge with Andrew Gold,
he started his channel.
He had like 14,000 subscribers.
Like maybe it was 30, I don't know.
He had like less than me.
And he found that when he did content
on the Queen and the Prince and all the crap going on,
the drama, and then when he found out
that people really love Scientology
and Tom Cruise specifically,
he really put his efforts into that.
He's got way more subscribers than I do right now,
but he focused on that topic
because that's what the audience wanted.
MythVision, I tried to be an ear to the audience,
but simultaneously this is like my authentic journey.
I can't get burned out of doing what I do
if I love what I do and what I'm talking about.
I'm not just gonna talk about something
because everyone wants to watch it
and it makes it popular and it makes money.
I wanna do it because I love it.
And I can't say that he doesn't love what he's doing,
but it's like, I would probably get tired
if I had to talk about a specific thing too long
all the time to get your attention, if that makes sense.
So it's an authentic growth that is purely,
I would even say Rome wasn't built in one day, right?
Solid, it was built solid brick by brick.
I'm not here to rush this growth.
I know the people that are gonna tune in and subscribe
are like die-hard solidified fans of what we're doing
and wanting to continue to educate the world.
So, but wouldn't hurt.
It wouldn't hurt to me to have big channels come on
and do it.
I know that Professor Dave has done it for me.
I don't know if I saw any growth from that though.
Dr. Tabor says, I can probably help get Finkelstein.
And am I pronouncing that right?
You're gonna have to correct me later, James.
If I'm pronouncing his last name properly,
I wanna say Finkelstein, but I could be wrong.
But yes, please help me to get him on.
When our shoemaker in Hoiland coming back on,
I need to schedule shoemaker later this year sometime in May.
He said to link up with him.
I could probably contact Hoiland
and make something happen as well.
But my schedule is ridiculous.
I'm so swamped with things and I have scheduled stuff out.
It'll have to be months down the road
before I can actually do anything.
Because you know me, I'm not gonna do a remote one anymore.
If I'm getting Hoiland on, we're doing it in person.
And we're gonna make it high quality.
We both, oh Sentinel apologizes.
We both should read Paul together.
PSF price.
Thank you for the support.
I appreciate the super chat, Sentinel, Rob.
We both should read Paul together.
We could, we could.
I mean, if I ever had the time,
and maybe I'll free up someday where we could do that.
But we'll probably have different takeaways
on how we're reading the letters of Paul.
Constellation Pegasus, check out Rabbi Mainz Friedman.
I'm subscribed to that YouTube channel.
I've seen his stuff coming.
This nutcase says he saw aliens, I'm not kidding.
He has to be in Kabbalah or enjoying some good smoke
or something.
Look, you can't talk about everyone who says
they see aliens in a bad way.
And I'll tell you why.
My brother thinks, and you can think in my opinion,
the internet and the sensation surrounding
that sociological approach that people think
they saw something that they can't identify.
Now everybody's thinking it's this alien
or it's this or it's that.
My brother's on the alien train.
I don't know if you remember my interview back in the day
where I had Kurt show up, but maybe someday
I'll get him on, ghosts, demons, aliens,
like all of this stuff, my brother sold on it.
And I can't, like I try to get him to work
through being critical about something
and saying, what about this?
Have you thought about that?
What about that?
And he gets very resistant to being critical
on these claims, but I haven't seen a video of him
pop up in my feed where he was saying something like that.
I usually don't even watch the videos that he puts out.
I've seen a couple in the past, but never really watched it.
Dr. Sheryl says, Ms. Vision, did you get many
to sign up for your trip to Israel next spring?
It may not be next spring.
So this is a good point to plug.
We don't have all the details, number one.
It might be next fall, I'm not sure, but I know for a fact
we don't wanna go around the time of Passover
and we don't wanna go around the time of Good Friday, Easter.
So it is insanely busy around that time.
As far as the package of cost and all of that,
I have no information on that yet.
We're gonna get to that and nobody signed up.
I just wanted to gauge YouTube, the community on my Patreon,
the community on YouTube, on my Facebook, Twitter,
wherever people might have seen it.
And just to see how many would be interested
in making something like that happen.
But I can tell you, it will be game changing.
It will be amazing, whatever we do.
That trip stuck with me.
In fact, it was so impactful.
When I got back, I was cooking my own breakfast
because the kosher breakfast over there was amazing.
I was cooking my own breakfast.
I was wanting to go to the gym all the time
because we walked all over the place and saw the Holy Land.
There's a lot of really cool sites
that it changes your perception of your research,
pertaining to all the things we talk about here on MythVision
when you get there in person.
That would be great, Metatron.
I really appreciate that.
That's right, Kip.
Kip, listen, Taskmaster, you gotta get working on that thing.
You gotta get steppin' on that, man.
It's up to you on whether or not we figure out
something sooner than later.
Check that, chats.
Dr. Tabor, okay, thank you, Dr. Tabor,
in the house, he's got my back.
Would be great if you could create a Bible scholar,
get together conference, open to public,
roundtables, and different subjects.
Appreciate your work.
We might actually do something like that at some point.
It's all about the win, logistics, cost, the whole nine,
and it all will have to play out on when
and how we can make something like that happen.
A lot of people do these down in Texas,
so you're planting the seed, you're planting the seed,
and I'm gonna work on it over time.
Captain Call says, what would you consider
to be the number one reason why you don't trust Jesus?
For me, it's the Olivet discourse passages,
so trust Jesus.
Well, first of all, I would say the number one reason,
I'm not sure what Jesus actually said or didn't say,
so if we're saying trusting the actual Jesus, the guy,
the historical Jesus, if you take that approach
and you think that there was a man behind
some of these parables or there might be some echo
of an apocalyptic figure, I would say,
well, first of all, what are we reading,
and are we reading actually what he said?
These are questions that I have,
because I think that some scholars
have made really strong cases to think
that maybe Jesus didn't say some of these parables.
Oftentimes, it sounds like they're post-war
70 AD type parables.
In other cases, I would go with that apocalyptic stuff,
so it would be like if I read any apocalyptic person today,
someone in the Jehovah's Witness community, for example,
that says the end is coming soon,
when you hear them thinking this stuff's all gonna happen
soon and it doesn't, their credibility,
it really diminishes their credibility.
Remember the guy on the news, what was his name?
The famous one, like 2011 or something,
it could have been a different year,
but he publicly had Christians who followed him,
sell all they owned, the same thing happened
in the 1844, the Millerite Movement,
but they sold everything and really believed Jesus,
was coming back, now he didn't show up,
then he pushed it off five or six more months
and then he didn't show up.
You really have to ask yourself,
like, should I trust this person?
And so, I tend to think Jesus was apocalyptic
because he sandwiched between John the Baptist and Paul,
and Paul was clearly apocalyptic.
I would think John the Baptist was apocalyptic,
and that would be my major reason
for why I wouldn't trust the words coming from Jesus,
if we grant that the words we're reading
are words that go back to him.
And that's another reason, right?
Like, do we even know what this guy is saying
or what he said?
Anyway, Sikhi Trises Derek,
you are always welcome to Germany.
I have, the only time I visited Germany
was my way back from Kuwait.
I went in 2010 to do contract work in Afghanistan,
and we went through Germany on our way back to the States.
Oh, Megan, we're getting more courses.
Don't you worry.
I promise.
I promise.
Actually, you can ask Dr. Tabor,
hold on, we've got him on the schedule here,
making this public knowledge, you get the inside scoop.
In May, the second week of May,
I've got it blocked off the eighth through the 12th,
Dr. Tabor's coming over and we're doing courses.
So thank you for reminding me to mention this.
We're gonna do two or three more courses,
and one of them I know is gonna really grab your attention,
Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So you're gonna wanna stay tuned.
I'm excited about that one.
I really am.
I really am.
I need to email John Walton.
I'd be curious to get his take on Genesis.
I don't know if he would join me
because he is coming from the Christian background,
and sometimes if they know who I am
or what I do here on Mythision,
they may or may not want to join me,
but I don't see why they wouldn't
because I would just give him the mic.
I'm not here to be critical.
I wanna hear his information about Genesis
and learn from him what he has discovered.
So I would be happy to email them.
Remind me if you can, JS, with an email
to send out one to Dr. John Walton.
How about a video on the weird stuff
in the Babylonian Talmud?
Burning black cat guys to see demons is interesting.
That would make for a heck of a show.
And I know just the guy, Dr. Justin Sledge,
who might know quite a bit about this stuff,
the strange magical superstitions
that we find within Jewish rabbinic writings and such.
Constellation, thank you for that.
I really appreciate the support
and you always being in the chat.
It means a lot to me to see you all
throwing ones at me and showing me
that you appreciate what we do here.
All these ones, it just helps to type nonsense.
Hell, just smash the keys on your keyboard.
Someone's gonna do that, I guarantee you.
If we see someone speaking in tongues,
I'll know it's from you.
Uh-oh, uh-oh, we got trouble in the hizzy.
We got all the doctors in the house today.
We got Dr. Death, Dr. Mott, Dr. Tabor.
Who else is in here?
We got Dr. Cheryl.
I mean, how many more doctors do we have in here?
Someone have a heart attack so we can have a doctor
take care of you.
Most Christian channels is nothing but nonsense in chat.
Interesting.
I try not to get bogged down when I am like working
and go and like get lost in chats and debates online
and stuff.
Usually if I think someone's trolling,
I'll block on social media.
Real quick here, I need to check something.
Oh, okay.
So Marama and Putin actually wrote me
for the Ghost of Mythvision.
For those who know, the linguist scholar on the Quran,
Arabic, and of course he's come to talk about Islam,
the Quran and all that.
Just told me that he watched my Gabriel Said video
and said it was fire.
Sorry.
Do you live in a town in the US
where houses are all the same?
I don't think so.
My mom's house is radically different from mine
and she lives right down the street.
So no, I don't.
But if you're talking to me, stop scamming man.
Hi, Derek.
Have you heard of the Ahmadiyya?
The are a little like a Muslim version of Seventh Day Adventist?
I haven't.
Also, many are in Pakistan and face dire human rights abuses
and are second class citizens at best.
I have not heard of this.
What in the world?
No, but it wouldn't shock me.
There's all sorts of stuff going on in the world
that you can lose your mind watching
and finding out about online.
It's a sad situation.
Like I saw a video not long ago about slavery.
Like today's slavery and it ain't good.
I'll put it that way.
It's bad.
And I'm thinking to myself, wow.
Wouldn't I love to see that completely removed
from the planet?
Like completely.
We have softer but still forms of it.
I guess you'd say is softer the right word
with prison systems?
Yeah, it's tough.
So I'd love to see these categories
that we've created, these walls we've divided ourselves
in making in our minds dissolve.
I'd love to see those dissolve
and us come closer together.
But is that wishful thinking?
I don't think it's completely wishful thinking
since we've been making better changes in many ways.
I hope it gets better.
I do.
But is it worth watching?
Constellation Pegasus is back.
How about a cartoon intro with Kip Davis
and the Iron Maiden song Wasted Years playing?
All of us have wasted years
because of religion.
You know what?
You brought up something.
I might need to share my screen to show you.
My camera's in my way.
It's behind you.
Bear with me for one second here.
I'm gonna tease you with something
that you will not see anywhere else but here.
Let's see if I can open it.
So obviously this is how far I've gotten on the Kip course.
I need a drag and drop seven and eight in here.
I don't know why I haven't done that yet.
But with Dr. Kip, where is his folder?
Here it is.
On the YouTube ones, I actually have his story.
We recorded his story and it is so good.
I can't wait to upload all of these videos
that you're seeing.
This is the secret stash, ladies and gentlemen.
I mean, I've got stuff from our trip to Israel
with Dr. Tabor, all of these folders full of information.
I am just overwhelmed with things to do, right?
I've got two courses with Robin, Faith Walsh, one on Paul.
These are all Paul and Gospels.
So here is the one on the Gospels.
Here is the one on Paul.
I'm gonna be editing all this stuff.
There's just so much behind the scenes to do.
And sometimes after you sit at this desk
and you work for a while,
there's this thing called insanity that comes on you
and you feel like ripping your hair out of your head
because you're just like, I need to go on a walk.
I need to go to the river.
Kids, let's go to the trampoline place and let them jump.
Let's just go somewhere outside and let the air come in
because it's a lot.
And I have to do it.
And you gotta give yourself a break.
Sometimes I'll just go take a shower or distract myself.
But when it comes out, I promise you, you're gonna love it.
There's my promise.
So thank you so much, Constellation.
I appreciate that, really, really do.
Ezra says, if I may ask,
what is the aim of this channel?
Education.
Number one, education, I would say,
and also betterment of society to try and help people
to see maybe how some things aren't really true.
Some things aren't stuff we should behave like or practice.
So I would say though, education does that, right?
I would think that if more people were educated,
it would solve a lot of the problems we deal with
in the world.
James, oh, bringing up the violent stuff.
There is some tough stuff in Paul, isn't there?
Paul is expecting a pretty radical change.
Your book on Paul, it really does show that.
And your book on Paul inspired me, Tabor,
to actually dive deeper into Paul,
the cosmic family and the cosmic transformation,
all that really interesting.
Especially since I was a full preterist,
thinking that the end did happen
and found a way to try and rationalize all that,
you came in in very clear language,
just made that fall apart.
It was really clear.
Paul's not talking about 70 AD.
And you know that Dr. Tabor worked, was there,
with all that stuff that happened with Waco,
you know we need to harass him in the chat right now
and say, we love you, Dr. Tabor,
we wanna hear the story about Waco.
We have to get your story.
Cause he directly worked with David Koresh.
Like he was trying to help solve the problem
of what happened down there.
I hope everybody will kind of leave him a little word
here in the chat, talk to him, let him know.
We wanna hear you on MythVision.
We gotta get your story.
I think Derek missed it.
Joel Edmond Anderson has written his own Bible translation
and has toiled it after himself.
Oh, and it is awful.
I did not know this.
I did not know this, Kip.
Joe, can you interview with Dr. Gregg?
You did this earlier.
You gotta email me, my friend.
Please email me at my email
and that is in the description.
All right, I'm scrolling down here.
I gotta catch up to these super chats.
I just wanna show everybody that
when I get overwhelmed here,
I try to get everybody and show you attention
and make sure that I pay attention to as many people as
possible.
Oh, so he's not in here anymore.
Dang it.
I thought he'd be in here.
I guess he's having MythVision lag now.
He's gotta rest.
Constellation Pegasus, Ellen G. White
is one of the greatest apologist ever,
devastated because Jesus didn't return in 1844,
but damn, she and others kept it going.
Cognitive dissonance, baby.
That's what I think.
Thank you for that constellation.
Chris McCarthy, at some point,
would you be interested in principle
in a presentation from a professional astronomer
on astronomy for MythVisionaries?
I'd be curious to see how you pitch it.
Email it to me.
I'd like to hear what you're offering
or what you think, if that's you
that would be interested in presenting something like that,
but email me.
For sure.
Thank you for the super chat.
I wonder why the significance of 1054,
is there some type of esoteric meaning
behind the numbers there, my friend?
Or is your name Gamatria for something else?
Everybody in the chat,
let them who have wisdom calculate the name,
Chris McCarthy.
Thank you so much.
Wade Rogers, we're aware of the influence
of Greco-Roman literature in the New Testament.
What are some examples that show up in the Old Testament?
Example, the staff of Asclepius as the healing staff
in numbers 21, five through nine.
Influence of Greco-Roman on the Old Testament?
Because that's a harder thing, right?
So we're dealing with late Second Temple Judaism material,
if at best, if we're gonna get Roman era material,
but Greek ideas, one could argue that the story
of King David fighting Solomon,
sorry, King David fighting Goliath,
that the armor that they're wearing
in the kind of situation in combat there
could look Greek in nature.
I think Russell Gamirkin argues this.
I'm trying to think though,
because Roman, this would be a good question
to ask someone like Kip or Matthew Munger,
especially since they're Dead Sea Scroll Scholars
in the literature of Dead Sea
and late Second Temple Judaism that we find
in some of the material in the Bible,
maybe some of the late stuff,
like does Daniel have influence?
I don't think even Daniel has Roman influence at all.
And we're thinking Second Century BCE.
So Old Testament, I wouldn't put Roman in there.
Greek ideas, I'm sure there's plenty out there.
It's just where.
So the best example I can think of,
you know what, you make me wanna pull off some of my,
some of my Old Testament commentaries back here
from some of the scholars that I have.
I'm trying to think.
I'm not like a brain fart here.
I mean, I keep going back to Russell Gamirkin
because he's the Greek guy trying to find the connections
to the Hebrew Bible.
And I'm not so sure or know
if he's correct on some of these things,
but he even thinks that Plato's Tamaeus
influenced the Genesis narrative.
That the cosmogony there is somehow influenced
by Greek Plato's Tamaeus.
I don't know.
He thinks the sons of God there in Genesis 6
plays into the demigod stories within the Greek world.
I don't know.
There's some scholars who think that Moses
with the golden calf coming down from the mountain
and the earth swallowing them up and all of that,
all of those that participated with the golden calf die
just like in Odysseus story from Homer,
all the men who eat the calf, the sun God's cattle die.
And there are some classicists that think
maybe there's some awareness to whoever wrote
the story in the Exodus with that
of Homer's Iliad or the Odyssey, specifically the Odyssey.
So I don't know.
I really don't know.
I need to close this discord
because I feel like this beeping noise is showing up.
I don't know for sure the best example
because Russell would be very on the
not the consensus view on this.
And then there's some who think, no, there's no influence.
And then that would be the alternative extreme view
in my opinion.
So maybe ask one of the academics I could ask
in a future episode with Kip or somebody
that might have better answers for that.
All right, moving on, moving on.
Good night says Derek with his youth pastor vibes.
I'm gonna take that as a derogatory slant toward me.
Okay, good night, please.
Kidding.
Ken, you're not lying.
You are not lying, my friend.
Constellation Pegasus again.
Get Jesus back on the channel.
I'd like his opinion on 1844 and 1914.
So for those who don't know,
I interviewed the guy from Australia
who believes he's Jesus.
By the way, Constellation,
this guy cannot stand me now.
If I went to email him,
I may not even get a response back.
I wouldn't mind interviewing him again,
but I doubt he would even give me a chance.
He was trying to, passive aggressively,
it was really, really weird what he was doing in the emails.
So I ended up going at the dude.
I was like, you cut the bullshit.
I kept it real with this guy.
Like, you're not gonna sit here
and try to act like I did anything wrong.
And all because in that interview,
I put two Jesus statues just for aesthetic reasons,
for people who watched the episode on the side.
And he went out of his way
to like attack my character and my motives and all of this.
And I was like, dude, when we talked on the phone,
I told you I don't believe you're Jesus.
I told you that I don't think that what you're saying is true,
but I was gonna be friendly with you.
And anyone who watched that episode knows that I was.
But he came back with some weird stuff.
So it was him and his wife, Mary Magdalene.
I don't know what her original name was anymore,
but she thinks that she's the reincarnation
or the second coming of Mary Magdalene.
And he is the Jesus from the first century.
And so because they both were emailing me,
I emailed her back and I asked her, I said,
you do know you're not the first woman in history.
I did some research on this guy.
You're not the first woman in history
that he says has false memories
of being this previous Bible character and stuff.
It goes deep into this false memory thing
from the 80s and 70s and satanic panic
and all of that plays a role
into this Jesus guy from Australia.
That went south real quick.
Cause anyway, that guy's a cult leader, big time.
It still would be interesting to get his take
because he's so full of shit.
But anyway, what do you do?
Kip says, I gotta get back to the gym too.
You're not kidding.
Yes, constellation is right.
I did.
Someone said, scrolling, scrolling, scrolling.
Harold Camping, thank you for those
who finally I'm catching up to where I was.
Rosa Rule, Alan Berg.
Yep, you are 100% right on that.
Good to see you here, Masoud.
Chris Hansen, Chrissy, who is this poser?
And what has he done with the most dapper Kip Davis?
Even that podunk, Kentucky and Bennett is better.
Laugh out loud.
Love you, Derek.
Love you too, Chrissy.
Hey, thank you for joining in the chat, working on,
you're publishing things left and right.
Mind blowing.
I really appreciate you coming in here
and showing some love and calling me out
for the poser that I am, you know what I mean?
I really appreciate it.
Everybody show Chrissy some love in the chat.
Scrolling down, scrolling down, scrolling down.
Again, Rosa's making sure that I'm not an idiot anymore.
Thank you, Rosa.
Wade Rogers says, if the historical Jesus
didn't raise from the dead,
how did that idea come about between 30 AD
and the time of Paul's writings
or about 55 AD?
Great question.
And I was hoping that someone would ask this question
because I'm such a nerd.
And the reason why is I would hope
that people will read this book
to get at least an idea about people missing
after they die, their bodies go missing,
but they also oftentimes appear after death,
whatever form the death may be.
Sometimes it might be drowning in a river.
Sometimes it might be lightning bolts strike them.
If it's Zeus, sometimes it might be in a battle,
in a war, like in a war.
Sometimes they're buried after death in a cave
or in a grave in some ways.
Depends on the situation, but Richard C. Miller,
I'm actually seeing him later this month.
At the end of this month,
I'm going to interview him in California
and get the courses with Egyptologist Karakuni.
But there's over a hundred examples in chapter two.
I mean, you name it, he goes through Asclepius
in their alphabetical order, two daughters of Zeus.
There's a whole chart in here,
but chapter two goes through samples of translation fables
and within them, people believed
that these people were still alive, still existed,
and they would tell these stories.
They even had eyewitness testimony
about these supposed people existing
and appearing to them and whatnot on a road,
a Roman road or appearing to them in a certain situation,
whatever it may be.
Even Kelsus talks about Asclepius appearing to people
in some way, shape, or form where they believe
after Asclepius is gone, he shows up in the flesh
and they're like, it's really Asclepius.
So you think about this and you go,
why did people believe that someone resurrected from the dead?
Why did people believe that any of the other tropes
that are out there may or may not have happened?
Why did they believe that?
And so I would say, if you're dealing with the zeitgeist,
it's like, why do people believe that Bigfoot
is really roaming around in the woods?
There's a sense of mystery.
It also helps that we have no way to falsify it.
I would say it's probably a good thing.
As Robin Faith-Wall said, I said,
what happened to Jesus' body?
And she said, early Christians themselves
were wondering these questions and weren't really sure
because by the time that this stuff's being written down
and by the time that they're engaging,
they have no way to falsify or prove any of it.
And so I also would say that the idea of resurrection
in Jewish thought was already a religious motif
that they had in their thinking.
So if their leader is preaching the end is nigh
and the Son of Man is coming, the Daniel Son of Man,
the kingdom of God must happen soon
and they're on the edge of their seats
thinking this is any moment now,
then they may, through some form of cognitive dissonance
or something, and this is all speculative,
but it's just various ways to try and answer this question,
they may have been so primed to believe
that this was going to happen,
that if they even thought that they heard Jesus
or saw Jesus or something,
then he must have been alive
and he must be alive, resurrected in some way.
So stories and narratives about Jesus happen later.
If we knew Paul wrote in the 50s
and he literally detailed that Jesus rose from the dead,
et cetera, you still have a window of 40s, 50s, whatever,
you still have a decade or more.
And many scholars like Richard C. Miller point out
that legends can build in a day.
Like we have no way to really say,
well, that couldn't have happened
because it's been only 10 years,
it's only been 15, 20 years, that doesn't work.
When we know when Caesars died
and they had apotheosis celebrations
and the Senate would say
that this person had become a God,
we know that two or three days is all it took
and they had eyewitnesses coming in saying,
I saw him, but he's dead, I saw him.
I saw him as sin in the Phoenix,
whatever the example might be.
And so people believed it.
You're dealing with a superstitious time
and we still have that today.
So these are my little two cents, Wade.
I don't know, wish we had a time machine
and could answer it, right?
So that's my two cents.
And the idea that Mark literally has an empty tomb
as part of that narrative symbolizes to me now,
after learning about what Richard C. Miller writes
and Robin Faith-Walsh agrees, Dennis McDonald,
all the guys that are more in the classes aside,
they recognize this.
And even Delcey Allison, Jr. said in my recent interview,
he said, look, the strongest case against the empty tomb
is that when the body is missing,
the person has become a God, that they're a God.
Jesus' body is missing in Mark
and he has become a God.
Literally, Christian faith says that, it's the point.
So if they go missing, they became a God.
And that is the missing body trope.
It's called translation fable in this book.
If you haven't purchased this book,
it is well worth the read, 50 bucks.
I highly recommend it, but it is dense.
It is very well written and you might need
like an encyclopedia in a dictionary or Google nearby
to just make sure you know the meaning of certain words
so you can really get what he's trying to argue.
That's what I had to do.
So I'm not speaking for everybody else that's dumb like me,
but I needed to look up certain words along the way
because it was very, very scholarly.
And I'm looking forward to interviewing them in person
to dive deeper.
Thank you for that.
Really appreciate that.
Hugo in the hizzy, what's up, Hugo?
Thank you for that super chat.
Wade speaking in tongues,
You know what I'm saying?
Can we get some translators in the house to have the gift?
Please let me know what I just said
because I don't even know.
Emne, good to see you.
What the heck?
A heck of a super chat instant apotheosis right now.
Okay, you've got it.
Would you agree that the whole Jesus narrative
was created and deified for the sole purpose
of controlling people?
So maybe there was a Jesus guy,
but not at all like how the Bible describes him.
There's two questions.
I have to parse this.
I don't think that the Jesus narrative necessarily
was created and he was deified for the sole purpose
of controlling people.
I think this is fan fables.
Fan art.
This is my opinion of the gospels.
I think they're historical fictions,
but they're fan literature,
people who are fans of Jesus
and they are competing in a world with many gods.
James Tabor's trip, when I went over there to the Holy Land,
we went up there to the galley
and we went to not Seferus, not Nazareth.
When we were in Maritime, nope, not Maritime,
it's Caesarea Philippi.
Sorry, I don't know why I couldn't get that out.
When we were up there,
I was standing where they have this cave.
I've got the footage, we still haven't edited this stuff.
There's a cave and there's like a spring that goes down.
And literally that was considered the portal to Hades
in the Greek world, Greek and Roman world.
I imagine Jews probably thought the same thing.
This was a portal into the underworld.
Right there at that spot where there's this big mountain
that we're right behind, there was a temple to Pan.
There was temples to other deities
and there was literally a Herodian temple
made for Augustus by Herod the Great right here.
The gospels portray whether this happened or not,
Jesus in this locale and he says to his disciples,
who do men say that I am?
Some say John the Baptist, some say,
or whatever, Elijah, some say this, some say the prophet.
And then he says, who do you say that I am?
Of course, Peter, not even knowing,
according to the text, what he's saying,
but only his father in heaven revealing this.
He says, you're the son of the living God.
Jesus is the son of God on the block
that you need to pay attention to.
Meaning anyone reading that
that may have known this geographical location
would have said he's better than Herod.
He's better than Pan, he is the one who is the king
who rules over the underworld.
Like you may have interpreted this way
due to the geographic location.
I might be reading into this a little,
but if you're there, you might think,
why is he standing on the block?
It's like a gang member standing on someone else's turf
and they're saying who's the real man
or whatever it might be in that location.
That's how I'm seeing it.
Jesus is competing and so the fan art has him
as our guy's better than yours.
Our guy's better than your Caesar,
our guy's better than your God's,
our guy is cooler, he's more compassionate, all of that.
So I think the motivation is to convince people who read it
that their guy's better.
I don't know, and I can't read into saying this
is to manipulate controlling people.
And that's my honest opinion about the first half
of this super chat.
The second part is so maybe there was a Jesus guy,
but not at all like how the Bible describes him.
Yes, I think so, but I can't rule out
that it's not at all like how the Bible describes him
because the recent book,
A Life in Class Conflict or Crisis
or the book by Robert J. Miles and James Crossley,
what they're doing is showing in the environment
in which Jesus was that here's this lower class
use the word peasant.
I don't really like the word,
but it may describe better the person
from the region of Nazareth outside of Seferus.
Seferus is this rising growing town
and where he is situated
and him constantly wanting to pay attention to the poor.
This makes a lot of sense in terms of someone
who would have been from a poor place
fighting against someone who's on the lakefront
calling it Tiberius when this was the sea of Galilee,
which it really wasn't,
it would have been just a lake in Galilee,
but there's this imposing from people who have money
on lower class society and Jesus is saying,
if you're rich, you're not getting into the kingdom of God.
I can't say that that's exactly what Jesus said,
but I tend to think there's a guy beneath this
and I can't prove it,
but that there's a guy beneath this
who's trying to speak up for those that don't have a voice
that are ruled by those who have money and are in charge.
That sounds like a real guy
that could have been there doing this.
So of course, I don't think he's walking on water.
Of course, I don't think he's born of a virgin.
Of course, I don't think he rose from the dead,
but I think that if you were poor in this time,
in this place, this man would have been a hero to you.
He would have been someone who's speaking on your behalf,
who has your values and hopes
that the kingdom of God really comes
and helps take the least and make them first,
the first, shall be last, et cetera.
And I imagine that this is what they would have hoped.
This is what makes me think this might go back to some dude
and it might be describing at least in some way a memory.
Can't prove it?
Don't even try.
I just think that it has some verisimilitude
to the situations that they were in.
And that's my thoughts.
So I would definitely say on the fantastical
and the miraculous, this is what you do
when you want your guy to be better.
That you gotta compete.
And in fact, John Dominic Crossen
debated a Muslim scholar.
I can't remember what the debate was about,
but John told me, he said if Muhammad lived
in the first century and he was not claiming,
or his followers were not claiming on his behalf,
that he was a son of God,
he would never even probably be written about,
but maybe in a passing note by Josephus.
He wouldn't have been a guy on a block.
He'd had no voice.
Nobody would have gave a crap.
Oh, you're not a son of God?
This guy, who's this guy?
He's nobody.
That's why Jesus needed to be what was in the zeitgeist
that was verisimilitude to the rest of the known world.
Imnag, I hope that you got your 50 out of that.
I don't know.
This is all my personal thoughts,
but I think I'm touching some kind of reality here
with what I'm saying.
So thank you for that huge super chat
and being a fan and being here in the chat, thank you.
Really appreciate that.
I'm scrolling down here.
I got to, got to.
God told me to say that, Chris, I knew it.
I knew that you were gonna say
that this is what you said, that God said.
I knew that.
I just didn't wanna say anything during the stream.
There's a lot of things that are going on right now
that I didn't wanna say that I know
as this continues to roll out in the stream.
Just stay tuned.
I'll make sure that you know too, trust me.
Humanist Reformation,
considering the coming of the Son of Man
before the disciples generation passed away
is the most harmonized passage throughout the New Testament.
Why would anyone think this was not preached by Jesus?
I am with you.
I am with you, humanist.
For me, I tend to think,
I don't think this is an invention on Mark.
I don't think this is an invention on Mark.
And I think it was my buddy,
what is his name again?
I can't even think.
I've got like mush in my brain right now.
Matthew Hartke, my buddy Matthew Hartke
who's big into the apocalypticism.
He's planning a trip up here to come visit me for a weekend
so we could do some recordings and hang out.
But Matthew Hartke brought it to my attention
I had never thought about the first Corinthians 15 passage
where it talks about the 500 witnesses.
He said, if you notice,
why are they saying there's 500 witnesses?
He said, he's convinced that the reason you put this number
out there is that the disciples didn't just have to be the 12.
It could be those who are following.
He's trying to tell people in Corinth,
look, not everyone died yet.
Look, there's people and some of them are still alive.
First Corinthians 15 says, and some of them are still alive.
Like you might want to read that and just say,
oh, well, these people are alive.
You can ask them like they're over here,
but he doesn't name them.
He doesn't give you any context of who they are.
He just says 500.
Matthew thinks this is a hint at what may go back
to actual Jesus since Paul's written before the gospels
about the coming of the kingdom and the Son of Man
and all that, which he might be right.
And I don't rule it out.
I think he might be onto something.
I can't come down too strongly on it,
but he might be onto something.
So that makes a lot of sense to me.
And I personally find the failure
of the apocalyptic expectation
and that it has to change throughout the New Testament
to becoming spiritualized
or to become in some way conditional
or it's way off into the future
because Jesus is trying to save as many people as he can
or our time is wrong.
God's time is different than our time.
Second Peter three.
I think all of those corrections,
if Jesus wasn't saying it early on
and that people didn't attribute this to Jesus,
I don't see why that doesn't make the most sense.
So again, historical Jesus, if there was one,
in my opinion, is actually more of a jab
at apologetics than mythicism
because there are some, very few,
believing mythicists in the world.
And if Jesus didn't exist
and you can say almost anything
and attribute it to this celestial type of dude or whatever,
it's actually easier to get away with making adjustments
on that kind of model, in my opinion.
But it would be embarrassing if this fell.
And cognitive dissonance,
I think would best explain the data.
But there's some stuff coming out
and I plan on doing some responses to Michael Jones' videos
pertaining to the second coming
and the failed apocalyptic stuff, all of that.
We're gonna go deep into it
because he's taking a conditional approach.
It's a clever one, but it just doesn't work for me
and it doesn't work for Matthew Harkie
and several of the academics I interview on a regular
who are studying New Testament studies.
So looking into it,
of course they're gonna highlight conditional stuff
because if it failed,
well, it's because the Christians didn't do this
or they didn't repent or they weren't obedient enough
or whatever.
That's the same thing you find
in the Old Testament in many cases.
Well, God didn't come yet
because Bobby didn't keep the damn Sabbath.
Quit picking sticks up, Bobby, okay?
So that Yahweh can come back and help us, man.
The damn Babylonians are on our back.
Cut it out.
I mean, where do you draw the line, right?
All right.
All right.
Humanists, thank you so much for that.
I really appreciate you in the chat.
And I always love that you bring up the apocalyptic stuff.
I noticed that you have a thing about that
and I'm into it as well.
So I'm a weirdo.
I'm in the same boat as you.
We're both weirdos.
Let's just own it.
All right.
Hugo's in the house again.
Hugo said, I'm stamping my dollar on you.
I'm putting the dollar on you.
Hugo, thank you for that again, my friend.
I seriously appreciate it.
Jay Victor says,
you're very open about your drug problems in the past.
I presume that faith played a significant role
in your recovery.
Did you ever feel indebted in that respect?
Did it affect your deconversion?
Getting deep into my drug addiction past.
Victor, I am open and the reason I'm open about it
and some addicts may not be,
especially when you go to like 12 step groups
that I have been in for like a long time,
well over a decade, they want to remain anonymous.
I choose not to remain anonymous
because I want the world to know
that I'm not the only one who's going to remain anonymous.
That though it's a problem, it is normal.
People having addictions, this is common.
I want to destigmatize the world of thinking,
you bad human you,
you horrible individual with an addiction problem.
And I also am transparent and open
and screaming from the rooftops about my addictions
because I want people to know they're not alone
and that it can be overcome.
So those are the first two things.
I said the same thing when I was still a theist.
The same thing I'm saying to you right now
is what I said when I still believe that God exists.
When I first got clean off heroin, I believed,
I prayed, I thought, you know, God,
whatever, look out for me, I can't do it.
I don't know how to stay clean.
I've relapsed a thousand times.
I don't know how to keep this.
Please guide me, keep me the whole nine.
As I was getting clean and I was able to do searching
and research and studying,
my concept of God got even bigger.
Meaning, I know that if you say that to a Christian,
they'll be offended or a fundamentalist.
Might be offended by that.
But what I mean is, is my God wasn't just the God of Abraham.
It wasn't just the God of Jesus.
It wasn't just Christian.
It wasn't just Judaism.
I thought maybe God is literally overarching
all human experience and all humans.
Kind of like the blind men
of the elephant analogy I always bring up.
Six wise men of Hindustan.
Or we're all on a path and God's kind of sprinkling
through all humans why we see some commonalities
between religions is that this is God kind of expressing
its self through them all.
So it wasn't this limited, we have the truth,
we're right and everyone else is wrong.
That happened as I started to study world religions
and giving a little bit of actual voice
and listening to actual voices that were not Christian,
not Jewish, but actually saying,
why do I think you're wrong?
And oh, mine is right and yours is wrong.
Eventually I kept looking into science and evolution,
studying biology, learning about my addiction
and what caused me to be an addict.
It wasn't demons or spirits and things like that
that the church had told me over a decade ago.
It was really the midbrain separated
from the frontal lobe cortex from the midbrain.
The neurons weren't firing right.
So environment, my behavior patterns
that I certainly acted out for a long period of time
needed to change.
So I started to force myself to do things
that I wasn't previously doing.
Over time I deconverted.
So it affected my deconversion
because I realized eventually with my study over time,
whoa, I don't think that's true anymore,
but how come I'm clean?
It was like the two footprints in the sand.
I bring that up a lot when this question comes up.
I carried you, Jesus says in some of those poetic images
of the beach with only two footprints.
When you couldn't make it, I carried you.
What I started to do, as I said earlier in this live stream,
the David Blaine you saw behind the curtain
and you realized that the trick was there.
In this analogy, I saw that it was me
and my loved ones who carried me.
It was the strength I had to tell myself and give myself
along with the humans that were around me
that helped carry me.
An example, if you walked into an operating room
and someone had a brain cancer
and let's just say they were cutting it out.
Now we have some science that's possibly eliminating that
from needing to be an option, maybe,
but they're cutting it out and you walk in the room
and you go, oh, thank God.
Thank you, God, for saving her.
What about the doctor who literally spent their entire life
to become an expert on trying to save people's lives
from brain cancer?
Are we giving credit where it isn't needed?
Santa Claus, I used to do this with my kids
and we put like magical footprints
walking through the front door to the Christmas tree
and we made them believe Santa was real
and they would go so far seeing the cookies half bit,
the milk is half empty in the glass.
They thought Santa's magical footprints
all the way up to the tree, the whole nine
and eventually they're gonna know that Santa's not real
and they're gonna be able to go,
it was my parents all along.
It's that kind of thing that I started realizing
that it's really us and it's our minds
and it's our loved ones that help us to achieve the goal
and that God isn't needed,
even though if you read the big book of Alcoholics Anonymous
before Narcotics Anonymous writings are on the scene
or if you go back to some of the writings of Bob and Bill,
the earliest guys within Alcoholics Anonymous,
they think it takes God to some form of God,
a higher power in order to achieve being clean
and staying clean or being sober really
because they were dealing with alcohol
and they were dealing with Carl Jung at the time,
top philosophers that were trying to solve the problem,
the riddle of alcoholism because before that,
they would take the key, lock you up,
if you were really alcoholic and you couldn't get it
and they'd lock you up for the rest of your life.
They had no way to solve the issue.
I'm also vocal because I want people to know
that you can do it without believing in God
and it isn't necessary.
Do I think you have to put higher principles to your mind?
Sure.
Sure.
I think there was a debate that Jordan Peterson did
with somebody when they asked a question about God
and the lady says, no, you don't need God for that.
And he says, yes, you do.
Because his interpretation was,
whatever the highest faculty of your mind
that you commit to, that is your God.
Wow, what a redefinition of terms
to make God into this thing
that you need to carry the baggage of God in.
But no, you do need to get clean.
You do need to better your mind.
You do need to think better of yourself.
You do need to put yourself in an environment
around people, places and things
that put you in a successful,
a much more probabilistic chance
of being successful on being clean.
So you sent me down a rabbit hole
because two of my best friends died from drug addiction.
One died from oxymorphones,
which is a prescribed medication of opioids
mixed with morphine and oxycodone,
something to that effect.
I don't know the pharmacy that well,
but then my other friend actually overdosed from fentanyl
and went, I don't know if he snored in
or just shot it up at the moment
because his family never conveyed that to me,
but he was on a really good path and boom,
next thing you know, he's gone
and I'm getting calls from his family members.
So I hope we can be transparent
and realize that it isn't necessary
because some people's model of God just doesn't work,
especially when you go into the 12 step rooms
and stuff and you hear some of the things people do.
You wouldn't be able to walk into a church
and talk that way,
but you can be real in some of those meetings.
And yeah, anyway, thank you so much for that.
Blake, what do you think blasphemy
against the Holy Spirit means?
Pastors have told me it's not a one-time sin,
but rather it is dying without accepting Christ.
I don't think it's dying without accepting Christ.
I really don't.
And it's hard for me to pin down exactly what it means,
especially when I've talked to experts over the years
who aren't sure themselves what actually is meant by this.
Don't know.
I really, really don't know exactly what this means.
I'm wondering in acts,
if it plays a role in acts with the couple
that sold their land and then they hid the money
and they lied to the Holy Spirit,
I wonder if that instant death
and them like dying on the spot
played any role in blaspheming the Holy Spirit.
It seemed like that could play a role.
They're lying in someone.
I don't know what it means to do that,
but there are various thoughts out there
on what this actually means.
And I imagine it makes sense with Christians
who want to say, hey, make sure before you die,
you at least say, Lord Jesus, forgive me.
And simple as that.
So Blake, I apologize.
Thank you for the super chat.
I don't have much that I can contribute
to the meaning of that.
I wish I could.
Thank you.
Jackwise is Derek is a success with me.
I always learn a thing or two, a thing or two.
That's right, a thing or two.
I learned sometimes here in my self-talk.
The hell?
I didn't know that was in your head.
Why didn't you tell me?
That's what I say to myself.
Thank you, thank you.
Really, really appreciate it.
Oh, Hugo's in the house with the dollar.
Hugo, you could have put this chat right below your dollar.
I'm disappointed that you would say such a thing,
considering that you're a friend of Rabbi Tobias Singer.
You're taking that so-called mistreatment out of context.
You ignore the fact that the Palestinians
wanted to destroy the state of Israel.
I have no clue what you're specifically referring to here,
but I imagine you're on, I don't know whose side
or what you're getting at there.
Interesting.
Hugo, thanks for the super chat earlier.
I don't know what you're getting at specifically,
but yes, I'd be friend Rabbi Tobias Singer.
We haven't spoken a while.
I don't know if some of my work has deterred him
from writing me back on WhatsApp,
but maybe some of my stuff's just been really critical lately.
I don't know.
I haven't talked to him in a minute,
but I get a lot of heat for just being friendly
with Rabbi Tobias Singer from those who are like,
he does to the Old Testament,
well Christian apologists due to the new.
I get it, I do get it, trust me.
I think it's because I was a Christian
that I personally look at Christianity
as like the central thing.
And I know that Christians live with persecution complex,
but they're not really persecuted on that level.
Sure, you can highlight some bad things,
but not on the level that I would say that Jews
tend to have conspiracies surrounding them
to the point where it's just over the top.
The Palestinian thing and the Jewish thing,
that's a very, very controversial issue.
And I don't agree with how Palestinians
have been abused in the situation.
And I also know that there is two sides
to all of these stories.
So it's very political,
but it's also a very bad situation that I would say
needs to change over there
in the current affairs with the state of Israel.
So there's my two cents without getting too political on this,
but I think Dr. Justin Sledge,
I side with him on this issue.
And he's a Jew, he's a religious Jew.
And he definitely disagrees with how the state of Israel
has treated Palestinians.
So I don't know, Hugo, there's my two cents.
Anyway, let me keep scrolling here.
Let me keep going.
Get me in trouble, Hugo.
Why would you do that, man?
Come on, let me keep going here.
Scrolling down, scrolling, scrolling.
Daniel says, yeah, one of the oldest beliefs
people have about the dead.
That's an interesting thing I didn't mention earlier, Daniel,
with Osiris resurrecting and they mummify people.
This is a very, very old idea.
And it goes back millennia before Jesus
that people believed in some form of resurrection,
resuscitation, rebirth, recycle,
reincarnation, whatever it may be,
it can be agricultural and cyclical.
It may be one time, as I think the apocalypticism
and second table Judaism kind of gets to.
But the notion that the dead are not gone for good,
that is ubiquitous, I think.
Even just modern, like psychologists
or people that lose loved ones
and they go to speak to these counselors,
oftentimes the most common thing is that
they're still hearing, seeing,
experiencing their loved one after they're dead.
And I think there's some science to explain why that is,
even if someone wants to attribute it to some,
no, this is the soul or the consciousness
is still around or something like that.
I think the science can explain it and it's just as good,
but I understand why people still want to hold on
to their loved ones after they're dead,
but even neurologically, they're still there
and that person doesn't just turn off because they're dead
and you're experiencing with them.
So I imagine that people in America,
in the Americas, Native Americans,
while they were totally separated from the rest of the world
probably had something like this as well
because of our human experience that we share.
Daniel, good reminder to bring that up.
I didn't think about mentioning Osiris,
but there may be, as some scholars said,
direct correlation somehow with the myths
within Osiris and Isis cults to Jesus.
Don't know, there could be.
Vesper, what's Luther up to today?
I missed the dynamic duo.
Vesper, thank you for the super chat.
I have not heard from Luther in a long time
and Luther was a wonderful, wonderful guy.
I must admit, he's into some stuff I'm not into
and that's about where I'll end it
in terms of the things he's up to today.
So forgive me, I don't care to get into any of the details,
but he was always well-spoken, very bright man,
and a good friend.
And I just, he stopped contacting me after a long time
and then when I saw some of the things he's saying online,
I'm like, oh my gosh, man, what the heck?
I just say some of the stuff goes off the deep end
in my opinion.
Vesper, I really appreciate the reminder,
but yeah, we came from humble origins, you know?
And the fact that you know that
tells me you've been around for a minute
and I thank you for viewing us that long.
Conan Lee in the house.
Oh snap, I haven't seen Conan in a minute.
Let me open my eyes a little bit.
Would you consider interviewing Christian Prince
and Islam criticism?
What are your thoughts of him?
And if you know, what do the scholars per se think of him?
Cheers.
Okay, gotta swig my water to answer this one.
So, I have come across Christian Prince's work.
He is a staunch Christian fundamentalist, I would say.
And he weaponizes his critique of Islam
to bolster Christianity.
And he wants to tit for tat use Christianity
against Islam to show why Islam gets things wrong.
And of course, we'll be critical of that.
But we see the same thing with Rabbi Toby Singer,
for example, with New Testament, right?
So, I don't think this guy likes me.
I've seen him make a video where someone sent me
and told me just watch this part
where he made a derogatory remark about me.
And he's known for that for sure.
As far as academics, I don't, I can't name any,
but I can guarantee you without even having to ask them,
if I sent the Islamic scholars that I talked to,
the Western ones, if I sent them his material,
they would probably be like, what?
Say what?
And it just sounds like two apologetics going at it.
So, they may agree with some of the things
that might come up, a broken clock's right twice a day.
But at the end of the day,
they are so much polemic in his vocalizing
against Muslims and stuff, it just, it's axe grinding.
And for me, I don't watch him.
So, that's my two cents on it.
As far as interviewing him,
I honestly don't even see what I would interview.
Let me put it this way, another way of phrasing it.
I would, I would more like interviewing David Wood
before I would be wanting to interview Christian Prince.
Let me put it that way.
And David Wood has gone on record saying,
if Christianity isn't true,
I might as well become a murderer, which is stupid.
Just keeping it real.
That's just dumb as hell.
But he's like, if Christianity isn't true,
I have no reason not to be a murderer.
Okay, David, but I have talked with David
and we get along when we're on the same show together.
I did that with him, Michael Jones
and Apostate Prophet, Ridvan.
So, I would rather interview David
before I'd interview him, just my thoughts.
Hope that answers Conan, but I can't get caught up
in that the same goes for, who's the guy Shimonian?
He's got a YouTube channel, Christian Apologist,
who goes at Islam, but he's like staunch Christianity
and he attacks the other Christians.
William Lane Craig isn't even really a Christian
to this guy.
I can't, I can't get into that.
I used to watch these guys back in the day
when I was a Christian.
So, what do you do?
Thank you for that Conan.
I'm gonna scroll down here and see who else is in here.
And if we had anybody else that was super chat
and any questions or had a question or something,
would you invite, are you kidding me?
Of course I would.
Right now, actually, I hope that he'll give me the time
at some point.
I'd love to, especially on pre-Islamic Arabic inscriptions
in the region of Arabia.
Goodness gracious, there's some great finds
that we've been discovering.
But right now, in light of publications and stuff
and in the direction I'm trying to take my channel,
I hope that it becomes more ecumenical for him to come on.
I've done some critical, polemical stuff with Islam,
but I also want educated good scholarship.
And so, I need to balance that in a way
because Islam is a much more sensitive topic
to actually breach.
It's not like Christianity where centuries
of being critical of it has been acceptable.
And it's not the same.
We're making a change, but it isn't
and hasn't been the same with Islam.
And I am trying to do that in a way, though,
that is academic and lets people know like,
hey dude, I don't have anything against you.
I just disagree with the worldview or the material
or I don't believe any of that stuff.
So there's a way we have to be careful in doing that
because of the social issues that we see that come from it.
I mean, there are people who hate Muslims.
I mean, I'm not just saying that.
I'm not naming names.
I know personal people close that are family
that make just every once in a while,
you can see it and you hear it.
And keep in mind, my father was over in Afghanistan.
When the war broke out in 2001
or when that happened in 9-11 happened,
immediately soldiers were sent to the Middle East.
My father was in that line of fire.
And the stigma that came from anyone
who's religiously affiliated with Islam in America,
people looked at you and put you on that list
and you were watched.
And that is still a thing in America in many places
and gotta try and get better.
So I would love to have him on
and I want to not create complete hate
toward any people group,
but I do want to create good content
that educates even if it is from a skeptical perspective.
Thank you for bringing that up.
I just needed to highlight that.
Rama again, thank you.
Paul's message won as it took middle place.
It hijacked Roman imperial theology
and subverted the radical rebellion
of the Jewish messianic movement.
Hmm.
I definitely would say it worked with,
it worked with Roman imperial theology to some degree,
subverted the radical rebellion
of the Jewish messianic movement.
I mean, one could argue that maybe even Jesus himself
wasn't a fan of the radical, rebellious,
sword-wielding, fighting, going against Rome movements,
even though he was kind of a protester
to the point where riots would have potentially broke out.
But as far as the idea of Roman imperial theology,
I see that in Mark, I see that,
I think Paul's also doing stuff to that effect as well.
So I think we're in some way similar on this,
but radical rebellion of Jewish messianic movement,
I'm not so sure how to understand that in light of Paul.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm still trying to wrap my head around some things
and continue to study.
So maybe you have some books you recommend.
I'd be happy to look into them
and see what scholars are saying on that.
Max Hendrick, thank you so much for that,
big 20 there, speak of the third century crisis,
the division of the Roman empire by Diocletian
and the effect of those events
regarding the development of the Catholic church
and the implications of it, of this into the present day.
The division of the Roman empire by Diocletian,
which I don't know historically well at all,
and the effect of those regarding the development
of the Catholic church and implication of this
into the present day.
Like as far as Diocletian goes,
I personally have no inside information.
I have not studied this person
and I'm so sorry that I'm not the guy
who has the answer to this.
So I really, really wish I did know.
Maybe this is something, let me screenshot this
because maybe I can get an academic
who does know more history on this
to give a better thorough response.
And maybe you can email me, since you gave me a 20,
I'd like to at least try to do something for you.
But as far as the development of the Catholic church,
this is where that earlier question,
when someone asked me, do you think the gospels
are there to control,
I do think that under Constantine
and getting them politically unified under one umbrella,
I do think that that was a driving agenda for him
in the empire, by uniting people
under the Christian umbrella.
And I think it works because monotheism is really good
at doing that.
We saw this with Akhenaten in Egypt
and how that was actually used,
according to Egyptian Egyptologist Karakuni.
We saw how monotheism really unified the power
into one central focus.
But you also see it earlier, as Elaine Pagels points out,
the even like Irenaeus, Justin Martyr, these guys
are trying to us versus them
to get everybody on their version,
their model of Christian like here, follow our path.
We have the correct understanding of these things.
And these guys have the false answers.
So I think the impact, it also shows up the violence
that starts to take place once it's in power,
wielding the sword.
And we know how that rolled out all the way
into what ends up happening in Spain
and the inquisitions and inquisitors
that are doing all the things they're doing to people
to get them to either convert
or maybe someone didn't have a chance to convert
and they killed them anyway.
I don't know all of the ins and outs.
But I wrote a paper in college
when I did a speech about this,
coming from a very radical fundamentalist
like Protestant view against the Catholic church
and like showed the harms of them being in inquisitions
and all of that kind of stuff.
When politics and Christianity are in power,
what it looks like and it don't look good
just to put it that way.
So I don't know if that answered your question
but email me if you're curious to know more
or you need more answered for that 20.
I really appreciate it.
Definitely above my head of a question,
outside of my wheelhouse even,
I haven't even researched that yet.
Classic rock fan, thank you so much for that Super Chat.
I really appreciate you.
Oh, you got one right here.
Could historical Jesus represent a synthesis
of hillite, Pharisee, halakha, interpretation of mosaic law
mixed with the Asinic apocalypticism
though John the Baptist,
I think you mean through John the Baptist.
Could, I mean, it could.
Me and Dr. Tabor, we did a recording once
and he checked off like nine, maybe it was seven
or nine boxes where Jesus looked like an Asin.
But then there were boxes that Asin's practiced
that Jesus did not check off.
And you kind of wonder, is this hillite like you're saying
and Asin model making sense?
I think that's very likely,
especially if we're looking at one guy.
I get why people want to say multiple historical figures
in one, but to me, it's less as ad hoc to say one dude
just cherry picked what he liked from different movements.
We do it today all the time.
I like this teaching from that place
and I like this teaching and I disagree with that teaching
and this and that.
I think Jesus would have been a great cherry picker
of his own Jewish sex.
That's my thoughts.
Thank you for that super chat.
I really appreciate it and the question.
Reishima says, I was addicted to the Numa of Jesus.
I really was, I would say.
And I experienced what I thought was the spirit of God.
And I know that some Christians go,
no, I've never experienced anything.
I just believe because the evidence is so obvious.
It's not obvious.
There's gotta be more to it
than you just read the Bible when you found out.
Wow, this ancient book told me
that these people said he rose from it.
It's true.
It's true.
There's gotta be more going on up here,
in here, around you, like, come on.
I don't read Suetonius and then go,
you do know Divine Augustus actually was born
by his mother gang.
I don't know if it was a sexual act or not with a snake,
but some snake, which probably represented Apollo,
make sure here.
Attending the sacred rites of Apollo, yep.
In the middle of the night,
her litter positioned in the temple.
In the middle of the night, oops, sorry, fell asleep.
While the other matrons were also sleeping,
all of a sudden, a serpent slid up to her,
then quickly went away on waking.
She purified herself as she would
after sleeping with her husband.
And at once, there appeared on her body
a mark in the image of a snake.
And she was never able to get rid of it
so that ever afterwards,
she avoided going to the public baths.
Augustus was born 10 months later.
And for this reason, it's believed
to be the son of Apollo.
That's true.
I read it in an ancient book
and let's just say that there were 1,000 people around me
that believed he was born by Apollo.
It's true.
The book says it
and I got other people telling me that it's true.
I think there's much more than they just read the Bible.
That's, I think it's dishonest to say,
the Bible says, and that's all.
I think there's a factor playing in,
multiple factors that play into it.
Because you could use the same thing about like Islam.
Like why is Islam such a popular growing religion
and so many people in the world believe it?
Ask a Christian that.
Why were they successful?
Why do they believe this?
They might actually come up with things
that would agree with me on why Islam,
is this world religion that so many people believe in.
But when it comes to their own religion,
this one's true.
Or you go to any other popular famous religion
that same rules apply.
There's some criticism that can be very critical.
The skills on doing that
can be almost impeccable sometimes.
But when it comes to their own,
it's, hmm, Max Hendrick again,
or Max Hendrick, yeah, Max Hendrick.
Speak of the third century crisis,
the subsequent division of the Roman Empire.
Did I already get this?
I did get this.
I don't know if, did you send that twice?
I hope I didn't skip you.
Yeah, you already sent that.
So I feel bad now that you really sent that email me.
Please email me.
There's no option for me to like refund and stuff on here.
I'd be happy to get you on the Diocletian stuff
with academics I know, so please do.
Imnag, can God be defined in a more clear way?
The most popular belief is that
he is the creator of everything.
But even that doesn't make sense
to any critical thinking person.
I don't know.
I mean, so the way I'm taking this question,
this is a little bit probably different
than what you imagined me to say.
When I was deconverting,
and I was slowly trying to still hold on
to the idea of God and understand God,
I came to a point when I was looking at patterns,
and I was into the astrothiology
and thought about how there's some numerical structure
to the universe and stuff,
and I thought maybe God is math,
kind of like the mathematicians,
the Christian mathematicians who would say,
God is geometry or God is math,
God is this mathematics,
which technically you can get to Spinoza
and almost say like God is nature,
all existence and what is, that's God, right?
I think that's a redefinition,
even though that it overlaps with what I think
the ancient Near Easterns really did think about God
as someone who controls weather,
volcano, earthquakes, famines, you name it,
pestilence, you name it,
all those famous Bible words we all know.
But if I did think there was a God,
it would be, you know that thing where we say,
well, why is there something rather than nothing?
Something would just be what I would say,
and that is it would be more like a scientific law
rather than a personal entity.
And so that's what my understanding would have been
that it would have been a law,
almost like just nature itself,
not this personal entity that we are
in the way that we're kind of expressing to one another.
And that's where I started heading with my thinking
at some point.
Eventually I started going,
why do I need to keep holding on to God?
Why do I need God if I'm now starting to think
that this is a reflection, like a mirror in my mind
of me personifying my thinking, my imagination and such.
So assuming agency's there,
it's like you could talk to yourself in your own head
and that in some way reflects God.
It's complicated.
So I don't know why the baggage needed to be kept,
but I kept it for a long time.
And then eventually I started going,
maybe naturalism makes better sense for me
instead of the God idea.
But then you still can't answer, Derek,
why there's something rather than nothing.
And I've stayed up long nights asking myself,
are we asking the wrong question?
Like what if it isn't possible?
We like to be philosophically,
we like to be hypothetical in our brains
and think about this,
but what if it's not possible that nothing could be nothing?
Like there's no way that nothing couldn't exist.
What if always something always has an always will
and there is no way that nothing could exist?
Isn't the question in a way wrong at that point?
That was my question.
So I know it sounds weird
and I just freaking probably made people go like, what?
But I would stay up nights just in past months,
sit there and think about it and go,
is that the wrong question?
The deepest philosophical question is,
why is there something rather than nothing?
Is that the wrong question?
It's cool to think about,
but like what if that question isn't even possible
that nothing could be before?
So I just think that brute fact of saying,
well, you know, something exists is a good one.
Don't know.
Imnak, thank you so much for that.
I'm making sure.
Robert cried when Santa didn't exist.
Robert, you're not alone, Robert.
Don't worry, that dude was awesome.
He brought all the badass gifts.
I think the reason kids get so invested
in mythological figures is because
they represent human ideals.
We in our day to day lives fell to live up to him.
Interesting, interesting.
I appreciate you throwing that in there.
Bertie says, Derek, have you viewed your opinion
on the Palestinian-Israel conflict?
I think I talked about that briefly,
and I really, it's a hot button issue,
but I definitely think you can go and Google
some stuff on that and find out
that it gets pretty bad over there for sure.
Hebrew is Greek, type Joseph Yahuda, Wikipedia.
What are your thoughts?
Thank you for the super chat.
Hebrew is Greek?
You got an, all right, is this like a test
or something, Joseph Yahuda?
And you want me to look it up on Wikipedia, you said?
Wikipedia, all right, let me see what we got here.
Wikipedia, all right, Joseph E. Yahuda.
This is in another language here.
That was not in English.
Here it is, I think, Joseph Ben Judah, nope, that's not it.
Wikidata.org, Joseph E. Yahuda.
I don't know who this is, and I don't know what,
what, I don't understand,
but I would say to the philologists, people I know,
they would not say Hebrew is Greek.
But thank you for the super chat, really appreciate that.
Anybody else along the way?
Oh, Dalai Lama needed a little apotheosis over here.
I don't blame you, Dalai.
I really don't blame you.
Sometimes I gotta sprinkle a little apotheosis on myself.
Really appreciate you being a member of my friend,
and thank you for being a patron, a member,
and all the support you do.
I really do appreciate that all the time.
Thank you for joining.
And there's at least 500 witnesses that will see this,
so trust me, it's gonna be left in a record.
Constellation Pegasus didn't Jews not believe
in resurrection and then did later on?
Yes, yes, obviously the Hebrew Bible,
if you go back to the older material,
resurrection was not a theme.
And a recent interview was done with Matthew Munger,
actually, on Deep Drinks podcast about no soul,
like what's up with the soul in the Old Testament,
the Hebrew Bible, and that seemed to play a significant role
in his deconversion, I think.
I don't wanna put words in his mouth, but I think.
And so Matthew Munger actually talks about that,
but a lot of the scholars I talked to say,
it'd be post-Persian to put it nicely, just to rough around.
Like post-Persia, when the Jews were in Persia,
and later, that you would start getting
the idea of resurrection.
Uh-oh, got a call coming in.
What's up, brother?
Do you help me out with the thumbnail?
He's asking for a thumbnail, fam.
Who's that?
Oh, you're live?
I'm live.
Oh, I didn't know you were live.
I was live.
Look at him, he's caught on camera, man, we got him.
He wants a fummy.
You got caught red-handed, brother.
What are you gonna do now?
Oh, I wasn't asking for drugs, though.
No.
I wasn't asking for drugs, though.
Right?
Look, yeah, let me do this live,
and we'll be wrapping up here shortly,
and then I'll help you out.
I'll talk to you soon.
All right, bro, bye.
Cool.
So yes, resurrection, post-Persia,
within the Hellenistic times,
you really start seeing it as apocalypticism rose,
and the Jews were expecting a resurrection, for sure.
But you also get hints of something like this
with the Ezekiel dry bones, right?
Even though it's allegorical to represent Israel,
you kinda wonder if some Jews,
even around the time that this was written,
may have thought the destruction of,
look at how many of our people have fallen and been killed.
Will they come together in some way, literally?
Will Israel itself become back?
Literally.
And we know that's how some of them interpreted it later.
So, yeah, it's a later on thing, for sure.
And Jesus is in that same vein.
Thank you, Constellation, appreciate it.
Someone said, wood is delusional.
I think from the statement alone,
it's pretty nutty to make that statement.
Yes, I'm with you.
Scrolling down, scrolling down.
Christian Prince has his blinders on his own religion,
but he spots on about Islam.
Thank you for that comment.
Max Hendrick, again, the division of the Roman Empire,
but holy smokes, my friend.
I am worried that you're on repeat here in your super chats,
but I thank you for the support.
I mean that, but I really do want you to email me, please,
because I feel bad, feel guilty.
But I thank you.
Grace174, Mythition Podcast,
do you have a naturalistic explanation
for the resurrection granting for the sake of argument,
eyewitness claims of bodily appearances
in empty tomb and guards at the tomb?
Hold on, that's a lot, Grace.
Granting the sake of argument, eyewitness claims, right?
So, humans see stuff all the time.
There are people who saw Elvis after he died,
or Tupac, or whoever, right?
Not a problem, simple to me.
Eyewitness claims of bodily appearances.
There's people, like I said,
who had T with Elvis after he's dead.
And they said he was there with him, right?
So, yeah, an empty tomb and guards at the tomb.
Now you're adding guards at the tomb,
which is only found in Matthew, which is weird,
because nowhere else are there guards.
Dennis has an interesting take on that.
Don't know if he's right,
but Dennis McDonald, I mean.
The guards at the tomb's a funny thing.
Like, if there were guards at the tomb,
and I were trying to explain this,
then maybe someone paid the guards at the tomb.
I mean, you can come up with anything,
and it would make more sense to me
than he literally rose from the dead.
You could also come up with the guy actually wasn't killed,
that Jesus was still alive inside of the tomb
and come up with a swoon theory.
He survived his death, and then after three days,
or day and a half, boom, he's out.
It could be he never died.
That's why he appeared, and people saw him after,
and the tomb was empty,
because he's literally no longer in that tomb.
For me, that is not the most likely position.
The most likely is that this is legend,
but like you said, natural explanation,
all of this can be explained away.
It really can, and the Christians go,
but the text says this is why it happened,
and we gotta go with that,
but that's just, it's one of those things.
You need more than just a book saying it.
The text says in Suetonius,
that a serpent got his mother pregnant,
and there were portents about Augustus' birth,
and that that year, the Senate,
I mean like, where do you draw the line, right?
So I would need a lot more than a text saying it.
Conan Lee, thank you for your response, Derek.
I think Christian Prince provides some good insights
being an ex-Muslim.
Like you, I find him condescending and very rude,
et cetera, so much so I refuse to watch him also.
Yeah, I think a lot of people who've left religions
they were part of, like me,
might have some things to highlight.
You might disagree with my rhetoric,
you might disagree with antagonism I might bring up,
you might disagree with me because I'm too nice to people.
There's people who disagree with me
because I don't go far enough.
You can't make everyone happy, right?
But he comes off with such a tone,
I don't know if any of my scholar friends
would even watch him.
The ones that are in the Islamic studies,
Koran, the whole nine,
I don't think they would even waste their time, so.
There are also people who hate Christians,
be fair Derek, the truth is,
you're not allowed to be critical of Islam.
I mean, there are people that hate Christians,
but I also know for a fact,
the kind of situation that we have with Muslims.
So it's not, you're not allowed,
I am critical of Islam.
And I know Muslims who know I'm critical of Islam,
I'm critical of Christianity,
but I also like to separate between the people,
the person and their conduct, behavior,
like are they decent humans that are just,
what I would say, mistaken or duped by their religion
that they believe is literally true?
I mean, that's it.
So yes, there are people who hate Christians, I get it.
There is no like grand,
from what I have my experience in America,
because Christians are on the upper hand here.
They have it made.
So I do want to be critical of all of them.
And also I have to also be careful with the academics
who are going to participate in being critical
and how we approach that.
Because many of them don't believe Islam,
but they also aren't like antagonistic to the core
against Muslims and what they're doing in Islam.
So it's one of those things.
It's tit for tat, you know?
That's why I think a lot of these ex-Muslims
or people who are critical of Islam
that are mostly Christian apologists,
mostly I say, do not have these academics ever join them
and they aren't interested in joining them
because it's an axe grinding only focused on one thing.
Graves174, what do you think about modern Messianic Jews?
I think if we're talking about Messianic
in the sense of like Christian Jews,
I think that they're just, I don't know what to say.
I don't know what to say.
I think it's interesting to see a small pocket
within the small amount of population of Jews in the world
that might follow Jesus, that claim to be Jews.
It's really odd.
It doesn't seem like that was the norm throughout history.
And if you're talking about Messianic Jews
in the sense of like non-Jewish Messianic Jews,
I would imagine they would probably fit
in the Zionist camp of some sort.
So I don't really know how to answer your question here,
Graves, don't hate me.
Not sure exactly how to answer,
but like any other religion,
I would say they're mistaken.
They're wrong.
I don't think it's true.
Constellation Pegasus is the most important
and thought-provoking question of the day,
the Battlestar Galactica versus the Battlestar Pegasus.
Who wins that fight?
You're wild.
I appreciate that.
Look, Kip Davis says,
if you want to discover truth, myth, vision, podcast,
you will find it through editing my course lecture videos.
You're right.
Look, I'm not gonna argue with you.
You're right.
You're right.
But after this long ass stream,
I'm not sure I'll have the energy right now to get on it.
Kip, don't hate me, man.
Do not hate me, man, okay?
I don't hate you, so you can't hate me.
Graves, again, would you accept a public fight
with Frank Turret?
A public fight with Frank?
What kind of super chat is this?
Look.
Now, I would be happy to do something
where I wouldn't literally be hurting him,
but I'd be happy to get into a sparring match
or something, put on some gloves.
Bear Knuckles is going a bit far,
but I'd be happy to wrestle,
do a UFC-type thing with pads on.
I'd be happy to do something like that, maybe.
I don't know.
But then again, I don't know if he's done...
I met Frank Turret, by the way,
back when I was a Christian at a conference.
I don't know if that would be unfair.
I mean, I don't know what kind of experience he has.
Like, my dad raised me and my brother
in martial arts in various forms with Jiu Jitsu
and Taekwondo, and then of course,
he did close quarter combat training with us
and stuff like that.
And then I wrestled in high school
and I was very athletic.
So I don't know if that would be like not fair for him.
So if it was like a mutual friendly,
let's go in, man, let's see what happens, then maybe.
Yeah, I don't have a problem with that.
I'd be happy to do something like that.
God is placebo, someone said.
What will always exist, Myth Fish and Podcast,
is my unedited courses until you finish editing.
Kip, I told you not to hate me, man.
Now it's starting to sound like
you've got an axe to grind with me.
Dalai Lama, Hebrew is Greek,
the blocked book of Joseph Yehuda.
Okay, let me look this up.
Now that you're really highlighting this,
I'm wondering what I'm missing here.
Hebrew, I'm gonna look this whole thing up.
Hebrew is Greek, the blocked book.
Yeah, Yehuda.
All right, Hebrew is Greek, the blocked book of Yehuda.
I need to share my screen,
so everybody's watching and experiencing this with me
to see what this is about.
Here we go, sharing screen.
Okay, Hebrew is Greek, the blocked book of Joseph Yehuda.
In 1982, a suppressed ages old historical truth
was resurrected through the publication of a book
by Beckett Publications at Oxford, England.
The book published in English entitled,
Hebrew is Greek, was written by lawyer,
linguist and researcher, Joseph Yehuda,
the son of Isaac Benjamin Ezekiel Yehuda,
an ethnic Jew and longtime researcher and linguist.
Though Jewish both by nationality and religion,
J. Yehuda could be considered a Greek,
according to Isocrates' definition of a Helene
since his decades long unbiased
and meticulously thorough research
reveals the linguistic relationship
of numerous groups of words in Hebrew, Greek and Arabic,
work that was published without fear
or hesitation by a scholar whose only concern
was for the discovery of truth.
Preface.
We found that the Jews and Spartans
from the same genus come from and the affinity to Abraham,
prefaced by S. Levin who said,
it was J. Yehuda's congeniality in my inherent curiosity
that did not allow me to refuse the writings
of the introduction.
I think that's an interesting quote there by the way,
but I should have done this
so you can actually see what's being said here.
So this is actually interesting.
I'm not gonna say that I would draw that kind of conclusion,
but I would definitely think that when Hellenism came in,
Jews, this is from what I've researched
and here's the book I would recommend reading
to kind of get more of a taste of what's happening.
Jews and their Roman rivals,
pagan Rome's challenge to Israel,
this doesn't go in depth in the Hellenistic period,
but it does drive by.
This really goes into the Roman period,
but at this point, Hellenized Jews
who had been already saturated
with the Greek ways and thoughts
were already finding ways to make Zeus their God, Yahweh,
like the same deity.
So you see this overlap where they're starting
to merge their practices, their ideas in some cases,
not all cases, but I wonder if the inspiration
is trying to do that from this book.
If it's trying to say, we found this right here again,
just to show you, we found that the Jews and Spartans
from the same genus come from the affinity to Abraham
and that tells me they're trying to argue,
Jews and Greeks come from Abraham,
from the same descended from Abraham.
And I imagine you might even say the same thing
of what the authors in the Bible
are trying to say with Abraham coming from Ur,
imagine you're in Babylon,
you've got all these Babylonian mythologies
and histories and narratives,
but guess who comes from Babylon?
Ancient Sumer, our daddy, Abraham.
So there's a way in which you're gonna write
that you're guys from the region
of the people that have conquered you.
And I think the same might be happening with Hellenism.
I don't know the linguistic side of any of this,
but I do know that when Hellenism occurred,
there's a collaborative effort, not just with Hellenism,
but even throughout the Bible.
We have the patriarchs and their genealogies
that often sound like nation states,
like they're trying to act like these nations
also descend from our guy.
So we're all related, the Canaanites are related in some way.
And this is, we think that they were Canaanites
if you go far enough back,
but the point is that they're finding ways
to politically unite their histories.
And I think that's what's going on here.
So I don't know how far that he tries to go
with the linguistics, but the question I have is,
is this written in English?
Cause I'm not a linguist and I don't know Greek.
I'd have to read more.
That's an interesting book Dalai Lama
and thank you for the first person who referred to it.
So thank you.
Hey, Derek, the gospels seem ignorant
of the differences of the house of Shamai
and the house of Hillel, lumping all Pharisees together.
Do you think this is important to consider?
Probably is, it could be.
Maybe, maybe not.
Maybe the author has some other particular form,
maybe he has some idea that certain form of Pharisees
are the bad guys.
I don't really know.
It might be worth considering,
but that doesn't mean that Jesus couldn't pick practices
from the Pharisees.
Jesus believes in the resurrection of the dead,
according to the gospels, and so do the Pharisees.
Does that mean that Jesus couldn't have lifted ideas
from certain groups that might have a certain form
of tradition?
Not necessarily, but it doesn't mean that he did either.
So classic rock fan, good highlighting that.
Oh my gosh, who is this?
One of the things that I just learned
about MythFish and Podcast is that along
with that horrible digital homerabi in Kip Davis,
they are part of a government conspiracy
to destroy Christianity.
Dude, why would you tell everybody that on air?
Literally, you made me read it.
I was coerced.
Everyone saw that.
We're not part of some fricking government conspiracy
to destroy Christianity?
No, we're not, we're not part of, I'm just kidding.
Oh, my book just fell.
I'm thinking of, what's his name?
Who did that on camera?
Jim Carrey.
I got that book from one of my friends
who's actually a Freemason who came, Gary Stone,
and he actually explained the whole thing.
I've even got his Master Mason apron over there.
So Josh, when you're ready to do our Satanic cabal ritual
and sacrifice some of the infants on the altar
and all that, like hit me up.
You already know the deal.
We just don't want everybody to know
what's really going on.
Make sure that this doesn't get out there.
I've muted everyone else,
so they don't know what I'm saying to you.
This is completely secret here, okay?
And Kip, I left Kip on unmute as well.
So only Kip and you hear what I'm saying
and actually see what I'm telling you right now.
Can you ask Josh,
because you have a little more clout
in the movement we're part of, you know, the Illuminati.
Can you ask them to send that check?
They're a couple of years late on sending me that check.
They've been promising.
I'd appreciate that if you don't mind, my friend.
All right, let me unmute everybody.
Okay, all right.
Now everybody can hear me.
Sorry, I had to take a bathroom break for a moment there.
You know, sometimes you got to go.
Thank you everybody for sticking around.
Let me use the restroom.
I appreciate it, appreciate it.
Scroll in now, scroll in now.
Uh-oh, people know that he's here.
How do they know that he's here?
Oh my gosh.
Fee Crux says, hi, Derek.
Where do you think the text of Quran come
about in isolated Arabia literature-wise?
Well, it could be oral
and I don't think it's completely without literature.
Even though some scholars think maybe down in Arabia
there was no literature, there were Christian churches.
We know that from archeology.
I can't imagine that all Christian churches
didn't have any literature floating around
of stories of traditions of whatever,
but also oral traditions were definitely floating around
in this area.
So this is where I think the coming about
of the Quran comes from, that they weren't in a pocket.
They were definitely aware of the stories
that were in the biblical tradition.
Scroll in down.
I hope everybody's good here.
I'm just trying to get close to this guy, this guy.
Let me mute him and say something about that guy.
What the heck is wrong with Kip?
What is wrong with this guy?
Okay, all right, unmuting.
Hey, Kip, what's up, man?
And you missed vision podcast.
If you finish editing my course lecture videos,
we will finally achieve world peace.
Maybe you could win the Nobel Prize.
Thanks, man.
Thanks, brother.
I really appreciate you, mute.
Come on, can everyone help me with this guy?
This is annoying.
This is absolutely over the top.
Someone go and shank him, unmute.
Brother, man, I don't know what I'd do without you.
Thanks for tuning in today, Kip, appreciate you.
You're awesome.
Such a good person, everybody.
Go show Kip some love, shank him.
Constellation, Pegasus, God knows I love you.
Modern messianic Jews are normal.
Every religion has splinter groups within splinter groups.
Only thing surprising about them is that they don't exist.
I think there are modern messianic Jews though,
just not a lot from what I understand.
Help me out.
Constellation.
I think, correct me if I'm wrong.
Hold on, what happened?
Am I like trying to get, what the heck?
My thing uploaded way down to the bottom.
Hold on, I'm sorry.
I'm trying to find out where I was.
Constellation, Pegasus.
Oh, here I am.
Okay, thank, yeah.
I thought there were modern messianic Jews
and I think there are.
And there's a trend trying to push that more,
especially if they're Christians.
Apollo's Christian apologetics.
Good to see you here.
Back from work out of curiosity.
How's YouTube been to you?
In terms of censorship, advertisement, monetization,
et cetera, much love for all y'all.
I haven't had any problems.
Everything's been good.
My videos have not been blocked or demonetized or anything.
I don't think I get censorship.
I think we're good.
I think I'm pretty kosher when it comes to all of that.
It's good to see you here though.
I haven't seen you in a while
and usually you were popping in for a while
but I know how life is as well.
So I hope you're doing well
and I really do appreciate you tuning in
and tossing a super at me, man.
All right, all right, all right.
Moho says, is the gospel created by hillite Judaism?
I don't know.
There's some people who have,
I've got books back here.
Jesus, the Pharisee and stuff.
I haven't read yet.
So it'd be interesting to see
if they take that kind of approach, but I don't know.
Fee, crux, where do you think Quran
as a majestic text originated from in Arabia
where no known major literary work existed before?
Where do you think the Quran?
This is a good question to ask an academic.
Marine might know, Sean Anthony might have an answer.
I know that Gabriel Said Reynolds might know
or have a position on this,
but I think the language, the dialect in the Quran
is Koresh, like Koresh tribe dialect
from what I understand.
And I don't know exactly the technical terms beyond that.
So it may have originated in the place
in which the tradition would say that it was written.
It doesn't hurt either way.
This is the thing I always tell people too
when they're being critical of Islam.
I get taking certain critical positions
or thinking maybe this is true or not,
but you don't need it to like realize
that something may be man-made
and not necessarily from God,
which is why I have no problem even saying
that the Quran's a pretty early document.
I have no problem thinking that it may,
and most of it may go back to Muhammad.
Wouldn't bother me a bit, it really doesn't.
So I know there are some skeptical positions
on some of the stuff, maybe there's stuff
that was added to it, who knows,
lower palimpsest manuscript, all of that.
I don't know the answer to this question though,
but I do know that this version of Arabic is like
in literary form, it wasn't known before
in terms of down in Arabia,
but you dealt with like nomadic tribes
and there wasn't really a centralized,
well-known government down there either.
So I don't know if that played a role
in having a document for themselves down in Arabia.
Maybe we need to do an episode on this and ask a scholar.
Fee, it's an interesting question
and I would like to know the answer myself.
Scrolling down, someone is going to jail.
What's going on?
Oh my God, it leaked.
You have got to be kidding me.
They saw it, they, oh my gosh.
How do I, how do I wipe this from the internet?
Someone call me, someone call me.
Holy smokes, oh my gosh.
This is not good, this is not good.
They know, Josh, Kip, they know, they know.
What are we going to do?
Oh my God, what are they going to do?
No, I'm not, I never said such a thing.
I would never, never, Kip,
don't believe anything that I say,
because I never said anything.
Don't, don't you ever.
I hit mute.
Oh my God, I hit mute.
Did the mute button not work?
Dude, this is ridiculous.
I got to get a new keyboard, I'm going to have,
they found out, they found out.
No, they did not.
They found out.
Jacob, Mohammed, thank you for the super chat.
Do you think the end times mentioned in the Bible
has already occurred?
And do you think we will ever have a new religion
as popular, a new Messiah?
I don't know, I doubt the whole last part
in terms of as popular, but then again,
people believe all sorts of stuff.
It's an interesting thing to think about.
People love to attach themselves to a cult leader.
And I find the cult mentality even works in politics.
So that works.
Do I think the end times in the Bible has already occurred?
Yes and no, meaning I think the time for which they thought
all of this was supposed to happen,
that is long gone and way behind us.
Do I think what was expected occurred?
No, I think it failed.
And I was a full preterist trying to make sense of it
and make sure Jesus was saved,
because I didn't want him to be wrong.
Turns out that I was wrong about that
based on my research here.
Okay, sorry, I'm reading.
Apostate prophet just wrote me, isn't that interesting?
Thank you for that super chat.
I hope that Kipp's not in the chat anymore
and he doesn't see what just happened, everybody.
Please don't tell him too, please, please.
Can I get a blessing and spirit of the tongue of God?
I need some uplifting.
I'm a God.
She met the cat.
I'm a cat.
Rock it.
You better cut it up.
I'm a God.
I'm a God.
I'm a God.
I'm a God.
I'm a God.
But not there you go, man.
You got a big blessing there, brother.
And I know you could feel that from me to you.
You felt that, didn't you?
Don't lie.
Just let everybody know.
You know, you felt that.
There's no lying here on myth vision.
We are only transparent.
We don't mute nothing.
We don't not say stuff to the public.
No secret societies here.
No Illuminati, no Freemasonry, none of that.
Know what I mean?
You know what I mean, Mr. Monster?
You know what I'm saying.
Right?
I hope that the blessings of tongues
actually seeped into you there.
There's just a power there, didn't you, Phillip?
I need to hear from you, though.
I need to know that you're truly receiving the blessing there.
So let me know in the chat.
I'm looking.
Kit Bavis says,
you should probably just fold the channel
and get back to editing my course lecture videos.
Do you think he knows?
Do you think he knows?
Someone think, Cedav Iblis thinks that the jig is up.
Oh my gosh.
Oh my gosh.
I felt it.
I knew you would.
I freaking knew that you would, Mr. Monster.
It makes me feel good that you felt it.
I felt the power leave me like Jesus did
when the woman touched this little hem of his robe
or whatever you call the thing that's a T word.
Anyway, she felt the power
and then he felt it leave him
even though everyone's touching him.
I felt the power leave me.
All right, Kit, listen.
I have to go because Kit is the nicest guy in the world.
He's abusing me, everybody.
He's abusing me.
And I'm gonna make sure that I edit this video
that I'm so excited and can't wait to edit
so that we can get you this course.
Oh, you know what I mean?
Thank you.
I hope nobody's taken me serious right now
because I'm being absolutely sarcastic.
Grace 174 again.
This is an apocalyptic message.
So the end is here.
I'm closing the gates.
Nobody's entering the new Jerusalem after this.
What do you think about IP's take on Jesus
not being a failed apocalyptic prophet
that Jewish prophecy is dependent conditional
on human activity so partial fulfillments
and delays aren't signs of failure?
I think that he is doing everything he can
to ensure that it did not fail.
Do you want me to elaborate?
I think that if he can find anything conditional,
he'll capitalize on that to make sure
that Jesus did not fail.
I think that Christianity and Apologists need this
to be true so that their God in the flesh wasn't wrong.
Simple.
I don't know any other way to put it.
I think it's clever.
I think that what he's trying to do
is highlight certain things that make it sound conditional.
But overall, I'm with the vast majority
of the critical scholars on this
and that is it's apocalyptic.
It didn't happen like all apocalyptic movements,
reinterpretation, pushing off the date, waiting.
They don't quit.
They never say, oh, it's not true.
They always have to change their thinking
or wait longer for it to happen.
So that's my thoughts to keep it real with you.
I'm friends with Michael,
but I think Michael's dead wrong on this one
and so does Matthew Harkie.
And we will be doing shows on that in time.
I know, Trigger, I know, I know.
Hey.
Apollos, you slipped in the damn gates.
How did you get through the gate?
Someone should have shut those gates.
Do a vid, ask and chat GPT to do Christian apologetics.
I'm gonna have to do that at some point for fun.
But I seriously gotta go, cause my friendship,
it sounds like my friendship with Dr. Kip
is on its last leg right now and I can't do that.
I can't, I can't.
All right, I love everybody.
Thank you so much for hanging out with me
in my goofy, ridiculous, being silly.
But I really appreciate you.
Check out the description.
Go check out a course or two or three or four,
cause we've got like four out now.
We're on to our fifth, if I ever edit it, of Kip Davis.
And I seriously love y'all.
I mean that.
I hope that you stay positive.
I hope you have a wonderful weekend.
Until next time.
I don't know when I'm doing another live stream
or dropping another video.
I'm gonna get to work.
I'm gonna try and at least do one more video today
of Dr. Kills and yes, be ready seriously.
I love y'all.
I really do.
Thank you for being here and listening
and throwing super chats at me and comments and questions
and all of that stuff.
So thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Love y'all.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
