Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Come on, subscribe to his podcast.
We are MedVision. Welcome back to MedVision Podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert. No Shave,
November. Talking about early Mormonism with Joseph Smith right here in front of you.
I'm just kidding. We're talking about Joseph Smith, ladies and gentlemen. And
you guys, this is one of the craziest histories I've ever heard. I've never heard a cult
develop like this with a man like this who went through so much. And it's one of the most rich,
if not the richest cult in the world, religion in the world. Interesting. Just to see how it's
developed and having these two wonderful gentlemen join me, Bryce Blankenagle, the host of,
sorry, the host of Naked Mormonism Podcast. And once again, I said he was naked when he
does these podcasts. So just keep that in mind. He is naked from the waist down right now. As you
can see his face. He's, what is it? You're white and delightful as Joseph Smith would.
Absolutely. Real high quality camera I got here. It's real great stuff.
I know, right? And then we have David Fitzgerald, author of The Complete Heretics Guide to Western
Religion and the Mormons. Got to get the book, guys. Go down in the description now,
join their patrons, help them out. If you don't, I'm going to probably call upon Joseph Smith's
spirit and we're going to make something happen to you. So anyway, with that being said, guys,
last episode, we ended on this character, this gentleman who's got a lot of connections
coming into the scene with Joseph Smith. Not even sure if Joseph knows what he's doing half
the time. It's almost like he realizes when he's in over his head or when something happens.
And this guy is a gangster when it comes to connections and power and just having so much
to bring. If you want to know more, go to the Naked Mormonism Podcast. I'm saying that right
now and I'm sure David would definitely agree with me on this. Yeah. So anyway, let's get started.
Or pick up David's book. We're getting into details that David covers throughout his book
extensively. We're getting into stuff that he doesn't cover and he covers a lot of stuff that
we're skipping over too. There's a wealth of information here that's just so much fun. That's
why I started last episode saying that it's so much fun. It's so attractive that no matter how
deep you look, there's always something new and interesting to learn in Mormon history.
Absolutely. Could not agree more. All right, Bryce, let's go. Let's talk about John Bennett,
right? So we kind of teased him, introduced him a little bit last episode. Well, I want to read,
he sent a number of letters to Joseph Smith and was like asking for information about the Mormons
and their movement and everything, which revealed that he's quite an opportunist. He was yet one
more of these guys who was looking to capitalize on thousands of people who are refugees.
It's astounding what a rogues gallery was attracted to this, this fledgling little religion,
you know, blows my mind. You could just have a whole, you need a program to keep track of them
all, honestly. Birds of a feather make murders, right? So finally, in August 1840, John Bennett
sent a letter to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, right? So, and by the way, Sidney Rigdon in all
of this, right? I call him Hingepin Rigdon on my podcast because everybody's got to have nicknames,
but he, he is the hinge point on which the success of the religion turned in the early,
early Kirtland days. Well, prison broke Sidney Rigdon, absolutely broke him to pieces,
and he was not well. So during the prison, during their time in Liberty Jail, from November to,
well, to April of 18 or 1838 to 39, the six men in Liberty Jail, it was a bad time for all of
them. They couldn't build a fire because there wasn't enough ventilation that they would just get smoked
out. So they would just freeze, they just froze, and it was very uncomfortable and they weren't fed
very well. They were enemies of the state and the state had them in captivity, right? Like they,
it was not a good time in Liberty Jail. Well, Sidney Rigdon very, very, very, very much bought
into his preaching and into his own rhetoric. And just like Joseph Smith wrote in his letter
to the, one of his epistles, one of his Liberty Jail letters, what, you know, oh, God, where art
thou? Why have you forsaken me? Sidney Rigdon very much felt that same way. And they, they all felt
like God had abandoned them. Why would God allow his chosen people to suffer so much? Why would God
allow these horrible things to happen to such good people who are his servants? But Sidney Rigdon
really took it to heart and it broke him, completely broke him to pieces. And during his stay in jail,
he was like given to like madden the ramblings and he would swoon and he would convulse and he
he was just, he had, from, he had childhood brain trauma from a horse accident and the,
the impacts of that childhood brain injury meant that he had all sorts of very odd mannerisms
in ticks and neurological problems that only became exacerbated in Liberty Jail.
So he ended up arguing, basically pleading insanity in a court and was released two months
before Joseph Smith was. So he got to commerce or to Quincy where all the Mormons were settling
two months before Joseph Smith and the other five or other four in the jail did.
And Joseph Smith sniffed that there was a coup going on that Rigdon was trying to gain too much
power and Joseph repeatedly systematically shut down Sidney Rigdon and tried to send him out to
pasture basically. Joe recognized that a lot of, or at least he thought that a lot of the problems
that they, that they suffered from in Missouri were a result of Sidney Rigdon, right? It was
Sidney Rigdon's July 4th oration that was printed because Rigdon wanted to print it
that caused the Mormon extermination order and it caused the Hansel Massacre and it caused so many
things, right? So a lot of the Missouri Mormon War was laid at the feet of Sidney Rigdon and he,
even today, is maligned in Mormon communities because he didn't follow Brigham Young and because
he was, well, he was too much of a firebrand. He was too far out there and he dragged the
church through the Missouri Mormon War. And he was a bit of a whack job, as you say. He had this
totally neurological issues. Swooning was his thing and his preaching was very over the top
and he clearly thought he was going to be the heir to Joseph Smith. Yes. Clear from the beginning,
like you said, he was the hinge pin. He was the one that doubled the church initially,
but Oliver Caldery, John C. Bennett, all these guys were all rivals for that favorite son position
in Mormonism and he was right there with them thinking that he was one of the front runners.
Yeah, absolutely. Right. So Joe was scared of Sidney Rigdon but also recognized Rigdon's
usefulness, right? There was no better orator in the church than Sidney Rigdon. He had the ability
to have a gathering of 100 to a few thousand people laughing in one moment and in tears the
next moment. He was capable of swaying large groups of people incredibly well. And you get a sense
for his preaching style when you read Rigdon's own handwriting, the things that he wrote.
The guy never completes a sentence. He's like our, well, former president right now, right? He,
like, he, he'll start a thought and then he'll say a thought and then he'll say a thought and then
he'll say a thought and all of these are like beginning thoughts to sentences and then he never
gets to the conclusion of any thoughts. The big word salad. Yes, exactly, exactly. So you'll read
his sentences that'll be like two, three hundred words long with commas and semicolons and they're
just a mess. They may be grammatically correct, but you don't have any comprehension of what he's
saying from anything that you read from him because he had that ability. I think there's
like a stupefaction factor that comes along with these charismatic orators, right? Where
they say so many things, they say it eloquently and they pound the pulpit at the right time
and they get people to just forget that they're even human and they're just enraptured by the
feeling, even if the words don't make sense, but the feeling, the emotions that are conveyed
by the body language and the inflections of voice and the pounding of the pulpit.
They're swayed and moved by these things. It doesn't matter what is being said. That's what
Reagan was useful for. Absolutely. And I think you're right. And we still see that today in
pastors. The preaching phenomenon is the ability to say these things and the factual content,
usually there's no factual content. It's just hypnotic. Yes, there's a feeling. And yeah, he
just draws you in. And yeah, it's interesting because there was a church on TV, I think,
there might have been a YouTube video I saw where there was an African-American pastor and man,
when he got into it, he's like, and Jacob, you know, like he does this little like breath between
each. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Jacob, the God of Isaac, and it's like, what, you know, like.
Yeah, it's a fantastic movie by Jared Preacher in the go back. You broke out. There's a fantastic
movie. I apologize. There's a fantastic movie by Jeremiah Kamara called Contradiction,
just putting expose spotlight on the methodology of black preachers and how he breaks down into
their strategies and the way they they lay out their their sermons and how they're completely
fact free. And yet they they just use these little tricks, these rhetorical tricks,
to bring an audience under their fral. And yeah, it's the exact same kind of thing we're seeing
in religious movement after religious movement today. It's years ago. Yeah, it's it's theater.
It's theater. It's entertaining. It pacifies the masses, right? It keeps people interested,
engaged, and it keeps people giving their money to whoever is saying those things, right?
And that's how Rigdon was useful to Joseph Smith, because Joseph wasn't as good at or
Rigdon was. But he's more than a party. Yes, yes, exactly. He was an ideas man. He was a party boy.
He was fantastic at one to one in person connections. That's where Joseph Smith saying,
or you know, that that was that was where he was the ringer. If there was a meeting that he needed
to get something out of somebody, it chances were pretty good that Joseph was going to get that.
But swaying an entire group of people to do something that he wanted.
That wasn't Joe's forte. That wasn't his personal strength. But he had the ability to recognize
those skills and other people. And he rekindle and bring them young to some extent were were
better orators than Joseph Smith. Not so much bring them young, but he rekindle definitely.
It's any Rigdon was but hey, you got somebody like that, you got to keep on a short leash
if you're a religious leader. You can't let him get out of hand because they lead you into the
Missouri modern war. And that you commandments from God have to revelations from God have to
just come down to one guy because of profit in the kitchen. You broke up has to come down to one guy.
Because when you are getting revelations from God, you can only have one profit in the kitchen
or else the whole dinner is ruined. So Bryce, what happens? I mean,
we're building up to this. What happens? So Sidney Rigdon, Joe tries to
Sidney Rigdon. So with Sidney Rigdon, Joe tries to push him out of leadership roles as much as he
possibly can to minimize his power because Sidney Rigdon, that blessing back in 1834,
right before Zion's camp that Sidney Rigdon was to be president of the church in Joseph Smith's
absence, which meant if Joseph Smith dies or something bad happens to him, a piano drops on him
from a skyscraper, Sidney Rigdon is the president of the church. He had rightful claim. He was one
of the first people to have a rightful claim to the church. He was a massive threat. But like you
said, David, you can't have too many profits in the kitchen, but everybody has to do their job in
the kitchen, right? So Brigham Young is the numbers guy. He's the ledger watcher. He's the
accountant. He's the guy that keeps things going. He oils the machines. Sidney Rigdon is the guy who
stands up on the front. He's the facade. He is the one who is able to preach and to move and sway
the masses. And he's a close friend of Joseph Smith for over a decade by this point, right?
And these people are so very close. The families are also very close. Phoebe Rigdon and Emma Smith
are very close friends as well. Their kids are good friends. And you know, the Rigdans are about a
decade older than Joseph and Emma. So their kids are also about a decade older than Joseph and Emma's
kids. So their kids have basically role models that they look up to the way that Rigdon was a
role model for Joseph Smith when they first teamed up, right? But then you also have to have
somebody who is going out there and who's shaking the hands and rubbing the elbows and getting the
you know, to agree to do what needs to be done, right? And that is the role for John C. Bennett.
And John C. Bennett on my podcast, I called him a Wreck-It Bennett because this guy,
he set up the church for absolute total complete success and then drove a wrecking ball through
the whole damn thing. And I want to introduce John Bennett because he sent a couple of letters to
Joseph and Sidney Rigdon in commerce and Quincy and didn't get any reply. So finally,
in August of 1840, he sent this letter. He said, respected friends, I have written you several
communications to commerce and Navu supposing they were different places, but a brother to a
lady in your community now in this place informs me that they are one and the same. So commerce
was about to become the Navu. They were calling it Navu even before it was officially declared
he said, I have received no reply to my letters and attribute the delay to a press of business or
professional absence, which is fair. Everybody was crazy busy at this time. I have come to the
conclusion to join your people immediately and take up my abode with you. Let us adopt our motto,
as God was with our fathers, so may he be with us. And if you read John Bennett's expose,
he peppers in Latin the whole way through and it is so grinding. I read his expose with commentary
for my patrons on my patreon, patreon.com slash naked Mormon is a girl. But it reveals kind of
this guy's charm, right? And he was a powerful, well connected guy. He become quartermaster general
of the state of Illinois, which once again, that means, you know, he's cute. He controls all the
weapons and all the armaments that the state owns for the entire state militia. So John C. Bennett
comes to Joseph Smith approaches him in, I believe he arrives in September or October of 1840 and
says, Hey, I'm here. I sent you a couple letters. I don't know if you got them, but hey, you and I
can be friends. And they become real fast friends. And they move in with each other really, really
fast friends. Now, John C. Bennett, one of the reasons why Mormon historians and when I say Mormon
historians, I mean Mormon historians, people who are historians who are also believers that
Joseph Smith is the prophet of God, they make John Bennett out to be this the scoundrel, this
absolute monster. And they're predicate or they're using as evidence for that the fact that he was
kicked out of a Masonic lodge for unchristian like conduct with a woman, and that he went to
Nauvoo claiming to be a single man while he was actually married and had a kid that he had abandoned.
Yes, in Ohio. Yes, absolutely. And Emma couldn't stand him because he was just the kind of sleazy
slippery opportunities, oily opportunists that Joe always surrounded himself with.
Yeah, she recognized it, right? Like Emma had good instincts. She was smart. She was a good Mason.
She understood that Bennett was not somebody to to mess with and that he was he was going to be a
problem for the church. While he's really useful now, all the the good that he's giving the church,
you're going to have to pay all that back somehow with bad karma. It's going to it's going to happen.
She recognized that he was going to be a problem. Yeah, and this story again, we've seen it already
before. We'll see it again. This is the story of Joseph Smith. Yeah. Yeah, but John Bennett really is
is kind of the crowning figure of all these people who joined the church, who become disenchanted,
and then go on a tirade against Joseph Smith, right? Like those people were early, early on with
Ezra Booth and with Dr. Philastase Furrow, but and and then with Dr. Samson of Art and Thomas
Marsh in the Missouri Mormon War. John Bennett really is the the culmination of all of these.
And he was also the quickest, right? He joined real quick. He lived with the Smith family.
They lived together in the same home, like 18 months in a log home, basically in commerce.
And well, he rose to incredible heights. And the first thing that Joe did with the Bennett is
recognizing how well connected Bennett was. He gave John Bennett a task. Make this a city.
That was it. Make this a city. Make commerce a real city. So what John Bennett did in light of that
was his first Sunday after he was baptized into the church, he spoke to in General Conference
in October, General Conference 1840. And he talked about the propriety and the need of making a city,
of incorporating a spring field charter spring. He talked about the the need for a city.
He talked about the the need and propriety of incorporating the city of Nauvoo. So he went
and found the Springfield Illinois Charter. And he copied the whole thing over. And then he added
a couple of little special lines to it. This is a little special sauce. John Bennett's special
sauce into the the Springfield Charter. And this was called the Nauvoo Charter. And he took it
personally to the Illinois State Legislature. And they rubber stamped it through, because it was
just yet another city charter. They had already passed, I think it was like 35 other city charters
that year. It was just another city charter. Sure. Cool. No, the Mormons want a city here.
Boom. Passed. You're good. You got a city charter. We want to get into the fine print
for that city charter just yet. I would love to get into the fine print. I'm so glad you asked,
David. I would love to. I would absolutely love to. Okay, so this city charter, like I said,
it was copy pasted from Springfield. And people knew that like, city charter, we just copy and
paste from another one. It's gonna pass. It's gonna pass. But I should read it. They just pass it.
It's gonna pass. It's gonna pass. I'm sorry, guys. It's gonna pass, right? It's like,
just like politicians today, they don't read it. They're just gonna pass it, right? Because it's
just like every other city charter. They've seen 30 of these other things come through the
legislature this year. They're not gonna pay attention to this one. They don't care.
Exactly. Click here to accept. So what the novel charter did, it was just like any other city
charter. It gave the city power to levy taxes to impose fines. Also, it created a whole city
government. So mayor, vice mayor, counselors, alderman, so on and so forth. Yeah. And well,
there are a couple of special provisions. One was a writ of habeas corpus. habeas corpus is a
federally constitutional right. And in most states, constitutions as well, it was pretty rare for a
city to write in its own habeas corpus clause into its own city charter. But that became real
useful to Joseph Smith, because he got arrested a lot while he was in Navu. And he had the power to
basically habeas corpus himself out of any legal problem. It was just brilliant. That's gonna come
back in case you didn't catch on to the heavy-handed foreshadowing. Another provision, it created a
number of associations. And these various associations are like the Manufacturing and
Agricultural Association, the City Association, the Streets Association. One of these was the
Navu House Association. So Joe had been burned when he started printing money. So he came up with a
different idea to print money. Back with the Curtin Safety Society, he printed bank charter notes
that he didn't get the bank charter. Anti-banking society notes. Not a bank. It's an anti-banking
society. Thank you, David. And when that didn't work, it collapsed, he decided to instead make a
hotel that people buy stock into. It's the Navu House. The Navu House was to be the premiere
hotel of Navu. And right from last episode, we saw the layout of Navu and where it is on this
jetty on the Mississippi. And there's a huge landing area right there, right next to the
Navu House. This is a big house, right? Big, big tavern in whatever you want to call it, hotel.
And it's, well, sort of completed construction. And it's owned by the community of Christ today,
the RLDS Church. So the Navu House was commissioned and it was created. And there was a committee
formed for the construction of the Navu House. Well, in order to fund the Navu House, they
basically wrote stock certificates for it. And Joseph Smith commanded, by revelation,
people to buy stocks in the Navu House Association. Now, I want to find this in the actual charter
itself, because it talks about, actually, I, well, okay, so it talks about, yeah, so I'm just,
you know, there are a ton of sections in the Navu Charter to direct market houses,
to license or regulate theater and exhibitions, porters and fix the rate of porterage,
you know, these various things that are very important things. Actually, where I need to go
for the Navu House Association is actually not the Navu City Charter, but Doctrine and Covenants.
Now, talking about this last episode, right? Doctrine and Covenants are Joseph Smith's personal
revelations. Well, when Navu was created, John Bennett got the Navu City Charter passed. That
was the secular component of the government of Navu, right? And it should be noted that everybody
in the Navu government, they were all Mormons, right? It was Joseph's theocracy is what he wanted
all along. It was now an incorporated city that was a theocracy all run by his cronies, right?
So that's the secular component, but Joseph needed a theological component to it as well. So,
in January, when the Navu Charter went into effect January 1841, Joe also produced his longest
revelation, which is Doctrine and Covenants section 124. Now, we're gonna see if I can find, let's see,
that's all. The fascinating thing about reading Doctrine and Covenants is, like the Book of Mormon
itself, it reads like King James Version fanfare. And it's so crazy because it's juxtaposed with
talking about the United States, talking about this guy here. I think my favorite part of that
is where he talks about, I want to say it's George Miller, who he says, now, basically,
there's the Lord saying, he's not full of guile, he's a good guy, you should trust him, stop hating on
him. Don't you people buy name? Good guy? Oh, no, he's fine. It's great. See Lord Jehovah giving
him his oh thumbs up, okay, it's like, you can trust this guy says I, the Lord of Hosts.
Well, and to be clear, right, so there are 136 revelations in the modern Salt Lake City,
LDS, Doctrine and Covenants. Joseph Smith gave way more than 136 revelations, those are just the
ones that have been canonized. So this is 124 in the modern iteration of the Doctrine and Covenants,
right? But there are also a ton of non-canonized revelations that he also gave with the same
level of authority that just never were agreed upon scripture by the church at large. So
God apparently didn't have enough votes for that to be an actual scripture.
I don't know how that works. I don't, it's the minutiae, I don't, whatever, it doesn't matter.
But yeah, so if listeners are interested, another one of my podcast projects is My Book of Mormon
podcast. And that was started by David Michael, who read through the Book of Mormon with a
commentary, you know, an atheist reads the Book of Mormon.
But he brought me on to read through. An atheist reads the Book of Mormon.
An atheist reads through the Book of Mormon, it's classic comedy shtick, it's great. But he brought
me on to help him read through the Doctrine and Covenants because if you're reading it without
the history, it sucks, it sucks so bad. But if you read it with like the Joseph Smith papers
pages, the biography pages open of the people that are mentioned by name in there, and you know
the history of early Mormonism, the Doctrine and Covenants are an invaluable resource for history.
And they're super fascinating. So my co-host and I, Marie, we read through all of the Doctrine and
Covenants and all of the uncandanized revelations and all of the RLDS revelations, which are,
is the other largest faction, instead of the Brighamitesolic City Church, there's the RLDS
now, Community of Christ. So we read through a bunch of the revelations with historical context.
So if you want to hear all about Jacob being English, coming through Joseph Smith's mouth
in the 1830s and 40s, my Book of Mormon podcast. Anyway, it really is, it sounds boring, it's a
lot of fun. Anyways, so he talks about Nauvoo House and it's in modern day D&C 124 verse 60.
Therefore, that my servant Joseph and his seed after him have place in that house from generation
to generation forever and ever sayeth the Lord. So this is a hotel that's going to remain a family
business in perpetuity throughout the universe in legal parlance. And let the name of that house
say that again. Hey Bryce, who owns that hotel now? The Smith family, the Smith family's church,
they own it. Yeah, that's RLDS. It says, and let the name of that house be called Nauvoo House and
let it be delightful habitation for man and a resting place for the weary traveler that he may
contemplate the glory of Zion and the glory of this of the cornerstone thereof that he may
receive also the counsel from those whom I have set to be as plants of renown and as watchmen upon
her walls. And I shall have four stars sayeth the Lord. Yeah, no, Satan has given him some one star
reviews. Yeah, and coincidentally, it so happens that all of the hotel staff are Joseph's teenage
wives. It's great. It's great. Weird. That is a fair and right in place of great joy.
This, if there is any passage from the Doctrine of Covenants that reveals the mind of Joseph Smith
better than this, I haven't found it. Behold verily, I say unto you, let my servant George Miller,
he said, David, right, and my servant Lyman White and my servant John Snyder and my servant Peter
Hawes organize themselves and appoint one of them to be a president over their quorum for the
purpose of building that house. So here's the Navu House temp or the Navu House building committee,
right? And they shall form a constitution whereby they may receive stock for the bill.
And they shall not receive dollars for a share of stock in that house and they shall be permitted.
Go back for a second. The stock and then they shall receive what? Yeah.
And they shall not receive less than $50 for a share of stock in that house and they shall be
permitted to receive $15,000 from any one man for stock in that house, but they shall not be permitted
to receive over $15,000 stock from any one man and they shall not be permitted to receive under
$15 for a share of stock from any one man in that house. So needless to say,
God has taken a lot of very specific interest in the Navu Hotel that is Joseph Smith's hotel.
It's amazing. It's amazing. It's so amazing. God declared the stock prices of a hotel
that wasn't even built in Navu. And they shall be paid on the front end, not onto the back end,
as so said by the Lord. It's so absurd. It's just so absurd. Because we can see it's like,
Joe, you don't have to say that God is telling you this stuff. You just draft up a house
charter. Just make the articles of incorporation for this little house stock project.
God doesn't have to set the stock price for you, buddy. You can be a businessman without being the
God man. And yay, onto the operation department. This is my command on to thee.
Therefore, let my marketing department go out on two-year missions at the age of 19.
So the Navu House and all of these other city organizations were created with the
Navu Charter. And John Bennett was basically, no, I think the second John Bennett was basically
the Jared Kushner of Joseph Smith's kingdom, right? He was given every job. He had to do
every single thing. And he was just, you know, he was just the best guy for the job,
for every single job that you might need. You need peace in the Middle East. Just call up John
Bennett. You need a vaccine for the Rona. Just call up John Bennett, right?
So they created all of these things. They are in the presidency.
The Secretary of the University, Secretary of the Masonic Lodge, started back to the beginning.
Start back. I was talking over you, sorry. No worries. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Get this. In short
order, Joseph made him Assistant President of the Church, Counselor in the First Presidency,
Mayor of Navu, Chancellor of its University, Secretary of the Navu Masonic Lodge, and Leader
of the Navu Legion, and Leader of the Navu Legion, their militia. That sounds interesting
because there's a key detail in the red flags. He was kicked out of the Masonic Lodge in another
place. So now they're putting him in charge of one in this protected bubble of a Masonic Lodge
within the Navu District. So this is interesting. It's almost like he's appealing to this Bennett
guy's emotions, too, and he's playing this guy because, you know, Joseph Smith's pretty good
at this as well. And he's saying, look, you'll be in charge of your own Masonic Lodge. Forget
getting kicked out of one. We'll start our own. It's almost like. And just Joseph Smith's, the
history of the Masonic Lodge in Navu is fascinating, too. But we're getting ahead of ourselves.
Yeah. Well, maybe we can, we can try and get into that a little bit. But yeah, so the
the whole history of intertwining of Masonry and Mormonism is really fascinating at the
foundations of it, especially with Joseph's, you know, like first official plural wife was
like an anti Masonic celebrity. Still, needless to say, though, like this Navu charter granted
Joseph Smith and John Bennett total power in Navu. And right, it also created the city council
that was staffed by all these counselors and alderman, who were all Joseph Smith cronies,
vice mayor, and Joseph Smith cronies. They were these these guys were all Joseph Smith cronies.
John Bennett was named mayor of the city, Joseph Smith, vice mayor, and also created in this
Navu charter was, as you said it, David, the Navu Legion, right? Um, this is this is something
that is truly baffling to me, right? Joseph Smith was in Liberty Jail because he committed treason.
He raced his own army and waged war against the state militia. People died back and forth. Yeah,
people died from that. He was he was in prison for treason, arson, murder, robbery, larceny, like
he was in prison for raising his own army. And then the state legislature of Illinois
the legislature was like, yeah, what's the worst that could happen? Let's give them their own army.
The Missourians at this time must have been losing their minds that just
this is happening. Yeah, it's it's it's crazy to me, right? And there's they're still neighboring
Missouri, right? Like, Navu is a two day ferry ride down the river to St. Louis, right? Like
yeah, yeah, Illinois. And like, and also there's so much politics going in and this as well,
right? Because like, Illinois was like a much more progressive northern state. Missouri was like
those slave hole in Democrats. This is, you know, this is only 15 years before the civil war, right?
Like this 20 years still, like there's a lot of politics that's going on between Governor
Lilburn Boggs and Governor Thomas Carlin in all of this too. And like trying to try to, you know,
Thomas Carlin, if he can get the Mormon vote, he knows that he's going to be the most powerful
politician in Illinois. And yeah, if you are governor, you're really king of Illinois and king
of Missouri. Yeah. Yeah, I am. And also notable as well in all of it, in all of this, right?
There was the commission, the fact finding commission that was created, right? So when
Joseph Smith was arrested in the Missouri Mormon War, all of his boys went to jail.
They had the court of inquiry, which was just to determine if the state had enough evidence to
proceed with an investigation to collect evidence. They heard the verdict of that court of inquiry
was that we are moving forward with prosecution, which meant that they had to assemble a fact
finding committee to go out and collect affidavits and get statements from everybody and, you know,
try and take sketchings and find all the information that they possibly can and collect
letters and other documents and compile it all into basically a Joseph Smith and Mormon dossier
of like, this is everything that the court is going to need to know in the coming prosecution
against the Mormon leadership. Well, the leadership escaped for their jury trial, right? They fled
the state, they were gone and the Mormons had been kicked out of Missouri. So those documents
weren't useful to the state of Missouri anymore, unless they could get Joe back in the state
boundaries of Missouri, because then they could, you know, actually try him on all those charges
and send him to the gallows. So Joe never stepped foot back in Missouri for that reason. Anyway,
so this fact finding committee, they compiled all of their stuff and they gave it to the Missouri
courts. The Missouri courts sat on them for two years, because they were just waiting to be able
to arrest Joseph Smith to get him extradited from Illinois into Missouri so that they could try him.
When it became the case that they thought that he was never going to come back,
they published them as a standalone document. When it became the case,
when it became the case that they didn't think they were going to be able to prosecute Joseph Smith,
they published all those documents as a standalone booklet, basically, not a booklet, but a book.
And you can find it on the Missouri website or the Missouri government website today in their
archives. They have the whole folder uploaded. I used it for my Missouri Mormon War episodes
on naked Mormonism, right? Like you can find the whole document stash is digitized to this day,
but it was published and widely disseminated, which serves to be a voice of warning to Illinois
that, hey, this is what happened to us in Missouri. Fair warning. Here's all the documents that you
need to be scared of the Mormons, but that was published in 1841. The Nauvoo Charter granting
the Mormons their own militia and their own court system and their own power of taxes.
And Joseph Smith as vice mayor of his own little theocratic fiefdom went into effect in January
of 1841. Just a few months before all those documents were published. Can you imagine had it
been the other way around, you know, Mormon history would be very different, I think.
Right. Because if the state legislature wouldn't have or would have read those documents
and would not have approved the Nauvoo Charter, the Mormons couldn't have settled. Who knows
what they would have done who they might have began their exit as West from that point forward
and just headed straight over to the Rockies to Texas or to Mexico or to Oregon or to California.
Yeah.
So all of this is to say that the Nauvoo Charter granted extreme powers to Joseph Smith. And
when I talked about this on my podcast, I called it God mode a joke because it's like he put in
all of the cheat codes of invincibility and unlimited ammo and money. And, you know, like he
unlocked Godhood by passing this Nauvoo Charter and his the guy who's oversaw and made sure it
passed was all John C. Bennett. And fun little fact, because this is Illinois politics in the 1840s,
after the Nauvoo Charter was passed and voted on and passed almost unanimously,
John Bennett went to a tea totaler party and drank tea
in Douglas and Abraham Lincoln. Who are congratulating a tea party with who?
A tea totaler tea party. Those are, you know, anti anti alcohol people, right? He went to the tea
party with Stephen Douglas and with Abraham Lincoln, right? Those those were kind of like
pretty important presidential candidates in American history. These guys were both at the
very early stages of their political careers in Illinois, right? Like it's the windy city because
some of the nation's most well known politicians have come out of Illinois. And yeah, so Stephen
Douglas and Abraham Lincoln were there at a tea party congratulating John Bennett on him passing
the Nauvoo Charter for the Mormons. Fascinating stuff. Holy moly, man. So what happens, Bryce?
We've got so limited time to go through the Nauvoo area and I era and I wish we had more time,
but you do all this on your podcast. Get us start moving us in the direction you think we need to
go with this Bennett guy and Joseph Smith. They've got their own city. They have their own. You can't
touch us by the Constitution of the United States now. They can get away with whatever practically
it appears, but it sounds like it isn't a happily ever after. Crap starts to hit the fan or things
get better. Do things get better for now and then like to help me out here? Take me through
this world. Well, it's complicated in case you haven't picked that up. Maybe it's time for us
to move into the polygamy and theology of this that's coming out of this time and do a quick
catch up. Well, let's actually let's introduce a couple more figures into all of this, right? So
this trove of documents from the Missouri Mormon War is published and a certain guy takes notice
and his name is Thomas Sharp. And Thomas Sharp sees that all these Mormons are moving in. He
reads these documents and says, Whoa, these people are like actually dangerous. What is going on here?
So the Navu Charter is passed and goes into effect January 1841. And in April of 1841,
the Mormons decide to lay another temple cornerstone. Because every time they've done that,
it's gone so well, so awesome for everybody involved. But the Navu Legion was created by
decree of the Navu Charter and service was compulsory. So the Mormons didn't have the
resources, meaning the all enough weapons and enough uniforms and enough everything to supply
the Mormons with their arms. But they did have power to force them to drill and to parade. So
April 6 1841 comes along. There's a military parade during which they lay the cornerstone
of the Navu Temple. And all these guys now, right, they're they're they're a ragtag army.
They're they're dressed up in whatever their best clothes that they can get or whatever they
were able to bring with them from Missouri. But because John Bennett was quartermaster general
of the state of Illinois, he supplied them with thousands of guns. So suddenly this Mormon militia
is supplied by state arms. They may not have uniforms, they may not have their own uniforms,
but they got guns. So on this cornerstone laying ceremony day, this guy, Thomas Sharp,
he had just read the trove of documents about the Missouri Mormon War. And he hears that there's
going to be a parade in Navu. And he goes in his head lines are all caps after that. Yes,
exactly. Exactly. I wish this guy had a Twitter handle. I would love to go back and read it.
Um, so yeah, so he's he's also a publisher of his own paper called the Warsaw signal, right?
And it went through a couple of different names. It was like the Western signal and then
are the Western something, the Western star, I can't remember anyway, but it was the Warsaw
signal and then it changed again. And then it was revived again as the Warsaw signal. So this
guy, Thomas Sharp is the editor of the publisher of this Warsaw signal. So he realizes the Mormons
are dangerous. And then he attends this temple cornerstone laying ceremony. And he sees 2000
armed Mormons parading up and down the streets of this makeshift. What a year ago was a swamp
land with a couple of, you know, log huts and a stone building. Now is a flourishing community
who they are digging their own canal through the center of town to divert water from the Mississippi
and create an industrial and shipping district. They're they're bringing in immigrants from Europe
and all over from Canada from the Eastern States from Missouri and from New York and from Ohio
and Pennsylvania. They're bringing all of these people in. They have the ear of Thomas Carlin,
the governor of the state, the king of the state. They have a bunch of politicians in their pockets.
The Mormons are pushing and pulling a lot of leverage with John C. Bennett being so well connected.
And now they have another military and Thomas Sharp goes back to Warsaw, which is another,
you know, a neighboring town and loses his mind and says, this is dangerous. We have to pay attention
to this. And the Mormons become the central focus of every one of his his papers from that point
forward. And Thomas Sharp is an important figure in all of this, right? Because he created
local newspapers. We talk about how the press is the fourth, the fourth pillar of our democracy.
Local newspapers are where the foundations of those pillars are, right? It's local newspapers
that the AP gets all of its information from and then puts it together and disseminates stories to
nationally syndicated news agencies. Grassroots, small independent community press companies
are where real journalism is done. Thomas Sharp was the guy responsible for this.
And he became a frequent target of the Mormons to the point that the press,
the Joe's younger brother, William Smith ran. Every time they talked about Thomas Sharp,
he printed Tom Ass, capital A S S Tom Ass Sharp in the Mormon periodical. It's funny because it
turned his name into a swear word. You get it? Nothing has changed. Mormons are so great with
nicknames. Oh, my God. So that's another figure to introduce into all of this. And with the
Nauvoo City unlocked to Joseph Smith and John Bennett, they are able to establish a theocracy.
And from that point forward, like, life is great. Life is great for these guys. And by 1841,
the missionaries, the apostles who went to Europe preaching and establishing Brigham Young
established the immigration funds and got, you know, a systematized way for European converts
to immigrate to Nauvoo. They come back by they start trickling back by spring and summer of 1841.
And most of them are back by November, December. And at that point, Brigham Young realizes that
there's a lot going on under the surface that he wasn't aware of. And a lot of that happens to include
polygamy. And he's like, give me some of that. And then under Brigham Young's advisement, Joseph
Smith begins creating the anointed quorum in the endowment and creating basically tests of loyalty
for people who are members of the church who are in leadership positions of the church,
but who can actually be trusted. And that carries us kind of into the end of 1841 and into early
1842, essentially. And when you see what some of these loyalty tests are, it you will lose your
mind. Oh, it's fun. It's fun. Okay, well, take me into the next step that you can think of. And
we're going to have to cliffhang here in about 10 minutes, literally. Right. Okay. So Joe gets a
couple of powerful friends, powerful and useful friends as converts of the church. And John Bennett
was one of these guys, but they were constantly guys kind of flocking in and joining the church.
Another of these guys is William Law. And William Law has a brother, Wilson Law, and also a wife,
Jane Law. Now these are converts who lived in Canada. And they were basically caretakers of
a couple of orphan girls, Sarah and Maria Lawrence. And they, they immigrated from Canada to Navu.
They converted in 1837 or 36, I want to say, but they remained in Canada
until after the Missouri Mormon War. So they missed out on all of the barrel of laughs that
was Missouri in 1838. But they, they arrived into Quincy in 1839 when it was just the destitute
Mormons there. And William Law was one of these people who became very useful and very helpful
to the people. He was generally a very well-beloved person in the community. And at that point,
Joseph Smith named him as co-president of the church. And part of the reason for this is
part of the reason. No, part of the reason, not as co-president of the church, a counselor to the
president, I mean, part of the reason that William, who originally had it, Frederick G. Williams,
sorry, part of the reason, part of the reason why Joe elevated William Law to this position was
the first guy, his health was waning. This guy was Frederick G. Williams. And we talked about
him early on. He was a botanical physician. He is the guy who I think supplied Joseph Smith
with the psychedelics to give the Mormons the spiritual experiences they sought.
This guy was getting old in years. And he was, he was not very healthy for being a physician,
unfortunately. And he was pulling further and further away from the church in his older age
and eventually died in 1842, which is kind of sad because he was an important figure.
A lot of the revelations that we have from Joseph Smith are written in this guy's handwriting,
Frederick G. Williams. But his office had to be replaced by William Law. So William Law became
co-president of the church along with Sidney Rigdon. Those are the counselors to the president
of the church. So Joseph Smith is the figurehead. He's the middle, sorry, Joseph Smith. And
Frederick G. Williams was his left-hand man. That's not William Law. His right-hand man
is Sidney Rigdon, right? And these are, you know, so William Law now becomes a very close confinon
of Joseph Smith. And he's somebody who is generally of good moral character. But he just
needs to be kind of pushed and convinced to do something instead of just, you know, coming up
with the idea and going along with it the way that John Bennett did. Right? So there's this figure.
There's also William Clayton, right? And I talked about William Clayton. His journal is still being
suppressed by the church to this day. But we know a lot of what went on with Joseph Smith's life
in Nauvoo because of William Clayton. This guy was a convert. And he sailed over and arrived in
Nauvoo in 1841. And he was quickly appointed to be Joseph Smith's personal scribe. And like,
he records in his journal conversations that he had with Emma about what he's supposed to do with
his new kid that came from his not actually wife, is not his legal wife, but his polygamist wife.
And she's like, you take her in like she's daughter from your first wife. Are you kidding?
You're an idiot. Like, but William Clayton was generally a good guy. He was just very diligent
and very, you know, you follow the rules. And he was also always writing. The guy was a scribe and he
is the most important figure for historians in Nauvoo history because he recorded
everything, everything in that journal of his that is still locked away in the church's first
like what golden gyms are still hiding in the archives in Salt Lake City? Is it when I just
think of the things that got leaked out accidentally, it's like, wow, it's yeah, yeah.
Should you mention a few things that got leaked or I mean, are we not there yet?
Well, for instance,
let's not do that yet because we are going to be talking about a couple things. But definitely
when we get into a more modern, more modern period, there's some doozies that were locked up there.
And there were stuff that this kills me that they didn't realize they had. And so they were
like, okay, no, no, no, we're getting it way ahead of ourselves.
I mean, we're talking 1840s. David Fitzgerald is here in the 1980s. Come on, man, that's a little
ahead. The Hoffman affair blows my mind that they survived that. But you know, look at the Catholic
Church. Yeah, right, right, exactly. Yeah, so if people are interested, let me actually pull this
book down. This is from my on top of my Xbox bookshelf. My Xbox has become a bookshelf lately.
This is an intimate chronicle, and it is written by George D. Smith of the Smith
Pettit Foundation. And basically what it is, is it's all of William Law's journals that we have.
And his journal is not locked away in the vaults in the church, right? Right. So
quick point of clarification, right? So William Clayton kept a number of journals.
He kept his journal after he was converted to the church and remained in leadership positions
in Liverpool. He was a businessman there, basically a ledger, watcher type of guy.
And that journal has been published by the William Clayton Foundation, you know, his family.
There's his Overland Trail Journal, which is his journal that he kept while he was going
across the plains into Utah. There's a journal that he kept in 1852 when he went on a mission,
and a number of other journals that are all, you know, collected in here that have all been
published. They're all published, they're all open, they're all available in totality for everybody
to look at. But his Nauvoo Journal is the one that is in the church vaults that they refuse
to publish. All we have are leaked passages from it. So this book chronicles every leaked passage
that we have from historians about that Nauvoo Journal. And the leak passages are.
If there's any closet, NYU grad students out there, this is what you need to go get
to your doctor. No, BYU grad students don't have access to this anymore, right? Like if anybody,
even historians, even church historians who try to get this, it says it's close to research, right?
The only people who have been able to see this today, maybe Andy E. today, I doubt it though.
I know Dean Jesse saw it, but he passed away recently, I believe. Very few people have actually
seen that journal in its pure true form. The church has been kind enough that when people quote
passages from the Nauvoo Journal, that they will verify that the passage is accurate,
they will do that. But that is as far as historians have access to when it claims Nauvoo Journal,
because it's so damn controversial. Well, that's the thing. Do they have an official reason why
they're not? Why it is under lock and key? Because that's fascinating.
It's to protect the identities of polygamy, basically. That's it. It's sensitive temple
material. And the church can say that and does say that about a lot of Utah documents that these
are documents that relate to ceilings and temple marriages. And it's not secret, it's sacred,
okay. That's why we're keeping it under lock and key.
And as far as bullshit cover of excuses go, that's not too bad. That's pretty plausible.
Sure. Cool. If you think so. I don't think so. I don't see anything as sacred, right?
Yeah. So guys, we're wrapping it up here. We're at the end of the hour. We're at the end of the
hour. You guys got to say something at the very end here. Leave them hanging. I'll close this out.
Right. Next up. So Joe decided that it was now important to create a systematized version
of a basically like a hangout, a group hangout of only the people who are allowed in
are people who know about polygamy and who are trusted enough to keep their lips shut.
So Joseph Smith introduces the endowment ceremony. And this happens just seven weeks after he
at site by seven weeks after this happened just seven weeks after Joseph Smith was granted
the position of master Mason at site by a controversial figure.
But wait, Bryce, didn't they just build the Masonic temple?
Yeah, they did. But the master mentioned it now. The Illinois Masonic Lodge base in
Springfield didn't want to grant Nauvoo a Masonic charter. They didn't want to do it.
They were afraid that it was only for political purposes. They were right to fear that because
it was. But they thought if Nauvoo gets a lodge installed there, we don't have enough
good masons there that we know that we know will keep the lodge there on the right path.
We think that they'll use it for spurious masonry or for political masonry basically.
They'll steal all our secret handshakes, et cetera, and put them into their own rituals.
Exactly. Kind of weird how that works, right? So this guy
is...
I got to find his... I got to find his name.
He's trailed him. He's trailed him.
I'm just... I can't remember all of the names of all of the people.
Abraham Jonas. Sorry about that. All right.
Abraham Jonas was a master mason who visited Illinois in March of 1842.
And he was like, hey, these Mormons aren't so bad. I am going to unilaterally grant you a
charter to build a masonic lodge here. And they did. And in order to do that, you have to have
a grandmaster and you have to create all of the titles. And you have to establish the hierarchy
of the masonic hierarchy in a city. So Abraham Jonas did that. And he granted master mason status
to a bunch of early... of these early Mormon leaders. And Joseph Smith was one of them.
And that installed a masonic lodge in Nauvoo.
Now, this...
Instead of doing 30 years of jumping through hoops to gift your masonic order, he did it overnight.
Instantly.
And that pissed off a lot of masons nationwide, right? Because these guys,
they were doing stuff that a lot of masons didn't agree with that was bringing a lot of publicity
to what these guys are doing. And now they have a powerful mason who is, you know, essentially
running their city as mayor, John Bennett, a very well-connected mason who was expelled from a lodge
who was basically running the city and give it all sorts of secrets to all these guys.
And a lot of them were already master masons before they joined the church. And now you're going
to see Joseph Smith wanted to create the American Lodge. He wanted to be the grandmaster of American
masonry. And other masons recognize that. And how do you do that? Well, by ascending a whole lot
of guys to master masons right off the bat. And that pissed off a lot of masons. Because like
masonry, you know, I don't hold any reverence for the organization. It's like many other
theological organizations and philosophical organizations. I don't care, right? But the
underpinnings of it are you achieve master mason status through years of dedication and study
and devotion to wisdom and acquiring knowledge and seeking out the truths that lie behind the
falsehoods of the reality we see around us. And Joe was just ascending guys to master mason
every day, every day, every day. And that by the time 1844 rolls around, there are more masons in
Nauvoo than there are in the entire state of Illinois. Only Illuminati Batman. Yeah, right.
Well, and Joe created his own ascendancy ritual and his own everything for people who could be
good masons. And Joseph said the secret to being a good mason is to keep a secret.
Right. Oh, wow. It's no wonder that the organization was appealing to this guy.
Oh, we don't talk about it.
Guys, we've come upon our hour. We've come upon our hour. I need you guys to tell me,
give the audience one thing to hang on to what we have coming on. What's coming? What's coming?
Next, next, violent sex. Well, by this time, by early 1842, John Bennett and Joseph Smith,
their relationship was souring. And your worst enemy is somebody who used to be your best friend.
And so, I guess, happily ever after the end. Yeah, totally. No problems. No problems after
that. Everything's great. Oh, man. I can't even imagine what's gonna happen.
Geez, this is every time. So you, you have to guess. You have to guess. Tell us what you think
down in the comments section. Ladies and gentlemen, Bryce Blankenagle, host of Naked
Mormonism podcast. He literally practices the title naked while he does the podcast. So,
and also, David Fitzgerald, author of the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion
and The Mormons. Make sure you guys go down, get that, become a patron. If you do, I might
ascend you to Master Masonry. Just, John, if you join, if you don't join and you can't contribute,
you just can't be a part of this thing. Okay. That's how it works nowadays anyway, right? So,
pay your way up to the top. We might even make you president of the United States.
Anyway, I'm just kidding. Yeah. What's that like? Reality is K to win. Yeah.
But anyway, with that being said, guys, let us know what you think. We love to hear what your
thoughts are down in the comments. Hit that like button, subscribe to the channel,
go subscribe to them, make sure you guys join their stuff, and don't forget, we are MythVision.
