Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Go ahead, get the book.
Come on, subscribe to his podcast.
We are MedVision.
Welcome back to MedVision Podcast, your host Derek Lambert.
Early Mormon history, like you've never seen it before,
with Bryce Blankenagle, he is the host of Naked Mormonism Podcast.
Guys, he literally gets naked while doing the podcast.
It makes it that much more effective.
And you guys just can tell.
You know, you can hear through the audio that he's naked.
I don't know how that's possible, but it happens.
I'm only actually wearing half a shirt right now.
Everything from here down?
Dude, I think that's a pretty few years right now.
You're doing the reverse of the magic underwear situation here.
That's right, yeah, that's right.
This is an interesting thing.
I'm starting to catch on to your little tactics.
I need a little baker's cap.
David Fitzgerald, one of the greatest, funniest guys I know of.
And he's so outgoing.
I'm serious, no joke, man.
You are the author of the Complete Heretics Guide
to Western Religion and the Mormons.
I've been butchering this, man.
And I keep saying early Mormonism.
And I keep thinking that's the author title of your book, I mean.
That's the book.
So that's the book.
Can't get it wrong.
And you were the forerunner to this.
And Bryce took this and went exhaustive into different areas.
So if you're interested in knowing when Sally Sue slept with Johnny Bob
on a Tuesday night at 9 p.m. and conceived of their twins,
you might want to check out the Nega and Mormonism podcast.
If you're interested in getting a great overview
and touching on the history of this cult leader,
definitely get the book and check out what David brings to the table
because even Bryce learned from him early on.
And he's so entertaining.
You guys take boring, complex.
I say boring for the typical person, by the way.
Not people like you.
Boring ideas.
And you make them come to life.
And you guys give them energy that they don't typically have
if you're reading a historical account or something.
And so that I seriously have to bow to you guys and say thank you so much
for joining me on this.
The last couple of shows we did, we talked about Joseph Smith in prison,
him in the exodus of his people.
The episode prior to that, he's betrayed by one of his own disciples.
One of you shall betray me.
Jesus talks about the same thing.
So I want you guys to just start, take us off from here.
We're about to get into polygamy.
And I don't even want to, I can't even start.
You guys know this is about to get real crazy.
We already have people dying and assassinations and treason
and government officials.
He's on his way to the president.
Okay, I will be silent from here on out.
I might interject here and there,
but I want to hear what you guys have to say.
So thank you so much for joining me.
Go in the description and get the stuff.
Do it.
Do what Derek says, everybody.
The thing is, I've read some of the comments as well,
the public comments at least,
not the private dams or anything that you've gotten, Derek,
but I've seen a number of people commenting of like,
I feel like this is an overview, but you're leaving so much out.
Can we please do them longer than an hour?
And it's like, if you know YouTube algorithms,
you know, you got to keep them a reasonable amount of time.
And we're also trying to accelerate through the,
you know, the 40 years of this person's life
in a very, very short period of time through this series.
And to chart Joseph Smith's progress,
as well as the progress and rise of his cult throughout
the time period from 1830 to 1844,
is you got to hit just the tops of the mountains.
It's really easy to get lost down rabbit trails
and in the valleys and David and I are no strangers to those things.
But what I guess what I would like to say is,
I'm drawn to Mormon history because it's endlessly fascinating
and it really is.
And it, whether you're looking at the high level overview,
like with David's book, right?
Like I remember when I was reading it,
I felt like I was being just ripped through space time
and hanging on by the edge of my fingertips,
white knuckling it because it was, it's so fast-paced.
It's so quick and it's such a comprehensive read of a huge timeline.
And you go well beyond the life of Joseph Smith.
You go all the way up to the modern church,
which is, you know, most historians are never capable of viewing
anything outside of like their little tiny scope of information.
But the more you zoom in, the more details you find,
the more interesting it is,
the more interesting you see the human qualities come out
about the various people that we talk about here.
And whether it's somebody betraying the prophet
or the prophet himself being stuck in prison
and writing his Liberty of the Jail love letters
or, you know, whatever the case may be,
there's, there are deep lessons
and there are deep human qualities
that we can tease out of this timeline.
And that's one of the main things that just drives me
to learn more about Mormon history every day.
It's literally my job.
You don't need pants to podcast.
So one person that I wanted to introduce last episode,
we didn't get a chance to introduce, is John Cook Bennett.
Dr. Bennett.
Dr. Bennett.
Dr. Bennett, Dr. John C. Bennett
is somebody who is, well, let's just say,
divisive and polarizing character in Mormon history.
Very, very complicated.
Now, he's an opportunist and he's been, you know,
the biographer who wrote the book about John C. Bennett,
called him St. Lee Scoundrel, the title of the book.
I tend to find a Joseph Smith and John C. Bennett
absolutely kindred spirits.
They are one and the same people.
Totally appease in the pod,
right down to the priority in their pants.
Yeah, absolutely.
Fair, fair point.
So John Bennett, he was also an herbal physician
and obstetrician.
And this is obviously going to become relevant
as we go further into the novel timeline here.
So in April to May of 1839,
Joseph Smith is able to escape jail.
And he gets to his Mormon settlement in Quincy, Illinois,
which is just right on the banks of the Mississippi.
Now, when you consider the logistics of, you know,
thousands of people being refugees in a small farming community,
it's a bad time for the Mormon population.
And nobody has any land to begin putting crops in the ground,
which is a huge problem,
because if they can't get crops in the ground that spring,
then how are they going to get through that upcoming winter?
So there's a lot of turmoil, a lot of chaos,
and also general lack of resources for people.
People don't have any medical care,
because there are just too many people
and the few doctors that are around
are completely overwhelmed
with all of the sickness, the dysentery, the starvation.
And, you know, it's a bad time.
It's a really, really bad time.
So the Mormons are flooding into this settlement
known as Quincy, Illinois, right on the Mississippi,
you know, drinking the Mississippi water.
There are logistical constraints.
A place to sleep, food to eat, and water to drink
are really, really strained
when you have thousands of people all filling a town
who was not expecting them.
So obviously, this is going to get some people interested
and bring a lot of people out of the woodworks.
One of the people, obviously, at this time,
Illinois was in a, it was spending in a deficit.
It was, the state itself was massively in debt.
Illinois, as we know it today,
Chicago is a powerhouse of industry and commerce.
Chicago at this time was like 2,200 people.
It wasn't the big, you know, it wasn't the Windy City yet, right?
That's another 30, 40 years down the road.
But Illinois itself was in, or as Illinoisans say it,
Illinois was at a massive deficit.
It was hugely in debt.
So the governor at the time, Thomas Carlin,
recognized that the Mormons coming here
was an opportunity for them to essentially
build a Mormon city.
And they're already right on the Mississippi.
This is the largest commercial river in America at the time.
This is before the Columbia became
the largest shipping river in America.
This is where all of American commerce,
especially the Gateway to the West, to the Western Settlements,
this is where it was happening right on the Mississippi.
And now you have thousands of people
who are plopped down here right on the banks of the Mississippi.
They need homes.
They need jobs.
They need to build a city.
They need schools.
They need doctor's offices.
They need markets.
They need churches.
They need everything that communities need.
This is an opportunity for Thomas Carlin
to help bring his state out of debt.
So Thomas Carlin ends up showing a lot of favor to the Mormons,
which was nice because the last governor said
that you can kick them out and get rid of them
and get them out of my state.
But it was also,
there's a lot of political machinations going on as well
because Illinois was largely a Northern Whig state at the time.
The Whig party was founded as the big city type of political party,
whereas the Democrat party was the Jacksonian Democrat party.
The state's rights, the slavery, the Southern Democratic party.
So Missouri was a Democrat state.
They were the northernmost slave holding state.
Illinois was a Whig state.
This is the political divide that we would see today
between what New York and Maine know, California and Texas.
Like that's the political divide that we're seeing here.
So Carlin is basically showing deference to the Mormons
or favoritism to the Mormons in order to get them to settle in his state,
which is something that they needed.
They needed somebody to extend an olive branch and show good faith
in hopes that they could settle and live in peace.
But Joseph Smith isn't interested in peace.
He's interested in world domination.
So that's going to be a bit of an impasse that we're going to come to.
So I'm going to pull up a picture of John Bennett here.
I think I need a screen sharing capabilities here.
But John C. Bennett was one of these opportunist guys who figured out,
hey, all of the Mormons, they're in real bad shape.
I need to capitalize on this opportunity.
And this is him, right?
And this is from the church's owned Joseph Smith papers project
where they've digitized a huge collections of Joseph Smiths
and documents related to Joseph Smith.
And all of the documents are associated here.
It would look like Napoleon if he had turned vampire.
Exactly.
Oh, and he was also, he had military training.
So he obviously was very appealing to Joseph Smith.
He was also a bit of a polymath.
He kind of had a diverse and eclectic interest,
including herbal remedies and a bit of magic and occultism as well.
And, you know, he was also just generally kind of a bastard.
He just generally wasn't a great guy.
So he was also an opportunist.
And he was one of these people who decided,
hey, I see the Mormons are destitute.
I smell an opportunity.
So in 1839, while the Mormons are settling,
this guy, John Bennett, actually has a bit of a name for himself
in the state of Illinois and in national politics.
At this time, he was quartermaster general of the Illinois,
the entire state militia, which means that he was Q, right?
He handled all the weapons, all of the cannons,
all of the, he was the, he was the logistics guy
when it came to all of the state's artillery and guns and everything like that.
Which, of course, was really great for Joseph Smith,
because the Mormons needed guns because
Missouri just stolen all their guns, right?
So John Bennett sends a letter to Joseph Smith and says,
hey, I sympathize with your people and your plight.
I would love to, you know, see what is going on
and convert to your church.
And he does.
Bennett goes to
Nauvoo, it wasn't Nauvoo at the time.
It was commerce.
And he meets with Joseph Smith and they hit it off.
Life was great for these guys.
It was awesome.
Oh, it's interesting.
His wife did not like John Bennett from the get-go,
but they got along awesomely.
Awesome.
And also worth noting, so I was actually mistaken, it was 1840,
not 1839, that's actually a very important detail.
So we're getting a little ahead of ourselves with John Bennett here.
But you're right, David, Emma hated John Bennett.
She absolutely hated her.
And some of the other leadership didn't like him.
He was kind of a shifty-eyed guy.
But him and Joseph.
He was really good with the Smith 2.0, honestly.
Yeah, in some ways.
In some ways, he was the angel of Joseph's worst demons.
He was capable of doing what Joseph wanted to do,
but brazenly and openly because he wasn't the prophet.
So that involved all sorts of very seedy and dangerous things.
And John Bennett is going to figure heavily into the timeline of Nauvoo history here.
So this period, 1839 to 1840, it was a very complicated time
as the Mormons were settling in Quincy.
Because when Joe got out of prison, the first thing he did was
meet with all the Mormons, see their situation, and say,
wow, we know you need answers.
And the very next thing he did was go and tour various properties and purchase them.
Just handed Joseph a piece of paper and said,
hey, here's 20,000 acres.
Here's 500 acres.
Here's 200 acres, whatever.
He'd sign it.
He would absolutely sign everything that came across his desk.
And never filed a paperwork.
He just signed it.
But that opened up thousands of acres for the Mormons to settle on.
On both sides of the Mississippi.
So we have on one side is Commerce, Illinois,
and on the other side is Montrose, Illinois, or Montrose, Iowa Territory.
So I want to get us a visualization of this with Google Maps here.
And we can actually see kind of what this looks like.
Because the advantages that were available to the Mormons settling here are fantastic.
They're profound, right?
So this is Nauvoo.
But what at this time was Commerce.
It was a town with one stone building and a couple of log cabins.
And it was a swamp.
It was literally a swamp.
The Mississippi had flooded every spring, flooded the whole area.
It was just a huge, huge area, right?
So across the river, we have Montrose.
And this is the Iowa Territory here.
But if you look, here is our Mississippi, right?
This is the largest shipping river in America at the time.
And what Nauvoo is, is this wonderful little jetty out into the Mississippi.
So this provided fantastic opportunities to create the business districts
all along the banks of the Mississippi, as well as inns and taverns,
hotels for people to stay in.
Because when you're going down north or south on the Mississippi on steamers,
you would sometimes stay overnight in Warsaw or in Kiyokak.
Or if you're going further down, here's Quincy where the Mormons began settling.
But this all leads you down into St. Louis and all the way up here into Dubuque
and the Wisconsin Territory at the time.
And this is a huge possibility.
And they conceived of all sorts of really cool projects
to utilize their position, this jetty out into the Nauvoo Mississippi,
the Mississippi River, to benefit themselves from the Mississippi.
So Joseph Smith and John Bennett started getting real interested
in helping out each other here.
But once again, I'm getting ahead of myself, unfortunately.
So this is the area that the Mormons began settling.
This is commerce.
And Joseph Smith bought a ton of land all around here, this whole area.
He bought 20,000 acres right here in this little chunk along here,
West Point and Donaldson here.
This whole area, Joseph Smith, purchased a ton of it.
Once again, he didn't pay for anything.
He just signed his name to all of it in these land speculators.
Some of them were charging like three, four, five hundred percent higher
than the land value because the Mormons didn't have any other options.
Those were the more honest ones.
Those were the more honest ones they were dealing with.
Fair point, fair point.
And we have a few of these people.
Isaac Allen is one of them.
Somebody named White.
I can't remember his first name.
There's Horace Hotchkiss.
So there are these land speculators that were selling all this land.
And this is a kind of a mistake because Joe was dealing with these guys
for the rest of his life.
And they were complaining to him that they were paying the taxes on the land
that he was settling on because they had the deed and he wasn't paying it.
He was defaulting on all the loans.
They were charging him interest when he understood that the agreement was
for no interest because of the Mormon situation.
But he didn't have the documents to prove it because he didn't file anything.
He just signed anything that came across his desk.
It created a massive web of chaos.
And that has its own implications and effects and impacts
that we'll be discussing here in a little while as well.
Anyway, so 1839 rolls along,
Joe decides he's got to figure out how to pay for all of this land that he's signing.
It wasn't he wasn't completely reckless at this point.
Like he knew that the money was going to come due.
You broke out.
You broke out, brother.
Say that again.
Who me or Bryce?
You.
You.
Oh, I said he'll pay it someday.
But that's future Joe's problem.
Yeah, that's right.
So he went to the government with with open hands asking for money.
So while his people were starving and sick,
he realized that there were basically a couple of paths to success here.
One would be to get a boon of new members and get all their tithing money.
That was always always on the table.
That was always an option.
That was always something that he was interested in doing.
But the Mormons have made a name for themselves in America.
They had to tap into a new market.
A second option would be to give government bailout.
Missouri had billed the Mormons for the Missouri Mormon War.
Right.
Like they were they were massively in debt in the state of Missouri
because of what Joseph Smith had done there.
Joseph Smith and Sidney Rick and I should say.
But the Mormons didn't want to pay that money because they felt that they were
slighted that they were wronged by the state for the state kicking them out.
And nobody really looks good in this situation.
Everybody's kind of wrong about everything.
So Joe was decides to first send out all of his apostles on a mission to Europe.
And this the the a couple of apostles had gone to Europe a couple years prior
with no success.
Almost no success.
They they introduced themselves to a few people over there.
A couple of people converted.
But there was there was no massive missionary effort.
That was in 1837.
Now in 1839 Joe decides to in earnest try to convert Europeans.
So he tells president now president Brigham Young.
He is president of the Quorum of Apostles because the guy who was Thomas B. Marsh
betrayed Joseph Smith.
He went and fired the affidavits told all about the battle at Kirkwood River.
And it was because of him partially that Joe was in prison.
Right.
So he you know he given Joe the Judas his kiss.
So Brigham Young had now ascended to president of the Quorum of Apostles.
And they were still down another apostle that they ended up he ended up calling his cousin
Willard Richards to fill that position.
I see that David you know that name Willard Richards.
Yeah.
And I just I keep biting my tongue because like oh yeah another thing.
Oh yeah another thing.
I feel like I'm well I'm kind of rambling as well and and trying to advance it.
But no please please chime in please please do.
Well for instance now that we're in Europe the second go around Europe at this time is going
through the industrial revolution.
And so there's all these people in the especially in the small towns
who have lost their traditional way of life and are just being displaced to the factory or nothing.
And the Mormons could not have come in a better time because they were like well we'd rather
be slaves in America than starve here.
And this is even before that this is like 10 years before the
Irish potato famine and yet in places like England and Scotland you know it's a mess right now.
And that's a yeah that's a good point the American dream.
Yeah exactly exactly and they really ran with it.
Let me ask you guys this because this is I mean he goes to Europe to convert
Europeans.
Well yeah he has his disciples or people who are followers to go do this.
I don't know how much details in that in that session of this history but how successful
were they. I mean you obviously said David that they were interested in something different
than just the factory.
And yeah not necessarily they're convinced by the the theological arguments
but the economic arguments made great sense for them.
So yeah one kind of drives the other.
Well and this is also where Brigham Young becomes incredibly useful right because he
was somebody who could you know find all of the red lines and a ledger and turn them black right.
Like this guy was a bean counter and he was extremely critical and hyper focused on management
and logistics and making sure all of the the gears are greased.
And when he gets to Europe he basically charters a ship and establishes a program
where every person who wants to immigrate to America has to just pay his immigration fund
four pounds four British pounds at the time which that was a lot of money but that was you
know that was a week or two weeks of wages right like that was reasonable.
And that would get them from from Liverpool to New Orleans or from Liverpool to New York.
That would get them from Europe to America and then they could you know take a steamer from
New Orleans up the Mississippi right to Nauvoo or they could you know hop on a
through the Great Lakes and come down.
Back up a sentence they could steamer up the Mississippi.
Yeah they could take a steamer up the Mississippi straight to Nauvoo or they could hop on a steamer
in Buffalo or go through the Erie Canal or whatever or go by foot or
it was a program set up to get a lot of people a long distance in a short amount of time and it was
incredibly successful. This also endeared the European Mormons to Brigham Young.
It made them he was the public face of the church. It wasn't Joseph Smith.
These people didn't know who Joseph Smith was right. Joseph Smith remained in America.
These people converted because of the sermons of Brigham Young and Heber Kimball
and they these guys became the authority of the church in Europe and they were sending thousands
of people by the time 1844 rolls around which is the death of Joseph Smith I believe somewhere in
the ballpark of six to eight thousand people had migrated from Europe to Nauvoo in the surrounding
areas. I mean just a huge windfall of people coming in but David as you said these people
are coming over for the American dream they're not wealthy. No right you're adding destitute people
to a population of already destitute people you're just compounding problems here.
And as you point out earlier they're living on a swamp and when you live in a swamp in the 19th
century you have malaria and therefore a doctor like John Bennett was very needed at that time
to help with the malaria victims. It's one of the things he really contributed.
And I the evil deep brain just can't help but point out that while all these missionaries are in
Europe meanwhile back at home Joseph Smith is caring for the widows of the church who are
house husbands our way and he gained any number of celestial wives during this time
while they're while he was sending their husbands off on missions across the ocean.
Hold on hold on this is what I've been waiting nine episodes for this good stuff.
Look okay hold on this is great this is great. I have to ask real quick before we get to the fun
stuff because you know I can't wait to hear this. I love this is just so funny it's so it's like
it's like Muhammad you know like when you hear about Muhammad and he sees his uh his cousin or
nephew's wife and he's like I just had a revelation. He started me if you know what I'm saying it's
like God just told me um and it's like sure buddy um your your erection told you but anyway um
wait till we get into doctrines and covenants when they're like messages from God that read
just like King James version fanfic are naming people by name you know it's just so hilarious
this is the way they're they're written out. I gotta ask a detail though about the sermons
that are being given in Europe and I know that there's probably an episode you could do on this
and like talking about how the sermons went down. When I went to church everybody who's like a
regular Christian knows how sermons go you know it's about Jesus Christ it's all about
Jesus Christ. How does one who's a prophet who's a who's a president of the prophet um out here
in Europe saying sermons how would a sermon like that go in what way does Joseph Smith get
incorporated or is it just like a Jesus sermon except once in a while they hint at oh there is
another prophet uh and it's named Joseph Smith I mean is it mainly a Christ-centric Jesus Christ
centric type uh sermon and they just incorporated Joseph Smith in some way or is it very Joseph
Smith centric? It's an awesome question Derek because one thing the what we think of is Mormonism
hadn't quite gelled yet this is the time when this is all coming together so I'm really curious to
see what Bryce has to say about how they're answering that question what were they preaching
these early years before it became widely known about this that or the other doctrine?
It was quite varied dependent on the audience uh they were allowed to preach were
start back it was quite varied sorry it was quite varied dependent on the audience of course
most of the places they were allowed to preach were other churches right like they they would
um forge relationships with leaders of other faith traditions and they would say you know can we
borrow your your church for you know Sunday afternoon and this is pretty common right there
were oftentimes community churches where um the community would come together build a church and
then different faiths you know episcopals and then the Presbyterians and then the Lutherans
would they would all use the church on like different hour blocks on Sundays or different
days of the week or whatever the case may be um so the Mormons were able to utilize those churches
as well as other churches that were built all around uh the places that they were proselytizing
and it was mostly in Brynn um but a little bit in scotland the little in Ireland as well
so that they were able to utilize those other churches and most of the time
um expounding on the bible now sorry they were utilizing other churches and you broke out
yeah sorry okay uh so they were utilizing these other churches and oftentimes their sermons were
just expounding on the bible now this is a lesser known document or a set of documents for uh in
Mormon history but these are called the lectures on faith um and the lectures on faith are basically
a breakdown of seven different lectures on uh Mormon theology and they were included with
Joseph Smith's revelations which became the book that we know in Mormon canon as the doctrine and
covenants right so the doctrine is the lectures on faith the covenants are Joseph Smith's
revelations as mouthpiece of God the doctrine and covenants well in 1921 they removed the
lectures on faith so doctrine and covenants is just covenants now uh but it's still called doctrine
and covenants but those lectures on faith they provided a basically um uh a lecture along with
a q and a portion about what the lecture concerns and it's a it's pretty basic Christianity
Trinitarian Christianity um these were conceived in 1831 1832 long before Joseph came up with the
multiple versions of heaven and the Zion is in Missouri even even the story of him getting his
message and the golden plates and all you know that wasn't there in fact it makes me wonder
how many of these English the converts really felt baited and switched when they came to America
and say wait what you believe what what do we believe now and yeah that did happen that did
happen but there were also some of them who got there and they were you know they showed fealty
to the prophet you know William Clayton is an example of this who showed fealty to the prophet
um uh and their loyalty was rewarded and you know in William Clayton's journal
yeah William Clayton's journal which the church have leaked uh passages William Clayton's journal
William Clayton's journal that the church has suppressed
from it he talks about having a menace toa with his mother-in-law and uh wife and sister right
uh like it's yo are you listening this this this story is the next game of thrones yeah
so it's yeah it's game of stones man i i want i want it so bad um but the thing is is like
when the they got to Nauvoo a lot of these immigrants realized that they they were sold
a false bill of sale but they didn't have much other options right this is the land of opportunity
but Nauvoo was still pretty far away from a lot of other cities um and they like these are Europeans
who are largely more progressive than the western americans at this time uh they could move elsewhere
in Illinois uh but there wasn't a city that they were familiar with that was industrial like they
had become familiar with from what they moved away from to get to america right uh they could try
and expand into the west but that'd be native territory they'll kill you um they could try and
go to the south uh in missouri or something but that's also slave territory and uh europeans
from the 1830 or 1840s uh and slaveholding missourians they don't have a whole lot in common
you know yeah it's true and in a lot of ways they are at the edge of the world this is like you
know we forget yeah i'm living in california where i am used to be the border between spain and russia
you know i just not barely 150 years ago yeah barely over that um yeah this country after this
country is wilderness everything wilderness yeah and this is like america existed in kind of like
pockets right there was like there was a whole east coast of the original colonies uh that were
slowly creeping west to the mississippi and the mississippi in the 1840s was the break-off
everything west was from that was the west uh there was there were there were territories in all of
this um but then there was also texas and the oregon territory in the west coast and california
was also being settled i didn't achieve state in until 40 49 is it 1849 i think right after they
discovered gold yeah oh really yeah oh it's so convenient that they discovered gold in california
which made it such a huge economic boom for salt lake c which was a stopping point on the
journey to california so convenient so convenient that they discovered gold and Mormon territory
so anyway uh that so this this is all building you know multiple threads together right so joseph
is getting in these new converts uh they're they're coming in to navu joseph also goes to
washington dc to ask for a government bailout i see you calling for a timeout i just want every
time i hear the word navu it's i got i have to say where that name came from it's because
joseph smith declared this place will be a beautiful plantation and we will call it navu which in
hebrou means plantation except it doesn't there is no hebrou word navu there's a slightly underused
poetic word that's navah or navet but it's but he thought it was navu and it's just it just never
fails to delight me that that whole thing is named after a misunderstanding from joseph smith
like so much of Mormonism self was a native american white lame knight uh and adam on
diamon was the place that adam and eve settled after they were kicked out of jackson county,
missouri which was as we all know is the garden of eden yes and and the site of the second coming
of jesus it's like boom right in the corner of a walnut street and third or whatever it is in there
that's where jesus is touching down uh thank god for modern day prophets yeah and in the meantime
the church would love to own that property but one of the split off versions of Mormonism
owns that property but anyway we're getting way ahead of ourselves now yeah yeah the uh the
hedgerkites right the they go by the name the church of christ because according to the early
church and the book of Mormon the church of christ is supposed to be called the church of christ
and they say that joseph apostatized uh by changing the name anyway whatever it doesn't
matter yeah it's like well it's just irony upon irony they dog pile up so fast it's hard it's amazing
it's truly amazing that's a great question to ask though brice is is their prophet apostatized
what do they preach now what how does their myth work at this point anyway i don't want to get caught
up in that i'm just saying that's like something to put on the shelf and think about like how can
you have a mormon type of telling about god's perfect plans yeah so you were talking this
conversation tell me about mormon history exactly i know we're definitely doing that so you were back
i want to get back to the hot stuff so these guys are overseas trying to get guys to come back
and he says i'll take care of your wives there's a lot of sickness going on the doctors probably
fondling with these women who need help if you know what i mean i don't know i'm just throwing
up and speaking of doctors and women who need help one other thing that he provides medical
service is abortions we're getting way of our hills yeah we're ahead of ourselves yeah uh so to go
back and answer a question from much earlier what the mormons preached there in in britain
is largely the bible some of it was on joseph smith's history because like you said david like
the mormonism we know today it was only beginning to morph and change into what it is today at this
time like they were still conceiving of the mythical journey of joseph smith at this time
so so there's that they're all they're preaching on the book of mormon and showing passages in the
bible to talk about the stick of juda and the stick of joseph and the stick of joseph is the
book of mormon uh they're conceiving all of these things the missionaries preach uh pre
so warning um they were conceiving of all they were yeah they were conceiving of all of these
all of these missionary tracks uh and programs and ideas and concepts um they were writing missionary
tracks like a voice of warning um they they they they were creating the missionary program
essentially by trial and error yeah it's almost like the the railroad train is going and they're
laying the tracks as the railroad is yeah it's very cartoonish yes exactly um yeah so it's it's
a complicated time for them because they're also they have no oversight by joseph smith
and he can't be bothered to pay them much mind um he because he's so busy with everything else
he's taking he's trying to coordinate the settlement of thousands of people to a whole new
area while draining a swamp and while settling a farmland farmlands outside of the city
and trying to get all sorts of public works projects off the ground right so joseph smith
it has you know 10 plates up in the air and he's trying to figure out how to keep them all spinning
and at this time he's like we need money i got a plan i need money um and and that's part of the
impetus behind him sending all the missionary or the apostles out to be missionaries and also
he collected a bunch of affidavits from Mormons who suffered the troubles in missouri including
himself and his older brother hyrum uh about what happened to them which he with a few other people
went and presented to congress um in hopes that they could achieve some form of a bailout some
economic relief for this um and they were left out of the chambers uh joseph smith went and
met with president martin van buren himself according to joseph smith martin van buren said
i can do nothing for you or else the whole state of missouri will be which you know it's politics
yeah exactly it could be yeah um but joseph smith being rejected that government bail out a lot of
people point to that time in his life like you know coming down the stairs where joseph says
i'm gonna run for president um and i think that they're right i think he met with the president
and realized that this guy is an oaf he called him a fop or a fool uh he said that he is uh holy
without uh parts because he's uh like very ugly and bulbous type of large man
like joseph when he came back from his meeting with president van buren like he he hated this guy
absolutely hated van buren and with reason like he wasn't a great president to begin with um but
also when you're going and asking people for 1.2 million dollars in 1840 money oh that's yeah that's
like they tell you um 1.2 million sorry um that so when you go and ask somebody for like 1.2 million
dollars in 1840 money which is like 40 million today and they tell you to take a hike uh you get
you feel a little burned by that right a little bit i gave you my heart he crushed it
yeah so you know he he's burned uh and that's when joe decides he's gonna run for president
when he can and he eventually does but we can't get ahead of ourselves now can we um
so in the midst of all of this right there there's there's just there's a lot of bad stuff going on
this is all 1839 um and eventually uh joseph begins taking more wives in all of this right um
i i don't know i'm trying to decide how to do polygamy how to deal with this issue because
it's it's a it's a big enough issue stand alone to discuss i think we should go with that route
because but then again so much of his later problems and it all falling apart
yeah i i don't know why i'm not getting you guys and you're hearing each other
my internet must not be stable like it should probably isn't because yeah i i'm losing you
too every now and again and yeah okay and i'm sorry man i don't know if it's the kids inside
because my kids go to school and stuff but um how to deal with polygamy go ahead and restate
whatever you said there uh david because i like every time you interject you've got to say something
because if not bryce and me are the only one saying shit sometimes i'm like we gotta hear
please yeah yeah yeah um yeah it's almost worth saving polygamy for its own show because there's
so much going on with just that and let's face it it's super juicy but at the same time so much of
what caused Mormonism and joseph smith's life to fall apart were directly tied to the problems
that were brought up by polygamy so it's a tough balancing act like every single episode of this
show is how much do we tell them what do we not tell maybe i can ask you a question here bryce to
try and make this simple and and then i'll ask to say this to our audience do you want a show
on polygamy okay just just how bad do you want one because if you want one bad enough these
gentlemen will definitely do them but i want to ask a simple question because we can't spend too
much time on that you're gonna constantly refer back to and another wife and another one
and there's gonna be this huge mystery of like what how why the the doctrine of polygamy
what is your as investigating i know the church might have an explanation okay and they might try
to go back to the divine what is the human what is the natural what is the non-divine explanation
you would come up with the guy was horny and he was attracted to girls on top of his being a
prophet and a man of god and really thinking himself to be this thing that deserves more
so he ends up you know taking these other women what's your explanation for and we'll move on
if you want to show on poly polygamy and i said polytheism because that's part of this stuff too
you know let us know and bryce and dav can consider it so thoughts david i gotta i gotta
use my thoughts together a little bit more to it but just saying that he was a horny dude who
really believed his own press relief i think is as good as answer as we're going to get
without completely going all psychological on it and again it wasn't just joseph smith doing this
dr benet was another case of somebody who was you know chasing all the skirts in navu
um and it's also complicated by the fact that it started as this very secret thing that nobody
knew about was became rumors became denied publicly in mormon uh speeches and in mormon articles
and then it turns out oh wait oh yes it's always been around and god told us to do it and he commands
it as an eternal uh commandment that we have to do it you know yeah cover up is worse than the time
and if we don't we can't go into heaven until mormon utah statehood comes up in which case there's
a whole nother flip all around and the eternal comes well it's a spiritually eternal thing so
you know the old the old song and dance of well that's what god says well he didn't mean it that
way you know so people who know mormon history get everything that you said there i feel like
there might be some of the nuances lost and all of that but yeah um utah was declared a polygamous
territory uh and the the federal government withheld granting utah at statehood until polygamy
was outlawed by the utah constitution itself um and that only came after the federal government
seized the property of the church and shut down the immigration fund and it was it was a nasty
and ugly time can i give 30 seconds 30 second idea on this um there was like we said the guys
attracted to girls he's kind of into women i mean most guys might fall into this kind of
trap of cheating the guy likes girls but on top of that it does have these strange what if what if
joseph smith's seeing himself like abraham like he has to repopulate this new cult this new we're
the real chosen race of people uh and therefore he has this kind of blend of his drive his sex drive
plus his uh his cult leadership mentality of i'm like the chosen one of god and and i should
maybe i feel this way because this is what needs to happen and this is me this is god steering me
in this direction i don't know but so i think so because this is really this is typical
full cult leader 101 you see this kind of hera mentality develop even today even in cults today
so yeah it doesn't it doesn't really shock me that's that's what he was doing it just it's
interesting to see how it plays out how they're how the first they're very coy about it and then
they're openly deny it and just the levels of the orwellian rewrites of their history about it you
know it's it's it's fascinating to me well and to there are so many different components of
me to break down yeah and without doing a proper treatment of it and like there's no such thing
as like a complete like a complete treatise on it doesn't exist right i mean there are entire
volumes of books dedicated to the topic and just the historicity of it not even on the theology of
it or you know the morality of it there are plenty of books on that as well um so there's no such
thing as like doing completely a polygamy from top to bottom and getting it you know just doing it
as a standalone episode or whatever uh because there are always different angles and components
to consider um what if we do one just talking about the different women and and and some of the stuff
like i said that said if we just do a gossip show about and then this happened and then this happened
and yeah and those are part yeah yeah those are absolutely fun i get that um there there are also
many ways to look at those right like those republic scandals but in private they were you know they
they were poly couples fighting and that's not like that's that's dirty laundry and that's that's
kind of ugly right um but also there's there's the Mormon apologetic angle that this has to come
from god uh and therefore uh joseph explicitly used the names of abraham isaac jacob and joseph
the the you know polygamous prophets in the bible to justify his actions
and i think kind of like you both were saying that this guy is the type of mentality and the
type of personality that if he has an idea and he has feelings about that idea that are good
then that idea came from god right and that means that anything that he thinks of that he wants to
do comes from god in his mind um and that he unfortunately needs to turn to some uh solely
mechanisms in order to achieve those goals in order to achieve what he believes is commanded
of by god um it's a complicated matter it is a complicated and it's also complicated by the
fact that the those who are making the argument that no this is biblically mandated they actually
had the bible versus to back it up the people who say no no one man one woman yeah there's
not a lot of that going on in the bible yeah sorry for that side trail we have to project
ourselves back on track and we have 10 minutes so where are we at brice what i will say uh about
polygamy here is david you said it perfectly like week
episode um i think that would be fun and probably helpful to try and examine different
angles of it but the consequences of it going on are deep and they they they span the the entirety
of novu history and the decisions that were made based on polygamy happening on allowing
polygamy to flourish on trying to keep the the things keep it as only rumors and trying not
to let anybody actually squeal about it creating more exclusive and tighter knit groups of people
who are allowed to participate in this or even be allowed to be taught the knowledge the information
that it exists right like these are all decisions that were made within the context of creating
harems for the leadership of the church um and and like we have to recognize that those have
some serious impacts for sure and we and that's worth pointing out too that it's not joe average
rank and file Mormon who are doing this no it's um from the top it's very 1984 there's the inner party
and the outer party yeah uh it's and it's literally the anointed circle right like the calling and the
called and elected uh the those who are endowed right like these these all of these concepts all
of these um these ideas they evolve and uh the people who are allowed to participate in it the
circle becomes tighter and tighter when you realize that somebody is betrayed somebody
squealed somebody told somebody who they weren't supposed to right um and this also spurned the
creation of the currently longest running female run organization in america the relief society
um and that's also ahead of us because that's in 1842 we're still not through 1839 to 40 right now
but the relief society was created with within the context of controlling and uh systematizing
polygamy um so all that said there i mean maybe we should do it as a standalone episode
these because
going to inform the rest it is a standalone episode it's bad sorry okay we may have to do
that standalone episode may actually we may have to do it in between some of these
navu episodes because the content of that is going to span the rest of navu history and it's
going to contextualize a lot of what happens in navu so maybe we'll discuss that off air um but
needless to say uh the beginnings were there and joseph smith had told his boys back in 1833 right
like seven years before all this is going on you go and take the natives in order to breed a more
righteous white and delights and race right like you go take those wives as your plural wives
because it's on us to multiply and replenish the earth with white and delights and Mormons
the foundations were there we know that there was the fanny algor scandal that we dealt with that
was swept under the rug uh but came back and god joked kicked out of his own church basically or
what one of the factors that got him kicked out of his own church um and now when he was in Missouri
he uh was sealed or he had a marriage to lucinda pendleton morgan harris uh who was
uh a celebrity of anti-masonic fame um so that we know that there are people who are participating
in this people who know that this is going on and here we see the very first inklings of joseph
smith taking multiple wives and actually conducting a marriage ceremony instead of just sleeping with a
girly you know whose house in which he lives right um and that sets out some of the the
blueprints and the foundations for polygamy as well to be codified into its own special type of
ceremony its own special thing its own special decrees uh and and rituals and things that have to
happen in order to allow polygamy to work in a family um so we see once again just like with
everything else in joseph smith's timeline we see the evolution of an idea he comes up with an idea
says this is great and then he adapts it he evolves it he builds on it or he cuts away the fat or
whatever to make it a viable idea and whatever the nugget of that viable idea is the church today
largely practices those in a most systematized and efficient format yeah and pretends it was like that
from the very beginning right yeah right the church was restored it wasn't involved yeah
spiritual wives from the beginning they were always just spiritual yeah okay well and and
let's talk about that too because in the the foundations of mormon theology and we'll have
to do a theology episode itself uh it requires polygamy you have to have polygamy for mormon
theology to work yeah i love the way they like come on strong no this is a commandment of god
an eternal commandment and required and then politics gets in the way they get pushed back
and it's like reinterpret reinterpret yeah well we'll put it on hold for a season it's all right
everything happens in god's time not ours exactly do you remember when herald camping was predicting
the end of the world in either 2011 2013 around that time and same thing he builds up this huge
million dollar radio empire and says the end of the world's coming this day and then nothing day
comes and gone is like whoa whoa yeah and see joe was smarter than than him yeah because joe
said if i live to be 85 i'll see the end of the world that was brilliant that was brilliant that
that was like 15 years beyond the average life expectancy for men at the time if he lives to be
85 oh and he ever he was not making and that's pure apostle paul playbook it's like oh no there's no
time it's happening jesus is coming any minute now any minute absolutely yeah um so uh let's let's
tie it together here with a couple uh you know threads uh to round out this episode right so we
have um the government denied the Mormons and bailout um we have the missionaries in europe
preaching converting and sending thousands of people over uh to navu um it starts slowly but
it ramps up very quickly uh and by you know 1844 it's like six to eight thousand people
and it expands navu crazily right um we have this town commerce which is a swamp land with a few
buildings on it that they're eventually going to call navu the beautiful uh because it's it's a
hebrew word that joe made up the word that joe made up he's like and we have a guy who just sent
a letter to joseph smith saying that i'm interested in your people uh i want to be converted and
that's john c benet and we'll pick up on the thread of john c benet a lot more because um when we
discuss the foundations of the city of commerce becoming navu and how all of this played into
you know the rest of navu it is so fascinating it is so fascinating because
joe like john benet was absolutely not the hero that joe deserved he was absolutely the hero
that joe needed at the time and this guy was so damn well connected it's insane how well
connected this guy was and what he was able to accomplish on behalf of joseph smith while he
was sharing the limelight with the prophet as basically a co-president of the church for a
very brief time a brief but glorious time that ended very badly oh god it's so good it's so good
wow okay gentlemen fork in it till next episode holy crap you guys tell us what you think about
this episode i'm really interested in seeing what you guys have to say about this for sure go down
in the description i need you guys to this episode was this was a bit of a slog but this
was drawn the blueprints we get into building tomorrow next time uh this i understand this
was a bit of a slow meandering episode i'm sorry uh but this was all foundational knowledge for
navu uh and navu is my favorite period of of Mormon history it's so bonkers i'm so excited for this
all part of our eternal plan for this series eternal series you mean yeah this could go on
forever but uh we'll have to end it at some point and if you guys are interested go down in the
description help out both of these guys they have patreons you guys can become patreon members
get exclusive access to some of their stuff i know david is uh gonna look at what he's gonna end up
doing for his patrons that are gonna join but help them grow it off the ground and you guys
go help brice out too you know we at myth vision have it as well go in the description
there's plenty of ways you can help all of us and if you're able to let's just say you had a lot of
connections like some of the guys that joseph smith had uh you might can help us out in some way
shape or form to make this thing grow um make sure you guys like this video and don't forget
if we are myth vision
you
