Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and today I have Dr. Seth L. Sanders joining us.
How are you, Dr. Sanders?
Not bad.
How about yourself, Derek?
Doing good.
I've got a little echo here.
Let me get that fixed.
All right.
We're going to send with Enoch, it seems, today, or really a dappa, and I'm curious
to learn from you.
These myths go way, way, way, way, way back.
If you don't mind, this is your first time on MythVision.
Who are you?
What is your background expertise for people who are viewing today and the book we're going
to be discussing?
I can't wait to get into.
Well, thanks for having me on.
I am a professor of the Bible and ancient Near East, ancient Semitic languages and cultures.
I was trained, let's say, undergrad at Harvard.
My grad work I did at Johns Hopkins and also at Hebrew University, and now I'm a, as well
as a postdoc at the U of Chicago Oriental Institute.
Now I'm a professor at U of California Davis, and next year I'll be moving to Halifax, Dalhousie
University, where I'll be joining their Classics Department.
So thankful you've given us time.
I've been admiring your work and saw your interview over there on my dear friends at
Digital Hammurabi, and I was like, I got to get them on at some point, and the stars
lined up now, it seems, and Enoch said, let me take you up here and show you what we have.
Before we dive in, I want to introduce people and show them.
We actually had, we had a documentary, MythVision did, the origin of Enoch will blow your mind,
has over a million views, ladies and gentlemen, the number one viewed video.
And I guess the question is, you kind of can inference where we got some of our insights
about this curious figure named Enoch, and that is from Dr. Sanders himself.
So it is thanks to you for my most viewed video on MythVision.
Well, I think Enoch deserves that position.
He did, after all, reveal the secrets of the cosmos, and especially astronomy, as well
as the laws of the universe, at least to the people in the, in Qumran and the Dead Sea Scrolls
sect, people who then studied early Jewish mystical literature, took him as a role model.
So, you know, I think he deserves our attention, no question.
I think so.
I definitely think so.
You have a website, obviously, ucdavis.edu.
You also have a book, a couple books here.
The one we're talking about is from Adapa to Enoch.
I understand it's pricey.
This is how they are.
Academic publications sometimes.
It's usually spun toward libraries.
So, yeah, this is, there's like, you know, they make 300 copies and sell them all for an arm
and a leg.
The book below that, the ancient Jewish sciences book I co-edited, that's open access.
You don't have to, you don't actually have to buy the hard cover.
If you Google that thing up, it is on the internet for free.
Perfect.
And then you have the invention of Hebrew, but you're working on a book right now that we're
going to, we're going to want to promote when that comes out or at least coming up.
So, we can get people to check that out.
Let's see.
You have an academia page, academia.edu.
You can go follow them at and then pentatute.digital.
What's this about?
So, this is a thing that, I mean, this is something that was the cause of, you know,
incredible amounts of disturbance in the 19th century.
People would get fired from their jobs for talking about the idea.
And it still, it still is a source of conflict, although the basic issue is no longer really
controversial among secular scholars.
And that is that the first five books of the Bible, the Pendular Torah,
show multiple voices and traditions that are kind of woven together.
And the big debate among scholars is not whether there are different traditions,
different versions of the story of creation, the patriarchs and matriarchs, etc.,
but rather how they were put together.
Why, for example, God creates the universe twice once as a guy named God or Elohim in
Hebrew and then immediately afterwards as a much, with a much different personality
as a divine being named Yahweh or the Lord and works differently, does everything differently.
And then those differences keep reappearing so that the, this kind of
irresistible and more remote divine being who
starts out being named Elohim is described in a way that
is much more concerned with the cosmic order and how we fit into it with the cycles of the
universe, the days, the nights, and how ritual connects you with the orders of the universe.
And scholars since the late 19th century have pretty well agreed that those elements that
tie together Genesis 1 all the way through the last parts of Numbers, so in other words,
in the first four books of the Bible are very, very consistent among themselves.
And scholars have agreed that there's kind of one underlying story,
but you haven't been able to read it, at least on the internet until now.
And so I just took the scholarly consensus along with my, some of my graduate students
who did a great deal of the important work and are credited on the site.
And we just turned it into one story people could read based on a scholarly consensus.
And with notes, I, my model here was the, the rap and pop lyrics website genius.com
where you can kind of just mouse over the lyrics, click, and get a comment.
Except it's not about what, you know, Old Dirty Bastard or, you know, Taylor Swift is,
was talking about, but what the Bible is talking about.
Wow. So this highlighted yellow is the priestly source?
The whole thing is the priestly source. The yellow is the comments in case there's something
confusing. And you can click it again to make it disappear. So, you know, you're not,
your page isn't covered in, in comments. Wow. Yeah. Awesome. Thank you so much. You have
another interview you did, of course, with my dear friends, Megan Lewis and Joshua Bowen,
if they want to check it out, it's in the description. And if you haven't seen the
documentary that we made, go check it out. I might even do another one because there's so much we
didn't even, we barely even got into the book of Enoch itself. So I just was showing how you,
like in your previous interview and some of your work in your book, how Adapa was a model from
which Enoch is, I guess you say, molded into, but this tradition is, it's not like someone way
later just picked up a book. It's like, there seemed to be a continued tradition that is being
passed, like the torch is being handed down. It has continuity in the culture of the Near East. So
why did you write this book? What is this book Adapa to Enoch about?
Yeah, so that as we were talking about this a little bit before the show started, we were just
kind of chatting. And I think I originally came to this stuff for the reason, I think a lot of
people do, and maybe for some of the same reasons people watch your documentary, which is that the
figure of Enoch is both tantalizing. In the Bible, he's described as in a unique way. He's the only
person who says that he didn't, instead of dying, it just says God took him and he was no more.
That is unique among all of the human figures. I mean, Elijah goes up in a chariot, but
nobody else just says he was no more for God took him. And before then, of course, it says that
Enoch lived 365 years, which is an interesting number, since the dates, I mean, from a scholarly
point of view, the enormously long lives of the early people in Genesis are either symbolic or
a kind of a shorthand for saying that they were special, that they were from a different and,
you know, in some ways, greater, bigger age. So Enoch, and it says Enoch either,
depending on who you translate the Hebrew, it's a habitual form of the word for walk or travel. So
he went around with or walked with Elohim, so either God or the gods, maybe the divine beings,
and then he was no more. So there seems to have been early traditions about what he learned
when he like walked with God or went about with the angels. And pretty early in Jewish tradition,
in these Aramaic texts that are from at least the third century BCE, probably a little earlier,
that we find it first in the Dead Sea Scrolls. And these are the two earliest books about Enoch,
the two earliest apocalypses we have, which scholars now call the Book of the Watchers,
and this is a whole other can of worms, the Watchers, the Fallen Angels,
and the Book of the Luminaries, or the astronomical book of Enoch. And these
go into much more detail about these events that are only hinted at in Genesis. So the question
has long been, oh, so did people in the third century BC, did they just read Genesis and say,
you know, there must be more to this. And I'm going to make up something. And I'm going to say,
I don't know, Enoch, you know, he got into a long legal case with the Fallen Angels and was yelling
at them. And then, you know, the angels were having all kinds of sex and teaching forbidden
knowledge. And I don't know, here's some other cool stuff, we'll just make this up and add it.
And people, I'm giving sort of a cartoon version of that. But the idea was that it was a form of
early Midrash, or biblical interpretation, where you retell or envision things in the story that
aren't quite there in the original. So according to that idea, this stuff was a creative work of
Judaism, and maybe 200, 300 BC, and may not go back much further. But if you look, starting just
kind of like in the most objective way, if you look at the math, if you look at the astronomy
in the astronomical book of Enoch, or the book of the luminaries, it's real Babylonian astronomy
and math. It uses base 60 calculations, which people do in Sumerian and Babylonian, but not
normally in Hebrew. It has things like when Enoch, the angel Uriel, which means the light of God,
is described as taking Enoch up, giving him a tour of the universe, and revealing to him
the exact, the numbers by which the universe works, the patterns underlying what we see in
the sky. So it's like, you know, as it were, the angel opens up the hood of the cosmos, and Enoch
seeing all the belts and pulleys and things. And even the idea of astronomy, like the idea that
you can calculate the number of hours of light and dark over the course of the seasons from
solstice to solstice by what's called a linear zigzag function, which is where it's
at the solstice, it's the day is twice as long as the night in the summer solstice,
and then in the winter solstice, the night is twice as long as the day. And that exact
calculation appears in Babylonian astronomy and math some centuries earlier. So the connections to
another ancient scholarly tradition, they're very concrete. These are not the kind of things people
will just make up based on their observations. And by the way, the hours, the number of hours of
day is not twice the number of hours of night at the summer solstice, either in Mesopotamia or in
the southern Levant. So, but that's actually a nice piece of data, because it shows that they
didn't get this from just looking around, they got it from a tradition. And there were a number of
other things that convinced me that Enoch, that the main elements, the main inherited or ancient
tradition elements of Enoch are inspired by or a transformation of the great heavenly revealer,
the guy who revealed astronomy, the guy who went to heaven, most famously in Mesopotamia,
which is the semi-human supersage called Adapa. You're bringing it right into that ancient,
what would you say, and we don't have to spend much time on this, but what would you say to
someone, trust me, I get it a lot, you get out almost everybody under the sun who comes in your
comment sections under these videos, especially when I do the documentaries, but what would you
say to someone who goes, well, hold on, Adapa borrowed from Enoch. The Bible was first. I'm
sure you've seen this before from people who are not in the academic world. What would you say to
that? Well, it's understandable if your main experience with the Bible is of something very
ancient and primal and is a source of knowledge and authority that it makes sense that you might
see it that way, but our job in the academy as scholars is to make our best guess based on
historical evidence and the gold standard for the dating of things is if you can dig it up out of
the ground and you don't have to guess, well, this looks like it's a thousand years old. No,
I think it looks like it's 400 years old and you can't really fully tell, but if you find these
texts in controlled archaeological excavations or you find them also in Keneaform often, it's much
easier to date the stuff because we have Keneaform texts from 2000 BC, we have 1000 BC, we have them
from 300 BC, and they look really different. And point being, we have Adapa stuff from 1800 BC,
dug up out of the ground, so in Iraq. And the earliest physical evidence we have of
biblical manuscripts, and this is not, they have to have been written earlier at some point earlier,
but the earliest physical evidence, and I think 4Q Samuel A, maybe 300, no, no, maybe 200 BC,
that doesn't mean that somebody all made it up in 250 BC, that's very implausible because
if they're forging that, then they're such godlike geniuses that my hat is off to them,
you win. Right, you're suggesting the longstanding tradition that they're kind of working with and
molding over time. Yeah, and the evidence is there's so much diversity of
theologies, of varieties of Hebrew, of ways of manners of speaking, so many different ideas
that as well as things that are pretty well tied to the history of Israel in 800 BC, 600 BC, etc.
That again, it's much more plausible that as you say, this stuff was developed over time,
some of it rewritten, some of it, you know, polished up and tweaked and different things.
You talk about this figure, we heard the name Adapa, and I'd love to get your take on the story.
And but before we talk about Adapa, can you tell us about this strange character named
Itana? I think this is an important person that before we get to Adapa.
Itana, yeah, the first king who went to heaven. Right, yeah. This is the document of history,
the first king ever, as far as we're aware of. So in the Sumerian King List, which was one of
their earliest kind of stories of ancient ancestors and rulers, and this is something that I think
are earliest copies, maybe only 1900 BC, but it's got to go back a few centuries.
The Sumerian King List, it represents an idea of history where there is one kingdom that rules
the world at a time, and for them, the world didn't extend much farther than Mesopotamia.
And so kingship is handed off like a baton in a relay race to different rulers. And
Adapa, excuse me, Itana is not really the first king ever, but he's the first,
the first one who's described, I think, in terms that fit our conceptions of kingship,
maybe. And then his only description is Itana who went to heaven. It's very tantalizing. And so
there is a Mesopotamian narrative of this guy who is, he's childless, and so he's in search of
some way of getting an heir. And so he teams up with an eagle and rescues this eagle who,
the eagle has been, had his wings cut and thrown in a pit, basically for being a jerk,
backstabbing his friend. So he redeems the eagle, you know, we're calling you back for
one final mission, Mr. Eagle. And then they ascend through the layers of heaven. And then,
and he sees Ishtar flanked by these terrifying lions, and he's like quaking in fear. And then,
as always happens, the text breaks off, and we don't know what happens next. But it's pretty
cool. He does, he does, he goes through the different levels of heaven. And so, but Itana is,
he's a king, not a sage. And he's very important. They talk about him a lot in the second millennium,
BC. He's not as important in the first millennium. So he's less likely to be a direct influence,
and maybe more just hovering around in the background. Right. And then Adapa, of course,
comes in, and he's more of a sage, not a king. Yeah, Adapa. So his story was really important.
At least the, the, the, the Sumerologist, Piotr Mikolovsky, a couple decades ago, wrote that no,
no mythological figure is alluded to as often as Adapa in Mesopotamian literature. In other words,
he was even more popular than Gilgamesh, according to Mikolovsky. And the reason is not hard to find,
because he's like the, the patron saint of scholarly knowledge of exorcism and astronomy.
And in, in the myth of Adapa, which we also have multiple versions of, and one sign of how
important it was, is they kept retelling it, and it changed a little each time, which is also cool.
But the basic idea, and this already goes back to this, to Sumerian, where he's called Adaba,
but it's the same guy. And his, he is a kind of a wizard, like a wonder worker who,
it says the, the power of his speech is like the power of his God's speech. And his God is a
Sumerian Enki, who's the, as well a trickster God, but also the God of magic and secret knowledge.
And Enki, who's known as Eya in Babylonian, so in Gilgamesh, when he shows up, he's called Eya.
But Enki is said to live in the Abyss. And he's also said to be the God of earthquakes,
because he, you know, when he, when he wants to make an earthquake, will kind of give things
a shove, and then the water under the earth will rise, you know, and it's like trying to sleep
on a water bed or something. And, and so what happens is Adaba is renowned for the power of
his speech, that he's a master of ritual. And so every ritual he does works. He's, you know, the
kind of the, the, I don't know how, I don't know how high they go in dungeons and dragons.
He's like the level 100 magic user guy. And he, he's described as going out fishing one day
to get catch fish for his god's temple or Enki's temple. And he gets into a fight with the South
Wind. And the South Wind tries to drown him. The South Wind's really important force in Mesopotamian
reality. It's, it's crucial for agriculture. If the wind isn't blowing, you don't get rain, you don't
get, you might starve. But Adaba is just pissed off that the wind capsized him. So he, he says
a spell may, may your wings break. And because his words kind of become reality, like, like those,
the magic words of his god, the wings of the wind are shattered. And this, the word of this gets up
to heaven. And the head god, Anu, who got, which also means heaven or sky, he says, you know, this
guy, Adaba has caused a lot of trouble. We need to bring him up here and talk to him. And so here,
and this is the, what makes the story so crazy, his patron god says, you know what, Adaba, you're
in trouble. My fellow gods are going to call you up to heaven. And you know what, they're going to
poison you. They're going to get you. So I'm just going to give you a little warning. You shouldn't
accept anything that they try to give you. And I think he's smirking when he says this. And Adaba
is like, oh, okay. And so he, he manages to take the road to, he takes the path to heaven,
and he gets up there. And then Anu and the other God says, well, are you pleased to meet you? Would
you like, would you like to be anointed? We'd like to anoint you with some oil and put this new
garment on you, this beautiful new robe. And we'd also like to offer you to drink at our table
and eat at our table. Now Anki has warned him that this is a drink, a drink of poison in the
food of death. So Adaba says, I'll take the robe and the anointment, but I'm not going to eat anything.
And then Anu laughs and he says, you silly human, if you had eaten, you'd have been immortal.
But I can see that, you know, I don't know why Anki gave magic powers to this idiot human, but
anyway, and then there's two versions. And in one of them, he seems to have joined the gods
in heaven. Maybe it's kind of a human mascot or something. And then the other, he comes back
down to earth. And then that these texts end with an incantation. And so the idea might be that
they're, that immediately they're channeling the story of Adaba into healing. So, so the story
isn't just a story. It's something that, that also, that if it's used properly, has the power to heal
you, to kind of transform you. So Adaba comes back with the knowledge of the gods. And then
the most important stuff I thought was not just the myth, but how he's used, what people actually do
with Adaba when they talk about him, because he's used in incantations to protect people.
He's, he's famous for protecting new mothers and their babies against the child-stealing
demoness, Lamashchu, who eventually becomes our Lilith. And so there's great pictures of these,
these, Adaba. I'll pull one up while you do that. Huh? I'll pull one up while you're, while you're.
Yeah, they're awesome. The, yeah, the Lamashchu amulets with the Apkalo are amazing. And they,
they show these, these figures who are like imitations of Adaba, standing around the pregnant
woman, burning incense and reciting prayers. And they are sending away the Lamashchu demoness.
Some of them say that, yeah, this one's awesome. What's especially cool here. So you see just how
gnarly she is. She's got lion head, female human figure with breasts. But here she's like, she's
like an evil version of a mother figure, because she's nursing a pig at one breast and a dog at
the other. Ah, let me zoom in so people can really see what we're looking at here. This is
great at drawing dogs, but you get the picture. Yeah, yeah. And I think the reason specifically
for a pig and a dog is those are often the most gnarly, filthy creatures in a village. They're
the two animals that people often keep around as garbage disposals, because they're two animals that
can and will eat anything that a human will eat, but also including if it's barfed up or pooped
out or something. So people think of them as disgusting. And the other cool thing here, if you
look, if you go a little higher up the top register, you see these guys who have the bodies of fish,
or sorry, the middle register. This is around the table there. You see these two guys who have the
bodies of fish with a little human face sticking out, human hands, and then a fishtail. And this
is the idea is that Adapa either started as or became a hybrid, part human, part fish figure.
And that he's then in mythology is supposed to be part of a group of these kinds of semi-human
sages with a special power to fight demons as well as transmit cosmic knowledge. And there's one last
cool thing. If you look at the top of this, and this is that the demon Pazuzu, famous from the
exorcist, lion-faced, multi-armed monster, is peeking over the plaque itself, which is just
awesome. He's like, hey, I'm Pazuzu. And this also serves a purpose. I mean, it's kind of funny.
It's like cute. But he is an anti-demon. It's very much the idea of the gargoyles on medieval
churches. Namely, he is a cosmic figure who's like so nasty and badass that even the demons are afraid
of him. I don't know. It's like having some kind of psychotic pit mix change here. Keep everyone
out. That's amazing. It's like fighting, you know, getting the worst of the demons to fight
demons, but they're on your team. Yes. That's he's an anti-demon. Yeah. Wow. You know, something
came to mind before I forget, just while we have this image up, and I want to keep diving deeper
into this asking you about Inky and what he really was up to in your opinion, because I've had Dr.
Joshua Bowen and Kip Davis, a Dead Sea Scroll scholar, Kip Davis, and a seriologist, Joshua
Bowen on and just remind me in case I forget that. But the two things I had were, I thought of Jonah.
I know that some even midrash, like Jewish rabbis and others try to dissect what is this man fish,
a guy who comes out of a fish. And we've heard people say Ohanis or different things like this.
Yes. Ohanis is directly connected to Adapa. That's kind of the Greek transliteration of
one of Adapa's nicknames, Ohan Adapa. And Ohan means something like Heavenly Day, maybe. It has to
do with his his role as somebody who's may still be in heaven as well as earth, who connects heaven
and earth. The Jonah thing, I mean, the thing I remember there is Jonah, Jonah is in the fish,
it sucks, and he hates it. And then he gets spit out and rescued. Whereas these guys are
beings who have, who are both fish and man. And then there's another type of super sage,
another type of Apollo that is one that is both bird and man.
Yeah. And these were very popular. You see them all around the Tree of Life in the Assyrian palace.
So these are, these are beings who are helping regulate the cosmic order. And I think the reason,
and I write this in the book, but it's, it's probably not unique to me. The reason is that
both birds and fish can kind of leave our world and they go into other realms, you know, the,
the birds with, to heaven, the fish under the world or in the oceans that, you know, can dive deep.
And so I think this is sort of an emblem. Yeah, this is beautiful bird up, Kalo.
No one knows what that pine cone is, by the way. But this guy's, this guy's much more like militaristic
and tough looking than. It's the pineal gland in the secret. I'm just kidding. Go ahead.
That pineal gland. But you'll notice he's got a few different swords in his little bandolier,
knives, I guess, in his bandolier. And he's very, very jacked. So this is, these are the ones they
had in, in the Assyrian palaces to show, to show the powerful cosmic forces that were protecting the
king. Wow. That's awesome. So, yeah, we wouldn't draw the conclusion that, you know, with the Jonah
thing in terms of that, the, the, so we, I mean, maybe there's a hint at some demythologized version
of something here. Yeah. Although, I mean, Jonah's, you know, the fact that he could be,
he could be swallowed by a fish, hang out in there for a few days, pray, and then
get barfed up intact. Like that's fairly mythological, if you mean like, you know,
narratives of cosmic beings, because, you know, a fish that, a fish that can just sort of make
you a little hotel room inside its stomach for three days is, I mean, that's pretty cosmic or
weird too. Yeah, I just, I just didn't know if that like was a mythical antecedent, you know,
that you thought might have influenced it. I mean, you know, I can't be sure, but I would say that the,
the clearest connection is definitely a guy who goes to heaven, meets with God or the gods,
gains special knowledge and come and comes back to earth and has that special knowledge
associated with astronomy, as well as with fighting, fighting demons or, you know, scaring away these
supernatural creatures who could harm mankind, because Enoch is associated with that,
and Adapa is associated with that. You're discussing of Inky and Adapa,
Dr. Joshua Bonham and me, we're talking with Dr. Kip, we call him Dr. Kil, aka. We're talking about
what happened in Genesis. So the other thing I had as we were coupling into Did God Lie was the
episode we called it, and we're talking about the Genesis narrative. But before we get there,
it sounds in the Adapa myth that you have not only Enoch in the biblical narrative,
but it sounds like Adam plays a significant role in this. It's like a merged of myth here where
well, you know, I'd say that there are,
so one thing that I wanted to be really careful to do in my book was to really take
advantage of the concrete evidence we have, because there's a lot of realms, you know,
when you have symbols, myths, and narratives about like, why do we die? Why is there a difference
between humans and gods? Why are there differences between humans, men, women, other types of humans
that, you know, is it a culture, is it fixed in our cosmic destiny? And some of those patterns
are so popular because human beings, you know, we have our bodies, there's a few building blocks for
our myths and stories and ways of envisioning the universe, you know, we have our left hand,
right hand, those tend to have symbolic meaning, you know, the left hand is sometimes considered
sneaky, the left hand path, you know, our eyes are like sources of perceiving at a distance. So,
you know, if you were to make an argument to me and I would say, oh, okay, Derek, I see.
I'm not literally seeing your, I mean, if he was a printed argument, yeah, but what I, you know,
we have these basic metaphors, building blocks, and putting things like birds and fish, sex and death,
you know, but the problem then is that sometimes people across the world will tell stories
because we have some of the same building blocks and those stories will look similar,
and sometimes you can't tell whether someone learned that story from someone else and there's a
chain of transmission or, you know, what used to be called the game of telephone, one person heard
it from another person heard it from another person, or whether these are shared, and that, you
know, you might find it anywhere in the world, and a great example, this is one of the craziest
things in the world, but so the story of Atana, the guy who goes to heaven on the back of an eagle,
it's very popular in Mesopotamian, like myth and narrative, it gets less popular by the
Neosyrian period, he's not mentioned as much. There's nothing really about him, the name Atana
gets forgotten, possible parallels with the story of Alexander flying to heaven on a miraculous
bird, and as well as Muhammad flying on a beast called the Burak, Thunderbird,
but then suddenly in like 19th and 20th century Finland, there's a story about a guy who accidentally
flies to heaven on the back of an eagle, and it's all over Finland, it's in all these finished
folktales, and it sounds a lot like the Adopimith, and you get this question of what the hell happened,
I mean was there like, did a story somehow get from Mesopotamia to like the ancestors of the
Finns and then get retold, but then nobody, you know, and it's true that people suddenly got really
into folklore in the 19th century, started writing down what these, you know, regular people have
been probably been saying for centuries, but the problem is that in a way it makes the point that
if there's no history connecting them, then they may as well be unrelated, right? You still need to
explain why people wanted to talk about them in Finland, like why did they tell the story?
Right, so and that's kind of what I tried to do, was I tried to focus less on
intertextuality or genetic connection and focus more on potential just cultural influence, or even
observations we all experience, like you said, we all live, we all die, we're all born,
we have our shortcomings, well why is, why do we not like snakes? You might find that throughout
various cultures, because all humans have a natural reaction, like kittens to a pickle,
you know, it's why are they afraid of pickles and that are green, they look like snakes, so they
jump when they see it, you know, maybe something there, but I do think, I mean, and it's a careful
approach that you took, I imagine you'd probably agree with me in this, is that we have good hunches
that they're aware of this material to some degree, I can't prove with that, I'm just saying
Tablet 11, Epic of Gokamesh with Noah, like the authors seem to be aware of the Mesopotamian stuff,
so I think of the Song of the Ho, I think of various other possible influences on Adam, I just
thought here you have Adapa, he both is Enoch in a way, and then he also is rejecting or mistakenly
screwing up immortality like Adam, so it could be vague, it could just be cultural diffusion in
some way and not be directly influenced in that aspect, I just was getting your opinion, I guess,
you know what I mean? Yeah, I mean, I'd say that the Adam Adapa stuff's kind of an open question,
I would agree with my friend and colleague, Dan McClellan, as well as earlier biblical scholars
like James Barr, that it looks a lot like humans were made mortal in the Garden of Eden, because
Dan, I know, has a recent, he's amazing at doing this stuff in one minute, so he's a TikTok, I think,
but in the Hebrew it says, basically God says, as soon as you eat from that tree,
or when you eat from that tree, you're gonna die, and then the snake says, you're not gonna die,
you're just gonna know more, and it pretty much seems like the snake is, he's not yet a cosmic
evil, he's just this kind of brat who's too smart for his own good and likes to stir things up,
because he's bored. And speaking of the natural world, of course, this is totally what crows and
ravens do, right, you know, they're incredibly smart birds, and so sometimes they will just screw
around with other animals, because they're like, yeah, we've gotten our food for the day, let's
cause some trouble. Yeah, so the argument that's quite plausible, I think, I mean, again, we can't
be 100% sure, but it seems quite plausible that the version of God in Eden, Yahweh, the Lord did
why to humans, maybe because they thought they were just too immature and disobedient to know the
truth. Right, our modern, the way I try to think of this, because people use this as a weapon,
right, to try and argue against apologetics, and I get it. But there's a point in which if you try
to understand the original culture, the way I try to wrap my head around this is like a parent
who is thinking, don't do this, you're not ready for this. So it's a white lie, but it's one of
these ancient artifacts that might actually have been a good thing to the original author, they
probably weren't thinking, hey, this is going to look bad for us later, kind of like Homer,
look at Homer, he's writing about Zeus coming down doing dirty things with mortals. Later,
the philosophers are going, no, that's a metaphor that, you know, so they're debacked
peddling. But you did say one of the things I was hoping we'd get into is that do we think
in the original Adapa sources, is it our hunch, the scholars hunched that, I'm sure there's
disagreements, but that Inky purposefully lied, and this is something that Dr. Joshua Bowen
thought might be the case. Open-minded, but he said, he thinks Inky may have done that because
the only way to get the knowledge of the gods and come back, as we kind of see with Oot and Epictum,
is halfway there. Hey, you gave me the clothing, you gave me the anointing oil, but I didn't eat,
which means the gods are not going to compartmentalize me away from mortals. So now I can come back
with the knowledge of the gods and teach the things of the heavenly beings to mankind.
Is it reading too much into that in your opinion, or do you think there might be something to that?
I think that is plausible but uncertain because Inky also, he's a trickster, but he also gets in
trouble himself. He can be in the earlier myths, there's all kinds of stuff about him, you know,
also getting into fights with other gods and kind of making a fool of himself. So
that does seem totally possible to me, but since it isn't clearly stated in the text.
And Inky also is the cause of a lot of trouble. So for example, the demons that Adapa is sometimes
summoned to protect us from that are called Utukulamnutu in Babylonian evil demons. And this
was a, there was a series of exorcistic incantations, which was one of their versions of medicine
because it describes how the illness develops as a kind of a demonic attack. And it describes the
demons sometimes as children of Inky. In other words, he seems to cause the problems sometimes,
but also provide a cure for them. And this is the very first line in my book actually is,
well, the first line is outlined from a poet, Joshua Mehegan, about whether these people were
really seeing God. And he presented a kind of a cynical view that he said, most of the people who
say they have poetic visions are either psychotic or else put, you know, faking it. And so if that's
true, then you have generations of like fakers imitating other fakers, which is, which is great.
You know, that was the more like, you know, what if this is kind of just a,
you know, has an element of BS. And then the other line I juxtaposed was a statement from an
ancient Babylonian scholar from, I think it's a letter to Esther Haddon. So like around a little
after 700 BC, Esther Haddon is worried about whether the rituals of the scholars will work,
whether the kind of knowledge that Adapa handed down is real and effective. And the scholar says,
don't worry, he who created the earthquake also created the incantation against the earthquake.
In other words, the source of the poison is also the source of the cure. And I think,
so you can see Enki as a figure who both, you know, gets people in trouble and saves them.
But that might fit with the interpretation you're giving.
Um, two things. You just, every time you talk, there's something amazing. And I had to jot it
down because I forgot. This is probably far from a consensus idea. But then again, you would probably
know if there were still these myths floating around even toward the first century. I thought of
Jesus in a boat with the fish that they're on the lake. I thought about this kind of thing. Now I
Although Jesus doesn't get knocked off the boat, does he?
True, true. I'm just throwing things out there because I saw an article once by a guy named Neil
Godfrey who was talking about, is there any continuation of this influence? I mean, we're
willing to say third century BC, second century BC, Dead Sea Scroll scholars and people in the
Dead Sea that are kind of still using some of this. I just wondered if there was possible influence
there, if you've ever heard anyone, a scholar that's tried to see connections to some of these
over. Well, I'll tell you the thing that people have described as being a meaningful parallel is,
is the exorcism and the stuff about the journey to heaven. You remember, you know, in one of his
letters, Paul says, I was a certain friend of mine, meaning me, was caught up to the third heaven,
whether in spirit or body, I can't say. And they're, you know, given shown things unutterable,
you know, things I can't. And then, you know, of course, later on, he says, okay, now I'll teach
you some of some of the mystery that I know. But the idea of traveling through layers of heaven
is something that we are, we see in Mesopotamia. The idea of going up to heaven to gain this
knowledge, coming down and sharing it on earth, that kind of qualifies you as a sage or someone
with knowledge that no one else could get access to. I doubt that Paul is getting this directly
from a Mesopotamian tradition. But this might get to my, the way that I think I solved the problem
that people had been fighting over for years. And I think without looking slowly and carefully
enough at some some of the evidence, mostly because it's boring evidence, it's not.
It's a lot of patience. But that is that people have long wondered about how
the concrete things that are where there's extensive sets of very detailed resemblances.
So, for example, the Babylonian astronomy that we find in Enoch, the series of laws,
sometimes in the same order, in Exodus and the Covenant Code, and some of the
very parallel laws, including very specific stuff about a goring ox, not just any fish.
It's not a dog that bites and it's not about a donkey that kicks. It's specifically about an
ox that kills people. That's in the claws of Hammurabi. How did these things connect?
Were the scribes of Jerusalem in the 7th century or later? Were they also sitting
reading cuneiform tablets? Were they hearing it from their friends? How do we know?
And people worry and wring their hands about this all the time. The curses at the end of
Deuteronomy, some of the very same curses in the same order as in the vassal treaties or
loyalty oaths of neo-Syrian kings. And the thing I noticed was that
from the very first inscription that we have in Aramaic, the earliest extended inscription,
is already a bilingual. It's a translation. They seem to be translating back and forth.
Babylonian on one side, Aramaic on the other. And this habit and skill of translating between
Babylonian and Aramaic continues. And we have dozens and dozens of examples of Babylonian legal
texts where there's an Aramaic note or description on the outside. Later on, we have the royal
inscription of Darius at Bayestan that's famously, of course, is how they decipher cuneiform,
way up on this high rock wall in Iran. It's in Babylonian, Elamite, and Persian.
But then Darius's inscription was translated into Aramaic. So there's a long and very well
documented history of translating between Babylonian, which was kind of the international language
of politics and scholarship in the late Bronze Age and the Iron Age, and into Aramaic,
which became the international language, the lingua franca, starting in the Neo-Babylonian period
and lasting through, in some parts of the world, the Hellenistic period. And the thing that this
I think solves that people have been worried about was, is this, yeah, Bayestan, this is amazing,
there's a Hurra Mazda on top, and you have these inscriptions, you can't quite get close enough.
And the thing is that since they're all in cuneiform, it's hard to tell which is which,
but this is in three different languages. It's in Elamite, which is its own kind of language,
but existed in Persia. It's not related to Babylonian or Persian, Persian, which is an
Indo-European language. And of course, this is old Persian, but they still, of course, speak this in
not only in Iran, but other parts of the world, and then Babylonian. So the habit of translating
was really prominent. And the other piece of this is that, because of course, the other thing is,
you know, a number of biblical writers hated the Assyrians and thought of them,
they thought of them as almost like the Nazis of the Near East. And then, you know, the book
of Lamentations, the end of the book of Kings, describes the horrific suffering and abuse,
the deportations, the mass murders, the king of Judah, having his children butchered and then
being blinded in front of the king of Babylon. So there was naturally a lot of, you know,
as well as these people being pagans worshipping the wrong gods. So there was a lot of very negative
and understandable, very negative feeling towards these empires, these imperialists and colonizers
of Israel and Judah. So why would you make one of their heroes into your hero?
Why would you say, you know, you know, they may have butchered my great grandparents, but
they're kind of cool. I like their culture, they're smart. You know, it seems a little weird.
But what if this stuff is not shared with them in necessarily, shared with them in Babylonian,
but in Aramaic? Aramaic is our language too. Aramaic, but because people stop writing things,
as far as we know, in Hebrew, at least not writing scholarly, learned texts, myths, knowledge,
history, they seem to stop writing in Hebrew around the time of the Babylonian conquest,
around 586. And they start doing most of their stuff in Aramaic to such a great extent that
even the script that when they do start writing a lot of Hebrew again,
when we have that in the Dead Sea Scrolls, that script is Aramaic based. So it looks as if what
happened was, sometime after 586, the scribes and other people who were being taught to write in a
Hebrew style to learn good Hebrew grammar, maybe to read some Hebrew classics, now they're being
taught instead to write Aramaic because, and there's a good reason, if you want to have a job as a
scribe, if you want to be able to submit an official request or write an official, be like a
notary, write a will or a deed or a binding economic document, a contract, Hebrew is no good.
If you write that contract in Hebrew, it's worthless. If you write it in Aramaic, it's a binding
contract. And we see that at Elephantine, as you mentioned earlier, if you want to
write a will, if you want to write a marriage or divorce document, if you want to show that you
own a house, you have a document in Aramaic. So all these folks are writing Aramaic.
To the point where Aramaic is probably just like, this is like writing, that's the language of
knowledge, it's all scholarship law. And so, if you run into stories of a sage in Aramaic,
that's just knowledge, that's science. It's almost like it's defanged the original culture
in which you have these demonizing concepts about, it neutralizes it in a way, where it's
absolutely, yeah, it's turned into a neutral international language that's not thought of as
biased. And of course, it becomes first one of the languages of the Judeans or Jews, and then
becomes the predominant language of religion and high culture in, you know, for the classic
like early rabbinic period. And of course, a great deal of the Midrash of Jewish law, of the Talmuds,
mostly in Aramaic. So it becomes like our language for early Jews.
Wow, there's so much I imagine that could be explored in that vein. And it just makes me think
of so many things like, so this is an avenue by which that question, well, how did they learn these
ancient Akkadian, ancient Babylonian, ancient Sumerian mythologies? And it wasn't just, oh,
well, they had to go and learn the original languages to figure it out. No, there's a translation
already here in this common English of the ancient world for everybody to kind of learn.
English is a good analogy. It's, you know, it's this generic language, if you want to do international
business, if you want to have a document, at least, you know, at least in these English-centered
realms. I mean, obviously, there's, you know, millions of people do find mainly using Chinese or,
you know, Arabic and other parts of the world. But there's a big swath of the world. And of
course, not just in the US or England, they use this English, yeah, to share, to communicate.
Wow. So many interesting things that come up. So now you have these traditions they can own for
themselves. And it doesn't need to be something that goes directly connects. But then we have these
tropes that scholars suggest are like demythologizing, but also anti. They'll say there's intertextuality
taking place in Genesis and certain places where it's actually kind of like condemning the older.
So would you say that in the Aramaic, as it's neutralized, they're really the ones
owning the narrative now and are trying to kind of say, hey, they got it wrong.
The best thing is get away from the city, get away from the tower, you know,
more nomadic kind of, here's our philosophy over against what the Babylonian philosophy would have
been. Well, you see that in certainly the really anti Babylonian stuff, you see like, for example,
in Deuteronomy, the idea of not being like the other nations and not you shouldn't look up at
the stars and take them as gods. And it's interesting, Deuteronomy doesn't say it doesn't
or it doesn't say it doesn't even say that they're not divine beings. You know, Job, Job, Job 38,
when God is haranguing Job for being a mere human, you know, he says, where were you
when I closed the doors on the sea and the morning stars saying
is the first half of the line and the very gods shouted, the very gods cried out.
And Job, as well as 2nd Isaiah, seems to describe the stars as divine beings there. So even,
even I think in Deuteronomy, there's a sense that those are some kind of real supernatural
something, and they do have something to do with the order of the universe. But you know what,
your job is to be loyal to the God of Israel. So don't screw around with that other stuff.
Maybe it works, you know, maybe it's impressive. Who cares? Stay in your lane.
Stay in your lane, you know. Yeah, it reminds me, and this is not a good comparison,
but it's something that comes to mind is the idea of Josiah going and literally sacrificing
the priest of the other altars and the other cultic Yahweh temples. And it works or the idea
where they would sacrifice a human and it and it like the magic of that human sacrifice in
the narrative actually works, even though it's not preferred or even gets condemned in other
places. Yeah, I mean, yeah. So Josiah burns the bones of the priests on the altars to
profane them. And it is, it is something like a human sacrifice. I mean, I think,
I don't think he actually kills. No, he wouldn't know there is a lot of violence in there. But
there's a tacit acknowledgement in the book of Kings that says that Mesha, the king of Moab,
is losing a battle against the forces of Israel. And then it says he goes and offers his firstborn
son. And then it says, and then, and then the Israelites lost. Anyway, next story just moves
on. Also, you know, and the more kind of grim stories and judges, Jephthah agrees to sacrifice
his daughter. And this is a very close parallel with the Greek myth of Iphigenia. Both of them say,
oh, God, or oh, Zeus, if I win this battle, I will sacrifice the first thing that greets me when I
come home. The first thing I see when I come home. And I mean, talk about a bad bargain to make,
right? Is it, you know, is it like, is it a squirrel or your child? Who knows? But in the
Iphigenia myth and in the Jephthah story and judges, they horribly are greeted by their daughter.
And then the terrible thing, and I mean, this is maybe the patriarchal thing, the difference between
when Abraham is called on to sacrifice, his child, God rescues him. Jephthah does win. Jephthah makes
the vow to God, wins the battle. And then Jephthah says, oh, oh, oh, oh boy, I have to sacrifice
my daughter. And then they give her a month to do some rituals and mourn. And then
so it's, I think there's an implicit misogyny there that, you know, if it's a boy, oh, oh,
we've got to have a miracle to save him. If it's a girl, oh, you know, tough.
That is, you know, a lot of ancient cultures do, did have that in it. So that's, there's so much I'd
love to talk to you about, and I don't want you to hate me. So what I'd like to do is, is get to Q&A,
if that's okay with you through our super chats. Yeah. Because there's, I'd love to get into even
asking you where I'm at right now on this thing I was talking about before we go live. But let's
take some questions. I don't want to be selfish and run everything. So Chris McCarthy, thank you so
much for the super chat. The earliest recorded solar eclipse was 1375 BCE in New Garrett. Does
the astronomical Enoch book discuss eclipses? Yeah, that's a great question. And the answer,
as I recall, is no. And I think that's for a good reason, which is that the Enoch is concerned
with the orderly cycles of the universe. So the things that you're going to see every week,
every month, every year. And as you know, to calculate an eclipse, it's something you can do.
And in fact, the Babylonians, arguably the first empirical scientists, because the reason they
were able to calculate things like the, when the Morningstar would be visible, or when an eclipse
would happen was because they had decades and centuries of observational records. And they
would actually create a mathematical formula that could predict these cycles. But the focus,
at least, of astronomical Enoch is on the most regular cycles, the things that happen every
month or every year. But yeah, it's a great question. Thank you, Chris. I hope you got your
answer you're looking for. Dr. Pluromonot, Persian influence on the apocalypses dated to the Hellenistic
period implies a priori, a non-direct link. But could redating the Book of Watchers in
implicating Ezio as a remade as Azidahaka prompt a rethinking? So this is a really important point
and gets to an area that tends to be neglected in modern discussions of apocalyptic literature.
But that is the fact, as you rightly point out, that this stuff is certainly being written in the,
I mean, that the roots of apocalyptic writing must happen in the, at least in the late Persian
Empire. The lingua franca is Aramaic. The Persians also have Babylonian scholars who are reading
and writing Babylonian. And there are, you know, some striking parallels, and there are Persian
apocalypses. I mean, the texts that are preserved much later, but the Book of Ardo Veraz, the
inscription of Cartier about journeying to heaven. These appear later, but there are shared patterns.
And there was a great scholar, Gail Widingren, who wrote a book called The Ascension of the Apostle
and the Heavenly Book, which talks about the parallels between Babylonian,
early Jewish, or Aramaic, and Persian culture. And I think that whole thing really can do to
be reopened. Because even though, as you also point out, the manuscript dating of this stuff is
Hellenistic, that the earliest copies we have are maybe late third century of astronomical Enoch,
but it is very implausible that that means that they were written in the third century. I think,
you know, we're probably talking fourth century, this stuff has to have been brewing
during the Persian period. So I think it's, and I actually, I have to admit, I'm not familiar with
Azit Ahaka. So this is something I would like to learn more about. But yeah, I know,
the larger point you make, I think, is really important.
Thanks, Doc. Always comes through with some really sharp questions. Another one by Doc Pluromenot.
Thank you so much for the support. How did the text of the cultural elite mentioning the Ammonites
contribute to defining Judean identity through the exploration of similarities and differences
with the people of the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian periods?
Yeah, so one crazy thing is that if you look at the, especially in the Neo-Assyrian period,
if you look at the inscriptions that we do have, Moabite, Edomite, Ammonite,
and I would say that we don't have too much Ammonite actual texts. We have some seals and names,
but one of the weird things is that the main god of the Edomite seems to have been Ale. I mean,
Kamosh was important, but Ale's more important. And there's a lot of personal names. Kamosh actually
was not that popular a name, but Ale really was a popular name. And it seems as if these guys in
their focus on just one god, Ale, were a lot like the Israelites because you see, if you look at
Israelite names, not only in the Bible, but even in direct inscriptional evidence of the
Neo-Assyrian period, the naming is pretty monotheistic. There are very few god names in personal names.
Almost all the personal names that mention a god are Yahweh, but never Yahweh. It's always Yahu
or Yah, so like Yahoshua, Joshua is Yeho, Hosea is Hoshi Yahu. But what that suggests is that
a good bit of their cultural distinctiveness or originality is a kind of denied resemblance.
In other words, that these folks are a lot more like their neighbors than they want to admit.
And you see that also in the Moabite inscriptions, the Moabite, main Moabite inscriptions,
where they talk about this idea of harem or ritual destruction or ritual mass murder for God.
And this is exactly what God commands the Israelites to do in Deuteronomy. I mean, it's a
horrifying concept of deliberately wiping out every member of a group. It's a parable to
modern genocide. But as far as we know, in the Bible, they were not militarily powerful enough to
really do it. Right. But the king of the king of Moab claims he did a kind of ritual genocide to
the Israelites. So again, there's this element of what you could call denied resemblance, where
these guys are closer to each other than they want to admit. It's almost like there's probably a
sociological study where I'm sure there's plenty that explain that the closer you are, the more
enemy you are of the kind of people. In different ways, right? I mean, sometimes people are like,
yeah, they're they're a little dumb, but we love them. They're our brothers, you know, I'm married
one. And then other times, there'll be this anxiety. Actually, Freud already had a concept
called the narcissism of small differences. Right. And you see this where like, you know, you have
different flavors of Calvinists who won't talk to each other. Right. I know all too well. Yeah.
Yeah. So it's a human thing, you know. But and actually, the anthropologist you want is Simon
Harrison, who does have an article on identity as denied resemblance. So I just I want to brag on
the chat. We've got some really great people, the audience, but we also have a few scholars in here
who who. Oh, thanks to everybody for showing up and asking such well informed, interesting
questions. These are these are cool. Look, we love it. I love learning from you. I mean, I've been
watching the interview over and over the one with the digital homerabi. And then I with your book,
I've been surfing through your material, I look forward to your new one that's coming. Dan McClellan
is in the chat. Dr. Matthew Munger is in the chat. Dr. Kip Davis is in the chat checking you out.
And they're writing down all your errors so that they can correct them. If I didn't give you at
least one, and I've actually hidden one, it's an Easter egg. I've said, there's one thing that's
totally, totally off base. And if you catch it, you get a special prize. That's so special prize
is coming. I mentioned to you before, and the one question to end on I was going to bring up was
Dr. Loudon here. And I told you, I thought I saw some parallels going in Genesis that connect to
what we're seeing in the Odyssey and things like that, the way that Dr. Loudon is bringing this up.
We've been talking about this kind of evolution of thought. Someone actually in the chat yesterday
was bringing up that what I've been doing with the Greek sources, trying to say, Hey, I think
there's some Greek stuff going on in Genesis, that it might be anti-Semitic. And I'm like,
that's not at all my intention. And I'm far from that. So I want to go on record.
Yeah, I am not only Jewish, but a member of Jewish studies program. My son figured out how to blow
a shofar at age five. And it's a nightmare. It's extremely I keep this away from your children.
Right. But anyway, I mean, that's that's all to say that seeing
and also also Genesis is not I mean, it was a Hebrew document of Judahites. I don't think
they would have called themselves Jewish, at least at an early point. Obviously, it's become
very, very central to Judaism, the Torah. But seeing parallels and connections,
seeing borrowings and cultural sharing is in no way a knock on Judaism. I mean, if you say, oh,
well, you know, the Jews, the Jews beat up the Babylonians and stole their culture. Okay,
and that would be maybe anti-Semitic. We do that stuff where we like steal this and steal that.
And I have a second channel, my editor sometimes will title stuff, because they actually edit
drama channels so that some of their influences of like poke and jab becomes a title or a
thumbnail. And I'm like, can you stop saying, you know, Jews stole that or that really does
sound ugly and I don't want to do that. And it's inaccurate. And they're like, oh, I'll fix it.
But because we we have very good, there's no like copyright law on this. And it's just ideas that
are well, you know, the whole, I mean, the idea of Enoch, the idea that Enoch's revealed heavenly
astronomy is absolutely of Babylonian background. So he's revealing the most up to date science
known to humans. Okay, it's not really anti Enoch statement. Exactly. So I just, I don't know if
you've looked at those checking out loud in some time, he's no longer with us, but I saw what looks
to be too good to be true over and over and over, somebody's communicating and maybe this late redactor
or someone in the Hellenistic period has brushed up Genesis to include this in some of these narratives.
This is what my my hunch is. I just want to go on record with you here to say,
I love looking for mythical antecedents and comparative stuff and seeing if it's there.
Some of it may be parallel Romania. Sometimes I throw my net out there far and wide or just
kind of try to see what might be there. Sometimes there's no way to prove one way or the other at
all. It's just fun to see that there's something in common. But that is an exploration I like doing
and seeing Oh, this looks like this comes from here and this looks like it comes from.
I would say that one of the things I tried to accomplish and from Adapteina was to separate
the really wide world of kind of cultural parallels. You know, a lot of cultures have stories
about like a hero going out to slay a monster. You know, a lot of, as I mentioned, for some
reason in Finland, these farmers would tell a story like Etana, that one myth of Etana.
That's a wide world where you can never be too sure. Does it just come from being human?
It's a shared parallel thing that does not show a direct influence or is it like a direct
influence or copy? You can't be sure. But in the case of what I tried to look at in the book was
what are the best documented and most plausible things that you can say in terms of, for example,
if in the Bible, Enoch is a tantalizing but not so prominent figure, how does he become this kind
of, you know, scholarly superhero, this enlightened sage that's quite important for Judaism,
some branches of Judaism at least in the Hellenistic period. Why does he continue to be
important in Judaism, especially in Jewish mysticism for centuries after this? And why is
he so tantalizing to us today? And you can show that among Babylonian scholars, many of whom we
know spoke Aramaic and wrote Aramaic, Adapa was their main hero. They modeled themselves on Adapa.
There's a certain point in the Uruk in the Hellenistic period when they, if you became a
senior sage or scholar, you got your own personal stamp seal with a picture of an Adapa-type sage
on it, a fishman. It's an Apkalu seal. And so we know that these people who were working in Aramaic,
probably speaking Aramaic for the most part, probably doing most of their daily writing in
Aramaic, the same kind of Aramaic that scholars of the Dead Sea Scrolls are trained in, so
Balingua Franca, these guys definitely are reading about Adapa all the time. They're comparing
themselves to Adapa. There's a temple, the Resh temple in Uruk, where they even say that
Adapa built it. Yeah, and this is, again, this is like, I don't know, 250 BC, they claim that,
and this, by the way, the guy who rededicates the temple has a name that he has three names,
he has a Babylonian Aramaic and Greek name. So this guy is an emblem of sharing,
of being multilingual in Babylonian and Aramaic. He sees what he's doing is connected to Adapa.
So there's some nice empirical evidence just about how intense the sharing was,
and where Adapa was a figure, Aramaic was the common language in the spanned Babylon and Judea.
So I want to play a hypothetical with you because you have information. Before we let you go, it's
just, you brought up something interesting. You see enough in Enoch, in Enoch's literature and in
the Bible, the small few little glimpses we get of the character, that you also knew the other myths,
Adapa, Itana, you name it. Imagine we didn't have this, imagine that Persian
period was a complete black box. You didn't know the Aramaic scribes were translating Babylonian,
or you had no way to know or prove those connections are there. Would you have still looked at Enoch
and said, man, there's too much to, it just seems like I found this, what looks like calendar math
or astrology. I don't know where I can't piece those things. I don't know exactly how or when,
in what period this happened, but there's too much in common, somehow it happened.
Would you have still drawn those conclusions, even if you didn't?
I mean, I could not have written the book. I would have written something else. But the person who
did write that book, specifically about the calendar and astronomy stuff, which is, you know, I mean,
regardless of when you date the texts, those parallels are so strong, is my colleague Jonathan
Bendove, who's at Tel Aviv now, and his first book was called Head of All Years. And it's precisely
about that. He did that with another colleague of mine, Wayne Horowitz, who's a Hebrew university
seriologist who is an expert in astronomy. Wayne was actually one of the original inspirations for
this book when I first thought of it. But Jonathan did his doctoral work with Wayne and others.
And yeah, and if you want to look at how those concrete connections work,
Jonathan Bendove's book is great. Just figure it out. Thank you for the few members who just joined.
Walter Tex, TX, thank you, and Myths Interpreter. We had a super chat here. David Aaron Hill said,
should we put Derek to the to the lash for thinking he's equal to God just as much?
That's a reference in the Talmud, as well as there's some earlier parallels. The idea that
when, I think it's Alicia Benabuia, there's four sages who are said to have had been so
fortunate or so pure that they were able to ascend to heaven and see God. And most of them came to
a bad end. Alicia became a heretic. The reason Alicia Benabuia became a heretic, it said is he
saw the former Enoch, who has now been elevated to being a divine being, metatron and thrown in heaven.
And he said, ah, so there are two gods in heaven. Theologically, this is sticky, not a good Jewish
theology. I mean, you know, at the end of Revelation, Jesus said I achieved, or no, the beginning of
Revelation, he says I achieved the throne with my father. So that might work for some
some kinds of Christian theology. You know, if you're thinking, well, he's kind of one with
the father, kind of not. But Judaism, no good. And so he is. So what they do is they degrade
metatron by saying, no, he is inferior to God. And they make him bend down and they give him 40
lashes with a flaming whip of fire, pulsa denora and aromatic. I'm gonna. Yeah. So that's that's
a good one. I appreciate it. They're gonna have to whip me. David, thank you for being here. I
really appreciate everybody today showing love and support. Let me pop up the again, the links
just so everybody knows they are in the description. Dr. Sanders, is there anything you'd like to
touch on as I'm kind of shamelessly lashing you or not lashing you? I guess you'd say praising you.
I'm honoring you with heavenly gifts right now. I'm sharing your material. Yeah, I would say
the invention of Hebrew is probably I think that's the one that's written the most in plain English
and most you can actually like buy without mortgaging your house. If you if you really the
thing with the top of the Enoch is it does contain all the sources. So it tells you where to find
everything about Adapa. It tells you it presents examples of all the translations from Babylonian
to Aramaic and other Semitic languages that we can document. It's the only book I know that
actually runs through that data. But that's too much for anyone who isn't, you know,
really wealthy to buy. And the ancient Jewish sciences again is free. Google that you can
it's it's online. So don't unless you really like having hard buy books around don't get that.
Yeah, and then the thing I'm working on right now I was scared to get into this.
So the first thing I did the invention of Hebrew is mostly about inscriptions.
Adapa to Enoch is mostly about Babylonian texts as well as a few biblical and other,
you know, Aramaic Jewish texts that we have a pretty good idea of their dating and context.
The thing I'm working on now is the Pentateuch. So the the most one of the most sticky
topics. And I already as, you know, with with my grad students, we already put one version of the
most the most widely agreed on the whole tradition, let's call it in the Pentateuch.
And then eventually we're going to put more of that on that website. I have more coming out on
that. That's probably the next book. So the next book is is like getting lost in the weeds here of
sources here. And so here's what I'm going to try to do. Here's the killer innovation that I'm I'm
hoping to have, which is I don't actually think the Pentateuch is a problem that much of a problem,
because every scholar agrees that the priestly elements are much more coherent than the other
elements. I mean, every sort of, you know, secular or critical academic scholar.
Everyone in all of the main schools agrees that these elements were somehow interwoven or layered.
And this is the key thing. The Pentateuch is the only text I'm aware of where
most of the main plot points happen twice or three times. And I have an article called the
something are there really any empirical models for Pentateuchal criticism,
where the main point I make is that if you can compare even the most obvious
non biblical parallel to a Pentateuchal narrative, which I think a lot of people would agree,
is the flood that we know from Gilgamesh 11, also from the Babylonian Atraxas myth.
Everything in the Babylonian flood happens once. Everything in the biblical flood,
with one exception, and you get a prize if you know what the one thing in Genesis six through nine
that happens once, all of the main points, the divine being decides to destroy the world,
the divine being announces it to his chosen hero Noah, the divine being gives instructions
for what to do to how to rescue animal life and humanity. The flood comes, the flood recedes,
they send out a bird to find out the flood's gone. There's a ritual done involving animal sacrifice
or about animal sacrifice and a promise to never again destroy the world, at least maybe,
not the water, but the fire this next time, but there's a promise to never destroy the world again.
Every one of those appears twice in Genesis six through nine once in Gilgamesh, and the crazy
thing is after years of discussing this, I've never had anyone show me a narrative or a myth
where all the main plot points appear two or three times. This seems to be a method of creating
literature that was developed in ancient Judea, maybe in the neo-Babylonian or Persian periods,
was popular for a while. You can show the same thing in Enoch, the book of the Watchers,
all the main plot points appear twice as well, so they were doing it, Jewish scholars were doing
it with Aramaic, and then they stopped doing it, and then they started becoming, they were like,
why the hell does everything appear twice? A few centuries later, they're already like,
you know, this is scripture, it's from God, it's perfect and holy and true,
but there's a lot of contradictions here. What's going on? And you have all these,
all this midrash, you have Philo, all these attempts to explain it away or fix it,
and I think that the idea that there was a set of literary values that had never really been
applied to narrative suddenly became a dominant way of creating literature, and then stopped,
then people moved on. I describe this as a common value all across the nearing of coherence, that
is just stories of a beginning, middle, and end, all the main things happen once, a new value of
comprehensiveness where you want to include the parallel versions and where things could happen
twice or three times, you weave them together chronologically, as by the person who's best at
explaining that would be Joel Baden, my colleague at Yale, and then they moved on to a new value
of harmonization where they were like, okay, our sacred texts have things that happen
multiple times and contradict them, but it's perfect and divine, how do we understand it?
And I think if you, you can write a history of the literary values that generated the Torah
that way, and nobody's really tried to do that because I'm really building on stuff everyone
agrees on. Right. That's the idea is I want to take all the weeds and make them into something new.
This, I love learning this kind of stuff, there's so many avenues to explore. This idea that you're
bringing up, is there anywhere, I mean, I think I mentioned, I think you said this on digital
homoromity, but for our audience, is there anywhere in antiquity where this kind of literature with
the doublets, triplets, and kind of contradictory elements like it rain for this many days, it
rain for this many days, 40 and 150, is that anywhere in antiquity outside of the biblical texts?
Yes. And you're going to say that. This is, this is something that I learned from my
seriologist colleagues. There's a great, great book by John Wee, who taught at U of Chicago
for a while, WEEE, but he, that is in actually in the most important forms of Babylonian literature.
Here's a book on Babylonian medicine on the SAGIG series. I have a text, I have a note
that's coming out next month in a seriology journal about this, but you can show
that the most important Babylonian knowledge, not storytelling, but astronomy, medicine,
medical diagnostic texts like SAGIG, astronomical texts like Enuma and Enlil, they do the same
thing. They will say, if the moon is eclipsed, the king will die. Second interpretation,
the king will be sick, but live. And, and it keeps going on to be like, that's, that's astronomical
omens. Then there'll be medical things where it's like, you know, if a man's, if a man's right eye
hurts, he will be fine. Second interpretation, he will die in a week. And it's sometimes that
contradictory. And what I described this as was, I described it in terms of music,
that we, you know, you could say that a story or narrative is like a piece that has an introduction
and different, you know, components or themes, and maybe a conclusion. And then there's types
of Western music that involve harmony, you know, where they're, each note or each singer, you know,
is, is playing at a certain defined interval to create this richer sound. And there's a guy,
Yisrael Knoll, a Hebrew university scholar, even compared the Bible to a symphony. And
Knoll was brilliant. He's done, did amazing work on priestly ritual and other things. But
I think he has a bad, he has a bad ear for music, because harmony is when, as you may know,
you know, guitar, piano, harmonies or chords are when the intervals are precise and regimented.
You know, each, you know, and you, as you know, you know, as a lot of you people know probably,
you know, if you go one half step off in any of the notes that make up a harmony,
it suddenly sounds screeching and awful often. Sometimes it's cool, but the idea is harmony
is very precisely regulated. There's no harmony between a God who's this kind of
magisterial divine word, you know, his very word is automatically obeyed in Genesis one.
And then this guy who like knocks into things, stumbling around.
Where you at, Adam? Where you at?
Yeah. Yeah. Like, you know, and again, even if, even if he's faking that, if God's putting on a
show to trick people, it's still quite bizarre, because the God of Genesis one did not feel the
need to put on a show to trick people to pretend to have a body. Suddenly the God in the Eden story
does. So this is, there's not really in harmony, but there's another musical value, very popular in
the world called heterophony. And this is something you can hear it a lot of folk music,
or when, or when a congregation is chanting a prayer, but they're not exactly in sync.
And so everyone is following roughly the same melody, but they start at different times,
they stop at different times. One person is quavering, one person is singing flatly.
So it's roughly the same, but it's, and sometimes people deliberately do it. There are people who
are musical virtuosos of heterophony. I can give examples of the music, but I think that you could
describe heterophony as both a Mesopotamian scholarly value and an ancient Hebrew and
Aramaic literary value. So that, that's what I was going to ask is like, I guess we're finding this
in the Aramaic, which is being brought, that tradition is kind of going into the scribal
pockets where they're able to use it. And as all tradition goes, it always changes over time,
then the later traditions, looking back on, they've almost lost the meaning of why they even began
doing something to start with. And this is what you're suggesting. Yeah, that, that heterophony was
a, an active value that created the, the Hebrew literature that we have in, in the Pentateuch.
Now, as you know, there's a lot, much, much less of it in other parts of the Bible,
other literary values. You get dribs and drabs, you know, a couple of slangs of Goliath and Samuel,
and one interesting repetition in Jeremiah. But, but I wanted to find a musical name for it,
because I wanted to describe it as positive, you know, not just like, yeah, they just took
everything they had and kind of paste it together, which, you know, makes them sound just careless
and foolish. And, you know, whatever, however you may evaluate the editing of the Hebrew Bible,
it was not careless. I agree with you. It's, I still enjoy it, even if you go, hold on, he's
sold Joseph to these people. And then, so, you know, I want to throw one idea at you to get your
thoughts before we let you go. I keep doing this because you blow my mind with these conversations.
And that is, I have, I've interviewed a guy named Russell Gamerican. Have you heard of Russell?
Yeah, yeah, no really interesting scholar. Yeah. It's interesting. It's outside of consensus.
He postulated that Genesis one and two, another example in antiquity that you could look at,
is Plato's Timaeus. And he thinks that you have this like divine kind of perfect crafter. But then
the second chapter is one of these lesser beings. He would run like Deuteronomy 32 that would say
like Yahweh is the son of El, kind of thing. But yeah, but like, suppose you're looking at
Plato, he's got the crafter who's perfect, but he has descendants, then Genesis two, four has,
and these are the descendants of heaven and earth, Aranos and Gaia, if you took it to Greek.
And then he says, here's this lesser deity like Athena or Prometheus, who makes humans,
gets his hands dirty, doesn't know everything like the crafter.
Have you ever taken any time to examine that kind of angle and thought about that?
Well, you know, I'm not as familiar with that as I should be, but I would say that
while I don't, the evidence I'm aware of, I would not see a direct influence of Plato as
the most plausible or likely explanation. I would say on the one hand, the idea that there's
an inferior God who's the one who got his hands dirty making humans
is something we know pretty well from a Hellenistic and especially Roman period myth as
the Gnostic idea of the Demiurge, the guy who thinks he's God or is all powerful over this world.
Ward of this world as Paul and Black Sabbath also, I think it's master of reality.
But that's this idea of an inferior warped deity who's irrational. And I think that the problem
there is that the, well, actually, I mean, if you say, okay, there's two different visions of God,
Genesis one and Genesis two to three, I'm with you. But I think the problem is that
saying that he's inferior and warped is like you were saying, that's more of a
philosopher's conception or a theological idealization of a God who is supposed to be all good.
And most ancient people and my colleague, Joseph Ryan Kelly, has some nice work on this.
The idea that God was supposed to be a candy man, all sweetness and light all the time
is really a philosophical and theological idea that comes somewhat later and is different
from the ideas we mostly see in the Hebrew Bible, where God is to be feared and fearsome
and either very, very lofty and almost like a law under himself or a really disturbingly human
like being. And they're not, but they're not disappointed in that. They're not like, ah,
this guy's just a jackass. He's just irrationally mad because he didn't have a treat before he
talked to us. He's angry. Most of the ancients, I think, would not consider that to be a
denigration of God. Really, they would say, well, yeah, God's need respect and they can be angry.
And sometimes we don't know why they're angry. They can be irrational and fearsome and they
were used to that. So that's what I might see differently. I think he, by the way, just trying
to still man him is, I definitely know that he says much of the Bible is very old stuff.
And it's very archaic. He's saying Genesis. So I think a lot of these guys that come out of Copenhagen
and things like that will very careful about not just saying, oh, I think everything and you just
take your Bible, open it. There you are, Hellenism. They're not saying that. And I think they don't,
a lot of times, I don't think people are taking the time to carefully try to pay attention to
those details that they do say, because it's so contrary to the typical consensus idea of
how they're doing things. But I think he's just saying Genesis, but, you know...
Well, do you remember Frederick Crier from Copenhagen wrote an article saying,
saying, well, what if it was all written at one go?
I've not read this. I know that he definitely doesn't do that. So he's...
Yeah. It was an article on a festrift that I remember the phrase like at one go,
which I thought was very chipper, you know, kind of.
That's... Yeah.
Let's have a go at it, mate.
Yeah. When you have like 300 people with different ideas, like all coming in here doing this.
Dr. Mott, Dr. Matthew Munger just says,
is the style of the Talmud a reflection of the same idea that you were getting at?
Multiple interpretations of the same passage collected together.
Yeah. So here's the interesting thing to me is that
the Babylonian exegesis, you know, as in Keneiform Babylonian Mesopotamian,
is in some ways more similar to the commentary style that we then see
in the Babylonian Talmud as well as Jerusalem Talmud, Midrash, other Jewish literary forms,
because they mark the differences. In other words, they say, here's an omen.
Here's one meaning or conclusion and diagnosis.
Now, here's an alternative, right?
So, you know, in Hebrew Devarah here, right?
You know, someone else, then this other guy taught this different interpretation.
By contrast, what makes the biblical Hebrew style so weird
is that they don't mark the differences.
They just charge right into them as if they're all part of one story.
And I think that's what, that's the departure is that both Babylonian and, you know, I would say
much of rabbinic commentary style is heterophonic in an explicit marked way.
They label, you know, it's as if someone were to say, you know,
here's the priestly version of creation.
Now let's look at the non-priestly or, you know, Yahwistic,
but instead they just tell it as if it's one story.
So that's the thing.
But, you know, that question really helps sharpen the point
because there is still something really interesting, an interesting departure
in Pentateuchal narrative.
It's an interesting departure from the dominant values that earlier you see in Babylonian
and then later you see in rabbinic discourse.
Interesting. Oh, I can't keep you any longer or you'll ignore my phone calls.
Seriously, thank you. Any final words from you?
No, I'm just, you know, I enjoyed sharing this.
I mean, it's nice.
I was astonished to see that the Enoch thing was so popular,
but it certainly popular with me.
I mean, I love the figure of Enoch and I love the narratives and mythology
around him.
So I guess that's actually shared.
So it does my heart good to see that so many other people care about it too.
Yeah, everyone has like different reasons, I'm sure.
For me, as I told you, I was this fundamentalist and then chip on my shoulder.
I'm sure there's pieces of the chip still there, but I'm learning.
Oh, Martin Erman, one great, great scholar.
Also, you know, started with a, I think, as I recall,
pretty strict evangelical background.
And then, you know, a lot of his work still has that kind of debunking quality.
Yeah.
Right. And I have that as well.
I have to admit because there's, there is silly stuff out there and people are buying it.
And a lot of times if you ignore it, you think you ignore it, it goes away.
That's not always the case.
Sometimes you got a spearhead and look at what Dan McClellan's doing.
I mean, he's writing some of those videos.
He's responding to them like, did he have to even respond to it?
But it seems there's enough people out there that actually think some of this stuff,
that you need a guy like him.
Well, you know, I think that you and, you know, your audience are people who,
you know, will linger on the stuff, you know, root out.
Okay, well, what's the context?
What's the most plausible explanation for this?
What are some different arguments, you know, based on the same rules of evidence and argument
that you would use for any other historical or literary thing?
And of course, lots of other people either just don't bother.
They're just like, you know, like really Enoch Enoch was a transformer?
Dang, you know, or else, or else they, you know, they have a much more serious,
you know, they have commitments, these kinds of deep theological commitments,
you know, that where they don't, they don't want to engage in this type of detail,
historical, you know, reflection.
Someone last minute dropped the 20.
I'm gonna end the stream after this, please, everybody.
Excalibur sword that rose out of the bottom of the lake.
Author took it rich.
Hey, Arthur, yeah?
Is that like the Oram and Thumam?
Oh, that's super interesting.
Layers of Heaven.
You know, I think that what, the place you do see connections like this between
priestly artifacts that seem to be divinely designed at least, you know, because of course,
the plans for these things are given in the revelation to Moses and the Pentateuch.
And cosmic layers or cosmic order.
I would say that you see these in Kabbalah, you see these in the Jewish mystical interpretation,
where they're finding these kinds of parallels and harmonies.
And I think there might even be some Mesopotamian parallels with Oram and Thumam
in terms of these lapis lazuli, these tablets of destiny or, you know, tablets of revelation.
So I think there are parallels, but again, maybe not a direct line.
Right.
That's the way I'd see it.
But it's, I mean, actually, you know, there's some stuff on the heavenly tablets in
Gail Wittigren's book, The Ascension of the Apostle and the Heavenly Book.
So if you want to dig into that stuff a little more, it's an old book, but it's still pretty cool.
You have been fantastic.
I sincerely appreciate your time.
I can't wait to have you back to talk more about the, what is it, the origin of the alphabet,
as you talk about?
Yeah. Yeah. Who invented the alphabet?
Why they were probably non-literate or at least couldn't read Egyptian?
Or at least they, if they did, they show absolutely no sign of knowing how to read it.
Maybe they did and they just covered it up.
And this, I have to give credit, Orly Goldwasser is brilliant.
Hebrew University, Egyptologist developed the idea.
I've been able to find a little more evidence to take it further.
That's amazing.
I can't wait to talk to you more.
Thank you everybody for liking this video.
Go get a copy of one of his books.
Show him some love in the comment section.
He might just snoop down there and see what you say.
Not so sure you don't have to respond or anything, but.
Anyone knows what's what tour this napalm death to use?
You have my deep respect.
Right. Thank you.
Never forget.
And just one second.
Don't go anywhere yet.
We are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
