Let's go back to that garden where God said,
in the day you eat, you will die.
Did they die that day?
No, God is not a liar, they say.
So what God said,
he did not mean what we've interpreted it to mean.
Already out the bat, right out the gate in Genesis,
you already go, God said they would die
when they ate and they get kicked out, they didn't die.
So therefore, death does not mean
what your eschatological model, Matt,
you're suggesting the eschatology is trying to solve.
It is not that solution.
Most Christians that I'm aware of,
especially in America and the world,
believe that Jesus is coming back
at some point in the future.
He's gonna make all things right,
put an end to evil, suffering, death,
no more tears, no more darkness, et cetera.
There are certain groups of Christians
who have recognized some things Jesus has said in the past,
may have been talking about
the destruction of the Jerusalem temple.
Oftentimes these Christians are called partial preterists.
I have explained this on live streams before,
maybe in the future I'll do a video of its own
taking you through my journey of eschatology
and how I ended up to where I am today, a non-believer.
But as I'm diving into this,
I wanna point out there's a certain group
before I hit my end in Christianity
that took Jesus so far when he made statements
about some of you standing here will not taste death
until you see the Son of Man coming in his glory
with his father and his angels
to repay each man according to their deeds,
et cetera, et cetera, or the end is gonna happen soon.
We see over and over whether it be revelation
in Paul's letters, in the gospels, et cetera.
When they saw that, they took it serious.
But in doing so, some of the words and meanings of words
have to take on an allegorical metaphorical sense
in order to have Jesus' words be true
and that be reality to them.
So they are called full-preterist.
And just to give you a highlight of some of the works,
in case you're a full-preterist watching
who doesn't think I know what full-preterism is
or you never really knew or understood it,
there's several books I'd like to point out.
This one right here was Sam Frost
who wrote an exegetical essays on 1 Corinthians 15
from a full-preterist perspective.
The element shall melt with fervent heat,
Don K. Preston, who I would say is the leading proponent
in the world right now online for full-preterism.
I understand there are several voices, but debate-wise,
he's the one on the front lines.
Here is one by Timothy, it's Timothy Martin,
Tim Martin and J. L. Vaughn on Covenant Creation.
And in this one, full-preterism goes so far,
they run into an issue in 2 Peter 3
where it talks about the elements melting
with fervent heat and stuff.
But remember the first heavens and earth
were destroyed by a great watery deluge.
And so they recognize, well,
if we're gonna have Jesus' words be fulfilled,
then the last or the heavens and earth they're living in now,
if that's destroyed by fire,
and that can't be cosmologically heaven and earth,
it's gotta be this temple.
So they find a way to also go back and see
the flood account might be talking about the first temple
and that waters might have represented nations.
Notice how everything can mean other things
because you can find somewhere in scripture
where peoples are considered waters
or peoples are called animals.
Like look in Daniel, nations are called lions
or certain beasts of animals are considered to be nations.
We do it today, you'll find like a bear
on a Russian flag or something or somewhere, right?
Like an animal represents a nation.
This still goes on.
They go so far as to say Genesis creation
had nothing to technically do with cosmology.
In fact, they'll use some modern scholars to do that
and show it's not ex nihilo, which they're on the right track
but a broken clock is right twice a day.
I'll make it quick, Hebrews fulfilled,
last days identified, Don K. Preston,
this one is dispensationalism, Keith A. Matheson,
of course, he's arguing against dispensationalism
but from a Fulcredor's point of view.
Inflaming fire, these are little pamphlets,
blast from the past and time statements
are the biggest thing that these people do.
It's called realized eschatology is really what it is.
Have heaven and earth passed away?
Study of Matthew 5, 17 through 18.
Can God tell time?
Notice it's always time related.
How is this possible?
Behold, I'm coming quickly.
The resurrection of the dead.
It's a debate, this book right here,
Don K. Preston and James B. Jordan debate.
He came as a thief, he did come.
Jesus did return.
70 weeks are determined for the resurrection.
This is Daniel.
Man, they do some stuff.
Let me just tell you.
The great controversy, past, present, future,
how will it end?
I think this was written by an anonymous author
who did not want the name on it.
Christianity's great dilemma is Jesus coming again
or is he not?
Glen L. Hill, he's no longer with us.
Another Don K. Preston, like father, like son,
on the clouds of glory,
is Yahweh came on the clouds several times
in the Old Testament, reading the Psalms.
He came, yay, he gave his voice
and he had arrows of thunder and lightning in the bows
and nostrils breathing fire, riding on the cherub
he did on the clouds, he came.
And all of that symbolic metaphorical language,
that's how Jesus came,
meaning he didn't literally come.
There was no evidence of him coming,
but the evidence was the destruction
of God's own people in Jerusalem.
That was the resurrection, the final judgment,
the climatic, everything happened
when God slaughtered his chosen people in his temple.
Great ending there, my friends.
I actually hook, line and sync about it.
Sorry for the long introduction.
R.C. Sproul was a stepping stone in the process.
Last days, according to Jesus,
who is this Babylon, Don K. Preston?
Of course, he wants to argue this is Jerusalem,
which is nonsense, and then about preterism,
Roderick Edwards, now this is not a full preterist,
he argues against full preterism.
I just wanted to show that, if you don't mind that,
to give everybody a little teaser to say,
I was one, I know what it's like,
I even went up to Blue Point Bible Church,
gave my testimony as a preterist.
Oh, thank you, thank you.
And also gave like a lecture on why I believed,
you had Elijah, you had Moses on the Mount of Transfiguration,
which was the law and the prophets being summed up
in the Son of God, who is here on this mountain,
gloriously shining like light,
that this was the climatic time in history
where the end of all ages has come.
And it was like, amen, hallelujah, everybody was like,
yes, confirmation, Jesus came and he kept his damn word.
So we found ways, and we found little weird things,
like the Hymenaeus and Phyletus teaching,
that the resurrection had already happened in the past,
or what you've mentioned before about first Corinthians,
the Corinthians or the Thessalonians,
like there's weird realized eschatology stuff
that does show up, the Gospel of Thomas.
When will the repose of the dead be, Lord?
And he says, look around, you can't see it,
but it's already happened.
The resurrection has already happened.
That's why I don't understand
why they don't just call themselves Gnostics.
Anywho, let's have some fun, Steven.
I'm excited to have this conversation.
So I never went as full as you did into full preterism,
but I did go, I was on the road there,
and I went more the N.T. Wright style of partial preterism,
but you end up making a lot of the same hermeneutical moves,
just didn't go quite as far.
But for me, in retrospect, looking back on it,
the thing that is most fascinating to me
about full preterism is looking at it sociologically,
because of my interest in cognitive dissonance,
and looking at the literature on cognitive dissonance
in messianic and apocalyptic movements throughout history,
movements that believe and claim and prophesy
that the end is coming soon,
and then when that doesn't happen,
there's a few different routes you can go with it,
and there's usually different factions in these groups
that end up going in different directions.
Some of them, you know, redate the prophecy
and push it into the future,
and so they take more of the futurist route,
and then some of them reinterpret the content
of the prophecy so that it refers to something
that did happen, but it's been reinterpreted
so that, oh, the thing that we expected to happen,
we expected it to happen physically,
but actually it happened spiritually,
and so they spiritualize it and turn it into metaphor
and so forth, and they do their hermeneutical work that way.
And so that's more in the preterist direction,
but in kind of getting into the weeds
of a lot of those movements,
you realize that they're in the initial days and weeks
and months and years following the failure
of their expectation.
It's usually pretty messy,
and there's some groups that go fully into just redating
and just pushing it into the future,
and so they go a fully futurist route,
and then there are some who go in an extreme kind of,
some sociologists looking at like 19th century movements
like the Jehovah's Witnesses
or the Seventh Day Adventists
like to call a whole movement, they call ultraism,
but it was an overly realized eschatology
that believed that everything has already happened,
and what we expected to happen in 1844 did happen,
and Jesus has fully come and we're in the kingdom now,
and so they went in a full preterist direction,
but what's interesting is how the fully futurist direction
and the fully preterist direction
don't seem to have as much stickiness to them.
They don't usually get as many adherents
as having a kind of already but not yet mixture of the two.
The rationalizations that usually get the most steam
and gain the most followers is having
a kind of partial fulfillment explanation
where you spiritualize the prediction
so that it happened, but it happened partially
and it is meant to then confirm and anticipate
the full expectation that we still hold on to
that's gonna happen in the very near future.
And so in doing that, you kind of have your cake
and eat it too by having,
you're able to hold on to the core of your hope
that drove that original eschatological expectation,
which is a hope grounded in the defeat of evil.
It's the restoration of creation,
it's the resurrection of the dead,
it's that all of the wrong things
and all of the evil that we see in the world
will be made right.
God will win and everything will be made right.
If you go in the full preterist direction,
you kind of relinquish that hope
and the original drive of eschatology, you give it up.
But if you go in the full futurist direction,
then you kind of have to give up the near expectation
that you had when you said,
no, it's coming soon, it's coming soon.
You have to give that up.
And so by having an already but not yet
kind of middle ground approach,
you get to hold on to the original expectation
that is the defeat of evil
and that answer to the problem of evil,
but then you also get to maintain your belief
in the original prediction that it was gonna happen soon
and say, it did happen in a way
and we just misunderstood.
And so you can see how that kind of middle road approach
is able to gather the most adherents
and again and again in these kinds of movements
that find rationalizations.
You see that debate happening
after the failure of a prediction,
there is those who go the more full preterist route,
there's more, those who go the full futurist route
and usually there's the kind of dialectic
between the two creates a more middle ground approach
that becomes the orthodoxy or the mainstream
that the future generations usually hold on to.
But full preterism is a fascinating sociological phenomenon
to me looking at it from the cognitive dissonance perspective
because it is this group of people
who are so focused on the timing predictions
that they're willing to give up everything else
in order to justify Jesus, to get Jesus off the hook
and to get the biblical authors off the hook
for the soon predictions even to the extent of giving up
what is I think the ultimate goal of eschatology
in the first place and that's being an answer
to the problem of evil.
Yes, one of the first things that when I was going
from a partial preterist point of view
that they get you on is first of all, as a Christian,
I was like, well, if Jesus says it, I have to believe it.
Okay, Jesus says it, I have to believe it.
And this is where they get you
because they're right about this.
So let me, my intro told me this is nonsense,
that's nonsense or this is not.
Listen, they're right about some things.
Okay, did you know that?
Did you know that people can be right about some things?
But they're really right about something
that futurists ignore often.
And that is the time statements.
There are some things Jesus said that was supposed to happen
and it was supposed to happen within time,
like not far from his time or whoever the authors are
of these books that are saying Jesus said, these gospels.
Paul, some of us standing here,
like we who remain in our alive at his coming, okay?
Paul expects that in his life.
We full preterist do not shy away from that.
That's the thing because it's obvious, it's there.
Then they change the meaning of things, I would say,
but I did not think, I thought that maybe the full preterist
understood those other things in their proper context
because that's what they do.
They start the then go and let me take you back.
So now you're sold on Jesus said some things
and he said some things that were expected
because it's like you never really thought of them that way.
And you go, wow, he did mean like soon
and these things were supposed to happen so near.
Cultural historical context.
They talk about what was the authorial intent.
They wanna get into that and they're right.
There's some good stuff there.
Then they go, let's go back to Genesis.
Let's go back to that garden where God said,
in the day you eat, you will die.
Did they die that day?
No, God is not a liar, they say.
So what God said, he did not mean
what we've interpreted to mean.
Already out the bat, right out the gate in Genesis,
you already go, God said they would die when they ate
and they get kicked out, they didn't die.
So therefore death does not mean
what your eschatological model, Matt,
you're suggesting the eschatology is trying to solve.
It is not that solution.
So when you get to the end of the book,
because they think it's all one harmonious canon,
like I did as a Christian,
you see there will be no more death.
There will be no more tears and no more sorrow.
All of this, and they interpret the Genesis one scenario,
Don K. Preston, especially covenant creationists
that I was reading about how they do this,
they say this is about the law.
It's about spiritual covenantal death.
It's about covenantal death
with their covenant relationship to their God
and being cut off meant you were dead, not literal death.
Literal death never mattered.
And in fact, they could then find themselves
actually being like, you mean there was death before Adam?
Some of them can go, they can go older as creationists.
They could say, evolution's true if they want, whatever.
It opens that door and it's like,
oh, I can be sophisticated while doing this if they want.
Most of them are fundamentalists though in their approach.
But when they're looking at that,
death is not the problem in what we think of death.
Death is the cutoff of being not part of the covenant.
And then it's like, once you see that in their view
and you can willingly grab and go, yeah,
maybe death didn't mean what we think it means.
It means covenantal death.
Then they find passages where Moses speaks to Israel.
He's speaking to Israel, the context says.
And then he says, give your ears, oh heavens,
and listen, oh earth, okay?
So they interpret that heavens and earth
as a phrase together to mean the covenant people
and the covenant relationship between those people and God.
When I talked to the Hebrew scholars today,
they say heavens is where the gods dwelled,
the council of the deities.
This is not how full preterists interpret this.
I want the original.
This is why I'm not a full preterist anymore, by the way.
I'm giving you the key.
If you're listening full preterist friends,
I'm giving you the key, the answer
to what real academics are saying,
not what your harmonious Christian pastors
who are full preterists are trying to teach you.
Heavens and earth are cosmological locations.
They are literal geographical locations.
He's not using just a phrase, a coin to go,
oh, heaven and earth, yeah, we're talking about Israel.
We're talking about the gods above and the mortals below.
Listen, give your ears, oh, gods and you, mortals,
you humans, specifically the Israelites who are listening.
They say, oh, it's all just God's covenant of people.
So now when we get later on, when he says,
heaven and earth will pass away, this old covenant,
they equate and interpret, will pass away.
My words will stand forever.
So Jesus's words will be forever,
but that old covenant, those Jewish old covenant,
yeah, that's about the pass away
with the destruction of the Jerusalem temple.
Every model gets interpreted.
Second Peter three, the elements shall melt
with fervent heat, stoichiai.
Now we know philosophically speaking,
these were middle Platonist and Stoics at this time.
Paul's working within that.
I have several academics.
I did not know this as a full preterist.
We did not think within material philosophy type sense.
And that's what Paul's doing.
Second Peter three is very Stoic in Second Peter three
and its description of the elements melting
with fervent heat and all of that
is like straight up stoicism.
Right, and I just want to add this
and I want to hand you the mic,
but I'm giving them the ammunition
to really investigate the full preters to go,
why are you not a full preterist?
Don't you see it?
My full preterist friends, I get it.
Jesus made some claims about time and win
and all these things.
And so did Paul, 100% full preters taught me that.
I was like, dude, they're on the money,
but did they happen?
Is it fulfilled?
Well, of course, the realized that's gotology
will spiritualize or even say, well, it's the temple.
So the melting elements are not the stoichiai
of the universe, the cosmos.
It's actually the cosmos of the Jewish religious practice
and the inner sanctuary that had the menorah
and all of that stuff's what melted
and you want proof of it?
Read Josephus.
He even saw the armies in the clouds, et cetera.
So they find a way to make everything interpreted
through that model.
But when you go to the original Genesis context,
what is Genesis actually saying?
That they would actually die, mortals.
They would literally die in the physical sense.
And that's why he kicks them out of the garden
to not eat from the tree of life
so they won't live physically forever
and keep reproducing children in the garden.
This is the reason that God's, and I'll say God's
because it says let us make man in our image plural,
even though there's a chief deity in mind, in my opinion,
it's very Mesopotamian.
So, you know, there's so many things.
I'm kind of correcting while I'm trying to steal man
and explain along the way.
But feel free to take us wherever you on.
No, I think you put your finger on the hermeneutical ploy
that they go for is that it's this, you know,
kind of principle of scripture interpreting scripture
where it's, okay, if you say that, you know,
scripture interprets scripture, you take a canonical approach,
you take an inherently harmonistic approach
where because the word of God can't be wrong,
and that's the 66 books,
then you kind of use them,
already you're setting them up as a kind of puzzle piece
where you, anything that doesn't fit your interpretation,
you can find another passage in another book somewhere else
that is using language in a different way
because it's a different author
and they're using language in different ways,
but you can then superimpose that
on the problem passage that you have
and help it to reinterpret that passage.
But that's why it's so important to read stuff
historically in its own context,
read each book of the Bible as a book
because the Bible is not a book,
the Bible is an anthology of books and letters
and fragments of books from,
with many different genres across wide stretch
of both time and geography.
And they carry very different views,
but obviously if you have the presupposition
that they all just express God's truth
and they can't, God can't lie,
and it has to all connect perfectly together
with no contradictions,
then you've already set yourself up to misinterpret
and twist what the individual authors are saying.
But to kind of throw them a bone, I still believe,
I mean, it's some of the arguments
that NT Wright likes to make,
it's usually going back to the older prophets,
which when you're reading the older prophets,
you're reading people who,
the extent of their concern was for the nation.
And they really didn't have any conception of an afterlife,
the vast majority of the Hebrew Bible,
of the Old Testament,
doesn't really have any vision for life after death,
doesn't have any vision for resurrection.
And so the extent, the kind of the upper reaches
of its eschatology, in so far as it even has an eschatology,
is pretty limited.
It's about the nation prospering
and the nation being judged.
And so all of the prophecies, when you're reading,
let's say Isaiah, you know,
and Isaiah 13 talks about the judgment of Babylon
and it uses cosmic language about the stars
falling from heaven and so forth.
Isaiah 34 is the same kind of language,
but uses, you know, what we call cosmic disturbance,
cosmic catastrophe language,
to describe the judgment of nations.
And that's a place then where you say,
oh, well, that's metaphorical.
So you go to the New Testament,
you go to the words of Jesus,
and you go to Revelation
and where you see cosmic catastrophe language
that is being pulled from those older prophets,
you say, well, Scripture interpreting Scripture,
they must be using it in the same way.
It's metaphorical.
It's not talking about the end of creation
or second Peter three isn't talking about the elements,
literally melting with fervent heat.
It's all metaphorical.
The problem with that is that you're jumping hundreds
of years through different genres
and what you're missing is the development
of apocalyptic literature.
And when we read these texts,
historically we see a number of developments
and I think resurrection,
the development of the belief in resurrection
is a really good example
of the kind of development that we have
where if you read an older prophet like Ezekiel,
Ezekiel talks about resurrection,
but it's metaphorical,
not for literal bones coming out of the graves
and flesh being put on them and everything.
It's Ezekiel 37.
This image where Ezekiel has a vision
of these dry bones coming up out of the ground
and it's a resurrection,
but it's clear from the context
that what Ezekiel is talking about,
it's a symbolic vision for the restoration
of the nation of Israel.
And like Ezekiel's contemporaries,
he didn't actually have any conception
of physical resurrection of individuals.
What mattered was the prosperity of the nation.
That was the ultimate end in his mind.
But after Ezekiel,
with the development of apocalyptic literature,
with the book of Daniel,
especially we begin to see this shift
into the belief in personal resurrection
where Daniel is being faced.
The author of Daniel in the second century BC
is surrounded by the Seleucid Empire,
all of this persecution of his contemporaries,
the Maccabean revolt, et cetera.
And the wise Daniel, the authors of Daniel,
the community that he's a part of,
they're dying.
And he's made all of these promises
that they would inherit the kingdom
and that the temple would be restored
and that the angel Michael would come
and wage war on their behalf.
And yet they're dying.
So what gives?
How can with this delay
and these promises that we've made,
how can these faithful Israelites enjoy the promises?
The answer is that they're gonna be resurrected.
And he takes the language from his tradition
and he literalizes it.
And he begins, it's the first example that we have
in first clear, an indisputable example is Daniel 12 to
where he talks about the dead being raised
and receiving eternal life
and the wicked receiving judgment
and eternal shame and contempt.
But it's a final judgment scene.
And then into the New Testament,
they carry that apocalyptic belief in literal resurrection.
And if you're going to then,
look at that literal resurrection belief
in the New Testament and,
make an argument from Ezekiel 37
that because Ezekiel uses that language metaphorically,
you can then kind of cut and paste that
onto the New Testament and argue
against literal resurrection.
It's just, that's not how we read texts.
You have to see that these things develop.
And the same thing goes with the cosmic catastrophe language.
Apocalyptic literature,
unlike earlier prophetic literature,
does begin to think cosmically.
It begins to think of the actual destruction
and restoration of the material world.
And not just the prosperity or judgment
of specific nations within the world,
they begin to think about the entire world as a thing.
And you got to recognize those developments
if you're actually going to read these texts
within their own historical context
and be interested in what the authors are saying
and what they mean in those contexts
instead of just thinking harmonistically.
Amen.
You hit the nail on the head.
So many things you said that are just really,
really good to point out.
Yes, they will absolutely,
full preterist will absolutely show
that what looks to be apocalyptic metaphorical,
they'll say, it looks apocalyptic
because so the mountains will melt
and the stars will fall.
And what is it describing?
The destruction of Babylon
or the destruction of Syria or whatever it might be.
It has this language.
And you have spoke briefly about how Robert Carroll
may think that in those situations,
some of the Jews may have even thought
this was really the end,
but redactors may have come in and polished it up
and said, okay, hold up, hold up.
So it's a metaphor for what happened to this nation.
But after Plato, and when you have Alexander the Great
that really brings Hellenism to the world,
which would include the philosophy of the Greeks,
which has these layers of from staunch materialism
where we're at kind of our lowest form
to the highest level of like pure,
I guess you would say ether almost,
like the highest spiritual Numa level
where there is no material necessarily like what we have.
It's a different kind of thing that can go all the way up.
This material cosmos, the elements will melt, right?
We see this, that is a problem.
Paul constantly discusses flesh.
I know that that gets interpreted
through full preterist lens of like law.
And they wanna say like flesh is law
and law is this bad thing.
So it's like got a Protestanty kind of thing to it as well.
Rather than seeing it as like,
no, this probably even is like a dispute
between other law type factions of Jews
and his version of a law of Christ,
which is not the same kind of law.
So we have like this weird diaspora dispute
probably happening amongst Paul and other Jewish sects.
It's not like anti-tour to the point
of like have nothing to do with it.
No, he talks about it being a teacher.
Not a bad thing.
Long story short though,
what I thought what you did was great
is pointing out how they hermeneutically leap
and they overwhelmingly reference the Hebrew scripture
as an interpretive model for the new.
So they jump to Isaiah says and Micah says
and Hosea says and such and such says.
And this is the same problem with a splinter sect
from full preterism called Israel only.
This group goes even further
and you've probably never even heard of this group,
but just to whet your appetite.
They believe the end happened in 70.
Most of them don't believe at all anymore.
Most of them, they believe that the Gentiles,
the nations, that term shouldn't be Gentiles.
They don't like that.
They don't like Goyim or Gentiles to mean non-Israelites.
They'll say it means non-Jews,
but Jews only encompass the Southern tribes.
These nations were the 10 Northern lost Israelites,
the tribes of the Israelites.
So the gathering of the lost Israelites
needed to come in before the end.
They interpret this model that the Goyim, the Ethne,
the nations are actually the diaspora
from the Assyrian conquest
where the Northern Israel was destroyed
and they were scattered among the nations of the earth.
That Paul's mission is to save the lost Israelites
and that's who these people are
and they're bringing them in.
There's no end to how full preterism will go
at any link to make these things hermeneutically
and theologically make sense.
But back to full preterism,
just the basic forms of it that is the majority view,
like they aren't realizing how much
recontextualization is taking place
in the New Testament when it's quoting.
There is Christopher D. Stanley,
who I think is the leading guy on this.
He talks about Paul's misuse of scripture
and it's misuse if we're reading it
as if Paul means what he's quoting.
He never means, literally never,
in any reference he ever quotes.
Take me to task on this.
Go watch my videos on this with Christopher D. Stanley.
There's not a single reference
where Paul quotes the Hebrew scriptures
and he means exactly what the context says
in the Hebrew scriptures, never.
Oftentimes, if you had Paul's,
like imagine we didn't have the Hebrew scriptures
and we discovered them one day
and we were like reading Paul,
we would think that, for example,
you shout out muzzle and ox
and I mentioned this yesterday, right?
You would think, okay, hold on,
maybe the law is actually a spiritual lesson
about the apostles, but it's foretold and foreshadowed.
We go to read that in the in original context.
These guys are really worried about cattle
and really cared about how the animal abuse
was taking place or how you should treat your animals
because they were agricultural,
they were trying to survive.
They never had in mind these future apostles
that are running around.
Yeah, you gotta pay them, man.
So the way Paul uses scripture
is not what it originally meant.
That's not even getting into what you said, Matt,
because what you said is like, yeah,
I agree with you, Derek, there's this recontextualization
and they're using it as if it's a living document
to their own means and purposes.
But by the time of the first century,
if we use a heuristic approach,
comparing apocalyptic literature
as John Jay Collins and others have,
you have a cosmic end of human history
expectation taking place.
And the language is very similar
to what we're finding in Paul
in the New Testament, in the Gospels,
yet worse of us to run and say this all means metaphorical
or all is some like corporate spiritual thing
when all of the Jewish literature around there,
second type of literature, late second type of literature,
is saying this stuff with the same thing in mind.
So it's again a special pleading kind of thing,
like, oh, but this doesn't mean that because this is true.
Rather than, well, what do Jews think?
And that's why Schweitzer and others who came in and said,
we need to set this text within Jewish context,
at least to try and see, what did Jews think?
What were Jews expecting?
They weren't thinking an Ezekiel
of like just nationalistic, corporate,
some metaphor to describe our nation never ending.
And one of the views Don K. Preston leading guy has
is corporate body view.
And there's others who have individual body view.
All right, so he thinks the resurrection
is the corporate body of Christ is some spiritual bride
and like it's not individualistic.
Whereas the individual body view of full predator say,
when you die to be absent from the Lord is to be present,
to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord.
And they think when you die,
you then face judgment and stuff like that.
So there's different forms of it
and they aren't in agreement in full predatorism
because the New Testament isn't in agreement.
I'm done rambling your turn.
No, I don't have anything to say in response to that.
But I mean, it's just as with any kind of apologetic approach
to the Bible or anything, it's just, you know,
if you're gonna think historically,
you cannot be an apologist because it is corrosive
to the aims of trying to think historically about any text.
You have your interest first and foremost has to be,
what is this author saying in this context
at this time and place?
And you have to be devoted to that and that only.
If you're also devoted to agreeing with them,
if you have a prior commitment
that what they say must be true
and it must agree with all of these 65 other books,
then you at least have to recognize the potential
that you are going to be twisting what that author is saying
in order to fit it with those other authors
or vice versa.
And that's not how you do interpretation of anything.
That is not the way to go.
Don't be an apologist because you're gonna find yourself
doing exactly the kinds of things that full preterists do
and go just bending yourself into the craziest knots
in order to try and come out the other side
and say, Jesus wasn't wrong.
Yeah.
I got a couple of examples, couple of examples,
and then we'll wrap up.
But first thing is in the Acts I Ascension narrative,
several academics who are in New Testament scholarship
who aren't as critical as the scholars I like the most,
try to find Jewish precedents for these narratives we find.
And I get it, it's easy to find it is written.
So if it's written, you know they're using scripture.
So they only wanna look there
instead of the larger zeitgeist of the world
in which this literature is in.
And it's all written in Greek, mind you.
So you're like, all right, you're already dealing
with people who are in a Greek culture
with a Greek writing style, with Greek literature,
screw the fact that there's all this other Greek literature.
We need to focus on only the Greek book of the LXX.
Get out of my face with that, okay?
So Allison agreed just to get in one point
about the Romulus connection.
Well, I just wanna highlight that for everybody
who's watching that might be full preterists
who's never heard that the Ascension of Jesus in Acts 1.8
is actually a Romulus kind of retelling,
but Jesus is greater than Romulus.
And there's more witnesses there, not just one.
So they're watching him go up,
they see him with their eyeballs, leave.
There's a term there, and I don't know the Greek word
off the top of my head, but it's in like manner.
You will see him come back.
What do they do?
They find this Greek term being used in Matthew 23.
Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem,
how often I would have gathered you like a hen
gathers her chicks.
See, in like manner doesn't mean literal,
and it's just silly.
So I want you to comment just briefly on that, of course,
and then I wanna run to Revelation.
No, I mean, it's without even getting into the Greek,
you can see how ridiculous that is
because if you just use the word like,
you can see from different contexts.
In Acts 1, in like manner, just as he ascended,
he will also descend.
You can see that the use of the word like there
is not being used in the sense of metaphor or a simile,
but is saying in the same way that he left,
he will also return.
Read Matthew 23, how I've wanted to gather you like
a mother hen, gather, it's clear that that is a simile.
Context, context, context.
Like, you can't just be jumping around and saying,
because a word is used this way in one place,
in this context, means it must be used in that way
in every other place.
That's not how we do interpretation.
That's not how we do, that's not how etymology works.
Like, it's like me saying, you know, if I said,
you know, if I use the word gay, you say,
well, you know, if you go back 100 years,
the way people use the word gay in literature 100 years ago,
it meant happy.
And therefore, I must be just saying I'm happy.
And he's like, well, no, time and place matters.
Context matters.
Etymology matters.
You can't just jump around like that and say,
because a word hundreds of years ago was used in one way,
or in a different time and place, it was used in one way,
it must be used that way in another place.
That's not how language works.
And it's important noting, it's a different author,
of course, they're going to.
So I know they think scripture's living,
so they'll come up with any way,
but getting to Revelation and just to highlight
one of the things that really made me go,
what even today, this is a weird thing.
Follow me on this one, this one's really weird.
Many ex-Christians who have de-converted,
who no longer believe, who were full-preterist
in the same camp as me, same tribe,
did the same things and look and saw the same arguments
that I did and all of that, cannot get out of it.
And what I mean is, they no longer believe
and they still think the best interpretation of scripture
is full-preterism, that they still think Revelation
is all about Babylon being Jerusalem.
They still haven't exited that understanding of scripture,
even though they no longer believe it.
And it's shocking to me, because it's like,
once I left, I wanted to scrutinize and pick apart
even the thing that was kind of a catalyst
to leading me in this direction that led me down
a path of my own deconstruction.
The other night, the first person who ever nailed it,
seeing how I started seeing language and words,
can have layers of meaning and things,
because you see what happens when you can interpret things
in various ways.
But I started to notice that and I was like, what?
So even today on MythVision,
when I post something that's talking about Revelation 17,
the city on the seven hills and this whore of Babylon,
like I'll say stuff, dude, I don't think you can get
any clear on who this is as Rome,
and they think it's Jerusalem.
We know the seven hills city was ubiquitously understood
in this literature, in this historical context
and setting all over as Rome.
There's no other city in the world, in the known world.
You can't go to China and find something like this, okay?
And it is Rome, and it not only is Rome,
it's the second Babylon, the whore of Babylon.
It's like almost common sense.
Who destroyed Jerusalem the first time?
Babylon.
Who destroyed Jerusalem the second time?
Jerusalem destroyed Jerusalem?
That's the logic that they're almost insisting on.
Well, the leadership within Jerusalem
caused the destruction of Jerusalem.
They may have in some way,
but that's a weird logic to not realize.
Rome came in and crushed Jerusalem.
And there's other things in that same context
that they ruled over the kings of the earth.
Jerusalem ruled Jack Diddly Squat.
They also had a lot of merchant,
they had a lot of, Rome was obviously the one
who was in charge of the influx of all of these things
that get listed in Revelation.
Now, where they get you is they go,
it's the kind of the Kenneth Gentry,
Gary DeMar Revelation interpretation of pre-70 AD.
And they want you to realize this is all pre-70.
Go measure, here's the measuring rod
measure the temple.
The temple must have been standing
as if the visionary experience given to one
of the prophets of the Old Testament
to go measure the temple.
This is a heavenly sanctuary.
It's not even an earthly one,
but Revelation 11 talks about the city
where our Lord was crucified called Sodom.
Not called Babylon, called Sodom.
I think that's Jerusalem.
I have no problem with seeing both play a role in this,
but it makes zero sense to make this all about Jerusalem.
Then have this weird mark of the beast representing Nero.
Who is he?
Like the emperor of Rome?
It's really, really odd.
So there's, I had to swallow this pill
after leaving full preterism and becoming a non-Christian
to go, Revelation's actually about Rome, mostly.
And those who cooperate with her,
who affornicate with her.
You know who else had to swallow that pill is anti-right.
He, it's one of the few things that I've actually seen him
change his mind on over the years he used to
and has written a lot on Babylon
in Revelation 17, being Jerusalem.
But he had to face the facts on it
and he changed his mind a number of years
and was like, no, it's Rome, it's Rome.
So full preterist needs to take a page from that.
And I mean, he is the most credible person
who scholar who argues in their direction times,
but he had to bite the bullet on that and realize,
no, it's Babylon, the harlot in Revelation 17.
It's, you can't argue, it's Rome, for sure.
And one more thing, and we'll end this,
is how they reinterpret things.
Like Daniel, in Jewish literature, after Daniel,
many Jews start to incorporate that kingdom at the feet
that gets crushed by the rock as Rome.
Originally, this was Greece.
This did not have Rome in mind.
So it's like a rolling idea through history
that like we do today, there's a way in which
the Protestants didn't want, I mean, Martin Luther
didn't think Revelation was part of scripture.
Next thing you know, he realized,
look at what the Pope's doing to me.
Oh, you know what, I know who these people are.
It's the Roman Catholic Church.
So the interpretation keeps continuing
and it keeps incorporating the modern contemporary thing
because it's still alive,
probably cognitive dissonance in some way.
And the fact that the Jews are still holding on to Daniel
and using the modern Roman Empire,
when Daniel's writing, he's not dealing with that.
He's dealing with cellicids, he's dealing with other people.
These aren't Rome.
Rome is not the feat and John J. Collins writes this
in his commentary, but we see Jews later interpret Daniel
as Rome and this is what I'm trying to say about Revelation.
It's like, come on, get with the program,
but full preters want to act like it's Jerusalem.
And I can't help but think, my final thing on that is that
it's almost inherently anti-Semitic or anti-Jewish,
not realizing its tendencies.
You want to save the Savior so much
that the climatic part of history,
the best part of history is when God destroys his own people
according to the perception.
And there's a part where it says there will be
great tribulation, none ever that has come before
or ever since then.
And when you bring up the Holocaust,
which is far more people dying in way worse situations
in many ways, maybe, I'm not gonna say way worse.
Okay, it could have been just as bad.
There was cannibalism going on in the temple
when they were kept in by the Romans, et cetera.
It was bad, no matter what, it was ugly.
Both horrible, but way more Jews died.
Some of the full preters will go so far as to say,
those aren't real Jews.
So now they get into this whole,
it goes into this Ashkenazi thing,
it gets lost into conspiracy theories.
It's, well, God took his people away,
so they aren't real Jews.
You see the tendency for anti-Semitism that rises from this.
No, anti-Semitism is for sure, it goes in that direction.
But also, I think the point that you just made
about the way that apocalyptic literature like Revelation
and like Fort Ezra, Second Baruch, the Enoch literature,
the way that it reinterprets Daniel,
I think it's important to register how the New Testament,
and even how you were talking about Paul
and the way that he's never quoting the Old Testament
in its own context, he's constantly reinterpreting it.
And that was normal practice.
Paul wasn't doing anything unusual in that time and place,
but I think it's important to register just how
the reinterpretive strategies of the New Testament
and of apocalyptic literature to revive previous
prophetic texts that failed, and to keep them alive,
to keep Daniel alive, to project it into the future,
or to say that it's been fulfilled in whatever,
but to find a way to maintain faith
is constantly giving them new tools in their toolbox
because they create a culture of dissonance reduction
that is giving different rationalizations,
different strategies for whichever direction
you wanna take anything.
And so the futurists get tons of ammo
from the New Testament itself,
from the Hebrew Bible itself,
in order to make their arguments.
Preterists get, there's tons of ammo
from the book of Revelation.
I mean, even as we were just talking
about the book of Revelation and the way that it,
it's apocalyptic literature is so obscure,
and it's talking about Babylon,
and we're arguing about whether Babylon is Rome
or Jerusalem, and it's, so it's already metaphorical.
It is, it's not Babylon, it's something else,
and it's speaking symbolically,
but the way that apocalyptic literature functions like that
is already giving ammunition to people
to hedge, to reinterpret, to double down.
When it doesn't happen like they hoped it would,
it enables them to maintain faith and to reinterpret it.
And so I think recognizing that
and seeing the way that the full preterists,
what they're doing and the extremes that they're going to,
they do have precedent in the Bible itself
for that kind of hermeneutical work that they're doing.
They're just taking it to extremes
and a kind of logical consistency
that is just laser focused on this one hermeneutical route
there are other routes that the New Testament
and apocalyptic literature goes in, in addition to that.
But this is why I think cognitive dissonance
is so important to understand
because it explains all of that hermeneutical activity
and it shows what is driving that,
the engine of self-justification,
the engine of trying to maintain faith in the thing
that didn't actually, that wasn't fulfilled,
that there are cracks showing and you have to recover it.
What do you do?
Do you just walk away?
No, you rationalize
and that's what it is.
