I'm probably preaching to the choir when I say that the New Testament is literature, meaning
looking at it as some historical evidence of what really literally happened through and through
is just vain. Honestly, it's futile because there's so much theology, there's so much imitation of
Hebrew Scriptures, there is what I would say imitation of the Greek literature and potentially
the Latin literature, Virgil's Aeneid. Today I bombard my friend David McDonald's YouTube
channel with some super chats as I do from time to time. And I asked Dr. Robin Faith Walsh
very important questions pertaining to this literature. I haven't really heard her spell it
out this way, so I ask it. The demoniac in Mark looks awfully like what Dennis McDonald says is
in The Odyssey with Cersei the Witch and Polyphemus, which is the book right before Cersei the Witch.
Of course, nothing is a Xerox copy. If you find Xerox copies, the authors are just not very clever.
They do the same thing by rewriting Jesus into the better Elijah, the better Moses. This happens
all throughout the New Testament. However, people are quick to jump on board and go,
you know what, actually, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm willing to do that with the Jewish material,
but God forbid we touch that other stuff. Dr. Walsh answers the questions that I bring to the table.
And one is, do you think that this is pointing back to Homer? Or do you also think that maybe
Heracles that is found in Virgil's Aeneid with this cave, a monstrous beast in this cave?
Is there anything happening there as well? Is it one or the other? Could it be both?
What is the inspiration here? Do you think this is happening? And then I had to jab in
that whole Wee passages thing. Is the Wee passages in Luke acts really literal or literary?
And she gives her answer on that one. It's not as long, but I really hope you go subscribe to
Deep Drinks. My buddy David's doing some great work there. And of course, Dr. Robin Faith Walsh
has a course on Paul. We're about to launch the course on the Gospels that we did with her. So
please let us know in the comment section your thoughts. I'd love to hear them. Drop a comment,
like the video, share this out, and check out our description. We've got courses,
we've got all sorts of great things that we're doing here at MythVision.
MythVision podcast, $5. Thank you, Dr. Walsh. I'm sorry, not Dr. Walsh.
Robin Walsh, sorry. Did I money out? I don't know why Derek's saying Dr. Walsh.
She can be an Australian. I should give you an Australian, like Nickname. Walsh or something,
I don't know. That's what my family calls me. Bolly famous. And Cersei, look, very similar.
Do you think this couple with Virgil's Hercules cave account is being imitated?
Yeah, sure. I think that these are the kind of things we definitely need to look at. Dennis
McDonald would probably say go back to Homer. I like Dennis's method, but I think that Derek's
asking this in part because he knows I have an article coming out saying Mark read Virgil,
which I appreciate the opportunity for the plug. But I think that these kinds of motifs
are informing these authors for a variety of possible reasons, not only, let's say,
we've speculated maybe filling in a gap, but they're missing otherwise,
trying to allude to the importance of their narrative relative to other narratives that are
out there, but also as possibly an apologetic. My foundational account is as important as
something like what Virgil or Homer is producing. It's the same kind of cultural impact and
import. So I think that it's a strategy that goes across the board.
Awesome. Another five dollars to chat from the vision. What are a few of your favorite
imitations in the gospel in the virtual Homer or any Greek sources? Can you explain why it's
imitation you to bomb? Yes, sure. Thanks for the for the softball. So the thing that I argue in
the article that's going to come out is that especially in Mark, there's a tendency sometimes
it's referred to as the messianic secret or ally to that concept, but Jesus keeps telling people
don't tell anybody who I am on one hand, but also repeatedly in the text, no one seems to know who
Jesus is. So Jesus will come in, he'll perform some kind of miracle and everybody is the word
as Thalma in Greek. Everybody is dumbfounded. They're like flowing out of their minds and
bewildered and they don't understand what they've just seen and they run away like dazed and confused
who was that guy, right? So that happens over and over again. That term Thalma happens in
Virgil happens in other writers too, but I latched on to Virgil. And again, Homer too is
operational here, but I think Virgil is the closer corollary temporally, but also in terms of the
content. He has figures like Camilla come in to scenes where you know, she's such a subversive
character because she's like a military figure, but she's a woman. I think the phrase is that,
you know, she's not concerned with the baskets of Minerva, you know, like she's
very much like this martial character. And when she will like ride into town, people are,
she's a Thalma, people are dumbfounded, they're bewildered, they're almost going out of their
minds. They don't know how to make sense of this person because she is such a subversive character.
And so I argue that in terms of like literary construction, it seems to me that the author of
the Gospel of Mark, you know, we ascribe to this idea of Thalma some kind of theological category
like messianic secret, right? There must be a theological reason nobody knows who he is. Oh,
he's trying to delay his own, you know, execution by telling people, like by telling people not to
reveal who he is, or by instilling this kind of confusion, because if he instills this confusion,
then he can delay the inevitable, you know, like crucifixion. Sure, that could be part of what's
going on, except it's very much a literary motif that you find in virtual, right? So like there are
characters that come in, nobody understands who they are, because they're so outside of the ordinary
and people are dumbfounded and they walk away like bewildered who was that person. So it's just
another literary motif. And then this opens up a whole other set of issues, you know, is the author
of the Gospel of Mark reading Latin, probably, you know, based on the way people were educated,
the way libraries were constructed. It's just it opens up a whole other, you know, again,
range of possibilities for thinking about these authors. Is it like if the Gospels were written
in like ancient Chinese, that we if like you start quoting like the Tao Tao Ching, oh, I think it's
the Tao Tao, yeah, you'd be like, hmm, something suspicious here, like is it is it kind of like
that? Is that is like, you know, something I did in the book, you asked me before we started, like,
what's something no one's asked you about, I'll tell you, that book is full, I did it on purpose,
is littered with my own cultural references, so that someone in the future would know when I wrote
it. And they would know what I listen to and what I watch and what. And I mean, everybody does that
to some extent, you can't avoid it to to your point, you know, these things, these culturally
dominant narratives make their way in as we integrate ourselves into them as new writers as
thinkers, who emerge, you know, within a particular time and space. But I did it on purpose, so that
people could really see what I was trying. It's kind of like a meta thing that I did in the book.
Yeah. And some of it's obvious, like I talk about Francois Gilot at the end of the book.
Some of it is like a footnote to the Beatles, you know, I think I have a day in the life I
ended up keeping that that's John Lennon, you know, I'm obsessed with John Lennon, I was born in 1980.
You know, like you, so it'd be like, you know, Nirvana is going to show up somewhere and something,
I write. I can almost hear your husband in the background going, I love that.
No, but like these are the, this is how I grew up, you know, and it puts me in time and space.
I'm writing an article right now that quotes little Kim, like in the title, like I'm trying to
like include these things. They date me and they're probably a little corny, but it actually to me is
displaying the thing that I'm doing to the ancient texts, right? And you can, from there,
extrapolate all kinds of things about influences and, you know, some of it's encoded in the scholars
I cite, you can probably figure out where I went to school, you know, and you can decide if it
matters that I'm a mother or whatever else, right? Based on the, but I try to do that as like another
intentional level of discourse in the book. So yeah, I think these things are out there.
That's awesome. You know, I, I didn't grow up with the beetle. Well, I probably did, but I
didn't like the Beatles or anything until I read Haruki Murakami's novel, Norwegian Wood.
It's a bit perverted. It's a bit, it's teen angst, depression, you know, like all that kind of
stuff that you go through as a young adult. And, and that book is written about, is Norwegian Wood,
but it's, it references the song. And when I asked her, I was like, I wonder what the song
is about. And I listened to the song and that song hit me. Like it, like it's, it's somehow
like, he's a brilliant writer. He just wrapped it all up for me. And it was just like, I could see
the story, even though it's not really about what the story, it's just, I don't know how to
describe it, but I became a huge fan. And since then I put on, here comes the sun and, you know,
Norwegian Wood, and I'm bathing our boy Atlas. So yeah. So MythFish and again, the wee passages,
literal, literary or literal, why? Literary.
How can they? There, there, there's a tradition of wee passages. So sometimes, I think it happens
in acts. I think Luke occasionally slips into a second person plural, a plural voice. So like,
we went into do this and we went to do that. But there's, there's some scholarship out there,
several articles about how this is a common thing that happens in other kinds of ancient
literature. And it's just kind of like a inclusive phrase. So I'll defer to, I'll find, if I can
follow up the bibliography, I can't remember the name of the person who wrote the article.
I don't know why I have such a blank on this. And I, you know, this article comes up all the time.
And I have to ask my friends, like, who was that again? So it's really shameful. But there's,
there's some, there's some literature out there on the wee passages. And so I would just recommend
take a look on academia.edu is a great place to find this stuff for free.
Academia.edu. Okay. No worries.
