Welcome back to MythVision and Paula Gia, live, welcome.
We are here to unburden Paul from the troubles
that he has experienced.
And I realized right before we hit live, Paul,
that you read a thousand pages,
I mean, roughly you read his book, Gary Habermas' book.
You may wanna show that for evidence so people can know.
I do, I was just thinking, yeah, 1054,
we got the, on the, on the evidences.
And that resolves it, right?
Or is there three more books or something?
There's three more.
So actually just today, the volume two went on pre-sale
for September, which is like, that's way too soon.
So now I have to like get another thousand pages
in September and deal with this first, this one first.
But yeah, so he split for those who don't know,
Gary Habermas, a resurrection scholar, well-known,
I think in evangelical circles as the inventor
of the minimal facts argument, he has spent,
according to him, he's self-reported
that he spent the last 14 years
and put in over 32,000 hours on his,
what he was calling his magnum opus
for like a resurrection book.
And he ended up, you know, talking to publishers
and they're all like, yeah, no one wants
a 5,000 page book, Gary.
So you gotta, he's gotta split that up.
So he split it up into four.
The first one, which came out in January,
is called the evidences.
So it's his positive case.
He's putting forth just the best case,
his minimal facts and hit the support for it
and we'll get into that.
Second volume, which is coming out in September
is called refutations or something like that or responses.
It is, it's another 1,000 pages to deal with
people like myself, I guess,
who have naturalistic or other hypotheses.
So it's refutation of other hypotheses.
Volume three, which is what I'm most interested in
is not gonna sell well at all,
is going to be literally his hard data.
So he surveyed 200, he alleges
that he surveyed 200 New Testament scholars
or adjacent to New Testament scholarship with a long survey.
And that third volume is supposed to be just the raw data.
That's what I'm frankly most excited about
because you can't, like he makes these very broad claims
about like 75%, except the empty tomb.
But what does that mean, right?
When you drill down to it and is there,
is it heterogeneous at all?
Is there a single skeptic who falls in that camp?
Like I'm excited about volume three,
I'm sure it's gonna sell terribly.
And then volume four is going to be
like a devotional life lesson kind of a thing,
like just his random thoughts about-
Is it like a pragmatic book in a way?
Yeah, it's supposed to be how we take it in.
Like I might not even buy volume four
because it's, unless he convinces me,
maybe add three volumes in, I'll be convinced.
But yeah, it's-
I don't know how you do it.
Well, anyway, he also had at least five staff
on the book, on with him at the same time.
So this was quite an endeavor.
And I read it in about two weeks, the first volume.
And I am now getting myself ready.
I had to put it down for a little while as you can imagine.
And I'm now getting ready to do a more formal review
on my channel and maybe some more formal reviews
elsewhere.
But yeah, but Derek, you ping me about this book.
And I'm like, I've got it open right now.
Why don't we talk about it?
Sure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I was like, we've talked about briefly mentioning it
about its repetitiveness, of course.
But I'm curious to know in the first volume
what you as a skeptic ran across.
And what did you find that he was doing in this,
that is it the same stuff we've been hearing
for a while online?
Like what did you hear?
Was there anything new that was being brought
to the table in your view?
Yeah, anything new.
I would say, I mean, here and there,
there would be a different, like a different citation
that I had in the scene, but not for a new idea.
Like there was, I think if you have
the Habermas Lycona book, which is on my shelf over there
somewhere, you know, the three or 400 page one.
I mean, it's the same facts.
This was clearly meant to be a couple of things.
One, it was meant to be a reference book.
Not, it was not meant to be red cover to cover.
That much was clear to me because again, each chapter,
it went ahead and repeated things if it needed to
to make the case just for that one thing.
So there's, you know, this could have been maybe 800 pages
if it had been intended to be red cover to cover.
But I don't blame him.
Like he wanted to have the ultimate chapter on burial
or the ultimate chapter on did Jesus exist?
And so in that way, it's a huge reference tome.
And maybe not even bad for kind of like a Wikipedia article
and be good in that you go and you immediately go
to the footnotes and see, oh, well, what's the list
of the definitive literature I should read?
Not the Wikipedia article.
I think Gary's book is doing that service as like,
oh, here's, if you want to be read on burial, for example,
you know, you should probably read everyone
in Gary's footnotes.
So in that way, it's a bit of a service.
But, you know, I don't think that he intends
that everyone's even going to read 1000 pages, right?
I feel like this is one of those books
that people want to have on their shelf
so that they can affirm for themselves
that there is good evidence.
I think your test, I don't know if your testimony
is similar to mine, but so many decades of my Christian faith
were sitting in the pew going like my Bible school teacher
and my pastor and all these people,
they're telling me that they have the evidence.
So I'm a busy guy.
I'm working on movies.
I'm doing other stuff.
I'm like, I'm just going to take your word for it
that you've got the evidence and if I ever need it,
I'll come check.
I feel like that's what this book is going to be for.
It's like to assure you that if I ever need, you know,
to answer a question about James, the brother of Jesus,
you know, and his visions,
well, then I've got it on my shelf.
But it's just more of that self assurance.
I think I've now lost track
of what the initial question was.
No, no, no, I'm glad you're venting here.
Yeah, I am venting a little bit.
Your mind was blown.
I mean, you have to get this out.
We're here for you, Paul.
Don't be afraid.
Just say what you feel.
Yeah, no, seriously, about the book though,
was there, I guess, like you said,
it's not addressing the skeptic.
It's mainly just kind of giving the person
who might have their doubts,
but this is not like going to be a case
to try and overturn the skeptic
or someone who's like overly critical or is it?
I feel like he, it's more meta than that.
I feel like he wrote it so that if you already are
in the faith, he's giving lip service to saying
that here's what a skeptical person should think or do,
so that as a believer, you're reading this and saying,
oh, yeah, Gary's really gonna get some converts
with this one, you know, but again,
it's not steel manning the stuff.
Let me just talk a little bit
about the first chapter and the last chapter,
just to kind of, because it directly relates to this point.
So the first chapter is all about just supernatural bias.
And it's just kind of saying, you shouldn't have a bias
against the supernatural and, you know,
and it's talking about bias in general
and admitting that he has bias
and all these other scholars have bias,
but man, if you, you know, none of this book
is gonna mean anything unless you give up
that naturalism that you got on your head right now, right?
So it's a whole chapter just trying to tempt you
to at least let your guard down on naturalism.
Right.
And then the last chapter, inexplicably,
is a huge chapter on NDE's.
Wow, interesting.
Wait, this is a resurrection book.
Like I thought I was done.
I got to the end of middle facts.
Now we got a whole separate, almost a whole book,
just on NDE's, like non near death experiences
of those who aren't in the lingo on this stuff.
And so that whole chapter is kind of similar
to when Mike Lacona debated Matt Dillahunty
and he started the whole debate
with the whole thing about flying trash lids.
I don't know if you remember that one.
Yes, I remember that.
But that was, again, to kind of let the guard down
of, well, if I can convince you
that the supernatural exists,
then all the chapters in between
are gonna make more sense.
But we're acknowledging in the first
and the last chapter that we don't have enough,
there's not enough resurrection evidence
to get you over that hump of naturalism.
So we have to go elsewhere.
And that's both refreshing, right?
Because that's a little bit of a soberness
about your own cases that, well, okay,
if you're committed to naturalism,
the evidence isn't great.
But also just that plea, right?
That whole, I feel like it's a bit of a facade.
Like if you're even a methodological naturalist,
he doesn't ever attempt to accept,
why testimony wouldn't be,
and maybe that's involving too,
why testimony wouldn't be possibly mistaken
or possibly lying.
He just kind of goes with this positive evidence
saying, well, we're accepting the Pauline letters
at least at their word.
Right, right.
So anyway.
This whole thing you just described,
I mean, I'm thinking about the chasm
between drawing the conclusion
of an affirmative resurrection
and this massive chasm of trying to get someone
from somewhere that is not convinced at all,
someone like you and me who almost would need,
I've gone on record saying at least,
what would hypothetically in my mind
convince me would be a doubting Thomas scenario in my life.
Me being surrounded by 12 family members
or a group of family members
and here in the midst of nowhere,
Jesus appears, I physically feel,
I know I'm not dreaming, this isn't hallucination,
all these things like, okay,
you've done something to overcome my doubt.
Thank you for doing that.
You did it for Thomas, why can't you do it for me?
I've kind of pointed this out to others.
But what I find interesting is near-death experiences
or they try to go to miracle accounts,
somewhat contemporaneous and things
to get you to think maybe there's stuff going on.
And then they try to hold your hand
to pull you to their conclusions.
And I find that ironic because I'm doing documentaries
right now that are like taking the sources
that are really well-established sources
from a scholar named Wendy Cotter's book.
And it places the miracles, exorcisms
and things like that in their historical context
before, during and after the time of Jesus
from other figures, from gods and heroes,
Isis, Heracles, Asclepius, Vespasian
with healing miracles and such,
Apollonius, Itaiana, Pythagoras,
these are philosophers and some of them are kings
and some of them are just normal humans
who become gods when they die,
according to their own stories,
just like Jesus becomes a god.
Anyway, so I try to give this level playing field.
And so like at the end of the day,
he's just trying to get you to at least think it could be.
And I think would you agree that many
who are doing this kind of apologetic,
when I bring up these comparisons
and you know I'm known for that,
I do the walk like a duck, talk like a duck thing
and they get annoyed and they're like,
that doesn't do anything just cause there's correlation,
doesn't mean causation, things like that.
I get it, that's true.
But when I look at it, I'm like it looks
like it's doing very similar things as this genre
that we can establish is either fable, legend, myth,
whatever you'd like to call it in birth narratives
and death narratives and just miraculous deeds
that the other people are doing.
It looks very much not identical,
but similar in nature.
How do we know this one's true and that one's not?
And it should level the playing field out
in terms of you would think
and not special plead one over the other.
You would think, I would think.
What are your thoughts about that?
Well, I definitely am with you
and I've had I think a journey,
I think both of our journeys on all this
has been like all around the map.
So yeah, it definitely was inspired by the Greeks.
Well, maybe they just knew about it at school.
Like I think I'm open to,
I think my current model is that the gospels
were probably a combination
of kernels of historical truth, legendary development,
finding prophecy in the Hebrew Bible to connect to
and then the influence,
what we would call the cultural influences today, right?
So the Homeric ethics
and like everything that they learned in school.
And I feel like if a model probably should encompass
like all four of those, right?
Like there's probably kernels of all those things
could no literary work is directly inspired
even like Lion King, which is Hamlet.
Well, it's notes, but it also brings in other things, right?
So anyway, that's my thoughts.
Gary avoids a lot of that
because he wants to have his cake and eat it too
in this book because he wants to do minimal facts
which can avoid the gospels entirely.
For those of you who don't know the minimal facts argument,
it's a couple of, and I guess we can later on,
we can go through what the facts are,
but they're drawn not on the gospels,
but on Pauline letters and then external history.
And then, but then he has a whole back third of the book saying,
but I do think the gospels are reliable though.
Like it's almost like a polemic against the Magruse
for several chapters because he goes through each gospel,
including the gospel of Thomas and a few of that.
And he definitely uses the gospel of Hebrews
to defend a few things.
So he wants to have, he wants the first half of the book
is like, I only rely on Paul
because that's all the skeptics will give me.
But then also the gospels are true.
So he has to do a little bit of a shell game
with exactly what you spoke of
because he wants to say, well, no,
the gospels can be reliable
even though they have supernatural things
because, hey, the biography of Caesar, for example,
has ghosts and other weird things in it, right?
So you consider that historical.
So the gospel should also be historical,
but he never comes around to realizing,
no, but we all reject the weird part, right?
Like, well, that's how we do that.
As historians do it, we say, yeah,
the ghosts and the visions, those we ignore
and the battle we pay attention to.
So it's a little bit of shell game,
hand waving to, as I said, have his cake and eat it too,
I think.
So this is an interesting observation.
I think you and me both could agree on.
And the person who already accepts the worldview
that there are ghosts or demons
or Jesus can rise from the dead, walk on water or whatnot.
When I do this comparative mythology thing,
and I show primary sources and antiquity before, during,
and after the time the gospels are being written,
and that gives that window of like 50 years,
because you could talk to one critical scholar,
this is Mark's written, let's say, 70.
And I'm saying critical scholars.
I know there are some more evangelical types
who want to push it into the 40s.
You know, some really, really odd numbers I would ask,
like in my view, I'm convinced by internal reasons
as well as to why it sounds like they're aware
of the temple's demise on the horizon.
Like, so of course they say that's
because you deny the miraculous claim
of the revelation of the text,
and that he really did see that it was gonna fall.
I tend to see as ex-event too, literary works.
But anyway, I don't wanna get caught up too much in that,
just to point out, I can go and find and document
everything under the sun.
Let's just say I did find everything under the sun
that there is, that we have of heroes,
mortals, gods performing miracles, exorcisms,
birth narratives with gods mating with their mom.
And in some cases, as Plutarch talks about Plato,
he didn't, the God did not sleep with his mother.
His mother, it was through the Numa,
Plutarch literally uses the same language as Luke,
the Numa and Denimus, the power and spirit
that impregnated Plato's mother
in order to have this divine demigod named Plato,
the philosopher, be born.
And this is in Plutarch.
So my point is, is I could do all that.
And I wanna talk about perception,
just to throw this at you,
because you and Shannon love the brain stuff,
and I do too, thanks to y'all.
You've really inspired that at me,
is to say, notice that all of that evidence to them
just makes them go, see how much more plausible
there's this like superstitious world of people.
You're just saying the superstition.
We say this is evidence leading
toward things are happening, don't you see?
And I'm finding that most of it is either superstitious
in the sense that look at modern people
who have experiences of Elvis or Tupac after their death,
the list can go on of things,
my loved one visited me, he's been dead for five years,
whatever, they might believe that literally happened.
I tend to think it's psychological, mental,
there's something else there.
And of course, we can get into that.
But the other aspect is, to me, genre.
So a lot of the stuff you can categorize
and why put a historical what actually happened?
This is a question I would pose.
Love to have you just freestyle and vent
and ramble wherever you want with this.
But why put this historical what actually happened
with Jesus in a similar bracket and category
that's framed up to look very much like the other figures
that we would, all classicists would say,
it is legendary embellishment
that never happened historically.
And we all agree, there is no apologist classicist
that I'm aware of on planet Earth
that says Suetonius in lives of the Caesars
actually had poor tents leading up
that actually caused the Senate to say
no child should be born this year.
Apollo birthed him through his mother.
She had a sign of a serpent on her hip in a tattoo form
so she never went to bathe in public again.
Eagle stole his bread and then realized who he was
and brought the bread back to him and said,
hey, I'm sorry, like drop the bread back for the kid.
And on and on and on.
We don't accept that.
Are there kernels of possible verisimilitude
and historical nuggets?
Probably.
There are real places, real things.
There are people who had this idea
that if lightning struck this or if the birds went that way
they believed things and omens.
So anyway, I threw a lot at you
and I'm gonna walk away for two hours
and I'm sure you have plenty to say.
That's all right.
No, I'm with you on all that.
I think, again, what I'm not well enough versed
on all the literature from the first and second century
to be able to say it's definitely this genre
or that genre.
But the goal of those four books
is absolutely to win converts far.
Like that is, they prioritize being evangelical
over historical reporting.
That much is clear.
And that is not what a straight up historian does.
Like a straight up historian,
well, maybe issuing some propaganda of one kind or other,
but isn't trying to get you specifically
to change your life.
And so I don't know.
I've yet to be super convinced
that there is our analogous,
perfectly analogous works of the time.
I don't know if you'd agree with that or not.
Yeah, I'd say there's no Xerox copy
of everything that is going on around.
There are, I would say tropes.
There seems to be themes.
There seems to be some setting
in the cultural, historical, and literary world
at the time in which influence is happening.
Whether it's in the air,
if it's being taught at school,
as you talked about earlier, things like that.
Is that what you're getting at?
Yeah, that is what I'm getting at.
Like even all the Greek literature and all the Greek gods,
like if you're learning to speak and write Greek,
you're definitely reading the Greek classics.
Like that's just what would have gone hand in hand.
So it's much like going to film school,
and maybe you're not directly influenced
by Star Wars and the Godfather,
but just saw Star Wars and the Godfather
if you went to film school, right?
So whether or not you're deliberately pulled it out
when you were doing your work and referenced it or not,
it was in your psyche.
So I definitely feel like there were tropes
and expectations that these gospel authors fulfilled.
I think you would agree.
Absolutely.
I just thought it was interesting
to bring up that observation that we see it and we go,
okay, if we grant the supernatural world,
getting over Gary's first chapter,
and go, okay, cool, cool, cool.
Let's just say something could be going on
and we're just ignorant and we just don't know.
We haven't seen it and we're not convinced.
And I've list all these other sources
that have been around for centuries.
There are stone inscriptions to give you an example
of actual accounts of supposed miracles done by a Sclepius
all throughout the Greek and Roman world,
literally all the way down into the time of Paul.
I have an expert scholar, Christopher Stanley,
who is like, he specializes on Paul.
And he talks about Paul's churches,
which would have been Gentile churches,
not saying they weren't Jews who associated,
but mainly Gentile churches.
When they got sick, where did they go to get healing?
Because this scholar says in Paul's letters,
he doesn't find healings.
He's not seeing like what we see in the book of Acts.
It's not like, here's a handkerchief, Bob.
Oh my God, my eyes are back.
Very fanciful sounding, the way that Acts portrays it.
And so he said they'd go to the Sclepius temple.
And I'm like, okay, that's interesting
because they're kind of the doctor of the day.
And that God, Sclepius, has so many accounts of miracles,
healings, et cetera.
For us, why can't Sclepius be the true son of God?
Or like, why isn't the Greek pantheon the one at this point?
We can build a case to show they have several claims
and beliefs of this in antiquity for millennia.
I mean, these myths and stories are floating around
and there are claims about these gods healing people.
Well, those are true then.
Well, no, they're not true.
And that's why I think I've been guilty of saying,
you guys are special pleading.
Yeah.
And they don't like that.
Cause they're like, no, we're not special pleading.
Each source matters.
We need to investigate and interrogate the sources,
et cetera, et cetera.
And it's just this hot soup of chaos.
And I think that's why Gary, well, I mean,
his story is that he started this minimal facts
because he went, his PhD was from a secular university
and I forgotten which one and his advisors were like,
you can go ahead and write your dissertation
on resurrection if you want,
but we don't accept the gospel, so good luck.
Ooh.
Do you think that's what influenced minimal?
He's absolutely, he's been on record
that that was what influenced like,
so he had to write his PhD dissertation on resurrection
without referencing the gospels.
And therefore he kind of came up with.
Should I read the minimal facts?
Yeah.
That'd be a thing that we should do.
I think it's fair.
You've brought it up.
So Gary, throughout the last 14 years,
when he gives different interviews and he admits this,
sometimes he has like 12 facts,
sometimes he has like two.
So he goes back and forth,
but for the book, the magnum opus,
he decided to go, what do you call six plus one?
So number one is Jesus died
due to the effects of Roman crucifixion.
Okay.
Number two, the disciples afterward reported experiences
that they thought were actually appearances
that there is in Jesus.
That's both true and also the one
I have the biggest problems with.
We can cycle back if we want.
Number three, these experiences accounted
for the disciples lives becoming thoroughly transformed
even to the point of being willing to die
for their belief.
Number four, the proclamation of Jesus' resurrection
and appearances took place very early,
soon after the experiences themselves.
Number five, James, the brother of Jesus
and a skeptic before his conversion,
most likely believed after he thought
he saw the risen Jesus.
And number six, just a few years later,
Saul of Tarsus also became a Christian believer
due to an experience that he concluded
was the appearance of risen Jesus to him.
And then the plus one, the private tomb
in which Jesus was probably buried
was discovered to be empty shortly after his death.
So he calls that a plus one because his criteria
for the facts are that he wanted to have it be 90%
accepted by scholars.
Not only that, because it's not a pure argument
from authority and that he can back it up with evidence
or so he says, that's what it's breaking up.
Empty tomb at best raises to about 75.
He thinks he has a ton of great evidence for it,
but these stubborn skeptics don't accept it
along with the people who have signed a statement of faith.
So that's why he couldn't quite include in the fact.
Go ahead.
Does he say the people he's saying are scholars
and are not like, does he distinguish between those
who are making statements of faith?
I'm not saying we should then just discard them,
but I think it's important to understand here
at this university, these scholars have statements of faith
which would then entail, in your view, and my I suspect,
some psychological reasons to have limitations
on how far you can venture or publish
if you found contrary evidence
to what your statement of faith is kind of postulating.
For you to even have employment,
you see what I'm trying to get?
That's why I brought it up, absolutely.
It's very tough to convince someone
to believe something that goes counter to their paycheck.
Like that's just a thing.
Right.
When I worked for Apple, it was definitely like,
yeah, I thought iPhones are the best, right?
It's like, just that's the way it goes.
I still do, but my life, my ability doesn't count on it.
That will be book three.
So book three is where he's supposed
to be publishing the raw data.
So in this one, I have my for the Bible tells me
so jingle that I often use.
I feel like the theme of this book is,
for Bart Arman tells me so.
So anytime he gets into a weird spot,
this is what I'm working on documenting now
is he kind of just appeals to,
well, if Bart Arman agrees with me on this,
I don't have to say anymore.
So-
Oh my God.
Did you hear my interview with Richard C. Miller
when we were talking about this?
And, you know, Richard appreciates Bart's scholarship,
of course, he respects him as a colleague, as an academic,
but he came up with a funny term in the midst of that.
He said, I call this argumentum at Bartum.
That is what's happening in this book.
I love it, argument about it because he feels like,
well, if I can cite Bart agreeing with me,
I don't gotta provide any other evidence
because of course he disagrees with me on the conclusion.
So if there's any given point,
and I feel like that's a real weakness in this book,
is it, if you are like,
those YouTubers like Inspiring Philosophy or Testify,
or whoever that are kind of like,
we don't buy anything Bart Arman says.
Right.
Or some things.
Right.
Or some things.
Because I know IP agrees with his view on revelation.
Oh, sure, absolutely.
Yeah.
But if you're the kind of person that says,
well, just because you're,
just because of enemy attestation,
that's not like buttoning it up.
Now, I happen to agree more,
I don't agree with Bart on everything for sure,
but more often than not I do,
but he's, I feel like Gary's just really relying
on argumentum at Bartum,
which I'm not quick to adopt is an awesome phrase.
I will credit you, Richard, when I do that.
Appreciate it.
And I look forward to hearing you do that
because I know that happens a lot.
That happens a lot.
Because he, let's be honest,
he's a maverick in the field and a brilliant man.
And he's brought a lot of ideas to the public eye
and his debates with evangelicals and other academic.
Well, mainly I would call them evangelical academics
because there's people like James White,
he's gone and debated other people.
But I figure it's the best time to let you shine
because you have dealt with minimal facts for a while
and you've actually come up
with your own particular hypotheses.
Did you want to present that or did you have any?
I wouldn't mind.
We can, if the audience is interested, we can do that.
I've now since dubbed my hypothesis,
the minimal witnesses hypothesis.
So it has a name now.
Minimal witnesses so that people can shorthand it.
Hopefully it will spread a little bit.
The notion being there's a huge challenge
both in this book and by J. Warner Wallace
and Frank Turrick, it just constantly comes up.
They will be academics, the scholars like Bart and others
and Dale Alice and whoever,
they refuse to put forth the naturalistic hypothesis.
They just say, we don't know what happened.
And they view that as a weakness
with these other scholars, right?
That they're not putting forth a positive claim
on their own side.
And so myself, much like you,
although I think you're more learned than I.
No, don't.
We're in this position where we have the,
we don't have to worry
about our intellectual scholarly career just yet.
So we can actually put forth positive points.
And hey, if someone pokes holes in my positive claim,
no sweat, you debunked a YouTuber,
I will readjust, life will go on.
But I got really tired of them trying to use this
to bludgeon saying, well, there is no naturalistic hypothesis.
So yes, I've put forth my own and we can,
I don't know if I can present through,
if you have to present.
Absolutely, let me pop that up here,
hit the like button everybody and here we are.
So it's in, it's 13 or so quick sentences.
So hopefully it'll go quick,
but like any, unfortunately it's not this hypothesis
where you can just say one sentence
and that's what it is.
You can't just say hallucinations.
So anyway, I'll try and go through it quick,
but it's a large case
because there's a lot of data to cover.
So the first thing, and we can discuss them if you like,
but the first assertion is that Jesus
was a historical figure who was a failed apocalyptic prophet.
You and me agree.
I mean, I can't prove without a doubt, you know,
let's just go with what we, our opinions on this and...
And to be fair, I have had both Bart Herman on my channel
and Dale C. Allison, both on my channel.
I've locked them through this
and they have both given me A's.
They don't agree across the board,
but they feel like the, you know,
these platitudinal sentences,
I can back up if I need to.
Let's do this.
Okay, just a pause for our audience's interaction.
Give it A, B, C, or D.
I guess... Oh, yeah.
Let's let the audience give us A, B, C, or D,
or F. Let's go with the F after a D.
F for fail, actually. As long as you fail.
And let's have you grade Paul here right now.
Let's do it.
So the first one, you think historical Jesus
failed apocalyptic prophet?
Yep. I feel like that. I know my mythicist
might give you an F here, but go ahead.
Fair enough.
But also, I just want to keep in mind,
this is in the purpose of...
I'm not saying this is what happened,
but I'm saying this is a coherent,
naturalistic hypothesis, right?
So that... Right.
You're not even saying this is exactly what happened.
Yeah, this doesn't have to be the one,
but I'm just saying a naturalistic hypothesis
can be put forth. So let's see.
Jesus said or did the wrong thing to the wrong people
and got himself crucified by Romans.
I feel like that is well-attested to.
And so I'm not trying to say why, but he was killed.
That weekend, Jesus' body was treated the same way
most crucifixion victims were treated,
and it was put into a tomb, or not a tomb,
it was disposed of in a way that was not remembered.
So that could have been left on there to rot
and eaten by dogs.
That could have meant trench-ditch graves,
which is actually what most happened.
The Romans sometimes would set them on fire.
And or if the Sanhedrin did it,
the Sanhedrin had two separate graveyards
where the criminals had to be buried.
And per Joni Magnus, those were unmarked, right?
So just to concede is that whatever happened
to Jesus' body the next day, no one remembered.
Jesus probably did have a number of followers,
possibly 12, possibly more,
but those all but two completely disappear
from reliable history.
There was no reliable history for any of those 12
past what happens in the first couple chapters of Acts
for anyone but Jon and Peter.
They just, we just don't, we've got no idea.
It's very plausible that Peter, who very much beloved Jesus,
had some kind of experience that he interpreted
as was in Jesus, a good candidate is post-breedment death,
that up to 14% of the public,
not people with mental illness,
not people who are known just people who are grieving,
14% of people grieving have at least one mode
of seeing that person again.
So it's not implausible to think that Peter and Peter alone
had touched an experience.
At some point, Peter's enthusiasm caught on by to Jon,
because we know that Jon was around when Paul was around
and James the brother of Jesus.
Now, Shannon and I have done whole streams
on James the brother of Jesus.
That's a whole weird thing,
but social contagion of some sort,
and or maybe he was a greedy guy,
and or maybe he just wanted to be a new good as mom.
There's lots of good psychological reasons
why James might have wanted to jump on board,
but they're on board.
Stories about Jesus started to spread.
And every time they were told,
they were told slightly differently.
And they were told in such a way to be evangelical in nature.
So the stories that were most repeated
were the stories that won converts.
And when there was a resistance,
they invented polemics included that next time,
and it won more converts.
It's like evolution, these stories evolved.
Some years later, Paul of Tarsus had some kind of experience
that he felt was the risen Jesus as well.
So there's two people who felt like they had an experience.
Paul, if you need to know why,
Paul was clearly seeing visions all his life and weird stuff,
but a good explanation may well be
if he was getting Christians killed,
it's well-documented post-traumatic stress
will often create hallucinations like this,
will also people will do 180s,
complete 180s on different causes
based on post-traumatic stress.
So that's a candidate, I'm not saying that's what it was,
but something happened to Paul.
Paul eventually met Peter and John,
so we know that they talked sometime later,
and I talked about this earlier, so I won't repeat it,
but the people who never met Jesus,
who spoke in a language they didn't speak,
who were literate, created Gospels.
I think they had the four,
we already talked about it, the four different inspirations.
After this, some Christians were persecuted,
but not for what they believed,
the Christian arrests were for disrupting the peace generally.
Almost always they were for being a menace in some way,
almost never because of what they believed
until centuries later, until like 380, so.
But Yadda Yadda, some centuries later,
Constantine has his own vision, becomes a Christian,
Christianity's eventually legalized,
and from there, we kind of know the story
of how the church exists.
So, all we need, literally all we need for hallucinations
is two people to have had an experience,
Peter and Paul, the group experiences,
we have not, those aren't part of the minimal facts.
All we need, these two guys, minimal witnesses,
Peter, Paul, and we have Christianity today.
So, that's the very short version,
probably not as short as you would like,
but that's, so grade me, I guess is that,
and my challenge is constantly to apologize,
what data am I not accounting for,
with this series of events?
So, minimal witnesses, I'm not saying it is what happened,
but I feel like it does cover all the data.
I think you're muted, maybe?
Yes, give us your final grade, everybody,
on the overall thing.
Something that, I like what you said,
that came to mind was the idea of persecution, of course,
a lot of these were not certain about a bunch of stuff,
but I do wonder if there is some form of resistance
in terms of worshiping or the Roman imperial cult
with the Christians not wanting to worship a man
in maybe the early second century,
or at least it seems that that could be an influence.
The book of Revelation seems to hint at stuff like this.
So, I'm wondering if that plays a role,
that has no bearing on the overall, you know, natural push,
but when you were talking to the Christians.
But on that, you know, I kind of rely on books
like Candida's book and or Bart's book.
And even, I'm going through Dominion with Tom Holland,
for example, and like some of those,
and it sure seems like the cases we can say are solid cases.
We're not, you know, like recant your theology type things.
They were, they're like, oh, the ones we know of,
you came into the temple, you came into the town,
and you were screaming, and you were shouting,
or you were, you know, staging a protest.
Like it seemed the, the rel documented cases.
I don't, I don't dispute that probably Christians had to,
that kept their mouth shut a little bit,
because they probably, their neighbors are all praying
to the weather gods and they aren't.
So you don't want to be the one guy on your street
that's not praying to the weather god.
But, but I don't think we don't have a,
we don't have solid records that that caused people.
And again, none of that, none of that matters,
because I don't think,
so I shouldn't say none of that matters,
that absolutely matters.
All persecution is terrible, and it sucks that it happened.
I usually go into that a little bit more,
that like it's awful that it happened,
but it's not on the scale that is sometimes promoted.
Yeah, I agree with you.
The way you worded it was good though, breaking the peace.
So I guess the only thing I would say is,
was it centuries later, Christians are already viewing
themselves in the literature as if they're being persecuted,
and you have martyrs and such that are writing and stuff.
So some stuff is going on,
but is it their antisocial stance
among the known world that causes them to be viewed?
It's like if I walk into a room
where I know they have a particular law,
a particular standard,
but I go contrary to that law,
that standard purposefully is part of my ideology.
I'm gonna stick out like a sore thumb.
And so anyway, it was just an offshoot,
Yeah, no, I get it.
I guess all I would add there is that
if the rest of my hypothesis is correct,
that persecution could have started
and been completely ubiquitous,
even right away,
because really there were only two witnesses.
So it's not like anyone recanting under those
or being, they weren't in a position to know,
like the apologists sometimes want to say,
well, they were all in a position to know,
and they were all getting persecuted.
And it's like, well, that's not what the evidence shows.
Like even Sean McDowell has recently even downgraded
from downgraded four ones to three,
because well, he, I love to hear him say it,
acts maybe isn't good enough to hang our hat on,
you know, for James Son of Zebedee,
you know, his martyrdom.
So-
That's awesome.
The one comment I think I heard you interviewing Bart
because for those who don't know,
me and Paul, we're doing all sorts of scholarly interviews
and stuff, and you put this hypothesis even quicker,
of course, in front of Bart.
Yeah.
Bart Gray, did you, what did he give you again?
He gave me an A minus because,
and someone left the super chat in here.
We're going to get into those soon.
Anyway, but Bart, a couple of, he disagrees with me.
He thinks Mary Magdalene was involved.
That's what I was going to actually bring up
that I thought was interesting about
Delcey Allison Jr's book on resurrection.
He hangs his hat on this early tradition,
he thinks that Magdalene, Mary Magdalene,
had a much more prominent role in the church
and that she might be an early witness
because some of the gospels seemed to hint at this.
And so Bart seems to echo what Allison's hinting at,
but for me, the get around this,
when you go to 1 Corinthians 15,
this supposed earlier source that is reflecting,
there's no women mentioned at all.
And of course, Allison's kind of jab was,
well, Paul and the early church were very male centric,
but if they were so male centric,
then why did they even have to have her
as a witness in the gospels to begin with?
My point is, is the same attack to 1 Corinthians 15
could be used on the gospels
and say, yeah, well, they're all male centric.
Therefore, why is she a witness here,
but it doesn't make the account earlier in 1 Corinthians 15?
Didn't cut it for me.
I also feel like Occam's razor just doesn't need her
to be a witness.
Like again, I feel like all the data that's actual,
like I've asked Bart this, like, well,
what data is unexplained if I leave, you know,
Mary Magdalene off?
It's like, I don't know, I just feel like she was.
And it's like, well, okay, that's not, you know,
by Occam's razor, we're multiplying entities at that point,
like we're multiplying witnesses.
So, and again, I've studied these burial accounts in depth
because I've been in this big chapter on burial.
And man, it just, it's so weird the way
the women would get there and why would they be going?
But if indeed John is correct,
and they had a ludicrous like 75 pounds
worth of spices in John, you know,
and they were watching from afar,
why are they bringing spices the next day?
What did they correct find?
And if I'm right that they wasn't in a place,
if it wasn't buried in a place where they could remember,
then how is this even gonna happen?
So that's kind of why I leave Mary out.
I don't see the explanatory power of having her there.
So I could be wrong, but yeah.
I know that one of my friends,
Dr. James Tabor takes a position
that he takes the burial as historical
and he thinks that they, after the Sabbath was up,
the Friday night to Saturday night,
they moved the body to a new,
without saying anything to the rest of anybody
and the bodies moved.
Now, apologists try to come back and go,
wouldn't they have just pointed over to where they put him?
I mean, by the time they would have probably even gone
to some of the authorities and the,
if you say the Jewish community or the ones reburying it,
as the gospel seemed to hint
that the Jews themselves were part of this in some way,
then do you think that these people
who are probably not fans of the followers of Jesus
are actually going to go and talk to them?
But I think James, and I don't wanna put words,
I could be wrong here, so forgive me if I'm mistaken.
But I think he jumps to another early non-canonical text
that actually hints that the disciples,
these early followers of Jesus actually hid
for a week in fear of their lives and did not come around.
So there's no reason to establish,
that they're right there the next day just showing up
and everybody's like, where did he go?
And all that, they're all hiding for fear of their life
because their guy just got slaughtered.
So are they really gonna show up
when Rome would have probably squashed
any type of potential threat
and followers of that potential threat,
if they were around instigating anything
that could potentially lead to a revolt
or this kind of stuff.
So if we hypothesize historicity in that kind of angle,
it's interesting to take that angle
and then there's the other side, legendary unity.
There is, but now I wanna have a chat with James
on the air just about this,
because it doesn't make sense
why if the Sanhedrin was involved
in order to get the bodies down by,
I don't even care when, I don't care when.
Who did it?
And if it was the Sanhedrin who did it,
including Joseph Bermuthia, right?
The rules are, you gotta go in the criminal's graveyard.
So there were no stone cut tombs
in the criminal's graveyard.
But let's just make the exception based on the gospel.
I'm pushing back for fun.
Yeah, no, but that's fine.
But I guess if Joseph, if you went ahead and put,
if you were scrambling at nighttime,
to get it down before sundown or whatever,
that's reasonably okay,
but the place where it's gonna end up.
Right, right.
Is definitely the criminal's graveyard.
I guess that would play into what James is saying.
It's still in work.
Oh, because James is saying he's agreeing with me
that the final destination is unremembered.
Yeah, the disciples don't know where it was put.
And therefore the legend could easily develop,
especially when you take in Richard C. Miller's wonderful work,
Resurrection and Reception, which I've mentioned.
And by the way, he's referenced by so many academics
in the field, of course, Dennis McDonald,
Robin Faith Walsh talks about this as he's the guy
who mainly really started putting this idea out there
more and more about it is a well-established trope
in Greek and Roman sources
that when the body goes missing, that person became a God.
And you see this with Alexander the Great
trying to purposefully drown in a river to escape, right?
Where he's a God now.
And then there's stories that his father Zeus, et cetera.
But this happened over and over.
And I hypothesize back and forth in my head
because none of this is concrete and we have to,
based on what we're reading
and how we would look at this in historical examples.
And I'm thinking to myself, okay,
even the idea that the disciples stole the body is plausible.
I'm not saying that's the likelihood.
It's plausible.
And I had Christians get kind of upset at me
who said, well, why would you say that?
Like they thought I said that Matthew's gospel said
the disciples stole the body.
Matthew doesn't believe that,
whoever this author we call Matthew is.
He's saying that there was a rumor even to his day
of Jews saying the disciples stole the body.
Now, if you know anything about that missing body,
they became a God motif.
And you know, you're employed making good money
going door to door or whatever.
You have a cult following and you believe it.
You're already, you're so absorbed
and sunk cost fallacy the whole nine.
What's stopping you from postulating that they did?
But Derek, why would they go to die?
You're reading it in the motives
that maybe their motives are, hey, I have to stand my ground.
How many people died for things they were wrong about
or purposefully did?
I mean, there's so many other questions that can come up.
That goes back to my mental witness thing though,
how many, this is my big problem with Gary's book.
He plays fast and loose with the word disciples
because what he has scholarly assertion for
is that some disciples saw this.
But when he states it as minimal facts,
he just says disciples.
So you're immediately thinking, well,
scholars must think all 12 did this.
No, what Gary will affirm,
you have Peter and Paul.
Well, Paul wasn't there, right?
Paul was after.
So the death that we care about is Peter's.
And James the brother of Jesus,
but again, not one of the initial 12, right?
So even on what you were saying,
like, well, if the disciples stole it, okay, great,
but only Peter died for it.
And we don't know, we have no idea
if he was given a chance to recant, right?
Like that wasn't, we don't know
if he could have saved his life by saying no.
So we got, I know I'm saying,
I'm affirming what you're saying.
And they kind of dovetails with me is like,
this whole claim that they all died,
that's got to go by the wayside as well, right?
Because it's just not attested.
The only critical, if I'm using a scalpel on my own guess
that suppose they stole the bodies
and then someone goes, yeah,
but you're saying that people had visions.
They themselves stole the body
and then have visions he's resurrected from the dead.
In their mind, they'd say resurrection is physical body.
So how did they go and knowingly steal the body?
Maybe it's just a couple of them.
Maybe it's not all of them.
Maybe there's a few amongst the group.
I'm making up little tiny things along the way,
but let's just suppose all 12 stole the body.
And then they still come along
and someone has visions saying he's resurrected.
What we mean by resurrection,
what does Paul mean in 1 Corinthians by resurrection
is the question that I've had brilliant minds
come on and say, yes, it's physical.
They believe in a physical body,
but it's also pneumatic, which is a philosophical concept.
I've had Steve Mason on.
I've had Dr. James Tabor on,
like all these doctor, you know, expert PhDs.
And they're reading Paul to say
what went into the ground did not come out.
So, you know, they're interpreting this transformation
as a pneumatic one.
When the seed goes in the ground,
like it cast off the shell
and something completely different comes out
and it's not physical, it's spiritual.
It's like, it's not what we think of as flesh
in the physical sense.
And so I don't know how to navigate this
because they would say
that Paul has a different understanding
than probably what's being seen in Matthew and Luke
when it starts to become more physical.
Look, touch me, Phil, I'm eating fish.
You know, they're really nailing down that,
feel this guy, he's, hey, Gnostics,
hey, Gnostics, who don't think he has a physical body,
he has a physical body.
And so what's going on here, man,
in all of this literature?
Well, I think even with all what you're saying there
is you've got scholars,
you've got brilliant minds on all sides
to quote someone who shouldn't be quoted.
But yeah, there's good people on all sides,
but shouldn't it be more clear
if, if indeed, like if you want me to,
who has, already has to get over my materialistic bent,
wouldn't it be more clear?
If that's, if you, if you expect me to come along
on your ride, like that's,
for me, that's just kind of the nail in the coffin
is it's not clear.
So as, as you with the, you know,
we've seen with the Satan's guys, I think like,
a lot of times these, the apologists are just like,
if they can find one plausible,
and maybe that's what I'm doing.
If they can find one plausible explanation,
well, then they've got their out.
Right.
So anyway, sorry.
I think you said it well.
It's not just that, you know, it's not clear,
but it's also in my estimation problematic.
There's so many voices that we can show don't agree
that I think are clear, not just like,
did Paul mean this and does that contradict
these ideas in Luke and John?
Cause I've had some scholars who think there's continuity.
Some say there's discontinuity,
meaning the body was actually physical, even in Paul,
that the body physically resurrected according to Paul.
And that's what resurrection means.
Some of these scholars say not necessarily,
Paul's framing it within a Jewish context,
but he's also well established in Greek and Roman motifs.
So he's marrying the two and finding a way
in which he's writing this to the Corinthians
who would have understood this in a Gentile mind,
not in a Jewish one in that way.
So this man, it is not clear enough,
but it's also problematic.
And that it bears out in the book.
Unfortunately, Gary, he's putting forth these,
what I would say is these superficial cases for his thing.
And basically, you're telling me there's a chance,
almost like it's, he's just,
I feel like the book is largely affirming
what they want to believe as opposed to,
really overwhelming me so that I,
I'm just forced now to believe in a resurrection,
whether I want to or not.
One last thing I have, and if you want,
feel free, is that we're talking to Richard Miller
before we went live and he wasn't able to join us.
But I was like, hey man, come hang out with us.
And he said, well, one of the things they would do
when he was going to college,
because he went to the same college as William Lane Craig,
or it was William Lane Craig's university or something.
And he said, they purposely will write massive tomes
to kind of give off the impression,
look at how much evidence
and how sophisticated and complex and dense,
this is true, et cetera, et cetera.
You know what I mean?
Did you want to comment on that?
Do you feel that's-
No, so I would say it's the opposite of dense.
This is the ultimate fluffing up of
what could have been a 300-page book
is now suddenly 1,000 pages
so that you can be a little bit more referential,
like just so you can be a little more comprehensive
when you're not, no new points were made,
but it was just more comprehensive.
And again, there's several hundred pages
for whatever reason on gospel defenses,
which aren't part of the main core of the book,
and the whole chapter on NDE.
So it's suddenly like,
this isn't 1,000 pages on the resurrection.
This is, you know, four or 500 pages on the resurrection.
And again, there's so much repetition
that we've talked about.
I need to, when I do my full review,
I'll try and give some specific examples
on this repetition.
But again, it's not bad,
but it's just if you read it cover to cover,
you realize, oh, this is, there's not as much here.
There's a facade going on, yeah.
Was Richard the one who prompted William Lane Craig
responding to us?
Was that how that all kicked off?
That's right.
Yes.
And by the way, we've got 814 people watching here.
I'm in vision, hit the like button right now.
And also subscribe to Polygy as a live channel,
as well as who everybody knows about Polygy.
But the live channel, you're hanging out,
you're taking questions,
you're tackling apologetic stuff.
I just wanted to say that you and I need to put something
together in response back to William Lane Craig,
because from what I understand,
he responds to me in two episodes?
Yeah, he does, he dedicated.
So for those who don't know,
you interviewed Richard Seamiller about the state of,
whether apologists are respected by scholars,
or that, I don't know if that was the topic,
but that it came up.
And that caught William Lane Craig's eye,
so William Lane Craig responded to you.
And because I'm the only,
seemed like the only person on the planet
who actually listens to him,
Lane Craig's podcast.
I said, hey Derek, come on on.
So Derek has been on my channel,
we responded to that.
And now William Lane Craig has dedicated two,
not just one, but two full episodes,
because Derek really got under his skin.
And I don't even think you've watched it yet.
I haven't even heard him.
But I need to.
But anyway, so if you are interested in Derek and I doing,
I guess round four or five,
or whatever that would be in response section,
let us know.
Yeah, please let Paul know because he's,
I don't want to be the beggar here with shaking the cup.
Let me join you.
No, my stipulation is you at least have to watch
this thing first.
I do need to and see if this is something
I need to respond or want to.
I'm pretty likely, at least I'll have something
to present or give back.
We might have a lot, I agree with him on it,
but I imagine there won't be in some cases.
So it might be worth covering some of that.
Now I did stumble upon a stream that you and Kip
and Dr. Kip Davies and Dr. Josh Bowen did.
You guys murdered apologetics.
You canceled apologetics altogether.
It was like a couple of years ago.
And I was like, man, it's still alive.
Derek, you blew it.
I know.
I know.
Which one was that?
It was just, of course, I can tell I legitimately
watch MythVision all the time,
because that is what YouTube suggests to me.
So it was a couple of year old stream
that you did with Kip and Josh.
I think it was literally,
it's called the death of apologetics or something.
Oh, yeah, and Josh and Kip have like the guns
on the thumbnail or something.
Yeah.
Yeah, I definitely need to go back
and check that one out again.
And I think we were dealing with how problematic
some of the stuff is in that ancient world.
And we even had evangelical friend,
I think he's evangelical,
but he's not a fundamentalist
who stopped playing games trying to defend it
and was like, it was bad.
He tends to think God's progressively trying
to better the world,
almost like a post-millennialist-ish idea,
or a progressive betterment of the world
in that he thinks that's what God's doing.
But he admits the Bible has some archaic, terrible crap
and horrible situation for women and slaves.
And it's just, yeah, we went into all that.
Okay, we got some supers.
And I think we had a blast.
There's so much we could talk about, Paul.
You me love this stuff.
Thank you for letting me vent for a while,
though that was fun.
That was good, and we'll answer questions.
If anyone else wants me to vent,
you can ask a specific question.
I have many more topics to vent,
because it's 1,000 pages, but let's get to it.
Well, we'll get the supers.
I just want to say house therapy going so far
with 816 people on our side watching you.
The therapy, you know, I've been taking my dog
for long walks and we've been, you know, touching grass,
as it were, except we're in Nova Scotia,
so it's several feet of snow.
But yeah, I know it's, I read,
I don't recommend that you read this in two weeks.
It's a little bit much, little bit much of that,
but the more are coming.
Anyway, I read it, so you don't have to,
and there will be a formal review on my channel
at some point, so.
Just in case people missed that,
the Lamb of the World, Paul, died for our sins
by reading 1,000 pages of this book.
Ben, I'm not gonna butcher the name.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
I wish IP and other apologists
would actually take the time
and read the books of those they refute.
They can start by reading Dennis MacDonald's work.
Is this on my channel?
I think this is on mine.
It looks like yours.
Okay, yep, I can tell, I can see,
okay, there's a little chain mark when it's yours,
and then it's, cool.
For those who don't know, we decided at the very last second,
well, this whole thing is last second,
but I'm like, hey, let's do it on both channels
at the same time.
And so you and I are pioneering new technology
that lets us do that,
but forgive us if we're not 100% up on which,
who's from which channel, forgive us.
Yeah, forgive us in advance.
I don't know if they've read Dennis MacDonald's work.
He gave me a call earlier when I was on my way to the gym
about his new Q book coming out,
and then he's got another book, Synoptic Epistles,
that's, he creates an interesting hypothetical discussion
between the gospel authors,
and they're oftentimes arguing with each other,
not in a positive way,
because of what one did with their gospel.
And why did you do that?
And so he gives this hypothetical discussion
where Dennis MacDonald's actually interpreting the gospel
to the other gospel authors,
to why they did what they did with their text.
It's a really, it's a genius book.
I can't wait to show that,
but the Q book is actually out today.
It's live on Amazon, so people can get that.
And he's trying to defend the idea of Q,
because so many people are getting away from it,
especially in the online world,
they're just like, if we don't have it,
just stop, don't even try to hypothesize
that we had some type of reconstruction of Q, et cetera,
et cetera.
So anyway.
I'm gonna test just me personally,
my personal journey with Dennis MacDonald.
I didn't buy anything that I heard,
I heard about his theories,
and no one ever said it to me in a way that was convincing.
Right.
And then I actually read it.
So like Dennis is one, I think that
the second hand versions of it don't do him justice.
Like I actually had to get the book again
on the shelf over there.
And it was like, all of a sudden, this is obvious.
So I'm 100% agree.
If an apologist hasn't actually read him
and has only heard it second hand, they're missing.
Yeah, and even if they disagree, cool.
I think there's good reason to think something's going on.
I think he's wrong in several examples
he might bring up, or at least I'm not gonna say he's wrong,
but I'm not persuaded that that's what's going on
in some of them, but some of them, man,
they just, they tend to really push me over the edge
and it looks plausible, looks very likely.
Thank you so much, Ben.
Gnostic informant in the house,
so much for minimal facts.
Paul, did you ever see the speech that Habermas gave
to some church about there being no sources
mentioning Alexander the Great for 400 years?
It's unbearable, it is unbearable to watch.
Yeah, they often accuse they, meaning apologists in general,
often accuse some of our scholar friends
of being not as rigorous when they're talking
as when they're doing their academic writing.
Apologists do the same thing,
because I know Gary knows that there's sources mentioning
Alexander the Great, and in the book, for example,
he very much qualifies that while I'm talking about,
specifically about literary biographies,
not like inscriptions and coin,
like he throws all these caveats out that dismiss
all the obvious things, so again,
but also I'm not as all buttoned up live,
like today I probably said a few things
that were slightly not the way I would have worked
if I was scripted, so I don't begrudge them that.
Someone like Gary who's been doing this for 60 years though,
yeah, that's bordering on irresponsible, but.
Yeah, thank you so much, Neil,
because I know Neil definitely is looking for stuff like that.
Alex, thank you so much for the super chat,
I appreciate that.
Mr. Warlight, question,
acts is often used for dating Paul's letters,
so what do you make of verse 21-20?
Paul is mistaken for a man in a revolt
that occurred some time ago,
said revolt occurred 60 AD,
and some time ago could be post-war.
That's how you get acts 21-20.
I did memorize acts at one point, but I don't remember.
Tell everybody that while we're getting this,
that's another story I think.
Well, so when I was a teenager,
I was involved in international Bible quizzing,
so literally each year we would memorize
one or more books of the Bible and compete on them.
I wasn't amazing, I wasn't all-star level
for most of those years,
but I did, so I memorized acts, I memorized John,
I memorized the first second Peter,
Galatians, Ephesians, Whippings, Colossians,
so, but Matthew was my year.
Matthew was the year I earned a bunch of money
for Bible school scholarships by memorizing it, so anyway.
Blah, blah, blah.
You're infallible, man.
Just keep it real.
Also, weirdly, I memorized it in an NIV 84,
which is like a translation no one uses anymore,
so when I quote things, everyone's like squinting at me,
it's like, that's not quite right.
I don't see what's going on in this passage.
21-20, so when I heard this, they praised,
they said, you see, brother,
how many thousands of Jews believed
in all the results for the law?
Is that what you're seeing, 21-20?
Yeah, that's what I'm seeing,
and I'll share the screen if we need to, but I don't.
I don't see.
So I'm also not convinced that acts
is used for dating Paul's letters.
Do you find that to be true?
I have a video coming out on Pauline authorship,
and I feel like those letters are all,
if you wanna accept the story,
he died in like 63, 64,
so all the letters have to be dated,
like they just squish the dating of all those letters
to before 63, just because that's when he died.
Like it seems like that's the major justification
for most people.
Do you see something different in your travels?
Yeah, I don't know anything about acts
being used to date Paul's letters,
but then again, I've never had to ask that question
when I was speaking to experts on acts.
I will say, Mr. Warlite, I'm gonna look this up
because you have me curious.
So sadly, I don't have any more insight, but.
Yeah, sorry, I really wish I did.
I just, yeah, I'm seeing Cedrovol, okay, so.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you so much.
Gray's 174, how can Jesus be buried in a tomb
when he doesn't even have a physical body?
Are you, is Gray a myth system?
I would imagine.
So I'm what I'm called a methodological historicist.
Like so for the sake of my discussions with Christians,
I just adopt historicity.
I personally think there's adequate reason.
It solves more problems than not
that there's a kernel of historical truth
that doesn't bother me.
But also just when you're talking to a Christian,
if you go with this full myth is just on them,
they kind of stop listening
and then I can't have good conversations.
So it's more of a pragmatic.
I'm not saying like people definitely
can have good reasons to think that way,
but it's not my endeavor.
Thank you, thank you.
Yeah, Gray's, that's a docetic position, I guess you'd say.
Hmm, all right.
This is from your channel, Michael Garner.
Stupor sticker, all right.
Thank you for the sticker, Michael.
Thank you, thank you.
You got a new member, it looks.
Oh, no, a member for nine months.
Oh, so when you're a member, you get a free super chat.
So that's where I think that's where I came from.
Erwin thinks that Mary Magdalene plays a part.
Oh, we talked about this.
Let me know, Bernard, if we didn't cover this well enough,
but I think we kind of got that covered.
I thought we did as well.
And you're not saying she doesn't play some role
in the early church.
Oh, for sure.
And the initial, she's not necessary.
You know, she's just an added element.
There's no new explanatory power that we get
by adding her as one of the witnesses, I find.
And but I'm open to someone suggesting to me
what new thing it would explain.
Thank you so much.
Goodwill thinking, how do you like them apples?
I appreciate that.
Super sticker, appreciate it.
Caleb Jackson, even as a Christian,
I would say history alone isn't enough
to prove the resurrection.
Other contemporary evidence of miracles is needed.
And I would say that is a conceit that Gary makes
in his book is that like, unless he can start you
with supernatural, that he can't overwhelm you
with history.
The other weird thing conceit he makes is that you can't,
from a pure, if you only rely on history,
he can't get you to resurrection either.
He actually needs you to bring in philosophy
and some natural science and some of that kind of stuff
because from a purely historical basis,
he admits he can't get you there, which is refreshing.
I mean, let's be very fair here.
How often have you and I in the Christian movement,
whatever brand, freewill or predestinarian,
it doesn't matter, I'm just throwing out
the two different opposing models of soteriology,
that there are still needs for them to see it
and to believe it.
There needs to be the quickening of the spirit.
There needs to be at least you being brought to life
by God's spirit in some sense.
So it's not just to me contemporary evidence.
I'd go a little step further in agreeing with that,
but that evidence, I would ask that it happened to you,
that you're not, or at least someone that's right there
where you're involved in it and you see it.
It's hard for me just trusting accounts
on something that is that, you know,
I guess you'd say unbelievable or very difficult to say
that actually happened when we don't see this happen
on the regular, because how do we live our day?
Like if you told me, man, yeah, I won the lottery last week
and I go, oh really, would you win like a thousand?
No, no, no, I mean like the $2.2 billion lottery
I won last week, I got some questions.
I need to see that scratch off.
I need to see you on the news.
I need to see, you know, I need more.
Yeah, I need you to log into your bank account
and show me the numbers, the deposit, right?
Yeah, I'm with you.
Yeah, good enough.
Yeah, sorry.
Mark, thank you so much for that super chat on Paul's.
Ooh, apology is live, apology is pre-recorded
and apology is animated, the new Holy Trinity.
That explains the Trinity just as well
as any other Trinity explanation that I've heard.
The analogies aren't good.
It's at least as good as the water one, right?
You have three channels?
No, I don't, but actually, well, I do technically,
I started a third channel this week,
but we can talk about that also.
I started a Spanish channel this week.
Awesome, Jay-Z, love your channels.
Hope to see Dr. Jennifer Bird on your channel eventually, Paul.
For sure, I see that Jennifer posted today
that she's coming on MythVision.
Tomorrow, we're going live to talk about her life.
Jennifer got on my radar, she's delightful.
First of all, just as a person from what I've seen
on interviews and then she's smart, like crazy.
So she only got on my radar like a month or two ago,
but yeah, definitely would love to have her for sure.
Thank you, Jay-Z.
Mark Bilby in the house.
Thank you so much for the super chat, my friend.
Habermas claims all scholars accept all of Galatians
and First Corinthians as authentic.
Wrong.
First Corinthians, resurrection ascension,
wasn't in Martian's Apostolos.
The Galatians one through two revelation likely was.
Habermas should debate Vincent on this.
So Vincent's a scholar who would,
they, I don't know what they would have in common.
Right.
That's how different the scholarship is.
This is the problem, right?
Not that that's a problem for Vincent.
It's like brilliant minds who are far smarter
than you and me combined on this stuff.
They know the languages.
They're methodical and meticulous.
They're like coming up with so many different
possible outcomes to this and they're trying their best.
And they disagree with the neighbor in their own office,
expert who also specializes in either the same field
or a field similar and related and they disagree.
And it's like, what the heck, everybody?
How do we get to the actual answer?
And then I had a scholar comment
on one of my videos this week saying,
you know that not everyone agrees
when Martian was written, right?
Like, no, is that not a thing that we don't think about?
Oh, now it might be a couple hundred years later.
Shoot, like that.
Oh, man.
Well, there's some who probably do that.
And then there's some who think he might be earlier.
And then some who think that the canonical literature
is later than what the typical,
and this is like, not, I wouldn't say this is the majority.
This is just, there's some who think
that the canonical material, like I think Vincent would say,
is later in second century and it's reacting
to Martian's gospel.
So you're gonna find elements in these gospels
that seem to be reacting to the theology of Martian.
And so there are academics
trying to reconstruct Martian's gospel
and there are various forms of that reconstruction
because the experts are trying to reconstruct something
we don't have, but we have various quotes.
And man, and you know, it's interesting,
you can go to Bart,
who takes the traditional approach that Martian, you know,
is after what we see in some of the canonical material.
But even Bart goes, well,
over the few centuries after the first century, right?
They're reacting and responding
and scribes are adding into this canonical material,
reactions and responses to Martian.
So the canonical material people are reading today
as what is being taught is actually,
do you see what's going on here, man?
Like how do we know we need the Holy Ghost?
At some point when I'm making my videos,
again, this kind of goes to my,
I kind of, I love all this stuff
and Derek every seems like every couple of days
is exposing me to some new thing that I didn't know.
But I kind of, I kind of, I keep all that in my heart
and I ponder it in my heart, Derek,
instead of, you know, pragmatically,
because I really want to have good conversations
with Christians, a lot of this,
it's a little bit of a bridge too far to open with.
So I try to accept what I can and go with that.
I don't blame you, just pray on it, okay?
I'm pondering at my heart.
Trey Bob 31, what is your view on the book
called Acts of Pilate?
Is it from early Rome?
Thanks for the super chat.
So Acts of Pilate, I don't know much about it.
I'm sorry?
I said, I don't know much about it.
I know Dennis McDonald has talked about this
on an interview with me before.
And I can't say that I've heard anyone talk specifically
about what, where it was written.
So I don't know that we could say for sure
that it was, you know, Rome versus Athens
versus who knows where.
The little bit I know about it
is that it's very anti-Jewish.
That makes sense, I mean, clearly.
And so that it's basically this notion of absolving Pilate.
And it wouldn't surprise,
I guess it would make sense to be written in Rome
because it is largely,
it seems like a book specifically written
to absolve Rome any culpability in the death of Jesus.
Like that seems to be.
And if I remember correctly,
that's the one where Jesus does appear to Pilate.
If I remember correctly.
I have not read it myself.
I haven't either.
So I'm going secondhand.
But early Rome would make, let me put it this way.
I don't know about early.
I don't think it probably was pretty late,
but Rome, I guess, makes sense.
I'm looking at it here over 500 years.
It's like third or fourth century, isn't it?
Something like that.
It's later.
It says it could be as early as 160 AD.
It's Gospel of Nicodemus is another way to call it.
Or at least it's in the vein of the Gospels of Nicodemus.
I believe.
And then that so.
Well, Surya Trevob that we don't have
any first hand insight for you.
Yeah, I mean, I'm not an expert on that at all.
And I'm not an expert on any of this,
but I have better knowledge of other things.
Mr. Warlight Against is Acts 21-28, mistyped the verse.
That'll do it.
Okay, 28.
So now we're talking shouting fellow Israelites, help us.
This is the man who teaches everyone everywhere
against our people and our law and this place.
And besides, he has brought Greeks into the temple
and defiled this holy place.
I think he's telling about Paul.
Yeah, Paul's arrest.
We need a comment on that.
What are your thoughts about that verse?
So if I remember the super chat correctly,
he was thinking that because this must have happened
very late.
He, let me pull that one back up just because
I don't wanna butcher that.
Just remember where we're at.
Okay, he says, Acts is often used for dating Paul's letters.
So what do you make of verse 21-28?
Now that we know, Paul is mistaken for a man in a revolt
that occurred some time ago.
Said revolt occurred in 68.
Right, okay, so let me, now Acts 21 is well into,
like Paul's had at least,
is he on his third missionary journey by this point?
I think he's at least on his second missionary journey
at this point.
So Paul's been a Christian for,
I think long enough for them to say some time ago,
and mean Paul.
Acts takes place over multiple years.
Where's the some time ago?
I don't see it.
I'm looking at the text.
21-28.
Shouting fellow Israelites help,
this is an IV of course,
but this is the man who teaches everyone everywhere
against our people and our law and this place.
And besides, he has brought Greeks into the temple
and to file this holy place.
They had previously seen, if you look at 29,
they'd previously seen Traphimius,
the Ephesian in the city with Paul
and assumed that Paul had brought them.
So yeah, I guess that's background,
but it doesn't mean.
Right.
Hmm.
Mr. Warlite, just, I don't know which chat you're in,
but you don't have to super chat again,
but let us, if you can clarify where the,
some time ago is coming from.
I'm trying to keep an eye on that.
I'll say one comment that I see
and this is based on an Acts scholar I've interviewed.
The Acts tends to portray Jews over and over as antagonist
in a very, what I would say, Mike Winger,
propagandistic manner.
And what ends up happening is,
notice this in Mike Winger,
because he had the video was like propaganda, propaganda.
But seriously, it is to get Christians
to be viewed as innocent,
even though they're being charged
and they're guilty of everything over and over and over,
they're being charged and accused and all that.
They're being seen innocent for the theopolis,
whoever this person is,
that's this gospel's being written for
and Acts seems to be also being written for,
is, hey, look, man, we're innocent.
We're not guilty.
And over and over and over,
the scholars have talked to say,
the Jews are the ones who constantly accuse.
And I also hear that this kind of Gentiles
don't need to follow the law.
They don't need to practice Torah,
these kinds of things.
And that maybe they're going beyond Paul a little,
I don't know, but Paul does say
they don't need to circumcise.
And I found where he was, by the way,
I think he missed out again.
It's 38, 2138.
2138, aren't you the Egyptian?
Well, that, okay, the Egyptian,
you know, Steve Mason,
I've had experts on Josephus talk about the Egyptian,
which they called him that
because all the other rebels were typically Jews
in this time period.
There was a Samaritan,
and they just called him the Samaritan,
and there was an Egyptian.
They called him what he was,
because the only people he had to name were the Jews,
because there were so many of them floating around,
they needed to identify them.
But if you were the Egyptian who led a revolt,
they'd call you that,
but what is the, in light of that,
do you speak Greek, he replied?
Aren't you the Egyptian who started a revolt
and led 4,000 terrorists,
or, you know, whatever, out into the wilderness
some time ago?
And so I've had some people who think
that this is evidence that Paul
was actually secretly the Egyptian,
but I don't go that route.
But I don't know that this affects timing
of the letters, just again, in that.
I could have just gone one super chat down,
and I'd have known that they messed up again.
Rats. I'm an idiot.
Sorry.
So did you have a comment on that?
Well, I know, but that was actually good for me too,
like, you know, I did my act search,
that was good for me.
I'm glad you did that, yeah.
But I don't get what the relevant,
is this like somehow dating it?
Well, this is where scholars would say,
if the, when did the Egyptian lead a revolt?
And if acts is claiming to be taking place,
let's say 38 to 40-ish,
or that's where these kind of years are happening,
that this text is supposedly occurring,
when did the Egyptian?
That'd be the question I need to know from a historian
who's aware of when the Egyptian led a revolt
based on what we have in Josephus.
But there's scholars that make the case,
whether you buy it or not,
that acts is aware of Josephus' writings.
I buy it.
I actually am on that train.
I am too, but I know there are some who wanna say,
maybe they had a common source,
or maybe it was just well-known and people,
but I tend to go that route
and think there's something going on.
I also wanna take back something I said earlier,
just in case there's a mystery.
So definitely, people definitely do use acts
to decide what order Paul wrote his letters in.
And it's cause, you know, it talks about,
there's a bit of clarifying
of the various missionary journeys in acts,
you know, more letters. Yeah, that makes sense.
So they absolutely do say what order,
but everyone pretty much agrees
that they had to be written pretty much
between like 52 and 62.
Like, and so, and it's very tough
to slice it thinner than that, shall we say.
And I know there are some who would disagree with that.
I guess you'd say the majority of scholars.
Well, I'm talking about an evangelical.
I'm talking about someone
who absolutely believes all the stuff, right?
Right, right, right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, I, you know,
yeah, I think the second Thessalonians
was written closer to 90 than.
Sometime later.
Yeah.
Michael Beverly.
So posterior and on a historical Jesus,
I mean, Paul, you're saying it's not 100% right
in your mind.
A historical Jesus?
Is he asking like what percentage I would give
on whether Jesus was a myth?
Is that what the question is?
Yeah, I guess that seems to be the point,
like how confident are you just guessing?
I, so this is not for nothing,
but I feel like Luke, the author of Luke
and the author of Matthew wouldn't have had to work so hard
to get Jesus born in Bethlehem
if it was entirely a mythical figure,
because then they could have just said
he was born in Bethlehem.
But I feel like there was enough of a colonel
that he was a Nazarene.
And that was just like ingrained
that whoever, whatever nugget of actual history there is.
And I know that's super thin.
So I don't know, I would give it for me,
I don't know, maybe it's 75, 25, like 75%
there was a dude that in some way
inspired some of the legends and 25%
that it was entirely made up, but.
Yeah, okay.
Thank you, Michael.
Appreciate the super chat.
I don't know, are you way off from me on that or?
Oh, I'm not answering that question.
No, I'm just kidding.
No, no, no, I, it totally is subjectively
throwing numbers out there without putting up.
I don't know, I don't know.
So I lean that there was a guy,
I lean, I would say 70, 30,
I tend to lean that for several reasons,
but I could be completely wrong, right?
I always say this, but it tends to be that, yeah,
you got guys, complete legends being built up
and they did a damn good job, I think,
of making sure Jesus checks off all the box,
all the boxes for this legendary stuff,
from birth narratives to his miraculous activities,
to exorcisms, to the list goes on and on.
And I see other figures who have similarities like that
in the sense that they do these things.
And we would say those are legends as well.
I just don't jump to the, to the, he was a myth
that doesn't make as much sense, whole cloth to me,
as the other position, even though it's plausible,
it could be, but I just don't go that route.
I would just say again, I don't think that the myths,
even though like the super, sometimes it's super compelling
about having interpret passages,
I still don't see how it has better explanatory power
than there was a life of Ryan style guy.
Right.
So I don't know.
Blessed are the cheese makers.
Thank you, Beverly.
Thank you, sir.
Dr. Andy, wouldn't Peter put a grief induced illusion
into perspective and subsequently show some kind of doubt
in what he really saw?
Why would all the others believe such a miraculous claim?
So I guess the question is, why?
If he was primed, if he was absolutely primed
to be wanting this to be true,
but we also frankly don't know that he didn't later
kind of walk it back because once the cat's out of the bag,
the cat's out of the bag,
and why would others believe such a miraculous claim?
Well, every Christian today is a Christian,
not because they saw Jesus,
but because they believed someone who told them.
So if Peter was convinced,
all the explanatory power you need
is that he himself was convinced.
And then it's exactly the same as every other Christian now.
He told it in a convincing way.
And it doesn't, I don't see it as any weirder
than you talking to your neighbor down the street
and they start believing that Jesus rose from the dead.
It's just the time difference doesn't matter.
I don't know, am I missing something?
I feel like the only thing that's missing
into this account is that they'll, I could imagine,
dreams, visions of people actually seeing Jesus, they say,
even today, they're having these experiences
and then therefore they're like,
you'll hear about it in other countries
or in other religious groups,
like Muslims who have a dream about Jesus,
and then they come to discover his true identity
as the real Son of God and they left Islam
and they have to hide that they're not Muslim anymore
and they believe in Jesus and stuff,
but they tell their testimony one day when they finally can
and they say, I had a dream one night
or these kinds of things because,
but as far as being there,
supposedly witnessing this stuff happening,
none of us were there.
And unless you ask the Australian Jesus
who claims to be Jesus,
and then he was actually crucified in the first century
because he is Jesus, you know, you could ask these guys,
but...
Post-breedment is wildly varied,
like so everyone experiences it differently,
but I've talked to people who've had,
just because it comes up, it comes up,
it's 15% of people who have had it.
They, like it's only their Western mindset that lets them,
like it's only because they don't believe in a supernatural
that they recognize that, okay, that wasn't the thing
because for them it was very visceral.
Right?
Like these things can seem super real.
So this whole notion that we can,
I know I'm psychoanalyzing in a way
to say that that's a possible explanation,
but for someone to pause it,
well, no one's ever been fooled by such a thing.
I don't see that.
What you, with this question
and what your position is,
I find interesting Matthew chapter 28,
and I'll read it without pulling it up
just to bring the point.
I think that's interesting.
The Great Commission passage.
Then the 11 disciples went to Galilee
to the mountain where Jesus had told them to go,
post resurrection.
When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted.
And to me, there's a doubting tradition
in the gospels right out the gate.
What is this?
Is this a kernel of historical memory
that many of the early disciples actually really did doubt
even the most dear followers of Jesus?
Because that's what Thomas is,
a story of overcoming that doubt supposedly.
So what is that?
Or is this completely literary?
And what is the goal of saying
that many of those who were there with him,
and he said, go to the mountain, went,
they saw something, they worshiped him,
but some doubted.
How are you gonna doubt
if it's clear what you're looking at?
Is Jesus resurrected?
I don't know, anyway, that's just my thoughts.
I agree, yeah.
Love it. Okay.
Michael, we'll get a couple more.
We need to wrap it up here to let you go.
I know that you have to go.
I do have a stop, yeah.
And you gotta prepare.
Michael Beverly, thank you.
Dr. Byrd is great.
She's coming to talk to me March 5th.
I just finished her book, Permission Granted,
a couple of nights ago.
Time for you two to write a book.
Michael, all I wanna say is that
I actually watched your stream
with Mike LaCona the other day, and that was fun.
I thought you did a good job with that.
So well done.
So I'm sure you'll do a great job with Dr. Byrd.
And yeah, I agree.
Dr. Byrd is great.
Thank you so much, Michael.
Greg Royce, or Royce, forgive me if I butchered that.
I've seen your vids on Marcian,
but haven't seen this question.
Could Trinitarian doctrine be a response to dosatism?
That's you.
I don't know.
I honestly don't know that answer.
I know that most of the academics in the field
say there's a continual evolving idea
of how to address this issue.
And not all Christians thought Trinitarian, obviously.
That's like blunt.
Everybody knows that, or you should.
But I don't know if it would be a direct response
to dosatism.
I like talking to people like my buddy Neil
who will try to find stuff in the Greek world,
or is there Trinity concepts that are established
and that is where they lift it from?
But there's no way to know with certainty
what ultimately, in my opinion,
influenced coming up with that philosophical model,
the way that they've constructed it,
especially in light of much of the material
like Bart Ehrman talked about how Jesus became God.
Much of the material in the biblical text
does contradict the notion of what later,
the doctrine of Trinity that becomes the creed is.
And so later ideas usurp earlier doctrines
that were the truth.
And then those truths became heretical over time
according to many of the scholars I've talked to.
And of course, just the nature of things
is that the scribes didn't copy out the things
that they were later considered heretical.
So unfortunately, the heretical writings
that you might be writing,
creating a polemic for,
fortunately, we'll never get to see.
Well, I'm saying even in the canon,
there are fossils of ideas that seem to be
contrary to Trinity, but in light of other passages,
the Christians rationalized and went,
oh, well, we found it here in our text.
And so the Trinity is still valid,
even though you can find a text that says Jesus
is not on the same level as his father,
or he is praying to God, but he is God.
And they've found ways to maneuver and play gymnastics.
Anyway, sorry.
I agree.
T99 says, thank you for both of your channels.
God becoming a man to be a perfect sacrifice to himself
is dizzying.
No question, just thanks.
Thank you, T99.
Thank you.
One more mistype for the LOLs here.
Acts 666.
Is that even, I don't know, I'm gonna see.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, check.
It says if you're happy and you know it, clap your hands.
Hallelujah, I appreciate that verse that doesn't exist.
Acts 666 is, thank you for the super chat.
That's what it says in the original Greek.
In the, yeah.
You know, my son actually did that.
He was little, couldn't read at the time.
We asked him what his fortune cookie said.
We're at a restaurant and he's so serious.
If you're happy and you know it, clap your hand.
It was the cutest thing.
I loved it.
Oh, amazing.
William Arans, thank you for the final super chat
and being here for such a long time
and being there with apology.
William Arans, God does not talk to humans
as he did to Adam, Moses, and Job,
nor is a resurrected Christ among us,
but believers can feel connected through the Holy Spirit
whose presence can replace that absence.
Okay.
Well, thank you, William.
I'm not sure that's what you believe
and we, and I think Derek and I actually are both,
we kind of addressed this before,
that is the ingredient that we are missing
in terms of our belief.
I feel like we have loaded up at least as much knowledge.
It should be minimally needed
to become a mere Christianity Christian,
but what we are missing is that Holy Spirit.
So if anyone in the audience,
I'm always fine with anyone in the audience praying for me
as long as they don't tell me.
So feel free.
Oh, so it offends you when people tell you that?
No, it doesn't offend me,
but I feel like, you know, you're supposed to pray in secret.
Like it's Bible commands, you're not supposed to.
So, and I also, yeah, there's just performance weirdness.
I don't know why I thought maybe he's offended.
He doesn't want people to tell me.
No, I'm not, I'm actually not offended.
Like when people say I'm gonna pray for you,
I'm like, in your worldview, that means the lot.
So thank you.
Right, that means I respect you are usually,
or it could mean I'm gonna pray for you.
But I agree, like, I think probably the older I get,
the more I'm realizing, man,
the ingredient I'm missing is that Holy Spirit,
that William Lane Craig's, you know,
feeling of warmth and coziness that I just don't have.
I so appreciate you, Paul, being my friend
and being a fellow seeker
of trying to figure things out with the best you can.
Is there anything you're working on right now
that you can tell our 769 people to support you to?
Boy, well, no, as Derek said,
I think I had a great video the other day
on with responding to Mike Winger
on the Satan's Guide to the Bible.
I have a long list of guests that are coming up,
but I don't like to jinx it with spilling the beans.
So just I subscribe and stay tuned.
And apology live is another channel
where I like to have a little more relaxed fun,
just like this.
So both channels are good.
And obviously, Derek, your friendship means a lot to me as well.
I think we can be brothers and iron,
tri-burning iron and all that kind of good stuff.
So appreciate you.
Absolutely, in fact, I didn't wanna tell you this till now,
but you and me both share the same father, Apollo,
snuck into our mother's bedrooms years back,
and we're actually half brothers.
Didn't wanna spoil the good news.
That's where I guess, obviously I'm older
because I got the name, Apollo Gia.
Exactly, see.
Yeah, also you have a Patreon, people can help you there.
I do, and like Derek,
we try and eke out a meager living much as Paul did
when he was a tent maker.
So those who fight the gospel
should make their living paying the gospel, I guess.
I don't know how to warp that verse,
but yes, no, if you're a support both of us,
if you like what we do,
because it makes a huge difference
and we wanna get information out there to all of you.
So appreciate it.
I will say just on my end as we're wrapping this up,
I am postponing our tour
that we were going to do over in Israel
till everything is fully calmed down
and everything is over in terms of the war.
And the scholars also who were going along with me
want to do that as well.
So probably spring, fall, 2025,
giving it plenty of time to know
that things are good and stable.
And also I'm potentially interested
in putting together some type of crews.
Like not, we need to go to this place in Scythe Sea,
but like a possible conference cruise type scenario
where skeptics and scoundrels like us can join
and kick our feet off, enjoy the social life
of connecting with other people
and have potential scholarly conference discussions.
We can figure out things,
but wouldn't it be cool to do that not like,
not just go into like Texas
and going to like a three-day, two-day hotel
conference kind of thing, but on a cruise
for Mithfish.
If we can get it on an ARC, you all the better.
Exactly.
We got to get on the boat
because the world's going to flood again.
And I'm sure there's several other things coming up.
So stay tuned and thank you everybody.
Do you want me to play an outro or do we just need to go?
We just sign off.
All right, love y'all.
Like the video.
Subscribe.
