in the beginning. History, legend, and myth in Genesis. You do not want to miss this course
with Dr. Bart D. Ehrman. As I do this interview today, we're having fun. But trust me, sign up
now. There's an early bird special, mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash Genesis and go and sign up for
the course while it's early. This six lecture course is going to dive into various subjects.
For example, he's going to be discussing mysteries and meanings of the Pentateuch.
Myth, science, and how it all began. Did Genesis borrow its stories from other cultures? Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. History or legend. The Bible and morality. Case studies from the
patriarchs. And who wrote the Pentateuch? I know you're as interested in this stuff as I am.
This is why I want you to sign up. Don't forget mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash Genesis.
Sign up now while it's cheaper. You'll have discounts for further lectures in the future
and so much more to come. There's also going to be a live that you don't want to miss. We
are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Dr. Bart D. Ehrman is with me again today.
Dr. Ehrman, you have courses coming up and we're going to be dealing with Genesis.
Can you tell us just what has your interest with this book in particular? Is there anything
most of all? I know there's so much to talk about, but like most of all,
what piques your interest the most about the book of Genesis?
Well, you know, Janet, it's the first book of the Bible. So it's like the beginning of both the
Jewish and the Christian scriptures. And it's, it gives the account of the creation of the world
and Adam and Eve and the flood under Noah and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the ancestors of
Israel. If you want to understand what lies at the very foundation of Judaism and Christianity,
Genesis is the place to go. And so this course, I'm dealing with it, trying to understand what's
in it, what it's all about, but also trying to understand how historians approach it as opposed
to people who just read it and try to make up what they can. And what do scholars who study this
sort of thing think about it? And I present this in simple language. You know, I don't,
I don't present it as a scholar, but you're trying to introduce it to people who are not scholars.
Yeah, I think a lot of people who are going to tune in are going to learn a lot from this,
from the six part series that you're going to have online. They can watch it anytime, of course.
One of the questions, it's going to sound odd. Everyone has questions. And one of mine in particular,
have you heard of a theory called Adam is Israel?
That Adam is Israel, I don't believe I have. Instructing.
I'm not going to instruct you and I'm not going to waste my time going too far,
because you know, I always bring some crazy stuff out of the woodworks to you. And you always look
at me like, what? But they think, and I just wanted to ask you this, this question I think you
can answer is, their whole idea is why is there the law, right? Why do we see stuff like how does
no one know what clean and unclean animal is? How does Cain and Abel know how to sacrifice?
Like there are things that are anachronistic that we know only show up later in Genesis.
This will help us with dating this book, I think, just a bit. But it'll at least tell you that it's
past the mosaic. This book is being written after the mosaic covenant is in effect. However,
they use this to say that Genesis is really a secret story about the history of Israel.
And the reason why is you see kind of this exile happening in Genesis in the garden.
It's kind of a prefiguring of the exile of Israel. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, no. So whoever wrote
Genesis, there are several sources behind the book of Genesis that are from different written at
different times, which is part of what I talk about in my course. These authors are living
probably between the 10th and the sixth century of the before the common era. And they are living
after the law of Moses has been known and followed some extent. Certainly the final author is somebody
who lives after the after the after the law of Moses living in the sixth century. And so
what I would say is that the author knows these laws for one thing, but he also knows the history
of Israel. And I think it's right that the book of Genesis is foreshadowing a lot of what's going
to happen in the nation of Israel. And the author is intentionally doing it, but he's not doing it
because he thinks that Adam is Israel. That's just like that's a superficial reading of symbolism.
Story narratives work by foreshadowing things that are going to happen later. And often in Genesis,
it leads to anachronisms. It leads to things like it just doesn't work. You know, when you got
camels, you got domesticated camels in the 18th century BCE. No, they weren't domesticated yet.
And so there are these mistakes, but there are also these foreshadowings that are intentionally
put there. So what's going on that evening kicked out. Yeah, that's like the exile. Israel
disobeys, it gets kicked out. And so that's absolutely there. But it's not because it's a code.
It's because the author is using foreshadowing, which is a good literary device.
So there's not a single Jew in history that we could go to, for example,
that would think Adam wasn't the first man on earth, like meaning the father of all humanity.
Well, I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I've never met every Jew. So
work with me here. Work with me.
You're not the only ones who come up with the weird ideas.
That's true. That's true.
I don't know. But generally throughout the history of Judaism, it was understood
that Adam was the creation of God and was the first human being to be created.
Okay. I ask because there's certain groups who think that maybe Adam actually is the first
he's Israel, right? So they're trying to limit the scope of which Adam is. And from what I
understood, and I've always thought this way, including what I've read from Jews, phylojocethics,
you name it, contemporary to the first century, they all thought Adam was the first man of all
creation. Now, there's just somebody, you know, making something up because they don't understand
how to read a book. I mean, it's just like if you read Genesis, it actually all ties together.
And Israel is the later designation of Jacob. We're explicitly told where Israel comes from.
And the whole point of Abraham is that his descendants will be a multitude and will inherit
the land, not Adam's descendants. The whole point of Adam is that he has, he has, Adam has
children and they have children, they have children. You get down to Noah. Noah's got three
children, right? Noah comes from one one line from Adam, but the three children then populate
the earth and Israel comes from one of those three. Right. Adam can't represent all of Israel.
Thank you so much for clarifying that. That is really straightforward. I think the same thing.
Now, just to get back into this, because I think everyone needs to go check these courses out.
I mean, especially if you want to know when, where, how, why, what's going on in this book?
And there's so much amazing things I've heard you earlier with some of our other affiliates.
Point out that are really amazing about the story and its impact and the meaning of life and
why do we die? Like, why do we die? Why do we suffer? Why do women have birth in pain? I mean,
there's a lot of really common basic, like today we would be like, no, we look to science, but
in the ancient world, this was how they viewed it. So I'm tying this into my Christian faith,
because I left Christianity years ago. And this is the idea that if Adam didn't exist,
then how does the Christian message of original sin, which does come later, even work? And if you,
when you answer that, of course, it might not take you long to explain that because it's a
later idea. How does it even work with Paul if Adam didn't exist? Well, I mean, the theologians
who came up with the idea of original sin thought Adam did exist. And so their theological view
is based on on Adam being a real figure. But the theological the theological view,
don't worry, pause this, you're fine.
Okay, sorry, no problem.
So the people that Paul and every other Jew in the ancient world, and every Christian
ancient world thought that Adam really existed as a being. But, you know, there was there was
not an original Adam, their theology about original sin is predicated on Adam existing.
Theologians, if they are conservative evangelicals would probably say Adam had to exist. Otherwise,
you can't explain human sin, sin nature. Evangelicals, of course, don't believe in original sin in the
Catholic sense, but they do think that people were born sinful, because they're related to Adam.
But you know, there are plenty of theologians in the world who are not literalists about the Bible,
who still would talk about human sin nature. And they would acknowledge that Augustine
understood this in a certain way, and that he's he's developing it from the writings of Paul,
who's and who's developing out of an apocalyptic view that began. So they have a completely historical
understanding. But they they what they do is they try to understand the truth claim about it,
without requiring some kind of literal thing behind it. And so it's kind of like today when people
think about in America, people might think about George Washington, and how how this nation is
founded on the principles of honesty, because George Washington was such an honest man. And
they tell stories about the honesty of George Washington. Well, the reality of these stories
are made up. They aren't, you know, but we still they still teach us something about our nation
for people who believe these stories, or about Abraham Lincoln, you come up with stories. And so
the fact that the stories are not literally true historically, doesn't have any bearing on the
truth claims about what they're trying to say about the country. And that's how that's how
that's how sophisticated theologians understand the Bible. It's not that this another really was
an Adam and Eve, and that there was no Adam and Eve. Oh, I can't explain sin anymore. No, you can.
You just have to understand that it's not based on the historical event. You couldn't find yourself
doing that, though. You I mean, imagine now today with what you know, trying to do that and actually
believing in it. I could do that. I mean, if I believed in God, I would absolutely do that.
So you would be forced to, though, now that you know what you know, you'd be forced to.
No, that's what I believed when I was a Christian. I had been a conservative evangelical for many
years, and I believed in the literal truth of Genesis for many years. But as I went through
my education when I was in the graduate school and did a master's degree, did a PhD, then I got out.
I mean, I was still a Christian. But I knew that there was no Adam and Eve. But I but I understood
these things as conveying truths that I accepted. I mean, it doesn't take much to look around to
realize that, you know, people are not particularly nice to one another. More human beings have very
awful things about there's something wrong with us. And the doctrine of sin tries to explain why
there's something wrong with us. And it really related to the idea that we're finite creatures
and we're mortal. And it creates and so so these theological understandings, I think,
can be extremely valuable. But I don't I don't do that kind of theology anymore,
because I don't even believe in God. And so I have evolutionary psychological reasons for
believing that we're the way we are, rather than theological reasons. I was literally just about
to say that maybe we're like the animals for a reason. But okay, the animals were one of them.
That is an interesting point. Now, how far in Genesis is this course going to deal with it?
Where exactly are we going to be going in this course in particular in Genesis? Because when
we think of Genesis, I think of the flood. And I think of the garden. You know, typically, there's
the first places. Are you going to be going through later into Joseph? I go yeah, I go all the way
through. So I so the first the first 11 chapters of Genesis are called the primeval history. So
it's like the really ancient stuff before there's real history, history. So it's, it's, you know,
it's, it's the creation as Adam and Eve and the flood and the tower babble. That chapter 12,
it starts with more legendary material with people who are, you know, allegedly least historical
stories about Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Joseph and such. And that goes from chapter 12
to 50. So my course, I deal with the entire thing. I don't obviously, I'm not going to talk about
everything in the book of Genesis. I talk about three points. And I talk about scholars are said
about key points, like, you know, are there two, two accounts of creation, not just one, and do
they contradict each other? Was there, you know, what can we say about the flood story? Like,
both, you know, did it happen? No. And, and tensions within the flood. But then, you know,
was there really an Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? Or these legends? Are they historical? And what are
they trying to teach us at every point? Like, what are these stories trying to teach us,
whether you're a believer or not? I'm not a believer, but I still think they're really,
really good stories. Genesis is an amazing book. And it's a book that people almost always
misunderstand. But scholars have said a lot of things about it that can be really helpful for
understanding and thinking about it. So that's the point of the course. I'm excited. I'm really
looking forward to getting signed up, going and checking this out myself. I hope you watching
as well would do the same because I know Dr. Ehrman, he's read the Hebrew, he knows Hebrew,
he's read the Bible in Hebrew, the Hebrew Bible. And he's well aware of this context. We've had
many conversations. I even put him to the test every time. I know for a fact, before we interview,
he's like, all right, we're going deep. It's Derek again, you know, and this is what we do. So,
if you're a fan of MythVision, if you're a fan of Dr. Ehrman, please go sign up now. I really look
forward to it. If there's anything you could tell him about the course, anything you could highlight
that I haven't highlighted you'd like to mention, Dr. Ehrman? It makes scholarship available to a
general public so you can understand it and see why scholars think what they think. It's going to be
the first part of the many courses probably on the Bible. And it's on one of the most important
books of the Bible. And if you purchase it during the early purchase period, you get a discount.
It's all good. And for this kind of course, I mean, you'll see from the material, this would
cost a lot if this were produced commercially. And it's affordable. And I think it's really worth it.
You know, many people spend literally thousands, sometimes up to a hundred and something thousand
dollars just to go to college and to hear some of these professors such as yourself
and to learn and delve into these. Here they get the opportunity, sitting on their couch,
in their bed, on their phone, hanging out and get to ask questions sometimes when we do these. So,
be on the lookout. There's so much more coming. Make sure you sign up. I will see you there.
And thank you so much, Dr. Ehrman. I really appreciate your time. Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it.
