What really happened in the Garden of Eden? Within the Genesis narrative, the Garden of Eden has
talking snakes, man made from dirt, Eve made from a rib, and many other details like tree of
knowledge of good and evil and the tree of life, kicking people out of the garden and them being
found naked. All of these details, are they mythology? Are they literal history? Could there be a
combination of both? Dr. Bruce Wells believed that he has pinned the tail on the donkey so to speak
and found where this may have come from in Babylon. That this story may have originated in the 5th,
6th century BCE in the time of the captivity in Babylon. We address questions such as Adam is
Israel or various theories about what may have happened, what was the serpent and the stomping,
the bruising of the hill of Adam and Eve or Eve's seed versus that of the serpents.
All of these mysterious symbols and possible metaphors, can they be decipher? You tell us
what you think, check out the video.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Today, I have another special guest.
I'm excited to discuss the topic of the Garden of Eden. Maybe you never understood this story.
We've all heard of it, but maybe we don't quite understand when and where and what's the context
and what does it mean? Genesis 2 through 3. My special guest today is Dr. Bruce Wells. Welcome
to MythVision. Thank you, Derek. Glad to be here. Thank you. I saw your interview over at my friends,
Digital Hammurabi. Dr. Joshua Bowen and Megan Lewis, they interviewed you. It was a fantastic
interview. I hope to delve into similar content today. Maybe we touch on things that weren't
mentioned. Let's have some fun. Before we do, I want to go ahead and let everyone know,
Dr. Bruce Wells is an associate professor of Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Texas,
where he specializes in the study of Hebrew Bible and ancient Near East. If you will,
Dr. Wells, this is your first time appearing on my program. Can you tell us a little bit more
about yourself? I'm going to surf through your books to get people acquainted to see some of the
literature they can go down in the description and purchase to read up on themselves.
Sure. My first book was a revised version of my PhD dissertation called the Law of
Testimony and the Pentateuchal Codes. I was very interested in the justice system in the ancient
Near East, how they handled legal disputes, how they set up court systems and things like that.
I looked at the issue of testimony and how that's used in trial records throughout the ancient
Near East, particularly how testimony is referred to in biblical texts. I try to make the argument
that the Neo-Assyrian and Neobablonian material in particular helps to shed light on some of the
laws in the Old Testament regarding testimony, how many witnesses you can have when witnesses have
to testify, and what you do about false witnesses. Then shortly after that, I collaborated with
Raymond Westbrook on this small book, Everyday Law on Biblical Israel and Introduction.
It looks at different issues in the legal system of ancient Israel from the perspective of a legal
historian. We look at contracts, status, possession of land and ownership, litigation,
those sorts of things, crime and torts, not so much from a religious perspective, but
using the categories that a legal historian would use to analyze what's going on in that legal system.
We think the book is unique in that way. It's a very short read and I think it's a very interesting
read, of course. Then two years ago, two other scholars and I came out with a book that's
much harder to read. It's 700 pages, but I think it's full of interesting stuff. We published
some new documents that hadn't been published before in here from Babylonia. The book is called
Fault Responsibility and Administrative Law in Late Babylonian Legal Text. We came up with that
title at a restaurant table somewhere in Berlin. Then we argued about it for a while, but once we
had made the agreement, we couldn't agree to change it to anything that we liked. It looks
basically at administrative law during the Neobablonian period, which is the time of the famous
King Nebuchadnezzar and the first few Persian kings. We argue that during this period, you start
to see the first real evidence of something that you can call administrative law. The temples were
one of the chief administrative agencies of that time period. They standardized things in such a
way that they had an administrative system governed by rules and that punished people in a predictable
way. We consider that to be administrative law. It's a long detailed argument, but
we think it will change the way people look at that period and the way they understand the development of law
during that period, which is really the 500s, mainly BCE. Very interesting because this leads
right into our discussion today in some respects, understanding the Genesis story. I have to admit,
and I just say this coming from my own background, to getting to where you and the experts are on this,
just trying to figure out the better questions and maybe some answers about what the meaning of
what's going on in Genesis is. I used to literally believe in the fundamentalist approach, if you
will, talking snake, everything to the T was literal. Maybe there is some truth to the story
of this happening, where eventually I started to anthropomorphize and say, well, the snake is
actually a man and the man is actually this guy or some other explanation, which might be
anachronistic. But I'm really interested in diving into the Genesis Garden of Eden story,
and it's all its intricacies, if you will, the details. Let's journey into what is going on,
and maybe with your Babylonian expertise, and I've made that the background actually behind us,
so whenever we're not on the screen, that Babylonian background might help us define
what's happening. So tell us what's going on in Genesis.
Well, I should say I got interested in this project on Genesis 2 and 3 because of the
work I was doing on the Neobablonian period for that most recent book, and I started to notice
that there were documents where temple officials told some of their servants to guard certain
plots of land in a way that seemed similar to me to the Genesis story. So I started to do more
research on this and read the story more closely, and of course, I was hoping to see parallels, and
so I think I do see a lot of parallels between what's happening in Babylonia around this time
period that I was talking about and what the author of the Genesis story is trying to say.
But I think a good place to start for the Genesis story is to say that at the beginning it says,
no vegetation had grown on the earth yet, and there was no man to work the ground,
and that's when God created the man and so on. But the key is there's no man to work the ground,
and then at the end of the story, it says that God or Yahweh sent them out of the garden
so that the man could work the ground. So in a sense, you can say the story is one giant etiology
or explanation of how it came to be that men worked the ground to grow food to survive.
But in between that beginning and that end, there's a lot of stuff to unpack. So it sort of
it sort of disguises itself, the story disguises itself as this giant etiology about agriculture.
But just a little tiny peek under the surface shows that it's
about much more than that. And I think you're right, there is some truth to it
in terms of how we understand the human condition and things like that. So
I think it helps to understand, first of all, though, it dresses itself up as a literary work
explaining kind of the origins of agriculture. But people generally don't remember it for that,
of course. So this is a fascinating point to bring up. You mentioned briefly just right
past it. I was looking for parallels and I think I found some and you're very cautious. I noticed
this about academia. This is why I love you guys so much. You're very cautious to say, I know that
for certainty, for fact, you have a very good hunch and you come at it probabilistically. But
are you maybe just to get your opinion, do you think that many scholars were exploring
intertextuality or possible relationship, genetic relationship between this literature and these
times? Do you think they have parallelophobia? It's almost like they don't want to find the
connections because if they do, what does this do to our narrative? Or I mean, I'm not saying for
everyone, but what are your personal thoughts on that? I tend to favor looking for parallels and
I've been to lots of conferences and different lectures where people will stand up and say,
I'm going to talk about parallels, but I want to be super cautious about it and say we shouldn't be
caught up in what they call parallel mania and looking for parallels all the time. I take your
point that people can often be too cautious because if we act a little more boldly and point out these
parallels more clearly, I think that pushes us forward in terms of thinking about what's going
on in terms of cultural interaction and maybe some intertextuality. Sometimes that's hard to pin
down if an author is thinking about a certain text or a certain collection of text as they're
producing their own work. But I tend to favor and have been criticized for this, tend to favor
looking for parallels and articulating them as clearly as we can. So just for instance,
there are a couple of texts from this Neobablonian time period I'm talking about where temple
officials assign a certain kind of temple servant to guard an orchard. And it sounds to me very
similar to what's going on in Genesis 3 where Yahweh, who is running his sacred estate there in
Eden, he seems to live in Eden and have his angels there in Eden. And the garden is just part of
Eden. And he assigns the man to guard the garden, the Hebrew word is Shamar, which means to guard.
And then the other verb that's used is a general word for work. So he's to work the garden, kind of
take care of it and guard it. And it's an orchard, it's a garden of trees. So we would call it an
orchard. And I thought, you know, that sounds exactly like what's happening with the Babylonian
temples where they have lots of orchards, and they need someone to guard them from thieves,
from animals that can come in there and eat. And there are certain texts where these servants
can eat from certain trees within the orchard, but cannot eat from other trees within the orchard.
It depends on how full grown they are. The full grown fruit producing trees are reserved for the
temple. The younger trees that might be producing a little bit of fruit can be used by the servants.
And I think, you know, where I'm going to go with this ultimately is to try to say that
the author of the story is trying to portray Adam and Eve as this particular type of temple servant.
In Babylonia, the term for this type of servant was a shirku, which means given one or devoted one.
So someone has given this person to the temple. They're not really a temple slave, but they are
dependent on the temple for their sustenance. And they are certainly subject to the temple's
authority, but the temple can't buy and sell them as it could regular chattel slaves.
But I think in the Garden of Eden story, Yahweh functions as the administrator of the sacred
estate, which is like a temple estate. And Adam functions as one of his servants. So I think
there are a number of parallels that can be drawn out from making that particular connection.
And I've given some lectures on this and we're working on a book, and I'm going to try to make
the argument stronger in the book. But I'm being a little cautious about it and how I
state it just because I don't have time here necessarily to lay out all the evidence to
try to convince viewers that I'm right about this. So I just want them to understand this is my take
on it for now. And hopefully at some point, I'll be able to lay out the evidence and then people
can make up their own minds. Yeah, I'm excited about this. So a few foundational questions I'd
love to ask you in particular, are you on board with the idea that, and it's probably consensus
here, I'm just making the claim to get your personal professional estimation on this is
Genesis and this Adam and Eve story about the first human. I mean, is this the myth about
there were no humans before this as lots of people will try to make the case.
You know, this is the first man, whereas there are some people popping up that are trying to say
Adam is Israel, or he's not the first man. Therefore, we don't have to deal with the
problem of evolution. So they're always constantly trying to anachronistically deal with science
and then try to justify it. So is Adam like the first man in human history, according to the
Genesis, meth? Wow, okay, that's a good question. The reason I can't answer it super simply is that
it seems to me at least, and I think to a number of other scholars that the whole story
is made up out of at least two, if not three different stories. So I think there was an
original creation story that didn't have the special trees and the talking snake and the
disobedience in it. But I think there was a story where Adam is created. I don't think
it really calls him Adam. Adam is the word for man or human. So he's the man. He is created.
His wife is created. And I think the last statement in that story comes in chapter three,
verse 20, where it says an Adam named his wife Eve or the man named his wife Eve,
because she is the mother of all living. And I think it ends there. The original story probably
ended there. So in that story, yes, for whoever's writing that, there, yeah, I guess I could say
in a way they're claiming that Adam is the first human creature on earth. But I'm a little hesitant
to start saying that that's a ridiculous idea. I mean, because our conceptions of science and
history come partly from the Middle Ages and partly from after the Enlightenment.
And to talk about history and science in post-Enlightenment terms within the context of an
ancient society is not exactly a neat, clean fit. So I mean, yes, an author was telling this story
myth or saga about Adam being the first person. And I don't think the person is necessarily trying
to do history or to do science. They're telling what they think is an interesting story. And I
don't know exactly why they're telling it or what they want to communicate with that. But at a surface
level, yes, the author's trying to say that Adam is the first person. And, you know, they don't know
that. They don't know what we know. And so we can judge them harshly for it, or we can treat them a
little more charitably, I suppose. Yeah, I mean, I definitely take the charitable approach. I think
that letting people know the difference, though, is very important to know cosmology was different
than a lot of different things play a significant role. And I love to educate people on that so
that we would, you know, there's a lot of fundamentalists, like I said, I came out of that are extreme
and, you know, younger, flatter, even they go so far. So it's like, eh, let's cut through that.
Yeah, I just want to say, I agree. To me, there are fundamentalists on both sides. They're the
religious fundamentalists who say we have to take it literally, or it's of no value to us. And there
are the so-called, well, I would say maybe fundamentalists are extremists on the other side who
say if it doesn't match up with science, then it's of no value. And they say clearly it doesn't
match up with science. So it's not worth even thinking about or talking about. So there's,
there are two extremes there. And usually the truth is somewhere in the middle. And, you know,
I think that's where our discussion will take place today.
Yeah, I'm with you on that. I love literature and these stories. They tell us a lot about us
and how we thought and what we're trying to do. Real quick, two questions as we dive into this.
Death. It seems like this story, at least this part of the story, because if we look at like
the documentary hypothesis, or if you look at supplementary, whatever position you take that
they're splicing narratives together, this redactor. And my question is, is this trying to
maybe tell us why we die? Like this seems to be trying to explain the age old question,
like why do we have to die? And then, you know what I mean?
I think it's something like that that's going on. So James Barr, who taught at Oxford and
then Vanderbilt, he's a British scholar, passed away, you know, 15 years ago now, I think.
He wrote a book in 92. I'm not going to remember the name of it now, but his point was
this story, like other stories from the ancient world, are in a sense about why we die. But
more specifically, they're about how we lost immortality or how we, I guess I should say,
why we don't have immortality. And so you have a number of these stories
that talk about the ancient times, the early days, when there was this slight chance where
it looked like humans might be able to get immortality. And then they don't slips through
their fingers. You probably know the Gilgamesh story where he finds the plant of everlasting life
and silly him. He doesn't eat it right away. He saves it, you know, puts it in his boat,
takes a break from rowing or whatever. And some kind of reptile, interestingly enough,
comes along and steals the plant, drags it down to the bottom of the ocean where it will never
be found again. And humanity lost out on its chance to gain immortality. And so he says,
this story is being told in a somewhat different way, but ultimately, it's explaining,
like you said, why we die, why we're mortal, how we lost out at the very beginning of the world.
Wow. Yeah, I love looking at that, comparing them and stuff. And does your approach to Genesis,
the way you're doing this with Babylon, does it help us maybe with dating?
Because we love to want to know when something was written and people go, oh,
don't get me into that question. But it sounds like if they're using this Neo Babylonian,
if I could call it that motif, and we see it in this time frame, can that help us with dating Genesis?
I hope so. I might have to be extra cautious on this point because dating is
a fraught question. We have these manuscripts with these stories, and to try to date them
is very difficult. And some people have made some good arguments about dating things linguistically,
so that you look at the kind of Hebrew that's used in a given story, and you might be able to say,
well, that seems older than other texts that use a different kind of Hebrew. So books like Daniel
and Ezra and Nehemiah and Chronicles, they have very late Hebrew in them. Other books,
parts of Samuel and Kings, even parts of Genesis have older Hebrew.
But it's hard to be conclusive using linguistic criteria in that way. I would like to think
my work can help us with dating this story. Now, one big issue has to do with whether the Garden
of Eden story was written before or after the first creation story where it all happens in
six days and then God rests on the seventh. So do Genesis two and three come before that chronologically
in terms of composition or later? And I have believed for a long time that the Garden of
Eden story came first, and then Genesis one from what we call the priestly source came second.
Now, I'm not so sure, partly because my own research, and I've been reading other scholars
who are saying the Garden of Eden story comes later, and they make some very
good arguments because they try to show how the Garden of Eden story is reacting
in certain ways to the priestly story. One example would be the priestly story says over and over
that creation is good. God saw what he had created and it was good. And then the second thing that
God says in the Garden of Eden story is that something is not good. It's not good for the man
to be alone. And it almost sounds as if an author is sort of poking at the priestly story saying,
wait, not everything is quite up to snuff here. And there are certain things about creation that
have to be treated with more nuance or something. So that debate is still playing out. But one
of the most recent efforts to talk about dating came out in a book in 2018. Mark Smith, maybe
you know him, he was at New York University for a while. And he says the sixth century or the
500 seems to him the best time and he has his own reasons for that. And that's exactly where I
would like to place it because it fits with the Neobablonian stuff going on. Real quickly,
this particular kind of temple servant I'm focused on, the Shirkoo, they become very prominent in
that century. They are attested at other temples, even in Assyria, before that time.
And it could just be the fact that we don't have the kinds of evidence we would like from earlier
times to show us that these temple servants were widespread and active like they are later. But
they're not attested a lot earlier. They're not attested in the Old Babylonian period or the
Middle Babylonian period. So I think I hope what I'm saying will have some bearing on dating,
but we'll see. But yeah, I mean, I think if they're using this motif as seriously as I think they are,
then yes, we probably have to make it sometime in the sixth century. And that's going to that
could throw things throw a wrench into the whole discussion of the relationship between the two
stories. Yeah, there's so many questions on dating and like for me that I'd love to further maybe
ask and probe with you on like and I'll give you an example and I don't necessarily want to go there
because there's so many details we can go into in the garden and get in this comparison. But simply
put would be like if this is sixth century BC, let's say, then because there's a redactor that
compiled multiple narratives, some maybe way older, some maybe even newer than that, makes you really
wonder when did the composition of the what we call the Tanakh, the Torah, when did that actually
like when it was like, okay, you know, we have the Bible stories about, oh, we found it, we discovered
and people are thinking that's the whole Tanakh. But it makes me wonder like, was it a fourth century
finally redactor who said, hey, we're putting all of this together, makes me really scratch my head
in wonder. That's all. So yeah, if you want to comment, you can, I just didn't want to get you
rabbit-challed on speculation because I know you have a lot of great things to discuss.
Just a quick comment is I think something like that is going on. The Dead Sea Scrolls come from the
maybe 150 BC and later, so you know, into the time of Jesus and so on. So some kind of redaction
has happened by that point. So maybe fourth century, traditionally people said it was around the time
of Ezra and maybe he had a hand in doing it. But it's hard to even date Ezra himself and his story
but I would say, yes, I would agree. Something like that is going on. Late fifth, early fourth,
maybe mid fourth century, somebody's putting a lot of this stuff together.
Thank you so much. All right, so you mentioned these temple guards, if you will, these vineyard
guards and whatnot. And if you would, can you tell us in some, I guess, poetic way what's going on
over here with Adam and Eve and then maybe like, give us a parallel to kind of connect the story
in our heads, giving us a visual. Right. Okay. So in the Garden of Eden story, Adam,
well, we find out very little about what he's supposed to do. It just says he's supposed to work
the garden and guard the garden. And I should start calling it an orchard because it's just,
as far as we know, it only has trees in it. So we would call that an orchard in our language.
So he's working the orchard and guarding it. You would think he might have to do other things
because in the Babylonian stuff, these temple servants, they have to do
things like clearing away the debris before the garden, the orchard can be planted.
They have to, of course, dig and plant some of the trees.
Before that, they have to moisten the ground so they can dig into it. Then they have to also dig
branches off a main canal. So there'll be a smaller canal running over toward their orchard.
But all of that seems to be taken care of by Yahweh in the Genesis story because it says he
plants the orchard. He causes the trees to spring up out of the ground. And there are rivers running
out of Eden that help to water the orchard. And even before that, before he creates the man,
it says a mist was rising up from the ground that watered the face of the earth. So it almost
sounds like, to me at least, the author is thinking of these different steps that have to
happen in order to plant an orchard. You have to moisten the ground. You have to plant the seeds.
You have to get the trees to grow up. And you have to create an irrigation system to keep it
watered because these are probably date palms. That was the most widespread cultivated tree that
we know of in Babylonia at least at the time. And they require a lot of water. So irrigation is a
big deal. So these things are taken care of by the God. In the Babylonian texts, they're often
assigned to these temple servants or they could be assigned to people I'm going to call temple
gardeners who are at a higher status than the servants. So they have a kind of profession.
The servants can be told to do anything. Carry this barley from one place to another,
watch these cattle for a while, help out in the orchards. Whereas the gardeners have a higher
status and basically just do gardening and orchard work. And sometimes they're the ones
responsible for certain, especially special orchards, where they grow the fruit that will
be offered to the gods during certain sacrifices. So it seems to me part of Adam's job in the story
is to take care of the garden because some of this food is reserved for the gods. I say God's
plural, maybe I should say God's singular, but then later in the story Yahweh says, oh look,
the man has become like one of us. And he uses the plural. So you can think of these other beings
as angels or sub gods. Yahweh is clearly the chief god, but he has some kind of entourage or assembly
that he is in control of. And I think one of the things that stands out about these temple
servants from Babylonia is that they're not allowed to do certain things that the higher
status folks were allowed to do. So there were parts of the temple precinct they could not enter.
And if they did, they would get in big trouble. We have at least one text about a servant who
entered a space he wasn't supposed to. They were also not to handle certain food or certain items
that belong to the gods. And there are a couple cases where they seem to overstep their bounds.
One, like I said, entering sacred space that they weren't supposed to. Another one
was learning to recite special incantations that they weren't supposed to know.
And another one was working in one of these special areas that produced fruit for the gods.
They didn't want the servants getting too close to this stuff that was earmarked for the gods.
So when Adam eats from the Tree of Knowledge and Eve, I would say the reader at that point
understands these are temple servants. They're not supposed to overstep their bounds. By eating
from this special tree, they are stepping into territory reserved for the gods and partaking
of stuff that's reserved for the gods. And we even have texts from Babylonia where
the servants are threatened with death should they do some of these things.
And the language I think is very similar between Genesis and some of the Babylonian texts where
it'll say, on the day that you do this thing that you're not supposed to do, you will either die
or you'll be punished in another way. And in Genesis, Yahweh says the same thing in chapter 2
verse 17, on the day that you eat of it, you will surely die. So it sounds to me like one of these
threats or warnings that you get issued to temple servants who are working in these orchards and
in other places as well. So you asked me to kind of explain what's going on. That's an overview of
how I see some of these parallels at work here. So those are some interesting parallels and I
feel like there's other details to the story. I don't know if they would be like a direct parallel
example. Let me point out a couple maybe to get your two cents on it because this is really fun.
Adam's made from dust, from the dirt, if you will. And then God forms and even breathes his
numa, his spirit or wind into him. And now he's a life or he's a living man. And out of his side
or from his rib, if you will, to be more direct, Dr. Joshua Bowen and I had a couple Hebrew scholars
come on that were like, it seems to imply that that seems to make the most sense not just that
they're split in half as this like male-female figure that's cut in half but coming directly from
his rib because we have other potential examples in the Mesopotamian world where from a certain body
part there's like a healing or something that comes from it or I can't remember exactly the
detail but what do we do with these other details? Man is created, then you have Eve made from his
side, etc. How do we piece that into this? Right. Well, there I have to sort of step out of my
particular world of parallels and say I think the story is interacting with a number of things.
It's interacting on the one hand with the mundane every day orchard and garden work that these
servants were involved in. But on the other hand, the story is interacting with mythic themes
from other stories and from the culture itself. And so the creation of man from dust or from soil
sounds a little bit like stories where humans are created from clay like they are in Atrahasis,
the famous Babylonian creation story. And then they're mixed with some element from a god sometimes
with blood from a god. I think that's in the Enuma Eilish. And in Genesis 2, the soil or the clay
is mixed with the breath of God to create the human. So those details that you just mentioned
don't really fit the whole temple servant paradigm that I'm working with. But I think the story is
pulling from multiple sources and interacting with multiple ideas. Some are mythic and literary we
might say and some are coming out of the world of temple operations. And the author's mixing these
two together in a very interesting way. But we have to be a tune, I think, to both types of parallels.
So this technically, and to put it into dumb, dumb terms for guys like me,
if we were to put ourselves in, let's say, someone in Babylon that's an Israelite who
is like breathing the culture, they know what's going on. They're obviously in captivity,
whether they're captive or not, they're living in Babylon. They might even become comfortable
there. And they're participating in these possible functions that we see happening.
This would be like reading what's a good American example of something that we all know. It's a
common trope within the culture, so to speak. Well, something about Thanksgiving and the pilgrims.
Right. It's a tradition we know of, but it may not have really happened that way or something.
Right. And that mythic combined with the temple that you're talking about here would have spoken
far more to them than us trying to figure this out. So it's really interesting to see how you're
piecing those together. Would you say the elements of the serpent? All of that is also within the
mythic paradigm? Mostly, yes. So the serpent is the kind of animal you might expect in a sacred
space. Some people worship serpents in the ancient Near East. We have objects that have
been found in temples by archaeologists to have serpents on them. The serpent was believed to
have some sort of divine quality about it because it could shed its skin and symbolically at least
begin its life again as if it had multiple lives or a kind of immortality to it. So it had special,
religious or symbolic significance for them. So if you're going to have an animal turn up
and eaten that's extra wise or crafty or shrewd in some way, it would be a serpent or a snake.
But I think that's connecting on to some of the mythic themes that the author interacts with
in the story. I always wondered about the serpent. I don't know. I wish I could explain more about
the serpent. And some early Christians thought the serpent was the good guy of the story. Certain
Gnostic groups thought that because he revealed secret knowledge that the humans didn't have.
They didn't realize that if they ate from the tree of knowledge, they would become like gods,
knowing good and evil. And so the Gnostics who are all into secret knowledge, of course,
they think this is great. The serpent is spilling the beans and telling them the truth of the
situation. Whereas the Creator God is trying to hide the truth from them. I don't know if the
ancient Hebrew author thought of it that way. That's actually hard for me to figure out. But
these other Christian groups thought about it in those very terms.
Especially when in the day you eat, you'll surely die. And if you take that literally,
which you've mentioned before, that we're not certain, but it might mean that from the temple
aspect you're discussing the law saying not to do this in the day you do that, this is what'll
happen. But they don't die and then they just get booted from immortality here from the tree of
life, which I found is interesting. You have two trees. Is that mythic or is there some significance
where you have divine trees and you have regular trees or something? Is there some aspect to that
in the story that comes from the temple side? Yeah, it might. The only thing I can put that
together with is this idea that certain fruit trees on temple lands were reserved for fruit to
be offered to the gods. And so they usually, I wish we had more evidence, but usually it seems
to be the case they wanted these higher status gardeners to take care of those trees. And the
lower down temple servants would take care of orchards that might produce some fruit for the
gods at sacrifices, but mostly would produce fruit to feed the temple personnel or that they could
sell to make money. The temple was a major economic enterprise as well as a religious enterprise.
So I would just add to this, this idea of the gods receiving fruit as part of their sacrifices.
There's lots of evidence for that in Babylonia. They received animals that were sacrificed,
but lots of different fruit products, especially dates. And in Genesis 3, when it says that God
is walking around in the garden looking for the man while the man and the woman are hiding,
that verb for walking around is used elsewhere in the Hebrew Bible at times of worship.
And so I'm going to try to make the argument that God's walking around means he's there in the
garden to get an offering of fruit that the humans should have ready for him. And they don't,
they've been doing other things like eating from the wrong tree. So now they're hiding for multiple
reasons. But yeah, that's the connection I would try to make there with the two trees. The tree of
life was certainly an important symbol, I think, in other cultures. The Egyptians talk about the
tree of life. And the Assyrians have artwork that seems to suggest they also had a concept of a
tree of life that was sacred in some way. So it's not an unusual or surprising to see it show up
in biblical texts. The tree of knowledge doesn't seem to have any connection to any other tree
we know about from other cultures. So that may be an invention of the author of this story.
But I do think there is something to this idea that certain fruit is reserved for the gods,
and certain fruit is not. So I think that issue stands behind what's going on in the Genesis story.
What do we do with crushing the serpent's head and the crawling on his belly, eating dust,
and enmity between your seed and her seed, this thing. How do we understand this? I just want
to make a brief comment. I've interviewed Dr. Ronald Handel, and it was a really fun interview.
He talked about the snakes. He mentioned some of the things you said in antiquity. They rejuvenate,
they shed their skin, look brand new, but also they were feared. So he thought maybe that,
and maybe you can tag along or give your own perspective, that they're stomping on these snakes
because they're under them and they're afraid of them. And it's like, don't worry, your seed will
win against them. How do you interpret this in your line of thinking?
Yeah, I would go along with that. It seems logical to me when the woman first encounters
the snake, she doesn't seem to be afraid of it. Whereas everybody knows that most people now,
when they encounter a snake, get scared of it and run away. And that was certainly the case,
I think, in the Middle East. So again, the story is one big etiology on the surface,
and it has other smaller etiologies built into it. And I think this is one of them.
It suggests, or tries to say, where the fear of snakes comes from. And it's a kind of punishment
on the snake itself. Humans will be trying to kill it all the time. And the best they can do
is bite at the human's feet. I know Christian theologians have seen a certain kind of symbolic
value there with Christ crushing the head of the serpent who might symbolize Satan.
And from a historical perspective, that might be reading too much into it. From a more symbolic,
reinterpretive perspective, there might be value there. I just haven't thought about it that much.
Yeah, I appreciate it. I just figured I'd get your two cents on that in particular.
I really hope more people actually start to look at what you're doing, get the works,
and when will you be publishing the more in-depth work that you're going to be,
that you mentioned? You've been giving us teasers, and I really want to look at this closer.
As soon as I can, I've had a lot of other things to do, and the pandemic didn't help,
and then my mother, very elderly mother, had to come live with us for a while.
I do have an article that came out about a year ago in the Journal of Biblical Literature
called Death in the Garden of Eden. People Google my name and then death in the Garden of Eden,
it should come up. In that article, I try to argue that the humans were not created as
immortal beings, they were created as mortal, and that the punishment was going to be
God just putting them to death like a regular death sentence if they ate from the Tree of Knowledge.
But I get a little bit into some of the things going on with the Neobablonian temple servants,
and I say it was very common for temple administrators to threaten their underlings,
these servants, with certain kinds of punishment, and then to change their mind and give them a
different kind of punishment later. I think the author is showing Yahweh and the Genesis story
to be a typical temple administrator who threatens his servants with one thing and then punishes them
with something else. So I think there's something, a connection there that's at work,
and I mentioned the article because it's published and it touches on some of these issues a little bit.
I need to get the book manuscript done hopefully within the next 12 months, and then it might
take another 8 to 10 to 12 months to actually come out and print after that.
I mentioned earlier Adam is Israel. Have you ever looked into this hypothesis?
A little bit. I've certainly read about it. I can understand why people would say it. He's in a
garden. He's where he's supposed to be, it seems like, and then he gets kicked out and he's a kind
of exile. So Israel is in their land, and then they do something wrong and they get kicked out into
exile. There may be something to that. I know my students at the University of Texas tend to
respond well to that idea, and so I'm happy to tell them about it, let them read scholars who
promote that idea. I'm a little less enthusiastic about it because I think the author is really
trying to say something more about human nature in general and less about Israel as a nation, although
maybe there's a little bit of illusion to Israel's nation going on there.
I'm going to have to figure out what I want to say about it by the time this book comes out,
I think, because people will want to know. But I think the real issue is human nature because
as humans, we are in many ways still like the animals. Adam and Eve were very much like animals
before they ate from the tree in the story. They're naked. They don't really realize it,
and they don't have the knowledge that would separate them from the animal kingdom.
And then they have, they gain this knowledge and they become, the story says, like gods knowing
good and evil. And I think as humans, we are this very bizarre mix of animal-like qualities
and what you might call divine-like qualities. We can go to the moon. In fact, I just heard on
the radio today, one of our space rovers for the first time reached the outer circle of the sun.
That was reported, I guess, in the news last week. But if you take away our three meals a day
and our air conditioning, we'll turn into animals pretty quickly, fighting each other for what
scraps of food we can get. So how do we, how do we think about our condition in that way? And
what do we do about it? I think it's part of what the story is trying to get at. And so it shows
that we're really dangerous now. We had our animal instincts previously. Once we get knowledge,
we're really dangerous because we can do some awful things with that knowledge. We can do some
really good things with that knowledge. So it's like nuclear power in a way, nuclear energy. It's
super dangerous, super powerful, but super dangerous. And humans, once they acquire knowledge, become
super powerful, but super dangerous. And some of the other stories, I think, show Yahweh or God
trying to keep that human power in check. Like you have with the Tower of Babel story, the humans
are building a tower to the heavens and God can't have this going on. The humans cannot be allowed
to reach the heavens. So he confuses the languages and they have to spread out and stop, stop building
their tower. So he's, he's trying to keep these humans in check to some degree. Is this the same
source? So is, is Genesis six also the same source? Because it sounds to me and I don't know if this
is the same source, but it sounds to me when I was reading a couple different scholars and one of
them that comes to mind because I've been recently engaging with some of the Christian apologists
online is Michael Heiser. Heiser takes this approach. He's very open minded to the, to the
having the throne room idea. There are many Elohim, different gods and such and the supreme is Yahweh.
But the Apkalu that we find in this other Mesopotamian literature seem to be wanting to teach
these, teach knowledge, if you can use the term, that fruit that is forbidden that's going to teach
you the knowledge of good and evil. And in that they're learning agriculture, they're learning
warfare, they're learning things that make us very dangerous like you're talking about. And of
course they're teaching these things, these sages, these Apkalu, if you can call them that, I guess,
maybe they're divine ones or whatever. And in the Genesis narrative, here you have sons of God
coming down and they're, they're definitely interacting with humans because they're having
children with them. And, and then boom, nothing but wickedness. Of course, there's a lot more to
this that I can't even touch on. Is this polemics? Is this, they get out off the hook. There's all
sorts of different things, but I think it was Ron Hendle whom you mentioned earlier that wrote an
article where I first saw this idea that the flood story in this source that we're talking about,
the J source or the Yahwist source was brought onto the earth by God partly to stop the wickedness
that was generated by these demigods that were birthed by the human women who had mated with the
gods. So I think, of course, this is a mythic representation of some, well, every ancient
culture has to have a flood story. So for the Yahwist, this is how he gets to his flood story.
He has the gods mating with human women and producing offspring that have too much power.
So yeah, I think that's a good point. I think, like you said, you have this intermixing of
species and then you have utter wickedness. And part of Genesis six is from this source,
not all of it. Other parts of it are from the priestly source. But yeah, the flood is in part
a check on this human power that runs amok once this interspecies mating happens.
There's so many things I'm certain that you and I could go into. One last comment, if I may, on
the Adam is Israel hypothesis is I personally saw it as, sure, I see elements of exile potentially
but it's very anachronistic in my opinion. Who are the authors? What are they writing? Of course,
they're experiencing exile. So when you formulate a mythology that is going to talk about your
origins, they're not secretly the way I've understood this and I could be straw manning
the position and I don't mean to is that it sounded to me the people I talked to, they think
this is a secret story. This whole Genesis practically one through 11. Now they I don't
know if they divide it up into different sources, but the point is they act like it's all a secret
story of Israel going through its birth as a nation at Mount Sinai. Notice there's so many
already assumptions here, but instead of it being Abrahamic Covenant, it's Mount Sinai,
it's the Mosaic Covenant, and they're exiled out of the land and there's this constant
issue here. The flood is local, so they find ways to like, you know, that's how they interpret it
and they make it all about a secret story about later Israel's history that we see
throughout some of the later literature. That's the way they understood it and I thought
what a better way to explain this is this is a mythology of origins of man explaining our
creation of why we're here, why do we die, all of that stuff, generally kind of a universalistic
approach and we find elements of the literature from the people who are writing this. It's like
putting their thumbprint. Like, if I write a story, you're going to go, oh, Derek wrote that. Derek
definitely wrote that. We can tell because he kept saying y'all. He's from the south, you know,
or something. It's kind of like that in their motif, their way of writing how they're constantly
next out. I don't know though. I could be wrong. What are your thoughts? That sounds very reasonable
to me. I agree that it's a kind of universalist mythology about why we're here and how we got here
and what we're doing because initially I said it's this big etiology about agriculture
and so the author can't tell the story any other way. Eventually the man has to leave the orchard
and start doing agriculture and eventually he has to eat from the tree of knowledge because we
know humans have a kind of knowledge that separates us from animals. So you know the story is going
to end up there. Of course he's going to have to leave the garden at some point and that's where
he's supposed to be ultimately. He's supposed to be outside the garden working the ground.
So if you compare him to Israel, Israel's not supposed to be in exile necessarily like the man
is. So there are some disconnects and I think like I said I would agree with you that it's
universal to begin with and I like your analogy to a thumbprint because these people probably
are living in exile or have at least experienced it. You're going to see elements of that showing
up in the story because that's how they look at the world now given the experiences that they've had.
Let me just throw this in there. You mentioned dealing with Christian apologists. I am Christian.
I go to church on a regular basis and I find great meaning and value in the Bible but I don't,
for me at least, I don't necessarily need to have a lot of these stories or any of these stories in
Genesis be historical in some sense. I think they're getting at bigger truths that were important
for those people at that time and for me scripture is foundational in terms of how I look at the
world and how I understand human nature and I think people in general have a very selfish streak in
them and I think this author recognized that and to some extent is trying to explain why we have
this selfish streak that we can't seem to get rid of. Am I as generous as I would like to be? No.
And I feel it around this time at Christmas time where everyone's asking me for money.
I'm like, pardon me, wants to give you some money and pardon me, really doesn't
because I want to spend it on myself. So I don't know what Christian apologists are saying about
this part of Genesis. That's not part of my world for whatever reason but I don't think it needs to
be overdone on their part because I think something else is going on. I think that if there's a valuable
lesson I've learned and it's already something I've been practicing but it solidifies is to find
that middle ground. A value literature, no matter where it's from, if it teaches a wisdom that we
all know is a good practical application type thing we should apply, I don't care. The golden
rule, right? We might find this in outside literature that is not within the New Testament
yet it seems to be a teaching Jesus taught, right? And you go, oh, there are some people who go,
it's true because Jesus said it and it's like, well, hold on, let's, yeah, it's good what he said
but it's also good because we all see that this is something that we should practice as humans.
So when you get to Genesis and you go, did it literally historically happen exactly
verbatim what it's saying and the way I've understood it? Some people have to have that,
it seems. They just can't imagine with the way they have their whole paradigm, it's a house of
cards. So they got to have their cards up or else the whole thing falls in their head. For me,
I value this literature. I'm not a Christian anymore, but that doesn't mean I haven't come to
appreciate this literature for more of what it actually is rather than trying to fit this really
harmful, literalistic, non-progressive worldview around it where the world has to be 7000,
all science is lying and then you get off into these conspiracies where you're not sending your
children to the hospital because you're afraid some out there thing in your head. I'm going to
radical position here when I say that. So I just want to say that as a non-Christian, I value it
and I want others to as well for what it is and it's valuable literature. Right, and I don't
think the authors ever intended it for it to be read as super literal in the way a lot of people
do and I don't know, some of that has to do with how we think about knowledge and
certain ways of understanding where knowledge comes from, but you're right,
certain people have to have it be historical or it's value less for them and I think that's
unfortunate. It is unfortunate, but this is why I'm trying to educate more people. I have nothing
against people who are Christian or believers or anything like that even though I'm a skeptic.
I am openly against harmful fundamentalism. That is because I came from it and I've grown
to fall in love with these things. Reading scholars such as yourself and Handel and the list goes on
Mark Smith, which I'll be interviewing him in February. I'm excited to do that as well.
Yeah, I love reading all of your literature because it makes me realize these weren't dummies,
number one. These were very sophisticated authors who knew what they were doing, especially by the
time you get to a redactor who's trying to fit some of these stories that don't necessarily go
together. It's a he, obviously. I'd be shocked to find out a female redactor was involved,
but yeah, I love learning our past and our history and so Dr. Wells, if I could,
what do you have upcoming? Let's plug you on our way out and what do you have coming up?
Well, apart from this book project, I'm working on with four other scholars on the
Erdman's Handbook of the Pentateuch, but that'll be a couple years probably in coming out.
And then my big long-term project is working on litigation documents. I'm still interested in
this question of justice and the legal system and how they handled legal disputes and how they
tried to decide what they thought was right and fair. So I'm gathering trial records from lots
of different time periods from the ancient Middle East and trying to record their linguistic
features and their legal features in a big database that hopefully I can make available
to people so they can search it, but at least I'm hoping at least one book will come out of that
project, but I've been interested in litigation since my dissertation, so that's been a very
long-term project I'm working on. Oh, I should plug this. Let's see, if you search for me and
this phrase, on the beds of a woman, don't put all that in quotes, Bruce Wells on the beds of a
woman. There's an article where I look at the texts in Leviticus on same-sex relations between
men, and I give what I think is a very different view of those, and I basically say they're arguing
that if you're a man you shouldn't have sex with another married man, because the phrase
is you shall not have sex with a man on the beds of a woman, which has been translated usually,
you shall not have sex with a man as one lies with a woman. So several people have told me
they liked that article, it came out in a collection of essays I have around here somewhere anyway.
So if you go look for that, that'll be interesting to people as well, I think.
I think so too. I'll try and search it and put it in the description of the video when I go to
launch it so they don't have to search, make their job a little easier. Yeah, this reminded me,
in a sense, of eating Dershowitz. He has something, I don't know if this is the exact
same location that you're dealing with, but I suspect it's in that area. Yeah, it's the same
texts. We have a slightly different take, but we both sort of end up making the same conclusion
that it wasn't a total ban on male same-sex relations initially, but later it came to be read that way.
Interesting, yeah. Times change things, and we have clear implications of that within the law,
Israelites could own their own people, and then eventually that's banned, and depending on where
you're looking at in the law. So you're also, I believe you were the professor for Jay Caballera,
which I've had on the channel as well, Jay's a good friend and lawyer. So if I'm ever in trouble,
down in Texas, I know who to call. Yes, I call, I'm calling Jay as well. Yeah. And Jay, if you're
listening, get cracking on your dissertation. You have another chapter to finish. Jay, Jay,
what are you going to do here? Thank you so much, Dr. Bruce Wells, ladies and gentlemen,
the Garden of Eden. There's a lot more than what meets the eye, and many scholars are jabbing back
and forth disputing this issue all the time. Go check out his works, get up to speed on the arguments,
and check out what's going on there as I continue to do so here at MythVision. Thank you, Dr. Wells.
Thank you, Derek. And never forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
