We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Today, we have Russell Gamirkin joining us, and we're doing a series on his book,
Barossus and Genesis, Manito and Exodus, and of course, it's such a long title,
but let me get us started here.
Russell Gamirkin is an author.
He's the author of Barossus and Genesis, Manito and Exodus,
Hellenistic histories and the date of the Pentateuch,
and Plato in the creation of the Hebrew Bible.
He's working on another book, and what is the title of that book?
And welcome to MythVision.
The title of that book is Plato's Tamaeus and the biblical creation account.
That's the short version.
That's what I was going to ask you.
I was going to go, yeah, there's more to that, but yeah.
It's dealing with Genesis 1 through 11, which is also the topic today,
and it details how the seven days of creation, that whole sequence is basically taken from
Plato's book on the origins of the uterus called Tamaeus, and also Genesis 2 through 3,
where another God called Yahweh is wandering around the garden and doing things.
That also comes from Tamaeus, so they are really two separate creation accounts.
It's Tamaeus had his divided into two parts also with the creator of the cosmos,
and then these dinky little terrestrial gods who created mortal life and things like that.
So it's going to be really groundbreaking and fun, and it goes beyond what I wrote in
Borosis and Genesis, but I think Borosis and Genesis still holds up.
This will be an interesting show, I think a pivotal point in our, if you will, in this series
of videos based on your book, Borosis and Genesis, Minnitho and Exodus, because we're going to get
a sneak peek into this upcoming book as well as delve with the existing content you've already
created, and we're going to be dealing with the chapter specifically, Borosis and Genesis.
Are you interested? I have to ask you guys a question. Are you interested in the dating of
the Hebrew Bible? Most scholars believe the Hebrew Bible was constructed hundreds of years
before the Septuagint, sometime around Ezra or Josiah using historiography and historiography
reasoning, and believe it was made up of four sources, J, E, P, and D. This is called the
Documentary Hypothesis, but what if the Hebrew Bible wasn't as old as we suppose? In this series,
Russell Gamerican will give us a case where the Hebrew Bible was developed, so to speak,
five minutes before the Septuagint Greek translation was written in Alexandria.
Could the Hebrew Bible be a Hellenistic work and are there problems with the Documentary Hypothesis?
We will wrestle with this in Borosis and Genesis, Minnitho and Exodus. How do we begin this? Because
there seems to be most people who are critical scholars will say, look, we see that there's a
backdrop to the Mesopotamian, the Babylonian myths, and Genesis is using that backdrop,
and then we can go from there. So if you would like to comment on that, then we can move forward
into details that I think are interesting and notes that I took while reading that we can cover.
Certainly. Well, scholars have noted for a long time that the early chapters just use
materials that are Babylonian or Sumerian or from ancient Mesopotamia. There's the flood story,
there's the 10 generations before the flood. Some people have said the creation account was
based on a new Malish, so there's a strong case for Babylonian influence. But the question is
when, when did these Babylonian sources come to the attention of the authors of the biblical
material? Now, the prevailing paradigm has said that the whole Pentateuch, the first five books of
the Bible are relatively ancient, written during the monarchy and the Babylonian period and the
Persian period, basically when Jude was within the ancient nearies, per se. I hold that it was
written later after Alexander the Great took over the east, conquered, and so it's a paradox that
there's these ancient Babylonian sources used in Genesis and yet they might date to the Greek
Hellenistic period. And the reason why that's possible is because there was an author named
Borosis, who was a Babylon priest in the Temple of Marduk, and he wrote around 280 BC, that's just
10 years before the Septuagint translation, and he wrote a book called The Babyloniaca or, you
know, the history of Babylon. And he brought all these cuneiform traditions to the attention of
the wider Greek world, including the flood story, creation story. All of this became available
in Greek to arcade in the whole Mediterranean world during the Hellenistic era. So you have these
Babylonian sources, but they were published way late after the time of Alexander the Great.
And so this is the dispute in this chapter that you go into, issues that we find, and it goes down
to some details, like which versions, there's different versions of the flood myths from Mesopotamians,
some date later, like you said, and finding out where they're pulling their source from. The Bible
is going to indicate, often, what you're suggesting, a dating mechanism in which we could say there's no
way, for example, and this is one of the later notes that we get into, there's parts of the Tower
Babel myth that come from something that we know was written by 600. We have no evidence of it before
that. So how can we have a ninth and tenth century source claiming that the biblical authors are
writing Genesis using this narrative when we know that it's written at 600? So at least it needs to
be later than that, and this is the minimalist approach. So that's just one example. We'll actually
get into that example as we go on. I think I'll start us off with number one. Ladies and gentlemen,
please bear with me, because this is such a broad topic. It's difficult for me to just,
I could throw basic questions out there, but I want to give you details that I have excerpts from
his book that I'll read, and I'll try to be as quick with brevity so that we can have Russell
do the discussing. Only Genesis and Borosis also mentioned the creation of animals.
Enuma Elish omitted this detail. Enuma Elish would be old, very old. An interesting feature of the
Genesis account is that all created animal life reproduced after its own kind. This was emphasized
in the point of repetition. This may represent a specific polemic against the Mesopotamian tradition
that the earliest animals included monsters of a composite nature,
man birds, man goats, man horses, man fish, dog horses, and many other amazing creatures
that had the appearance of two different animals combined. These composite creatures figured
prominently in Borosis, in Enuma Elish, and in the Mesopotamian sculpture. If the Genesis creation
of animals reproducing after their kind was a polemic against Mesopotamian literature,
this suggests an awareness of Borosis by the author of Genesis 1-11. Would you be interested
in commenting on this? I really find these composite creatures, which are kind of like
centaurs that are half human and half horse. I find them fascinating. You should see my waist down.
No, I shouldn't. Please, I'm just kidding. I don't even want to think about it.
I have horse life. That's what I'm trying to say.
That's what I hear. The Babylonian creation myths are filled with all sorts of fantastical
creatures and half of this, half of that. Battles between Marduk and Tiamet, who was goddess of
chaos. Marduk slew her and used her body to create the heaven and earth. He split it into
propped it up with seashells and then we had the universe. That's the kind of
story quality that these Mesopotamian myths have. Borosis kind of toned all that down
because he was aiming for a more sophisticated, urbane, cosmopolitan educated Greek world. He
didn't really much these strange and exotic creatures. The creation account resembles
Borosis more in that respect. Borosis was halfway between the Babylonians and the Greeks.
Now, as far as reproducing after their kind, I have since discovered that this was also a theme
in Plato's Timaeus. So there may be a more direct Timaeus link than Borosis, but certainly
this does not follow these ancient, exotic Mesopotamian creation myth stories. So I guess
that's my comment for the moment. Interesting. All right. Second comment I'd like to make,
and these are excerpts from your book. Some of this stuff is notes for me. You can tell the
difference usually. According to Genesis 2, 2 through 3, after the creation of the universe in
six days, God rested from his labors on the seventh day, the Sabbath. It is widely believed that this
Sabbath of the gods was dependent on Mesopotamian traditions. According to the Atrahasis epic,
after the universe was created, the gods had to do all the manual work, digging canals and
raising crops. The labor of the gods was so excessive that they were ready to revolt until
Inki or Marduk and Enuma-Leish created humans to bear the load of the gods. Once primeval
humans were created and the toil of the gods was imposed on them, the gods could be at leisure.
In Genesis 2, 15, humans were created to tend to God's garden in Eden in accordance to Mesopotamian
ideas. Given Borosus's extensive excerpts from Enuma-Leish and his probable knowledge of a flood
story related to the Atrahasis epic, it is likely that he also explained the purpose
of humanity's creation as giving the gods rest from their labors in a passage not preserved by
Alexander Paul, Paulahistor. Anyway, I think it's interesting just to make point that the people
who, there's a guy who's missed, I guess a lot of experts say, and you probably know who this is,
he butchers the Sumerian and the Arcadian text to make it say that these aliens came to Earth,
created humans to dig for gold for them and stuff. You know what I'm talking about, right?
Is this Sitchin? Yes. But I don't want to get lost.
Yeah, I just figure I'd say like this is real scholarship we're talking about here
and why the gods made humans. The gods used to have to work their butts off and they were
getting sick of it. So they made humans to tend to the earth and the labors of what the gods once
did. This sounds just like Adam, you know, tending the Garden of Eden. And so would you comment on
this some? Yeah, there may be some Mesopotamian influence there. Adam evidently didn't have to
work very hard though because when he was very cursed then he had to go out and toil with the
sweat of his brow and there were thorns that grew up and it was agricultural became much more
difficult. There is an echo of Mesopotamian myths there. Adam was initially he was taken from land
of Eden outside the garden. Evidently the garden itself was a pleasure pass of fruit trees and
wonderful things and outside was where the arable agricultural land was.
But they would till the ground and he was taken from there and put in the garden and tend to
the fruit trees and things like that. So yeah, he was God's worker or subservient and there's
definitely some echoes of Mesopotamia there. Do you find any Tamaeus connections to the Garden of
Eden or not really not in that particular source? Yeah, there's just quite a bit actually. Well,
not so much Tamaeus, but Tamaeus had a sequel. First there was Tamaeus, which was a conversation
between Socrates, an Italian cosmographer, an astronomer named Tamaeus, and another individual
named Critius. Well, the whole of this conversation was Critius wanted to tell this marvelous tale of
the continent of Atlantis and how the ancient Athenians
battled with Atlantis and conquered them and, you know, it's this glorious deed in ancient times.
So as a prequel, Socrates asked Tamaeus, could you like cover where the universe came from
and the gods, you know, let's get that out of the way first. And then that'll kind of set the stage for
the tale in Critius. So anyway, moving forward to Critius and the story of Atlantis. Well,
Atlantis was a paradise with lush trees and temples and streams. It's pretty evident that the
description of the Garden of Eden came from Plato's book called Critius. Yeah, I had a question
actually recently where someone asked me, can you ask Dr. Price about connections to Atlantis
and Genesis? So you're actually going to be the guy we need to go to about this particular subject
matter. And I'll make a hell of a thumbnail for that kind of show. So thank you for answering that.
This is my notes reading about Tiamat and Marduk. I think it's interesting to point out
Tiamat equals the moon. Marduk equals the sun. The moon ruled the night and the sun ruled the day.
This is a common trope, of course, among different mythologies, Egyptian mythology, you know, various
mythologies. However, seeing they have utilized Mesopotamian mythology as a polemic against
Mesopotamian mythology, but also invoking their myth to their own creation narrative.
I'd like to hear you comment on that, Tiamat and Marduk, with the Mesopotamian connections. But
also, if you have any added sneak peeks, I'm all ears. So you have the story of the battle of
Tiamat and Marduk. Tiamat was this dragon-like, watery, chaotic creature in primordial times.
And Marduk was the new god, the new god in town. He was, he decided that he wanted to become
the leader of the gods, the council of the gods elected him and led this battle against Tiamat.
So that was the original creation myth of the Anuma Elish, where Marduk created, defeated
Tiamat, and constructed out of her corpse. The idea is that Marduk's son, and Tiamat was
a watery darkness, that is kind of an allegorical interpretation
that Borosis imposed on the original story. There are some Babylonian references to Marduk as
light, or the sun, or things like that. But he went full on allegorical, and he said that when this
bizarre creation story says that Marduk slew Tiamat, what that meant was that it's really
talking about how the world began in darkness and chaos and water, and how the light came in
and the darkness. So he took this myth and turned it into a Greek cosmology. He spruced it up with
science by means of his allegorical method. But now what's interesting is, in doing so,
he said that the Babylonians had the world start out in darkness and water. Genesis 1 verse 2
was said that the earth was without form and void, and darkness covered the face of the deep.
So you have the darkness and the watery oceans in Genesis 1 verse 2. In Borosis you have
Tiamat being water and darkness. But that was not in the original Enuma Elish. So
the version that Borosis had is actually closer to Genesis than the Cuneiform original.
Now this has really messed with Calvars, you know, because
you know, what does this resemble, Genesis 1 verse 2 so much? Well, they said, well,
there's only one conceivable explanation. This is a Jewish interpolation into Borosis,
like Borosis's history of Babylon. And somehow the Jews got a hold of it and they made some
changes here and there. And that's the only version that came down to Alexander Pauli
history and that's the type we have today. You know, they said it had to have happened that way
because we know the Enuma Elish didn't have darkness and water. This sounds like Genesis.
We know that Genesis is really old. He's way before Borosis. So Borosis must be
indirectly utilizing Genesis by means of these Jewish editors, these redactors,
which is all a bunch of nonsense. And it's based on the idea that Genesis is this ancient
Near Eastern text. Instead of being written after the time of Borosis, in which case,
there's no problem. These guys were reading Borosis. They thought darkness and water and
they used it. They went with it. No problem at all. So it's a matter of, it's one of the
good chronological clues that the book of Genesis is a lot younger than people imagine. It's
younger than 280 BC. That's our earliest. So this is an interesting part to mention prior
to moving to our next issue. What we have is early church fathers actually point out this
very thing and they say Borosis. They're known for this. So did Josephus, the Jewish Apologist,
the Christian Apologist. Borosis borrowed from Genesis, which then makes Genesis older than
Borosis, which is why a lot of this stuff looks like it. Can you make a quick comment on church
fathers that might have done this and their reasoning behind it? Yeah. And it's any time that
the Bible resembled other documents, whether Monotho or Borosis or Plato. Well, you know,
Moses, he wrote the first five books of Moses in 1450 BC. And that's older than Plato and Monotho
and Borosis and all the rest, you know, according to Ephesus and the church fathers and everyone who
bought into the kind of fundamentalist reading Bible that everyone adopted back then. So
clearly Borosis must have copied from Genesis if there are passages in the two that are so
closely related. And that's something very common. You see that argument used over and over again.
Nobody back then imagined that the books, the biblical books were as young as they accepted
biblical claims about the authors and dates of the biblical texts. And this wasn't just the Jews.
This was Greeks and Romans, pagans, everybody just kind of bought into the idea that the Bible,
and especially the books of Moses were really ancient. And they made their inferences from there.
Now we finally know better. We know that Genesis was a young book, you know, the Pentateuch borrowed
on all sorts of older Greek and Babylonian and Egyptian texts. So it's a new paradigm. It's a
new way of looking at things. Okay, okay. Can you comment? And by the way, while I'm doing this,
I'm actually trying to kind of educate people who may not know this stuff that well. I know I didn't
and even reading your book, I learned so much. So I had picked up on this. The Garden of Eden,
you wrote, and this is a note, of course, you cover a lot more on this in your book,
being a polemic against the Sumerian flood story, arts of civilization idea. Can you go into detail
of what's going on here with the teaching the arts and the Apkalu, the sages, and what's going on,
the polemic that's being here, if you will, between these two accounts, or more than two accounts,
if it depends on where you want to say they got their sources. And also, is there any connection
to the Greeks in this? Yes, the both the Greeks and the Mesopotamians had their own, I guess you
could say competing stories about the origins of human knowledge, invention of all types.
And in the Greek world, the most famous is that of Prometheus. Prometheus was a Titan,
he was one of the gods. Humans were so miserable, naked, pathetic creatures, living in caves,
defenseless. So he had pity on these poor humans, and he stole fire from Zeus and gave it to the
humans. He started selling us building and fabrics, and all the arts of civilization came from Prometheus.
And as a reward, Zeus had him crucified, nailed, or chained to the rocks of Mount Caucasus for
about a thousand years, because he didn't want humans getting ahold of divine knowledge. And he
took it quite personally. Now, in the Babylonian world, seven creatures called Apkalu, who were
half human and half fish. There's lots of pictures of them, statues and inscriptions,
the upper half of their body is human, and they have kind of a fish head on top. And then the lower
part is a fish with scales and fins. And it's one of those composite creatures we're talking about.
They taught humanity all the arts of civilization, because very similar to the Greeks, humans were
helpless without this divine knowledge. And the first one, well, first off, these seven Apkalu,
a lot of people have compared them to the first seven generations in Genesis that ended with
Enoch, the seventh who has been compared to the last seven famous Apkalu. But the first of the
Apkalu was named Oannis in Borosis, Oannidapa in other sources. And he is the one who taught the
very first humans about kingship and building cities and also some technology. And in a lot of
ways, this creature, this Apkalu, sent from above. He very much resembles the serpent in Genesis,
who brings knowledge to humans. And I talked about that a bit in my chapter on Borosis here.
I have, let me read you some. I hope your voice holds out. It always does this. It's like the curse
of animals. No, me too. Me too. Every time. It is. It is such a curse. In fact, we're in the Genesis
narrative. Obviously, it's a curse right now. He's laboring to keep his voice. So Adam and Eve,
goddess, courtesan, if you will, and inkidu. I want to read something from his book for everybody
that I find interesting. And then maybe you make a comment and we'll keep moving because there's a
lot of stuff that is just so fascinating people should read, even if they don't, let's say, conclude
your dating, even though that's your purpose. If you haven't read these stories or you don't know
about these parallels, this is an absolutely wonderful book to do this. So the parallels
between inkidu and Adam, the courtesan and Eve. Am I saying that right, courtesan?
No. Okay. They have long been noted. The subsequent adventures of Gilgamesh and inkidu slaying the monster
humbaba, guardian of the forest of Lebanon, the great bull of heaven and the lions of the other
wild animals as well, eventually migrated to the Greek world as the labors of Hercules.
Gilgamesh and inkidu soon became a nuisance to the gods by killing their monsters,
chopping down the gods' cedars in Lebanon and so forth. Here we have a probable parallel in Genesis
6-2-5 which speaks of the sons of God cohabiting with the daughters of men and the troublesome
violence of their gigantic offspring. It was therefore decreed that one of them should die
despite their being offspring of the gods. The gods chose between Gilgamesh and inkidu.
Inkidu fell tragically ill and died. The sequel closely parallels the story of Cain and Abel.
Gilgamesh was so saddened by the death of his brother inkidu and distraught at the idea of his
own mortality, he became a wanderer walking from the land to land or from land to land, clad in his
lion skin like Hercules and exile from thieves. In one passage of the Gilgamesh epic, a barmaid
locked the doors to keep Gilgamesh out, fearing from his strange appearance and expression
that he was a murderer. It is conceivable that in some earlier version of the story,
Gilgamesh slew inkidu and for this reason went into exile. All this was echoed in the biblical
account of Cain's wandering from the murder of Abel. At the end of his wanderings in the east,
Gilgamesh reached the waters at the ends of the world, the Persian Gulf, and commissioned a boat
to take him to the island of Paradise at the mouth of the rivers to seek out the secret of
immortality. There, Gilgamesh found Utnapishtim and his wife, the heroes of the flood, living in
Paradise, immortal. They told him the story of the deluge, the flood, and their survival in the
ark and their later translation to Paradise. They promised to share with him the secret of
immortality if he could stay awake for seven days, but notice the seven here again. But Gilgamesh
fell into a deep sleep, felling the test. So Gilgamesh was sent away from Paradise, but first
was given the plant of life, which if he ate would give him immortality. But before he had a chance
to consume it, a snake slithered into the end and ate the plant of life. Stilling the gift of
immortality, the ancients believed that snakes were immortal. Reborn each time they shed their
skin. That was an interesting note I put in there. So Gilgamesh was forever barred from Paradise and
lost his chance to live forever. The parallels with the story of the Garden of Eden, the Tree of
Life, and Expulsion from Paradise are well known. Care to comment? Well, I love studying
literatures from different societies. These were some really fascinating comparisons with
Mesopotamian myths. And I do the same with the Greeks. I've done the same with the Egyptians,
but there's not much there. Most of the biblical material seemed to come from Mesopotamia or from
Greece. Yeah, I think that some of this plot came from the Gilgamesh epic, the rivalries between
Gilgamesh and Enkidu. There were actually other traditions that seemed to show that the whole
line from Adam down to Noah may have been giant, may have been semi-divine creatures. That's in
the Pseudepigrafer, and so we won't really get into that. That's a book down the line from me,
where I deal with some of the Enoch tradition. Take a look at Genesis 1 through 11 from that
perspective. It's really important to examine all the comparative data from all the potentially
influencing civilizations on the biblical texts, not to assume that it's only Mesopotamian,
or that it's only really ancient. It's really a detective story. Yeah, my analysis with Cain
Enable. That was fun to research. I think I noticed a few things that no one else have.
It hasn't really been picked up by the literature, but I'm glad that you enjoyed it.
I always enjoy that kind of stuff, like finding out, like, is there a source previous? We're
going to get into the Tower of Babel. I was shocked to even hear the poem that you describe in there.
I've never, I've asked plenty of scholars that I've interviewed so far, and they just don't
know where that might have origin, like the potential origin for such a tradition.
But we're going to get into that. Let's talk about the serpent, the slippery little sneaky guy
who's equated with the devil in Christian lore. However, the serpent in its origin, just like
Borosis looking at his origin myths of the Mesopotamians, the Sumerians, if you will,
they, he allegorizes a lot of things. So we're trying to get to the source of where
maybe the polemics are coming from. And what's the point here? So the serpent, a very interesting
example of polemics and Genesis, not previously noted by those investigating Mesopotamian influences
on Genesis one to 11, that's chapters one to 11, was the transformation of the Akkulu oanus.
Am I saying that, right? Yeah, yeah. Oannis, Oannis, or? Right. Oannis. Yeah. Oannis.
Oannis, Oannidop, I'll start saying. Yeah. Okay. Of the Akkulu oanus into the serpent of the Garden
of Eden, the serpent of Genesis three was very unusual, an unusual creature. The serpent had
the capability of speech carried on conversations with humans. He was the wisest of all the animals
and the agent by which primitive humans acquired the knowledge of the gods. Apparently the sermon,
serpent, initially had legs and could walk. For at Genesis 314, God's curse on the serpent was
that he would henceforth crawl on his belly in the dust. The parallels with the Akkulu oanus
are evident. Oannis, who was half human and half fish, could, like the serpent of Genesis,
walk and speak. So would you like to comment on that? Yeah. Oannis, the half fish, half human,
is an interesting character. After I wrote Barossus in SS though, I noted another
interesting parallel to Babylonia and Assyria. There's a creature that's depicted all over the
front gates and walls of the palace at Nineveh, I believe, and it is half dragon,
sort of serpent, and it's got horns, and it has legs. It's kind of a walking serpent. It's possible
that imagery may have also influenced the biblical account. There's also a little bit of an echo of
Timaeus though, Plato's Timaeus, when he described the serpent as the lowest of all creatures
because they didn't have legs and they had to wiggle on the ground. So in Plato's myth,
he said that if you're a human and you were really, really good, then your soul could go up into this
earth. But if you were bad, then you would be reincarnated in another life form, a lower life
form such as women, he was a bit of a misogynist, or else a little bit below that were birds or
animals with legs or fishes who were, they didn't even have legs, they were down in the water,
you know, clams were below them, but really the lowest were these serpents because they
they didn't have any legs. You could get demoted to be being one of these legless serpents in
Plato's scheme. So there could be an echo of Plato there also, especially since he also
he also talked about eating the fruit of the tree as a sexual metaphor. So there's a couple specific
echoes in Genesis two through three from Plato's demands. That's very interesting. You say that I
want to rabbithrall off my notes here because I think it's always more usual. It's more unique
whenever sometimes I just go with what I feel and not just notes. In the older Mesopotamian
literature, it's clearly indicating sexual knowledge that is making them wise. However,
it doesn't equate it with eating of a fruit. It doesn't say that if I'm not mistaken,
correct me if I'm wrong. So this is where Tameis or Greek source would find its way in,
mingling with an older Mesopotamian source, correct? Yes. So probably what you have
in the writing of Genesis one through eleven, which is a kind of a sub document within Genesis,
you have some people who educated in the Greek classics. They're educated in Plato,
but they may have been Babylonians who were writing this material. Now, when I say they were
Babylonians, that's going to maybe shock some of the viewers because everyone says, well,
the authors of the book of Moses were Jewish, right? Well, first off, not necessarily because
the books of Moses talk about 12 tribes of Israel. 10 of them are from northern Israel,
what we would call Samaria. And only one of them was Judah, the Jews. So there's a lot of evidence
that the Samaritans had a large role in writing the books of Moses. Add to that the fact that
in around 720 BC, Samaria was conquered by the Assyrians, became an Assyrian province,
and they deported all the educated ruling elites out of Samaria. And they brought in
a bunch of rebellious Babylonians in their place. So Samaria became a Babylonian colony.
And these were educated ruling elites. There were the smartest ruling class
people brought into the Assyrian province. Well, what happened to them? Did they just disappear?
Did they evaporate? Scholars say, well, they entered with the local Israelites and disappeared
No, they didn't. Every educated group, every ruling group in history, they try and preserve themselves,
preserve their traditions, because that's what gives them the edge, the power. So you have this
Babylonian community or stratum of Samaritan elites persisted clear down through the Babylonian
period, the Persian period, and into the Hellenistic period. And these were the smartest people,
they were the most literate people, and they helped write the books of Moses, among other parts of
the Bible. So that's why you have this really incredible Babylonian outlook to Genesis. Not
only in these first 11 chapters, where you have lots of Babylonian myths, and where the authors
loved the Babylonic Barossus, that was like the favorite book. But then you later have Abraham,
who comes from Babylonia, really? The ancestors, the Jews, didn't come from Judea. They didn't come
from the land of Israel or Canaan. They came from Babylonia. Why would you say that if your
people had lived there forever? Well, these were actual Babylonians, they did come from Babylon.
They came and colonized parts of the area, and they wrote their national history in Judea
Genesis. So that's why you get a lot of this Babylonian material in Genesis,
and that's kind of a new paradigm for who are these biblical authors. First off,
not necessarily Jews, a lot of it probably Samaritan, and when you're talking Samaritan,
you're talking Babylonian. This is good because we're going to get into something you mentioned
in this chapter about this, and someone who's written on this topic. So let's detour for a
second, and we're coming back in a sense as we jab in a new material that you discussed in this
Sumerian Kings list. Genesis 5, 3-32, listed 10 generations of patriarchs before the flood,
ending with Noah, the pre-deluge generations before the flood, where extraordinary long
lives suggesting comparison with the 10 kings before the flood in Borosis. Now, the interesting
thing you mentioned, and I guess it'll be important to jab at, most people don't realize that in the
10 king list of Borosis, which is a later, you know, he is once again, we're talking a Babylonian
priest who's translating the Akkadian, potentially other Sumerian languages into the Greek language,
he lists 10 kings, and what we have is 10 patriarchs in the Bible, but the older versions of this don't
necessarily have 10 kings. There's nine, and there's eight, and there's different numbers that don't
really come to this 10 thing, which kind of indicates, is Borosis the source? Can you explain
the Kings list's connection to Borosis and not the older Sumerian list just briefly?
10 kings in Borosis before the flood, who they lived tens of thousands of years long,
they were really, really long lived. That's historically accurate, right? Now I'm just kidding.
That is, it's in a cuneiform document that's practically contemporary,
is better documented than other documents I could talk about. So, yeah, so they noted the
striking resemblance, and they noted that from Borosis before they started to find the originals
behind Borosis, this Sumerian king list. Now this is Sumer, Sumeria, with a U, it's not Sumeria,
the northern kingdom, just for the viewers. Sumer is where civilization began. It was
in existence before Babylonia, before Assyria, they had their own language, they had all sorts
traditions, and they had this tradition about how there were 10 kings before the flood,
and they lived a long time. So biblical scholars said, wow, the same tradition here,
but then the cuneiform originals started showing up, and there were only seven kings. No, there were
eight. No, there were nine. You know, it's only when you come down to Borosis that there's 10.
So it could be a little bit earlier than that, because he was working with some sort of source,
but the other one, six or seven hundred BC, I believe, they had the wrong number of kings.
Now there's another striking parallel. The seventh of these 10 kings was a king named
Enmer Deronchi, and he was a very special individual because he got to heaven. Basically,
he went before the gods in heaven, and they gave him divine wisdom. He became the first
diviner. He was instructed by some of those Akkalu that we were talking about. A lot of the Assyrian
and Babylonian wisdom literature, scholarly literature, they say traces back to this number
seven guy, Enmer Deronchi. Well, he's in the exact same position as Enoch in the seven out of 10
patriarchs before the flood, and you'll recall Enoch also related to the presence of God. He
walked with God in the pseudepigraph especially. They talked about him receiving all these divine
secrets and traditions. The Enoch that was as a gift to him, all sorts of prophecies. So you have
number seven was this wise figure who was went to the gods, and so that's a very, very striking
parallel that's in Borosis. He's not number seven in some of those earlier lists. So all of this
shows that, yeah, it's a very ancient Christian, the Sumerian king list. It's not even written in
Cadian. It's written in Sumerian. So where did the Jews or Samaritans get a hold of this
esoteric cuneiform text that was only found in temple libraries guarded by Babylonian priests?
Where did they get it? How did they learn how to read cuneiform? And okay, fine. They can read
cuneiform. They can read a Cadian. Fine. We'll give them that ridiculousness. How did they learn
Sumerian exactly, which was a dead language that had not been spoken for a thousand years?
And that only the super scholarly Babylonians educated elites knew how to read that? You
know just exactly how do these Jews get a hold of this strange ancient text in a dead language and
decide, hey, I'm going to copy that into my version of Genesis. It doesn't make any sense. But what
doesn't make sense, it got translated into Greek. It's in this Greek book, Borosis, in 280 BC.
Everybody read Greek then. Certainly all the ruling class people did. Just Greek with
the Ptolemy's or the Seleucids or whoever is ruling Judea or Samaria at the time. So it was
very accessible. It was written in Greek and that's where they got it from. That's part of the argument
I have in my Borosis book. Let me take a devil's advocate jab to see what you have to say.
From what I understand, Babylonia obviously conquered and ruled the Jews, which is Israel,
if you will. And I don't mean in the strange northern kingdom sense, so to speak. But regardless,
we know they conquered Judea at least. And when did that happen? We're talking
in 586 BC. 586 is when Nebuchadnezzar actually conquered Judea twice. But in 586 is when
he destroyed the temple and took the royal family and priest captive. And that was the
definitive end of the kingdom of Judah. So that's when it happened.
Wouldn't it be fair to say that the best explanation for dating this particular myth,
Genesis myth story, no earlier than the conquering of Babylon and no later than the date that you
actually put. So the people who are saying 9th, 10th century BC, it's like wouldn't it be more
common sense to say, look, all right, we know that the Babylonians at least conquered Judea.
And if you want to say that they mingled with the scribes and learned some of their
lore and they came to some common ground of learning each other's language or something,
it at least needed to happen after 586. Would you say?
One would think there is also the theory way before there was a Judah or an Israel as kingdoms.
The Babylonians had conquered part of that region when 1400 BC and a long time ago.
So they conquered part Canaan. So maybe the Canaanites cut a hold of the Gilgamesh epic.
And for some reason they liked the Sumerian king list and they got all these documents.
And we don't have any evidence of this, but maybe they had this collection of Babylonian
traditions. So they passed it down and eventually the Jews get them or
Judeans get them from the local Canaanites. That's what I was going to say.
Yeah, you know, there's so many steps in between. And the thing is, they've looked at all these
Babylonian Mesopotamian traditions. There's not a shadow of a hint of Canaanite influence on any of
them. You don't you don't find any Canaanite rulers or you know, there's no trace. It's just pure
undiluted Mesopotamian traditions. So I point that out in my book that that's just not viable.
But then the alternative is after 586 BC, they were conquered by the Babylonians.
They went into captivity. And then they decided, oh, we're going to take all of these Babylonian
traditions and write them into our Bible. For instance, they're going to decide. I mean,
the same explanation was given to the laws of Hamilabi and why they're in the Pentateuch.
And other such things that somehow they were exposed to them. Hamilabi was around 1500 BC.
Somehow they were exposed to them and preserved all this time and eventually written into the
into the Pentateuch. Yeah, that doesn't work either. So so now there's the theory that when they went
into captivity, they and they were they just they come up with the laws of Hamilabi. They come on
all these Babylonian traditions. And they said, listen, we're going to write down the laws of
Moses. Let's see some of these laws of Hamilabi and pass them off as Moses. And nobody will
know the difference. There's just no evidence that the people in the Babylonian exile were
literate. They were scholars. They were writing literature. They had access to all these esoteric
Babylonian traditions and law collections. They have documents from the Babylonian exile in Babylon.
And the people there were not producing literature. They were polytheistic. You know,
they were worshipping Babylonian gods of loss with Yahweh. You can tell that by their names.
They were just grunts. They were they were working their farms and they were so not
ascribable culture that when they had legal documents, they would have a Babylonian write
them up for them. They didn't even have their own scribes for their marriage certificates or
financial transactions. So, you know, it's just been this hypothesis that the Jews get a hold of
Babylonian traditions, either, you know, way over a thousand years BC before the time of David
and Solomon or else during captivity, they took on all these Babylonian traditions and they said,
OK, we're going to rewrite Genesis. We're going to say that, you know, right now we're in exile
from Judea. We're living in Babylon. Well, we're going to say that our ancestors were actually
in exile from Babylon, which is where we're living now. And they colonized Judea. I mean, it's just
it's it's a scholarly hypothesis. I want everybody to kind of see the tension,
of course. This is this is the kind of pokes that the scholars are doing at the minimalist
approach that that Russell is bringing up here. And this is just why I asked because I knew you
would give this explanation. Let's move forward. What are some of the weak points of dating the
parallels to the Gilgamesh flood stories compared to Borosis? What what parallels are there between
the flood myths in the Gilgamesh epic tablet 11? So I guess if I could read this little excerpt,
I think this kind of applies to certain features are common to both the Gilgamesh epic and Borosis,
but lacking in Genesis, the flood hero was warned in a dream. Friends or craftsmen were brought aboard
the ark, along with provisions. The flood lasted only briefly. The flood hero was translated into
the company of the gods. And this is interesting, a detail better paralleled in Genesis by Enoch than
by Noah. So in the Gilgamesh epic, you have someone's translated to the company of the gods,
which Enoch does not not know. Such details are not useful in determining whether Genesis six
to nine bears a closer relationship to Borosis or the Gilgamesh epic tablet 11. The same comment
applies to other features, which are different in all three accounts, the dimensions of the ark,
the name of the Arminian mountain on which the ark rested and the name of the flood hero. How
would you handle that? Or if you will, can you comment on what we just discussed there?
Sure. Well, for one thing, since I wrote Borosis and Genesis, they've discovered a new fragment of
the Gilgamesh epic that describes the ark as round. It was a round boat, kind of like the
round reed boats that have been used on the Euphrates River. It's a type of boat to have there.
So there's another difference. There's really, there's some epitamian aspects that are,
some of them are very strikingly the same. For instance, releasing ravens at the end of,
and doves at the end of the story to see if the waters had receded. You know, that's very striking.
It shows that there is some kind of independence. On the other hand, you know, the reason for the flood
is strikingly different. In the Gilgamesh epic or in the different Mesopotamian flood stories,
it's the noisy neighbors that humans were making so much noise down there. First, they created
humans so they could do all the work. And now, that making so much noise that the gods can't
rest like they wanted. They can't sleep because of those party people. You know, next door,
well, next door is actually below heaven or whatever. But, you know, so they're like,
we're gonna do something about this. We can't call the cops. I know what. We'll send a flood
and wipe everybody out. So that was the reason that they gave, which is a bit different.
In the Bible, it's a matter of ethics. The humans became progressively more violent and
wicked, and their imaginations turned to wickedness all the time. The only ancient parallel to that
is, uh-oh, it's Plato. It's the story of Atlantis, where because these Atlanteans, the royal family
of Atlantis, they started out righteous because they were marrying the god, right? I mean, the god
Poseidon knocked up this beautiful girl in his land, and she had five pairs of twins. Two of them
were Atlas, and I forget the other one. You know, Atlas was the eldest, so he was obviously
a giant like in Book of Genesis. You know, and they started out because they were half gods.
They were, their rule was righteous, but they kept on intermarrying with these humans. They,
all these human women were evidently irresistible. So generation by generation, you know, you start
out being half god, and then you're one quarter god, and then you're one eighth. And down the line,
they were just like regular humans. So of course, they were violent and ambitious and greedy and
unrighteous, you could say. And they planned to invade the Mediterranean and conquer Greece
and all the civilized world, which was, which was a bad wicked thing. So Zeus decided we have to
punish these people for their own good and take this righteous race and set it back on the right
track. And so he set rain, floods, earthquake that sank Atlantis and much of the world.
And so in Plato, it turns into this big ethical story about a just god who has to
wipe out most of humanity because of some wicked doings. So that is the striking parallel
where part of the, there's this Greek platonic tradition, it kind of gets overlaid
under this Babylonian story. And you've got a little mix there, but I hadn't, I hadn't read
Quideus and Plato at the time I wrote Barossa. So I only had kind of half the picture.
It's interesting too that you noting these similarities, even in the older myths that
the Greeks are using here, especially Plato. And I said Greek says in like Barossus is also using
these older myths and stuff. So it's not like a single guy doing one thing. But what I noticed is
if I'm not mistaken, Gilgamesh is two thirds god or he is like two thirds a god. And so like
there is this idea that like you will, if you mix anymore, you're going to start becoming less
deep divine. And just a common note that I took was these older narratives actually allow for the
gods to die. Later mythologies kind of have like an immortal immortality. The Mesopotamian gods can
actually perish like Tiamat being destroyed to create the earth. We have the same thing with
Leviathan, I think in the biblical narrative is a god dragon type figure similar to Tiamat
being destroyed to create the world and whatnot. Anyway, moving on. That was well said though.
And I love hearing about Atlantis and the Greek source and Zeus. And I love how you just kind
of bring in multiple things because that's the shocking new information you're not going to
hear anywhere else and only coming from you sourcing this and it's going to be in your book.
How does the source, and this is where we're getting into interesting ground here on the
Tower of Babel, like I said at the beginning, that not many scholars know or talk about this, but
how does the source of the Tower of Babel change the dating game for the Genesis account?
For example, Nabopalassar and the older Esegilla, I think I'm saying that right, or Esegilla.
Can you explain the difference there and why there's a dating issue, why you believe
the dating puts it later, so to speak? Yes. Well, there's a story.
First off, the Tower of Babel was a ziggurat, which is a seven tiered building in Babylon
that housed the temple of the gods. You ascended up these levels, it was kind of like ascending
to heaven. Everyone recognizes that this is a Babylonian architectural model and that, you know,
that this is some kind of weird Babylonian tradition. No scholar has said this is where
they got it from, but I pointed out in my book that this story of the Tower of Babel and being
destroyed, that it probably came from a poem called The Poem of Era, which was very entertaining.
I was going to ask you, too, if I could read that, or do you want to read it?
Go ahead. No, you go ahead. Okay, okay, because this is so powerful. I mean,
this is what blew my mind, ladies and gentlemen, on a parallel to the Tower of Babel. I have never
heard anyone say, oh, it's this, oh, it's that. And like definitive, even scholars have said,
like Dr. Price says, look, I'm not sure where the parallel is. I think this is it. And Russell
has this here, particularly in the book. The Poem of Era, the Mesopotamian source of the Tower of
Babel story appears to have been the Poem of Era, which described both the flood and later
destruction of Babylon in a second catastrophe of comparable severity. The Poem of Era
was a very popular work, enjoying even a wider circulation of the first millennium BCE
than the Gilgamesh Epic. According to this poem, the flood occurred when Marduk, Lord of the Gods,
was angered at humankind and rose from his royal throne. A cosmic catastrophe ensued affecting
both heaven and earth and floodwaters destroyed most of the humankind, as well as the city of
Babylon. Marduk himself was drenched in his royal attire, darkened and ruined. Marduk built his house,
i.e. his temple at Babylon, and returned to his temple throne. But his government was inadequate
due to the condition of his royal garments. The Apcalusages, who alone were competent to create
a new splendid idol of Marduk for the temple, had been sent to the underworld. Marduk therefore
planned to leave his throne again to descend to the underworld to have his royal attire restored.
Despite the second catastrophe that would inevitably ensue, in his absence, the world would
be ruled by Era, the Mesopotamian god of destruction. Waters again would rise, a storm would blot out
the sky, and the evil wind would blow. The remnant of humankind who survived the first flood
would be threatened with extinction. Cities would be destroyed in temples laid waste.
Babylon would fall, as well as other Babylonian cities, even Sippur, which alone had been spared
from the earlier deluge. The ziggurat of the sanctuary of Babylon, the city walls and towers
would all be destroyed. But finally the wrath of Era would be placated. Marduk would be allowed to
return to his temple, which however, Era still presided over. The gods would be reconciled and
returned to their proper places, and order would be restored. Babylonia would rise again, and Babylon
would be rebuilt, although at the direction of a curiously benevolent Era, god of destruction,
not Marduk, as one would expect. The ruined temples would again raise their heads as high as the
flaming sun. I just wanted to read it because it was so hair-standing, just hearing it,
how much connection that is with this whole flood creation, and this is just something
that is so common sense to me. Let me see if I have this on my notes so I don't repeat it.
Okay, yeah, also the fact that Mesopotamian stories permit gods to be slain, right? We
mentioned that. But the fact that the biblical narrative literally has the first city that's
being created after the flood is a Babylonian one. We have a ziggurat. We have, like, what the
heck is going on? Like, why? Why is Babylon the first city being built? And this ties in with
Nimrod. I'd like to get your thoughts, and I wonder if you have any updated new little sneak peeks
about this guy named Nimrod, this mighty warrior. Can you connect us to this Babylonian city, the
ziggurat, the flood narrative, Nimrod, the mighty warrior? What's going on, man?
Well, you just asked a whole lot of questions. I know. Well, first off, let me focus on
the dating of the poem of Ere. I think I briefly alluded to it in my
erotic book, which is Leaping Through the Pages. Yeah, the Samaritan,
Pseudo Eupolimus, a Samaritan author circa 250 BCE, I think, right? Or am I mistaken there?
Yeah, that he had, he provides some additional details such as the wind blowing down the
Tower of Babel. That's not in the biblical story, but it's another point of contact with the poem
of Ere, which had this wind come and blow down the ziggurat and cause all sorts of devastation.
On the city of Babylon after the flood, Pseudo Eupolimus is a very good witness to the fact
that this Tower of Babel story comes from the poem of Ere. And there's a lot of other indications
that Pseudo Eupolimus was utilizing borosus for that story. The poem of Ere has not survived in
surviving fragments of borosus, but we can use an indirect argument via Pseudo Eupolimus that,
yeah, borosus did have that story. The other thing is what is the date of the poem of Ere?
I argue very briefly the poem of Ere was written in the 600s BC that it reflected historical
conditions because Sennacherib, the Assyrian king, had conquered Babylon, the city of Babylon,
as well as Babylonia. He had diverted floodwaters through the city that devastated it,
and ruined many of the temples. He kidnapped many of the statuary. It was an epic catastrophe
on the same order as the poem of Ere. His son, Esther Hayden, later decided to reconcile the
Babylonians. He went back in in the early 600s, and he restored the temples, he rebuilt, he restored
the statues. It was a restoration very much like in the poem of Ere where the city has a happy
ending. So I dated the whole story too around, well, the first decades of the 600s BC. Previously,
scholars had dated it to like 1000 BC, but after I wrote Borosus and Genesis, there was another
Mesopotamian expert, a scholar, who independently dated the poem of Ere to the same context that I
did. So yeah, I was going to publish that as a standalone article in Irish, one of those
journals, but she beat me to it. So thankfully, that's one less thing I have to write.
But that shows that this Tower of Babel story has to be, you know, 680 BC or later. It's not
as early as biblical scholars had proposed under the documentary hypothesis. So that was an important
clue in terms of dating. So I think that covers the poem of Ere, unless you have follow-up questions,
but then we were going to turn to Nimrod. Yeah, I want to deal with Nimrod. I just wanted to make
mention for everybody. We were talking about Samaritans earlier, potentially being Babylonians.
Check this guy out, right? He mentioned Pseudo-Yupilimus. I just say Yupilimus because it seems
he's a Samaritan writing in 250 BC. So this is a Samaritan who's connecting Abraham to the
giants. How did the Samaritan get these sources in Greek? Well, that's his whole point about
Borosis that is interesting because Borosis was translating these stuff from dead languages into
Greek. And of course, this is also a very esoteric form. I mean, the Greeks were big on that,
especially by the time you get into Hellenistic area of time. They're Hellenizing, not Hellenizing,
they're esotericizing, if I could use that word. I don't even know if that is one, but they're
making everything into allegory. We don't like Zeus having sex with women on earth.
Let's make that an allegory. He's not immoral. Let's make that an allegory. Let's make that.
And I think that's why we see these things happening over and over. But anyway, Nimrod,
my nickname, Nimrod, not because I'm a mighty warrior, but because I'm a knucklehead. No, I'm
just kidding. Yes, so I also have a section discussing Nimrod and comparing him to Ninus,
who was the founder of the city of Nineveh. Ninus didn't really exist. He was invented as an
eponymous founder of Nineveh. They decided, who built Nineveh? Well, we'll name Ninus,
and he named the city after himself. So there's a few parallels between
Ninus and Nimrod, and I go into that. And I bring in... Go ahead.
I was going to say, maybe it's worth mentioning that there's a guy
that's... Borosius is challenging his historical counter-mesopotamian history.
Yes.
Cataecius.
Cataecius.
Yeah, and it's interesting to say that because there's one guy's trying to say...
Can you tell him what Cataecius is trying to say and what Borosus is trying to do?
It's kind of like the Jewish authors arguing against... Josephus is trying to argue against
Romans or whoever. There's this issue going on. It just sounds like an older version of a polemic
going back and forth on who's dating and whose history is correct. So what's going on between
these two guys? And maybe Nimrod plays a part in some sense.
Well, Cataecius, he had a lot of fantastic stories. He was kind of... He was a historian,
but he was really a gossip and he would tell these sensational, oftentimes lurid,
stories of the Assyrian rulers and their different dalliances. And also, you know,
he's really a romancer and people don't give him very much respect. So... But he
basically came up with or at least popularized the story of Nynus and Samarimus,
who was a legendary queen, at least says, in terms of how Cataecius presented her, and how
this Nynus figure, this Assyrian, founded the city of Babylon along with Samarimus. So
Borosis didn't like that because Borosis was a Babylonian. He was promoting Babylon at every turn.
So there's a lot of parallels between Nimrod and Nynus. Nimrod is kind of a
replacement for Nynus. And in the story, in Borosis and in the Bible,
Nimrod, who is a Babylonian, he found Nineveh, the Assyrian
capital, so that Borosis is saying that the Babylonians founded Assyria. The Assyrians did not
found Babylonia or the city of Babylon. And so there is a polemic going back and forth.
I kind of bring some of that out. So historically speaking, what's the reality? Babylon founded
Assyria or vice versa? Babylon was extremely ancient. It was its own kingdom. Assyria rose
independently, and eventually Assyria conquered Babylonia. And it would rule it for a while,
and then it wouldn't rule it, and then it would rule it, and then it would rebel, and went back
and forth for a while until finally the Babylonians completely overthrew Assyria. And it was the end
of the Assyrian Empire, and the Babylonians became the new world kingdom. Okay. So one more comment
on this, and then I'll let you take it, because this is in the vein of what we're talking about with
Nimrod. You say in your book Gilgamesh has always been a favorite candidate for the prototype of
the figure of Nimrod. Like Nimrod, Gilgamesh was a gibber or mighty hero, the product of a union
of gods and the daughters of men, as in the account of the origin of the giants at Genesis 64.
Gilgamesh's exploits included chasing down the wild ass of the open country and the panther of the
steeps, I think, or steps, steeps, as well as slaying the bull of heaven, lions, and various
other monsters. In Sils and palace reliefs, he was often seen locked in combat against lions and
other creatures. Most striking at Genesis 1010, Nimrod's kingdom was said to have begun at Babylon
and Erech. Erech, Nimrod's second most important foundation, was identical with Erech, the city
ruled by Gilgamesh. Yes, so there's a lot of echoes of Gilgamesh in the story of Nimrod.
They were both mighty hunters, they're both associated with Babylon, they're both associated
with the post-Flood world as well. Gilgamesh was in the third generation after the deluge,
and we already talked about how in the travels of Gilgamesh he visited Utnapistim, the flood hero,
and that's why the flood story is in the epic of Gilgamesh. So Gilgamesh was in the third generation
after the flood, and according to Borosis, he apparently ruled Babylon rather than Erech.
So this is a pro-Babylonian tradition found specifically in Borosis, and that really connects
up with the story of Nimrod in a special way, because Babylon is the focus of that biblical
tale. So I think Gilgamesh was like the specific prototype for Nimrod in the biblical story.
Whenever you hear him say the word Borosis, start equating that to 280 BCE pretty much. I mean,
what I'm saying is this is late in the game, so this is the whole point what Russell's trying to
date these books is later. But also, I'm sure everyone's had a fantastic view into the parallels
here. So on that, the final note I have in that same vein there, are there any Greek,
Atlantean, Plato connections in the Genesis 11 story, which the next episode we're going to get
into the Table of Nations, of course. But I ask, in the Tower of Babel post-flood situation,
Nimrod, does he play any role or this fictional narrative, does this have any role in the Greek
world? Not that I've been able to find. So it seems to be Mesopotamian, but within this Greek book
written by a Babylonian in 278 or 280 BC. So it's a Mesopotamian connection in the Greek era,
in the Hellenistic era. And I don't see much direct influence from Greek stories on that one.
Okay, well, thank you so much. Russell, I'm going to spare your voice so that next time we do this,
it's still working. When is your book going to be released, the latest and the greatest?
Well, Rutledge, in my contract with them, they said they want the finished manuscript by October.
But I'm hoping to get a final draft at the end of this month or early June.
Rutledge has some reviewers that had some very good comments. I did additional research,
had to rewrite three chapters, and I'm working on my final chapter now. So I'm hoping that it'll
be to them by early summer. Hopefully their people with a COVID crisis are going to be able to work
from home and edit it to their satisfaction. And boy, I would love if it got published this fall.
And it's not only has these insights into Genesis one through three and the flood story and all of
that. But it also shows where the Jews got monotheism. And it wasn't from the Persians,
it was specifically from Plato. So that's kind of a major new theory that the book will be presenting.
It's kind of tracked down that mystery. You're asking for trouble now. You're asking
for trouble, Russell. Well, I really do appreciate you. I look forward to seeing your book. I always
enjoy what you have to bring to the table and interesting connections. Let's do this again.
Everybody try and get the book. I know it's expensive. Have they figured out on ways to lower
the price or there's ways that people can get the book, this barosis in Genesis, Manito and Exodus,
with the price being so high? Well, you can look for deals on eBay. But I would recommend,
well, first off, I would recommend just go to your library. They won't have it unless your
library is a university library. But use inner library loans. Say I want this book and they'll
get it for you no matter where you live. They always do. So you can read it for free. Or
what I do a lot is I'll get a book from the inner library loan. I'll target my favorite parts and
I'll photocopy it, which is better than paying $146 or however much it is in hardback from the
publisher. But yeah, use your local library. That's what I do. That advice. Yeah, ladies and
gentlemen, what do you think of this? I really think this is a fun discussion and peering into
this ancient languages and ancient context that we find. I mean, you've got the Sumerian, you've
got the Akkadian, you've got these various languages, and somehow the narratives just go
straight into a Canaanite or an ancient Hebrew. I mean, it's tough. This is tough to say that this
happened without any evidence. So the minimalist approach is what can we know? What can we at
least put our fingers on and test? Sure, this might not be the case, but the best case we have
with the evidence that we have is what Russell's trying to present. And I appreciate that. I really
do because you're starting with what we can know, not going off of speculation or historiography to
try and come to conclusions. And so thanks so much for joining us. Let's do this again and
continue the series. The next one will be on the Table of Nations, and I'm excited to hear what you
have to say on that. Okay, looking forward to it. Never forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are the vision.
