Again, Dennis, thank you so much for joining me here at MythVision. I really appreciate your time.
I have a question from a Patreon member, Whiskey. Thank you for being a Patreon of MythVision.
If you are watching this, consider joining and helping us out. I know that you can gain a lot
from joining us. Question. What is Dr. McDonald's perspective on the prevalence and popularity
of so-called Gnostic Christianity seemingly from the jump? Question mark. To me, it seems to suggest
the heavy populace bent to the early Jesus movement, or at least a more accessible message,
rather than solely under Second Temple influence, i.e., it was an in-house Jewish movement. Dr.
McDonald addressed as many of those less attended to influences. Essentially, where is all this
Gnosticism coming from and why does it find itself repressed by the actors which set up the sect,
which gets called Orthodox tradition? Also, if I may add a secondary pick, whichever you think
is better, question. Are the synoptics in John a response to Marcian? Not that mark material
didn't exist prior, I think it did, but the collecting and publishing of the Gospels themselves
being a reaction to Marcian's impact. Those are two huge questions, and I'm going to start with
the Marcian question first and then move to the Gnosticism question. Derek, you can remind me to
move to the Gnosticism question when it's appropriate. The problem with monitoring Marcianism
is that we don't have a Marcian texts itself. We have only apologists and
heresiologists, such as Tritulean and Epiphanius and others, to go by. There's lots of wonderful
energy now about Marcian's Gospel. Some would in fact say that Marcian's New Testament is the
earliest collection of Christian literature, the first New Testament, and some have gone so far as
to say Marcian's Gospel should replace Q as the earliest Gospel of all. I honestly think that's
nonsense, and in my book, a synopses of epic tragedy in the Gospels, I have a lengthy discussion of
Marcian's Gospel. But that doesn't mean that a late New Testament writing such as Luke acts
is not engaging with a Marcian form of Gnosticism. That is advocated by people especially who think
that the Acts of the Apostles, including Luke, was issued in two stages. So the final stage
can be late enough to engage early Marcian theories. I prefer not to take it that way,
but I would prefer to say that some of the intellectual tradition that informs Marcianism
comes from earlier forms of Gnosticism, some like early Valentinianism, perhaps.
And Marcian just took that Gnosticism and recalibrated the New Testament in order to conform
to this new ideology, because much of other forms of Christian Gnosticism
simply gave different interpretations of the New Testament or created different documents.
They didn't try to create a canon in order to replace the canon. So my answer to you,
unfortunately, has to be complex. That is the only book in the New Testament I think that we
can make a claim is engaging Marcianism is Luke acts. But I also think it's more likely that what
we find engage there to some extent, but not primarily as the concern of the author, is a form
of Gnosticism that's already moving in the direction of the Marcian tradition. Now, why does Gnosticism
have legs in the modern world? And that some is something of a mystery to me.
I think part of the image is that there's a dissatisfaction with the organized church and
organized religion, organized Christianity. And we have alternative voices from the early church
that seem to resonate with certain readers. And this is a way of holding some kind of theology
or faith or wisdom in the face of orthodoxy so that you have your own competitive religious way
of being in the world. But of course, if I'm, well, not of course, I'm an atheist. And so any
talk of the theology, even if it's a God who's beyond the gods of Gnosticism, is really not
useful in my view as a way of understanding the world and much more of a humanist and a pragmatist
and a fan of science. And there are forms of Gnosticism that can valorize science, but there
are others that do not because they're world denying and arguing that the physical world is
not the world of the soul and the soul needs to be nurtured by the divine. And of course,
there are lots of different forms of Gnosticism. So I don't want to put them all in the same basket.
But I think the quest for meaning is universal. And Gnosticism offers a alternative revelation
to the Christian message. It has some affinity sometimes with Buddhism. It certainly has roots
in Platonism. And I'm not trying to reign on anyone's parade. I think if Gnosticism is nurturing
to you and it produces good, then cherish that vision. It's not my vision. But I think it's an
alternative way of being spiritual and nurturing the soul that isn't plagued by the kind of
male supremacy and hierarchical organization that modern Christianity has become.
And just to be a little direct on this is why do you think there was so
negative a reaction to Gnosticism by those who we call heresiologists, the orthodoxy?
Well, again, the arguments are going to be different depending on the kind of Gnosticism
we're talking about. But let's take Marcianism, for example. Marcian considered the God of the
Hebrew Bible to be the Demiurge who created the physical world. And because spirituality
and the life of the soul is a fidelity to the God of Jesus who is not the Demiurge.
The church really felt threatened that its Jewish scriptures are no longer part of the divine
revelation. And much of the arguments of early Christianity had to do with the status of those
texts. And those texts then get cherished in communities and then they get protected by
those communities. So when you have a challenge to the literature, you have a challenge to the
heart of the community. So I think that helps understand why you have this hostility.
Ladies and gentlemen, be sure to sign up for Dr. Dennis R. McDonald's Greek Mimesis in the New
Testament course, reading the Gospels with one eye on Greek poetry. Dennis spends 18 lectures
diving into several parallels, building up the methodology to show you his methods and how he
sees that the New Testament authors cleverly rewrite and really make Jesus such a better
figure than what we see in the older Greek myths and their poetry. You can sign up today,
own it for life. There are several hours, well over eight hours of content in this course with
18 lectures. Dennis gives you so much to read and look up and consider in investigating.
Did the New Testament authors actually imitate the Greek epics to write their narratives about
Jesus? There's several reading recommendations, additional resources. Under every single one
of the lectures, you can download one through 18 on MP3. In case you want to just download it and
have it in your whatever the device might be in order to work and listen at the same time,
you don't have to just see it. But if you decide to watch the content, it is all in 4K,
extremely high quality content, as you can see. And you did it in from, we have a Greek lab.
The audio is nice and loud, takes you through his book, and this takes a deep dive. Be sure to
sign up today. I hope you will. This helps Dennis McDonald and it helps educate the world
on what's going on in scholarship.
