Today I ask Paula Fredrickson if the God of the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament,
First Testament, evolves over time. This is outside of her expertise, but I had an anonymous helper
who helped us make this trip possible to Paula Fredrickson. Thank you, you know who you are.
I wanted to ask this question either way, and it was really interesting how she took it from the
Hebrew Bible into the Christian God. Paula Fredrickson, Dr. Fredrickson, I have a very good
friend who wants to remain anonymous. They help us out here at MythVision. He had a question I
asked of Dr. Bart Ehrman. Of course, it's not his specialty, even though I think he has a master's
in something in the Hebrew Bible or something. Bart Ehrman took a jab at it, and of course,
I know this isn't your expertise. Just how you have those warnings. The battery's not included.
This is what we're dealing with. It's a question that's outside of what you write on,
what you publish on, what your expertise is on, but you might have something you might want to say.
Okay, let's try it. I would be interested in her views on whether Yahweh began as a tribal mountain
or volcano god around the 13th century BC that over time acquired the attributes of competing
Canaanite gods such as El and Baal. Also, do you believe, let's just start with that.
It's not my field, but I have read in the field Thomas Wormer, for example, talks about
the way that earlier Canaanite and different Semitic gods merged with the figure of the
god of Israel, and certain attributes are attributed to him that are like the attributes of Baal or
other deities. I don't know if it happened on a Wednesday in the 13th century BCE, but
that it makes sense that god talk is cumulative and gets used. I think that
ideas of god are very plastic. I know from the period I do know something about, which is Roman
antiquity, that there's an interesting transition where the god of Israel is an ethnic god. It's
just that he's going to do this amazing act of cross-ethnic outreach when he declares his
universal sovereignty, but he's also the god of Jewish history. He's the god of Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob. He's the god of Israel. Then what happens in the second century when you're reading
somebody like Justin Martyr is that suddenly this god, the highest god, becomes the ethnically
featureless god of middle platonic philosophy. He's leached of all ethnic characteristics.
He's even leached of historical characteristics. What he has is a lieutenant god who Justin
identifies as the pre-incarnate Christ, whom he calls a heterostheos, another god. This is
Justin Martyr. That's the god who shows up in the Septuagint. That's the god who's manipulating
matter, which is what a demiurge does in middle Platonism. You have this change in the conceptualization
of god once you have people with different mental furniture declaring something that has started
out as a very Jewish message, and it becomes platonized. Then, of course, when you get Trinitarian
stuff a couple more centuries down the pike, that's another reformatting of the idea of
God, of the Jewish god who continues to change as Gentile Christianity develops.
To go back to the original question about Yahweh, nothing would be more antecedently probable,
I think, than when the people who are Yahwists are trying to articulate their beliefs about
their god, that they grab what they can from their surrounding culture, which are these
other Semitic cultures. I love it. Justin Martyr, when you said that, made me think like,
hold on, another god? Here we are again, and Christ is this other god, which would mean how
did the Trinitarians feel later if they read this? Well, Justin is pre-Nicaea, so he's comfortable
with the idea of another god. Remember Philo called the logos as a second god. I mean, if you have
this high god, and then how do you get matter organized? The high god is perfect and therefore
changeless. Well, you have a contractor, a contractor god, which is what the Demiurge is.
Jesus is Demiurgic for Justin, and he has no problem having it be a subordinate god. As long
as you have one god on top, you're an ancient monotheist. There can be multiple divinities,
and Jesus is that. When you end up with the Trinity,
it's basically a problem in late middle Platonism and
Neoplatonism, where you have the functions of the high god specified. You have a high god whose
aspect in himself is radically transcendent and unknowable. You have the aspect of the high god
that faces out to cosmic spiritual creation, and you have the god that's involved with matter.
What we have in Origin of Alexandria, for example, is this argument. It's brilliant. Unfortunately,
Origin was condemned as a heretic in the sixth century, but he says that God
timelessly generates rational souls that are embodied, because to have a principle of individuation,
they have spiritual bodies, but they have body, and God is the only thing that is radically
unembodied and self-generated. But within the godhead, you have graduated degrees of godness.
You have God the Father, who's above everything. You have God the Son, who's responsible for
material creation in particular. And then you have God the Holy Spirit, who all of these are
distant, non-embodied gods, and the Holy Spirit's particular baliwik is the church. So you have
a graduated Trinity within a unified deity in Origin. And so he's already, again, you can see the
struggle that theology depends on philosophy, the way physics depends on math. You need to have
the developments in philosophy come along before you can have these theological problems. So that's
how you end up with the Trinity. Does that make sense? Yeah, no, it definitely makes sense. And
I was thinking about Paul, going back to your whole idea of who the demiurge would be to Paul,
and it makes me think, is it Christ? Because Christ, Paul's entire martyrdom complex is built off of
Jesus' death, and is he envisioning Jesus as this, this demiurge? Well, he does say that
he threw, through him all things are, right? Right. Through whom? So he definitely sees it.
That's a demiurge. Right. The other part of the question is, also, do you believe such episodes
as the Exodus and conquest actually occurred, despite there being little or no archaeological
evidence to support them? More generally, are the episodes and personages as presented in the
Pentateuch historical or just myth and legend as Airman concludes? How mythological is the Bible?
Can we get archaeological data that supports the historicity of the legends that we have in the
Bible? I don't think so. The stories are significant for, as a myth of origin,
and in that sense, they're significant. But I don't think they're being historically true,
is even an interesting question.
Yeah, I think that it's more like, who was it? There's a, I can't remember the name of the person
who said that, if something is historically true, right? Okay, so what? It happened. But like a myth
stays alive forever. Okay. That's right. Myths, myths have a, well, myths have a life cycle.
They're born, they flourish, and they, and they die unless it's a myth of the imminent return of
Christ, which stays evergreen. It made me think if, and this is like, I'm probably no way to even
see this right now, but like with Greek mythology, like we see it as Greek mythology, we go, yeah,
we don't think Zeus or any of this stuff about them actually occurred or happened.
But people don't really believe in them. I'm not going to say there aren't people in like
Scandinavia or somewhere, you know. Who knows? People believe all sorts of stuff. People still
refer to star charts and astrology. Once the earth was no longer in the center of the universe,
astrology shouldn't have made any difference. Right. But it didn't miss a beat because your
soul used to drop through and bump into different stars and then go into your fleshly body.
And that's why you had to know when you were born so that you would know which stars and
planets had influence over your soul. Switch from a geocentric universe to a solar universe.
Everybody's still going to be astrology charts in the newspaper, right? It didn't stop anything.
Yeah, I was thinking, I wonder if Christianity and stuff like that will start to get kind of
viewed that way over time. I suspect. It's pretty vigorous, and there are all sorts of
Christianities. Right. That's true. That's true. Hmm. Thank you to those who contributed in the
GoFundMe on making this trip possible for these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson. I want to
give a special shout out to you. Your names are chiseled in history. I also want to thank everybody
who has become a patron of MythVision, making stuff like this possible, taking academic work
that is hiding behind all of these scholarships, all of these colleges, and making it public,
public knowledge for everybody to learn.
