We are myth vision. Ladies and gentlemen, if you didn't think I'm worthy to open up the scrolls
You're an eyewitness to it. Here we are
You
You
Ladies and gentlemen, I have a new guest joining us today. I have Dr. Thomas J. Ord. Is it ord?
Ord like Ford without the F. Ord. Welcome to myth vision and thank you for joining me. Hey, thanks for the invitation. I
Appreciate it. I must admit up front your work really caught my attention. I
Imagine many Christians don't see you as a Christian
fundamentalist
That is true
Yeah, I deal with it all the time of course, but I obviously like don't claim to be one anymore
But you do and I imagine with the some of the hot topics that you discuss
Oh, you get under their skin. So first I must let you know everybody who's watching
Thomas J. Ord.com his website is here. Go check him out. I think he's an interesting gentleman
Very polite. I really enjoyed what he did in an interview. In fact, I'll play a few clips just so that we can have some jump-off points
I think for conversation
But go to Amazon. I have the recommended myth vision reading list. Click the link
You'll check out all his works here the one that I was watching your presentation on was God can't and
that one who
That one's I bet you you get a lot of emails probably from people who are triggered by that, huh?
I do although, you know, not as many as I expected with a title like God can't yeah
I expected it to be thrashed
But in reality what happens is the people who read it oftentimes have gone through traumatic experiences
They've been abused had huge questions wrestled with evil and suffering and they read my book and say
Finally something that actually makes sense. And so they send me letters thanking me for the book
Yeah, that's that's I think the problem of evil
I'd love to talk about this today and how you particularly handle it and like
Comparing it to other versions that I hear out there ones that just don't quite make the cut in my opinion
There's just a lot of reasons and I'm sure you've had the same questions
I loved your approach in your presentation that you hear
This is the one specifically I was actually talking about oh great. Yeah, it was a really good presentation
I recommend anybody who is watching this skeptic not skeptic go check it out
I think at the bottom of the barrel. We're both humanists in many ways
So this is something I really appreciated about your theology even if I'm ontologically not in the same boat
It's like we're both trying to better the world
You're not out here thinking tomorrow the end is gonna happen as if like forsake this earth and stuff like you're actually trying to have
human
Human involvement in things and so I just we'll play a clip here
Everybody knows I work hard if you want to support me, please go to patreon join us there
We have early release this content will be there as well
So if you're seeing this and you're not on patreon you're two weeks late to the party
Let's say to actually checking out the interview
Yeah, so is there anything in particular like your maybe your education you can tell our audience a little bit about yourself before we jump in I
I
Grew up in a little farming community
Went to church all the time pretty conservative church. I was gung-ho about Jesus was an evangelist and
Then took some philosophy and religion courses and realized the reasons I had for believing there was a God at all
didn't make sense anymore and
I remember coming to pick up my girlfriend who's now my wife
Her getting in the car and me turning turning to her and saying I don't believe there's a God and
I was a person preparing to be a pastor
But I kept at the quest and I eventually
Returned to belief in God
But a view of God very different from what I had been
Given or at least I had
Intuited from teachers through the years and I suspect that's what we're gonna talk about today
I went on did a PhD lectured, you know
Lectured all over the world write lots of books direct doctoral students. That's me
Yeah, I noticed there's a lot of books on the Amazon that people can go check out you've written
How long would you say you were in that?
Doubting phase where you just kind of rejected the idea of God, you know not as long as some people are because
You know people choose to become atheists or agnostics for a variety of reasons
Some get disillusioned with the church
Some want to sew their wild oats
Some get abused by people they love well and you know, there's but for me it was an intellectual issue
For me it was I just didn't have good intellectual grounds to make sense of reality in which there would be a God
But I didn't give up that intellectual quest. I kept at it
I kept reading and I came back to belief in God basically on two grounds
one I thought there
must be some ultimate meaning to life and
I couldn't make sense of ultimate meaning without something like a ground of meaning that most people would call God and
Secondly, I had these deep intuitions that I ought to be a loving person
that other people ought to be loving that in some sense the Beatles are right that love is the answer and
I couldn't make good sense of that intuition if again
There wasn't some kind of a source for this love that most people call God now
My theism was pretty thin then I lost jobs in churches because I didn't have the right Christology
But I wasn't an atheist for that long because I kept at that intellectual quest
So, okay for me, I guess let's have a conversation, right?
So you understand more of where I'm coming from I understand where you're coming from because I'm more into that than debates
I'm not I'm not a debate type. I just wanted you to know but also our audiences. They understand that
Um for me, I became what I define myself as now as an atheist
Um based on the intellectual side of things
I'm not going to say there isn't possibly something there that started or catapulted me from the beginning of
The way I was treated in the Presbyterian PCA church, which might tell you something
This was not just any Presbyterian. This was a reformed Presbyterian
Very old school at the end, but it was really my studying of full preterism
Which was a heretical eschatology at the time that got me in trouble with the Presbyterian church
but my continuous pursuit
Of like expanding my knowledge of other religions and contemporary
Whether it be mystery cults or what we call mystery religions in the first century the Greco-Roman stuff like in comparative mythology and stuff
That really got me going. Hold on. Why do I think this one's true and those are not true?
However, like for me as as someone when you said like a foundation of of love
I feel the same way
But I may not attribute it to the same thing and you might say well Derek secretly
Right, you don't realize it. But that's God, right? You might define that as God
And I'll give you a funny little thing when I got clean off drugs and alcohol seven years ago
I was out in the backyard at a house where we were allowed to burn
And I sitting in front of the campfire and I was talking to my wife and I just looked at her and I had like a epiphany
I just looked there said
I love you
But I like meant it like like it's a moment of clarification
I looked at her said I love you and at that time I still used the term God to define things
I said no, what I'm trying to say is I got you like I I
literally like I didn't I stopped thinking of a being
So much as I thought of like a
Of a like an action of something that was that was I started to define God a bit differently kind of like what you're doing
then God became kind of
um
I took it into a realm of
Of
What would you call pantheism panentheism to something like that like it's everything everywhere kind of thing
Yeah, yeah, is what I started to do because I said hold up
Is like that six wise men of hindustan thing I was telling you that we're all blind trying to touch this elephant
And my study into science started to make me go hold on naturalism makes a lot of sense for me
I can't say that you had the same conclusions, but um, but I I at this point
That like understood that that foundation of love and that requirement that that you would need meaning beyond us
um, I I feel content
With the meaning that I have within me and my like the people around me
It's not a I don't need like an existential beyond that or a metaphysical or it needs to be something
presupposing
I don't know that's for me. It doesn't I don't need that
Yeah to have purpose and meaning like if there wasn't a purpose for me being here to begin with right if this is all random
Right, um, then what the heck then there's no purpose ultimately. I didn't need that ultimate
I I just needed to find the now for me and it was just inside of me that worked for me
I don't know if that makes any sense to you. Yeah, it makes a lot of sense
I should stay up front that you know, I'm not going to in this conversation try to evangelize you
No
None of that sort of stuff. So, um, don't don't don't take what I'm
Want to say is me trying to somehow twist your arm to start believing in god again
No, no, no, I'm here for you're fine. But I think for people who do believe in god
polls show
That the number one reason people stop believing in god is the problem of evil
If there's a good and loving god
Why is there genuine evils in the world?
And 99% of answers I hear are crap. I don't buy them and that's why I've written a lot on this subject
For our audience, can you just they're gonna know them?
But can you just highlight a couple like just boom boom boom and then oh things like
You know god allows or sends evil to punish you god
You know god's ways are totally unlike our ways as a total mystery
God is teaching you a lesson building your character
God needed another angel in the choir, you know, you
If you've been to funerals, you've heard a lot of crappy excuses for why someone's killed in an auto accident, you know, it's just
99 times out of 100 it's in my view. They're just not good answers
My provocative claim is that god simply doesn't have the power to single-handedly stop evils
And I think that is the foundation for an actual solution to the problem of evil
Now there's another side here that oftentimes isn't talked about that I call the problem of love
Theists
Have to give I think a good answer the problem of evil
People who don't believe in god. I think have to account for their intuitions about love the problem of love
If there is no god
Then why is there so much good cooperation beauty in the world?
and
You know, you probably know the usual answers, you know that
Well, an sociobiologist would say that we are all programmed
Richard Dawkins would say we're robots blindly programmed to further our genetic lineages
There's more sophisticated things than what dawkins puts on the table
But at the end of the day, I think that's the question for the atheist
or the agnostic
Where do that?
As you told your story, where does that intuition of love come from now?
You might blame you might say it's your evolutionary history that it's your evolutionary advantage to feel love for your wife
The problem with that is that sometimes people don't feel love for their wife
And yet they seem to thrive evolutionarily
So love seems to be sometimes at least counter
productive from an evolutionary standpoint
So I think evolution is correct
But I think we need more than evolution to fully account for love in the world kind of a form of theistic evolution or something
Right. Okay. That's right. Yeah. So we're on the same page as far as we evolved and in the but there's more actively involved
Which is a more sophisticated approach to theism. I think
um
Yeah, and I mean this does get into there's so many questions that come up with these kind of approaches that I must admit
um a fundamentalism just cannot hack this kind of approach and so
for example, um
Since god can't single-handedly when it comes to evil, right?
The question that came up in my mind during your lecture was
Then god can't I can't imagine in that kind of idea with your worldview
God actually knows the future to all things. So you're you're one that like open theism. That's right
I'm an open relational theist. I don't think god knows the future with certainty
Do you would you say at least I'm just trying to learn from you because actually you're the first open theist
I've ever actually talked to so. Oh good. You get to take my virginity in
I love it
so
So what does this mean? Okay, so god
Obviously would be a greater version of us in terms of the intellect and everything
But you would say isn't this omni thing that we've invented about that comes kind of from platonic
Perfect, you know philosophical concepts. We've kind of bagged on to god
Which we've actually pigeonholed ourselves or if you will we've actually caused in those kind of theological
Framework we actually are putting ourselves into a corner and creating more problems than we are
Totally agree. Yeah. Yeah
Okay, just trying to wrap my head around where you're at on god god does so god
Is obviously far more intelligent than us. Would you say humans don't know as much as god though, right?
Yeah, I'm even willing to say god knows all that there is possible to know
It's just that the future doesn't yet exist as an actual set of facts that can be knowable
So, you know, I live in the u.s. We're gonna have a presidential election soon
Um, I don't think god knows with certainty who will be the next president of the united states
Why not because god's an idiot
Not because god doesn't know something that's knowable
But the fact of who's going to be the next president isn't knowable at this present junction
And won't be knowable until the vote actually takes place and then who knows maybe trump will not want to
Not want the election results, but anyway, I won't go down the politics
So, okay. Okay. Um
Ultimately what that comes down to is
God's relation to time
The common theistic view is that somehow god exists outside of time right augustine would say god created time
It's not a view you find in the bible not in the coran as well
But it's it's people have had this view of god being timeless and from this timeless perspective
They said god knows the beginning and the end as if it's a fact
An open theist like me says no no no
God moves through time like we do moment by moment the past is passed for us and for god
The future is a realm of possibilities for us and for god
So god knows everything that's knowable about what happened in the past and all the possibilities for the future
But god can't know with absolute certainty who will be the next president of the united states
Is it fair to say that the reason you not just you I mean like open theists come to this conclusion is because
They're looking at the attribute of god as love and they're they're having to reconcile this other attribute called love
to
negotiator to
Navigate I mean this problem
They're finding well if god is love this can't be the case like
Is that true for me personally? I would say the majority of open theists however didn't come through love
The majority of open theists came through free will
They said how can I truly be free?
If god knows with absolute certainty why i'm gonna have a breakfast tomorrow and god can't make a mistake
If that god can't make a mistake and somehow god knows it's the case
It must be the case. It must be actually true
But if it's actually true, there's no options for me and so free will requires options
So it was really the free will argument for many that led them to open theism
And and let's get in the free will just to get your thoughts on this because you took the love path
like why
So we talked about how god is not
Biblically speaking like you can make a reason of building up why you think god's outside space and time
But there's nowhere in the text that says this no the other question
I have is the free will one right like I don't find anywhere in the text that explicitly says
Uh adam and eve in the garden that this was god giving them free will so that he could test them and he knew
Well, he didn't know they were gonna fire you knew either way you take the approach
Um, it's like free will is the excuse for why evil began and it exists
Which if you're not saying god knows the future you're getting away from that problem of him knowing what would happen
It's like you as a parent as you described
Knowing your daughter's gonna drown your other daughter's an analogy, which I was like, oh god
But if you knew that I you are as you are as just as uh guilty in that kind of framework
So this whole foreknowledge thing the way that they understand foreknowledge
You would take a different approach when the bible uses foreknowledge. I suspect. What do you think that right? Yeah
In fact, I think the bible rarely has
Divine foreknowledge to be something like god knows the future with its uncertainty with in its entirety with certainty
So like, you know, take a prophecy
The vast majority of prophecy in the bible isn't about predicting the future
It's about the prophet standing up in the midst of the people and saying
You guys are treating each other and the earth horribly and if you continue to do this your life is going to suck
God's not pleased with the way you're hurting one another and the planet
You don't have to know the future to know that if you treat the planet poorly or each other poorly
There's going to be bad consequences. Right now. There are a few instances in scripture in which god is said to make
Predictions about what god will do in the future
And but that god doesn't have to know the future and it's entirely to make plans just like I might hate make plans to have
Uh eggs for breakfast tomorrow, but I don't have to know everything that's going to happen tomorrow to make that plan
There are a few biblical passages, however
I think that are like what I call predictive prophecy of a very specific sort
Like I don't know if you remember the you know, when jesus says to peter before the cock crows twice
You'll deny me three times and that sounds really specific as if somehow jesus know very specific things in the future
I look at that passage and I say, you know, that doesn't fit open theism
There's a few other passages that don't fit open theism. So you're honest at least in admitting. Yes tax that don't fit
Right. Yeah, it's the same way with divine love
I think the bible talks powerfully about divine love god's loving all and jesus gives us a beautiful revelation of god's love
But there are some passages in the scripture in which god is portrayed as unloving and rather than squint at those and kind of pretend that
Somehow in god's perspective, it's okay to rape each other or to bash babies heads against rocks
Let's just be honest and say sometimes the biblical writers just get god wrong
The bible has errors gross errors sometimes with relation to who god is
I say that not because I think i'm a 21st century postmodern enlightened person
I say that because I've read the whole text of scripture and I see the revelation of god in jesus
And that points to a god of love not a god who wants us to bash babies heads
You ever thought about marcionism?
You know what I mean, it kind of fits somewhat doesn't it marcion had some things going for him
I think marcionism today is portrayed as cut out the whole old testament. Yeah, no
But there's some powerful stuff. Yeah, he wasn't saying that either
But there's some powerful references to divine love in what we call christians called the old testament
So I'm not I don't want to cut it all out, but I do agree with marcion. Yep. Some of it's crap
Yeah, we should just be honest about it. Wow. Okay that like puts you into this category in christendom
Where you are a heretic to so many people?
Oh gosh
Like as far as the category goes, where would you best fit yourself in?
I mean, obviously you're open this but like who do you have more in an organized orthodox type of position?
Who would you say?
Like it's most welcoming as a group as a community a denomination or whatever
This is going to shock you
But I'm actually an ordained elder in a conservative group called the church of the Nazarene
Which is kind of like a Methodist tradition
So, um, you know, I'm not saying all Nazarenes agree with me
But there's enough room in this tradition because it has divine love at the center
It doesn't have an inerrant bible in the classic sense
There's enough room for even a conservative place like that because of its theology to at least stomach someone like me
Right
That's good. I mean, I'm glad that
I like the the way you're heading
I always tell people who are believing in god and stuff the kind of christianity I came from
Was as you know, um pretty rough
But it was also creating a lot of harm in my own mind and the way that I you know
The way I beat myself up over things whether it be lust, which was the big one. I'm a young guy
Just gone through puberty
And you know, you're just going through the normal
What all men go through and exactly what really got me is how fake so many people were
Because I would go down there
You used to have a youth group at the high school I'd go to
And I would
Every almost every other day be down there asking for prayer for the same sin
And and they're looking at me God. What's wrong not masturbate so much
off please what's wrong with me and but honestly and
No, none of these leaders who were down here in this group that were like the main people
Ever needed prayer ever needed laying on of hands, right?
And I'm thinking to myself like
Is there something wrong with me and my god's child like I was being honest
and that's the thing as I was really being transparent and honest in my my
My uh my little journey that I went through most of my life and um, I just thought to myself
What in the world? So I dived deeper. I went to college and I got a little associates degree at christian college here in north carolina
um
But it was I learned more studying commentaries than I did actually at the college
They only taught me how to parse words what demonology angelology and like little things here and there and
But um, it was it was the years later that I actually took a real interest and then started myth vision
That actually got me into listening to people. I would have never listened to before
Which were more liberal approaches and I I wouldn't say you're liberal. I'm saying though the approach you're taking
We used to consider scholars like this liberals and you know exactly what I'm talking about. Yep
Yeah, we would like go don't listen to them. They're liberals
But you know what's funny and you might have an aim into this
I don't know if you do but uh, you might
Is when I started actually learning what the gospel authors and paul were doing with their quotations from the septuagent
They were recontextualizing them giving them completely new meaning and I thought to myself
One day had gone to me
They're liberal scholars
They're using this text and just recycling it in their own way for their own time to their own people
And I thought no the text I was taught was exegesis and you had to know exactly where it meant and how it meant
And they had to apply only then and you know, it was like, you know, it's just it was just a horrible
Thing to have that bubble pop on you. It sucked
I'll bet you heard this phrase like I've heard it
You're picking and choosing
You know, you go to the scripture and you read some passage, you know like about god's love and they'll say
Well, you're picking and choosing, you know, what about all that wrath?
And and I like to say if you look at what jesus did that guy's the ultimate picking and choosing kind of person
He's just like cherry picking the things out of the old testimony likes and just skipping right over the crap
Yeah, so, you know cherry picking has got a good legacy in the christian tradition goes right to jesus
I'd rather people cherry pick especially in light of the way some horrible groups that you know have really bad ideologies
The way that they are viewing people of different races different sexes. You name it, right?
I want all of us to head in that direction. So I think we have a common goal
I just figure I'd ask how we write. How do we deal with these other problems and
In my mind, I thought well now you've solved the problem. God doesn't know the future or at least we
It's assumed he doesn't know the future that would solve. Why would he create to begin with right?
It also makes sense why in genesis 6 he's like, oh
Why I shouldn't have done this. I regret
So the anthropomorphic language about God
Fits this kind of open theistic or at least this idea that God doesn't really know everything adam. Where are you?
Like I take that as sincerely what it meant now
But when I was a christian I used to say
No, he's just trying to make language understandable for adam and it's like you make god into this robotic type thing
You know, I don't know how to describe it
Hmm. Yeah, I think scripture the christian scriptures
Fits the open and relational theological vision that I've kind of briefly laid out
Better than any alternative, but I want to be quick to say I'm not saying every last verse in the bible supports what I've been proposing
I think the preponderance does the overall witness does but I don't think the bible is a systematic theology
I think there are real contradictions tensions and errors in it
But we can take this general vision and especially this vision is portrayed in jesus
And say, okay, this gives us the kind of parameters that we can work with
Let's bring in the best of science. Let's bring in the best of our reasoning and capacities
Let's bring in the arts humanities
Questions of gender and sexuality. Let's put this together and and constructive vision that overall
Makes best sense of the world and to pick on your theme
encourages us to
Move into a better future. You used to wear humanism. I think it's all creatures
Something that makes life more flourishing for everybody
And I think a theistic vision can do that in really remarkable ways
And I think I think theistic or if you weren't a theist, you know, and you had the same goal, right?
Yeah, no, right
And I think we're just that's what I'm trying to find common ground and I think we're on the same page with is
That's a good aim. That's why I also like hearing things like what you're saying because
Too often we can categorize everybody under this while christians say and it's like
Actually, not all christians say that and you start learning how to be honest and fair
And maybe you might have caught yourself saying well atheists think and you're like, okay, maybe not
Maybe not all atheists actually think that if I'm gonna actually not straw man
Or maybe there's some that aren't like that and um, I get it because there's people who've wrote me recently and alive
They said well, what like I feel like
If I die young or die old, I just feel like that's it
There's there's no purpose
And he told me this or some random comment came on and you know, you probably wouldn't expect an atheist to probably say something
I said find a philosophy that works for you find something that helps you find meaning in purpose
If you're getting caught up in the science of things and you're all down into the molecular level and chemical compounds and this and this and you're like
Whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm kind of becoming nihilistic or whatever and it's not a it's a pessimistic
Ideology in my mind change your ideology and find a way that makes you more optimistic
As long as it's not harming people because you can become harmful no matter what ideology holds to
I agree with you 100 and let me put that on the other shoe
If you're a person who believes in god and you're drilling into theological stuff
And you are finding that it's not bringing life to you. You're ending up being a worse person. You're bitter
You're tribalistic
Get rid of god
Get rid of that now. I obviously am a person who believes in god and different vision of god
But whatever you're doing whether it's theistic scientific human, you know, the arts whatever if you discover that doing that is not
leading to flourishing for you and the others then
Alter your course. You'll probably end up incorporating some of the good that whatever you were searching for
You're not going to leave it entirely
But alter course toward that toward that which really leads to flourishing
That's well put. I mean, that's thank you for saying that actually that was a really
Honest thing to say because at the end of the day
People come back, you know
People find ways to find like you said a balanced approach that you have figured something out that obviously has made you a better human being
It has helped you in your life gave you meaning purpose things like that
And I've done so as well in this in this approach that I've done
Um, I wanted to ask you you mentioned in this lecture that we're back to the to the hot stuff
Okay, good. Good. Yeah, really the hot stuff is the whole hell issue, right? Yeah
So here we have god does not know all things future
He knows all there is to know but future is not an existence
Therefore god knows what comes to be as it is but with the max capacity of knowledge as it comes
Um, you also would say there's free will so there's that obvious approach of making sure that god loves
in a way that is
Not coercive in in that sense, but also as much as he can know
So you're kind of putting a limit as our calvinist friends would say you're you're putting a limit on the limiting god
Yeah, or they like to say you made him weak, you know, I've seen that in the thing you got a weak god
I can do more than your god can do
But how do we deal with this afterlife thing because you said you believe in an afterlife
But you didn't go into any specifications. Are you a an annihilationist?
Do you think that maybe universalism makes the the most sense where that that phrase are we cherry picking the
Christ becomes all in all to mean all because it's optimistic and you like that idea
Where are we at in terms of that for your theology?
I want to tell you what I think as the fourth
model among four models
First model traditional heaven and hell view. I think it's crap. I don't think there's good biblical
basis for eternal conscious torment
If you lined up
I'm a member of the american academy of religion, which is the largest
A group of scholars of religion in america
We have about five to six thousand people who attend our conference every year
If you took five thousand scholars at the american academy religion and asked them if they believe in a literal hell
Of eternal conscious torment probably four thousand of those five thousand is saying no
There's just not very much support for that, but that's the popular view. I reject it
second option
I'll call it classical universalism
Someone like carl bart or more in contemporary terms david bentley heart
These people think that god eventually is going to make sure everyone experiences bliss
Because god's got the kind of power to make that happen
Well, I say to those people if god's got that kind of power to make sure everybody gets to heaven
Even if they don't really want to then why doesn't god use that power to fix things right here and right now instead of making innocent people
suffer
Why doesn't that god stop putin from invading ukraine instead of waiting to some day in the afterlife to make sure everybody gets to
Go to the pie by and by or pie in the sky by and by
So I don't embrace what's called classical universalism
Annihilationism says well god is going to resurrect the righteous
But either passively or actively
Annihilate burn up kill off all the unrighteous
That portrays a pretty dim view of god in my view
That portrays a view of god whose love actually has limits like god says, you know
Derek, I'm sorry. I've given you 5,687 chances this next one if you don't say yes
I'm going to burn you up. You're gone sucker
Now that's not a picture of a god whose love is everlasting. I don't believe in annihilation in annihilationism
My view says this
God exists and god is a god of love
And god invites every single one of us moment by moment
To live a life of love and we can choose to accept that or reject that in a myriad of different ways
After we die
That choice continues moment by moment and god never gives up on anybody at any time
Now that means we can continually say no to god and god can't force us into eternal bliss in heaven
But because god never ever gives up
There's the hope not the guarantee
But the hope that eventually everyone capable of responding to god everyone and every creature you might even say
Will eventually say yes
So it's not classical universalism. It's I call it relentless love version of the afterlife
The same kind of conclusion though eventually is is the aim
At least in the end with with the universalist message, right?
It's the same aim
It just doesn't have the kind of view of god's power that makes it a guarantee that you get in some other theologians
Okay, and as far as the whole hell question goes
Um, we talk about how scripture has different messages the new testament old testament doesn't matter
There's there's variations different theological points
But this idea of the the smoke will go up day and night or or these other passages, right?
Annihilationists like to point out. Well, it was an eternal fire not that the fire is burning eternally
so it's this idea that uh god just kind of
Swallows them up and then boom they're annihilated
We're rather than an ongoing agony where people have the claim to fame by writing books called
23 minutes in hell and you know all of this crazy stuff that you're like really come on man
I remember reading a book called mary k. Baxter. It was the craziest book. I've ever read on hell
I had nightmares and it was just insane
Like the kind of descriptive things she was saying about and jesus took her there
And then he left her as she said he held her hand the whole nine and then left her in the heart of hell
And she's tortured for I don't know how long and then he came back and saved her
She was mad for him mad at him for a week
Then he brought her back to take her down just and then it's just I wonder how many book cells she got from that but
Um, that's me being someone who thinks what the heck
Do you think that there is a message in the new testament that is like fits one of these categories other than your category?
Um, and but once again here we are with this kind of like why I could find god
Maybe he's definitely harsh in certain places, but I like the message of love. We're cherry picking
Do you think that there's this message that I think there are two general messages when it comes to these issues in in scripture
Especially the new testament the old testament doesn't have you know, it's got shea. Well, it's this
Right. Anyway, the two messages are this one
God's angry
When we hurt each other when we hurt ourselves when we hurt the world
I believe that god's angry. I just don't think god's going to punish us and kick our butts and
Torture us, but I do think god has emotions and just like I'm upset when my kids hurt each other
I think god's upset when we hurt each other. So that's one god's angry when we hurt each other and secondly
There are natural negative
Consequences to hurting each other to not doing what's good and right not helping
You know helping your fellow person helping the planet, etc
So these idea that god doesn't like it and there are natural negative consequences
Those both can fit into my vision of relentless love
And these images in scripture about you know
Nashing of teeth and the negative consequences that come to the the sheep and the goats
I guess it's the goats who don't help help those who are in need
Those both align with my vision
I think most people want to believe that even though there aren't always obvious
Cause and effect consequences in the world you do good you get good you do bad you get bad
That genuinely speaking there are negative consequences when you do something negative
I think most people want to believe something like that as a play and that's what the scripture writers are pointing to I think
Okay, so I I had imagined a christian saying you're doing Picasso
You're drawing your own art here with trying to make sense of all this and you'd be like, okay
Yeah, I mean I suspect right you're trying to you're trying to make this make the most sense
I would say to that person
We're all Picasso's right. Everybody has their own perception. It's subjective interpretive methods. I'm just honest about it
Yeah, and that's what I like. I like that you're honest, which is one of the reasons
I was really looking forward to this conversation. I just can't I just wouldn't be interested in
Stomaching that kind of conversation with someone fundamentalist like I used to be it's like I've heard what you have to say
I'm so over it. The only reason I would do it is to try and like I don't need a bigger ego
And what am I doing to try and stump you and make you look silly?
I mean at the end of the day I already think your ideology really is and while I don't agree with the ontology
Like I don't actually believe that there are angels. There's really this god
I could take everything that you are saying
And make it fit my naturalist world
honestly
Because I think that like there's not a single thing you didn't say
In terms of what you're saying and visioning and hoping and whatnot that I can't line myself up with and I actually do line up with
And I'm thinking to myself
Okay, what if we're humans?
Like you you have this thing you call it god and it explains existence for you
It's just just like this next step for me. I have the question mark. I don't know, right?
Maybe it's all natural processes. I just don't have that that final
Okay, well, where did that come from? Well, then if that came to sat that had to start
Where did that come from and that and on and on and on it goes?
um
But you know it all can line up and work for me
How do you answer the question as a theist if they said well, okay if god made all things
He's a creator who made the creator like how do you answer that as a person with the kind of view you do have about god
Do you think god has a god?
Yeah, I tell a story
It's a story of a kid who comes home from school. He says uh
Dad at school the teacher told us that we live on a planet just spinning in space
round and round
He says dad
What holds up the world that's spinning on or the planet that's spinning?
His dad thinks about it. He says well son
Underneath the world. There's a big giraffe
And that holds up the world
the son says oh
Well, that's interesting comes back a few days later and says dad. I've been thinking about this world and giraffe thing
What holds up the giraffe?
The father says well son under the drafters a big elephant
son says oh
Come back about 15 minutes later says dad
But what holds up that elephant?
And the father does what preachers used to do in the churches that I attended when they don't really know the answers
They just yell louder. They say
Son, there's a big turtle underneath that elephant
And the boy looked up at his dad and said dad, but what's under the turtle?
And in a stroke of genius the father said
son, it's turtles all the way down
That story illustrates that no matter where you're at if you're a humanist, agnostic, theist, buddhist, whatever
We all have these certain ultimate starting points that we can't say there's anything prior to conceptually
We have to have these foundations for making sense of life
Now some person might just have a world out there and they don't know where that world came from
But that's it they would if they were consistent, they'd probably say it come
It's eternal or maybe it's a part of eternal chain of worlds or something
Most theists say
Well, there's god nothing created god god exists everlastingly
I happen to be a person who thinks both god and some world or another are eternal
That god's everlastingly been creating out of that which god previously created
So in my turtles all the way down
I have god and a world all the way down
You're checking the boxes for the multiverse in case
Yeah, i'm skeptical about an infinite number of simultaneous multiverses
But i'm fully on board with the notion of an everlasting series of multiverses
Which that's getting into the weeds, but anyway, yeah, I get it
I'm just saying you're checking off the boxes because a lot of theists is a bubble will pop
Hold on you mean to tell me that it wasn't the big bang. Oh snap, you know, if there's something beyond that which i'm more
I'm as far as that question goes and actually knowing I don't know
I'm like at the beck and call like the
Theoretical physicist and all of these like highly educated people. That's that's people I learned from I've you know
I've interviewed Lawrence Krauss and other people as well
Just to try and understand what do they mean when they say nothing, right? He wrote this book
Everything from nothing, but um, yeah, I mentioned a book. Yeah
Yeah, I kind of I kind of wanted to pick your brain on some of this stuff to see how you approach it
and
You know for me, um
There's a book I just recently read. I heard you say in your lecture. You got some Mormon friends
Yeah, I got some Mormon friends as well
And uh, they believe that god is corporeal, right?
A lot of philosophy within christianity and what not makes god
In corporeal because you find the breath of god the wind of god these various things you mentioned and we are aware of
But uh, have you ever heard of this book? Uh god an anatomy by francesca starboard a capulou?
No, no
This book right here, uh, she's she's like a professor. Hebrew
Studies and whatnot scholar, you know, I I mean like the credentials the whole nine
This is a god and anatomy and she goes into the bible and shows that the heber bible
And it's ancient neary strun context with all the other gods that were in the local
Ball you name it, right? Which are like names that actually come up within our bible
so she points out god does have a body
and
She goes into like great links to describe the anatomy literally of every part from hands
Using the scriptures and and then goes outside of the bible in the neary strun context surrounding the heber bible
to show you how the other gods worked and
What really blew my mind and someone opened minded like you can listen to me and this wouldn't even like hurt your feelings
Some people would it'd be like, I don't want to hear this. Um, there's she spins
Let me just name it so I don't sound like a weirdo just saying it out loud
It's better to just read how she titles a couple of these
So feet and legs
This is how she titles some of the sub chapters
Grounded footloose sensational feet then part two genitals
This is a wild
I promise you if you read this book, you're gonna be like what's okay cover up phallic masculinities
perfecting the penis
sex
And then and then she goes on your story. I gotta tell you please please feel free
I used to teach undergrad theology students and we usually would have some lds some Mormon folks in there
And we got to talking about God's gender and I made the claim that God doesn't have a gender
And then I said but there's definitely lots of biblical
passages to talk about God having a body and some traditions like the Mormon tradition believe that God
actually has a penis
and
So one of the students raised his head and said how big is God's penis?
And I said I'll tell you what I've got a friend who teaches at Brigham young university. I'm gonna send him an email
and ask him that question
I did and he responded he responded
He didn't give like size dimensions, but he said God has a very large body
So we have to assume he has a very large penis
You know what he wouldn't be far off if you read her book, right?
She says in the Hebrew language, there's a lot of euphemism
So like the author the the people writing they know how to kind of cloak and
Right like remember when Moses I always was perplexed by the passage when Moses
Is standing between the cleft of the rocks and then God shows his back parts his butt
What what is this even why you know like why well you kind of have to enter the ancient world to understand
How they perceived uh their gods and stuff and why this is important
But she talks about how Ezekiel enters into
Uh the temple, you know the heavenly kind of seen the throne of God and there's God in his
His uh wardrobe it says in the Hebrew right is filling up the mantle
I think or whatever it was is filling up the whole the whole place right
Well, she says that term there is actually a euphemism and she goes to explain
In the Hebrew language because she knows the language of course. Um, that's actually God's penis
and
Even something more complicated the rainbow in the sky where God promises never to do this again
That bow is a warrior weapon. We all know you know bow and arrows, right?
It's a symbol because it's in the shape of a of a actual bow and arrow, but
The the phallic masculinity behind a war bow is the curvature of the penis and I'm not making this up
She goes into this and explains why uh, buddy of mine who who told me he knows the greek world really well
He said women in the greek world lost the virginity when they were pierced by
the male penis
Men lost it when they were pierced in battle
And I was like, ah
So she opens this chapter up and this is gonna make you crack up remember donald trump's president and uh kim jong-un in the north korea
Says I have this big button and i'm gonna press it and it's you know
I've got a nuclear weapon is what he's trying to say and I can I could bomb you from here and press this button
So donald trump as nutty as he can be
Literally answers back and says listen, okay
I have a much bigger button
And i'm not afraid to press it and what she said in that cloaked language
What they're really doing is two men in a locker room is saying. Yeah, I have a much bigger penis than you
Don't test me. So in the ancient world
This is what would happen and and so we've kind of cloaked our language in euphemistic ways of like powers and masculinity
All of that stuff. I look as an open theist. I absolutely love you by the way. I can't
I can't tell you how cool you are even if
at the end of the day like
We might disagree like it's
My god go eat lunch and have a blast and talk about stuff all day. I really think you would love this book
because
You know, you're when we talk about cherry picking and the evolution and the development of our perception of god has changed
Like here's this outdated model that we're definitely not enjoying where there's some bad things we see
Um, if we're finding a better way to view this perception of the deity that we want to mimic by the way
You want to act like that god in the hebra bible in certain places?
I would encourage you not to but there are places where you find good things
And if you find in the good things cherry pick them and live by them
I say that to say that the philosophy that god is outside space and time and incorporeal and all of that
Um is later
And that doesn't mean it's not a concept that people can use and it's good
I'm just saying I'm more personally right what did it for me was finding out where these gods come from and all of that
So then I started looking for the answers elsewhere. I said hold on if you and me can line up together dr. Ord
and
We can both see the same mission and I bet you you and me could hear a song by the Beatles and be like
Goosebumps on our arms standing up. We have the same human experience
You just put it and attribute it to this or maybe you think it's something
There and I think it might be a natural thing that we get
I don't know. I don't know. What what what how do you how do we bridge that gap between?
Theist and those like me who kind of turned cope against that kind of harmful
uh position I once held
What do we do with that? You know what I mean?
What I want most in my life, Derek
Is to live a life of love
If they put something on my tombstone
I don't really want them to put that i'm a theologian and philosopher
I want them to put this guy really tried to be a loving person
Now I find it much easier
To join arm in arm with someone like you who doesn't believe in god, but apparently believes in love
That I do with people who believe in god, but sure don't act like they believe in love
What I think is the goal is this flourishing which is love what love aims at
And I'm willing to go shoulder to shoulder with anybody who wants to live a life of love no matter what their beliefs are
Now I happen to think that belief in god and a particular version of christianity
More provides a better conceptual framework to motivate that love, but if someone else thinks differently from me on that
That's fine. I don't think I've got things figured out. I've got a lot to learn
I'm willing to go shoulder to shoulder with anybody who wants to pursue love
I commend that and I'm on the same page
Uh, I I really do. I think that our goal is to you're right
Humanism may not be a big enough term. I used it because I feel like let's get humans on board, you know
Um, but at the same time, I think I've got some pretty good skeptic friends too that that are like, you know
The animal kingdom like outside of humans. We haven't done so good
For animals on earth and there's a lot we could do there
So there's just so much that uh, we have in common. I cannot thank you enough
For coming on and like given me where you're coming from
We have a lot in common and uh, I do appreciate you explaining these things. So
Yeah, my pleasure. Yeah, any anything you'd like to say as we're wrapping up here
um
Maybe I should speak to your viewers listeners. Um, this vision that I've been articulating
in half-hearted or I should say half
Um
Half-assed and that's not quite the word I want not in its full orb sense
is usually called open and relational theology and um
I've written lots of books, but there's one book that's simply called open relational theology
It's not written for scholars. It's written for the average person on the street
and I mention it because
In that book I draw a really stark contrast
Between what I call the conventional god who's omnipotent
Timeless knows the future and this vision of an open relational god who isn't those things
But I think actually exists
So if you're interested in open and relational thinking you want to know a little bit more about the ideas
I've been proposing that might be a good book for you to look into
We'll definitely show that on the screen here in just a second your website
What can they find here and uh, what what do you offer here at the website for them to be able to see?
Uh, well a bunch of essays if you click on one of those essays like where it says latest fsa up there in the corner
You'll see a search and you can search on topics
Whatever that might be if you care about omniscience for instance, you could search
Probably up at the top
Oh want me to go back?
No, it should be on that page. Oh, yeah
Okay, I saw yeah, you can click on that if you're looking for a particular topic
God can't or whatever then you could put in
Or omniscience something will come up. I've been writing on that for you know
God's omniscience grows open theism and divine limitations
Does Jesus influence today all of these? Oh wow lots you write a lot
Okay, so you could probably get a lot of the ideas in that open and relational theology book for free right there on the
On the site actually, how about if I do this? I got an idea. Well, I'll share an idea off air
Uh, but in terms of those sorts of things that that would be helpful
Hopefully so yeah, go there and then on amazon, of course, they can get your books through your website, right?
Sure. Yeah, but most of the time it goes to amazon or some other online retailer
So got it and you've written quite a bit of books here my friend
Yeah, well, yep, that's what I enjoy doing
You there's very few people who write this much just saying
Um lots of books. So go down in the link. Check out some of his works if you enjoyed what what he said
Uh, if if I were to be absolute honest, I think it's good that he is doing what he's doing and trying to find
What best makes sense to him in the modern context that he lives in and uh,
What best suits his understanding and idea of love?
I I can't tell you how that's my goal, right? I talk to muslims all the time
I want muslims to
Reform I want them to progress. I want them to
See that maybe you know sleeping with a girl who prepubescent is not a good idea or
Right, uh, some of the harmful stuff that's happened in history and it isn't them
I'm not picking on just them. Trust me christians did this with colonialism. Like there's so much bad that's happened
I want us to move forward
But when you have fundamentalism that is built into some of the ways that they're interpreting these texts
that's it's like
Reinterpret the text. I don't care if the text doesn't mean what you're reinterpreting it to mean. I would rather be interpret it
I mean, there are actually open and relational muslim theists
Kind of putting together a conference in december bringing together muslims who are open and relational
I have a mormon open and relational friends
Actually one in my doctoral program. So you don't have to just be a quote traditional christian to be open and relational
You can be jewish. You can be other faith traditions as well
Well, well put and then least of all I didn't even get to play the clips, but I'll put the
I was gonna we covered like a lot of what you said there
Um, I have a patreon. I work very hard in this case. Here's a gentleman just so that I fill you in
I'm gonna show you on the screen here. I work very hard on my patreon
This gentleman wants to remain anonymous. He contacted me. He works in the ministry and he said
That the christianity he sees that his practice in america
Is so foreign to the type of christianity. He actually practices because he said he's part of emissions
This is just one one interview. I do tons of them and there's early ones for everyone on my patreon, but
He does mission work and they literally
feed
They give water and they actually build homes and give medical
Vision dental the whole nine two people who've never had any of that their entire life
And he said the high that he gets
The experience that he gets from helping humans that he's out there in the world really saving their lives and stuff
He said he comes back and he's he cannot even go to a church that he's dealt with in america because
It's so watered down and it's so
Conservy and it's so fake and then they have all this fluff and
You know in there in his perspective
But he said derrick even though i'm an agnostic now
And I don't believe that jesus really did this or that this really happened or this historically is true or any of that
He said there's one thing that keeps me still working in the ministry
And I hope to continue doing that is that I believe in love and I actually want to help people
So
He goes and explains like what i'm doing is
The greater good no matter what at the end of the day if it's true this true or that are true
My experience in helping humans and doing what he's doing. I can't tell you how interesting this was
I had to cloak who he was change his voice the whole nine just to
He wants to stay in and he doesn't even try to challenge anyone in the ministry that he talks to he purposely
Goes with the flow
He he looks beyond it and he's that takes a lot of maturity to not be antagonistic once you come to a conclusion
We're like, I think that's not true. It's like no you got to be mature
but
Yeah
So many things just help consider helping us out joining the patreon to work very hard
I do comparisons like uh, cesar augustus
In sutonius he there's so much in common with him and jesus you'd be like, whoa
He's like the savior of the world of course the roman world, but they ruled practically the world
That the known world so there's a lot of interesting things, uh that i've been working on help us out there
I seriously appreciate your time any final words final final words
Well, I guess just a note of appreciation derrick. I sounds like you're doing some really important stuff and
I appreciate the opportunity to just kind of share a little bit about my own background and the things that that matter to me
Keep doing what you're doing. I appreciate you. I hope more people who are
Wanting to live inside of a faith bubble or they find that that is the best world view for them
And that they need that will attach themselves to the kind of ideas that you're doing because remember
The new testament authors were not
Conservatives in their respects
They were definitely more progressive in their interpretation and model of of the bible
And I think that we should as well if you're going to take that approach
Awesome. Thanks, derrick. Thank you. Never forget ladies and gentlemen
We are
MythVision
