Who is this guy, Henry, that you paid the guy to assassinate this person over here?
Stupid, he sighs and he goes, so there's one more prophet, Micaiah, but I hate that I hate him.
This is one more prophet, but I just hate that guy because he never says anything nice
about me. He never prophesies anything good. Okay, we did a deep dive on Genesis. That was fun
and I know that we could have kept going, but it's like, you know, we got to spare some of this
energy for other things. I like the idea of understanding it from its antecedent in Mesopotamia
and Josh, you're an Assyriologist, you're well aware of the languages that these are originally
written in. And Kip, you pay attention to all this stuff in the Hebrew Bible and Dead Sea Scrolls,
so I want to talk about God lying again, or I'll phrase it another way. If we were in the
court of law and the judge said, Mr. Lambert, who is this guy, Henry? He shot your enemy and it
shows a pace stub that you paid the guy to assassinate this person over here. And I said,
your honor, I didn't pull the trigger. Okay, do you think the judge will find me guilty of
committing murder or trying to have someone killed if I paid the assassin to go and commit
the murder? I didn't do it directly, therefore I'm innocent. I mean, if you're God? Yeah,
probably not, right? That's the key. You have to be divine. Right. The only time it works.
You don't have to be the right divinity. That's the real one. I think you see what I'm leading up to
here for everybody who might be watching, and that is, God lies in a way that may not be direct
here. Maybe you know somewhere he's more direct, like Genesis, but in this case, he purposefully
sins a lying spirit to have people lie. And tell us about the story, guys.
It's manipulative. I love this story for a number of reasons. One of the things
that I like about it is that it provides, I think it provides a nice narration of how
prophecy worked in ancient Israel and Canaan in the ancient Aries. There's a whole story here about
prophets interacting with kings and with each other, how this whole institution kind of functions.
But in 1 Kings chapter 22, there is a story of, I think it's Jehoshaphat and Ahab. Jehoshaphat is the
king of Judah. Ahab is the king of the much more powerful northern kingdom that we call Israel.
It's probably called Samaria. And they get together to form an alliance and go out and fight. Who are
they? Ramath Gilead. Yeah, that's right. So they're going out to fight against Ramath Gilead,
because I think it's Ahab is insisting that Ramath Gilead belongs to him. And so he's invited
Jehoshaphat to come along and help him out. And within this story, Jehoshaphat is sort of,
he's the Judean, right? So he's the good guy. He's being promoted as like, he's the king who
is trying to do the right thing. So he's the one who actually suggests, well,
before we go out, let's make sure that we consult the prophets first. And so they get together
400 prophets in order to inquire about whether, you know, what's the result here? Should we go out
and embark on this campaign? Are we going to be successful? What's Yahweh telling us to do?
And I think the prophets all say, yeah, go. You're good. Get out there. Yahweh will give you
victory. And this is my, I love this part of the story and that Josh can pick it up. But what I
love is, Jehoshaphat then goes, I don't know. He's like, are you sure this is all the prophets?
Like, if we asked everyone about the result of this campaign, and you can almost see Ahab's
shoulders, stupid, he sighs and he goes, so there's one more prophet, Micaiah, but I hate that I hate
him. And it says, there's this one more prophet, but I just hate that guy because he never says
anything nice about me. He never prophesies anything good. But Jehoshaphat insists you've
got to hear from, you got to do this right. You got to hear from everybody. So they, they,
we don't know where he is. They go looking for Micaiah. Micaiah the son of Imlah. That's it. That's
right. So they got to go, they got to go find him to make sure that they, they get this right.
Yeah. And so, of course, Micaiah eventually comes and the, you know, the two kings are sitting there
and they say, all right, you know, what's, what's the deal? Are we going to, you know, we're going
to be able to have victory? And, and so Micaiah says, you know, like, essentially, yep, good to go.
Going up, you guys are going to win. Then say, I, how many times have I told you,
tell me the truth? And it said, Micaiah says, all right, like,
no, I think it's, I have, I have, but this point is like, because yeah, because he's, he's literally
every single time he consults Micaiah, Micaiah never has anything good to say. So right away,
Ab's like, wait a minute. Because he's saying, you know, he's, you're like, yeah, so he feels
like something, something's off here. Something is amiss. And so he presses him and Micaiah says,
all right, you know, I'll tell you, I'll tell you the truth. And he talks about this vision that
he had. And so he sees Yahweh, sees it on the throne and the divine counsels come around him.
He's basically saying, Art, who is going to essentially go up and lie, you know, or who's
going to go up and persuade the, these kings to, to go up and to essentially to die, to fight
against Romoth, Gilead and die. And one says one thing, one says another thing. And then finally,
this lying spirit comes forward, right? The spirit comes forward. And he says, all right, well,
what are you, what are you going to do? And he says, I will go and be a lying spirit in the
mouth of the prophets. And so Yahweh says, yep, good idea. Go do it. You're up. And, and so of
course, this is, you know, this is sort of the, the problem when you come to this passage, if
you're looking at it through this more evangelical lens, it's like you can't have Yahweh lying like
this. And so it's, it becomes a problem. And so, you know, as Derek said, well, you know,
Yahweh, he allowed this spirit who was going to do this anyway, he allowed it to happen.
He's not the one who's lying, right? Right. Yeah. Well, that's the, just bringing up two points.
It doesn't sound like that's what's actually being said. Sounds like God's directly saying,
who's going to go? Yes. He's wanting to commission someone to lie. Two is that this kind of brings
up the whole youth afro argument of like, does God do good because good just is without God? Or,
or has God above what is right and wrong and justice and can do what he wants? And in this case,
if I were stuck trying to be honest with this text, I would say God's above right and wrong.
Yeah. I would have to. It's good because God does it. Exactly. So it's whatever God does,
even if it's bad for us, it's actually good from his perspective, his point of view. And that,
whatever God chooses is right. Paul says, who are you, oh man, to answer back to God? Can the thing
made? You get the point. Yeah. And the issue here is if you, you know, if you don't take that approach
and you wrestle with it because, you know, God who cannot lie, you know, like these are,
this is sort of a theme, particularly as I think as the theology develops, but, you know, you start
to make these sort of special pleading cases. And my response when I hear this sort of thing
is like, I'm using a microphone, right? Like I'm not directly recording onto
that SD card. It's, it's this electric signal that is, it's actually the microphone
that's doing it, right? It's not me. And so I can't really be blamed for what's being said here
is the microphone that's doing it. But of course, no one like this is a microphone. It's designed
to transmit my message, right? That's what it's for. And so no one, you know, would, would be able
to say, Oh, well, he didn't really say it. It was the microphone that said it. Like that it doesn't
work that way. And in this case, that's all the spirit is. And if certainly this is all the
prophets are. And the other interesting thing about this that's sort of the further complication
to be thrown in is the fact that Makaya lies as well. And that's something that I think is missed
in the story when you read it, you know, because it's funny, but you don't really pick up on it,
is that had they had not pushed back, they would have walked away going, Yep, all good,
awesome. Yeah. And Makaya would have also lied. Right. So this is, this is an incredibly
problematic passage. But again, it speaks to, I think this problem that we have with like a
systematic theology, because when you, when you come to ancient texts, and you're coming to them
through the lens of a later text, or a theological structure that you've put over top of a later
text that then reinterprets the earlier text, you run into these problems. I am constantly getting
after people on on Twitter and in the comments space of my own YouTube channel about how badly
people misunderstand these texts, because they are, they are, they are not in a position,
or they're not able to even imagine a different world from our world. Like in this is not,
I mean, I don't think it's too strong to say that when the Deuteronomistic historian wrote
this story, and the first people were reading it, I don't think they were troubled by the fact
that Yahweh was intentionally deceiving Ahab. Because on the, I mean, on one hand,
they can't stand Ahab. So they're like, all right, yeah, man, just whatever. Yeah. So whatever you
got to do to Ahab is fine. But the other thing is people in antiquity, including the ancient
Israelites, the, they had this perspective of God, which was very much like just, you know,
people, but more, everything that people can do, the gods can do, but, you know, on a much
grander scale, including lying. A question that I've never really thought of before and told us,
just you were, just now as you were talking about Micaiah also having to lie, it makes me wonder
when he spills the beans at Ahab's insistence and gives up the game basically and says, you know,
this is, this is what's going on. Is he defying Yahweh at that point? Because he's telling the
truth now. He's now telling, he's given up the game. Yeah. Right? I mean, fortunately, fortunately.
They go through with it and they end up going and fighting this, this, this battle with Ramah
Gilead. And one of them dies. Is it, is it Ahab or is it, it goes just as it's, as, as Yahweh
says, they lose, right? And there's this other great, great, great image in the story where
it says that the, that the dogs drank the water with the blood of the kings in it and the whores,
the prostitutes bathed in it too. But yeah, so it ends up going the way Yahweh intended for it to
go, but it ends up going badly for, for Ahab, but not, no thanks to Micaiah at that point. Yeah.
I just make one comment about what you said, Josh, and this goes into this whole,
he spills the beans. I find it interesting, of course, that they already expect them to be negative
in everything. What really makes that weird for me, all right, we keep assuming Ahab's the bad guy.
Okay, you know, we've done this several times when we talk to Christians, when the Bible says
those other people that we go and conquer and take their women and whatnot, they deserved that. Yeah.
I wonder about the real Ahab, if he even deserved any of this. And so like the question I have is
like, if there is this Micaiah, and he's like, always giving bad negative report from Yahweh,
what does that say about Yahweh? What does that say about how angry and how, what kind of God is
this? And this is why I think having this ancient Near Eastern context is so important in these,
in these circumstances, because like if you look at the Assyrian Empire, for example,
the Assyrian Empire is sort of one of its mission statements is we're going to campaign
annually, right? That's what we're going to do. And, but before they go on these campaigns,
quite often you have these types of oracles, you know, they're doing the same thing. What
they're doing is they're provoking a message to be given by the gods, right? So it's like, okay,
like, tell us, tell us if we're going to do this. So you have this whole host of, for some reason,
I'm blanking on the name now, but they're these, these tablets to the sun god, they're like invocations
to the oracles of the sun god or something of that effect. But they're, you know, they're saying,
give us a good, you know, give us a good yes, if we're going to, you know, supposed to go forward
on this campaign or supposed to go and do this other thing. And so that if, if you do have a
consistent return from your person who is designated or appointed to speak to the deity, and they're
always coming back with no, no, no. If you think about what the Neo-Syrian mission was, it's working
on behalf of the deity to march against these other nations. And so the, the god himself,
as you were saying, in a sense is, is not doing what he is supposed to do from that perspective.
So just in a nutshell, let me make sure I'm right. I love this. Gods of nations, because they were,
they were, as Paula Frager said in phrase, that great article one time or she did a lecture,
the, the gods are in the blood. So like nations or tribes are usually connect, like the, the piece
of land or the people of that land are usually connected with their deity in some way. That god
is usually supposed to protect and, and when they would fail to do so, that was a failure of a god.
And oftentimes other people would adapt that deity because that nation would conquer or whatever.
Oftentimes. Here we have Yahweh explicitly working against, if you take this narrative
in the ancient Near East, against his own people, the king of his own nation. And he's like really
wanting these other nations. He wants to lie so that Ahab will go and get his, you know what kicked,
ass handed to him. Next thing you know, it's like, yay Yahweh, we punished our own people.
Yeah. Like over and over and over this happens. And this, like this is why, first of all, it's no
accident. Right. I mean, as you were talking about the Deuteronomist, like if you think back to
Deuteronomy 28, like this is the point, right? Deuteronomy 28 is like a parallel version.
See, with some distinctions from like Leviticus 26, but it's all of these. If you obey me,
hear all the blessings that you're going to get. If you disobey me, I'm going to curse the fuck out
of you. Right. And it's part of this, like Neo Assyrian vassal treaty formula. And so when the
Deuteronomist is writing, why is it that Yahweh is always coming back with negative answers?
And it's because the kings are wicked, right? They're not doing what they're supposed to be
doing. And so it's ultimately spun back to, it's what's the king, right? It's the people,
it's the rebellion, right? But in reality, what's supposed to be happening is that the
God is supposed to be working on behalf of the people through this just, pious, righteous king
who's going forth and, you know, marching against these other peoples on behalf of the deity.
But it is, it is all spindle. Yes. Right. Like, and I think that's, that's one of the things that
very fascinating, in particular about the Deuteronomist, because Ahab is the grandson
of Omri. On the basis of the literature that we have of the period, on the basis of what,
what the archeology tells us, Omri controlled, he was a very, very successful ruler. He had a
dynasty that was probably unrivaled in its, in its wealth, power, reach and influence within
this region in the period. He's barely mentioned by the Deuteronomist. Like the Deuteronomist
does not care. And this is intentional. And I think this is the, lots of, of what, what's going on
politically here is playing out in this story. Jehoshaphat is the one who's, who's, you know,
coming up and, and giving Ahab the, the right advice of what he should be doing. Right. But
this is all very much, it's, it's very much playing out this little brother syndrome,
where you've got tiny little Judah who's out here in the hinterlands. In reality, this is a,
they are barely a kingdom. Like it's, it's a, it's, it's a, it's a, it's a city on a hilltop that
controls this, this little area. And, and, uh, I had an apologist get really upset at me one time
because I referred to it as a backwater. It is. Right. And it's not a backwater. Same person that
got upset at me for talking about the ancient Israelite cult. Oh boy. But this is, but this is
like, like this is the Deuteronomist is painting this picture that is so, it is so contrary to
reality throughout his entire work, where he's got to do everything he can to downplay the success
of the Omri, the Omriah dynasty, which includes Ahab. And that's why Ahab is the brunt of so
much of the criticism of the Deuteronomist throughout this, because he's, he's working against
the success of this, this realm. And really, I think this is one of the ways, one of the only
ways in which he can, he can offer to explain this is that Ahab was just this, this terrible bad guy
who thwarted or attempted to thwart Yahweh at every, at every turn. And this is like the, the,
the Deuteronomist has to, has to just kind of pile up all these, these accusations against him
at every point. And this is why the reason I think that this is important to do, and it's
something to fight back against in the mind of the Deuteronomist is because there is this one-to-one
correlation in the mind of, you know, ancient, ancient Near Eastern writers, that if there's
a successful kingdom, that God is on their side. Yeah. Right. So like when you think about the
Umma-Lagash border conflict back in the third millennium, the early dynastic period, the reason
that Lagash is winning against Umma is because Nin Geersu was like in the spiritual realm behind
the scenes fighting on their behalf. That's why they're winning. Right. And so if you have a
successful Ahab, well, that, that, that you, you would have to conclude that Yahweh is on their side.
And that, that's, that's not what you want. So you, you, as you say, you take and you try to spin it
to make him the bad guy. Manasseh has a particularly long reign. Yes. You know, and of course, who's
the child's sacrifice guy, you know? So, yeah, I mean, I think these are the worst, the worst king
in, you know, all of Israel. But what did he reign like 50 years or something? Yeah, something long
as rain. It's this ridiculous long reign. And by all, you know, it certainly looks like, we have
some reflection of this in Deuteron, or sorry, in the book of Jeremiah, I think when in Jeremiah
chapter 44, there's, there's, there's a section where the people are sacrificing the Malakha,
Hashem, the Queen of Heaven, right? And I think this is kind of a kind of a reflection on what life
was like in the old days. They say, they tell Jeremiah directly this, you know, back when we,
you know, we've always sacrificed, we've, we've always worshiped the Queen of the heavens. We've
always offered libations to her. And over this period of time, you know, we were safe, we were
well looked after, we had enough to eat, our lives were good. So why wouldn't we continue to do this?
You know, and it just, it's, it's this weird, it's this weird reversal that the Deuteronomist and
several of the other prophets are constantly doing throughout the Hebrew texts where they, they can't
really do otherwise, because these, these kingdoms were successful. So this, this is a really interesting
point. It spins us back to God, Yahweh. Okay, you're talking about the Deuteronomist, which means
we're probably talking about the Yahweh source here. And in, in that, we're looking at who is Yahweh.
It's a worthy question to ask this nomadic deity who doesn't really seem to want kingdoms. I did
not want you to have a king like the other nations. I wanted you to be, you know, and it's almost like
every time the voice, which is really the person or the author that's conveying it. I did this to
John Dominic Cross, but God said, God never said with his Irish accent, the men in the text wrote,
God never said. So we need to understand who these people are and their God and their God seems to
be the opposite of, well, we did this in the first video on God lying, which was the, the ziggurat
is the peak. No, that's the, the lowest point you can go is to go up. And so down is up and up is down.
Everything is opposite as you described. Great kingdoms are bad news, not good. You need to,
you need to go and be nomadic tribesmen in the wilderness, listen to that still calm voice that
you get after being dehydrated for 80 hours and not eating and hallucinating in the wilderness.
That's Yahweh, go meet him. I mean, I'm being funny with that, but the point is this God and what
this God wants seems so contrary to a typical civilized deity that is known in the world.
It's odd to me. It's just really odd taking this, where's the blame game, right? I would say,
obviously they think God wrote this, well, then you put it on God. Now, since we aren't
in a position saying we think this God is real, then it makes me want to know who are these people
and where do they get these concepts and why do they want opposite from what looks to be satisfying
as a kingdom, ruling, having power, all of this. Where did that ideology come from?
I mean, that's an incredibly complex question. I mean, I think one of the things that we have
to remember is when these texts are being compiled, when they're being written, and some of the
questions that are rattling around in the minds of the authors are like, why has it played out
the way that it has? And so a perfect example of this, right, would be something like in the book
of Daniel, Daniel and Daniel chapter nine, you have this lengthy, beautifully written section
that talks about Daniel reading through essentially reading through the book of Jeremiah,
which is playing and this is being sort of put together with Leviticus 25 and probably parts
of Leviticus 26. And coming up with this like theological explanation for why it is that
shit's still bad. Why are we still under the thumb of all these other powers? And so again,
setting this back into the sixth century then and making Daniel have this understanding of,
wait a minute, why is it that we're here? Oh, it's actually not 70 years that we're supposed to be
in captivity, but 70 times seven, because that's what Leviticus 26 talks about. And it's, but it's,
again, it's trying to make sense of the political situation in which they find themselves in contrast
to what they would have expected at the time. And so I think we need to be really careful when we
read these texts to be able to say like that one more thing that I'll point out when you read through
something like Leviticus 26 or Deuteronomy 28. So many of the things that you see as if you disobey,
this is what will happen. Read through the Deuteronomistic history and watch them take
place. And it's no coincidence, right? When it says like, don't multiply to yourself horses as a king
and don't multiply to yourself wives. What the hell Solomon gets a bunch of a bunch of horses,
a bunch of wives, like it's like, two plus two is four. So again, I think that there's this,
I'll call it beautiful, because I mean, I really think that it is from a literary standpoint.
And from an artistic standpoint, you have this amalgamation is trying to work together
of the political situation in which they find themselves trying to explain it theologically,
but yet trying to reflect the reality as they saw it on the ground. It's very, very complex.
Right. So to put it in another way to answer my question, which we there might be an ideology
back there, we just don't know exactly where the influence have come from for opposite ideology.
But if we're not looking there for the source, the other sources, just look out your window or
just look out the front door. That's your reality. Everyone, Jim Bob, Billy's, Susie,
everyone out in the ancient world would have seen these things, had to have dealt with them.
And so in their mind, they rationalized it by saying, well, this is this is the faith that
obviously our God has given us. And so rather than blame their God, and sometimes they do,
sometimes the prophets cry out, why, Yahweh, have you done this? You know, and then they kind of
will put it on him, spin it on him and say, hey, turn your people back, you know, because obviously
they got to blame somebody and it can't be God the whole time. It's kind of weird. I imagine
maybe if we flipped it around and said the Assyrians, did they ever blame their gods?
Oh, of course. Yeah.
They blame them for the failures that they got defeated by the Babylonians.
Yeah, I mean, think about when Shutra Nuhunsa, you know, takes the steel leaf Hammurabi,
right? And then he's, the steel is brought back. This whole notion is that Marduk has said,
you know, I'm out of here, right? And when the deity leaves, because he's, you know,
he's abandoned them sometimes, or they've been disobedient, whatever, it reflects this, this,
what do we call this, hedge of protection that the deity puts up. And so the explanation for
why this has happened, it is because think about the Sumerian king list, and then I'll be quiet.
But if you think about the Sumerian king list, or you think about the curse of Agade, these literary
texts, everything focuses on, there is a period of time that the gods have allotted for a king to rule,
for a dynasty to rule or whatever. But, you know, Naram Sin tries to buck against this, right? He
reads the omens, he doesn't like them, so he tries to buck against this. And like, it all goes bad for
him. And that's the message that the literary texts and these lamentational liturgies and all
these things are trying to get forth, or put forward, is that the gods are the ones that say,
this is where the kingship will sit for now, but as soon as they want to take it back up and put
it somewhere else, lo and behold, it's when that city falls, right? And so it's something that makes
things make sense for them. This works, I was going to say, this kind of works in reverse too,
because what you take a look at what Cyrus did when he came into Babylon, what did he do? He
came in and said, so Nabonidus has bucked, because he's kind of a weird guy. And he's out of the,
he's not part of this ruling family that has controlled Babylon during the Neobabalian period.
And one of the weird things he does is he abandons the Temple of Marduk and he goes off and starts
worshiping Sim. So what does Cyrus do? When he's beginning his campaign against Babylon,
he starts promoting himself as the servant of Marduk, coming to save the city of Babylon from
this terrible ruler who was, he's the one who betrayed Marduk. I'm the savior. And where else
is he a savior? Yeah, I mean, Cyrus got the best of the best. He's a suffering servant.
Yeah, he gets, I mean, it's a very, very canny political move to assume that role, right?
What I do think is interesting, just on tying the bow there, I think you'll also agree, is that
how they have built their framework with their deity, notice we don't have Marduk worship today.
I mean, if there's someone it's not systematic. It's not like it hasn't been an ongoing religion
ever since. Notice all of these kingdoms and all of their gods and their beliefs and these gods
really have fallen apart. But you have a unique people who kept their deity and it's almost like
they created this loop in their theology to always still keep God, whatever happens to us,
whether it's completely horrific and God lets us be killed in gas chambers, the horrific Holocaust
situation to, hey, we went back in 1948 and we're getting land back. We're back in the, maybe we
build a temple one day. It doesn't matter what happens. And while I see that as clever personally
as a humanist, as someone in a world where we, I want to break down those kind of divisions and
stuff, I think it's sad for me. I understand there's beauty and you can look at it two different
ways. It's interesting, but I find it ironic that they've made a system to where there's no way to
finally look for most that are in it to go, okay, come on. Is Yahweh really over us, really controlling
us or is it us all along? This is what I think makes this type of hermeneutical approach that the
text does itself so interesting. And to be just a quick caveat, like I said, the suffering servant,
I don't think that Isaiah 53 is actually about Cyrus. I was referring to just the servant,
I shouldn't say suffering, but anyway, because I know somebody's out there listening.
But if you look at intertextual exegesis, we just talked about it right in the book of Daniel,
but you see this in apocalyptic literature in general. And so it's one of the reasons that
Christianity is able to maintain what they've maintained, because the way that apocalyptic
literature is structured, we did an interview with, oh my gosh, why am I blanking on his name? He's up
at the Virginia Theological Seminary, Stephen Cook, and he wrote a really nice book on apocalyptic
literature. And what he said was, and of course he's not the only one that said it, but I mean he
pointed it out, that the ambiguity of apocalyptic literature allows it to be something that is
fulfilled now, but not yet, fulfilled now, but not yet. And the way that he described it, I thought
it was a really apt analogy, was if you're driving up a mountain, and there's a road that's been cut
along the outside of this mountain, and it's going up in concentric circles, if you get too
close to the edge, you're looking down, and it's like, oh, that's really close, steer back. And
if you come, oh, we're really close to the edge, and steer back, well in each case, you're looking
at the end, right? You're looking at your end. It's not a different end in the sense that it's
the same one that you're looking at each time, but it's at different points that you're looking
at the same one. And so the way that apocalyptic literature was structured, it's like the, when
they would make specific predictions about like Antiochus IV Epiphanes, it's like they were getting
really close to the edge in their minds in this interpretive structure, they got really close to
the edge, but God pulled them back, right? So it's not that it failed, they got to see it a little bit,
but then it came back, right? And that allows this sort of, yep, that was the end, but not really,
and so it can be, it can be more of the same, the same stuff as playing out in the Dead Sea Scrolls,
in the Kumaron literature. One of the things that you see that's consistent within their own
self understanding. So we look at the literature, and in our attempts to reconstruct who these people
are that wrote the text, we know some things, we know that there was some sort of dispute within
the Jerusalem Temple, we know that the leader of the community was disenfranchised as a result of
this, we're pretty confident about this having been something that took place. The problem is we
don't know when, because the wicked priest was a guy who had a name, but frustratingly, the writers
of the Dead Sea Scrolls don't ever use those names. And I think this is part of why, like they are,
they are living in this already, but now yet kind of point of expectation, where there is some kind
of subconscious realization, I think that as close as these people feel like they are to the end,
to the day of the Lord. There's something there, which is part of this, right? Like we're watching
this history unfold. It's happening before our eyes. The prophets have told us, and we can see
our existence, our life, our everything's unfolding just as the prophets said, but I think there's
some recognition in there that in order to ensure the circulation of these ideas, or these texts,
we can't name names. We can't be too clear about everything that's going on. So that's how, you
know, you end up with the Teacher of Righteousness. Was there just one Teacher of Righteousness? Was
this a figure spawned other Teachers of Righteousness through the history of the Cumbulon community?
Was there always just one Wicked Priest, or were there other Wicked Priests that they could point
to and say, huh, yeah, you know, this was spoken of in our own literature. You can almost see,
I mean, the Dead Sea Scrolls community, the people who wrote and collected them, it came to an end
at, you know, with the destruction of Jerusalem and with the invasion of the Romans during the
Jewish War. But what would have happened if that hadn't happened and they had continued? Would they
have started to re-consult these texts and start to point to a new future, you know, new priests of
new Wicked Priests and new Teachers of Righteousness? This is how something like this becomes a literary
genre. And I see it today, even with people talking about the Euphrates drying up, like how many times
has the Euphrates come close to drying up? I mean, you know. Well, think about that show, Parks and
Rec. I mean, I think it's a perfect example of it, if I do say so myself. Both of us are cool.
There's a cult that meets once a year to have the end of the world. There's a big dragon that's
going to melt everybody's flesh off or something. And of course, it doesn't happen and nobody's
surprised. And so you see him at the very end of the show that the cult leader comes up and he says,
you know, he's got an old tattered book there. And he goes, I was as surprised as anyone that he
didn't come back. But I went back and really dug into the text. And I realized that I hadn't
accounted for this year. So it's actually going to be next year on May 27th. So if we could
book the park then and Leslie no looks down at her because he goes, Oh,
May 27th is an ice cream social. And he goes, Oh, did I say May 27th? There's another day that it's
May 28th. And she goes, Yeah, it's free then. He goes, Okay, great. So he goes, And if you could
put us down for a couple of tickets that ice cream social. But I mean, that's what it is, right?
It's this ability for the text to reinterpret itself in that in that odd sort of way, the way
that Daniel can look and or the writer of Daniel can look and say, Why are we sitting here in the
second century? And it's still all in pop. Let's have Daniel figure out that it's not just 70 years
of Jeremiah 25, but it's actually 70 times seven, because that's what Leviticus 26 tells us.
And it gives that now 490 years instead of 70. Amen. Amen. Yeah. You know, there's underscores
though, too, the that what what some what happens, what what makes scripture scripture?
One of the things that makes scripture scripture is, is this idea that there's, there's, there's
something magical embedded within the text that you didn't see the first time that you looked at
or the second or the third time. But maybe, you know, there's always new things that you can,
you can see within the text. It's kind of interesting that that Daniel is set on this,
this passage of Jeremiah, and he understands this as a prophecy of expectation, right, that
the exile is going to come to end, come to an end after 70 years. That's his focus.
Within the original setting of that text, this, this is, this appears in a letter that Jeremiah
delivered to the captives who were living in Babylon from the first, from, from the first
captivity, which took place in, in five, I think it was 590, 597 or 594. The first, the first group
went to go live in Babylon, Jeremiah supposedly writes this letter to them. And the reason he
writes this letter and the reason he says this to them is not to encourage them that they're
coming back. He says to them, because what's going on is in Babylon, they're going, you know,
in two years, we're coming back. Jeremiah has to write to them and go, no, no, no, no, no,
stay put, build houses, give your sons and daughters for marriage and, and marry because
it's not going to be two years. It's going to be like 70 years, right? This is not, this is not a,
a prophecy of hope. This is a prophecy of cool your jets, man, you're stuck for a long time.
So, but, you know, Daniel's able to turn that into something and, and this is all we can think of
when we look at this, at this, uh, this passage anymore, just because of the interpretive lens
that's been, that's been set on it. It almost doesn't, it almost surprises people when they
go back and they look at it and they think about it and they're like, oh, wow, it actually meant
something completely different than I ever imagined it did.
