Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, genocide.
All the fun topics.
Yeah, you know, it's a delightful thing to discuss.
Genocide is a very positive thing, I guess, no, I'm just kidding.
Obviously, it's horrific.
The Bible seems to condone such actions, but let me not say that.
Let me not.
Let me allow you to be the one who takes all the heat.
So I used to defend the Bible and when you're seeing it from that side, from that point
of view that your God is right, he could do no wrong.
No matter what he says, then you hear and I want to give one modern analogy for example,
and this is horrible.
I know I'm going to catch some crap for this, but just making the point, a woman heard the
voice of God and drowned her four children.
God told her to do it.
That's an extreme case.
Obviously, even Christians will go, well, that's not us, obviously, that's psychosis
or insanity going on.
But the principles are the same.
So God of the Bible is condoning such actions in 1 Samuel 15 with King Saul.
Can you tell us like pretend no one knows they're watching us and maybe they don't?
What happens in 1 Samuel 15?
What's God saying to do?
And then we can get into other examples.
Sure.
Yeah.
So in 1 Samuel 15, this is sort of the quintessential example that comes up in Atheist versus Christian
Apologies Debates, because it's so clear.
In 1 Samuel 15, Saul is king and it's in this series of stories in the book of Samuel that
Saul is shown to be the one that's not the good king, right?
And he's going to be rejected.
And David is going to be the one that's actually God's anointed.
And so this is part of the story where Saul's being rejected.
This is sort of like one of the one of the two places that I'm thinking of where he's
he's overtly rejected.
And God comes to him and says, OK, I want you to go strike Amalek.
Go wipe them out, right?
And it wouldn't be as I mean, it would be bad, but it would just be another bad example,
I think for for atheists or skeptics to bring up, except that he specifically says men,
women, children, infants, babies, right?
Sheep cattle.
In other words, it's like everybody.
It's not just go kill all the, you know, males 20 years and older that are combatants.
And every living thing.
Yeah.
I mean, it's like scorched earth is what we're, you know, what we're talking about.
You're not even supposed to take their goods from what I understand or something.
I could be wrong, but.
So this is what's called harem in Hebrew.
And that word is translated a bunch of different ways.
But it's it's you hear it called the ban.
You know, these people are under the ban there to be utterly destroyed in the verbal form.
But basically, and it's a complicated word to sort of sort of translate, but it's to devote
to destruction.
But it's to devote in such a way that it's set apart for Yahweh, it's set apart set apart
for God.
So these are his things now.
These are set aside devoted to him.
And of course, the way that that manifests itself, if you're devoting something to the
deity, it's you destroy it, kill it, whatever.
So and the Hebrew Bible is not the only place that we see this.
We see this in the major inscription as well, this sort of devoting something to destruction,
wiping them all out.
Could I use a modern language to kind of get if this is something that relates to us when
we say, oh, you're about to meet God.
Yeah, it's like saying, I'm devoting you to God.
Me, I'm about to kill you.
Yeah, I think that's fair.
I think that's fair.
Even though it's more sacred looking in the ancient Bible, kill them all like God sort
of.
You know, that sort of thing.
Yeah, a little different.
But yeah.
I'm with you.
I'm with you.
You feel me, brother?
So so here in the passage, Saul, you know, goes with with the Israelites and he kills
everybody except the king and some of the choice sheep and cattle.
And so Samuel comes back and this is important that they kill everybody else, just they spare
the king and some of the choice, you know, animals.
And so Samuel comes back and says, essentially, so did you do it?
And Saul says, yep, good to go.
And you can almost picture Samuel going, what is the sound of sheep, you know, the sheep
bleeding in the in the background that I hear, ho hum, you know, uh, what ho, I think what
ho is the right one to use there?
Why do I hear then, you know, the noise of these, these cattle and it's in a sauce like,
uh, well, well, well, well, the people, the people spared, you know, some of the best,
the best sheep to sacrifice to Yahweh because, you know, we really wanted to sacrifice to
Yahweh.
And um, so anyway, um, this narrative gets, you know, brought up quite a bit because it's
like from our modern standpoint, it's quite egregious.
God's calling for the genocide of the Amalekites.
And so a very, very, very, very, very often Christian apologists will go, but, but, but,
but, but, but, um, it can't mean what it says, right?
It can't mean what it seems to say in the English.
So they'll point out in later in First Samuel, the Amalekites, David fights the Amalekites.
And so with the, oh, well, it can't mean then that they were supposed to wipe them.
This must be hyperbole hyperbole.
Same thing in Canaan Conquest.
Yes.
It's hyperbole.
It's hyperbole.
Um, if you're interested in seeing John Collins reaction to this, by the way, he, I asked him
this question when I interviewed him last year.
And basically his response was, nice try, nice try, you know, in that awesome accent
that he has.
Yeah, he does.
Um, I'd love listening to John speak, but, um, the narrative hinges in First Samuel 15
on the utter destruction of the people.
So we can talk about why the Amalekites show back up later for David to fight.
But the big thing is to look at the literary structure, the literary nature of First Samuel
15.
So the question that I asked, we had a debate with, um, Stuart and Cliff Connectley and
they brought up the elbows, you know, they show up later in First Samuel.
So this is just hyperbole.
So the first question that you have to ask, I think is like, so what, okay, so does that
mean that, what are they supposed to go tickle them?
What are they doing?
Like, what's the hyperbole?
Is the hyperbole, like go kill three of them, go kill five of them, rap battle, yeah, go
have a rap battle, right?
Is this, are they playing a football game against them?
What is it that be specific?
What's the hyperbole?
Because John, you know, Collins said, yeah, I think there's obviously hyperbole that shows
up all throughout the ancient Near East.
It doesn't mean they didn't kill anybody.
It means that they killed as many people as they could and said that they killed more.
I mean, Egypt does the same thing, you know, like, we annihilated the, uh, yeah, you see
it in the Merneptah Stela, for example, right?
The Merneptah Stela from 1207, um, talks about how Israel's seed is no more.
Right.
Well, I mean, obviously the seed is not no more.
Does it mean that they went up there and did arm wrestling matches with them?
No, you know, like they, they, they did some conflict with them.
They crushed them.
Yeah.
And that's the picture that they're trying to get across.
So okay, but the, the, there's a bigger problem in First Samuel.
You can argue those types of things, I think a little more convincingly in the book of
Joshua, for example, with the Canaanites, um, that, that maybe it's understood.
In the context, I still don't see that as being the right answer, but, um, there's
some aspects to it.
I think that, that, that can follow through like nine through 12 in Joshua.
But here in First Samuel 15, the narrative hinges on Saul killing everyone.
Right.
And so the question that I asked Stuart and Cliff was, okay, what's the hyperbole?
Is the hyperbole like who's, who's giving the hyperbole?
Is it God being hyperbolic to Saul?
In other words, is Saul, is God saying to Saul, hey, um, in the same way that a coach
would say to his football team, hey, go massacre, you know, the Steelers in this game.
Do the, is the hyperbole understood by the players?
Because the players don't go out and kill, literally kill the other team.
They understand this is hyperbolic language.
And so they act accordingly.
And what would be the punishment for him?
I mean, animals only, like, oh, well, you, you reserved animals.
That was it.
I mean, Samuel seems to be mad not only at the animals, but he, he reserved a king.
Yeah.
And, and so this is sort of the, the issue if Saul understands, like football
players understand, go massacre the other team, why in the world is God upset?
Right.
Because Saul could just go, whoa, whoa, whoa, it's like, you know, it's like the
Pee Wee League coming back over to the sidelines and the coach saying, Hey,
how come you didn't take that AK 47 and mow all those players down?
I told you to massacre them.
Right.
Like they would go, whoa, whoa, coach, that's hyperbole, which you're, it's a
figure of speech that you're using.
Right.
So in this sense, if, if Saul understands God to be hyperbolic and use this sort of
massacre language, Saul would have turned around to Sam and said, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, wait a minute.
You said, you said, wipe them out.
What you meant by that was that was hyperbole, hyperbolic.
For XYZ.
Yeah.
That's the, you didn't mean kill them all.
Right.
Right.
And that's what makes what you're saying.
You're building up something so powerful right here.
You're, it's all on God right here, because what's really scary and dangerous about
this is he's mad.
You didn't do worse to them.
Yeah.
That's exactly right.
He's already done horrible according to the narrative.
Like, and it's, and that's the thing.
I think we've got to be able to understand what the ban is to these
ancient Eastern societies and the ban, they didn't see it as a horrible thing.
Right.
They saw it as an absolutely necessary thing.
Saul in this narrative is cast in a terrible light.
And that sounds really weird to us because like you would expect Saul, at
least in some sense, has some form of humanity about him because he doesn't
kill everybody, but that's not what the narrative is doing.
The narrative is saying bad Saul.
In fact, the original readers of this would have Saul, that would have
Saul, Saul in negative light, because man, he didn't do it.
And then to them, like we talk about criteria of embarrassment, this wouldn't
be embarrassing to the ancient world ever.
Yeah.
To us today, we now realize, holy moly, woman just said, God told her to
drown her four kids.
That's not that ugly when you look at narratives and go, well, their parents,
you know, doing horrible things.
Now, I'm not trying to say that because technically there are, it seems
that God's not happy with Molek, right?
Burning children to the fire, things like that.
Obviously, but there seems to be hints at child sacrifice, you know, give
your first born.
So we can get into that.
You want to talk about it?
Bring it, baby.
We'll rat battle it out.
I'll annihilate you.
I will murder you.
Hyperbole in case anyone's wondering what I'm doing there.
Anyway, go ahead, Dr.
Josh, I'm sorry.
Yeah.
So I mean, I think the important you and you, I mean, you're hitting it, right?
The important thing here in the narrative is that Saul is rejected specifically
because he doesn't follow God's command through Samuel.
And the command was to kill everyone.
And the narrative says, did you kill everyone?
Yeah.
Well, except for the king and the sheep.
And so what happens to rectify it?
Samuel has to go and, you know, kill, um, kill the king, the Malachi king.
So in other words, the reason that Saul is rejected is because he
doesn't kill everyone.
So had Saul under, if this were hyperbolic language from God to Saul, Saul would
have said, wait a minute, you didn't, you didn't tell me that is if it's hyperbolic
language in the narrative, then the narrative doesn't make any sense.
Because again, Saul's, Saul is rejected because he doesn't kill everyone.
And you can see parallels to this sort of thing in places like the story of, um, Jericho,
right, with Rahab, if you think about Rahab, Rahab, the whole point of the narrative, if
you remember the story, you know, Joshua and Caleb come in and she hides them.
And when they leave, hey, hang the scarlet, you know, thread or whatever out the
window and we will, this house and anyone who's in it will be spared.
Well, if this is hyperbolic that they wiped out Jericho, well, that wouldn't be true.
It wouldn't just be anybody that's in that house.
It would be like, there'd be a whole bunch of people that were spared, right?
It's just, but, but the narrative focuses in on everything for the whole wall falls
except for this, right?
Everybody's killed except for Rahab and her family.
And the same is true with Akin, right?
If in the next chapter, I think it's chapter seven, um, Akin takes from things in Jericho
that are under the ban that are devoted to Yahweh, he takes some of them, right?
And hides them in this tent, right?
Yeah.
Underneath of his tent.
Yeah.
And, and so you can't, it's not hyperbole that that stuff has devoted to Yahweh.
It's everything is devoted to Yahweh.
So it's this complete, the complete aspect of it in the narrative.
Everything is devoted to Yahweh.
Everything.
Because if it weren't, Akin could be like, well, I mean, you know, like you didn't
mean everything, everything is hyperbole, right?
It's just a lot of stuff.
You have to devote a lot of stuff.
You almost did a Kent Hove in there.
I know.
I started to slip into that.
I felt that.
It was because I am talking about Dana, the Lord.
And of course that's, it's where the real spiritual, spiritual nature comes.
That was powerful, bro.
I could feel the hyperbole coming from your voice.
I did want to mention something and I want you to continue this.
This is such a great recording, by the way.
Saul killed his thousands.
David killed his tens of thousands.
In fact, that, to me now, sounds like a mockery of Saul not doing what David did.
That's exactly what it is.
David actually really did what God asked him to do.
Think about it.
Yeah.
That, oh, glory to David.
He actually annihilates people for God.
Like he does the job.
Oh, I'll get you twice the foreskin.
Don't worry.
I'll bring back the bloody foreskin.
I mean, this is how gory the book really is if you get raw.
But in the ancient world, I bet you you and me, we would think the same way.
Of course.
Not trying to play like reading it for what it is in its time.
Trying to say, this is what they say, but what you do.
Don't try to supplant it 3000 years into the future and pretend it doesn't say what it says.
This is what the apologists you debated are doing.
This is what other apologists are doing.
We want it to, once again, they want to say, you're corrupting.
You're trying to manipulate.
You don't want the Bible to be true.
You're attacking God.
No, we want to understand what the Bible says.
And guess what?
It's not as pretty as you want it to be for our context.
That's right.
Anyway, please continue.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
I mean, I know I think you hit the nail on the head.
And I think that in order to in order to come to a right understanding
and a right interpretive model of an ancient text, we've got to try to get back
to what it is actually saying, the best that we can.
And so if if you're starting with the conclusion that this is the inspired word
of God and it's like the basic instructions before leaving earth, right?
The Bible, which I think is really clever acronym.
But if you're if you're trying to live by it, if you're trying to let me just grab
the book because I recommend it so often, wherever it is, it's terrible
that I can't just find it.
There it is.
Sorry, you're good.
John Collins book.
What are biblical values?
Like read it.
This is such a good book.
He did such a good job writing it.
But, you know, basically what what Collins is saying is a Christian.
He's Catholic, right?
And I think he's Catholic.
Um, yes, by he's, I would say a cultural.
Yeah.
But I mean, like not antagonistic toward Christianity.
No, no, he just he just doesn't believe it.
Yeah.
If that makes sense.
He's traditional, but he's not.
He doesn't believe it.
But I think that the point is like he's not like anti, like anti-Christian is
right, right.
But his point in, in this book is that, look, you can't pick up the old
Testament, understand it in its context, and then apply it and create an
ethical system that will work today.
Don't do that.
No good.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, and his voice, I could hear him saying no good.
But this is the, this is, I think what happens is we, we come to the text
believing it to be a tool to create an ethical system.
Yet we have our own ethical system, our own morality that we've developed
over, you know, the past 2,500 years.
And we try to, we try to make them connect.
And so what that leads to is, well, the text can't really be saying that.
Because God is loving and loving God's don't do this.
So it has to, there's got to be a way to understand this, where it doesn't
mean that or that God has justified in doing it.
And so we, like, we start to go to all these different lengths when in
reality, what we should be doing is saying, okay, don't start with the
interpretation, start with the data points.
What is it that this text is saying?
What's the narrative structure?
What's the literary aspect of what's it trying to tell us?
Now, once we understand it, how should we be using this ancient text?
A good example of this that everybody would agree with is the Epic of Gilgamesh.
Right.
We, we, you don't start with, okay, we're going to base our values and ethics
on the Epic of Gilgamesh and then try to like read back into it and figure
out, okay, um, so we should be, uh, you know, disrespecting the gods and, uh, we
should be, uh, trying to live forever.
You know, like, sorry, I'm just trying to pull stuff out here, but it's all good.
Um, we don't do that.
What we do is we say, okay, let's start.
What is this piece of literature?
It's this tremendous story, epic story, uh, about how Gilgamesh goes
through this cycle of life and begins as this brash young man who's going to live
forever, make a name for himself, uh, by doing all these heroic things.
And he, he doesn't, he, he doesn't understand his own mortality and then
sees his friend die and goes on this journey to get immortality because he
recognizes the fragility of life and then ultimately comes to realize that the
way to have immortality is to have your name live on after you.
And it's, it's this cycle.
It's this process that he goes through.
Well, that's a beautiful, so once you understand that, what can we take from that?
Oh my gosh.
Well, life is, life is fragile.
Life is ephemeral, right?
It's, we're not always going to have it.
So what do we do?
Well, we try to, we try to live our best life.
You know, that's how you utilize an ancient text like that.
That's how Ecclesiastes used it, right?
Because Ecclesiastes is pulling from Gilgamesh.
That's the nature of that.
That's how these things work.
And so if we can look at the biblical text, let's take the story of first
Samuel 15, if we want to interpret it that way, all right, what's the story?
Sam, it's all supposed to do this thing.
Yeah, it's really horrible.
Okay, but let's forget about that for a second.
This horrible thing that he's supposed to do.
What's the message?
What's the principle?
What's the big thing that, what can we take from this?
Read a response sort of thing.
Well, obey God, right?
Do what, do what God says.
Sure.
And that we're going to forget about massacring people, right?
If God tells you to do this, there are going to be consequences.
If you don't, right, you're going to suffer in life.
If you don't, maybe that's the big picture thing to take from that.
Um, to, you know, it's better to obey God than to sacrifice, right?
So maybe that's a better one to take from this.
You obey God, don't try to come at it from your own perspective and your
own means disobeying God, thinking you're doing a good thing.
I do think that does play a part of what is intended, but like, I don't know how
you can run away from that context.
I don't know.
I think it's in, you bring up an example that is inescapable.
The one thing they might do is, like you said, they're going to try and get out of
this, wiggle out of this particular and try to do a reader aspect like we're
talking about, but I could imagine them immediately going, yeah, but do you know
how bad they were, these people they had to kill?
That's what I always hear.
Or do you know what they were intending to do to Israel?
And it's like, oh my goodness.
Right.
But see the thing is that this is, this is what I mean.
Um, understanding because understanding that ancient Near Eastern text would
also understand the propagandistic nature of that and how it's putting
salt down and building David up and understands all of that.
It's after you've understood it, all of those things.
That's what, so because you understand all those things, you then say, okay,
well, this isn't like a manual on how we're supposed to live our lives.
Like in detail, we're not supposed to, this isn't a rule book we're supposed
to go by.
We're supposed to, we can pick up big things from it.
We can pick up sort of principles, general principles from it in the same way
that you can read Pride and Prejudice, Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
And you don't live, you know, based on it, but you get, you get some like, you
know, um, uh, what's the, what's the moral of the story, right?
You know, sort of thing.
And so I think those, I think if you're going, in my opinion, if you're going
to revere the biblical text, that's the way to do it is to, what's the moral
of the story?
Let's not try to whitewash it and say that it's something that it's not.
Let's understand it in ancient Near Eastern context and then say, okay,
well, this was bad from our perspective, but from their perspective, what's
the moral of the story serve God, do what he says, don't do it in your own eyes.
So that means when I bring that into a 21st century context, when God says,
hey, love your neighbor, right?
I believe, yeah, I believe that I'm supposed to love my neighbor.
Well, you know, do that according to God's standard.
Um, you know, don't, don't do bad to your neighbor because you think
that's the right thing to do.
No, do, do, do what God says, even if it seems kind of weird, um, you know,
or counterproductive or whatever, like that, that, that I'm better with, I
suppose, um, certainly better with than trying to use it as some sort of a
step-by-step instruction manual on how to establish my values.
I can appreciate that.
You know, thank you.
Of course.
