In scholarly estimation, the earliest Christians, or Christ followers, are Jews. Yet this group
that starts to creep into the narrative of the Book of Acts, what we call Gentiles, is called
God-fears. And there are proselytes. What are these categories, and when did this stuff start
happening? Do we have any archaeological evidence that can help us guide us on understanding what
a God-fear is? Paula, Dr. Fredrickson, and I always spell that last day. I always mess
and put an O in, and I don't mean to. It's Norwegian, not Swedish. Very important distinction.
You must get offended and don't mean to. I'm so sorry. My fourth question is,
what evidence do we have of Second Temple Jews actively accepting non-Israelite God-fears
in the Jewish fold, or making full-blown Jewish converts out of non-Israelite proselytes?
Okay. I'm not sure why you're referring to them as non-Israelite. They're non-Jews.
And to be, we should define what a God-fear is. A God-fearer is somebody who is an active pagan,
who is also involved somehow with the synagogue community. And we have tons of inscriptions
of people like this, sometimes identified as they are sub-based God-fearer in the texts.
We know from other inscriptions that their husband had a day job as the priest of Zeus,
or my favorite is Julia Severa, who's a contemporary of Paul, who builds an
Eukosus synagogue building in Acmonia. Her day job as she's a priestess in the imperial cult,
we know from other inscriptions. She's a blue-blooded Roman who's also a sponsor of
the synagogue community. And how do we know this? Because these people, when they give
benefactions to the synagogue, they get a donor plaque, which was inscribed in stone,
thank God, so that people like me can find them and know that this was going on. You have
God-fearers referred to in literary texts. And that doesn't mean that they were making...
It's not like they were taking a conversion class and stopped dead in the middle.
They're just as pagans. It's a both-and Mediterranean model of just as you will have
Jewish inscriptions that call on Zeus, Gaia, and Helios, because that's a formula when you
manumit a slave. And those are erected, they do this in the prosuche in the prayer house,
which is the synagogue inscription, releasing my slave. In the name of God, the Almighty,
the Blessed, the Jewish benediction, manumitting the slave, calling as witnesses, sky, earth,
and sun, Zeus, Gaia, and Helios. And those are pagan gods dropping into the Jewish synagogues.
So there's a lot of Mediterranean mixing. And in the vernacular, you have words like
Hellenizing, Judahizing, Persianizing, to meat eyes, which means that even though you have
this idea of distinct groups, you also have an idea of people adopting some of the customs of
another group. And so there's... Godfures are these mixing pagans who are obviously welcomed
into the synagogue, or they wouldn't be getting donor plaques put on the walls of the buildings.
And I assume that that group would have been the group that Paul pulled his
ex-pagans out of, because they would have been already have some kind of biblical literacy.
Here's Paul talking about people like Abraham and David and Messiah, talking about a really Jewish
idea like the resurrection of the dead. This would have been a pagan group that would already be
prepared to know something about that, because Moses is heard every week in the synagogue.
So they're hearing these stories in Greek, Bible stories, and then apostles of Christ come into
town, they're able to work all these charismatic acts, and they form, I think, within the penumbra
of the synagogue, a group of ex-pagan pagans, which is not what a Godfure is. A Godfure is a
Judaizing pagan. Luke is very delicate about this. He doesn't mention that all the Godfures he talks
about in his synagogues are still pagan, but they are. That's what a Godfure is. Now, a proselyte
is somebody who's crossing over all the way. I think one of the best evidence we have of this
is, first of all, Philo, who talks about the necessity of welcoming the proselyte, and he uses
the word incomer for proselyte. And he likens Abraham as the first model for that, because
Abraham leaves the gods of his father and goes with the god of his. Somehow, it's not explained in
Genesis 12, but there are all sorts of stories about how this happens, that Philo and the blanks
later on. And we also have pagan, irritated pagans, observing that if a pagan Godfure is the father who
takes a nap one day out of every seven and starts avoiding pork, the next thing is his sons are
going to go all the way and be circumcised and give their allegiance from Roman law to Jewish law.
So, pagans also say that there's a full crossing over with what we term conversion,
and there's this both-and model of Godfuring. But that's our evidence for the fact that
proselytes were part of the mix. They're Jews of a special sort, but they're Jews. Well, it's
clearer for gentlemen than it is for ladies. Right, right. And that the process is obviously
different with the snipping. As far as Luke goes, a couple of questions. I've heard Dom recently,
he wants me to call him Dom. He says, stop calling me John, Dominic Cross, and Dr. John.
Call me Dom. He says he thinks Luke was written either to a group of or to an individual who was
this Godfure, God-lover. Theophilus, right. Theophilus. And then it's like, would identify with
the crowd. You're talking about this in between somebody who was probably full-fledged into the
God of Israel through Christ in some way. In Acts, which I think is the same author, probably wrote
Luke and Acts. Acts chapter 10, Peter, it's kind of a funny story to me. Oh, Cornelius.
Yeah, I'm kind of like, it makes me go, why did they- The angel's saying, come on, Peter. And I
don't know. Sounds more like a fiction to me of like writing like Peter would have been like this,
because I don't know. Well, generations of New Testament scholars and half of my undergraduates
think that Jews never ate with Gentiles, which we also know is completely false, because they were
members of professional guilds. And one of the things professional guilds do, these associations,
is you eat together once a month. And we know that we have Jews who are members of the purple
dyer's guild and something like that. So Jews and pagans eat together. And yet Luke, who's
shaping a good story, is making Peter at this dramatic crux be the first apostle to the Gentiles.
And so he's, it's drama, but the, I mean, the high priests entertained the Roman legate
during the high holidays when the Roman legate was in town in Jerusalem. They ate together.
I just find that story with Peter quite funny because they have him be the guy, right? Because
Paul in his letter says, I'm the one to the Gentiles. But then they have Peter go. And then
when Peter does, he's like, oh, what the heck? No. And then of course, there's- How do I do this?
Right. Right. And then he, oh, they are allowed in. And then, oh, they are welcome. I think there's
like a, I think there's a real reason he has Peter do it. But, you know, anyway, I don't want to read
too much into that. But as far as Cornelius goes, I think this person fits the categories that you're
describing here because- Perfectly. The term Godfair, right? Which is, if we're going to want to know
what the New Testament means when it uses this term as an academic, let's pretend I came to the
New Testament. All I've ever read, sorry, asking you as an academic, I'm a lay person. I read the
New Testament. I hear this guy named Cornelius. He becomes saved. He follows this Jesus moment.
Even the guys are like, what? Hold on. He's not supposed to- How come he's- But God changes something.
What is that? I don't understand. But the term Godfair is used. And you being an academic who's read
vast amounts of other extroverts- That's what I do for a living, right? Right. How would you convey
to me to convince me what a Godfair actually is? And if I asked you the question as a lay person,
who's not an expert, doesn't know the languages, never read anything other than the New Testament.
And I said, well, couldn't Cornelius have been a Jew who apostatized at one point and then came back?
Or, I know this sounds strange, but- Or an Israelite from the Northern Kingdom that might have become
a Gentile over time or- He's depicted as a Roman soldier in the text. Right. Right. I mean, you can
say, well, Luke didn't really mean to make him a Roman soldier. He's actually somebody who's on
vacation from the Galileo or something. But he's a Roman soldier, which means he's involved as an
officer. I mean, it's- Roman military units are religious units. The standards are like mobile
altars for sacrifices. You- It's not- Being in the military for a Roman means that you have
certain obligations to the gods of Rome. And if he's- But he also builds a synagogue and
is a Godfair, which is, again, this mix of you can be a pagan and you can also be part of a
synagogue community. And which is- Just makes good sense. If you're- Think of it, you're a minority
ethnic community within a larger pagan religious institution, which is the ancient city. What better
way to have good relations with your neighbors than to have no fences? Thank you. Thank you to
those who contributed in the GoFundMe on making this trip possible for these 12 recordings with
Paula Fredrickson. I want to give a special shout out to you. Your names are chiseled in history.
I also want to thank everybody who has become a patron of MythVision, making stuff like this
possible, taking academic work that is hiding behind all of these scholarships, all of these
colleges, and making it public. Public knowledge for everybody to learn.
