The, any kind of high god, a creator god especially, is essentially a fertility god.
Fertility was a particularly masculine attribute of both deities and human males in the ancient world.
And so any high god, fertility god, creator god worth his salt, is equipped with, you know, a sizable penis.
And it's a penis that's incredibly potent and fertile.
And so we find in a lot of these mythological texts, like both from, so this particular example about Ale is from the city-state of Ugarit,
which is on the coast of what's now modern-day Syria to the Mediterranean coast.
So around 14th century to 12th century BCE is when this particular city-state was at its height.
And this was a god who kind of, you know, performed a kind of a masturbation sex act to entice these two young goddesses to have sex with him.
And they completely buckle. They're incredibly impressed with it, have sex with him and they both get pregnant and they give birth to these, to more deities.
And you know, and this is quite normal in the sense that to have deities that, you know, there was no kind of embarrassment or hesitation about the idea that your gods could be sexually active.
They were sexual beings. They were sexually active. They enjoyed sex. They also used sex violently as well.
So they were very human-like in their sexuality, essentially.
So that's just, you know, just bog-standard, normal kind of stuff that gods get up to.
But then when we read in the Hebrew Bible about the nature of this deity, we find that this too is a deity who is sexualized.
This is a very masculine god. This is a god who's, as I've said, you know, very much human-shaped.
And he has male anatomy. He has, you know, a term that's a lot of ancient texts like to employ euphemism and word play and poetry, just because that was a convention of the time.
So for example, certain body parts stand in for other parts.
So thighs and feet are often euphemisms for genitals. The lips are often euphemisms for the vagina, you know, quite obviously.
You know, nakedness or flesh is often a euphemism for the genitals as well.
So, you know, we read certain texts where we get these clear allusions to Yahweh's genitals.
One of them is in Ezekiel, chapter one, where the prophet sees this, you know, sees this human-shaped god, his deity Yahweh sitting on the throne,
and the deity's body is covered with fire and lights and all sorts of kind of wondrous cosmic splendors.
Top half of his body is covered. The bottom half of his body is covered.
But the bit that's revealed are his, you know, his loins, which is, you know, that's the usual translation.
Actually, the word means it's quite straightforward. It's genitals.
So, you know, this was a deity who was equipped like any other male to create a fertility deity.
He had a penis and he knew what to do with that.
It's so bold. It's so bold. I love it.
Doesn't he say to Job, gird up thy loins like a man, like grab your, isn't this grab your cojones, we would say?
He's like, harden your balls, like, harden up, like, kind of get ready.
Yeah, it's sort of, it's a very masculine image. Yeah.
I used to hear this in the church and they would say, well, all they did was they tucked their tunic.
That's all they tucked their tunic. And I'm thinking to myself, my dad.
Yeah, they're just wrapping themselves. They're just like tightening their tunic so they can run.
Yeah, that's what I heard. And my dad, like, they, we still do this today.
Like, grab your balls, son. You know, like, like he's just tough masculine alpha male from Special Forces, military retired and all.
So he's like, and so warfare. Let me, let me give you one example.
We'll cover something here real quick as we get into this.
And I'm going to show this little image to get your personal thoughts on this here so we can take a look here.
So in particular, my buddy Stephen, he brought this to our attention.
There was a discussion about your book in one of these rooms.
Your book pointed out a potential mistranslation of a Hebrew word show,
which is understood to refer to the hem or a robe or to a robe itself.
You suggest that it's better understood as originally referring to genitalia.
You cite examples of where the term in question is used to refer to genitalia.
But when reviewing the examples, it seems like the term in context refers to the garment covering the genitalia,
rather than the genitalia and the LXX translated many of these examples as references into Greek as buttocks.
Can you explain what's going on?
In short, yeah.
So quite often what's going on in the Master Ethics text or in the Hebrew Bible text is that you quite often get the notion that
so elastic are these idioms and euphemisms that you get the idea that even something that, you know,
so in the prophetic texts, this word sure tends to be used for genitalia,
primarily female genitalia, because that's what gets talked about the most in the Hebrew Bible,
because normally it's in context of misogyny and condemnation and sexual violence.
So let's just get that out there.
These are very masculine texts written by men, for men.
So quite often with these euphemisms, it's almost like you get a sense of an extension,
so that by lifting a woman's skirts, you're exposing her genitalia.
But you get a slippage, like an overlap.
So for example, another example of a body part where you get a similar kind of thing happening
is when Yahweh says, I hurl my shoe on Edom.
That basically means he's trampling on Edom, but the shoe and the foot are so closely associated.
It's almost as if one is an extension of the other.
And that's exactly what's happening in those Master Ethics texts there.
By the time you get to the Greek translation, so the setiogen, which is produced around the third to second centuries BCE.
By the time you're getting to that kind of context, you're already starting to have this real resistance
towards both the idea of a bodily deity, but also resistance towards the idea of a discomfort,
much more of a discomfort with these sorts of explicit body parts, these kind of genital body parts.
And so you get layer upon layer upon layer of euphemism building, if you like, an interpretation.
Wow. Yeah, I could see them hiding this.
You mentioned the bow, right?
I'm going into certain examples that I thought were interesting as I read along.
The bow that is the promise, I will not flood any longer, right? This rainbow.
It represents a war bow too. Sex and war are related. Sex and war.
My question was simply, is that bow a euphemism for God's penis?
Yeah, but it's a euphemism, but it's also, again, it's kind of doing double duty a bit like the example we just talked about.
So a lot of scholars agree that a lot of that genesis material early on that talks about creation and the flood
is obviously riffing of much older Mesopotamian stories.
So, you know, we all know there were older versions of the flood story that was circulating around much older.
So in one of those collections of mythological ideas about the origins of the world
is the story of Marduk, the god of Babylon, who defeats Tiamat.
This kind of this shape-shifting kind of primeval goddess of salt water.
And, you know, and he defeats her with various, you know, the world is created, the cosmos is created from her dismembered body parts, basically.
But in the process of that battle, one of the things that Marduk uses against her is his war bow called deluge.
And quite often Babylonian scribes would just summarize the story by just saying, oh, yeah, you know, Tiamat, who Marduk defeated with his penis.
So his war bow was equated with his penis.
There were both symbols of ferocious, hyperposen, aggressive masculinity, you know, and these are, you know, the bow is a penetrative weapon.
I mean, you know, it needs to be a genius to kind of follow through the idiom in that sense.
So yeah, when we have this little kind of image of Yahweh's bow, his rainbow is doing double duty as both a bow, a war bow and a rainbow as a kind of constellation, if you like, in the sky.
But it's also alluding to this very much older mythic motif of one god's defeating, basically, watery chaos, flood with the penis.
And you kind of get that rainbow imagery also in that Ezekiel text I just mentioned.
Where, like, when the prophet is looking on, looking at the genitals of God, he's couching it in terms of a rainbow.
So you're kind of like, mm-hmm, okay, yeah.
So you can see that correlation between, like, a divine bow, a penis and a rainbow.
So there's all sorts of kind of overlaying of mythic ideas, literary devices and euphemisms, poetic texts and intertextual readings of different sorts of texts, too, that have formed these particular biblical stories.
And join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that I have worked hard in the high quality content that are not in public domain.
They're only on the Patreon. You will also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas, or just want a private chat.
You have that access with me.
Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people from more academics and expand what kind of material I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full-time gig and you're helping the community by joining.
I'm trying to put together more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society.
You're educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many shows do.
So please, I could use your help and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
