Good morning. Derek Lambert here, host of MythVision. I wanted to discuss briefly why I think some
people have a beautiful God. They cannot imagine or see why. Why would I think God doesn't exist?
Or why would I go out of my way to be critical of the Bible or, you know, poke into these things
and show the flaws? And the reason I think a lot of Christians feel that way is they have a perception
of their deity that is this all-loving, really desiring to want to help and save everybody.
And I want to stillman that so that people understand I know what that's like. Before I became kind
of Calvinistic, my perception of God was that he really wanted to have a relationship with everybody.
He noticed coming from the biblical tradition. But I didn't really notice how ugly some things
are in the Bible. Many of the scholars I've had on who are still believers, they believe in a God,
have been with me in saying, this God painted here in the Bible, that's not my God. I do not
accept that idea. They've cherry-picked and created a kind of buffet of things that they
ethically line up with and have made that their deity. And I just wanted to comment why I think
that is. I've mentioned it before and in recent interviews when I just gave my testimony, you'll
see those probably on the internet being released. I talk about John Wathi, the scientist who talked
about pretty much humans are formed in their mother's womb for nine months. Everything they need
comes from this higher power called mom. And they literally neurologically are being wired to recognize
faces. They're literally growing in the belly, knowing voices, the whole nine. And we assume we
hear the voice of God or we want to see the face of God right now through a glass dimly, but
then face to face. Many of the biblical things that are being described about God and the relationship
between mankind and God really tap into this natural process of birth in the human and that
yearning desire of the child for its mother. The father plays a significant role as well.
And lots of scientists have gone into this, but I want to make the point that the mother usually
has always the best interest at heart for her child. And I think what we've done as humans is
we've applied that nurture psychological, emotional, the whole nine baggage of our mother.
And we've applied it to a deity who wants to look after us, a tender loving father.
All of those attributes are natural. And so the perception of most people's deities that I hear
that are not understanding why I'm doing what I do or poking into this is because they have that
mother type God, that loving, I really want to save everybody. I really am compassionate.
What tends to happen in the struggle I find is the more they take serious the Bible,
the more they find themselves having to refuse or reject the interpretation of some of this stuff.
They want to train gymnastics God out of certain ugly things or they cherry pick and choose to
still hold on because they love the perception of the God that they have. And that's what gives
them comfort, meaning, purpose, the whole nine. I would say that that God is reflection of them.
These people are beautiful people. These people have the best of intentions. They really want
this amazing world to be. They really wish bad wasn't there. They think their God really,
really loves and wants the best for everybody because that's really what they want. And I found
myself when I became a Calvinist, recognizing text where it says that God hates. And there's
the predestination idea, but the God actually hated Esau, but he loved Jacob, where God hates
the workers of iniquity Psalms 5, 5. And when I saw that God hates or some of the very ugly concepts,
I had to swallow a deity that just was really, really rough around the edges and very harsh,
which also made me a bit calloused in the way I tried to perceive the world. But it didn't work
because at some point I realized that there were people in my life that I loved that God probably
didn't love because they weren't going to accept my message of Jesus Christ, the gospel, the whole
nine. And it really did dawn on me. This wasn't the tipping point, but it dawned on me, do I love
some people more than God? And this was an honest question that I had. And so I ended up, you know,
come into a conclusion where eventually I couldn't recognize and square myself with that kind of
deity. So I want those who are skeptics, who are atheists, diagnostics, critical of the God of the
Bible, to recognize that most people who are reluctant or resistant to the ideas we bring,
first of all, they don't know another option. It's pretty much all they know. Without it,
they feel like all purpose and meaning in life are gone because what I think they're doing and
not realizing it is they would have to reject themselves because their God is truly a spitting
image of who they are and what they are interested in doing. The cognitive dissonance and wrestling
is when they're trying to match who they are with instructions found in an ancient books that has
certain rules, certain expectations, certain things that tell you about who God is from men.
And this brings me to John Jay Collins, one interview I had with him where I said, John,
look at what God said in Hosea and he had to correct me. He said, God did not say that, Derek.
Men wrote what this guy says God said. So whether the author was actually Hosea or someone pinning
in the name of Hosea, they're saying this is what God said. So it tells you more about the person
writing it than it does God. And this was a really important point. It helps me in my approach
to understanding why people believe, what they believe, who their God is and whatnot.
And as you dive into this further, you'll see maybe the ugliness that we find of God is from
Israelites who are under the worst kind of conditions or they're just not very kind people.
They want bad to happen to retaliate against their enemies or Israelites aren't listening to these
prophets. So the prophets are flipping out and their God's going to be angry at them. We see it
all the time today when things don't go certain people's ways. They ask God to come down, come back
and punish the wicked and destroy the enemy and things like that. And it's really a reflection
of their own emotions and their own what they want and desire. But overall, I think most of
Christians I've encountered who are listening to these loving songs of God's mercy and worship and
stuff and they want that. They want that love and tenderness, deity is really a reflection of them
and their ethics and their morals and what they want and their goodness that comes from them.
I think we all have a little bit of that. And so I just wanted to make this video to make the
point. I get it. Trust me, I get it. And I understand it's very complicated. There's so much to this.
I probably give myself symbolism and meaning. Suppose everything boiled down to chemicals
and the bubbling of particular compounds and chemicals in my brain that still wouldn't work
in terms of application. The brain in our sight or vision or senses and everything work with
shortcuts. We work with shortcuts. So symbolism and meaning to me also still applies. However,
I think the source is coming from me, not trying to assume some conscious agent beyond me that's
giving me that particular, if you will, meaning and purpose and all of these things that I'm
experiencing. And I figure I'd make this little video just to let you know that some people's
gods are pretty and they want to make that the God that they understand the Bible to be.
My advice simply would be this when I'm being critical. I acknowledge that you can still have
a pretty God if that's what you want. You don't need the biblical account to have that. Now you
may choose to continue with that and that's fine. I want you to understand though that you can have
your God without Christianity, without Judaism, without Islam. You don't need an Abrahamic faith
to have your God. You don't need any religion to have your deity. Now it helps to have people
you can socialize and have things in common with and to relate on these subjects. But
when I'm trying to be as fair and honest and actually assessing what the Bible's saying and
there's resistance to it, like slavery doesn't even mean slavery or God doesn't hate people and
they want to make hate not mean hate. That is when I start realizing there's dishonesty,
there's a dissonance I think they're having and they're trying to save their God from a perception
they don't like or don't want. And when you have to conform to what the text says and actually means
and you're trying to be as accurate as you can, I find that that God is not as pretty and as much
as we thought that God was. Because then you're going to wrestle with things of God. God's omniscient
really? There are very clear places where God does not know all things. But then there are places
where he knows the end from the beginning and which is it? Which is it? And there's so many
people who are trying to make sense of this stuff. So I hope that's encouraging to those who believe
and to those who aren't believers, I know that it's difficult sometimes dealing with people who are
overwhelmingly defensive because we're being critical. But I want you to acknowledge that and
see that oftentimes the deity that they're talking about that's loving and caring is really them
speaking about their mother or their father or their own perception because they're good people.
But they're making those leaps, right? So we're like, no, if there is a God, I need the date,
I need the evidence and I don't have that. And I understand. So both sides try to understand that
as much as you can. And I hope that people cherry pick their own deity if they're going to continue
to believe. I hope that we don't have to remain in ancient books where ethics were a certain way at
the time. Things were normal a certain way at the time. Cherry pick disagree with your prophets
disagree with these texts and understand that you don't need those to have that particular
relationship with the deity you choose. I know that's very heretical, but I think that that's
a necessary thing for progress in the human race. Thank you.
