Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Here we go.
This is a question from my friend, he posted this on my Patreon.
I can't remember his name, I'm so sorry, forgive me.
What is Dr. Collins, or Drs. Collins and Baden's opinion regarding the cult of Asherah, a female
deity worship mainly in the rural areas who was possibly considered the wife of Yahweh?
This is a position advanced by Dr. William Dever, and it's based on archaeological discoveries
of her figurines and areas where Yahweh worship occurred, more detail of course is discussed
there.
So, Asherah?
Well, Asherah was certainly worshiped.
There are two famous inscriptions that talk about Yahweh anti-Asherah, now some people
said, oh that just means a figure, you know, a pole, because apparently Asherah was represented
by some kind of a tree or a pole, but you know, it's not Yahweh in his pole, it's Yahweh
and it's Asherah, and if it is a pole, it represents the goddess, so sure, in the period
of the First Kingdom, there were people who thought Yahweh had a wife.
I think Dever is quite right on that.
Was Asherah then represented in the temple?
Well, you hear of people making garments for Asherah, there was some kind of representation
of Asherah in the temple compound, I think these were, this was one of the things that
Josiah cleared out.
After that, you know, you get the figurines for a while and you don't, you know, if a
king suppresses the cult of a goddess, you don't expect everybody to drop it overnight,
but I think by the time you get into the Second Temple period, it seems to have pretty much
died out.
Interesting.
But I don't doubt that yes, you did have a goddess.
God had a wife.
Yeah.
God had a dad.
And there's an interesting family life.
Yeah.
You know, this brings me to a follow-up in this vein, two things.
Elaine Pagels mentioned that there's a Gnostic, if I could use the term, phrase where Yahweh
is saying, I'm a jealous God and there's no other gods beside me, and then his mother,
his mother gets angry at him in the Gnostic writing, I don't know who this was that wrote
it, but his mother's mad at him like, hey, hold on, you're not the only God, like there
are other gods.
I just thought I'd mention that you probably aren't aware too much of the material.
It might be non-commodity.
Not that much, yeah.
And then the other question that I had in the vein of this whole discussion of God
and his family and things like that, it sounds very human, but a heightened human kind of
idea.
Yeah.
This brings me to euhemerism, because I have been wondering, is it possible, and you notice
how I phrase that because I don't expect it to be dogmatic, that if we go back far enough,
there was a man who might have been a mighty somebody in the tribe or whatever it might
be that potentially mythologized to a point where we're lost to history, this legend of
a Yahweh, like a Hercules was once.
Yeah, I mean, lots of things are possible, but I don't see any reason to believe it.
Do you know any characters that might have?
No.
Who?
No, I said I don't.
I don't.
You know, the high gods, generally speaking, do not seem to have been human beings.
Now, you have people like Gilgamesh, may have been a historical king, who then becomes regarded
as semi-divine.
I think in Greek mythology, you have a lot of human beings who get divinized, sort of.
But I don't think Zeus or Baal or Yahweh were ever thought to be human beings.
Interesting.
You know, why do people believe this?
Because there are powers in nature, especially, that just seem much greater than anything
humans can control.
A lot of these high gods are storm gods.
And it's the lightning and thunder that put the fear of God into people.
This final thing, Genesis 6, sons of God, daughters of men, et cetera, Jewish rabbis
and people that I'm friends with, who I take a totally different position on, many things.
They want to argue this is the line of Seth and Cain.
And I would like to maybe have you as an expert in this material to kind of tell us what's
really happening, because it sounds like these are supernatural deities, especially if you
look at the backdrop of Eugiridic texts.
You see these apkaleem, you see these diviners that come down to teach humanity these things,
but they're naughty in the biblical texts.
It's a polemic.
That seems to fit the context to go, does sons of God aren't humans?
They're not just noble men or really mighty humans.
Can you take us into that issue and show us why this isn't the line of Cain, line of Seth,
human line here going on?
You mean the sons of God in Genesis 6?
Right.
Well, I mean, what the account in the Bible says is that these are people who come down
from heaven and people who shouldn't be having relations with human women.
So why would you want to say the sons of Cain and that is just discounting, nobody seriously
thinks that this account is historical.
That's myth, you know, legend, but it's no point to demythologizing it.
Yeah, there's so much detail they try to get into, so thank you.
