Does this mean everything I've believed in for so long has all been a myth?
Oh my god.
It'll be a voice that shakes the very foundation of the pit itself.
And it'll hear a voice that stops the fall.
It'll hear a voice that shakes hell.
It'll hear a voice that hell responds to.
It hears the voice of the maker, the master, the creator, the lord of the universe.
And hell itself begins to rise.
Higher it comes.
Up to the surface.
All for a fleeting moment.
The soul has been burning for a thousand years.
May have one moment of thought of respite.
Possibly I can be forgiven.
Maybe God has changed his mind.
Or maybe an opportunity.
I'll repent.
Or Jesus has repented.
I'll repent Jesus.
But it's too late.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are Myth oczywiście.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are TheBun Drive.
We're MythVision.
We are TheBunDrive.
We are TheBunDrive.
We're TheBunDrive.
We're TheBunDrive.
We're TheBunDrive.
We were MythVision.
We were MythVision.
We were MythVision.
the children of men, he set the borders of the peoples according to the number of the children
of Israel. For the portion of the Lord is his people, Jacob a lot of his inheritance."
Now, those two verses is a Deuteronomy chapter 42 verses 8 to 9. And there are other scholars,
I've talked about the significant of those two verses in this book, The Origin of Biblical
Monotheism by Marcus Smith and among others. And even a theologian Margaret Barker,
whom she talked about the Yahweh being, in her view Yahweh being Jesus and Elohim being God the
Father. Although the issue with that is that there is no trinity in Judaism, there is no
son in Judaism, this is a big issue. So the thing is, we have to recognize that in the most high
in Hebrew is pronounced Ha-El-Yom, and he is not the same entity as God the Father as some people
may believe. There are certain Christian denominations that subscribe to even some
saying that Jesus and Yahweh are brothers and sons of the most high, because there are verses
in the New Testament about Jesus being the son of the most high.
But what I'm trying to say is that God the Father has a father. That's the point.
Hold on one second. So the Father has a father. That is a profound statement which I find fascinating.
Let's delve into that. Well, can we talk about that and then go into, you talk about the evolution
of what happened with the Old Testament, God's, and I say plural because it's obviously a bunch
there too, but you have an interesting thing. So who's God's Father? Or who's Father God's Father?
So before I get into that, I want to quickly distinguish the idea that the most high being
God the Father and being the Father of Yahweh, whom is Jesus. That was an idea that came later.
Originally, that's not what happened. In Iron Age, in Israel, before Judaism started,
Yahweh was the Father and he was the son of El Yom, the most high. He had many siblings,
because even Paul could be seen as a brother, because Yahweh was seen as a son of El,
the supreme God. Now, what I realize is that the idea of a monotheist, a God having a father,
actually goes about the Egypt, because Adam was said to have created the entire universe
all by himself. Yet despite the fact that he created all things that exist,
he arose from new, a God that's represented as water. So this same contradiction goes back
to Egypt, and it is not just an issue that exists in Judaism and later become an issue
for later philologians today. And that's the thing. How can Yahweh inherit something
while not having parents at the same time? That makes no sense. So when I realized this,
I wanted to find out who El Yom is. It's very clear, without a shadow of a doubt,
that originally, Yahweh's part was probably a polytheistic pantheon. Now, the interesting thing
is, there are people out there that would say that the Jewish God is actually a combination of
multiple gods, amalgamated into one. But as I'm about to explain in a moment, this is not the case.
It has to be realized by the fact that of the origins of Elohim. Now, before I get to that,
keep in mind that El Yom sounds a lot like Enlil, the Mesopotamian God. That's not a coincidence,
and I will explain that connection in a moment. Now, autumn is a shortening pronunciation of a
much older Egyptian God called Nefertim. Now, Nefertim is where we get Elohim from,
is also where we get Hashim from. Elohim represents the plural understanding of Yahweh.
Well, Hashim means the name when translated, which some Jews would refer to God as Hashim,
like a rabbinical. Yeah, they wouldn't actually say his name. They would say it's the name,
referring to God's name, because it's so holy. Yes, it cannot be uttered. They think it's a sin.
Right. However, we're allowed to see here that even the name Yahweh comes from the very same
God Elohim does, including El Shaddai. And this is where we start finding out on top of all this,
that people like Abraham did exist, but their story was adopted. When it was adopted into the
Tanakh, into Torah, and what have you, it was altered heavily to support a new belief system.
Now, Abraham and Abram are actually not referring to the same figure. They're actually two different
people, and I'll explain why that is the case in a moment. But going back to Nefertim. Nefertim
is shortened to Atom by at least 2,200 BC, roughly. Nefertim goes back to 3,000, 3,600 BC,
and there are some cases where Atom is already sort of making an appearance. Oh,
oh, wait a minute. Correction, Atom appears in 2,200 BC. Nefertim was shortened to Atom by at least
2,600 BC, and then by 2,200 BC, Atom was pronounced Atom, and he became the sum disk. Now, before he
was called Nefertim, he could be pronounced as Nefer. It even rhymes with the Egyptian word
Netur, which literally means God. Now, Nefer comes from the Sumerian Ishkir. Now, Ishkir is very
important because this is what initializes the evolution process, the mythological evolution. Now,
quite interestingly enough, scholars such as Forkyl Jacobs, whom translated the Sumerian text,
want to make it that translated Sumerian text besides Samuel Noah Kramer, he mentioned that Ishkir
is a son of Enlil. Remember when I talked about Enlil sounding like El Leone and Hebrew?
This is where we start building the bridge that connects Enlil to the original Most High,
the Always Father. Real quick, if you don't mind me mentioning before we get further on that,
a lot of people want to say, well, these Israelites were Canaanites.
You're showing that these are Mesopotamian religions that are being now moved into Egypt.
You're showing there's an etymological connection in just the names connecting these deities from
ancient Mediterranean, would ancient Canaan count in that vein somewhat?
Well, as we were about, this is kind of getting, there's a little later in the discussion, but the
Israelites were a pretty much a faction of Canaanites, and this is a universally accepted
thing amongst academics. Now that's important, and the Israelites are connected in the sense
of the Canaanites whom they were in a way, actually Mormon in a way, they were actively
rebelling against the Egyptians who were ruling Canaan, and they had many wars with them.
And now, this is where we're getting into Saul, not to be confused with the New Testament,
Saul, I'm talking about Saul, the first king of the United Monarchy, and the historical evidence
that shows David did exist. So that's, I'll get to that in just a moment, because I
was ever skipping too far ahead, I need to explain what happens before that. Now, Ishkir
is a Samaritan god that was worshipped as Enlil's son, going all the way back to Nipur,
the city of Nipur, N-I-P-P-U-R, in 5000 BC, which was the main cult center for Enlil,
it was even called Enlil's city. So this is the show that this does predate the United Egypt
that was founded by Pharaoh Nama, who was supposed to be the first Pharaoh of Egypt,
that is often identified by Egyptologists as being one and the same with Pharaoh Minas,
which is spelled M-E-N-E-S. So that's important because Pharaoh Nama,
he took the place of the scorpion kings. Well, that's kind of interesting, because if we look
at the civilization of Kish, we're going to, it mentions scorpion, the animal scorpion is
important there, in the sense that they're, excuse me, one second. Not to be confused with
the movie Mummy, right? No. Yeah, so what's interesting about Kish is they were supposed
to be founded about 3100 BC. However, there is some evidence I'm aware of that seems to push
that date back to about 3200 BC, which really what's interesting about that is that this would
seem to indicate that Kish actually predates Egypt. And what's interesting about that is that
there are some Egyptologists that would say that Nama overthrew scorpion one and scorpion
two. These were the scorpion kings, of course, and that's when he united the Egyptian monarchies.
And actually, they didn't quite put it that way. They said they united it through war,
which I agree with that. That is another way of saying that he united the Egyptian people through war.
Now, my understanding of this is I don't think it's a coincidence that Kish,
which is a super power, was associated with scorpion kings and Pharaoh Nama over,
when he became Pharaoh of Egypt, united the lower and upper Egypt into one country.
And how far is this before Akhenaten?
So Akhenaten began to reign somewhere in the 1350s being seen.
That's a long ways off.
Okay, so I'm wondering how this connects to I'm trying to keep. I know you're trying to build
up something here, but I'm trying to chronology. Yeah, you're building up a chronology in Egypt
and how their gods came from the Mesopotamian into Egypt. And now you're showing there from
Egypt, you're about to connect us into the Bible here shortly and show us how they came from Egypt.
Okay, okay. And there's even an important verse in the Tanakh that admits that Isk'ur is Yahweh,
which solidifies the connection even more than it already is. Now, I'll quote it in just a moment.
Before I do, I need to finish what I'm talking about with Egypt. So now we show that it's moved
to Egypt, relocation. Pharaoh and Nama initiated the evolutionary process, practically. And what's
important about this is that when we look at the way the Egyptians understood their pharaohs,
they often called them the son of Atom. Now that he became Isk'ur, became Nehvur, but Nehvur Tim,
and now he became Atom, also known as Tim. He later becomes Atom. Now, for many, many centuries,
Atom would just be a dormant god, a god that nobody really paid attention to unless, of course,
he's seen as an aspect of Ra, which made him more important at times, because Ra is often
associated with the sun disk. Now, when we move forward into pharaoh Akhenon, because we might as
well. However, you know, there's one more thing that I need to talk about before I skip over
the Akhenon. Most of what we've got about it, and that was the Heiksels. The Heiksels are in the
middle of the situation. If you simply research Heiksels, their god is called Baal Hadad.
Now, that's important, because he's represented by the cuneiform sign, din-er-i, and I'm going to spell
that, D-I-N-G-E-R, then just simply type the letters I-N. So, look that up,
and once you do, you'll see that Isk'ur and Hadad are represented by the same cuneiform symbols,
and it's recognized by those that study the Sumerian text. The academics, they recognize it as the same
god. And so is Hadad. Now, that's important, because before the Heiksels invaded Egypt
in the early 2nd millennium BC, in 2300 BC, there was a person called Ibrahim, I-V-R-I-U-M,
whom was in Ebla, E-V-L-A, and one of the gods of Ebla was called Hada, H-A-D-D-A.
Now, what's interesting about that is, it sounds a lot like El Shaddai in Exodus,
chapter 6, verse 3. It talks about how Abraham knew God as El Shaddai, and if you look at Abram,
it sounds a lot like Ibrahim, and I realize that's obviously where they got it from. More than that,
going back to 2400 BC, they had a king called Adamu, what it sounds like, Adam, and that's
about A-D-A-M-U, because I want to research it. Now, before that, it looks like Adamu was based on
autumn. So, this is where we're getting into a full circle, where Mesopotamia influences Egypt,
and then Egypt starts going influencing Mesopotamia. And if correct me if I'm wrong,
and I'm not trying to jump ahead, because I know you're going to take us through a sequence,
I'm really enjoying this, I love learning this, and how you're connecting the names,
like this is interesting. Adam, from what I can tell, is a lot of the characters, the human
characters of the Old Testament that's not, are actually gods from other, from Egypt, or the
Mediterranean myths of those times. And Adam is actually a character who was a god,
like you're talking about here. However, did they humanize him and make him more human,
or was he also a deified human from Egypt? You see what I'm saying?
Well, Adam the human comes from King Adamu. It's just that
autumn developed into the Adamu, and a king was named after him. So, since Judaism does not view
Adam as a god, but as the first man, it's clearly based on the human Adamu. Granted,
that's, you could still see it as originally having been a god, as autumn, if you want to.
And what's interesting is Adam and Adamu would technically come from the same
etymology, because if you look at the autumn, and how it becomes autumn later, and how the,
in the Canaanite language and the Hebrew languages, there has a word autumn, A-D-O-N,
and it later becomes elongated into Adonai, the Lord. Interesting.
So, Adam and Adonai technically come from the same root, because of that reason.
Now, when the Hykes also invaded Egypt, because now we're getting into that,
their chief god was B'alhada, also known as Nishkir. Now, considering he was a storm god,
some people would confuse him for set. However, there's no evidence connecting set to Nishkir.
It looks like this appears to be a later syncretism of some kind, and probably because the Egyptians
were already doing this god's evil, so they associated him with set, which makes sense
considering what happens with Pharaoh Akhenaten later on here. Now, this is, before I continue
with Akhenaten, there are a few parallels that must be noted between Nishkir and Yahweh, including
that of the flood nefs, the confusion of tongues, all that's very important. And so, if you look up
the story of Ndurana, which is spelled E-N-M-E-N-D-U-R-A-N-A, you'll find out he was a Sumerian king
that was supposed to arrange a pre-Diluvian period, in which he walked with Nishkir and Shamash
and a heavenly plane in a very similar manner to how Enoch walked with God.
Now, before I continue, this is the part where I'm going to quote Hosea 2.16, which is the verse I
was talking about earlier that admits that Yahweh is Nishkir. And it shall be at that day, say of
the Lord, that both shall call me Ishii and shall call me no more Bali. Now, that verse is extremely
important because now we're linking Ishkir to Ishii and now we see evidence that Hosea,
whom is supposed to have written the Book of Hosea, was fully aware of this evolution.
And it's also important to note that Adad, a number-named Rishkir, sounds suspiciously like
Atam, and Atam, and Adonai. And an author called Saint Jorathan, a Phoenician author,
his work is lost, but there's quotations from it. He called Adad Adodos,
which also sounds like Adonai. Now, that's even more important because it's only strengthening
and reconfirming what's already being seen here. Now, in the Gilgamesh epic, it says that Adad
brought the storm cloud over the city of Sherupak, which is where Utnapisham was building his boat
after he was warned by a god that a foe was coming. If we look in the Egyptian text, it talks about
Atam bringing about the flood of new in a million years. Now, new is important because
that's also pronounced, it could be pronounced no, but either way, new is where we get Noah.
Now, new is a god, yes, but in this particular situation, Pharaoh Kufu built a
solar bark or replica of it in honor of the story.
Since Kufu is a human king, similar to how Noah's understood in the Genesis story,
I can't do a conclusion that Noah is Kufu, and he probably was seen as an anthropomorphic
science form of new by those I wrote the Genesis story. Either way, there's no doubt in my mind
he's Kufu, and later, since some people might say, well, you know, Jacob, it does match the,
if you look at the Genesis flood myth, it's more similar to the cuneiform one. Well,
before you say that, it's important to note that in Egypt, Altam, as Ra, wields the heavenly bark,
and he floods Europe at the same time, which is exactly why the Genesis story insists
that the god that funded the earth and gave Noah the schematics to build an ark
is the same god because it's understood that way in Egypt.
Are they mutually exclusive? I mean, kind of like the New Testament, to give you an example,
we've had author Joseph Atwell on the show, and we've also had Dr. Price on it at the same time,
and Dr. Price gives an example of Dennis McDonald's great work on homering the
epics in the Gospels and showing how Mark is really a crazy awesome rewrite of a lot of the epics,
but Atwell is also making a connection to Josephus. So I said to myself,
are they exclusive? And Price said, no, of course not. It could be both Josephus literatures being
used as well as the Homer epics being used. Now, what I'm thinking is, could it possibly be that
you have a Mediterranean myth combined with Egyptian and the scholar edit, they edited this
stuff and created their own version out of it? That's my point. Oh, okay. Yes. That's why I was
saying the way I said it, because this occurred clearly during the Babylonian captivity, scholars
practically agreed that Torah was written during that time period. I was going to ask you, because
that's vital when we talk about this, the dating, because if you go too far back, I mean, how would
they have had, not saying I couldn't, but yeah, I agree with the more, more recent date versus some
crazy, you know, I've heard people say Adam wrote, you know, as parts of the Bible. I'm like, whoa,
man. One way you could put it is, if you want to say it was written, if you want to go with the
Jewish tradition of when this text was supposed to be written, then you would have to say that Torah
was written by the Egyptians on the walls of Egypt, which technically, and if you put it that way,
in the way it was, in the Torah was a rewriting of the Egyptian stories.
I mean, yeah, that would be the logical. You could. Well, you're definitely hitting it in a,
you're obviously not taking the position that they would take. They would say, of course, Moses.
But you're taking a scholarly approach to this, and that's why I appreciate what you're doing,
and you're not, you're looking through the BS, you're trying to say, look guys, all right,
the missing tomb does not mean the guy rose from the dead, literally. Okay, there's an explanation,
but I'm pretty positive people don't come back from the dead, even though people are claiming
they did, whether they, you know, anyway. So please continue where you were. You talked about the
Babylonian captivity, and you're talking about the meshing of these myths being written in the
Tanakh, and is this a Septulegent, or is this the Hebrew, or how do we know? Well, yeah.
Well, they found in the packet of Dead Sea Scrolls, I gotta find it.
So they found some kind of Paleo-Hebrew stone tablet of some kind that dates back to
somewhere between 900 to 700 BC, and it had prayers in it that resemble the Book of Numbers. Hold on,
I am trying to find it.
Yeah, so while you're looking for that, it's interesting you make mention of that, because
I personally would say the Septulegent is like the best, I guess you'd say, well put together
compilation we have that exists, not saying there wasn't something prior, but
that we have that exists, it obviously is older than the Masoretic text, you know what I mean?
Obviously, but you're saying there's possibly a Paleo-Hebrew that might have predated
the Hellenized Septulegent version. Oh, it did. Okay, okay. And then Hellenization came in and said,
ah, well let's try and get these guys. So I'll come back when I find what I'm looking for here,
I'll come back to that. Even if you don't in this episode, we're going to do more shows,
so don't worry. Yeah, I just can't remember off the top of my head what the tablet label number is.
So, but if any of you want to research it, the Paleo-Hebrew text, and you'll find it,
there's text predating the Septulegent, and that also goes right into the fact that Josephus
reported on the, in the Talmud, also reported on the Ptolemy II Phil Delphus ordering the
translation of the Torah into Greek. So it's already been logged into the historical record.
That there was a Hebrew text translated into Greek, which only bolstered, bolstered the
accepted claim that the Torah was written, not only before the Greek, the Greek version, but it
was written during the Babylonian captivity and after, and afterwards. So, going back to Akhenon,
after the high cells left, after the high cells invaded Egypt, I'm going to say,
they're about, they're raised about two centuries or more until the final battle, where in the 16th
century BC, Amos I exiled the high cells, then they went on retreat, and then they were pursued
by Amos I, he gave pursuit, like Pharaoh the Exonist, and that would mean that the last
high cell's federal leader was Kamadi, K-H-A-M-U-D-I. So that, that's how you spell that.
Now, Amos is spelled H-M-O-S-E. So that's for those I'm going to research. Now,
after that point later, you get the conquest of, I think it was,
that's where the exit is coming from. So, yeah, yeah, but most deferred, if I remember correctly,
he launched a conquest where he,
yeah, he conquered a lot of stuff. Some people referred to him as the Napoleon of Egypt,
and this is where Egypt was becoming a superpower. After they defeated the high cells,
went out, started taking control of Canon, and this is where things started getting really
interesting. Then you get into the Shazoo of Yah, and then the later on, we get down to Akhenon.
Now, we see here, they tried to take over Egypt by force, and they, and their chief god was Ishikur,
also known as the Baladad, and it failed. So now Akhenon takes upon that mantle.
By referring to him as Atan, in the 13th, during his reign, from the 1350s to the 1330s B.C.
He declared Atan as the one true god, and all of Egypt and gods were false,
and he's even said that he ordered the blotting of the names of the other gods from the higher
heavens, all of Egypt. Pissed a lot of people off, they closed down the temples. I bet.
He wasn't having it, so he was like, oh no, nothing but my perfect god Atan, A-T-E-N. So,
at this point, this is where we start going back to Sumerian after a moment,
the Mesopotamia, I'm going to say, and we get into the Lord of Arata in Inmarca,
and we get into the confusion of tongues. Now, Inmarca, he was a king in Mesopotamia a while
back, and like his Nimrod counterpart, he was supposed to have reigned after the flood happened,
and all of a sudden, the god Enki confuses the tongues of man. Now, here's the issue.
What's interesting is Ishkir appears in the story, and it's from what I remember correctly,
some translations pronounce his name as Ikr, I-C-K-U-R, same, it's the same god anyway,
it doesn't matter, Ikr, Ishkir, whatever you want to pronounce his name, Nefer, Egypt, thank god.
So, when I realized this, I looked at the hymn of the Atan, it briefly mentions the confusion
of tongues. Now, the difference in the hymn for the Atan is it doesn't appear to be,
it doesn't quite come right out and say yet that the Atan caused it. I'm going to read the part where
it mentions Ikr, there's no way of pronouncing it, Ishkir, and it says, this is lines 546 to 556,
after he had spoken, plus to him, the Lord of Arata received his kenfire tablet from the messenger,
the Lord of Arata looked at the tablet, the transmitted message was just nails, and his bro
expressed anger, the Lord of Arata looked at his
kiln fire tablet, at that moment the lord worthy of the crown of lordship, the son of Imlial,
but god Ikr, thundering in heaven and earth, causing a raging storm, a great lion, and he was
making the mountains quake. This is very important because it's not getting the Yahweh, the mountain
God, getting in there with Ikr, or Ishkir. He was a convulsing the mountain range, the awesome
radiance of his breast, he calls the mountain range to raise its voice and joy, on Arata's
parched planks and the middest of the mountains, wheat grew of its own accord, and chickpeas
also grew of their own accord. They brought the wheat, which grew of its own accord, into the
granary of the Lord of Arata and helped him, I'm going to say, heaped it up before him in the courtyard
of Arata. The Lord of Arata looked at the wheat, the messenger's eyes looked at skin,
the Lord of Arata called the messenger. There's some parts of it, a little hard to understand,
because it's broken lines. Now I'm going to get to the point where we get to the confounding of the tongs.
And here it is.
Lines 134 to 155.
Chanting him the holy song, the incantation song in his chambers, the incantation of Nidumid.
On that day, when there is no snake, when there is no scorpion, when there is no hyena,
when there is no lion, when there is neither dog nor wolf, when there is bus, neither fear,
nor trembling, man has no rival. At such a time, made the lands of Kuber and Hamazah,
the many tongued in summer, the great none of the me, of magnificence, and Akkad, the land
possessing all that is befitting, and the marching land resting in security, the whole universe,
the well-guarded people. May they all address and lie altogether in a single language,
grant that time for the ambitious lords, for the ambitious princes, for the ambitious kings,
for the ambitious lords, for the ambitious princes, for the ambitious kings,
for the ambitious lords, for the ambitious princes, for the ambitious kings,
and keep the lord of abundance and of steadfast decisions. The wise and knowing lord of the
land, the expert of the gods, chosen for wisdom, the lord of erudog, shall change his speech in
their mouths as many as he had clicked there. If the speech of mankind is truly one.
Yeah, that clearly, clearly is saying what, not identical, and that's the point you were making
in a lot of your videos that you do on Facebook, because none of them are really identical, but
very, very similar, and that is very clearly indicating one language from many languages.
There's an inky's involved, and did Inky confuse the tongues? Is that what it said?
Yes. Now, here's the issue. The Egyptians had their own story, and we can see through the etymology
that we see here. The Egyptian version is not blanking inky as a cause. Okay.
So I'm going to read the hymn of Yaten, at least a part of it. Okay. And it says,
How manifold it is, what Bo has made, they are hidden from the face of man,
Oh, so God, like whom there is no other, getting into the monotheism stuff.
Bo did is create the world according to that high desire, wildest Bo word alone, all men, cattle,
a wild beast, whatever is on earth, going upon its feet, and what is on high, flying with its wings,
the countries of Syria, and Dubai, the landed Egypt, both set us every man in this place,
both supply us their necessities, everyone has his food, and his time of life is reckoned,
their tongues are separate in speech, and their nature as well. I'm sorry, and their natures as well.
And as it continues going on, it says, very skinned or distinguished, as Bo distinguished
to be foreign peoples, Bo makest a Nile in the underworld, Bo bring us forth as Bo desires,
to maintain the people of Egypt, according as Bo made us them for myself, the Lord of all of them,
wearing himself with them, the Lord of every land rising for them, the Atom of the day,
great majesty. So who gets blamed in that one?
Aten.
Yeah, Aten Yahweh, actually it was El Shaddai, right, in the confusing of the tongues in the
Genesis account, in that El Shaddai they did. So later on becomes Yahweh, which is interesting.
So where do we go from here? Now that we've gotten to the confusion of tongues, where do we go from
here? Well, what's happening here is now this is pretty much how we see Vittorah getting developed
here, prior to it being written down. Now, this is where we get into some interesting parts here,
how the transference upon it takes place, and how it gets removed over to Israel.
Akhenon's short reign, supposed to have been 17 years long, he dies, and apparently his own son,
King Tut, also known as Tutankhamun, he's supposed to be a son. He was originally called Tutankhamun,
but he changed his name to Tutankhamun to get away from his father's religion,
and now, I think you could also pronounce Tutankhamun, that's pretty much the same thing,
yeah. So at that point, he, a lot of Horim had, and others, they were pretty much getting rid of
the history of Akhenon, trying to destroy him, get him out. And if I remember correctly, going
as far as not even mentioning him was as many Kings as possible, just getting rid of him out
entirely. But Egyptologists were very lucky to find his tomb, and if I remember correctly,
he was heavily ravaged, but there were writings there that survived, and that's what allowed us
to figure out what the hell happened here. What's interesting is, another pharaoh goes for a
similar situation to Akhenon a little while, in the late 13th century BC, and this is where we
get into the transference to Israel begins. So Anton is denied as apparently rightful place as
monotheistic god, and we can imagine here, the cult is pretty pissed off, they were relocating
his god somewhere else, and they needed to get their way. And before I continue, I also want to
bring up another similarity between Enlil and, and the Egyptian god, not the Egyptian god, but the
god's pharma in general. But yes, the Egyptian god Nuh. Enlil is also referred to as Nuh Namr,
it's a title, just like Adad and Hadad are different ways of expressing Isk'ur. The title is
spelled N-U-N-A-M-N-I-R. Now it's interesting that his son is called Isk'ur, whom is called Adad,
because in Egypt, Nefer Tim is also called Atom, and is often understood as the son of Nuh,
very similar to how Adad is understood as the son of Nuh Namr. You can see how the names sound
alike. So they ignored Namr and kept the Nuh sound, and that's how they continue the idea
that he's a son of Nuh to eat. So another similarity between the Sumerians and the Egyptians is,
if you look at, and I've talked about this in the past, Enlil is the king of the air and the gods.
He's very similar to the Fabian supreme god Amun, the supreme god of Phoebes,
and he has a feminine form called Amunet, the goddess of the air. So I'm going to spell these
names A-N-U-N, and the airlines A-N-U-N-E-T. So that's the pair. And what's interesting about this
is Nenlil, feminine form of Enlil, and his wife, is also called Lady Air, goddess of the air.
It's very similar. And also, Enlil has a son called Nana, the moon god. Well,
Amun has a son called Konsu, also a moon god. And I don't think that's a coincidence.
It's very, very similar. And we can see the etymology is bridging the gap between the different gods
together. Exactly. Exactly. So I just want to insert that in there so that way we don't forget
about God's father here. Right. Now, this is where we start getting into
the Myrna Petah Stealing. Now, this basically is a commemoration stealer about the record of
Myrna Petah's campaigns, and one of including the devastation of Israel. Now, Israel is part of
Canaan. And Canaan is like a United Nations of many different people in that land against Egypt.
Because Egypt is a primary enemy, and multiple different cultures are part of Canaan,
including Israel. And I... You're saying Canaan, right? Canaan? Yeah, yeah. Just making sure everyone
is watching. Yeah, the Canaan. Yeah. Okay, Canaanites. Now, someone might think you're talking about
actual Canaan, like scriptural Canaan, you know. Yeah, I get that. Now,
Myrna Petah does that devastation of Israel. Obviously, this is involved in that
Canaan rebellion against Egypt, because they had wars off and on. And I don't want to get
into too much detail on that, because it will get into way too long about the specific history.
Right. I'd rather stick to the gods. Right. Long story short, after Israel was ravaged,
eventually, the Egyptians lost much of their influence over Canaan, and they basically
gained their independence. And that's why, all of a sudden, out of nowhere, the United Monarchy
appears. And it didn't appear out of nowhere. It was because they declared independence from Egypt.
That's why Saul is the first king of Israel. And that's where we get into David and Solomon.
Now, we can confirm
the existence of David because of the Tel Dan Steele. Also, I mean, I'm going to spell it as
T-E-L-D-A-N-S-T-E-L-E. So the Tel Dan Steele space those briefings out and research it.
And the translation goes as follows. It's the same broken lines. So here we go. And cut.
My father went up against him when he fought at, and my father lay down. He went to his ancestors,
became sick and died, and the king of Iz, Ra'el, entered previously in my father's land. And Ha'dad.
Of course, he's got to be in there somewhere, made me king. And Ha'dad went in front of me,
and I departed from the southern S of my kingdom. The letter S disappears and enters
Transylvania, all my kingdom. And I stood 70 kings who harnessed thousands of chariots and
thousands of horsemen, four horses. I killed Jehovah, son of Ahab, king of Israel. And I killed
Ahaz, Ahayu, son of Jehovah, king of the house of David. That's the big one there.
And I set their towns into ruins and turned their land into desolation.
Hover and Jehovah led over Israel, and I laid siege upon. So yeah. So we got multiple characters
being confirmed here. We got Ahab, a bunch of others. David, that's the big one.
Then Ha'dad is involved. There's also a lot of kings called Ha'dad, but it's no coincidence that
he's involved in this situation. Because here's the thing. It's also important to take note that
Yahweh also sometimes is Israel's enemy. Many times, throughout the Tanakh, he just gets really mad
at them for some reason, different reasons for all the books. It's almost like the authors were
pissed off at the people, so they made God turn against them. Or another way, well, I guess a
better way of putting it is, if they didn't do it that way, to me, it probably makes better sense
that, well, why are we in captivity again? God's mad at you. You didn't know? I mean, and so.
But yeah. So that's interesting. I need to research on that, David, and see where that goes.
Because I know some scholars will say David didn't exist. I'd like to see how they deal with that.
You know what I mean? So probably going to be one of those instances where I'm going to say,
this is really not up for debate, that tell Dan Steele that it would not exist to confirm David
outside of the Tanakh, well, outside of the range of what it was supposed to be written down. Right.
They had a days to 870 to 750 BCE. Right. That just doesn't come out of thin air.
No. Right. Not a chance. Not a chance. And this alone also brings validity to Saul.
Because if David exists, it can be safely assumed Saul did too. And so is Solomon, just logically.
Right. And now outside of that zone, this only helps confirm the characters that exist in the
first millennium BCE, from the 1100 BCE to the 100 BCE range. So, of course, down to the 1 BCE,
of course. And you would probably go so far as to say any characters probably before that chronology
would probably be taking place in someone else's history and now being borrowed into the...
Okay. So technically it's safe to say these guys probably were part of the independence
of a real place at this point called Israel. Definitely. Okay. Yes. So after Egypt pretty
much lost total control of the situation, the Canaanites states were free. So were Israel.
Cool. And the rest, like Moses, Abraham and all that, they were pharaohs in Egypt. Because if you
look at the... If we look at Mernepetah, he has a son called also known as Mernepetah. But what's
interesting about Mernepetah, it's also been pronounced Marin Petah. And he's got a quote-unquote
half-brewer called Amenmosis. Whoa. That sounds a lot like Aaron and Moses. And let's get in...
We get deeper into that. Amenmosis is supposed to be the son of Ramses II. And Ramses sounds
suspiciously like Amran, the father of Moses. Right. Even if you reverse that, Ramam, Ramses.
It doesn't matter. It sounds like it. Right. Too much.
Interesting. And I like how you do that. Ralph Ellis does a little bit of that. He says the
chronologies off though. Do you agree that the chronology of the biblical count is actually
way off or hundreds of years off? And that maybe if we... Because he goes to the Egyptian
chronology to try and prove when the real people existed. So like, you know how you talked about
Ammosis here, okay? The biblical chronology doesn't match the chronology of the Egyptian
chronology. He goes to the Egyptian chronology and says, the biblical one you got to disregard,
you find that the pharaohs in the chronology of the Egyptians, more accurate, that's why we can't
find them in history from the biblical count. Does that make sense? Yes. I am familiar with his
claims. I will have to make note that his ideas are not original. He got his inspiration from
Ahmed Osman. And he specifically talks about that in his books, Ahmed Osman. He's a big fan of
Ahmed Osman. Now, I've got a lot of problems with his identifications. I like what he's trying to do,
but he will state that Aaron and Moses is Akhenat and Tufmosis in his opinion.
Right. Now I disagree with him. Is that because it's monotheistic and he's trying to make a
connection there or probably... Yeah, there's someone I remember, obviously I interrupted.
That's... I think you're... I think you... I've seen enough podcast. I think he does make the
connection. I think he sticks to this monotheistic connection into... All of a sudden, monotheism
appears out of nowhere in the Egyptian storyline of their pharaohs. And then here we have Moses
declaring his monotheistic tone within the Torah. You know what I mean? Yeah. So conveniently,
he ignores the 10-day-al-Steela. He says David is a pharaoh of Egypt. And if I remember correctly,
is Pius Xenise II, whom he identifies with David. And he gives a reason about why that he's David.
I think he says something about his pharaonic title being duad, which sounds like David.
And he's trying to make a connection with Shashank the first, with Solomon. And I'm like...
I think he does that because he claims that Solomon had riches like unbelievable... Right.
The gold of Egypt being synchronized with the gold of Solomon. But does that have to be... I mean,
let's be real, right? We're talking a biblical account and I just want to ask you because I'm
no scholar in this. I love being who I am. I get to sit behind here and make observations and
just watch. But couldn't that be possibly just trying to, I guess you'd say, enhance a story?
Or do you think Solomon really was a rich dude? Of course, they exaggerated, in my opinion,
on how much riches. But what are your thoughts? All right. So here's a problem of what he's saying.
Shashank the first in the 10th century BCE sapped Israel. And he's identical to Shishak,
woman in the Jewish chronology, lived in the 10th century BCE, did the same exact thing
as his historical counterpart Shashank the first. So
it's completely like the king of Israel. It's actually a pharaoh of Egypt attacking Israel,
especially since Daniel Dan Steele confirms David as a father of Solomon,
which would show that yes, he did live in Israel. Yes, he wasn't a king. They're not a pharaoh of
Egypt. In fact, Solomon is distinguished from Shishak as mentioned together with him several
times. And Shishak and Solomon, just give me one second here. I almost forgot something.
If we look at the time period of when he lived, Solomon, he lived at the same time period. He's
a contemporary of Shishak, also not as Shashank the first. He lived in the same century as him.
So yeah, it's a disaster to say to the same person. I can respect that he's trying.
But he's got to be careful because the first millennium BC characters that existed in the
Jewish chronology can be found in history very easily. And we can go into the Mesha Steele about
King Armory. The conflict of King Armory with King Mesha Moab is verified in the Mesha Steele,
which is about, remember correctly, 2,800 years old, which solidifies what the Tanan talks about,
about the conflict between Moab and Israel, which the Mesha Steele is spelt.
I don't want to misremember how to spell it, so I'm just checking it out. M-E-S-H-A-S-T-E-L-E.
So yeah, that's for those that want to look up. So that's the problem. You can't go around saying,
oh, these people in Pharaoh's Egypt, when we have these ancient writings around Wold-e-Fort
with Tanakh. Now Moses and Aaron, that's different because we can't find them anywhere.
So I agree with him there that Moses and Aaron must be found in Egypt, just like Ahmed Osman was
talking about, but Akamon and Tuf-Moses, that doesn't sound right to me. It sounds more like
Meron Batal and his half-brother, An-Min-Moses, to me. Like, what? And both are speculative,
right? Both, I mean, both are speculative. I mean, and so we're not saying one is more than the other,
but I do see where you're coming from, and I get it, you know? Yeah. Do you see the similarity
in the names between Meron Batal and An-Min-Moses with Aaron and Moses?
Meron Batal doesn't sound, I guess, Meron, Aaron. Meron, Meron and Aaron. They just ignore the Batal
sound. Right. And then An-Min-Moses, Moshi, Moses. They can ignore parts of the sound. Right. I don't
know. I mean, honestly, I don't know. I'm going to be honest. I don't know enough. But I do think
that sometimes what we can do, we look for patterns as humans, and I think sometimes we can get caught
on a wagon, possibly, of trying to make this Egyptian connection all the way down, as he does,
all the way to Jesus, you know? So, and a lot of people think it's speculation. So, but yeah,
we can move on from there, because I'm actually going to interview him more. I like to hear
stimulating ideas and stuff like that. But yeah, I get it. You guys have differing views on these
things, and I know you probably side more with scholarship, I suspect. Yes, I do. In a lot of
these issues. Yeah. Yeah, the problem is going back to Meron Batal, there is one big difference.
With Akhenon, you cannot prove he went to Israel, because the idea that he's Aaron and his brother
Tuthmosis is Moses, or reverse, because Ahmed Osman says Moses is Akhenon and Tuthmosis is Aaron.
You have to rely on him being exiled to Israel. You have to have a relationship with Israel.
Now, Meron Batal can also be pronounced Meron Batal, the father of Meron Batal Jr.,
the half-brother of Ahmed Mosis. He sacked Israel as well. He ravaged the land, something like that.
And he's talked about that in the Meron Batal stele. That's the one big difference there. We can
prove that there's a direct conflict between the names I mentioned with Israel very easily.
But with Akhenon, his father, nor does his brother Tuthmosis, they never went to Israel. We can't prove
it. Do you see what I'm trying to say here? Yeah, I get it. And here's the thing. I'll read that part
in the Meron Batal Stele and where it says this. The line 26-28, the princes are substrate, saying
peace. Not one is raising his head among the nine bulls. Now that Dehune, Libya, has come to ruin.
Haja is pacified. The canon has been plundered into every sort of wall. Ashkelon has been overcome.
Gaza has been captured. Yanoam is made not exist. Israel has laid waste and his seat is not.
Harghur has become a widow because of Egypt. With Akhenon, he never goes to Israel at all. In fact,
the Alman Osman thing about Akhenon being exiled is pure. I wouldn't even consider it speculation,
probably less than that, because it's total. I don't know what to call it, because it's my
opinion it's something worse than an assumption, because there is no evidence at all. You can't
even reinterpret it to prove that he went to Israel. But Meron Batal, the father of Meron Batal,
does that to Israel and has it recorded on the Meron Batal Stele, also known as the Israeli
Stele or the Victory Stele of Meron Batal? That's no coincidence. Right. Can't be. It sounds like to me
that the half-brother of Meron Batal and his father, Meron Batal Sr., or Meron Batal Sr.,
depending on his name, was reversed in the way to where instead of Aaron's father, or in this case,
if Meron Batal were in the Tanakh, he would probably be Aaron's senior, invading Israel.
I'm sorry. Instead of Aaron with being alongside Moses and Moses leading the Jews out of Egypt,
it's the other way around that he's actually attacking Israel. The story got reversed.
That's what we're dealing with here. The evidence that's seen in the Meron Batal
Stele in the similar names between Meron Batal and his half-brother Al-Masih or Al-Masih.
Yeah, I could see a reversal for sure. It's an interesting note. It says that their seed
is no more. It does say their seed. That's a very interesting point there. I think that's for
those who are watching who are looking at the seed of Abraham concepts and stuff to look at.
But anyway, please progress because what I want to do here, I want to stop with our Old Testament
and we'll do another show for the new. That way, we're not running on too, too long. I would like
to separate the shows and let people digest some of the stuff that you said and go through and be
able to look up some of these things you're bringing up because this is a lot of fascinating
information. Please go ahead, Jacob. All right, so next up, we're going to talk about Canaan Abel.
Now, Canaan Abel is a story that is seriously out of chronological order. Canaan Abel are not
sons of Adam. They're not even children of Eve in history.
Now, this is where we have to go to the Roman kingdom, actually, to find Canaan Abel.
Before you go any further, because I have some radical people come on sometimes.
Are you the only one who speculates this or is this held by other scholars?
I remember correctly, there's a couple of people, I'm not even sure of their scholars,
that talked about the Romulus and Remus being similar to Canaan Abel.
I'm going to take it the extra mile. Now, would you date Romulus and Remus to the
third century BC? No, they saw. Here's the interesting part.
There was reported that they found a wall very similar to the Moorish Romulus,
which is the wall of Romulus. It dates back to the time they were supposed to live from the
from, because they were supposed to live in the 8th century BC, and they found that defense wall,
and they can look it up. This is like a very primitive Rome type.
And it fits with the Tananx when it was supposed to have been written according to the scholar
academic community. Let me ask you this, how close was, I mean, my geography is all over, but
do you think Rome had influence in some way or their myths in some way back in those times with
Israel? Oh, yeah. And here's the reason why, because Mars is Ishkir. And I'll explain why that's
the case. Ishkir was later pronounced Ittermira, I-T-I-E. Let me just re-spell that real quick.
That's screwed up there for a second. I-T-U-R-M-E-R-A, Ittermira. It could also be pronounced Ittermir.
In this case, instead of Mira, it's spelled M-E-I-R. Ittermir was pronounced Myris,
and the Proto-Indo-European language, which is also often in the Pi.
If you exchange the M for the A sound, you get Aries and Greece. And if you kind of
mess with the pronunciation a little bit, you get Mars in the Latin. And that's very
important because this ties Ishkir directly into Aries. How's this connected into the Bible?
Oh, yeah. So Ishkir is also referred to as Tishub, and that is an Anatolian God,
which is located in Turkey. Anatolia is modern-day Turkey. Now, they found Troy in Turkey,
the same region where Noah's Ark is supposed to have come to rest on Mount Ararat, located in
the Armenian area, which is part of Turkey, of ancient Turkey, Anatolia. Now, why is it that
Noah's Ark comes to rest on the mountain plains of Anatolia, which is the very land
that's supposed to belong to Ishkir? That's no coincidence. Troy takes place there, too,
roaming the descendants of the Trojans. And a more secular story around this remains their
descendants of the Trojans, a set of sons of Mars by Rhea Silvia. So, at this point,
the geography of Ishkir matches with the location of Noah's Ark where it's supposed to have come
to rest. And where Troy took place. Yeah, why are they doing that? Why even have that? Oh, yeah.
I see what you mean. And personally, I don't know. I don't, I don't, I'm not saying it's not possible.
I just don't buy the Noah's Ark actually being any literal Ark. However, yeah. Yeah, I just want
our audience to hear that because they start thinking, I think there's some real universal
flood going on or some crazy shit. I'm not. Yeah, same here, because Noah reality is Khufu,
but when it became a phallogized into a Jewish version, for some reason, the entire thing takes
place in Turkey, the same region where Troy is. Dude, I love this. And I'll tell you why I love
this, Jacob. And we got to do these again. And this is so important because people, like I talked
to too many fundamentalists, right? And they're like, you're not reading what it says. It says this.
And I say, no, I think, I think what we're, what we're doing is we're reading, we're not reading
into it. We're, we're looking through the message. We know there's lines between the lines. And we
understand there's something there. Like, like a lot of these guys that I bump into that are
very Christian fundamentalists, I tell them about the New Testament and I said, have you ever considered
the reason Paul is removing Torah has more of a political agenda, but rather than, rather than it
being some like, well, God was truly being done away with the law. And this is seriously what they
do. And I'm just giving you an example, but they'll seriously, and you've heard it, they'll seriously
say God was being done away with the law. The cup of wrap was overflowing. All this stuff.
The new covenant. The new covenant. They buy what the New Testament package seals up, wraps up. Here's
a bow. The law needed to end. Never do they ever go. You know, the reason this Paul guys coming
along saying, give rid of Torah, the political reason is the war times of Rome and Israel.
And they're clashing. We needed something that would allow Israelites to get along with Romans
and eat with them and rest with them and be at peace with their neighbors and Torah's dividing.
So they don't look between the lines and say, you know, as much as he keeps adding the word
God on this and, and love and this message of truth and the fullness of the wrath and the law
brings death. And yeah, it brought death. All right. Look at, look at the temple. Okay. Where is it at?
So here's kind of my point is there's something between the lines and we can do that. What you're
doing in the Old Testament is also unifying these things, looking through the message and saying,
Hey, look at these other myths. They all meet and interconnected the strange place.
It's hard to assume that they're maybe not connected somehow. And I love that about what you do.
Now, thank you. But yeah, quickly going back to Romulus and Remus. And then I guess we can
slightly touch on the New Testament for a moment as a kind of a teaser, man. Like, yeah, a free
link to the next episode. Yes. Or just tell them what you're going to talk about. I'd rather you
do that because I don't want you to tell them anything till next episode. Go ahead. Go ahead.
All right. So before I get there, we need to talk about Romulus and Remus quickly get into the
development and captivity. And I'll wrap up the Old Testament, Origins, Tanakhs, Origins, Torah,
whatever. Oh, I've got to talk about Satan's rebellion against God. I almost forgot that one.
Go! Just go! Oh, yeah. What did that story come from? And that one connects the Eskir again, by the
way. So yeah. So Romulus kills his brother Remus because they get into an argument, something to do
with the exact location of where the Roman kingdom, something like that. I remember correctly, all I
know is I get into an argument, like I can't enable, and one brother ends up killing the other.
Now, here's the thing. The difference is, this is not an argument over a lamb being
sacrificed and, you know, God denying the offer of somebody else. The point is, I was added later.
Still, the seeds were very planted to create the story later. The reason why is because
Mars, in the Divine Family Tree, is supposed to be their father. And we have to remember that he's
represented as a ram. So why do you think Abel sacrifices a lamb and God is happy with it?
You don't have any reason, because it's Mars. It's the same God. And the etymology shows that he's
also Eskir. So that makes him the same God as Yahweh, El Shaddai, Nefertim, Aten, Aten, and all the other
names I was talking about earlier. Now, interestingly enough, we're going to have to go back to Anatolia
again for the origins of Satan's line against God. So, I'm going to point out an interesting fact.
The Anatolian tablets were written in the same century that the Armano letters were written in.
And these are the Armano letters that belong to Pharaoh Akhenaten. And that's important because
the story of Adapa, the oldest copy of it that talked about the fall of man, was written in
Cuneiform. But for some reason, the fragment Cuneiform of the Adapa myth is a part of the
Armano letters, also written in Cuneiform. That's odd. What is Cuneiform doing in Egypt?
It's a puzzle Egyptologist. They wouldn't believe if someone told them, but they see it for themselves.
Why is there a huge load of, another load of Cuneiform tablets
that are part of Akhenon's collection there in Akhetaten, the city of Akhenon, something like that?
Now, that's important because you know about the city of Eunu, also known as Anu, the city of
the Adam's cult center. That's important because the God that exiled Adapa as punishment
was called Anu, the name of that city. So yeah, I mean it's not a coincidence that Adam sounds a
little like it too. And he's there in the cult center. His cult center is in the city of Anu,
no coincidence at all. So Ia lies to Adapa. You know, don't accept the offerings of
Yeshita and Tammuz, or Dumazit, depending on the names. Same name, same people.
But Yeshita and Tammuz are different, but Tammuz is also called Dumazit.
So don't accept the offerings or you'll die. So Adapa goes, believes him, and he goes through
the gates of Anu's palace. He believes Ia, right? But when he gets Anu, Anu gets all mad,
because Ia was supposed to accept the offering, he gained immortality, but he was tricked into
not accepting it and that Anu exiles about the earth and pissed. Just like what happens in the
Genesis story. And Ia would be playing the role of Nakash, the serpent. Now, here's what's important.
This is not in any way to be confused with that other Mesopotamian God, Anu.
And we know that because why is it that it's in the Armada letters? And why is it that another
city, that a city, I meant to say a city in Egypt, not another city, a city in Egypt,
is called Anu, or a human. That's because it's actually autumn. That's autumn, exiling Adapa.
Okay. That's how we tie the fallen man to Anu, which helps solidify the connection.
Now we get back to Anatolia, because we have to go back there for the words of Satan,
the one against God. Wow. Yeah. So I thought that was a Zoey Astrian thing. So, but go ahead and yeah.
Okay. I don't know why people keep thinking it's a rastrian. It's not at all. So,
the story about the Talibu was written in the same century, and for Okinawan was supposed to
rule. No coincidence at all. Oh, this has been written down in the same century. So,
after Tesshub Oberfru Krumavi spoke K-U-M-A-R-B-I. Now, he's supposed to be the same God as Enlil.
That's important. Scholars recognize that they've been identified as the same God,
and Tesshub was identified with Ishgar and was presented by the same Dinger Aime symbol
that I was talking about earlier. So, apparently, Krumavi, still alive, decides to impregnate a rock,
which is hilarious, and a stone giant called Ulukuma is born from that union,
and he launches a war, pretty much a war in the skies, war in heaven, something like that,
to overthrow his brother Tesshub, just like what happened in Isaiah and in the book of Enoch,
about the rebellion of Centennial against Yahweh. It's also in the book of Revelation,
Michael casting it out of heaven, and what's interesting about that is Tesshub received
the assistance of the God called A-Y-A-S, just like Michael gave assistance to Yahweh to defeat
that rebel angel. Same thing. Four letter word, like a four letter word God. Wow. Interesting.
I mean, they're not identical, but it's very interesting how they parallel in a lot of ways.
So, yeah, the Yah sound, yes, but Yah is actually referring to the ancient Egyptian
room God called Yah. I'll touch on that in just a second. So, Ulukuma, he's sitting on the shoulder
up a luri, who is apparently holding the sky somehow, like Atlas, and he, well, they cut the
feet of up a luri, if I remember correctly, so that Ulukuma would fall down from the sky. It's like
the fall of Haleil Ben-Jahar, the morning son of Donald Lucifer in Isaiah, and he was killed
by thunderballs, like cutting down Lucifer in Isaiah. I think the New Testament describes
something like that. So, okay. Satan and revelation, yep, the dragon. Now, for those of my
research as a guy, Ulukuma is pronounced, I mean, it's spelled U-L-L-I-K-U-M-N-I.
Yeah. Intestinal, it's spelled T-E-S-H-U-B. So, that's where it comes from. That's him. Same story.
Yeah. The boogeyman, bro. When you were telling that, you were like, like the campfire light was
on you, and you're like, and then a man had sex with a rock, and the rock grew into a bigger rock,
and then it cast down from heaven. No, man, that was awesome. So, okay, we got Satan's origin, so
to speak, or Satan, Lucifer, there's an evolution to him anyway, Samuel, whatever you want to call him.
He comes from a totally different myth. Now, you were going to touch on two more things,
and we were going to give teasers on your New Testament. Oh, yeah. Yeah, the mongod, the Babylonian
captivity, Torah being written down, Persians being involved, and then we get into the intro
of the New Testament video. And so, YAH was understood as one of the many names of Atom.
He was referred to as YAH Atom, which means silver, sun, or main sun, or silver Atom.
Yeah, that's interesting, because it's very similar to the eclipse, the moon and the sun,
and the thing about that ancient motif that actually inspired that Koran, the Islamic
symbol of the moon and the sun. Now, often people confuse that for being a moon god,
which is nonsense, and that's a way later video down the line.
So, technically, the symbol is not a part moon, it's actually an eclipse starting to cover. Oh,
never knew that. So, I'm learning. Yeah. So, that YAH, YAH Atom, became YAH Way Adene, the Lord God.
And so, that's how the Atom became that YAH thing, the YAH Way, the Tetragrammaton,
which is important, because this is what completes the connection. And when we get into the Babylonian
captivity, the last piece is drawn. They start taking certain aspects of Mesopotamian mess while
they're there, and they mesh it together with the Egyptian stories. But they don't want to
defer to other Mesopotamian gods, they want to maintain monotheism to Atom, full dedication.
So, what they do is they make sure to stick with the Egyptian version of the flood while
taking in some stuff from Gilgamesh and Athelahasus, or what have you. So, that way, the same gods still
start the flood in Seisman at the same time, just like how Atom sort of does that in Egypt. Sort of.
Not quite the same, because he doesn't actually have a boat to save man from it.
He just is represented with the boat, but he fuzzier for the same time. So, that's why
God gave them all the schematics of the ark and flood of the earth at the same time,
because of the Atom thing. Now, when that happens, that pretty much completes every
thing. The Persians take over Babylon. They release all those that are captive there.
That's what I remember. It's not just the Jews that were captive. A bunch of other people were
captive. And when the Babylonians were taken over by the Persians, they then went to Egypt and
conquered them too. So, in the 6th century BC, so that's very important. Emperor Canbus is the
second conquering Egypt in the final battle of the Pelusium in 525 BC. And it's a
Therosam took the third. I think that was him. Therosam did the third prisoner of war. That was
a huge humiliation for Egypt. And at this point, the Torah was written down. And this is what allowed
Judaism to come into a monotheistic stage. And later on, down the line, it would be translated
into Greek. And the reason why they wanted to do that was because the Potolomies were trying to
preserve the Torah, the Tanakh and what have you. They weren't trying to create it. They were trying
to preserve it because they knew, oh, they're starting to speak Greek because we're Greeks are
occupying their territory. So, we've got to do something about that so they don't lose their
stories. Translate that into Greek. And then eventually it inspires the Septuagint. And then
the Septuagint would unwillingly get involved with the mistranslations regarding Emmanuel being a
virgin, one of the virgin when he's not, and Paul taking, not Paul Matthew, taking advantage of that
and trying to link and not do well with Jesus when they're not linked at all. Because Alma is Hebrew
for young woman, not virgin. Because Bethshula is the Hebrew word for virgin. All of us pronounce
Bethshula, not Alma. Right. Yeah. I mean, they could both be a young girl which is a virgin,
but yeah, but I get what you're saying. It's almost like there's a pagan overtone
influence there that's saying, eh, she's not just a young girl here. Because that's a common
theme, I suspect, or at least to some degree, having a virgin birth, I think, is one of those.
We're not saying, we're not doing what a lot of the Methodists have done. I'm saying it's more
common, though, that you do see stuff like that, right? It wasn't, I don't want to give any of your
thunder, never mind. Go ahead and do your thing because I don't want to. Okay. Yeah. All right.
That's what you want to do. Yeah, no, I don't want to give anything else. So yeah, I want you to be able to do that.
So this is where we get into the New Testament's origins. And Mars is all over this frame because
let's just put it this way. Let me stop you real quick. I have to. I have to. Okay. Yeah.
Before we get into the New Testament, because I don't want to go there on this episode. I want
you to say, give drop nuggets. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to show you Mars in the
New Testament, paralleling it to the Greeks, and then go, like, just give a list of things that we're
going to delve into with the New Testament. All right. So Act 17 is important because for some
reason out of all the places he could have done this in Athens, Paul preaches to the men of Athens
at Mars Hill in Act 17, which is interesting because it's also called Areopagus.
And it's a place where Mars is put on trial. So a little bit of a similarity with Jesus here.
I told you, only give him a preview, man. Don't worry. That is a preview, technically,
because it gets much bigger than that. Don't worry. Yeah, because I want to drop a few. I want to drop
a few. You're going to talk about Apollonius of Tyana, too, right? Oh, yeah. Apollonius of Tyana.
Yeah, I call him Apollonius of Tyana. You're going to talk about Mars.
I already got the Mars part covered. I don't want to get deeper into that.
Don't please. Yeah. The Act 17 thing is already huge in half of the business.
So I find it strange that in the more ancient Greek manuscripts of the New Testament,
there's another Jesus called Jesus Baravus, taken prisoner by Pontus Pilate, too,
for some reason, released. Then the other one gets crucified. And yet Apollonius of Tyana
ascends to heaven like Jesus when he was supposed to have died in 96 AD. And he's working with the,
he meets with the Roman emperors like Josephus. And like Baravus, he gets put on some sort of trial,
too. And he does get released. I'll go into more detail on that in the next episode. Oh,
and I found out that this gate, this, this allowed me to figure out that the man that was
supposed to have ascended to heaven, or you could even go resurrected to the other dead, perhaps,
resurrected from the dead is not the man that was crucified. And that the Son of God is not the
Jesus that was crucified upon Pontus Pilate. It's completely different people. And I'll explain
all that in the next episode and how that ties into Josephus. That was awesome. We talked about
some heavy stuff. Guys, gals, if you're watching this, Jacob's book, it's going to be coming out
sometime soon. God has a father discussing God's forgotten father and the origins of the three
Abrahamic faiths. Jacob, how do they get ahold of you, brother? How do they get ahold of you?
Well, they can find me on Facebook. Yeah. Okay. And I'll just put the link in the description. So
you have a YouTube channel as well. Put that link in the description as well. And so do you have a
website? As of right now, I don't. You're gonna walk on one. Yeah, I probably should. I think I've
thought about something like that in the past. But right now, I just got this Facebook stuff in
YouTube. A lot of guys I know who are authors don't have websites, not all, but I know a lot of them.
And I'm like, what? So it's important to have, go get you one, man. You can get one for free.
Just get you a little something, something, you know? But thank you for joining me on this episode,
man. And we have much more to go. Even in the Old Testament, we have a lot more to cover. We just,
we really gave a quick summary of a connection to the Mesopotamian gods, to the Egyptian gods,
down to the Canaanite and the Israelite. And here we have this interesting story that has been
combined and created. It really is a great story. It's just hijacked. Yeah, when you sum it up,
Ischur was split into multiple entities. And then there are other people down the line that knew
this was the same god. So they re-enogamated it back from the same god. And there's another
important detail. I almost forgot. I think it would be pretty good to mention this right at the end
here. And autumn was represented as free people in one. Kepra, Horus, and Rod are different phases of
as the sun. He's represented different phases of the day. And that's interesting because we get into
Yahweh being called the sun and shield, kind of the shield of Mars. And those are where the war god
and the sun gods are mixing and they're never there. And if you look at autumn, the way he's
depicted in Egypt as a sun disk, it could also be seen as a shield. And if you put it in from a
war god's point of view. And what's interesting about that is in Genesis 18.1.2, the Lord appears
to Abraham as free man. And in Christianity, God is free, male, men, and men. So yeah. Yeah,
something's going on, bro. Something's going on. And that even gets into Mars being a tragedy as well,
which I'll say that in the next video. But I didn't mean to interrupt. Oh, you're fine. You're fine.
Dude, love this. Guys, gals, go check them out. Thank you for joining me, bro. We're gonna have to do
this again. No problem. And thanks for tuning in. Like, share, subscribe to this thing. Go support
Jacob and be on the lookout for his book. God has a father. All right, guys. Thanks, Jacob. Peace.
Yeah, peace, man.
