We are live myth vision podcast your host Eric Lambert today. I'm actually being I'm gonna do this right here
We're gonna fix this. I'm gonna say I'm being co-hosted today with none other than the Apostle Paul, but he doesn't lie. This one doesn't
Paul apologia you just did an outstanding edit one of my favorite videos you've done. It's a deep
And I love the video and I figure you and me could co-host these two heretic scholars
So welcome well visa of the type William Wayne Craig has recently conned after us
Which is a thing maybe we'll get to in the future you and me personally and
For you and I are harboring these heretic scholarships. That's kind of the joke that we're making is that we're not they're not in the good class
So we're bringing on more
William leg William and Craig non-approved scholars
Right, right. Yeah, these are these are
These are the people that you won't hear about in the small ponds and right that's okay
That's okay because they're in the ocean with the rest of the big fish and those we might as well introduce
It's like it's weird. We're talking about them and they're right there and we haven't introduced them
So I think I should put names up on the screen here for people to be like who's that guy?
That might help us so
Welcome to myth vision. I have Brian and how do I pronounce your last name properly here? Blaze Blaze wanted to make sure Brian
Blaze what is your background and then we'll get to Camille because he's been on the channel before but like I want people to know
Your expertise as we're diving into critiquing
Richard Bogum
All right, so my background
academically is I have a physics PhD from Brown and
and
and I
Teach a number of different things at Bryant University. That's in Rhode Island. I so I teach physics. I teach AI and robotics. I teach
computational biology and I teach some statistics and
so that's kind of how I got into this this
you know this project and
and so I've kind of published on a wide range of areas from
Computational neuroscience usually like in vision, but also in
Paleo climate like, you know, what is what is a carbon dioxide 500 million years ago?
and also I have a paper on the zombie apocalypse and how
Infectious zombies are in movies. So it's kind of a wide range of different different things and now now we can you know add
New testament studies to to some of to some of that
In terms of my religious background, I was brought up Catholic. I kind of moved away from the church in high school
I was somewhat of a deist in early college and then became an atheist in college and generally I I am a big proponent in science education and
and
And so I look for ways to contribute to that to that area so that gets me into
Apologetics, but it also gets me into investigating
UFO claims and alien claims and
Magnet therapy and
Miracle healings and and things like that
Perfect. So you and Camille work together
Publishing an article for those who don't know just to share the screen and then I want Camille to give us his background
His his expertise here and what he did. What is this Camille? Tell us who you are what your background and what happened here?
So I'm I'm officially a biblical scholar now
No, so I'm I have a PhD from in political science and
Now I'm doing a second PhD in classics. So
Ancient history stuff like that
And yeah, this is so this is just the first article that we published
We have a couple of other articles including some on welcome in the pipeline as well
So that's going to be on your channel as soon as it's published as well
This one was a lot of fun
It really is has anyone seen I want to get a vote in the chat
Because I think it's only fair. Have you guys seen the video that launched one hour ago on Apologias channel?
If so press one
If not press two, I want to see if you have it. I hope you do once we're done with this deep dive
Because it's one of my favorites personally
Paul did you want to comment on that?
Well
What was fun about it?
Was that Camille like pitched me on this and I just any any a chance to do this kind of level scholarship on my channel
I obviously love
But then Camille and Brian just came so prepared and with all the points and they they brought me
They just brought me everything and so this was so easy to put together compared to the some of them and so effective
But I also loved that I had put in some jokes early in the thing Camille's like you're totally undermining our point
We don't need to entertain people
And he was right. He was he was completely right. There was I was undermining
Points to to be funny. So that I just okay good. We're all about we're just all about scholarship here
So I hope people love it because it was yeah, it's fascinating
But yeah very different for me. Well, I mean
Due to all of us we we did one video already. So I know the process
So next time we do that then you're just going to have it basically turn key, right?
What won't have to do anything that you guys can do the animation you can do the all the all the things
That's that's going to be done by chat gpt soon. So don't worry about it soon enough. Absolutely
Anyway, it was it was my pleasure and I agree
among the scholarly ones. Yeah, it's it's
Delicious, but you have to stay tuned here to find out why
Yeah, I mean look I posted a link in the chat
Um, if you want eternal salvation like the real thing not the one that the heretics teach
You got to watch the video and you got to check out the article if you can afford it
I sure hope you can if you can't look you're going to get enough to whet your appetite here
But it just might make you figure out a way to somehow go to brawl and make sure you get it
So might be worth jumping on anyway because there's a lot of great articles on brawl anyway, but um
I figure the best way to start this conversation you guys are going to have a presentation
But it's always important as we're leading into critiquing that we're still manning
Positions because people will go you you misrepresent. How often do we hear right?
You don't understand we talk about undesigned coincidences. You don't understand, you know, those are examples, right?
You don't know no one knows
undesigned coincidences
Like the undesigned coincidence crowd. Okay. No one is gets it. Well, do you really understand rick richard bachom's arguments brian and camille?
Can you still man his position or is that part of your presentation and am I stepping on your toes?
Well, I mean we it's not part of the presentation, but we actually did do that because
So that the article is about name is about names and name popularity, right?
And he relies on a basically like a phone book of everyone that we know of from the ancient world
who was like a jew from palestine, right and the
that lexicon
Is covers everyone from like 330 bce to 200 ce if I'm not mistaken. So 500 years
That's obviously a long time
And it's not surprising to see said that like during the half millennia that the lexicon covers
There were some like changes in naming practices. So some names kind of fell out of favor
Some became more more popular and stuff like that and pokam didn't sort the names or filter names by date
So he just took everyone in that lexicon even people who lived who are like contemporaneous with alexander the great
All the way to 200 and what we did we actually took care to filter the names so that we are only comparing gospels and acts with people who are actually
contemporary with the events of gospels and acts and it turned out that if you filter the data that way
The distribution of name popularity in gospels and acts fits the contemporary population better
Than if you just use all of the data, which is what pokam did
So we still meant his case that way
We used like a subset that is a better match for it works better for his case
Is it fair to say and i'm sure paul has something to say on this too like
The paul as you edited this because what happens to me when i'm editing content for my documentaries
I'll script stuff. I actually learn what i'm editing
deeper as I go
Would you say paul as you edited this you felt like
that
What bakum is trying to do is say these names prove
Historicity therefore these people exist it gets you one step closer to saying if the people exist
Then the things that happen that they account for the people probably happened
So it's reliable. Is that what it seems to you?
um
For sure. I hadn't actually read bakum's book
Before this and i've now read that chapter of course
But it is crazy
one of the things that came out of it was like
how
Over confidently he's making this case compared to how i'm used to hearing him in interviews in interviews. He's very
Uh, like like you'd expect from a scholar at least somewhat humble about results
And it's probably this and it's probably that there's some reason this particular issue for him
uh
He's overexpressing himself and that was one of the things that I definitely saw when I was researching it also just to delve into this
Hundreds of years old lexicon and realizing that there were several volumes that came out after that
um
Like just I kind of got lost in my own weeds that that camille and brian sent me on definitely looking at
Looking at all these names and what was popular where and and I also um
The dispera was a new thing for me. I hadn't really thought I hadn't really been familiar with that
I don't know Derek. Are you familiar with that? Yes? Yes? Yeah, that was I had to because there was this really strange
group called israel only
And i'm not i'm not gonna get lost in the details
But they were trying to argue that all of the gentiles all the non-jews
That paul's trying to save
Our genetic ethnic descendants of abraham that were scattered among the nations since the assyrian and the babelonian conquest
Oh my gosh, it's pretty much the argument is these israelites became a diaspora lost their true identity and paul's trying to re
You know get them back into their true identity and make them recognize who they are and all the it's it's a crazy thing
So it was weird fringe ideas that helped me to learn things along the way
Yeah, like I saw like I just wanted to affirm that when someone like me gets this
Great opportunity when scholars come on and talk about these things
I can nod my head during the interview part or just like whatever
But then when I have to go illustrate it on screen, I have to go actually learn it for myself and that is a joy
so
Thank you for that. That was awesome
I remember when I first read balkan's book and I remember getting to that chapter
and my first I mean I I noted how confident he was with very little data and
That that by itself. I was like, okay something something doesn't smell right here and uh, and
And so and then I was looking at it. It's like the data set is extremely small and
And he doesn't do any statistical tasks. He's he has all these kind of arbitrary things and and just that combined with his confident language
Really made me go, okay
So, you know, this someone needs to look into this at some point because it's it's pretty detailed
but I think there's a tendency I think
To what I what I call like argument by big books fallacy and essentially it's it's the have you read balkan's book and if you
Haven't then you can't comment on it and the book is like, you know, 800 pages long or something
People do the same thing with kreg keener's big book on miracles, right?
You know, they say you can't talk about miracles if you haven't read all of you know keener's
Miracle claims because maybe one of those is actually good, right?
You know in in there and and so that that was one of the another motivator
I think for trying to try to look at some of these things because you know the just to put out
um
Because we haven't seen any major responses about this particular
Chapter and this is the most quantitative one and people can get scared with numbers and that's why you know, it's people just trust it
You like oh, he's doing numbers. He must it must be right and and and I've seen that in many fields and it raises my red flags
And I like to delve into it when it's possible
So I think we are already cannibalizing the presentations
So we want to share the screen absolutely and I just want to say the smart move having brian join you on that camille because
Yeah, absolutely. Nice. We need the numbers guy. We need you to crunch the numbers. All right. I'm
You're gonna share your screen, correct?
Yeah, so I just uploaded the presentation into this into stream yards. It's processing
So if you have anything funny to say while it's processing then now is the time
Okay, I don't know we we should have probably done that before because I don't know how long it's going to take
Um, yeah, you are a matrix kind of guy. You're gonna get lost into this
So get your popcorn. Grab your drink. Whatever. Hopefully, um, you're ready for there. We go deep stuff. So there we go
Cool. So, um, all right, you can see it. Awesome. Awesome. So sure
So what is it that we actually did? Well, we published some paper or whatever. This is how it looks, right?
Um, so let's just start
Uh, everyone already knows that Jesus and the eyewitnesses by Richard Bochum
What what is the book actually about? Well, he argues that
The gospels and acts the canonical ones are based on eyewitness testimony
Not on what he calls anonymous community transmission, which is basically kind of the idea that
um
stories about Jesus were uh
circling around
Christians were converting their neighbors and they were converting their neighbors and stuff like that and some things kind of got lost in
translation or
They got invented uh because people tend to do this kind of stuff. Well, that's the overarching thesis of the book
Oh, this didn't lie. Uh, this didn't import correctly. Oh, that might be an issue. Uh, okay
You know what go ahead and stop sharing for one second. I'm gonna fix this open up your power point
But yeah, okay, I'll show you. I'll stop shedding
Uh, I can stop I can stop it for you if you'd like remove it. Um, all right
Let me
Ooh
I can kick it from studio, but I don't know if it'll kick you
Let me try
Oh, no, it says kick guest. I can't do that. So if you if there's a way at the bottom, um, can you next from studio?
Okay, I can see you. All right. So this time what you're gonna do is open your powerpoint and then go down and hit present
Don't do it into stream yard. Just share your screen and then we'll do it that way
Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. So I need to do this. I need to do this and I need to do this
uh, so
Share screen
And which one
This one, all right
Can you see it? There you go. Yes, sir. Cool. Cool. So let's do a second take
so basically, uh, so
You know, there's a number of arguments in the book
Uh, most of the stuff that's in it has been responded to by other scholars
But there's one chapter on this name popularity argument that uh, hasn't been responded that much
They have there have been like one response in 2014 and then one actually early this year. Um
So we are like one of the the few scholars who have actually looked into the chapter
And the chapter looks at personal names in gospels and acts and the argument it basically makes is that
When you look at people who show up in gospels and acts and they have a name
They are given a name and you look at name popularity in that sample. It lines up pretty well with
uh
Name popularity in the sample of all known palestinian jews from antiquity, right?
So this is just like one way how to present the data across all of the names from palestine that we know of
And you can see that like at at the first glance
There is some kind of correspondence, right? So so there are some
Outliers so some names are maybe uh, under represented some are over represented
but you know, like
It picks up, uh, when it comes to like the line picks up when it comes to the the most popular names
And that's something that you that tends to happen in gospels and acts as well
And bokehm actually says that this correspondence
Exists because the people who are mentioned in gospels and acts actually existed in history
And he makes the argument that if a lot of them were invented
Then these two this correspondence wouldn't be the case because people who are inventing
Characters wouldn't know which names are appropriate to use
And more importantly, they wouldn't get the proportions, right? Right. So they would maybe use names that
uh, palestinian jews actually had
But they would use a name too little or too much. So that would be discrepancies, right and
because
Bokehm's thinks that this correspondence can establish that the people the named characters in gospels and acts existed in history
that like lends support to his overarching thesis of the book that
The content of the gospels was actually sourced by eyewitnesses
so
So far so good. Uh, why did we decide it to look into it?
Well, one reason is because the conclusion of the book is supposedly
The majority position in new testament scholarship, right?
So if you think that the gospels are not based on eyewitness testimony who are in the minority
At least three years ago. There was a research and it's kind of infamous for
Because of reasons, right? So michael akona had a
um
had a
master's student
Who joshua but here who went through over 200?
works of
He claims critical scholarship in english on the authorship of the gospel of mark and from 1965 and apparently
Most scholars more than half think that mark was actually the author of mark's gospel and that Peter was his source
So what Bokehm says at least from this data set is actually the majority position
now
The obvious issue is that we don't actually have that
Research because it wasn't published. It was a master's thesis at some university where local laconna teaches
and
Both palletier and lacon actually refused to make it publicly available. Which means that we can't
Check we can't see whether they omitted any critical scholars
Whether the sample is actually critical scholars or whether they have like confessional commentaries and stuff like that
We can't see whether the proportion of scholars changes over time
Because it's you know
1965 to 2020 or 2019
So is is it for example the case that recently this proportion is very
different
Uh-oh
You're muted camille. You muted
You're muted
In the name of jesus
In the name of jesus
Yeah, oh my gosh. He did y'all just witness that
Um, please continue brother. Please continue. That was tell me that wasn't hallelujah, right?
Yeah, so so that that was that's one of the reasons the second reason is that jesus and the eyewitnesses is actually extremely influential, right? So
um
society of biblical literature has a has a website that
Like a database of every publication that comes out in biblical studies
And you can scrape it. So I just scraped all the publications that are in the database
That were published three years before and after jesus and the eyewitnesses, which is about
2600 and then I spent a couple of days manually checking google scholar and recording how many
each public how many citations each publication has
and that because I wanted to see like
What percentile is jesus and the eyewitnesses in terms of how often it's cited in academic literature
And I was completely shocked because it turns out it's the fifth most cited
You you have to control for how old it is because obviously all the publications have had more time to accumulate citations
But if you actually look at only the sample of publications that are about the same age
It's amazing
and usually what happens in uh academia is that there is like a
Correlation between how good the publication is and how many citations it has right?
So like I don't know forgery and counter forgery is very influential and it's also pretty good
um something like I don't know on the historicity of jesus not very well cited
Not very good to to be honest, right? But jesus and the eyewitnesses is like a massive outlier
Because it's been cited like I don't know like 1200 times or something like that
But not just the chapter that we did the article on
But also a lot of the other other arguments in the book are like profoundly goofy, right?
another reason that why we decided to write the article is because
Almost everything else that in the book has been responded to
So so this is like one footnote from the article that we've written that just lists some of the most important responses to bloca
but
One notable exception is the chapter
That has the name popularity argument in it
No, almost nobody has responded to it
where you can find it cited
is in apologetics and in new testament scholarship that is like
That's leaning. I don't know evangelical or conservative or something like that, right? So craig, uh, marty lumew, for example, cites it
Sean mcdowell cites it, right? So those are the people who cite it approvingly
um
It's based on hard data
So people kind of implicitly seem to trust it. So this is just like one sentence from one review of jesus and the eyewitnesses
I think from back like 2008
So the reviewer said the hard data that is utilized definitely gives an authoritative tone to the discussion. Yeah, we'll see about that
So not many people kind of fact checked it. A lot of people seem to trust it implicitly
and
What one thing that's that's really like weird is that
Jesus and the eyewitnesses has been released the second time. So the second edition was 2017
And the second edition is basically the same. There are some additional chapters and the
Preface to the second edition was written by simon gathakall who is also like a
conservative new testament scholar and and he's specific in the preface. He specifically
Highlights this argument from name popularity
And he actually says that he was in a church and the pastor was holding a copy of jesus and the eyewitnesses
and he was talking about how this argument like establishes that
The gospels are based on eyewitness testimony
Because you have this like objective research based on actual statistical data, right? And not only did simon gathakall
I don't know like proactively disclose this anecdote
He even asked the pastor to send him the speech of the sermon and he quoted large sections of it in the preface
So this is making grounds in apologetics, right?
And maybe the most important reason why I decided to write the article is because there is like a massive
Disproportion between how confident bokam is
When it comes to what he says and what he actually does with the data on name popularity
so
He doesn't do any actual statistical analysis. He just looks at some tables basically
So he gets some onomastic data. We are going to talk about where he got them from and what he does with it
But he just tablets them. He looks at the
Tables he kind of squints his eyes a little he calculates some percentages
But he doesn't for example check statistical significance, right? Which is something that you should probably do
But based on that he uses extremely strong language to talk about what his data supposedly show. So
Data which is limited and problematic we're going to talk about that
Doesn't do any actual statistical analysis, but still he writes things like
Simply could not have been could not possibly have impossible to explain
Oh, this is like a massive right flag, right?
And not just me but also brian and some other people who have read jesus and the eyewitnesses
Like for them. This is suspicious
And so that that's like an incentive to look into it
um, I had the same
Feeling and when I found out, okay, nobody almost nobody has actually looked into this
Maybe because there isn't like the relevant competency in biblical studies, right?
Not not that many people are competent in in statistics even though some are actually
So let's let's see if we can do something with it
And what we found out when we started looking into it was like
We kept getting better and better and I think the article actually
Turned out pretty nice. So I think questions so far everything clear
I'm picking up what you're putting down and I think this is good for our audience to understand how you're leading into this
Yeah, and just so you guys know shannon q says one of these guys
one of these guys
One of these one of these guys
All right, sorry, that was the break the commercial break. Thank you. Yeah, no problem. So, um, okay
So where does the data about main popularity come from and what does will come do with them, right?
so he actually relies on a
Grimoire or an
Necronomicon of jewish names in late antiquity that was put together by other people
Most importantly tal ilan who is a jewish
German jewish scholar
That but and she's been working on this for like 50 years now because she's here in this
She says she's been working on it for 30 years and the first volume was published in like 2002. So
This is basically as I mentioned like a phone book where every
A person that we know of
In the ancient world who was jewish and we know their personal name is recorded
It's like one row or one entry
And what you get is their name
Uh, the source of information. So where the name shows up that could be ostraca coins
inscriptions or shuaries
Sources, you know, like the talmud christian sources and stuff like that
and some additional information about the name and
Maybe some caveats like sometimes it's not clear whether the name is male or female
Sometimes it's not even clear whether it's a personal name because it could also be for example toponym. So like a place name
Sometimes the person is suspected of being fictitious. For example, depending on the source and stuff like that
So what will come does with this data is that he tabulates it
So he doesn't report the individual records. He just reports the totals
And what we found out right away is that I actually went to the library of the jewish museum in brak
Which happens to have all of the lexicon volumes and I just tested whether if I take the lexicon
I will be able to aggregate and get the sum the same totals
But I actually found out that I'm not able to do it
And then I discovered that about one in ten of every figure that he reports is miscalculated
So so this is an example of one of his largest tables or the largest tables
Table it's the name popularity of mail names
And all of the data points that are in red are actually incorrect
They are either miscalculated
Or in some cases you can see that the correct number is printed
In a different column or row
So it's just something got messed up in printing or editing or something like that
Which like it would be fine except the book has been out for 17 years
It got a second edition
And this hasn't been got and it hasn't been fixed
And why do you think that is if I if I can ask because
Well, because nobody wanted to fact check it right like
Bocam didn't ask anyone to kind of go over his numbers
He definitely didn't ask any statistician, which is what I did right like that's why
Nice to meet you Brian
And uh, yeah like peer reviewers didn't notice the people who reviewed the book
So so other scholars who wrote like reviews for journals didn't notice
Some of it was scored by some of the scholars who have responded to specifically that chapter
But for some reason like nothing was done done about it when the second edition was published
And this is even though Bocam says explicitly
There is hardly anything I would want to change in the text of the second edition
Right, but still in the second edition the table says that there were four people named eros in the new testament
You know
And I remember when I read the book like I don't know 10 years ago or something like that
And because I'm you know, I I did my first page in political science
And when you do that you you learn some basic statistics quantitative methods some coding and stuff like that
So I was like super excited about the chapter because that's actually some like hard data, right?
So I was going through the tables. I was like
Wait, are there people named eros in the new testament and I thought okay, maybe like Paul in his letters, you know how
When he closes the letters
He mentioned some names who like greed the the people of the community that he's sending the letter to or something like that
I thought that's going to be some people named eros in it, right?
But actually no
That's just uh, there's just a typo or like incorrectly printed, you know
Some yeah, that's not good. Yeah, they get through peer review. I think mostly because
The effort needed to verify a table like that
Is is kind of huge and and you might not have access to those
So that big phone book of of jewish names and so you'll just be like, yeah, you know, I trust this guy can count
Right, that's pretty much what you're what you're doing, which is generally pretty low barring and in these sorts of things
But you know, ideally peer review someone tries to make sure to reproduce these sorts of problems
But uh, but I can see there's this, you know, you get this basically a big page of numbers and you're like, okay
How do I
Fact check this thing, you know, if I can and they just focus on what he says about the numbers rather than the table itself
And just to add one more thing to that Camille is that you're suggesting in this
It's not just that numbers are off like maybe there's miscalculations of the actual names
But that in this case
That's completely erroneous. This is in this situation
Yeah, yeah, I mean
You can see how something like this would happen right because clearly like for the number four is the total
But for some reason it got printed in the column that corresponds to numbers in gospels and acts
Right as well as in the the column that reports the total
So that happened, okay
And again, like this this this doesn't mean much except it's really unfortunate that
This is in the book for 17 years
And the book got second edition and this hasn't been fixed, right? So to what extent is a for those of us who aren't in academia
to what
Are I know how I kind of have an idea of how papers are peer reviewed
But are books peer reviewed
In the same way or does or as peer reviewing a book means something different than peer viewing a paper
This so this this is kind of uh, I don't know if Brian has some experience
But this is kind of a dirty secret
Where like from my personal experience from from political science. Yeah, like when you're writing a book
The even though even when you want to say, okay, this book was refereed or peer reviewed
Usually the criteria are much more laxed
and it's usually because the
Peer reviewers are handpicked by the author. They are not actually
Uh, it's not actually anonymous peer review, right?
So for example, when I was publishing books in political science
I was told you need to find like two people who are going to be review it
So I just ask my like friends or other PhD students and stuff like that
So so I don't know like what what what exactly is the status with jesus india witnesses
If it wasn't peer reviewed, that would be super unfortunate given how like influential book is
Actually, I think it comes down sometimes. It's it's it's the the publisher. So so different publishers may have different levels of review
uh, the other thing time the practical point of
If you peer reviewed a book at the same level that you peer reviewed papers, then they would take 10 times longer
That's exactly. Yeah, it's 800 pages. So right, but something right. So something technical like this
And I have like, you know, so so uh, one of the books that I published with co-authors as a graduate student
Was kind of a summary of research that had happened over many years
And so each chapter although it had a little, you know, some extra
It was based off of a paper that was peer reviewed through typical journals
And so it had it's less likely to have this kind of mistake in it because the core content
Was drawn from actual from peer review journals
And so that also means that the reviewers for the book don't have to do quite as much because a lot of it's already been peer reviewed
Um, and I don't know what this is. I mean this chapter in particular
It seems to me to be the the perfect kind of
like
thing to have published separately as
As a journal article, I don't think it has but that's the that's the case. So
Um, but it does it has another problem though that because he there are these
massive kind of typographical errors
It is literally impossible to reproduce his his results because we can't reproduce the the percentages that he gets
We can't reproduce in either for the gospels or for like what he's comparing it to in terms of palace time
So so one can always make the claim that we haven't reproduced his result
But but because of these errors, it is literally impossible in detail to to reproduce his result in in
But but we can actually kind of improve what he he did. So in that sense, you know, where we are
Trying to essentially make, you know, correct these sorts of errors
Yeah, yeah, that's that's actually a good point. So like we we couldn't we this is something that I found out like
In the first week of working in this into the working on this
I realized that we can't just use his numbers
We actually have to go back to the lexicon and we have to start from scratch
And kind of build it from from ground up
Yeah, and just full transparency the the journal article that we've published
That's it's been out for like, I don't know two weeks now and since it was published
I I've already noticed three things that are incorrect in it
And actually that actually makes me super pissed because I've read it like 10 times Brian's read it several times
It's gone through peer reviews peer reviews that were like proofreaders and stuff like that
But still there are things that we didn't catch, right?
Um, I love that you're pointing out about your own article
About the now they're obviously errors as you described earlier that aren't detrimental to your case
But like it's like it's it's irrelevant to the case itself
But like it's it's interesting that you're pointing out
Yeah, I made these mistakes and like how even you are pointing out how the process is not
Oh, I had my stuff peer reviewed when you hear that that what does that mean? I mean, yeah, it's it's never a hundred percent
Yeah, you you can read it a million times and still you'll just get you get blinds to to your own content, right?
Let's move on. So we we also need to talk about what he does with the names, right?
Because he his sample doesn't actually have an everyone in it. He filters some of the people out
And the reasons are like valid, but in some cases the application is questionable, right?
So he's got
The population of ancient Palestinian Jews and he's got people from gospels and acts
So obviously when he he needs to put together a list of named characters
So that he can kind of see how well the distribution of name popularity lines up with the contemporary population
So obviously first thing that you need to do is throw out non-humans like satan angels and stuff like that
You need to throw out people from a thousand years ago like David
Solomon and so on
Then he obviously only
Looks at the Jews, which means everyone who isn't Jewish goes out
Including for example, Simon because he's excluding Samaritan Jews actually
Then he only looks at people from Palestine. So everyone who wasn't born in Palestine
But was born in the Jewish diaspora is also excluded. So for example, aposopol is not in Balkans sample
This is super important because
Uh
Obviously the one region in the ancient world where you have the largest amount of names is Jewish Palestine
You have a lot of names from the diaspora, but they are kind of in small samples that are scattered all over. So you you have
some names from
Egypt you have some names from
Sairini you have some names from Italy, but by far the most names are
From Palestine. So it makes sense to limit your sample to only people who are from Palestine
So everyone who shows up in gospels and acts or in the lexicon, but isn't from Palestine gets excluded
Then he excludes family names
Because that's a whole kind of worms. He excludes names that function as nicknames
So in this case the dimus means a twin
Cifas obviously it's just a remake for a rock and then he excludes everyone that he thinks is fictional
Which there's just one person in gospels and acts actually that he thinks is fictional and that's lazarus
But only in the parable in the gospel of luke because boh comes things that
Lazarus from of betami from the gospel of john is a different person from lazarus in luke
And he actually existed. So so lazarus in john
Existed but lazarus and luke didn't cool. I can't wait to get into some of these things with you. I already know
Yeah, yeah, so so that's that's one thing right
We found out that we can't actually because remember that we are starting from scratch
So I got the four volumes of the lexicon that's like this thick right
And i'm just going through the names trying to put together like a data set that doesn't have all of these issues
What I found out is I can't actually reapply all of these criteria because boh come doesn't say
How exactly he do that right like he thinks like he says things like names that I judge
often in agreement with ilan
Which is the main author of the lexicon to be probably nicknamed our nicknames are not included
Which means he only sometimes agrees with ilan but not always, you know
And he doesn't say like systematically in which case is he he agrees with her and when he doesn't so
Okay, that's that's another let's say issue because it prevents you from reconstructing the data
Exactly the same way how we did that because he doesn't document all of the different things that he did with the data
Or so that that's another issue
Cool. So but we somehow managed to put that together
Here's the list of all the people from gospels and acts who actually
Pass all of the criteria, right? So we are excluding summaritans excluding non-jews excluding everyone from the diaspora and so on
This is I think 79 different
Name occurrences, which means some people are actually in this list twice if they had two names
so
John mark is
on the list twice
one as john
And the second time as mark
Simon peter is here twice as well once as simon and the other time as peter
This is important because we are looking at distribution of name popularity
So someone can have two names. One of them is popular and the other one isn't
So you have to take both names into consideration and also it's the case that in some cases
Someone had multiple someone is reported as having multiple names
But some sources only seem to know about one name
But not another name. For example, none of the gospel authors seem to know that high priest kaifas was actually named joseph
Like that that was his actual name kaifas is just a family name
But the name kaifas in the gospels functions the same way how his personal name would otherwise function
So this is something that you need to control
and
The most important maybe the most important thing about our research is that you have to realize
that
bokham is saying that
On his view all of these people actually existed in history
But not everyone on his on this list is in contention of being invented in the first place
So the people that he's arguing against
Agree that a lot of these people actually existed
Their historical existence is not in question
Which means
When you are evaluating his work, you need to throw these people out of the sample
Because both sides of that argument or of that conversation
Have the same position when it comes to these names
So you don't have to bother
Right you only need to focus and zero in on the names that are contested
And those are the names of people who are not
Externally attested meaning they don't show up in any other source other than gospels and acts
And later sources that are dependent on them like early christian authors and stuff like that
So let's start throwing people out
First we are going to throw out everyone who is mentioned in the authentic letters of bok like james
john peter
And just so that like jesus mythicists and other people are like don't start screeching
We are just granting that these people existed and that their identity
Is what bokum thinks it is right because
I don't know how
Dispute it it is for example who john who is mentioned in the galatians
Which john that actually is right?
Probably john son of zebedee, but some people would say for all we know it's a different person named john
We don't go into it. We just grant that these are the people that bokum identifies
So these are externally attested meaning they are not in conjunction of being invented. So we just remove them from the sample
Then we remove everyone who is attested in any other source in coins is inscriptions and stuff like that
That's 12 names and it just happens to be the case that they are all also mentioned by josephus
So you don't have anyone that we would know for example from coins
But josephus wouldn't mention that which is really interesting
In most cases these are high priests that there are three in gospels and acts
they are
members of the aristocracy
the herds and so on
Gamaliel john the baptist, uh, and that's pretty much it and the two
Jewish rebels who are mentioned in acts just the Galilean and though does so those are externally attested
They are not in contention of being invented
Even though some people might disagree
So we just remove them and the last group of people that we removed
Are people who are mentioned in the odd in the fragments of papias of hierapolis
And we decided to remove them because bokeh makes a big deal out of papias supposedly
Knowing companions of jesus's disciples
and in one of the fragments of papias probably from the
introduction of the
Domenical expositions that's quoted by ucb s
He actually papias actually names the disciples whose companions he heard from
Okay, we grant for the sake of argument that this is true and that
Papias really talked to some people who had some information that went back to the disciples of jesus
Meaning some of the information might have been independent from gospels and acts, right?
He didn't just get his information from reading gospels and acts just like everyone else like just the martyr
uh, ironia
ironias
claims to have some some extra
biblical sources, but whatever
So we just removed everyone who is mentioned by papias, right? That's uh,
some of the apostles, uh, judas scariat is actually, um, externally attested to exist if you go this route
So we just removed them
Which means that if you remove all of these people who are again not in contention of being invented
You can see that the sample of the names that are contested actually gets pretty small
Right and this has major
methodological implications because the smaller the sample size you have the more difficult is for it is for you to
Produce like statistical significant results, right? This is something that
I hope like people understand from let's say electoral pooling, right? Like if you have a large sample
Probably going to get better results if you have good representation that when you only have a small sample
There are some other issues
Like for example, some people are just completely omitted by bokem without an explanation
his list of characters named characters palestinian jewish characters from the first century
That show up in gospels and acts just straight up doesn't have some of these people
He never explains why they are probably just omitted
Forgot about them. I don't know why right tertulus is the attorney in acts, right?
husa is a or housa is
A steward and friend of I think herald antipas
Isn't on balkan's list for some reason
And what's very important is that if we wanted to we could have kept
deleting people from the sample because bokem in a separate
Publications that he's written argues that other people from gospels and acts are actually sufficiently externally attested
specifically he argues that some members of jesus's family and nicodemus
Are attested to have existed
Because there are for example some early christian authors like hegesypus who mentioned some traditions about jesus's family
That doesn't seem to come from gospels and acts
And bokem tries to establish that those traditions are like independent
So we can actually know that these people were not invented and actually existed
If we wanted to
We could have grant him this and we could have removed even more people from the sample
We decided not to
Why we could have right?
So you can push this even further and you can keep shrinking the size of the the sample size of the data that you have available
But we decided not to
And the second issue
This is something that I mentioned in the video is that when you are putting together a list of who is who in the new testament
You find out that it's actually unclear
And you find out that there are actually different christian traditions about personal identity of different people
so
For example is matthew and levi the same person
Some christian denominations are just going to have one saint matthew levi
But then there are other christian denominations that have saint matthew and saint levi
Which if you think about it is like mental right because it's one of the characters from gospels and acts so
Shouldn't you know if that's the same guy or not?
If this is like divinely inspired scripture, you know, it's kind of important
And it's actually turns out that there is a lot of people like that
And it's important because whether you count like one simon or two in particular instances
Obviously changes how many times that that name occurs in gospels and acts and then it has
impact on how
Well, the name is how well the popularity of that name in gospels and acts lines up with the total population
Uh, so this is just something that you also need to keep in mind that like all of these judgment calls are in the background of what
Wokam is doing
And in at least one case
It seems to be the case that the way how he's treating the data
becomes circular
Because if you know your uh gospels and acts really well, you will know that in act six
that is the scene where
Seven deacons are elected in the early church, right?
And acts even gives their name and Wokam
Throws all of those people out of the data set
He doesn't say why he just says he thinks that they were all born in the diaspora
but
The text itself doesn't say that and there isn't any indication that this is true
So I don't know where like Wokam got this from
And it's it's even worse because one of them Nikolaos is explicitly said to be from Antioch
Which means that like at face value all of the rest of them are just from Palestine
Which is where the scene takes place, right?
And what's very important is that all of them have a greek name
And if this is the reason why Wokam decided to exclude them
It's circular because one of the indicators of how well the distribution of name popularity lines up with the palestinian jewish population
Is the percentage of uh named characters with a greek name?
right
So he's kind of like I don't want to say he's manipulating the data to get a better result
But if you actually take those these names and you put them back into the sample except for Nikolaos who shouldn't be there
you find out that
characters with a greek name are statistically significantly over represented in gospels and acts
Compared to the palestinian jewish population. So you actually get an outlier
But you only get that if you exclude all of these people, which is something that Wokam doesn't justify
So that's like a red flag, you know
Yeah, any questions?
I I would like to mention
I I don't have the exact example of which synagogue, but when I traveled over in israel
We were in several synagogues in the galley and then we as we went closer to jerusalem. There were some synagogues right there
Uh outside of jerusalem like right where we were at and on the floor there were there was hebra and greek
Uh inscriptions and a lot of the names were greek. I can't remember if they were all godfors
or if this was a combination of jews with greek names and
you know
Greeks or non non-jews that helped fund building the the synagogue, etc
But it would be impressive to find that because i've seen in previous interviews with others
Who kind of fall into that bacham category of wanting everything to be historical the undesigned coincidence crowd and stuff
They like to dichotomize
Like really split hairs on jews and jerusalem would never
Be as Hellenized as you guys try to make them out to be and i'm saying
Wrong like i'm not saying that they weren't maybe heightened in their religious sense
Because they're closer to the heart of their temple, etc
But i'm saying
I think that that's just there's so much problem
In assuming that they're so dichotomized and anti-hellenist and so
That would mean jews would be carrying the name as you mentioned in the apologia video even somewhere named zeus. I mean
You can't get any more Hellenized than that. So
Anyway, well actually actually so when it comes to when it comes to so
There is a lot into lexicon. There is a lot of people who are identifiable as jewish who have a pagan theophric names
Which means it's a name that has a component. That's like a personal name of a greek god like zeus, right?
so deogenes for example, which means born of zeus is
A name that's attested
When it comes to names where the uh, divine name is specifically zeus
The the case for hellenization is a little bit weaker because you could say that that was just a their way how to
Transliterate or like transcribe
Yahweh into greek language, right? So when a jew in
First century palestine was talking about zeus
It's possible that he kind of like syncretized or what he meant by that was was yahweh
I agree just yeah in the greek cultural world the the top deity is zeus
so
When you if you are given the name
Diogenes or deogenes doesn't necessarily mean that your family is like worshiping the pagan gods
It could just mean that that's a like a theophoric name that where the divine element is like a greek
Greek parallel to to yahweh a much better case
Are names like apolodorus gift from apolo because if you are a palestinian jew who is named apolodorus
Something went wrong with the family right because apolon
Best case scenario doesn't exist worst case scenario scenario is like a demon right in the
jewish thought
Right, but those kinds of names are attested. They are not like super common, but they are attested
Like many of them if in in in gospels acts you have apolos
The jewish christian
Right who was who only knew uh johns baptism. So his name is derived from apolon
And you have an ass who shows up in acts as well, right?
One of the the persons that that that all healed and we all know who an ass was right like
What's the what who's the one person that's named an ass in the ancient world? What's the the the um
Ancestor of the romans, right? We escaped Troy. So there you go, right people would obviously know that
I was gonna say brian must be from the people's front of judia or the the judia in front of people and paul
We know he had to be an apostle. There's no doubt about that. So
Well, I learned this week that you know, apolos has nothing to do with apologia
so
I was gonna maybe steer my channel if if ever apolos worship ever became big
I was gonna steer my channel that way, but apparently it's not
Doesn't work one of the things that i noticed in this whole process though is um
Whenever i've tried whenever i've you know published a paper like in a technical field
One of the most important things is to be able to show
Exactly how you go from the raw data to what you actually use and what are all the steps
It's why it's common to post like whatever your computer code is if you're doing a statistical analysis of something
That goes so because you often will have to filter the data because you're looking at a certain problem
blah blah blah and so um
And so it's really critical to kind of lay out especially so that someone could reproduce exactly what you're doing
And and it seems like there has been no effort to do that at all
And and that to me i mean i've seen that but it's it's it's really uh unfortunate when it happens because it really isn't something that that one should
You know
You'll find in a proper academic
You know paper
Yeah, so so after you make all of the judgment calls and you do all of the data filtering and stuff like that
This is the sample that you get so these are the contested characters
And it shows you how many like how popular the name is in gospels and acts
So how many contested characters with that name?
There are so we can see that the most popular name is for example simon and there are eight simons
and immediately what becomes apparent is that
so
By the way, like the labels are taken from the lexicon so
There are different ways how to anglicize or trans transcribe the names
but the lexicon just
Aggregates that so that all of the different variants of the same name are
just like
Together right so tolemy for example the one tolemy that shows up in the contested sample is bar tolemyu
Which is like a an anglicized version of a son of tolemy
Which balkan just
Puts together with with other people who are named tolemyos or something like that
And le azar for example is lazarus. That's the same name right jacob is is james
juda is can be joseph
No, sorry juda can be jude or judas joseph joseph
That's the variant of the same name
simon simon another another instance and what you can see right away from this is that
It you mute it again something happened again, it's satan in the name of jesus
Um
That's how we know that what we're doing is against god because god is messing with kimil san. This is what's happening
Cool. Can you hit me now? Yes
That was paul's powers that time though not mine
cool
So so something that you happen that you see right away is that
Almost the internet data set actually consists of people who uh
Only consists of names that only have one user in gospels and acts right so
There's only a handful of names that show up more than once
And what's very important is that all of those names are also among the most popular names in palestine
Which goes a long way towards explaining
How you would get a distribution of name popularity like that
But before we go into it
Uh, we need to talk about a very important component of the chapter
Which is the fact that bokeh makes a big deal out of the fact that
apparently popularity of personal name in palestine was very different than in the diaspora
and what he wants to argue is that look
skeptics say or like forum critics say that the gospels were written in the diaspora
So like mark was written in italy or something
Matthew was written in alexandria or syria or something like that
And it's just the case that even jews living in italy or in syria
Name popularity was very different in the region
And it was apparently very difficult for people to pick appropriately palestinian jewish names
So if a lot of characters were invented in diaspora
The distribution of name popularity wouldn't line up so well
It would be out of whack
It would be more similar to the distribution of name popularity that you get in the diaspora
But and this is probably the most like hilarious aspect of the chapter
His entire
Evidential support for that idea is 45 names. All of them from are from egypt
Based on that, he says that if
Invention of names took place in the diaspora the appropriate names
Simply could not have been chosen and the distribution of names would be impossible to explain
All right
Okay, like that's a lot. I actually
Hunted even the source behind this data
And I discovered and this is something that bockham doesn't say that out of those 45 names
Elephant names are from the same town from leon topoles
Which is where like a a competitor to the second Jerusalem temple was built
I think it's a part of alexandria. You're talking about in egypt. Uh, we would call what harry harry oppalus something like that, I guess
Uh, I'm not sure. Uh, but but the the point is that like, okay
If you have a sample of 45 names and 11 of them are from just from one location
All right, like
I don't know brad do you want to say something about that because I would have to be like
I would probably have
Yeah, I mean it's really I mean the number is so small that and and it's clear, you know
Sometimes the data that you get is not ideal. It's what you have and you had to make the best out of it, but
Um, but that's you just need to tone down your your conclusions
And you can't say that, you know, if I happen to get a data set that comes from like, you know, say possibly two
Maybe three small locations. You know a quarter of the data comes from one town
that i'm going to make a real, uh, a
A strong claim about jews basically everywhere outside of palestine, right? It just it's just
You just can't support that kind of claim with that few few data points
Yeah, well said like just think about that like if there was one family just one family
that for some like idiosyncratic reason
Really liked the name dos it was for example, which is one of the names that
popular among these 45 names
And that's just happens to be the family where the the osuary we
Happened to found like randomly that would throw this data out of whack right in like pretty significant way because it's just 45 people
Uh, so yeah, that's uh, this is not good
And of course, uh, so that's one problem the sample size is small
But of course the assumption that if invention of names took place in palestine
The people making the invention which would be either people who are telling the stories or it would be the gospel authors themselves
Just wouldn't be able to pick appropriately palestinian jewish names like that assumption
Bocum doesn't
Justify it. He just presupposes that this is the case or he just asserts it right
So what we did in the article is we kind of suggested some what we call channels of exposure of how
Christians in the diaspora
Would possibly know
That some palestinian jewish names are more popular than others
And so they would be more likely to use those names for any characters that were invented
And we have this nice table in the article
And the columns a b c d and e are the different channels of exposure basically
And what you see is that they tend to accumulate
Around the most popular names and these are exactly the only names that show up multiple times in gospels and acts
So these channels of exposure plausibly being the case
I think
Go some way towards explaining the distribution of name popularity that we see in gospels and acts, right?
So what are these first thing?
that's column number a is
It's really really interesting that
when it comes to how
males which is the
sample that we are working with in the article
Because there is just like not enough female names at all, right?
Like there the issues with sample sizes are just much much worse
So we just said okay, we're not even going to bother with with with female names
Because everything that we says about the small sample sizes
Just like multiple times worse. So when it comes to male names, it's actually really interesting that by the first century
An overwhelmingly large percentage of male jews were given names of macabrean leaders
So alizar and then his sons
Simon joseph
And so on and this this was apparently a way how to
show support for the macabrean
political project essentially right against the palanization and stuff like that
about 38 of
all male names
In the lexicon that are from first century palestine are macabrean names
Which is a lot like when you have a population
You won't probably find that strong accumulation of only a handful of names being this popular
Right, like if you picked, uh, I don't know contemporary amarycon population
The top I think it's seven names wouldn't account for nearly this much if you took
Ancient greek, uh, actually population, which we have a prosopagraphy for that as well
We have a list of named known named people for that as well
The even the most popular names don't account for nearly this large a percentage of a population
With roman names, it could be different because for some reasons romans just kept recycling the same like 10 names
Everyone was named like death symbols or something like that right, but this is definitely unusual
Now what we argue is that
given that
It was apparently stereotypical for a palestinian jew to have a macabrean name
It's not super implausible that even people in the diaspora would know that this is how jews specifically from palestine
Were very often named right like the fact that this is so frequent
Kind of motivates you into thinking that yeah, maybe someone in the first century like know that
Jews specifically for from palestine are often named simon because simon was one of the the major macabrean brothers
Oh, that's one channel of exposure
The the second channel of exposure are of course, it is of course the fact that
It's established that even before the gospels were written
Christians in the diaspora were exchanging letters and even visiting jewish christians who were specifically from palestine
So for example, we know that from the polain epistles that pol mentions
People like peter james john
So those are some of the that's again like a different channel of exposure
So people were sending correspondence and they were visiting each other
So that's another way how they would have known some palestinian jewish names
And then c and d
And e as well actually
It's just the fact that of course the gospel authors
might have some indication
About certain palestinian jewish names being more popular than others because they had sources
And probably the most important source are prior gospels, right? So the author of the gospel of matthew, for example, just takes
Most of the names that he mentions. I think all of them except one or two from the gospel of mark
Right. So the reason why the the the author of the gospel of matthew sort of gets it right
Is the author of the gospel of mark who gets it right as well
And it's actually interesting that if you look at the first gospel the gospel of mark
The most popular names in palestine are already very popular in the gospel of mark
But if you actually look at where exactly they are located in the text
You find out that for a lot of these really popular names. They cluster in two lists of names
You have the names of the 12 12 apostles
And you have the list of jesus's brothers
It could be the case that either of these two lists is authentic actually either completely or at least partially
Which means that if i'm in order of the gospel of mark and i want to invent an episode
Of jesus healing someone or meeting someone having conversation conversation someone or something like that
and
I need a name
I might want to lift a name
From the list of either the above of apostles or the list of jesus's brothers because that's something that i have available right
And if that tendency exists
It would explain
Why specifically names that show up in these lists have a tendency to be more popular in the total data set
Right, so it's just like explaining that there might have been sources that helped the gospel authors
To select appropriately palestinian jewish names
And one thing that's really important is that there is a big difference in terms of how many named characters
Each gospel author has and this is shown here. This is kind of busy. It's called a senki diagram
But it's actually really interesting if you kind of wrap your head around it, right? So
Can you see my uh, you don't see my mouse, right? Uh, how do I do that?
I don't oh, there you go. There you go
So so this these are all the names in the gospel of mark named characters in the gospel of mark
So you have 22 and this shows what happens to them
So a portion of them disappear
So they are only named in mark
And they then they disappear
Here would be for example, alexander and trufus the sons of saimon of sirene. They are not mentioned in any other gospel
But most of them
Are also mentioned in matthew
And some of them are mentioned in luke acts, but not in matthew, right?
17 named characters are in matthew. These are the contested names, by the way
So 17 contested names are in matthew. Where do they come from?
Most of them come from the gospel of mark, but some of them are added which means they are in matthew, but they are not in mark
But look what happens when you move to go to look acts, right?
Look acts has a huge number of named characters
Most of them come from matthew and out of those most of them come from mark
Some of them come directly from mark
But then there is a huge number of people that are get added that don't show up anywhere else
and this kind of makes sense because
especially in acts
There is a lot of new people because the events take place later
So those are events that take place after jesus's death
In some cases like years after jesus's death, right?
Because new jewish characters keep showing up even towards the end of acts when paul is being investigated and stuff like that
Most of them disappear, meaning they are not mentioned anywhere else
Some of them are also mentioned in john and then you have some addition of characters in john like
nicodemus, nathaniel and so on
So when you but the point is that the author of look acts is actually hugely important
When it comes to explaining this data set
Because if you ask the question, why is it the case that the name popularity in gospels and acts is in the total data set?
Lines up with the popularity in the contemporary population
It's the author of look acts
Who is a large degree responsible for this?
It's not the author of met you because he just grabs names from mark, right?
It's not the author of john because like most of the names he gets from someone else and he adds only a few
Is the author of look acts
So what if he used josephus?
That would explain it, right?
Because the works of josephus even including the antiquity
They have a large
number of cores of named first century palestinian Jews
And even scholars who don't think that the gospels are based on eyewitness testimony
And even scholars who don't think that the author of look acts used josephus
Still recognize that out of all of these four guys
This guy knows something about first century palestine
Even if he wasn't a troubling companion of paul, he knows
Some names of some rulers
He knows querenius for example. He gets it wrong, but he knows about him
He knows that herod the gray. He knows that herod wasn't basilos
That he wasn't the king, right? He corrects some of the titles
He knows some of the rebel leaders whether he got that from josephus or from somewhere else
So he is a really good candidate for having at least some information about some names of palestinian jubes being more popular than others
And he's simultaneously
The guy who is overwhelmingly responsible for the structure of the data set. So this
kind of correspondence or this alignment of him being the guy who is better informed
And him also being the guy who accounts for a large percentage of the data set
Goes a long way to explaining
Why the correspondence exists
And the the final reason and that then we can maybe stop for for some questions is
That's that's uh, he actually actually allowed me keep that
This is what we call mcdonald's doublets. So we of course cite denis mcdonald
Because he's amazing
And what specifically what he proposes is that in the gospel of mark some of the named characters kind of form pairs
around
And so there are basically pairs of characters that have the same personal name
and those pairs
Form reversal of expectation patterns, which are otherwise very often in the gospel of mark
A typical example is simon peter and simon of sirene. So you would expect that simon peter given that he is jesus's
Closest disciple. He is the one that shows up most often as the character in the narrative
Would be the one who would be by jesus's side towards the very end
But reversal of expectations happens
It's exactly simon peter peter who ends up denying jesus
And jesus's cross is then carried by simon of sirene who is a completely unknown character who shows up out of nowhere, right?
And mcdonald actually suggests that this isn't a coincidence
Because history actual history doesn't kind of unwind in nice
Doublets and reversals of expectations. He suggests that at least some of the people in those doublets were invented
In order to facilitate this reversal of expectation patterns
And it's interesting that if you actually look at who those people are
It's also mary, but we are only looking at males. It's again the same
Names and as you can see all of these considerations cluster around the same names
So any combination of these helps explain
Why we observe the pattern in the data that we do?
Because you have to remember these are the only names that show up more than once
And these are the most popular names both in gospels and acts and in the contemporary population
So this is where brian's part I think starts
so
If I think I was gonna say real quick before brian gets deep in our numbers because this is good
And I love how well well spoken and when you explain brian, you're really clear and I love that about you
Um, one interesting thing and you didn't get into the example, but you did mention
You know all these names work there camille is that joseph
I mean you have joseph the father of jesus
Who in you know the culture would have buried his son
He's not the one who buries him and I love that about mcdonald point is he's saying joseph of aramathia
The same name person as his father ends up burying jesus again playing that narrative reversal
kind of like
The highs and lows the way they structured this it signals to me that we're dealing with more literary
than literal
And that I I don't know how to
I wish I could press a button and just give that to our apologetic friends and have them see this
But my recent interview with hugo mendes on the gospel of john
You know, he was talking about it. He's writing a book co-authoring it with bart airman and he said
I don't want to be rude, but most people who are writing on john
I feel don't don't know how to read well
This is more more literary. It's not history
And if you're not seeing that I can't I don't know how to help
I don't know how to get people to like think in this way. So
thank you for
also vindicating
Dennis in light of the fact that he he is a juggernaut this guy's a maverick and
He's also been kind of in a way not
Valued the way I think he should because I understand some of his stuff's contentious and
But I I'm thankful that you did this. That's all my words
So
I also want to comment that that even bow come himself admits that a name like simon
might have been
Chosen for other reasons like being
You know a macabee a name or something like that that there might be for some of the super popular ones
There might have been some external reason for for for for choosing it
so even bow come he doesn't come out and quite and say that but
but it's it's it's very close and
And but he doesn't ever talk about how that might undermine his case
significantly if if some of those more popular names are really
Yeah, well, I mean that's that's very important to mention
So he he kind of makes a difference between what would happen if some characters were invented inside palestine by like
By people who are in palestine
And what would happen if they were invented in the diaspora and see he thinks that okay if they were invented in palestine
Then maybe the people making the like doing the inventing would know these most popular names, right?
So he grants that he he doesn't think they would know it if the invention took place in the diaspora
And our point is basically to show that no actually there are reasons to believe that even people in the diaspora would have
At least some like weak tendency to be more likely to pick
Simon as a name for invented character than let's say harkak or
Gipselos or something like that which are like rare
Names that are still attested in first century palestine one comment on shall we do statistical?
Yeah, I just want to make one comment when I was in kawaii. This is not a perfect correlation
But when I was in in kawaii, I did contract work for a year in afghanistan and I was passing through kawaii and I was getting a meal
um just
Average joe on the street in kawaii. I mean like most the people there don't speak english
But they they try to know a little bit and I go to order and they go new york
Uh new york and i'm like yeah i'm from the united states and they're like new york and i'm like
Yeah, you know, I just accept it. But the point is is like they know new york if I said north carolina they'd be like
New york right like and like they don't know that north carolina is not that popular but new york everybody knows that equates america
it's a bad correlation, but the point is is like
The the popularity even for people who probably never even know a thing about america that much
They at least know new york and can tie it in now imagine people who are jews
They have a heritage communal connection in some way. They're communicating
Even if they have differences in their approaches. So to assume that they don't know these popular names is kind of
That's I just don't think that's plausible. Yeah, I think like okay
I'm not sure if bokeh would make this argument
But like it would definitely be relevant for some christian apologists, right?
So there might be attention
If you want to say that simultaneously
I don't know if someone in
Paul's corinthian church wanted to fact check him on the 500 people who saw the risen jesus
Like it would be plausible for them to travel to palestine and like find those people or talk talk to them
But also saying that people
In the diaspora wouldn't know that simon is more popular than again like
Some obscure palestinian jewish name like heracles or something like that, you know
Can't have it both ways, right? I love that
Yeah, I either those were completely separate isolated communities. It's the same thing that comes up when people are
thinking about
The attestation to gospel authorship, right?
I say all of these different authors who are writing in different areas of the mediterranean
Give the same names. Yeah, which they were all in rome at some point, right?
Like they were either from the roman church or they corresponded with someone in rome or they actually personally visited rome
like tertulian
kiprian
These kinds of guys right so
If you think that these that these communities were like networking and that they were connected
especially if you think that they were not very large which
I don't know like
Violate first century was probably the case that it's not difficult to explain this exchange of information, you know
So if someone came up with the names in rome in like 160 or something like that
It's not surprising that in the like eighth century or sixth century or something like that the same name shows up in
siriak
manuscripts
That's something you cut from the video that we did when I was commenting that
Testifies challenge was well
What if you had to do a story set in germany a hundred years ago?
And I had relatives who lived in germany a hundred years ago, but i've never been there
But if I was supposed to do that what all I would do is well
Let me think of all the stories of my grandpa's friends like because my grandpa told me lots of stories of what his friends and those
Are the names it would be easy to pick like it's it's
Yeah, not hard and we're not even talking a hundred years anymore. We're talking like 50 or 40. So right well
I think one thing that's very important to keep in mind though. I want people to avoid
thinking about this in terms of examples from like
Either
Contemporary examples or examples from recent history like I don't want people to evaluate it
I don't want people evaluating whether what we are saying like makes sense or is convincing
based on
What people know about name popularity today or something like that and this is like a general problem right like which is why
Yeah, we were talking about it before right so
This is something that happens and it's like a general problem
It should be it should be like a fallacy name like a fallacy of contemporary examples or something like that
So people are presented with some argument or some consideration about what was going on 2000 years ago
They construct an analogy an analogy
Which involves people who are alive today in the us in europe or something like that
Then and that that's like an intuition pump right so it
They form an opinion
Based on that contemporary example and then they project the conclusions back to antiquity
And it almost never works because the background information is different
So things that are plausibly the case today
The conclusions about them are not going to necessarily apply to antiquity
Even if the analogy is pretty close right and my worry is that if the article kind of
Starts conversations
Maybe in the apologetics community or in like evangelical christian community or something like that
It's going to devolve
into people
thinking about what's plausible about
knowledge of personal names and name popularity
today
In the us or in europe or in germany like 50 years ago or something like that
And people are then going to project those conclusions back to to antiquity
Right like it's super tempting to do because most laypeople don't have background information about what's plausible
2000 years ago
But don't don't do that right. It's not helpful
Yeah, that that happens from time to time
So
All right
Yeah, actually I think it's easier. Maybe if I shared my screen and that way I control it
Yeah, actually
actually, I think
I might want to go through this really quickly myself because those are still my slides, right?
Yeah, but I time wise I we're going to skip to slide 53. So I'm going to control it
All right. Cool. Cool. Are you sharing?
Yeah, Camille is not not and so he has to close out a thing and then and then I can go to my share screen
It's somewhat while you're doing that someone asked me, you know, where can we find the doublets by mcdonald
I did put the link up for the Homeric epics in the gospel of mark
You said another one of his sources and I can't remember which one that was
And then
Yeah, we said it in the in the article. So you'll just have to get the article
And and just so you know, I'm fairly confident his synopses of epic tragedy in the gospel covers
Like all I guarantee you he goes into some of the stuff for sure in that because he made sure it was like
his life's work all in one book and it's
Really affordable 20 30 dollar book. It's got
endless examples
All right
Brian are you there?
I wonder if it like bogged him down
Camille's here, yeah, I think it's he throws
He froze
Yeah, it is
Oh
So worst-case scenario if if if for some reason his computer isn't handling it. Are you able to share it for him?
Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Absolutely. So Brian, what happened there?
Yeah, so I went to I went to do the share screen and it decided okay
It's not gonna let me do it because it's it's it's just a it's setting me into a loop
Of uh of security stuff. So it'll probably kick me out again if I try
Uh, can you can you share yours again and then we'll just jump to other side even as the top screen?
Absolutely
Okay, I need to get the slides again
Uh to make sure next time to debug some of these things ahead of time, but that's all right
You see it. Oh, yep. I see it. All right. There we go. Okay jumped up 53, please
53 all right
There you go. Okay. Yeah, so um
So when
So Camille approached me about doing the kind of statistical analysis for this and and obviously the first part was was dealing with the data
I talked a lot about it. I just wanted to get a sense for the scale of it
So the entire database list is is is somewhere around 15 000 names
And then it gets cold down to about 2000 thousand names of which like around 400 are unique and only about 80 show up in the
Gospel so you can see immediately that with the entire data set
We bring it down to a rather rather small but not impossibly small list
And and and we'll come back to that of another time the other the next step that we did so next slide on 54
Is there were there are kind of standard methods for dealing with these sorts of problems when you're comparing distributions of of things
and so
I started with like the first things I thought of and these would be the things that
If someone hasn't looked at this this this project before they'd be like, oh, yeah
You know, did you try this test if you try that test and these are the ones that would come up?
So and so there's something called accumulative distribution which essentially just says like if you just you know rank order all the
all the things you're talking about and what is the cumulative distribution it starts up at zero goes to 100 percent and
and you um and you can you can often do a comparison and
um
the problem with this and it turned out um
And I never see examples of this in in stats textbooks is that the the data set we're dealing with here doesn't have a natural order
so like if you have something like
A population's heights the heights of the people or how much they weigh
There's a natural order from light to heavy from small to large, right?
So so so there's a natural order no matter what data set you're talking about
But when you're talking about names, there's no natural order
You could you could rank them possibly by popularity by each sublist the popularity of Josephus versus the entire data set versus
The gospels is going to be different
And if you change the order you change the cumulative distribution and any test that that's based off of the cumulative distribution breaks
So it doesn't it'll and and so I you know chase my tail for a little while
Looking at all these various tests and say oh, maybe this one will work. Maybe this one will work and and so we didn't
Um, you know, we're unable to do it
But but I want to put that out there saying like these are the things that we that we did
And why we landed on the methods methods that we do many of the the standard methods will not work on this on this data set
And um and some of the standard methods even if they did work don't deal with the uncertainties in the source
Uh distribution, uh, they only deal possibly the the uncertainties in the text that you're trying to uh
The subset that you're trying to compare to and so you can actually get misleading results in in that case
So, uh, essentially, what did we do? So that's the next slide
Yeah, so we imagine, um
That we have kind of large dice and each each face of the die is going to be labeled with a name
and the area of the of the name is going to scale with how, um
Uh popular that name is so essentially the side that uh has simon will will be larger than the the
Slide side that has some other rare name. Okay, so we just imagine we have this this die and this die would have about 400
You know over 400, uh different sides, um because there's over 400 different names
And then what we can do is we can say, okay the gospels have about 80 names
So we're going to simulate a gospel text by simply rolling this die that has the names
Writing out which ones come up and then and how often simon comes up and joseph and james and etc
Um, and and we roll it 80 times and we sound kind of look, okay
In if we had a text with 80 names that was drawn from the source material
How often, you know, then we can just do this like, you know, 500 000 times or
How very large number of times how often does simon actually come up?
How often does james actually come up and so we can come compare that?
um
and it's even more than that where
the
Even if we are kind of imagining this this die that we actually construct a whole bunch of different dice that
that um are that have
That are varied based on the uncertainty in our source material
So so if we take the kind of the full corpus that we're talking about and we say let's say there are
70 names out
out of
say
Oh, let's say let's say there's like a hundred names out of a thousand. So you have 10 right um
It could be 10 it could be 9.5 percent
It could be 10.5 percent
There's some uncertainty in that simply because we're estimating that fraction
From a finite quantity a hundred over a thousand the larger that sample is the smaller that uncertainty is
So we have uncertainty in the estimate of even the fraction of the name in the general population
And then we want to also, you know, simulate the uncertainty of taking subsets of that
Of like 80 names or whatever it is. So that's how that that's kind of how we you know are imagining
So i want to pause for it right there for you know any any question
They're going to walk through some of the math no not not not with equations, but mostly with pictures and tables
But uh, but I wanted to pause there if there's a question uh that you that you might have
I know camille knows this um paul. Did you have anything before we move forward?
No, I you know, I was just excited about uh
imagining the prospect of this dice
Okay, um
It's my one thing another thing I learned this week was a d 120 seems to be the uh, the most sides that you can that
Exist on a physical dice, which I think is what's uh displayed on the screen there
So anyway the physics part of it me I I'll I went on tangents when I was making this video. So that was a fun thing
cool
So uh next slide which will pause very shortly. This is a slide to scare everyone away, right? Um, so
I'm not going to go through it, but this is the point you can't argue with numbers. Yeah, exactly
Don't even try this this validates the atheist world view bingo, and that's the end of the discussion
Yep, it's me. It's been great guys. That's
Have a nice one
So I put this here
So that that there's actually some some uh, you know recently serious math
There's actually a link to a tutorial on some on some of this for for other systems
but but this
It actually has some theoretical justification for it, but but I I prefer pictures. So we want to go to the next slide
So this is uh example. This is from the the large source material and this is um,
essentially the fraction
Of each die taken up by the various names. So simon is about seven percent
But there's some uncertainty as you can see there's a width to it
So some of the dice that I might make for the general population have uh simon at about eight percent
So actually he's over to the right hand side
So way over on the dark blue one on the right hand side, right?
And then if you go one to the left that's the orange curb. That's joseph, right?
So that's a little bit less and then as you get less and less popular
Uh, you get you you you have both the kind of like the most common fraction but also the uncertainty
So this is this is from the source material and bachem never does anything like this
He just he literally just looks at the the the peak fraction and that's it
But if I given the the sample size of you know, about 400 some odd names
There is some uncertainty in how many simons actually were in the population that he's actually that that he's actually looking at
And so we want to make sure that that that uncertainty is is is taken care of
So if you go to the next slide, so this is kind of an example of of generating dice
So we make a table like this each row here
Is one is one die and it gives the
You know fraction of the names for each one
So the first die the 0th die there is has about 7.2 percent in simons and 6.6 percent josephs
And then the next one is just another one and you can see that the simons kind of are around 7 percent
but some are a little higher and some are a little lower because of the variation in the in the uh
The full the full data set and so we essentially generate many many of these die as we do
It would actually do like about a hundred thousand
um
And then from that we roll out
A a single uh like a single text like an 80 person text. So you go to the next slide
So from each die we actually roll out
um
Like 78 times so that's that it's close to 80
Each row is one simulated text
So one of the texts had seven simons five josephs two alazards and so on the the next one had seven simons nine josephs
and five alazards right because there's some uncertainty both because of the
Randomness of the process of having a small like you know 80
80 word text and also we are drawing fractions from a you know small ish, you know 400 uh name
Uh, that's pretty much what we do. We do this like 500 000 times
And then we and and then we can just count up how often does
You know simon come up and and does it how much how often does it come up one time and two times and three times?
and in a typical fashion what we'd like to do is say
Okay, 95 percent of the time it falls within like a certain range
And that's the range that we can kind of confidently, you know, know what what what they are
So that's what this this next one is so the black triangles kind of show that that 95 percent range of what we would expect to see
if uh, you know drawn from the source from from the source material and and pretty much
You know, so I mean one could look at this if you like
Oh, you know what this actually fits pretty well because the orange dots, which is what we actually have in the gospels and acts
Uh fit within that range
Uh, uh, and so you could say wow this this this fits pretty well
Which it does, you know, there's a few outliers jaco
Yeah, there's a bit more of that these are these are outliers basically
Some of them are not shown because that would get too crowded. Yeah, the table goes on for quite a long time
And so I'm only showing them the first part of it. Um, so
And so and so when you look at that and balkum himself would say this is you know, this show is really great agreement
The problem is that if you if you said, okay, you know, I'm just going to choose
names out of a hat
completely
On average basically you'll just get one
You know one of each kind of name, right? You know, so so that's it would just be like at the bottom
If you notice that the that the range drawn from the source material
Pretty much overlaps like if you had one of each name
You would still be completely consistent with it with with with that with that thing. So so so essentially
You know, we can say that that nearly any way of generating the names
Would pretty much given that we are dealing with only like 80 names or so
Will pretty much fall right within the the
These ranges just because they're they're so huge one might be able to make the the claim that may be simon
Because because the lower bound is that one but still that's that that's extremely weak
And so that's that's kind of the main thing now. It doesn't have to be this way
Okay, so if you go to the next slide, this shows the same thing for josephus, right?
So for josephus you can see that again
It seems to fit reasonably well
In the in the range the green dots are within the black and and the two black triangles on the on the on the different ranges along the way
You could have had, you know far fewer simons and it would have fallen out of that out of that range
And if you just juice things from a hat then
Clearly the first like top eight names or so would not fall in that in that area
and so what so what we're seeing here is like, you know, if we if if the
data set were larger it is potentially
one would potentially able to be able to distinguish between
the the different types of
Whether whether it got it fits with the the source material or it doesn't and so it's just the fact that pretty much you have a small
a small data set that you know, it's consistent with nearly with nearly anything and that I think is
Um
Is a is a problem
There may be yeah, yeah, you want to also show what happens when you change the prior. Yeah. Yeah. So one of the things about
This sorts of analysis is is that there's there's a kind of a prior probability that you have to put on each of that
Each of the names
For instance, if a name doesn't show up in the gospels, it doesn't mean that there's a zero percent chance that this name
Uh, would not
Uh, could not have appeared in the gospels, right?
So it just it just happened that it was that that it wasn't in there
A typical way to do this and kind of text analysis if you if you
Look at the systems that say filter email for spam and not spam
Uh, they there's generally a prior set on on what conscious as spam and what what counts is not spam
And you can do the same thing here and the effect is that that in the original analysis that that you
effectively just
Pretend as if every name at least occurs at least once so you don't get zeros coming coming in
Now that's a that's a very common prior for for the kind of text analysis that you might see
But it's not the only one and and one another one that's also somewhat common
Is what's called the jeffrey's prior and that has you know, not going to get into the technical
reason for this but but it has to deal with
Uh estimating proportions and sometimes they use use a uh a different kind of mathematical structure there
When you do that actually the the range is actually get wider
Uh, Jacob no longer is actually a uh an outlier. Um, my typical advice on
School analysis is if it depends on your prior a lot then, uh, then there's not enough data
But we've kind of already seen that there's not enough data anyway, uh, but that's generally the the case
But but here the pattern basically holds up regardless of whether you have a kind of conservative prior or one that's a little bit
a little bit narrower, um, and
And so our conclusions don't really change
But it's just to point out for anyone who who might be critiquing that that aspect of it
That we have that we have that so this is kind of been our approach and you can and you can do this kind of approach
Comparing other texts so kind of like we did with gospel and acts we can you can compare with with josephus
And you kind of look at what counts as an outlier what what doesn't I mean the data sets a little little messy
But the bottom line is that the number of names in the the gospels does not support any strong conclusion
about whether it matches or not the
Kind of source of names in ancient jewish palisthenes and that's kind of the main main thing
And the only argument you can make would only apply to maybe the top name simon and there are many good reasons why
Someone might know
You know simon at that everything else just falls in the noise and and essentially pulling out a look of randomly
Would give you the same, you know would be basically the same thing you'd be consistent with with the size of the data set
Can I rephrase this and get your answer on something for dum-dums like me?
short
And I have to take it down to earth for for viewers who might be similar to me who are like, whoa
There's a lot there and there's a lot you can do with that
Right, so are you ultimately saying based on all the math everything you've done with all the names checking different sources
Not just the gospels looking at this stuff depending on if you're conservative on how you're viewing these like you said
Or if you're more narrow in your views ultimately
We cannot walk away
Based on the criteria that's brought up by bachem and assume that this proves
Historicity
On these names and that this is somehow validating the claim of the more conservative approach of apologetics
instead
You know either direction
Based on this alone where we're at now
Either one is plausible is the point and we just don't have enough data to make concrete
Conclusions is that what we're pretty much? Yeah, that's pretty much right. I mean so so the you there is
And I think you know what's good
present a little bit
Later on the kind of the rare names there there is a you can't eke out a little bit that's against
You know bachem thesis a lot of this depends on how you think the
texts were
Generated and so depending on your model how they were generated it may it may make some some difference
Mostly on the outliers
But for the for the bulk of the data and everything that bachem looked at his numbers the the the counts are consistent with
The fractions that we see in the overall text, but it's also consistent with someone pulling
names randomly out of a hat because
Because it gives it they both fall within the same uncertainty range for the
Um
For the full corpus and that's and that's the you know basically the bottom line on on that so and then that's also why it's it's kind of
galling to see
language
In bachem that confidently says
You know there's like this is remarkably close and this couldn't have come in another way, right?
There's just no sense of you know the uncertainties are pretty high here
Maybe you might want to check them and then when you check them you're like it's pretty much in the noise
Except or maybe a couple names if that and those are easily accounted for it other way
So it's it's but so much of it. It's just in the noise. It's just in
Nothing nothing to see nothing nothing to see here
Yeah, okay
Cool, do we have any questions? Do you have any questions from the audience?
I'm sure we have I've got a few super chats, but they get into names. Are you done with the presentation?
Uh
No
Well, yeah, we have we have a lot
A lot more we have to kind of play play it by ear. I would say in terms of what we have
I think the bulk other than the kind of the the rare names things on the tail of the rare names other than that one
I think that's that's a primary result that kind of is a little bit against Malcolm
And that's most of I think the rest of what's what's there if I'm remembering, right?
I mean, there's a lot of places to go into it, but I think question I'm gonna be you know, I'm gonna have a hard
Uh deadline in in a short while
So I'm not gonna be able to do we want to cover
So do we want to cover the evidence of invention? So kind of the some of the things that
Are maybe go against his thesis
I was hoping you would I was hoping
So I like
I like we got this far because what I really want to just say to people who are viewing so far is that when you hear people
Argue using Richard Baccham's work
Just go ahead and send them this video and let them know like hey
You can't use this like you don't understand. It doesn't help what you think it is
It's not going to do what you think it's going to do in fact
I was hoping you would have
Some defeaters uh to his
ideas that help us to understand
Is there clear invention?
And I want to ask the question but leave it to the to the apologist and those who might be
swayed by their persuasion
If we see invention of any names
in these gospels and acts
If you are convinced once you see some of this
You should ask yourself are there any other
Could it be more
What are they doing if there's any invention even a single one invention?
Why why would the author make that up or invent this character for a narrative?
And if that is the case, it's kind of like mcdonald's thesis
This is not i'm not trying to argue that his whole thesis is the case on mimesis
To homer and the odyssey and the iliad and such well
He doesn't do the iliad so much even though he does see some comparison
But he says like once you see the camel's head
Right, he thinks that there's more there
um
Even if it's like cultural motifs and things so that's more like litwah
But anyway, I just I hope people will ask that question as we're thinking of these names
And if they are invented, what's that due to the historicity argument here trying to say this is history and what actually happened?
anyway
Okay, so let's just flow through that. That's the last section of the presentation. So, um
Basically what we find out is that the sample size is not great
Which means like a lot of the very strong conclusions in the chapter are actually not supported
And what's what's really spicy about this is that
given even given that
When you gather the data
And you use the appropriately robust statistical analysis
There are some things which are like sauce, right?
What I mean specifically is rare names. So rare names are defined
And this is how Wokam defines them is your those are just names that are only ever known to have a one user, right?
Uh, there are four in gospels and acts in the contested sample
How likely is it that there would only be four given how often?
First century Jews in Palestine had rare name
Well, it turns out
It's very very unlikely, right? So this is the distribution of if you
Do these like dice rolls? How many
Named characters with rare name you would get
So the most likely the most probable outcome is that you would expect to see in the gospels and acts sample
About 10 rare names, right? So in the chart in this distribution, that's the tallest
Column, right?
So this is the number of names that you would expect to see and this is the percentage of how likely that outcome is
If Wokam was basically correct, right? So if Wokam is correct, you would see about 10 names
Now getting less or getting more gets progressively less likely, right?
So these bars are getting smaller and smaller and the percentages are basically lower and lower
And four is the number that we actually observe in gospels and acts. So what what's marked in black is what we get or less
Not very likely, right? Could be a random chance
but
Interesting
Conversely, some of the most popular names in the contested sample are actually over represented
So this shows Simon
And again, this is the number of simons
And this is how likely you are expected or how probable it is that you would get a given number of simons
When you roll these dice, right that are like weighted to correspond so that the size of the side
Or how likely it is that a given name would show up is like weighted proportional to how the how popular your name was
Intercontemporary Palestinian Jewish population, right?
So for the name Simon, you would expect like the most probable outcome is about three
So in like when you roll these dice many many times in about 20 percent of the cases or the simulations
You get three simons and again, it gets small if you get either more or less
It gets proportionally small or larger
But the problem is that in gospels and acts we have eight simons
Which is actually a lot, right?
So the bars in black show the actual observed number or more
So again, not very likely
And what's shown here the white bars
This is the range of values that is consistent
with
Randomly picking all the names in gospels and acts out of a hat
With absolutely no information about name popularity whatsoever
So if every single contested character in gospels and acts was invented
By in Antarctica by people who had no idea
About like how popular Palestinian Jewish names are
You would get either zero simons or you would get like at most one
The probability that you would get two is like very very small, right?
This is because you have a lot of names to choose from and you have only a relatively small data set
So, you know, like
At most you would get one. It's unlikely that you would get more
So if you notice this outcome so zero or one is not very likely, you know
Like if you add these two bars together, the percentage is very small
But the actual number is even smaller, right? Like the probability for the actual number is even smaller
so
The most extreme
negation of will comes hypothesis
The situation in which every contested
Gospels and aims character is
Invented by people who had absolutely no idea how
People are like Palestinian Jews are named that outcome is less likely than what we actually observe in gospels and acts because we observe the
opposite extreme
but
That opposite extreme is less likely than just everyone being invented
and
This is true, but to a less degree with
James and with joseph
so
Three out of the five most popular names in gospels and acts are over represented
And the rare names are under represented
The one million dollar question is what explains that?
Because if bokeh is correct
Or basically what bokeh imagines doesn't offer an explanation
Right because if everyone is historical, this would just have to happen by random chance
Which is not impossible, but it sounds very likely
So his thesis like can't offer an explanation
Would have to be random
But I can come up with an explanation and it's this
The reason why the most popular names are over represented and rare names are under represented is precisely because what I was
Saying the whole time
People who invented the names were more likely to know the popular names
Than the rare names
So it's not surprising that in the sample of the contested characters
That might have some invented characters in them
You would get over representation of the most well known names and under representation of the least known names
That's exactly what you would expect right and that's what we found in the data
If I may just just I think this is really good what you guys are doing here
And I want to ask maybe paul can comment on this but like this is
purely name
Counting in the source materials and trying to see how that works. This is not even factoring in
The narrative the context of what we're reading how it looks like literature and I mean literary not literal history
Like all of that is irrelevant and we haven't even got there yet. That's
Yeah, yeah
One other thing that you can one other thing that like if I was I was actually trying to think
If I was a christian apologies like what would I do with this right?
And you can so you can always basically do the morian shift right so you can you can
You know like one one philosopher's modus ponens is another philosopher's modus tolerance, right?
So I would say okay. We have too many simons, which means we need to redo
The process of identifying who is who in the new testament, right?
So what I basically need to do as a christian apologies is to get the number of simons down
So I need to say okay, some of the people that I thought are two different people are actually the same
and
The same with some other names, right? But the problem is that
this is going to get
This is going to probably be inconsistent with
The contents of the narratives right like there are boundaries
When it comes to who can be identical with who in gospels and acts, right?
Like some people just can't be the same person because the the narrative like what what is said about them in the text is
Doesn't permit that
so
I think like christian apologies insist that
You know, there are no contradictions and everything happened more or less the way how it's reported
They already have a lot of work they need to do
In harmonizing all of these narratives
And this is another thing that they need to keep in mind as well, right?
that like
If you
Harmonize the gospels the way that you do and you get too many simons that this this is an issue
You need to conflate some of them together
But it maybe I don't know. I haven't actually done the work. This isn't actually impossible
This isn't actually possible because you would need to conflate people that clearly in the text are meant to be two separate
Versons with with the same name, right?
I don't know like this is the best that I can I have to for and it doesn't of course
Fix the under-representation of rare names. You just can't do anything. Yeah, well, that's that's actually I think I think the rare names
part is actually more persuasive because
uh, and I'm kind of in some ways reminded of
if you are
You know
If you compare and say say two two two students have taken an exam and they both have very similar correct answers
um
That's not really great evidence for
collusion
But if they have very similar
strange mistakes
That is evidence for collusion. So if you want to say that the
People had to be there to get the names right
Then much better evidence would be having the rare names correct in this distribution
Rather than the popular names because everyone's going to get that right
And and so in that in that sense, I find that the the under-representation of rare names is is
is much more damning for
Saying that this is not invention because those are exactly the names that that you wouldn't have
If you were away from the area and were inventing names
You would have more likely the popular names and you'd over-represent them because you have them, right? You know, that's the
and and so that's
That's why I find that the rare names part is really the part where you're like, okay
You know, it's just really it's just we can really did match what was historically there
Then you'd expect it to match here of all places and this is where it doesn't
Yeah, yeah, well said like I wasn't I wasn't like really surprised when we found out that this is the case, right because like
Come on. Again. Have you read the gospels?
See, that's the point I was getting at when I was saying you're dealing with names. That's
That's all cool. We haven't even made it to like how are what what do they look like what's happening in these texts?
And that's a whole different that's a different question as you guys both said early on in this presentation
But I think that just adds more icing to the cake. So
But yeah, continue. We have questions. We'll get at the end for the viewers
So feel free to chat your questions. I have two more slides and we are done
So the last thing that I want to mention is actually this is something that hasn't been published yet
because we just ended up with too much content for one article so I'm
Just decided to to to to split it and do do to
So, okay, you are watching this
You don't really get it
But your immediate thought is cameo
The easiest way how to test what bockham is saying is just like get some different ancient texts
other than gospels and acts other than the bible, right and
See how well the name distribution lines up
because if bockham is correct
And you take a different literary work that has a lot of invented characters in it
The distributions shouldn't line up, right? So can't you test can't you test it this way?
That's like the most straightforward
That's the thing that you would think of right away, right?
So why do you have to do these weird like dice rolls and you have to imagine like 400 sided dice
And each like side is a different
Hey, don't pass my work there cameo. Come on
No, it's just like
Trying to trying to keep it basic, right?
So what like let's let's just take some different texts from the ancient world
We have a lot of them
And let's just take texts that have a lot of invented people in them
And let's just compare the the percentages and compare the distributions, right?
Like if bockham is correct
Gospels and acts should be super like nice and everything else that has a lot of fictional characters in it should be kind of trash
Right, so this is what we did as well
this is actually something that
One other guy in 2014 tried to do
He took the proto-evangillian of james or the the infancy gospel of james and he looked at
name personal names of people who are invented in that
Literally work right because it takes place around jesus'
birth and around in his
Early life and they there are some named characters that show up that are invented because like nobody thinks the proto-evangillian of james has like
historically reliable information
But it's it's a good and comparison because the people there that are invented are
People who fit all of the criteria for bockham's selection
So they are first century they are contemporary with jesus, obviously
They are jews and they are from polis time
The problem with that research and this is something that bockham criticized is that the that sample size is very very small
I think there is like eight people that are like that
Which means you can't really do anything with it right like you can't okay the names that are selected
Our names that palestinian jews actually had and they are not like super popular names
But they are not super rare names either
And what we basically did is we built on that research and we improved it
And the key insight is that in order to get larger samples
That have sample sizes similar to the sample size of the gospels annex name is to combine multiple
extrabiblical texts together
To create like a textual corpus
So we basically took the canon of the canonical gospels annex and we created a different canon
That has a different composition of different works so that
The whole package has a lot of named first century palestinian jewish characters in it
It's it's not a very easy thing to do because if you think about it
A lot of the extrabiblical christian apocryphal literature
Is either fragmentary so gospel of peter we have like one page right?
It has some personal names in it, but we are missing like i don't know
So
A large percentage of the gospel so we can't use that for comparison
Some of the early christian apocryphal literature is not narrative
It's just sayings like gospel of themas so it doesn't have almost any personal names in it
And most importantly a lot of the early christian apocrypha takes place outside of palestine
Because it's like acts of apostles or martyrdoms and stuff like that that takes takes place as christianity spreads
Elsewhere in the world like acts of tomas takes place in in
India, right?
So you're not going to have a lot of palestinian jewish personal names, but we actually managed to find some
apocryphal works that have a lot of first century palestinian jews
specifically we constructed
A let's say alternative canon to the biblical canon that consists of three works
Clementine homilies, which is like an early christian novel
The earliest recension is the second century i think and it names some companions of peter and they are palestinian jews
The second is acts of pilot
Which has a lot of personal names actually because it's written to give an impression that it's like a court proceeding or court recording
Or court transcript so it names a lot of witnesses to various events in jesus's life
So for example, this is i think where the names of the crucified criminals come from in the gospels
They don't are don't have any names, but here they are given names
Or for example
You have recorded names of the shepherds that were attending jesus's
birth in the gospel flute who are also not named in kuk
And everyone understands that these people are either these people or these names are are invented
And the third source is a historical work by slow-moan of bossa. It's called the book of the bee
It's a it's a weird name for a historical book, but i think it's an allusion to like the old testament or something like that
But what's important is he's a he's very late
historian he's from the 13th century
but his uh
historical work actually
compiles
A lot of different traditions about names of first century disciples of jesus and other people, right?
So even though he's very late. He's like a really good source to use
And then we actually realized that hey, there is another
body of ancient texts that has a lot of named first century palestinian jewish characters in it and as a talmud, right?
Because you know like a lot of the rabbis and their disciples and stuff like that
are
From the first century and they are from palestine and their jewish obviously and it
Seems that the Babylonian Talmud is better to use than the Jerusalem Talmud because it's bigger
So it's got more names in it. It's also later
Which actually works better because you would think that
The more you get removed kind of in time from the first century
The less well the distribution of popular names in that body of work should line up, right?
Because over time people would lose kind of the notion of which names were popular in the first century
So they would be more likely to get it wrong
And you can see the sample sizes. So in gospels and acts we have 53 contested characters, which means
53 contested name occurrences, which means those are the names of people who are not externally attested
In the christian apocrypha canon, we have 80 contested characters and 52 are fictitious
So here in this corpus
Almost everyone is fictitious
So almost none of the people who are first century panestinian jews who are mentioned in these three apocrypha works actually existed
Some of them did like some of the characters who are named in gospels and acts, for example
Some of them who are not named in gospels and acts
But almost everyone is fictitious
And in the babelian talmud and i didn't know about that before you actually had have quite a lot of
Fictional name fictional people fictional names as well. Or at least like those are people who
Rabbinic scholars and scholars who like to take the talmud critically think probably didn't exist
If you if you go ask an orthodox rabbi
You might get a different answer, but we are just
Taking the the critical scholarship position
so if bokam is correct
The distribution of name popularity in gospels and acts should look very different from
Oh, you're muted again
It's the demons
There you go, I think
There you go, am I supposed to speak in tongues? Okay. Well, you're not doing it. So it takes
Yeah, so so just to reiterate like if bokam is correct, there should be some noticeable difference here, right like the
Names the sample of names from gospels and acts should look noticeably different
Because it's the only
supposedly
The only textual corpus that doesn't have very many invented characters in it
The other two textual corpora should be out of whack much more than gospels and acts
Especially the apocrypha because out of the 80 contested characters 52 are actually fictitious, right?
So if bokam is correct, their name distribution should be like all over the place because
A lot of those characters were invented and they were invented
Who knows where some of them might have been invented in palestine
Some of them might have been invented in the last pura
Some of them might have been invented like hundreds of years after the first century
Especially some of the people that are mentioned in the book of the beat
Same with papillonian tomb, right?
So what i'm going to do now, and this is what i did in the apology video
I'm going to show you three charts
They show the same information
One of them is gospels and acts and the other two are going to be the two other textual corpora
I'm going to
Anonymize them and your job is to tell me which one is gospels and acts because remember if bokam is correct
and if gospels and acts doesn't have very many invented characters in it
And if this is a good methodology how to discover
The presence of invented characters one of these three charts should be noticeably different
So let's do it
Can you tell me which one is gospels and acts?
Are there like I are they like radically different
And let me just get this straight the the diamond at the upper end is how much it's represented, correct?
Yes, okay. That's a good point. So the the diamonds are the actual number of
How many people have the given name in the given textual corpus?
And so for example here
Like in this corpus, which might be gospels, but maybe not
There is this many simons, right?
I took the the actual like axis out because if I kept it in it would be too easy to guess which one is gospels and acts
Well, just to be fair that bar. Is it the same number across all three graphs? No
No, okay
Yeah, that makes it even more difficult
Even more difficult, but but the names are the same. Okay. The names are the same
And the obviously the vertical error bar that's in our defined 95 percent interval of expected values
On bokam's hypothesis
So you can see that this guy is for example, joe in one of the three corpora joseph is over represent under represented
Because it's it's uh, there's too too few people named joseph here. James is over represented
This one is nice, right? Is this one doesn't have any
Mr. Like over or under representation at least here
uh
So I don't know like do we want to take a bet or do we want to let the audience
Should I put it should I put a toll like a one two three question and answer to yeah, yeah, we can do that
Okay, so i'm gonna like
Yeah, go ahead. Hopefully you you see the point right that there isn't any detectable difference, right?
like
I'm not saying that there are invented characters in gospels and acts
But if there are just like there are in the apocryphal works and in the bulb Talmud
If you wouldn't be able to discover this using using the methodology given how limited the data is
That's the that's the takeaway. Uh, that's a key takeaway, right? So
Other other word how to uh another way how to think about it is like imagine
We are living in a parallel universe
But everything is the same but christians in their new testament don't have the canonical gospels
But instead they have some apocryphal works that also have a lot of named characters in them and in that parallel universe
People are arguing about whether some of those characters are invented or not
Like for example, there is a gospel that actually gives names to the uh shepherds
In the gospel of luke, but those names are invented and in that parallel universe
There is richard bockham who's probably having like a goatee
And he published the same book
Exactly the same methodology
Similar data just with completely different apocryphal works that have invented characters in them
Right and the point is you wouldn't know that you are living in that universe except for
And not in this one because the methodology just like doesn't show you the difference, right?
Almost done
sorry
Well the goatees
Give it away because if you're gonna go to you're in the bad universe, so
Am I am I from the bad universe? I just started the poll
Let's get some votes in and we'll come back to to seeing how many people vote. So you have a number
Uh, and it'll tell me how many people actually, you know, participated in percentages of the vote. So
We're we're gonna we have brian here to help us out if we need him
And they never did tell me
They never did even I made I had to make the video blind just knowing just assuming
Go ahead
Yeah, yeah, that's a good point
Well, I should if we do that I will have to actually reveal that right and I promised I won't until the second article is
You can wait till the article's done. I think we're fine
okay
so let's let's let's
let's um
Wait for people to vote and maybe do some projects or something like that
Okay
All right
Are you are you so are you wanting to do supers now?
Uh, yeah, okay. I know sorry. I'm sitting. I think we
Okay, let me drop this then so are we are we done with the uh
We just muted again. Oh we lost
Okay
So vote now the poll is up
I already have 32 votes
Chart 1 19 percent chart 2 16 percent chart 3 66. Most people are going with chart 3
um, okay, uh, let's go to supers I guess
Oh, brian's gonna have to leave here soon
Yeah, yeah, unfortunately. Okay. Well, let's try and get what we can and then once you bounce bounce
Um, bro. Joe says awesome job job guys keep up the great work. Thank you so much for the support. Appreciate the super chat
Bro, Joe again. Who is joseph of era mafia origin influence?
He's asking camille and then brian
I would imagine. Um, I'm sure that camille has a an opinion on this
Hmm
Yeah, I'm not sure. This is this is one of the the questions that I would have to
Uh spend like a year reading only on this so that I can form an opinion, right? Because like
Is it possible that he is he's a strictly person?
It's not not super unlikely, right? Like do do I think that he actually buried jesus and stuff like that probably not, right?
Or at least there's no way to tell
but
I don't know
Well, I've been researching him for my paper and uh
and there's definitely
As you look at the stories that line up about joseph era mafia
The legendary development is crazy. So I don't doubt that it's necessarily there was someone on the sanhedrin who
You know was named joseph
But even if you just go through the gospels and do this do the thing where you line up what the stories are about them
Like it gets more and more elaborate until eventually, you know, he's
Conversing with indiana jones. So
He doesn't he get like
He gets like broken out of prison by an angel or something like that in some of the
He goes and he plants gardens in england that are still alive. I guess it's a whole thing
Yeah, yeah, he collabs with uh nicodemus in in other situations as well. So like
Later and and I think it's amazing to see that development
um
I think denis mcdonald has the thought that
The name era mathea and he's not the only one who has this idea
It means best disciple town or something even bart airman said this and he you know bart
Tends to like try to be more on the lean toward
Maybe there's a historical memory. He has that kind of model and uh
They're like, uh, it's kind of coincidental that this sanhedrin just so happens to be from the best disciple town
Uh, you know
Yeah, this is this is something that would be maybe interesting to ask an actual like philologist, right?
Because it's it's actually very with these with these kinds of things is very debatable like you can
uh
You can take the word
You can break it into the three components and you can say look like arie means the best like like in aristan and stuff like that
Then you have math at that's that's the middle part and you have the suffix that is like a
Topo name, right?
But actually
You know like a trained philologian would be able to explain to you
Maybe why this isn't probably where the the origin of that name comes from, right?
Maybe you would also need to do ask someone who does uh aramaic
Because it might be better explained as as an like a greek version of some aramaic word
But I don't know like this is this is one of the things that I would have to like read up on
that being said, um
Uh, what what what was it? I didn't want it to say, uh
No, I don't remember. Anyway, let's move on. Okay
Doc pluroma not what was the distribution of the name junius after the disciple was mask
masculinized
I don't know junius, uh, I would think extremely rare
Yeah, I would have to check
Uh, but I think yeah, that's uh, it's not
The male version of the name is not attested. So it like literally didn't exist as a name in antiquity
and
it's showing up in the
Ancient literature is
Is just a product of masculinization of a feminine name because of the logical reasons if if I'm not mistaken, right?
Hmm
Yeah, okay
Moving on
Um, oh, I remember what I wanted to say. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah
What what one thing that's really interesting about joseph of arimathea is
Why is it the case that he isn't like in book of acts?
What why is it the case that he isn't a church leader?
Because if you think about it like he was wealthy. He was well connected
he would make a really good candidate for a
Like a leader in the early church, right?
um, or at least a sponsor like someone who financed the
The early church, right?
Uh, which means that either he's invented or like the events are not historically reliable at all or he died
Right, maybe he got too scared
Didn't get the Holy Spirit, but that's that's something interesting to think about
Thank you for that
Mg bilby
I believe that's mark bilby about the Pauline letters two divergent data sets marcianite and canonical should be considered
See the intro of my translation of vincent's apostolos at zinodo paul's literary metamorphosis
Cool, that's yeah, I don't know anything about that that that's something that I would have to look into
Okay
Mark, thank you for the super chat. I appreciate the support
JC says why are the roots joseph
Ephraim and Yeshua present in the cuneiform
words for crocus
This seems I don't know more like a philological azuz related healing salvation pyru's the root of Ephraim
I have no idea
Sorry JC above my head JC
Um, thank you for the super chat though. I really appreciate the support
The six peddled saffron crocus that grew in Bethlehem. Ephrata is the source of the star david
It's rosetta is the on the taupeate osuaries of chiapas and Yeshua's son of joseph
Cool, I've never heard of this
But thank you so much for the super chat really appreciate that. I don't think anybody hears
um acquainted with this
Grace 174 what is the best think you can say about bacham's work?
So best thing you can say about bacham's work. No backhanded compliments
Sure
So I I I think that he's 100 correct when he says that the gospel of matthew wasn't written by matthew
That's that's top kick
Sorry say that again. I'm sorry. No, I
Oh, you mute it again. Damn it
I don't know what's happened in the humble god. She might help me out paul. I can't be the only one speaking in tongue
No, I I just
I I think bacham is correct when he says that the gospel of matthew wasn't written by matthew
Uh, so that's one thing and even in the article we actually give some like an example of something that we agree with right like, um
There is this the the the famous like feature of the gospel of mark where when sam of Sayuri is introduced
He's introduced with the names of his sons
Which was first
Unusual for people to be introduced in the ancient world
Usually when you want to introduce someone you introduce him by or them by the name of their father, right?
And also it's redundant because simon is already identified
By being a samaritan by being sirenian, right? So it's kind of glonastic
so what explains that and bacham of course things that this is because
rufus and alexander where eyewitnesses or they like
They um reported his eyewitness testimony or something like that
I'm completely okay with thinking that the author of the gospel of mark thought that his original audience
would know
alexander and rufus or at least know of them like he he would know he um expected that they would know who these people are
Doesn't explain mark or it's like not not much flows from that, right?
It could be the case that he actually really carried jesus's cross because that's not super implausible, right?
It could be the case that he just told the story about how he did that, but it wasn't actually true
It could be the case that sam alexander and rufus were telling the story, but it didn't actually happen
So they just invented the story about how it was our dad who carried jesus's cross or something like that
right
But I don't have any problem with thinking that yeah like mark's audience
new of those guys and that's why
He names them in this particular way in the gospel. There are other
Explanations like some people suggested that those might be the names of the patrons who paid for the gospel of mark to be produced
uh, some other explanation is that
I've heard that there's other alexander and rufus like
I've heard that who was it. I think it was christie who mentioned this
something to do with uh, you know not dying on the hill, but that there was
other author
elite or
Educated author who's named this or something in the first. Yeah, I think I think I know what you're talking about
Yeah, it it might be possible that they were for example like church leaders in the early church
And this was a way for them to get like recognition
Or like some some kind of claim of or authority because there is a person named rufus who is mentioned in the elated romans
And there is debate whether he's the same person as uh rufus in uh mark or whether it's just two people who had the same name
All right, we will never know
This is one of the things that will never be answered probably
But you know like this is so this is something that wokam says I don't have any problem with that
Yeah, I would be probably able to think of of some other things. He for example says that like
There's this famous fragment of papers where papers suppose or it's it's quoted right
So ucps says that papers says that he heard from the companions of the
apostles
from the companions of the disciples and then he
splits them into two
groups of people
jesus's apostles
Who include like met you andrew and some other people and then jesus's disciples?
Which is john and arrest on?
And what's really interesting is in that fragment the way how ucps quotes it he uses our wrist
which means a
a
Worm form which is used to talk about the past
When he is talking about jesus's apostles
But he uses the present
When he is talking about the other two disciples john and arrest on and wokam says
Well, this means that the apostles were already dead
But the two disciples john and arrest on were still alive
So basically if you translate it into english, he says what the apostles were saying
or said
And what the disciples are saying right now why are while i'm still alive
And from that he says well papers didn't actually live in like 130s or something like that. He wasn't contemporary with
Some other early christian authors, which is usually taken to be the case. He actually lived much earlier in like 80s
That might be true like this is something that i maybe want to look into because i know that in greek
Whether you use the present stem or the artist doesn't necessarily have to do with
Temporality it might have some other like communicative functions
And also the problem is that we don't actually have papers's work. We only have the fragment quoted by ucps
So maybe something got mangled in the reproduction of the text, right?
Or it's it's a paraphrase or something like that
But i would buy personally like i can imagine being convinced that yeah, actually papers was alive in 80s
At not in like 130s when there were still jesus's disciples alive. We're like talking to people passing information and stuff like that
That's nice. Okay. Yeah
Thank you. Thank you paul. Do you have any questions for camille or anything you want to bring up because you've been
Such a gentleman hanging out with us and well, i've just i've been absorbing
As with even this is my video. I am just a pleasure
I have the pleasure of being a front row student in all of this but
No, i don't nothing new to add there that was that was yeah, it's great
Well, i'd like to bring something to camille to your attention to get your thoughts you you you created a canon to try and compare the names
um
And and i guess like
I already can hint that where you're going to go with this
Even if i don't know who whose graph is what?
um
And by the way, i might as well in that toll just just because people who aren't watching or just now tuning in
I think we gave it away unfortunately with some of the information that we
Showed uh before right so yeah, it's the it's the third one
But if you if if you didn't watch the the the the presentation from the beginning you wouldn't be able to guess, right?
Well, I just did it and so the it shows uh chart three
58 percent chart one 23 percent chart two 18 percent
But um, I don't want to get lost in the weeds on that because I know that you're you're going to have the publication
That's going to dive deep into this
But I feel like there's overlap in how you could approach this kind of material with names
the same way the undesigned coincidence conversations we've had about
Looking at other materials
I feel like it's a little different though because the corpus we have
In the new testament
We'd have to find another corpus
that has
three other dependent
Definitely two other dependent works on that earlier material that we can actually see and go okay, hold on
This is a fair analogous
situation in comparing
mark matthew luke john
And then of course axe and other material
But in in some way, would you say this work overlaps what we're trying to do by using other materials?
Yeah, I mean like a lot of this stuff is um
Oh, you're muted again
Look at it hex the devil over here. I hate this satan get out of here satan
Leave
Yeah, there you go
Yeah, like what's often the case is that
Uh, there isn't enough comparison done on these kinds of hypotheses with other ancient texts, right? Like for example
polkaam
One of the other
Arguments that he makes in the book that has to do with written names is that he notices that in gospels
People are often given a personal name
Even though it doesn't like them being named in the text doesn't serve any function
So normally when you're writing a story
And you have a character and you're deciding whether you are going to name the character or not
You give them a name if it helps
The reader or the audience kind of orient themselves in the in the narrative, right?
So if the person shows up often you are more likely to name them because
That's like useful for orientation, right?
If you had a large number of characters who are doing things interacting, but they are all
Unnamed that would get confusing, right?
But then you have texts like the gospels where people often are named
For no apparent reason like it doesn't serve any function. And this is true about gospels and acts
but it's much more rare in
recognizable fictional ancient works like in novels
It's much less often the case that people are given a personal name
For no obvious reason where it doesn't like fulfill any function in the narrative
Where you do see people
Be given a personal name for no apparent reason are like historiographical works, right?
Uh-oh muted again
I think it's a power to your mic that does that but go ahead
Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, so like you you'll see this much more often in ancient bible
Uh-oh
Nope something's up. We can't hear you
Uh-oh
We need everybody in the chat to start fighting the demons
Please start praying speaking tongues for us. We got to see those tongues texts. I need to hear it
Come on people
So one of the things this sparks in my in me is like what are the other
I need to start thinking about in cataloging. What are some of the other quantitative?
things that apologists go out there and say
and it would be just great
Uh masters or phd fought or just to try and even recreate the numbers that are used just like these guys were doing
They're just the first step was well, can we even recreate these numbers?
And and even there like if it turns out you can't well then apologists have stopped doing it
but
We still have apologists claiming to run white from the arc of the covenant. So
So they were already they were already claiming that in the fourth century
Oh, okay
Cool. So so, um, can you hear me now? Yes. Yes. Yeah
So so what I wanted to say is like not enough comparisons are made with other ancient literature often, right? So
What why is it the case that in the gospels you have so many people who are given personal name?
Even though it doesn't function doesn't sort of any function in the text
Oh my gosh, this is the same spot. It did this last time something about the words
He's saying that it's gotta be satan. He knows or as we have a few years
Angels, yeah, Richard Bacchum is blocking his wi-fi from a van outside
That makes a lot of sense. That's
That's more that's believable actually
Although the tech the it and these is
I'll try using my
phones data
Maybe that's gonna work better
You think it's the internet. I think it's no, I think it's just because but your picture your your visuals were always perfect
Yeah, everything was fine. It was just the mic who goes silent
I think it was his power getting to his mic and street art does that. Yeah the phantom power part. Yeah. Yeah, it's weird
All right
This is getting good and juicy. Oh, listen to myself
I
In in echo
You the man
I'm worried here that Camila is gonna tell us that this is evidence that the
Gospels
are not
fictional
I knew you were gonna I knew you were gonna say this
I knew it because now he's saying that in fiction
Only in only in a real book. Do you randomly throw in the names of people that are inconsequential?
That's true. That is that is true
I I think I love what he's doing and that he took the time
to do this
gosh
There's he also we've talked about this in private about potentially figuring out a way to put him
a project together where he's going into other works that could be
Kind of going into the undesigned thing again, but we're dealing with clearly fiction
and
You know having a really good analysis that does this that just breaks down
Over and over everything that keeps getting brought up by apologetics just gets toppled over when you scrutinize and critically analyze this stuff
so
The other chart i'm definitely going to dig into is that actually his chart of uh, which books have been most cited
Because that's
In and of its own. Yes. Yes, you
Uh, how is that?
Not as good, but yeah deal with it. We'll handle it
Okay. Yeah, I would need to probably leave and reconnect because for some reason my headphones are not picking up the
The the sound okay, but if you're good, we are fine
I think we can deal with it as long as you can handle it
Yeah, I can I can handle it no problem
Yeah, um
So what we were talking about, um, yeah, so undesigned coincidences, right? So here's the thing, right?
So I would be able to write a book that would just
Basically get rid of the apologetic forever
I have to pay the best research project for it that you can probably
Like think of right because what you need to do is basically what we did with the names
You find some ancient works that are clearly fictional and you just look for undesigned coincidences
Uh, so let let's look at like metamorphic literature, right? So literature that this
Is basically about greek and roman mates and you need to find texts that are reasonably long
So they have like a comparable length to gospels and acts
uh, they
Talk about the same events. So you can actually have these interlocking
coincidences, right and
If they are like
dependent or
The people who wrote them knew about each other or they had some traditions and stuff like that that would be great
and it actually exists and those texts are greek place
specifically tragedies that deal with the same, uh, myths like elektra
or uh, oedipus, anticonia and so on because in some cases in those cases we have
Euripides and so forth class or like euripides and icecules
Talking more or less about the same events
Around the same time around the same characters and stuff like that
So all I need to do is basically sit down
Go through these
Texts and find all of the different undesigned coincidences and that's going to be a lot of them like dozens
And the reason why is there is going to be a lot of them is because the way how the methodology is set up
by the DMG group is that every time you have
Some information that's found in one text, but not in the other that comes like as undesigned coincidence, right?
And there is going to be a lot of it in these tragedies because
They there is a lot of big ground knowledge that the authors assume the audience is going to have and they don't have to explicitly spell it out
So they will make allusions to like, oh this king ruled here or
This is like some different character. This did something else in a different myth and stuff like that
That's just going to create massive amounts of undesigned coincidences if you apply the same methodology consistently
The only problem is is that
In the next like five years, I have zero time to work on this
so yeah
If someone wants to give me like five thousand dollars
Then I will just postpone my phd for like a year or two and I will just write the book
Unfortunately, aren't that go fund me Derek? I know I thought about that too, but I also
You know, I know a lot
Maybe we could put something together
But I also feel like it might be good that you get your phd get it over with
And then and then here you are, you know tackling you you can get endless projects. You know what I mean?
2027 is the year where I already promised James Fodor that we are going to write a book about the resurrection together
When we both have like phds, right?
So I'm probably booked for for more than four years now
So, all right. Well, so then if any other research students phd students are looking for a project
Yeah, I'm telling you like my experience is if I postpone something long enough someone else is going to look into it, right?
So already, uh, dr. Jeffrey drip
Reviewed the book
Excellent stream, right? And also james mcgrath is apparently working on infancy narratives of john the baptist in the apocryphal works
And he's using a framework which is pretty similar to undesigned coincidences
And what's really spicy about it is that yeah, he's finding in these apocryphal works
Things that look like undesigned coincidences in gospels
But of course, he doesn't from that conclude that odis must be strictly reliable, right? No, he just concludes what everyone else does
Maybe these things are interdependent
And that's why why like one text mentions one detail
Another text mentions a different detail and if you put it together you get like a more complete story
Just literally dependents or like shared traditions people telling the same stories and stuff like that
I think that's it's so interesting to see
Um, it's a complicated thing to deal with like to get into as like regular people are not going to dive into this names
That's why even scholars like them, you know
They're they're not doing what you just did with bacham's name stuff and how this does not help eyewitness at all
In fact, I want to ask you just a little deeper on this
Why did why would you jump to a conclusion that something is eyewitness?
There's other explanations that could be even before you jumped all the way to eyewitness
You see what i'm trying to get at like even if you grant
Some of his like this somehow peruse historical
Why can't this just be hey?
This is a story that was already being told around or hey, we have a oral tradition that goes back
Why do they have to make the strongest possible conclusion?
Because even bart airman thinks there's memory
Right, that's not eyewitness, but that there's memory of of traditions floating around
I think everyone including the most literary types like robin faith walsh and others will say hey
There are stories floating around no doubt about it
That's in fact why they created this literature to begin with it was a popular story and they wanted to narrate it
I don't know why they would jump to that unless there's some other motivations
Yeah, yeah, this is this is something that i was talking about earlier right so
It's really interesting in your school's an act you get a lot of people who are given a personal name for no apparent reason
Like it doesn't serve any function. You don't see it in ancient novels
But you do do see it in ancient like histories and biographies, right?
But so that's interesting. That's actually like a
That's actually a really relevant and interesting observation because you can legitimately ask the question
Okay, why is in this respect? Why are the cost more similar to histories compared to ancient novels?
Where vocab loses me is when he says oh, it must be because these people are eyewitnesses and they were like
certifying the their testimony
Even after jesus's died and they were like
Distributing these stories and retelling them and stuff like that right because I read the jesus and the eyewitnesses a long time ago
And since then i've reread it several times
So now there is like some part of my brain that has that information stored. So when i'm now
reading some ancient text
I like evaluated the text against what vocab is saying in jesus and the eyewitnesses. So I keep noticing
When I read some like, I don't know biography. Oh, this character is named, but there's no reason for it. So why is that the case?
And it's never because they were the eyewitness, right? Like for example, I recently read
arabaz's alexandru which is by arian, which is one of the extant biographies of alexander
That's an example of ancient biography that names a lot of people for no apparent reason like it doesn't
Function in the text he for example makes sure to name all of the generals that
Commanded the different parts of the army in the different battles
He mentions the civil servants and stuff like that even though they don't do anything as characters in the text
There's a reason why he does that which is like explicable given greek cultural practices
It was a way how to immortalize those people and stuff like that
But not only are these people not
Not only is it not the case that they are given a personal name in the text because they were eyewitnesses
arian actually tells us
Who his eyewitnesses are
Which is what the author of the gospel of mark never does, right?
He repeats that over and over and the the first sentence in
Anabasis alexandru is
Tolemnions son of lagus and aristopolos are my two sources
If they agree
I trust them completely if they disagree
I record the account which is more plausible and which is more worthy of being told
So in the first sentence, he's telling you who his eyewitness sources are right because both of them were of course
Contemporaries and they accompanied alexander on his campaign, right? So
That's an interesting observation, but because maybe bolkan doesn't
Read enough greek and roman literature
he
Or he does he's not interested in like testing the hypothesis against other data
I mean, I can do like that
I could see how he might run to first Corinthians 15 or you know using the corpus, right?
The whole totality of the corpus and go well paul list them off as people who witnessed him, you know post resurrection
therefore
He then goes to the gospels
And then has this bat like this this assumption that he's bringing to the table and saying hey
I'm dealing with eyewitness testimony or eyewitnesses because here's this list over here that I think
Correlates to the characters over in this in these texts. And so I wonder if that's a huge driving force behind
What makes that connection for him?
Yeah, I mean he gives some reasons why I think that the named characters are named specifically because they are eyewitnesses
Right, like that's that's how that's the function that
Them being given a person name fulfills in the text, but like not only
I don't think it's it's not only the case that when you are reading different types of ancient literature
It's not usually why people are named
When they are given a personal name and then it doesn't perform any function in the narrative
It's not only the case that it's not because they are eyewitnesses. I've never seen that actually like I've never seen any other example
Where someone is given a personal name then being given a personal name doesn't perform any function in the narrative
But they are given that name because they are supposed to be the eyewitness, right?
Usually the author or I would say almost always the author just tells that tells you like these are my
These are my sources, right? And they if they are eyewitnesses
The author usually says they were eyewitnesses. They were there, right?
Because why wouldn't you say so like if you are the author of the gospel of Matthew?
Why wouldn't you and you are Matthew? Why wouldn't you say?
The material that I'm going to give you is from Peter
You you have every reason to do that and you have zero reasons not to do it to conceal it
Interesting Paul anything from you before we wrap up. Yeah, I actually I've been super curious. So how many man hours
Does this paper represent do you think?
I don't know. I don't think about it
You don't have to
Okay, so skip man hours like what's the lapse time then where you've been working on this for a year
You're working on this for six months. You would like uh, yeah
So we submitted
We submitted this
Spring so maybe march or something like that
And I think I first asked Brian to whether he's interested like a like a year before like year earlier
So we were kind of working on it on and off for a year
But we for example didn't do anything
Uh during the summer because we are both both busy with other stuff
So I don't know how many how many hours this represents. Yeah, sure. Okay. Well, even that's helpful for me. Just as I
Yeah, it's it's not unusual for a paper to take to take like six months to write. That's pretty normal actually in
many disciplines
Yeah, it's a lot of information here. I'm glad you dove into this and
I'd love to see more people do stuff like this. Um, just kind of
helping people understand that
What it does for me is it lowers confidence?
Obviously on being so dogmatic or being so confident like you said with the language
And uh, it makes me want to evaluate other avenues and I can't wait till your next one comes out where you're actually diving deeper
In in doing this with another corpus in depth
Um, I'd love to do one where we could do a follow-up even talking about this but like going into
All of the names that you're convinced based on your research are fictional
But I don't know if that overlaps with your second your next article or not
No, we we don't do any any of this work because like I
I have no way of knowing right right you can't tell
One thing that we kind of briefly discussed in the in the article
But we didn't do anything with it is that there have been a lot of different named characters in gospels and acts
That were suggested by scholars to be given a personal name because it's got a lick basically
So it like the name has some meaning that corresponds to what that character does right?
Yeah, yeah, but so so we just like list some examples as much as many as I was able to find
But like a lot of these arguments are super not convincing and I'm not I'm not personally convinced of any of it to be honest
It's possible especially like the probably the strongest arguments are when there is a connection to a character from the old testament
Right, so if someone in the gospels and acts does something
Which is kind of similar to what someone in the old testament does and they have the same name that may be like you can
Make an argument right, but it's it's I don't know
Well, I love how this was worldview independent like what you were doing
You weren't you weren't trying to say I'm looking at the same data
And I'm just gonna interpret different to flip the worldview which is always you know can be valuable
But usually like just the question is is this a good way of knowing?
And like can we learn what you're attempting to learn if we apply it to other works and like that is
So much more valuable because it just
It doesn't it doesn't depend on your worldview at all
I love what you're saying here Paul because this is the point about becoming more open-minded and flexible and understanding not everything
Like getting
Awareness of various possible hypotheses that fit and when I first met camille camille did a video with me on the Achilles hill for
Mythicism and he was like, you know coming at it and trying to I was a mythicist when I first interviewed him
He brought up some interesting points and his charts and stuff like that and it wasn't that I
Wasn't I started doubting he cracked my faith in Jesus mythicism because he said look
You can grant all of these things
are myth
Historicists do that all the time
Like and I I didn't know how in my mind at the time
To realize like you can have all of these things potentially be mythology and yet historicity still be the case
But if you grant that these things are historical or better for the historicity's case
Unless you want to throw an interpolation or some other ad hoc. I would call it
Proposition in many cases then you if any of them are historical or better suit the historical model then
Technically that works against mythicism
So you can have all these things and my point is is like your worldview could be strict straight up atheist
It doesn't matter. You can be anti-theist. It does not matter. You can walk away and go characters existed
people existed
You could even go further and say it's a memory
You can go even further and say
Someone documented what they think were really accounts as you've talked about paul with like the brain and how
You know, are they tripping? Is there something happening as opposed to mortem?
You know trauma and experience you can go any of these routes
It doesn't have to be all fiction
And I want to teach people or skeptics that maybe fit into those camps that I came from
To be more nuanced and understanding even if you grant these things
It does not draw that conclusion. So we need to be more open-minded. I did have one question camille
um
You I think I sent you the video I did with michael koshinosh
Oh, what was it about about ax where he goes into the name a neus
Oh, yeah
It's possible is one of the people that we cited for that because that's like that kind of
Lends itself to that kind of analysis, right?
It just paul you probably didn't watch this but man if you go back and watch this
I think you're gonna really enjoy what he does here
He takes that approach like I said all these names things that they're going into
They're not like it's the case being made by camille
A whole nother article could be made coupling this into what is this literature doing?
It still doesn't mean there wasn't a guy named a neus
But what happens in my opinion is the probability that this guy actually existed at this pivotal moment
In the narrative and that this is historically right after paul
Is changed from sol which has mimesis connections to king sol chasing david
And he's like almost verbatim mimesis in a way where he's like, why do you pursue me?
That paul paul or sol sol because it's not paul it's sol
Like king sol's chasing david. Why do you pursue me right after this pivotal ax chapter nine scenario paul goes?
And he he's renamed and he ends up
Healing a woman in a man the man's name is a neus
michael kaushenosh using richard perbos work from the ax commentary and several other people says that this has been overlooked
How common the name a neus
was used
And how if I bring up the name michael jordan
You know basketball
He's like a symbol for basketball a neus is this
That name we know is like the symbol for roam in a way. It doesn't mean there wasn't a guy, but like
You can't get any more roam
than a neus and so
His name pivots in the narrative at a perfect
juncture where it now transitions to cornelius
And salvation being brought to the goyim to the gentiles to the nations to roam and it's like it's like this perfect
Narrative pivot and so he points out and then you also have jonah's narrative
imitated
Uh in this situation, but I think that it just helps make you realize you're not dealing with
Literal history even if some of these people may have existed
He thinks it's unlikely
That this guy named a neus at this moment in the in the story
Ends up playing a role. It's the same problem with um troyes
I think it's called where denise mcdonald talks about the we passages and people go
This is a companion and it's like
Actually when you look right when the we passages come up
The the is it the location the geography camille is is troyes, which is actually
ancient troi
But yeah, yeah, it's the agent
It's so interesting to see how I like it makes me love the story even more
But I think people are missing how these geographies how these names may actually be
Thrusting the narrative even further
into a great
Novelish epic in a way
So it just it's really cool stuff if you have it awesome. I'm gonna look I have something to watch tonight
Yeah, I'll send you the link do that camille you you deserve the final word you put so much work into this man like
I think we have
A couple of more superchats. I think like oh do we?
Yeah, I'm glad you're watching
Oh, what is the genre of mark?
Well, it's a good question beyond probably
The the the the closest comparison that I've been able to find in like ancient literature to mark is probably some of the lives of iso
um
For a number of reasons, right? So yeah
biography
It's it's weird like for a number of reasons and it would be really interesting to find out why
Probably because the person was super talented, but not very well educated
It's very episodic or something like that
But yeah, like in not not in terms of content but in terms of structure and stuff like that
lives of iso
so
Probably the author of the gospel of mark knew about as much information about the historical jesus
As the authors of the lives of iso actually knew about iso, right?
Who lived in he is placed to like the sixth century bce so super remote past
Probably nothing almost nothing that we know about him is like historically reliable, right?
He's usually taken to be an actual person because of reasons
but yeah
Huh, thank you
Graves 174 again. Do you think jesus mythicism or traditional authorship is more likely?
Yeah, that's a good question. So if you think um, it depends on which like, um,
Hot take on jesus mythicism you have right because I was actually thinking what would be my
Mythesis like my best mythesis theory
Uh, but if you I wouldn't probably go the route of these celestial sperm bank
Think right I would maybe go
Gnosticism first or something like that
Uh, that like jesus is actually a uh, yeah, whatever. So well if you if you think uh, richard carriers
Hypothesis and the traditional authorship
Then I would say probably uh, like if if the thing is that like
If richard carry
Did you mute it did it again?
Oh, no, you're here. You're here
Yeah, okay, so if if what richard carrier thinks is what happened that would be exceptional
All right, because we we don't really have any examples of the specific thing that he's imagining happening
right
For numerous reasons that are like too complicated to go into it's not impossible
But it's not very well attested right like and the comparisons that people give even career himself
There are good reasons for thinking that they are not actually like really good comparisons, right? Like if you think that jesus is a
Good a good figures to compare jesus to are people like heracles, romulus
Dionysus and stuff like that
Ask yourself when they are depicted as living
for a century
A generation before the earliest accounts we have about them were written
Not really, right?
uh
So that's a mythicism or it is richard carrier theory
When it comes to traditional authorship for at least some of the gospels, I actually don't have like super
hard
I don't actually don't think that it's super
Imposible for some of them if you take into consideration that the canonical gospels that we have today are probably patchworks
So they were like put together in many different layers of editing
And what we are looking at is like a final product that came out of a black box that we don't count really see into
for for example
The gospel of john very famously seems like
The final chapter was added. Maybe the the introduction was added the logo theology was added and then it seems that like
Something fishy is going on inside the narrative
So some people think they can see the science gospel inside it, right?
Then of course you have the synoptic gospels where you have q
You have some additions and stuff like that
You maybe marcion was actually correct
He wasn't a liar about where his gospel came from. So maybe look that we have isn't actually
like
a unified composition
Maybe that's like a rewrite of
a previous gospel
And if you think all if you take all of these things into consideration
It's not actually super implausible that some of the documents that are kind of behind the gospels that we have today in the early stages
might actually come from
Someone who was like contemporary and knew jesus like for example, what papyrus says?
Matches what scholars reconstruct to be q much better than the gospel of matthew
So maybe matthew the apostle actually existed and maybe he wrote down some things that jesus said
That's not implausible
What papyrus says about the authorship of the gospel of mark?
lines up with
The speeches that peter gives in acts and a lot of scholars suggested that
You know, there is a lot of erasings and stuff like that in those speeches
So it looks like there might have been
Like a document
Speeches of peter that the author of acts used and incorporated into his narrative
If that if that is true and that document existed
Why not think that it was actually written by mark?
Who knew peter?
Not super implausible, right?
Or maybe like the way how I think the the we passages might have ended up in in acts is that
There was a narrative
About paul's missionary journeys that was written by someone. We don't know who
That was written in the first person
That mentions some of these place names. It mentions traveling, you know by by a boat
From town to town and the author of look acts
Maybe in the second century
Maybe in in a polemic against marzion just took the text and incorporated it into the narrative
If that's the case, I have absolutely no problem
Imagining that narrative was actually written by a companion of paul
I don't have a problem with that
Right, but that's pretty far from what I think most people call traditional authorship, right?
Like I'm with you on like multiple sources and could some of these sources be
Legitimate eyewitnesses that is not the same as saying
traditional authorship is
John wrote this
Yeah, no
Because you have to remember like
Just the recent discovery or the recent publication of the oxylingus fragment with
That has you know what i'm talking about, right? The second century fragment
That's like a mix of matthew luke and the gospel of thomas
it seems that
This is of course second century. Maybe like late second century or something like that
But it's I I I imagine that a lot of other scholars have
A lot of other scholars because I'm now one of them have have mentioned that probably this is how these things were originally like
This is the material right like when
When justin marthe says memoirs of the apostles that the gospel like he says something
That sounds like some of the gospels that we have but he calls it memoirs of the apostles the
Greek term that he uses is like a technical term for a certain type of document
And it's not that dissimilar from what
I can imagine was how the like how early material about Jesus was circulating
So people had like different lists of sayings. Maybe some narrative material. They were free to
edit it
change it
Expand it mix it up right and eventually out of that process that was like very creative dynamic
It took decades
Eventually what crystallized are the texts that we have
But it's not the case that like a guy sat down
And in like three hours wrote what we today have
Well, I'm on I'm on board with that. I'm just saying that you know
What when I talk to people in my evangelical circles about traditional worship authorship
They're still on board that like moses wrote the pentateuch in that kind of fashion
Right
So I I agree with you, but it's just depends you'd have to actually define what true authorship means
And and this is my my pushback isn't that that couldn't be the case. I don't rule it out
My pushback and this is what I had a conversation about with barred airman when he started getting into oral tradition
And you know, this stuff might be a memory or it could go back like allison does and and barred airman
It's not that it couldn't
I mean I get it because I did a video series with allison and I called it did it happen or not
Do you think this is historical?
Like meaning it has a memory or do you think this is fictional?
And we went through each of the gospels and I even got into the letters of paul to get his thoughts on the eyewitness thing
And he didn't get my angle. I was bringing in richard, uh, uh, richard, um
sorry, um
resurrection and reception
You know bringing in the idea that the eyewitness list would have been inventive in some way
Based on other eyewitness models that we have about the caesars, etc
So it would have been known
You need to have a list of eyewitnesses in order to be a cult worthy of being recognized
Because that's just the the modus operandi of other cults. So
um
And so I used that model and he didn't even know what I was saying like even allison was like, uh, I've never really heard people argue
This point. I'm like, I think it's worth bringing on the table. I'm not saying it is the case
But if it's not even on the table, what are we doing?
I don't think scholarship in new testament studies is actually doing like the classicists are doing so
The the point I brought up and then I'll shut up is that
I said maybe some of the stuff's a memory
But I don't think that's provable until we have other sources to show so or like to prove it because
I brought up
Go ahead. Go ahead. Sorry. You know what's completely crazy to me
Like dale allison is one of the best new testament scholars that's alive today and he's
If not the best that like out one out of three most competent scholars when it comes to the gospel of mature, right?
But so so he's probably that everything that was that's relevant to the gospel within you that was published since like 1700s, right?
Including things in latin
German french, you know, all of these these these works
But I was really surprised that like apparently he has blind spots when it comes to other stuff
He he didn't know what kalirhua is or he didn't like
Appreciate what what the argument is with the divine translation and bodily disobedience and stuff like that, right? Right?
Yeah, it's like
There are scholars that are super focused on one specific issue
But you have to be a little bit of a generalist, right?
You have to read other stuff primary literature from the ancient world, right? Because that's illuminating
Yeah, I didn't for example now the hermetic literature until recently and I was assigned some
Of the the the the shorter text from corpus hermeticum
I was really surprised how like relevant it is for understanding early Christianity. I think at least as as comparative material, right?
I like
Most New Testament scholars don't know that it exists, right? They don't know what it is
What's the history of the tradition and stuff like that?
But in the hermetic tradition
It says that Hermes the the the Greek god was a teacher of moses
But actually moses got all of his information from from Hermes, right?
So that's like what what what phylo does with Plato, right? He says oh Plato got all of his information from moses. Well, this is
Oh
You're muted damn now. This is good. I love dude and by the way, uh, Paul
That idea, you know how you've covered all this like how do we explain first Corinthians 15 and I witnessed this and who saw it first and all that
You know, you're playing in the sandbox and I love that because I could play in the sandbox too
I can play in that box this box
But one of the things that's never on the table that I don't hear among a lot of those skeptics is rich is um
Resurrection and reception and early Christianity
Like this is so important in my in my opinion in terms of at least bringing to the table
And I I don't really hear the talk about all of the various eyewitness claims
meaning
The the way that it's modeled is it's almost like
A hall of fame thing when you have a person who becomes deified
They become they have an apotheosis. They become deified
It's almost necessary
To back up their deification that there's there's testimony
Eyewitness testimony even fictive accounts of people from way way in antiquity
Had eyewitnesses like Romulus look at how they formulate it
They invent not only his apotheosis ascension narratives the whole nine. They also invent eyewitnesses
and so
I wonder I don't know this it could just be like the models you've been playing with that there's some psychology here that they're
That there's some actual hallucination model or could be this or that or it could be one guy hallucinated
And then it went became contagious and everyone else all these models are plausible
But what about the model of saying they invent
A creative eyewitness claim because they know all the other models. They see what works. They know
Romulus look at that. He's a god
Coranus like everyone knows that's what you do
Why aren't we considering that this is what's happening?
We actually have that we actually one have one example like that with that we can positively show right? Do you know?
Seneca wrote a satire of he was making fun of divination of gloria's
I think in english it's called like a pump
Pumpkification of gloria's so he doesn't he dies. He ascends to heaven
But because he's like incompetent incompetent and stupid and stuff like that
The gods end up rejecting him and he gets turned into a pumpkin or something like that, right?
But the thing is that the way house Seneca writes it
He writes it as a satire of a historical work
That's describing what actually happened
And in the opening section
He makes fun of how historians work and he says look
I'm not I'm not going to tell you who my eyewitnesses are like historians never never do that
Fuck you basically, right?
Okay, I'm going to tell you
There is a guy and he gives the name
who is like a
He he is he collects tall
From via apia from the apian road that goes from Rome to to to kapua, right?
And because he sits in the toll booth all the time
He has the like the perfect vantage point
So who can he can see all of these like dead emperors ascending to heaven?
And he's my eyewitness source for this because he saw
The soul of gloria's like ascending to heaven and he actually heard all of the conversations that were going going on in heaven
So he actually invents this eyewitness of course didn't exist
Just to make fun of the fact that when these apotheosis accounts were being told
Both about romellas and about the theified emperors you had to have an eyewitness, right?
So that's really that's really funny and specifically makes fun of the fact that like this is a historiographical practice or like a
historiography adjacent practice
That's the point i'm saying like if we can go different paths with you paul on this because this is stuff you do when you're engaging with christians
But it's like what's paul doing?
If not trying to like validate his gospel and his claim to apostleship
He's like he's doing multiple things, but like how do you become well? Why should we listen to you?
He appeared to me
There are also two two other interesting things about that specific text in seneca
So he calls this is in latin so it's not in greek, but he calls the news about gloria's is that the good
death the good news
So that would be like a functional
latin equivalent of a long leon and he says that when claudius died
jurists who had to
spend his reign in hiding
because reasons right because
His incompetent incompetent rule and stuff like that when he died
They finally came came out of hiding and they looked like
corpses coming out of the grave
Oh my god
I love finding stuff like this because it's not I I want to praise like you said allison and then i'll stop
I got two super chats. We really should try to wrap it up because yeah
Yeah, and I apologize paul
um
Just pointing out allison when I asked him about denis mcdonald's mimesis or any of that he said to be honest with you
I've never read it and I've never thought to compare those things and he said i was trained in 1976 or something
He said I learned greek and that was it. I've only focused on hebra connections. I've only focused on
Jewish material and never consider the greek world. That's why I love classicist. That's why I love what you're doing camille
You're doing a bigger picture. Um
All right question guys, and we'll make this one easy and simple. Thank you graze
Do you think jesus mythicism or the resurrection is more likely?
I think jesus mythicism
Yeah, I'm not you. You have like a really really specific. I don't know. I would be probably able to brainstorm some
Model of the resurrection that would be more probable. I don't know
But yeah, jesus mythicism all the way
to the mega
Constellation pagasus I can't get over how the gospels contradict
The creative the universe can't get his stuff right getting these books written
That goes for the rest of the books also didn't feel it important to keep it free from mistakes
I was I was never religious. So it's like this. I'm not really thinking about these kinds of things, right?
we you know because there is
source criticism there is
Foreign criticism there is mimesis criticism, but what I do is content criticism
So if you want to know
Whether something happened or not whether it's like history or not
You have to ask the questions like what what is the actual content?
Like what are the events that are transpiring in the narrative?
Are there people working on water? If yes, probably didn't happen, right? Like
You sometimes it's like, I don't know a great keener wrote christu biography
Where he
Talked about like compared to the the gospels to the biographies of gaoba and and these kinds of guys, right?
And it's just like very often when that kind of work or apologetics gets done
People seem to lose track of what the gospels actually depict like what is the content, right?
You focus on names or you focus on eyewitnesses or traditions or gospel authorship and stuff like that just like read it
This is not rocket science
You know, yeah
Yeah
Constellation thank you for coming in. I understand where you're coming from my friend and most I would say
People who aren't coming from our angle. They don't see the problem
They'll allow it and then somehow still make abracadabra happen. I personally don't I don't I'm more the
I'm more the guy who realizes like whoa these cracks in the in this text literature makes me question
And and the questions lead me to more questions and and my my epistemic bar
It never comes near the floor, uh, you know
I'm bringing that up because of paul paul made that famous man. You really did
Low bar bill. Yeah, low bar bill victor engelman says could the name jesus yeshua joshua including the great warrior joshua in the old testament come from the
Hurrian war god
I probably but you're trying to pronounce this
I don't know. It's it's like
Theophoric in hebrew, right?
That would be a question for
Like an old system on scholar
Maybe at Matthew monger might being a philologist have an idea or something. So
Yeah, um, thank you victor. I sorry if we don't know the question. Yeah, go watch apology as video right now
You have to it's like sexy is all get out
Um, I'm dating it today. My wife said it's okay
And uh, I'm not kidding. That's one of my favorite videos so far in your channel, brother
Well, it's only 37 minutes. So it's got that going for it
It is it is check him out subscribe to him camille also has a youtube channel
It's in the description cam and cam if you haven't subscribed do so if you haven't got the article
Check it out if you can afford it on brill
Um, yeah, there's a lot more i'm sure in the weeds the details in the article you can cover and be on the lookout for the upcoming ones
I can't wait to see what you do
Thank you guys. Thank you
Thank you, paul. I'm gonna go ahead and throw this out and uh, let's do matrix
Or no, let's do the horseman. It's apocalypse time. So
All right, never forget
We
Do
You
