We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
This show is going to be fantastic.
Some of you might go, why is this important?
Why does this even matter?
I'm telling you, this is extremely important.
If you really want to even understand the nuances in the biblical literature, you want
to pay attention to this because who Israel is, this people, this holy goi, the holy nation
of Israel and their others is diverse and there are a lot of differences.
In fact, it's so complex that I refer to these experts today to help you explain these ideas
to our audience.
I was an ex-fundamentalist.
When I saw something that said, this is blue, everything was blue.
When I saw said something was green, everything turned green.
I didn't understand that there was a fluidity.
There was a lot more dynamics.
There's more complexity to what's going on in the Bible that we have today, the Hebrew
Bible.
We're going to talk about the Greek Septuagint and Second Temple literature.
We're going to stop before we get to Paul.
We might say something in passing about Paul, but guys, the next episode is about Paul.
Stay tuned.
Check this out.
You don't want to miss it.
In the description right now, get the book.
The hard copy, the hardback is expensive.
Get the paperback or the e-book and you guys can read the same material.
I really, really recommend it and ask you politely, please go check it out.
OK, today we're going to talk about the Gentiles and the nations.
And the book is called Goi.
It's called Israel's multiple others and the birth of the Gentile.
And I'd like to introduce our guests.
Isshai Rosensvi is a full professor at Tel Aviv University, where he teaches rabbinic
literature in the Department of Jewish Philosophy and Talmud.
In 2013, he was elected to the Israel Young Academy of Sciences.
He has written on Midrash and Mishnah, as well as on issues of self-formation and collective
identity in Second Temple Judaism and rabbinic literature.
His publications are Demonic Desires, and I might butcher some names.
So help me with this yet, Sahara and the problem of evil and late antiquity, body
and soul and ancient Judaism, the Mishnah Sota ritual.
Did I say that correct? Yeah, yeah, cool. Awesome.
Temple, gender and Midrash between Mishnah and Midrash, the birth of rabbinic literature
and the topic of today's discussion, a book from 2018 entitled Goi, Israel's Others and
the Birth of the Gentile, co-authored with our other guest, Adi Ofir.
He is a professor emeritus. Am I saying this correct? Yes.
Emeritus at Tel Aviv University and a visiting professor at Brown University,
where he teaches at the Kogut Institute for the Humanities and the program for Middle East
Studies. He also directs the project, Political Concepts at Brown. His books include, of course,
Goi, Israel's Others and the Birth of the Gentile, Divine Violence, Two Essays on God and Disaster,
The One State Conditions, Democracy and Occupation in Israel, Palestine with Ariela Azule.
Yes. I hope I said that right. The Order of Evils as the final book.
They've also co-authored a 42-page article for the Jewish Quarterly Review in 2015,
which predated the book by a few years called Paul and the Invention of the Gentiles.
Links will be in the description for this. So the motivation, if you don't mind, tell us what
motivated you to start the project leading to writing your article and your book on Goi.
What was the division of labor in this project? Which specific areas of expertise did each bring
to the table? Yeah. So maybe I'll say something about the motivation and Adi will talk about the
division of labor, etc. So for us, the Goi is not past. It's the present. It's part of our reality.
First, in Israel, in the state of Israel, where the distinction between the Jew and the Gentile is
actually in the legal codes. For example, there is no interreligious marriage in Israel.
And burial is separated between Jews and Gentiles. And of course, citizenship depends on ethnicity.
So that's the Israeli side of the Goi as an actual entity. But even in
American Jewry, where of course, it's not in the low books, but it's still very much operative.
Intermarriage is one of the hottest discussions in Jewish communities in the United States.
And so the Goi is there. It's live and kicking. And therefore, it fascinated us. And we thought,
you know, we'll find like, I don't know, 20, 30 books about the birth of the Goi.
And then we can, you know, continue and analyze the, you know, the kind of the concept itself.
But we didn't find any, basically, any research on the birth of the Goi. So we said, okay,
there's a lacuna here. There's some kind of blind spot here. And that really motivated us to kind
of, you know, to dig into the issue. Yeah. So for me, well, maybe I'll start with the
division of flavor. I am not a specialist in rabbinic literature or in second temple literature.
I've come for theory from political philosophy and different domains.
So for me, it was, it was really a kind of a puzzle. How is it possible that for so long,
the world for Jews was divided between Jews and Gentiles in the way that, let's say, that the world
of psychiatry is divided between mentally ill and healthy person. So it is, and much more so,
actually, because you can be half ill. You can have symptoms, syndromes, etc. No, it's just
a binary division. And that actually, like we define reasonable person by saying, well,
he's not insane, right? Insanity, insanity are opposite. There is something very similar here.
And I was influenced in this by a very important work by Michel Foucault that you mentioned,
who wrote a history of madness. And I asked myself, well, maybe there can be something
similar. Maybe we can write a history of gentility. And then Isha came into the picture and said, well,
maybe we can do it. Maybe there is something there. And therefore, from there we started.
So as you can see, there's a historical side to it. There's textual, logical, but there's also
conceptual, right? Understanding this unique form, this binary form that, you know, every individual
is either a Gentile or a Jew. There's nothing trivial about that. There's nothing self-evident
about that. And there's a political side to it, right? Because it's a way to organize
a collective of individuals, right? Telling them you are Jews and the others are Gentiles.
So we look at this form and the more we look at this form, the stranger it looks to us, you know?
And we don't understand why is it so natural for others, including other scholars, that the
guy seems to them so natural that they don't even bother historicizing it. And that's what you
guys do so well. In your book, you trace back to its origins, or at least as far back in antiquity
as we can get, biblically speaking. But you guys mentioned stuff we're going to talk about here
in just a second on, even the Greeks did this. So let me read a few things here to kind of touch
base on what we're going through here on this show and then allow you guys to elaborate. The
overview of the topic at hand. As a brief overview, this article and your book trace the development
of the term and the category of what commonly referred to as Gentile. In other words, a person
who is not Jewish, you've poured through a ton of biblical and extra biblical and rabbinic literature,
and you've argued that this entire concept, as we know it today, developed much later than scholars
assume. In fact, you argue that the abstract concept of the Gentile first appeared in Paul's
authentic letters before becoming further developed in rabbinic literature. The goals of this should
be of our show of the show today. And the discussion is to present your groundbreaking ideas in ways
that is accessible to everyone in layman's terms. Case in point, your work was recently
endorsed by a scholar, Jason Staples on Bart Ehrman's blog. In response to some comments asking
him to define the term Gentile after providing a brief explanation, he said, quote, I suggest
taking a look at Ishae Rosensfi and Adia Feir's 2018 book Goi, which engages in a highly detailed
and quite technical theoretical at times history of the term ethnos. We'll come back to the rest
of Jason Staples' comments about your work, since I'd like to have you address his criticism. It's
not really a criticism for him to say that your work is technical theoretical, but we'll try to
break things down so that everyone understands as much of the technical and theoretical stuff as
possible. So I guess we should dispense with a few definitions at the outset. You lean heavily
of the work of French philosopher and historian. Help me with this name. Is it Mitchell or Michael
Foucault? Michel Foucault, who developed very complex ideas about the concept of discourse
as a kind of intersection between language and knowledge and social constructs. But your theory
relies on your own version of Foucault's ideas. So I'd like for you to elaborate a little on what
you mean by discourse and what a discursive formula is. It seems like the key point of
your analysis is not to study how the word Goi changed over time, but you focus rather on how
the cultural concept described by that word changes over time. And actually how the entire discourse
of Goi changes. And I don't want to get technical here, of course, and too theoretical. So let me
use an example that I'm sure you can easily follow. Think about football. I'm sure you
know something about football. And I think that Jason Staple knows something about football as well.
So imagine that you replace the football with a soccer ball.
Would the game change? You just change one element, just the ball. Would the game change? Maybe not.
I think so. Already. There is already some change. But maybe you can try and kick the ball or throw
the ball and use all the other elements as they are. But actually football and soccer ball get
their meaning not just from their shape, but from their function in the game. So a soccer ball is
a ball for a soccer game. And a football is a ball for a football game. And they are very, very
different games. So we have to understand not only the change in the shape of the ball,
we have to understand the entire, the entire transformation of the rules, the numbers of
players, the size of the field, the goals, everything changes, right? So a discursive
change is a change of this magnitude. That when every, all the elements change, even though
you can have the same uniform, for example. But when there are places in the new field,
under the rules of a new game, they would function differently. So we have to think about
changes here in terms of modification of particular meanings. Now let's switch back to this course.
So we have, instead of balls, we have words. They change meanings. They change meaning all the time.
But the real change happened when, when the new meaning is integrated
within the transformation of the whole field with all the rules.
Wow. So say to this, just one, one more thing.
A player and the spectators, and of course the, the, the judges or how, how you call them the
referees, referees are on the field. They know the rules. Now we are in this course
we have a game or a kind of a game which people play without knowing the rule necessarily.
They have it like we have, you know, native speakers, not me, but native speakers of English
would have tacit knowledge of the rules of grammar. So you cannot just get, get, you know,
a booklet with all the rules. You have to extract them from the practice of how people play the game.
And that's the basic idea. So our claim is that, that, that we are following here a
slow transformation in which the world goal is the change in the meaning of the world goal is
just an indication of the, the big change that happens. And we have to reconstruct the entire
field as it was transformed. Wow. So we're really interested in the, the history of this,
you know, of this framework that, you know, everything that happens happens already inside
it, inside this Jew going framework that divide the world. And that's a misunderstanding that,
you know, we kind of tackle very often that people say, well, but there's such a multiplicity,
you know, in the attitude toward the goal. And we say, yes, but this multiplicity is already
inside this framework, because all these different attitudes toward the goal already accept the rules
of the game, the game of the Jew and the goal that every individual in the world is either a Jew
or a Gentile. And so we're not interested in these different attitudes. We're interested in the very
rules of the game, the very framework, and, and, and the way this framework came into being. Wow.
That's complicated. The way you put that is actually really well, because as I was reading your book,
it does appear that the rules change. They're not the same in the same places. In fact,
Deuteronomy might say something that gives you this idea that this is how the rule is going to
be. It's more exclusive. It's, it's, it's this. And then you find out, well, this prophet used
these things and seemed to broaden the rules a little, allowing the others, whatever the others
may be. And you get in, man, you guys take a magnifying glass to this and show who the others
might be. That it's important that if they're listing nations that are, let's say prohibited,
like Canaan, it's like those are the specific nations they're saying no, no, no to. But they're
not saying no, no, no to all other nations and people like me. And I'm going to use myself as
an example because I have done this. Look at that and go, well, it sounds like if you're not an
Israelite, literally from the seed of Abraham, it's a no, no for anyone else. And I'm missing
the rules of engagement in the ancient, in the antiquity of the text. And I think the rules
sometimes change between the Hebrew and the Septuagint. But you guys are the ones who look
real close and catch those. Yeah. But listen, it's not just you, you know,
even scholars, well-trained scholars tend to kind of anachronistically read back this very,
very strong, frozen, you know, division, generalized division between Jews and Gentiles
backwards to, you know, text and periods where it didn't exist. So Ezra and Nechemiah is a great
example of text where we see, you know, much fluidity, but many scholars see the Goy,
basically, the Jew Gentile division. And what we argue is that you read it back from, you know,
later periods. And so that's, you know, that's your glasses rather than the text itself,
which is much more fluid and playful than, you know, this generalized division.
Wow. Adi, would you like to comment on that?
Yeah, if I mentioned Ezra and Nechemiah, I would like to add just one aspect.
So I spoke about the rules of the game, but there is always also the performance,
how you perform the game. What we see in Ezra and Nechemiah, very intensively, I would say,
that the text is preoccupied, not really with the rules, but with the performance
of the new distinction, that it still doesn't know how to call.
So instead of calling it because it still doesn't have the concept and doesn't have the clear
conceptual binary division, the stable opposites and the line that goes in between,
instead of formulating it in the way that it became natural later, they simply show it
on stage, so to speak. So they have a great assembly and they call all the people and they
and they weep and they pray and they cry and there's a lot of things going on there.
And if we follow a similar episode in Nechemiah, it always involves some kind of performance that,
as we understand it, is an evidence of the fact that it was not yet there.
Wow. So the reason we see it and others not, just one sentence,
forgive me, the reason we see it and others not is not that we're smarter, it's just that we
don't assume the goal. And since we don't assume the goal, we can see stuff that is going on there,
that assuming the goal would not let you see, because you already see the goal everywhere.
If I might add to that, because I do want to continue reading to try and get to some of these,
I think it's really important though that what you're saying is to try and simplify and correct
me if I'm wrong, maybe you can adjust what I'm saying. When you talked about Ezra Nehemiah and
you mentioned how it's about the performance, it sounds to me in looking at the rules and the
performance here as an analogy that why are they taking the time to say who is not allowed to be
married to, exogamy, not to marry outsiders. They take the time to say do not marry these, in fact
divorce these wives, but you mentioned in your book something that just blew my mind, they don't
mention the Persians, they don't, there's like certain people groups that they don't say not to
marry. So it makes me wonder if there was a connection where, hey, we're not going to count
them as goy, or we're not going to draw a binary distinction between us and our neighbors, the
Persian or whoever it might be, because you listed like five or six different nations,
they don't say not to marry and they don't say to divorce those wives, but only divorce these ones.
And some of those nations that are listed didn't even exist anymore in the context that are mentioned.
So your book goes very, very deep and I ask everyone to consider reading it because it
makes me think outside of the box. So I guess I can keep reading. Is that, did I correctly?
Absolutely right. It's a localized struggle and such a localized struggle can exist only
because they did not have yet the concept of the generalized goy. So they could think about the
Amaya Arets, about the people of the land in the context of Judea without asking themselves,
and what about the Persians? It's not that they allowed to marry Persian. It was not part of the
of the discussion, but the whole ability to think localized is because they did not have
this generalized concept of the goy yet. All of Israel, I mean, they are fluctuating,
they are fluctuating between the different labels that define different groups.
The most prominent is the returnes, those who return from exile, from Babylon.
So who are exactly those returnes? What about those who remained? Are they part of the group or not?
That's so important. I hope everyone watching caught the power of that because that is extremely
important. Ezra and Nehemiah seem to be writing mainly, they're kind of, I guess, if I could use
the word like upset and focused on the returnes, like there's a big issue here. So wow, okay,
you got to read the book to really see the depth. So the nations in ancient Greek, the term ethne
frequently with the definite article, the nations, was already used in pre-biblical Greek literature
to refer to foreign nations or barbarian nations. This usage goes back to Aristotle.
Just so we get a rough idea, I've put together a few key examples. Aristotle politics, fourth
century BC, and also, unquote, and also among the nations that are strong enough to expand
at the expense of others. Here, the non-hellenic nations is inserted into the translation because
for Aristotle's audience simply saying the nations made it clear that he was referring to foreigners.
And of course, we can mention Appian of Alexandria, the civil wars, second century AD.
Moreover, he was already proposing to send successors to take command of the nations
before his time had expired, unquote. Here we have a Greek writing centuries after Aristotle,
referring to foreign provinces as the nations. How does this shape our understanding of how
Greek-speaking Hellenized Jews began adopting this convention when referring to outsiders,
non-Jews, from their own perspective? Sorry, that's complex, but...
No, no, so listen. Hellenist Jews lived among these two worlds, right? Between these two worlds,
the Jews and the Hellenists. And therefore, it's the right question to ask, right? How did they
internalize these two, not just linguistic, different linguistic rules, but also cultural
and discursive. But what I want to emphasize is that the very fact that you have a term for
the others, that's pretty trivial, that there is us and there are the others.
We ask, you know, kind of, in order to get to the goi, you need much more than that. You need
that all the others will be unified, will be think as one unity, right? That is negative in,
you know, in its core, right? That Gentile is nothing more than a non-Jew, and that all these
others are unified. And that hardly happens in Aristotle and other, you know,
Greek writers, but that lead us, and I don't know if you want to get there already,
to the concept of the barbarian and the comparison that we told very hard to make in our book,
between the Greek concept of the barbarian and the Jewish concept of the goi.
So the barbarian is the opposite of the Helen, right, of the Greek. And it is often
presented as a clear binary distinction. But the Greeks, even when, even in the
the hardcore of a discourse that opposes Greek and barbarian, they never dreamt
on forgetting that there are Persians and there are Skits and there are Lydians and there are
Egyptians. They knew it very well that some barbarians are of this, of that nation.
And that these distinctions matter. And this is incredibly, very incredibly important.
There is wisdom in these people and there is courage in those people and all kinds of things.
When you get to the concept of the rabbinic Gentile, all this disappears.
So that's therefore the barbarian in this sense that Adi mentioned, is more similar to the biblical
foreigner, where the distinction between different nations is highly, is very crucial and important
than to the rabbinic goi that erased this distinction. They don't care which nation is which,
as long as you're a Gentile. Wow. Yeah. It sounds almost like a derogatory term from the
viewpoint of the person who is writing. If that makes sense, you're lower than us and less than
us somewhat. Because, let's be honest, the Greeks use it for barbarians. And it seems like the
Jewish authors also kind of use it saying, look, we're the holy goi. And that you guys
spend some time on holiness, which wasn't in my template here. But I think that's like very
important to understand, to be separated. And that runs in every book. It's in every book.
It might have different rules, if you will, in those books on how this is about the priest or
this is about the people themselves. And it gets very complex and very detailed. But holiness
runs through the whole thing where it gets really interesting is when we start getting to stuff like
Philo or Josephus or these Hellenistic authors and then late Second Temple literature. And it's like,
there seems to be two different types of splits. Like one group is saying, you know, yeah, Jews
are important like Philo, very exclusive, but universal, like very universal. And the other
groups are very like, no, don't even marry kind of Ezra Nehemiah a little, but it's not quite
Ezra Nehemiah. Like Ezra Nehemiah are only Ezra Nehemiah. They're not like the same as all these
other authors. So hard for me to wrap my mind around it. But so Derek, can I can I add some kind
of tweak to your presentation, which everything? No, no, just a small, because you talk about
derogatory use of the Gentile. And I want to use Adi's, you know, kind of metaphor of the
game, right? The soccer metaphor to to to explicate what derogatory means here. Because we don't
mean necessarily derogatory content, but they say the Gentile is this and that some of them are
more tolerant, some of them are less, some of them are even pluralistic, some that derogatory,
you know, stuff is in the game, right? It's in the very distinction between Jew and Gentile,
the chosen and the others. So, so it's a kind of a, you know, empty box, you can add to it,
you know, some more derogatory stuff, you can add some more tolerant stuff, you can add all kind of
attitude toward. But what we're interested in is in the box itself, right? In the very fact that
you put all these others in one box and define them as non-Jews, right? As the others. So it's
not the content itself that we're interested. And by the way, the rabbis are much, you know, less
kind of occupied in in cursing the Gentiles and stuff like that, because they have the category,
the category does the work for them, right? So they're kind of less obsessed like they're
predecessor with, you know, making this distinction and saying they're, you know,
they're not like us. And so you see it for us that what is really crucial is the rules of the game
rather than the specific content. So, you know, Hellenist Jews could be much more
tolerant than, I don't know, than Judeans in the, but they have the same game. They have the same,
right? The same structure. So we are into the structure itself.
Adi, would you like to add? I would like just to mention here that
the attempt to establish a certain distinction between us and them, some us and some them,
is there all the time? It depends on context. It depends on political conditions.
And it depends on the specific ideology of the author's concern. So we can discern
a trend. They try to say, yes, we are different. And there is some very distinct marks to our
differences. They come from the laws of God. These laws actually surround us like the walls of the
city. This is the Aristias metaphor. But in this, in the fact that they are different,
we are not different than any other ethnic group. Every ethnic group is different.
Every ethnic group has its own laws and customs and manners, etc. That distinguishes it.
And in this, we are actually presenting a model which is universal. It's a universal model of
difference. Aristias doesn't say we are better than you. Our laws are beautiful, wonderful.
But it's not about telling you that yours are not. Every nation has the right to think about
its own laws. It's wonderful. So this is one direction. Let's say it's a more tolerant
development of this attempt to build a distinction. The other one is more
souveniristic and say, well, it's not only us, it's only our genes, let's say, our seed
that guarantees that the distinction, that the group will be proper.
But throughout second temple period, so until, as we argue in the book, until Paul,
none of these attempts come down to the understanding or not to the concept that
the distinction is not just a distinction between us and them, but it's between every one of us
and every one of them. Every one of them, again, in the rabbinic already in Paul, but
more specifically in the rabbinic literature, every one of them would become, in this respect,
the same. And we don't want to bother anymore if he is Greek or Egyptian or Syrian.
It is just one of them. This is when the going comes.
That's interesting because this brings up a couple things. If you don't mind me mentioning,
before I pull up, I'm going to pull up a chart for everybody to see real quick here. Let me share
this chart. I think this is a great chart my good friend Steven Nelson made just to give people an
idea to see during different periods how these terms might have used. I just wanted to share it
for a second, let them see so they can take a screenshot snapshot, save that in your mind when
you look at these things. You can see these terms take a different usage over different periods.
And of course, it gets way more detailed when you see their book. This is something that I
know is not your specialty, but I've heard that scholars do run to books like the Gospel of Matthew,
right? Which the Gospels we've already talked about aren't in your area. But it's interesting to
mention he uses an ethnic distinction by saying that Jesus came only for the lost sheep of the
house of Israel. So scholarship has universally said these are the Jews. Like he came for the Jews.
And so what really I think goes back so we can back up a little bit into the time period of
second-topal literature and, you know, Ezra, Nehemiah, exile situation. A lot of people talk about
the lost tribes of Israel. And they say that, hey, these lost tribes that went out into Assyria or
in during the Judean exile with Babylon and so forth, what happened is they got lost out there
and they didn't return. They didn't come back, but there was a promise they would come back.
And so there are groups that say those Israelites are now considered ethnic or they kind of run
with these view that technically Gentiles are now Israelites or they call these Israelites
Gentiles. Have you heard of this idea before? Yeah. So listen, you know, you already know that
no, no, listen, you already know that for us, the questions are much more kind of, you know,
you use the magnified glasses metaphor. It depends on which text, in which period,
in which, but, but in Ezra Nehemiah, for example, we find something pretty similar, right? That
Ame'ah that sought the people of the land consider themselves to be Israelites, right? Israelite that
did not go to exile. And yet the returnese sees them as, you know, as, well, Gentiles will be
anachronistic, but as non-Judeans, as non-us, right? As others. And so, yes, part of the question is
exactly how you, where do you cut, right? Where do you make the division? Where do you, and listen,
it seems that our book is kind of interested in the Goi, in the birth of the Goi, but much of our
book, large chunk of our book is an attempt to reconstruct, right? Different various ways of
making distinctions before the Goi took over, before this one mega distinction, generalized
distinction took over. So making distinctions among Israelites and saying that's where the,
right, we cross the border. It's only the returnese. It's only the chosen. It's only the
sectarians. It's only the kumranites. It's, so that's exactly part of the pre-Goi game, right?
Because when you have the Goi, this game is over. Why? Because you have one, right? You have one
wall that distinguish between every and any Jew and every and any non-Jew. And so it's totally
exclusive toward non-Jews, but it's totally inclusive, right? Toward Jews, right? And Israelite,
who is sinful, is still an Israelite. So an uncircumcised Jew, right? An uncircumcised Jew
for Jisifus, for example, or for Philo, is not really an Israelite, right? He's not one of us,
but for the rabbis, since he's not a Gentile, he's a Jew, right? So all these options that you
mentioned, without entering into the intricacies, are all possible before the total binary dichotomous
Jew Gentile distinction kicks in. Wow. I want to add something to this more distant perspective.
Actually, what we are doing here philosophically is questioning the very binary division of
human beings. Everywhere we point to, I mean, in every stage along this way,
there were distinctions. They were always dependent on specific circumstances,
on specific political conditions, ideological superstructures, and on discursive infrastructures
of the language that people use. You can always imagine at least, even if you don't know, you
can always imagine that they came into being, these distinctions, came into being in a very
particular context, that they survived through very particular efforts of the groups involved.
And if you don't like them, you can roll them back. I mean, they are not given these distinctions,
and here we are speaking not only on Jew and Gentiles, but black and white, red and yellow,
whatever are the underlying divisions in society. You can always roll them back,
if you think about them historically, and you can always take them out, you must actually,
take them out of their status as a given, as something that is given by the nature of human
beings. They are not the nature of human beings. They are the products of history,
and we are interested in this particular historical. So in historicizing them, we're
trying to de-essentialize them, and to show that what seem to be a force of nature, like rivers
and mountains, are actually a part of a historical development, and we have to think about them as
a historical development, rather than as a kind of a given division. But Derek, can I say something
about the table? I don't know if you want to show it again. Yeah, yeah, yeah, please.
Because it needs to be, we can't just leave it that way. We have to see.
So anyway, basically what you're showing here in a quite meticulous way is two kind of revolutions.
The revolution of making the ethnic from simply peoples, nations, to foreign nations,
making this distinction, but still only on the political level of nations, rather than individuals.
And then the other revolution is the privatization or individuation of the distinction,
where it becomes a distinction not just among between nations, but between individuals.
So that's basically the two revolutions that we're showing, but two reservations here are crucial.
A, it's not really linear, although it seems like linear, because there are different traditions that
kind of mingle, and B, there's the linguistic conventions, but then there's the different
materializations and usages of these conventions. So for example, to use ethnic, to name individuals
rather than collectives, is not Paul's innovation. I'm doing a promo here, okay?
Okay. It's not really Paul's innovation. We traced it already in the first and second books
of Maccabees, etc., and in Kumran, in the Dead Sea Scrolls. But he was the first one to materialize
it, to use it, right, in a systematic way in his kind of theology, in his system, in a way that
is unprecedented. So he took the ball and put it in the field. He took the ball, so there was a ball,
he took the ball and invented the game. Interesting. Wow, I can't wait to obviously get to this,
because Paul's an interesting character, of course, historically speaking, and what he does is
a big no-no to a lot of people, too. So what I did, what I picked up in what you two gentlemen
said here recently, before I continue reading, and that I think is so important for our audience
who's watching, not only does your book kind of let you kind of see the details or the rules of
the game for others, but that tells you how these authors viewed themselves. And by showing who the
others are, how they viewed others, nations and people groups and all, it tells you how they viewed
in their current situation the state of Israel, so to speak, or their own, I don't mean state,
as in like the modern sense, I mean, not anachronistically, but like their own bubble group,
their religious affiliation and cultural affiliation, and how that is different from the others. And
they're very specific. That's why later on it gets real easy. They just say, ah, you're Jew or Gentile,
and at this time it's more complicated and not as easy to say it's this or that, and it becomes
more nuanced. And I think that's important. So Septuagint Convention, you mentioned that the
term for people, and I'm horrible with Greek because I don't know too much about it, Laos, I think,
Laos, is used systematically in the LXX to distinguish God's people, Israel, from the
surrounding Gentile nations. And this falls in line with the pre-existing tendency in Greek.
However, this rule is not without exception. For instance, Exodus 19.5 through 6 calls Israel
a holy nation, not holy people. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant,
you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples, for all the earth is mine, and you shall
be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Goi, these are the words that you shall speak to
the people of Israel. In Genesis 17.4, Abram is told that he'll be a father to a multitude of nations
with the same expression found in Genesis 48.19 regarding the offspring of Ephraim.
This is also translated as a fullness of nations, as quoted by Paul in Romans 11.25,
which gets rendered fullness of Gentiles. Without getting deep into Paul, which will be the subject
of the next episode, and I can't wait to talk about some of this stuff with you guys and hear
your thoughts, how are we to understand these references to the descendants of the patriarchs
as nations, and how might the understanding of these passages have changed during the Hellenistic
period? I want to add one caveat because that was my writing. Let me emphasize that it's important
because on the next show, maybe we can get into what Paul maybe is doing with these terms and what
maybe the author of Genesis 48.19 is doing with the multitude of nations, the fullness of the
nations in Ephraim's seed. Can you tell us a little bit of like what's going on in just the
Hebrew context, not in Paul's? Okay, so there's many issues here, and of course we have to discuss
separately the Hebrew tradition and then the Greek tradition. So let's start with the Hebrew
tradition, okay? Abraham is Avhamon Goim, is the father of the multitude of nations, okay? And Goim
here is definitely a political concept. It's about the nations, and the idea of the book of
Genesis is exactly that, that Abraham is the father of different nations because Ishmael
and Esau are considered not just as individuals, but as fathers of different peoples, of nations,
and that's the way of the book of Genesis to kind of go back and forth between its ethnocentric
concept of the Israelites, Jacob and the tribes, and the universal concept of the different nations,
right? And the origin of nations because God is the God of the universe and he created the world
and the different nations. So Abraham is both, both the father of Isaac and Jacob and the Israelite
and the father of many nations, and of course Paul, another promo, right? And that will take
good advantage of this duplication, right? But what we have to understand is that our kind of
tendency to read, right? To read it in an individualized way that Abraham is the father of Gentiles,
right? Rather than of nations is not just due to Paul, but also due to the fact that we read this,
you know, Esau and Ishmael and the others as individuals, but the ancient interpreters read
them as, you know, as kind of ethnic entities. So Ishmael was an ethnic entity and Esau was an
ethnic entity for the ancient interpreters. So they read it politically. Interesting. Adi?
Just to add one thing that in the biblical context, the use of synonym is very common
and in various texts. It's not that when synonym, two words are used as synonym,
they are exactly the same everywhere else they appear. They can appear in different
connotations, but there is a basic, there is a very great flexibility of the language in creating
these synonyms. And Gentile, Goi, and Nation, Uma, and people, Am, these three words can serve
as synonyms very, very often. So indeed, there is a difference, gradual difference that the
LXX, how do you, excuse me, it's hard for me to say this, the translation of the 70s,
let's continue. So it consolidates there, but there is a slight tendency to
refine, let's say, more uses of nations, the word Uma, Umot, or people, then the use of
of, then the use of, no, even this is not true. Even this is not true. So it is spread all over
there, all over the place. And when you find the words in the Bible isolated from its context,
you won't be able to tell whether they speak about Israel or any other nation.
Interesting. So like, can you break that down a little more in terms of what the Septuagint and
the Hebrew is doing? Because that's important. So let me say a word about the Septuagint.
What we have in Hebrew is, as Adi said, is all kinds of synonyms that, you know, function
basically, you know, in a, similarly, we have Goy and we have Am and we have a Holy Goy, Goy Kaddosh,
right? Which of course is the Israelite. So when we get to the Septuagint, we have a tendency
to make a distinction between Goy and Am, that Goyim, okay, Etne is the others, right? And Am Laos
is the Israelite. Now, it doesn't work there perfectly because they have to play with the,
you know, with the synonyms in the Hebrew Bible, but they tend to do that. So while you do have
sometimes for Israel Laos and sometimes Ethnos, for example, Ethnos Hagion is Goy Kaddosh for the
Israelite, you will never find Laoi in the in the Septuagint as, you know, as nations, okay? Because
Laos is the word for Israel, for Am, for Am Israel. So there you already find a tendency to make
stronger divisions, which come, A, from, you know, the tendency to kind of make the divisions
more solid and be from what Adi said, which is a kind of, you know, interpretive effort
to make distinctions between synonyms, right? Because the Holy Scripture don't say the same
thing in different words. So there must be a meaning to these different, but what you don't find there
is a distinction on an individual level, okay? So Laoi and Laos and Ethnos, all these are
distinction on the political level, okay, of political units. The next revolution, the crucial
revolution will be when this distinction will be individualized and when, you know,
authors will be able to say, these individuals are ethnic, that's when the Goyim are really born,
not with the distinction between political entities, but in the distinction between
different individuals saying, you there, this group, you are ethnic, right? Right. That's where
the Goy is really born, but for that we'll have to wait to... That was really well said and let me
ask you guys just one of your thoughts of the Genesis 48-19 passage when he talks to Ephraim
and Ephraim is blessed, that he, you know, he crosses his hands and he blesses Ephraim and he
says, you will be a fullness of the nations or, yeah, fullness of Gentiles, fullness of the nations,
and I don't know if the term Gentiles, because we get anachronisms, we put onto this, what does he
mean? Just like, what is the... I know there's probably different interpretations here and I
know that's not your specialty, but like, what is he saying when you're, like, you will be in you,
the fullness of the nations? What do you think he means? Yeah, but listen, that's a pretty, you know,
regular biblical blessing of, you know, your blessing will be, you know, for everyone.
We have to remember that the Bible, the book of Genesis and the Bible in general has a
very, I don't know, a very basic kind of, you know, cosmopolitan, you know, attitude or we're
all creatures of one God, right? We all come from First Adam, we all come from one family,
so we tend to forget that, right? Because we think in such a kind of Jew,
Goy, right, ethnocentric manner, but these blessings of, you know, to all the different
groups, different nations, different, right, is something pretty regular in the book of Genesis,
because it never forgets the Genesis of all these, you know, groups.
That's important, because I guess what I'm hinting at with that is there are some that interpret
the Ephraim's descendants literally, like as if, like, there's an exclusive idea that only Ephraim's
descendants will be the fullness of all these nations, and they take that and run to our later
next show, Paul, and they think Paul's literally using this like the Gentiles are Ephraim's literal
seed in a literal way, and yeah. Yeah, but we read that already as part of the history of
reception of Paul, that were used in very many, you know, many, very many ways to kind of,
to sanction and to, you know, to make an election of different groups, you know,
legitimate. So that's for us already the history of interpretation, history of reception of Paul,
where many groups, you know, identify themselves in these verses. So we as historians, you know,
kind of see that as part of a large, you know, a never-ending move of identifying yourself in
your own group in, you know, in the scripture. In fact, you know, the history of interpretation
is embedded in the translations. That's obvious. I mean, translation is an interpretation of the
text, but interpretations of phrases and idioms and words are already embedded in the Bible itself.
There are so many parallels in which you see that a later text is actually an interpretation of
previous texts, and the blessings are a particular site where this happens. So the blessings of
Moses to Israel can be read as an interpretation of the blessing of Jacob to Israel and etc. So
there is no, I don't think that you can really draw such a big lesson from this particular verse.
That's a really good point. I think that's amazing to see. And plus the cultural context
that Paul's in, goodness gracious, it's, it's nothing like what we would think back in Genesis.
So to be so dogmatic on that would be, in my opinion, a mistake. Okay, Philo and Josephus,
we're getting closer, guys. Here is what you say about Philo and Josephus, use of the term ethne.
Central first century authors such as Philo and Josephus, Paul Sr. and Junior Contemporaries,
respectively, never use ethne in this new meaning. The hundreds of times they use the term all
maintain its old biblical meaning of peoples. What are some examples from Philo of his usage
of ethne? Let's stop there. Yeah, no, Philo uses ethne, for example, when he talks about the Greeks
that he live, you know, among. So he think in a political manner, just like the Septuagint, right?
In a political manner, and that was the ordinary usage in this time. That's why Paul is so unique,
because in the same period, right, writer like Philo and Josephus never think about ethne in an
individualized manner, right? That for us, it was just a kind of indication of how exceptional
Paul was in his systematic use of ethne as Gentiles. But I'm again running ahead of myself.
It's hard not to, because we're in a time now with Josephus and Philo. It's not your fault.
You have to kind of comment on that, because we're in the first century. And so these all three
of these guys are running on the ground in the same time just about. They're all Hellenized Jews
or Judeans, and they're all writing in Greek and in a way thinking in Greek. Well,
just if it's less than Philo, but they're all, you know, internalized Greek concept.
So the comparison is really, you know, inevitable. Yes, sir. Okay. Did you want to comment on that,
Adi? Well, when we move to Josephus, I would like to, if you want to move from Philo Philo to
Josephus. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you don't mind. Yes, sir. So I think that one of the interesting
things about Josephus is that he is a much more, because he's a historian, because he's a political
actor, because he was a general and, you know, all the things that he did in the war against the
war. He was general, but still. I think it was a great success. He saved his life and
he saved us the history of the period. So some say he was a traitor, though. He was a traitor.
Yes, he was a traitor, and it was a great success. Both are true.
I think that his contribution to our understanding of the history of the period, not only the Jews,
I mean, the history of the period in general is just, you know, incredible. Anyway, he's thinking
in political terms, more than in theological terms. And although there are some elements,
some theological elements there, I mean, he has to be okay with the theological story.
The basic intuitions and interests are political. And you can see that in the way he uses the two
main words that he has, the etne and alofilo, the two main words that he used for others,
for strangers, for not us, they are used in a very flexible way. They can describe enemies.
They can describe all the enemies of Israel or Judea. They can describe specific enemies in
a specific situation, in a specific battleground. They can describe subgroups within, you know,
a general, what we would call today, an ethnic group, and so forth. So I think the flexibility
here is even more prominent than in Philo. And he still has no problem in describing,
in great many details and in very sophisticated way, the specificity of the Judaic
polytheism. He has a concept of a political unit already in, against Apion. And it's very clear
for him that it is a very distinct and excellent, ideally speaking, when he idealized, of course,
a political community. But it is not the distinction, the exceptionality of this community
is never based on the polarization of the world between Jews and Gentiles.
So exceptional, that's a very important point for us, a crucial point for us. Exceptionalism
and the binary Jew-Goy distinction are two different things. So when we reconstruct the
pre-Goy kind of discourses, we see all kinds of, you know, discourses of exceptionalism,
that we're special, that we're unique, right? But they're not binary. So people tell us,
but how can you say that the book of Jubilees in the second century BCE has no concept of
Goy? It is so, you know, chauvinistic and so, you know, yes. But so he makes distinctions and even
fears, you know, and very strong distinctions. But there's different kinds of distinctions.
And he don't have this binary, right, dichotomous, total way of the, so he makes, for example,
distinctions among nations, which will become totally irrelevant for the rabbis. Or he kind of,
he's a cheddarer, the book of Jubilees. Why is he such a cheddarer, right? Using all these different,
you know, ways to describe the nations, because he doesn't have yet this very strong, unified,
universalized concept of Jews versus Gentiles. So we don't argue that would be a
crucial mistake to think that we argued that before the Jew Goy distinction, you know,
kind of won the day, all nations were one happy family. That's not our argument. We argued that
there were different ways of making distinctions and that there were much more flexible and multiple
and, you know, ways of making this distinction before the Goy took over and this distinction won
the day. You mentioned, and this isn't in our template, you mentioned first Enoch that I thought
was really interesting, the animal apocalypse and how he is describing these nations in the
political sense. But they all kind of transform into the white bull. And I know there's arguments
like on what this interpretation means, but it sounds very, and I'm not trying to say it is Pauline,
but it's similar in a way like, like you're transforming and be all everybody becomes Abraham,
if you were like, they all end up. But, but Derek, of course, it sounds to you Pauline.
No, no, no, seriously, wait, because Paul is part of this apocalyptic Judaism, you know, tradition.
Yes, sir. First, Enoch is Pauline. Paul is Enochian.
Seriously, he's part of this tradition. And what we argue is that this animal apocalypse
tradition is pre-goy. What does it mean that it's pre-goy? Not that it does not make distinctions
or that it does not say harsh things about the others. Of course, it does. And so the other
nations are predators and they're impure animals, but they're multiple. Okay, they're multiple,
they're different animals, different nations, and these differences matter. So what you lack
is exactly this binary distinction. And why is it so important? Because that's what allows the
animal apocalypse to create this universalistic apocalyptic vision that they all become white
pools, right? So it's exactly this lack of binary division that allow this apocalyptic tradition
that Paul is part of. Yes, well said. I think that's fascinating. And, you know,
if you go read that, whoever's watching this, really go check it out, because some nations are
hyenas and pigs and, and like, and they're not, it's not a good thing. No, no, no, no. So that's
exactly the distinction we make. You can be very nasty toward the nations and still not have a
unified concept of that all these nations are basically one. Okay. And that allows you a flexibility
that the Jew-goy, you know, discourse would not allow you. If I may on the one thing on Enoch and
move on is that when he talks about them all becoming a white bull, I find it interesting
that they can talk about these nations kind of in a nasty way, yet they're optimistic. They have
like an optimistic in where it's OK. God will eventually he's going to take care of everyone
because he is the God of the whole planet. Everyone he's he rules everyone, even and even in that
there is the use the word chauvinistic. I just say exclusive like it's it's not contradictory to say
exclusive and universal. And this is both. It's the same as saying both.
I would like to add a word about nestiness. Yes. So, so Enoch can be nasty.
But there is nothing about the structure of his parable that is nasty. Because if you take
only only nice animals, you know, you bring the lion and the tiger and all the beautiful
elephants, all the beautiful animals that say you just think about them and it will be the same
you know, it will be the same message.
The rabbi don't have to be nasty at all. They can be, you know, full of love and
mercy to everyone. They don't have to be nasty. It's the distinction, the structural
and the institutionalization of the discursive structure that does the work for them by,
you know, making the difference. And it is very important to understand the power of
the discourse when it structures reality in such a way.
Your opening book, your opening of your book is very interesting because there's a prayer
by a rabbi and he says, I think you that I am not a coy. It's like, yeah, like this is legit,
but that's anachronistic to put that into what we're talking about. And I'm learning so much
from you. So thank you so much, guys. I really am. Did you want to comment on that before I move on?
I just want to say that Adi here is on something really, really crucial for us that,
you know, when we compare, for example, the book of Jubilees from second century BCE to the Mishnah
in the second century CE, we see that the book of Jubilees is much nastier toward, you know,
the others than the Mishnah. So we say, huh, that's interesting. Does this mean that, you know,
that the Mishnah is kind of, you know, more inclusive? And then we figured that again,
the concept of the coy, you know, made this nasty remarks redundant, unnecessary, because the coy,
the gentile is a self-explanatory concept. You don't have to add all these, you know,
all these definitions and curses and, you know, adjectives. You don't need adjectives anymore,
because the gentile is, you know, does the work for you. That's really what we're,
you know, what we're trying to show, that again, the discourse, the rules of the game, right?
Then what's important here, rather than the specific content?
Interesting. Thank you so much. And it makes a lot of sense.
Maccabees, let's talk about Maccabees. Here's what you say about the usage of
ethnic and the Maccabeean literature. But as Seth Swartz shows, the nations roundabout
is a biblical phrase referring to the nations that circle Judea. The fact that the author
interprets the gatherings of the ethnic, and I butchered this name, is it Galad? G-A-L-A-A-D?
G-A-L-A-D. G-A-L-A-D.
G-A-L-A-D. As an assembly of the nations roundabout does not leave much doubt as to the national
context of First Maccabees. Ethnate, even when special local enemies, rather than the whole
nations are referred to. Here's one example from First Maccabees 538. Judas sent men to spy out
the camp and they reported to him, all the Gentiles around us have gathered to him. It is a very
large force. Can you elaborate on the term nations is used in the Maccabeean literature?
G-A-L-A-D. I'll just say that this is exactly where we make a distinction between a linguistic
semantic shift and then the way it is utilized by different authors. So First Maccabees in the
second century BCE already know the individualized use of ethnic and he may know it from the Greek,
he may know it from the Hebrew because First Maccabees was written originally in Hebrew and we
know that in Hebrew too this linguistic semantic change occurs. But he still thinks in a political
manner. So even when he talks about ethnic in a privatized manner, he still think about these
individuals as kind of representing collective. You think about them in a military political
context. So the linguistic change is there but it is not yet materialized to depoliticize the Gentiles.
When Paul will come into the scene, he will use this linguistic possibility in a totally novel way.
So it's not the linguistic, the neuro linguistic possibility of talking about
ethnic and individualized way that interests us, but the way it is utilized.
G-A-L-A-D. Yeah, that was well said. I hope that everyone watching this is going,
what, I can't wait to see what Paul, what happens with Paul because, and then not just Paul, but
Paul, then the rabbis because you guys get to see what happens and it's an interesting thing,
a lot happens. And then the crooks, the riddle about the possible relationship between what
happens in Paul and what happens in rabbinic literature. I look forward to it. Christine Hayes,
Dr. Christine Hayes is a very well respected scholar and you seem to have a lot of mutual
respect with some mutual criticism as well. You say that she fails to call into question the very
category of the Gentile even when dealing with biblical and other pre-rubinic sources.
On the other hand, Hayes has critiqued your work around the five minute mark of this video and
there's a video on YouTube where she's critiquing at least some of her points on what you guys suggest.
By alleging that you confine yourselves to a single term goi and that contrary to your views,
the Bible does in fact treat non-Israelites as a single static universalized differentiated class,
unquote. Hayes summarizes her presentation by proposing a synchronic approach by which both
biblical and rabbinic literature share an undifferentiated macro level concept of the
other, but she believes that the differences between the biblical and rabbinic outlook on the
other is merely a difference in emphasis and degree rather than a difference in kind. Could
you take some time to address her criticisms? I would like to offer a short response and I
will let Isha explain it. I want to go back to my metaphor of the game. Can you also spell out what
her position is with your metaphor to kind of differentiate? I think it will be very, very
clear. So let's go back to the game metaphor. Hayes is talking about us as someone who is
watching a soccer game and then is watching a football game and says, well, these are bunch of
people playing against each other, two groups playing against each other with a ball. It's just
the same game. That's the difference because she sees some general structure in a ball and so the
ball is somehow moving in the field because people kick it or throw it, etc., and just the same. It's
basically the same structure holds and we say, no, no, there's something very different here.
Yeah, no, totally. I mean, look, let me say, Christine Hayes is a wonderful scholar and
I love her scholarship and the differences between us are real. I mean, there is a real
methodological debate here because she, for her, these kind of distinctions,
Israelite Jews and others, they were always there and we say already in the Bible, etc.,
and we say yes, but that's not enough. That's exactly Adi's metaphor of the game because there
are different kinds of distinctions, of making distinctions, and the Goi is really a novel way
of making distinctions that is unlike the biblical one. It's true, the Bible has the
foreigner, but the foreigner is not the Goi because there is the Gel, the stranger, who is not an
Israelite and who is not a foreigner, but a kind of a third category in between and the rabbis
would not let these in-betweens to exist. They will have to argue that each of these categories
fall in one of these binary divisions. So true, there were always distinctions between us and others,
but we want to be much more meticulous in the different kinds of distinctions, and we argue that
the Goi is such a novel distinction that it deserves a study of itself, that it deserves to be called
a new categorical kind of innovation. And the other thing is that we don't treat the Goi as a
word. For us, the word Goi is simply a marker to a kind of
seismographical changes that happen below the ground, and we need markers to see it,
right? Because we can't see a discourse, right? We can't see the rules of the game,
right? We have to reconstruct them from very many
stuff that we can see on the ground, on the field. So the Goi for us is a marker, but there's many,
very many markers in the book through which we try to reconstruct this seismographical event,
these changes. We look, for example, at rules of impurity and how they change, or the ritual
of conversion and how it changes. We use all kinds of markers to identify this
change between different frameworks and how this specific framework of the Goi came into being.
I have to ask, oh, sorry, sorry. I just want to add one thing, because I insisted on the metaphor
of the game. I want to say it's not really a game, or maybe it's a very serious game. No,
it's a very serious game, because when the game changes, the entire theology changes.
It has, and the entire politics or the political spectrum of political option changes,
and this is something that I would like to discuss in our next session about the
theological and political aspect or geopolitical aspects of the change that follow this, what I
call the transformation of the discursive infrastructure. Wow. So stay tuned. Yeah,
you definitely want to check out the next episode. So this is off record here, if you will, just
asking this question that I think is important. We learned a lot about the distinction of otherness
and knowing how the idea that's coming very soon, a binary distinction, is for sure coming.
And that lets you kind of see the perspective, since there's no rulebook to the game,
and it's not really a game, but nonetheless, using your analogy, there's no rulebook. You
got to find all the pieces, and then you got to try to collectively figure out how it works.
And you guys take a magnifying glass like I've never seen and really zoom in, and it was really
well done. My question would be, and this is simple, I know that you're probably going to laugh and go,
of course, outsiders could join, but there are groups today that argue that, and you could
probably think of a few that you are aware of, but I know groups that argue that say theologically
or biblically that like outsiders, unless you were actual descendants of Abraham's seed,
you were never allowed, intended, permitted to convert and become an Israelite and join
the nation of Israel. And you guys cut through that whole thing in your book, like a hot knife
through butter, because you talk about, I believe it was Chronicles, second or first Chronicles,
which is a post exile book, and everyone that was located in the land of Israel were considered
Israel. So when people come along and they say stuff like, all Israel will be saved,
that can have a theological implication if whoever, including outsiders, strangers, foreigners,
or whoever might be able to join themselves, is the border between holy and non-holy accessible
for the non-holy. Can an outsider, can a foreigner, can they join? I know there are places where it
seems like it's closed, but that's probably from a fundamentalist side. Not necessarily. There's
places that it's more porous, and there are places that it's more fixed, and there's sources in the
Bible, and we look at the Bible as a multiplicity of sources, and even at the Pentateuch as a
multiplicity of sources. As historians, that's how we look at it. So we see some sources that will
look at the border as more fixed, for example, priestly sources, and then we'll see other sources
where the borders are more porous. So for example, for Ezra Nechemaya, the borders are more fixed,
and for the Book of Chronicles, it is much more open, and these were debates between different
ideological groups. So if you ask, who is Israel, and how can you join, we will ask for whom, for
which book, for which group, in which period. So we can't offer a generalized answer. That's
exactly the kind of historicized glasses that we put on. As we will do today, there are so many
groups, it's there are religious and political affiliation and dominations, etc. This is what
determines their answer to the question, and we must historicize the question and the answer.
And historicizing the question would mean also to understand that the relationship between
stranger and impure is very unstable. It comes into being at a certain point, it is very important
for certain texts, and it is not that important for other texts. Yeah, that was, and it's so easy
for you guys to answer that question, because you have read this so well, and you guys really have
a deep knowledge, unlike anything I've seen, there was one quote in Leviticus where foreigner
can sacrifice, or I think is a foreigner or stranger. Yeah, that for the people that I
associate once in a while, I don't know if they get it in, you know, looking at Jonah,
which in the Book of Jonah, in the third chapter, we see the king of Ninima, that is,
he is in sackcloth and ashes repentance to the God of Israel. And I say, who is the king
of Ninima? And they want to say, this group wants to say, they got to be Israelites somehow,
because they cannot have a foreigner or a stranger or some leader of another country
sacrificing to the God of Israel, they can't see it. And you guys show how, look, the Bible is a
multiplicity of, you know, attitudes, ethnic, political, theological, and the history of
interpretation is a constant attempt to kind of find a unified message in this, you know,
multiplicity and in this, you know, chaos. That's exactly the history of interpretation,
you know, finding the one key that will open all these various different texts.
Ladies and gentlemen, you heard two of my favorite right now.
Adio, fear and is she is she?
Yes, I is shy, Rosenstein. And they have written the book called Goi, Israel's multiple others
and the birth of the Gentile Oxford studies in the Abrahamic religion. Go down in the
description, guys, you've got to get the book, get on the same page. In fact, try to get this book,
read it before we start our next episode, so you guys can travel with us through Paul and the
rabbinic literature of the rabbis and what's going on right in the first second century.
Like we'll try to discuss the history behind it. A chapter a day. Yes, we want to try and get this
done. I really, really appreciate you guys. This was very scholarly. Here is free education,
ladies and gentlemen. You guys can help them out by seeing the description and get the book.
And I really do appreciate your time. I really do. Thank you. Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen,
do not forget, we are MythVision.
