Who is theöd
YOU
WHAT
YOU
WHAT
YOU
WHAT
YOU
What
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
You see who I have on the screen, don't you?
If you don't know who he is, you might want to check him out on YouTube.
He's debated some big names.
William Lane Craig used to be a hero figure of mine within Christianity and not saying
anything bad.
I'm just saying I'm no longer a Christian.
So he's not one of the guys I look to to find out information, so to speak.
And Graham Oppie, Dr. Oppie, has actually debated him and has had many series of conversations
throughout YouTube.
And I said to myself, how can I be MythVision if I don't have Dr. Oppie?
Come on and actually explain what atheism is, naturalism, materialism, like we need to get
into these conversations.
I'm not a philosopher.
So Dr. Oppie, if you don't mind, tell us a little bit about your credentials and then
I'd like to press us into the conversation.
Okay.
So very quickly, I'm currently a professor of philosophy at Monash University in Melbourne,
Australia.
So I've been at Monash for the past 25 years and I've been a professor for about the last
15 years.
My field of expertise is philosophy of religion.
So primarily what I teach at Monash these days is either philosophy of religion or metaphysics.
Thank you so much for sharing that with us, ladies and gentlemen.
Be sure to go check out his Twitter.
You can follow him and you can't message him, so don't try and harass the guy.
But he's on Twitter as well as his books.
He's gave me a fair warning, but I told him, I'm afraid some of my audience members are
brighter than the typical.
There's going bat for my guys who've watched MythVision.
Some of these books are seriously heavy.
This is a highly recommended one for the general audience of the public, if you will.
Like almost anyone who's got a basic understanding of things can grasp this book, atheism, the
basics.
But if you really want to do a deep dive on this, he has plenty of other material.
I absolutely recommend it.
But listen, actions speak louder than words.
My words don't mean anything here.
Let's listen to the conversation today.
You tell me if you're interested in checking out his book.
So Dr. Oppie, let's start off real simple.
There has to be a God, right?
Like, duh, like, how are we here?
So it's interesting that you say that.
Like, there are plenty of people in my family, like in my extended family, like my various
uncles who say exactly that to me when we get together for family gatherings.
And I just say not.
It doesn't have to be a God.
In fact, I think we can explain everything that needs explaining without supposing that
there's a God.
And so since we can do without God, we should.
So a lot of people, when they, and I'm jumping, by the way, we might bounce around, but this
is what, you know, this is just major points I hear all the time.
But Dr. Oppie, don't don't you look around in the universe and it's like this giant clock.
It almost reminds us of a giant brain.
It's a mind of its own and it looks like there's a, you know, look at the temperature outside
and we're at the right distance and everything's just right for life.
Don't you think we were created with a purpose and that God made this and there's a mind
behind all this?
Okay.
So to respond to that kind of argument, that kind of design argument, so fairly long story.
So it's unclear where I should start and what you would like, what you'd like me to
try to explain.
So one kind of thing that you might be thinking about is that kind of animals are a bit like
clocks, right?
And there's so much complexity in animals that just looking at the animals, there's
got to be some explanation for the complexity and the best explanation that we can come
up with is that they were made that way by God.
And that's a kind of story that might have really gripped people more than 200 years
ago.
But after Darwin, there's a kind of different story that's really broadly accepted in the
scientific community that if you wind the clock back far enough, there are none of these
complex creatures and then there's a very long process of biological evolution that
takes us from a state where there are none of these creatures to the state where there
are lots of them.
So that kind of complexity isn't evidence for God.
So that's one kind of aspect of this.
Different kind of aspect.
And more recently, people have thought that there's a kind of argument from physics.
If you look at the universe and you look at certain very general parameters that characterize
the universe, if those parameters have been a little bit different, then the universe just
wouldn't have existed in the form that we know it either it would have kind of collapsed
in on itself almost as soon as it began, or it would have blown apart so rapidly that
it would be basically just empty space.
And so you might think that somebody, some sort of mind, chose the parameters to take
just the values that they do.
Now, response to that, well, there's a question, there are various questions.
One question is whether really there's no explanation from within physics for the values
of the parameters.
Put that to one side, because that's really just a question for future physics.
Suppose it's true that there are these values and they happen to be just right for, not
just for life, but for all kinds of things.
There wouldn't be stars, if for example, unless the values were just right.
Question.
When were the values set?
There's two possibilities, they've always been set, or there was a point where there
was this transition from when the values weren't set to when they were.
Now, I think if there's a transmission point, then that really just means that it's a chance.
Assuming that there's all these values that they could have taken, and there's just this
transition, they weren't fixed, and all of a sudden they are, presumably that's just
because there's this chance falling into particular values.
Now, that's a story that both theists and naturalists can accept, but it gives no advantage
to either side.
So, the other possibility is that they've always been fixed from whatever the beginning
point is.
They've always been fixed at that value.
But then there's two possibilities, either, or two things you might say, either they've
always been fixed because they had to take those values, or else, again, it's just chance
because it's right at the very beginning.
There's nothing that you can peel to that's earlier that would explain them.
So according to me, there's no advantage here for theists.
Naturalists and theists can tell the same story about why the constants fall into the
range that they do.
It's either because they had to, or because they've fallen into it by chance, and that's
the story either way.
Interesting.
Okay.
You have said before that you were a materialist, and I've actually interviewed a previous
philosopher, PhD, who said materialism is not possible.
He's coming from an idealist philosophical background, which means, inevitably, you're
going to have a disagreement there, so he does not see it as plausible.
Would you mind, and I know this is a huge question you've written books on that are
seriously complex on this, but is materialism a plausible explanation for the universe,
and does it make more sense to you than any other position?
So I guess there's a bunch of labels here, materialism, physicalism, naturalism, and there
are fine distinctions that you could draw between them.
I would prefer to call myself a naturalist rather than a materialist, but it's not really
going to make any difference for the purposes of this conversation.
So let's just run with materialism.
I take it that the kind of best overall story to tell is one on which there's a causal network,
all the kind of nodes in the network, depending how we think about the causal relation,
either material objects or material events, and that's what the kind of materialist position
should amount to, that in the causal domain, basically everything that kind of figures
in it is material.
I would prefer to say there's a kind of natural domain in everything and it's natural, but
it doesn't matter.
Now, I think that that's the best option.
You could go for a different kind of view, maybe, although I think it's quite hard to
really make sense of it.
A kind of view on which there are non-material minds that are distributed in some kind of
space, somehow connected to one another, somehow given perceptions, and there's a story either
that each of the minds makes up for itself or that they all make up collectively about
a network of material causes, but that story is way more complicated than the one that
just supposes that we're parts of material reality and that we interact with it because
you've ended up with, for every bit of detail in the kind of materialist story, there's
some corresponding detail in the idealist story, the bit about how the world's constructed
in the minds, but you've also got the minds and you've also got to have a source for
all of the inputs to the minds, otherwise you've got the worst possible theory, really.
You've got no explanation where anything comes from, that is, where any of the perceptions
come from.
On the materialist story, it's kind of straightforward.
If you see a tree, there are photons hitting your eye, there's processing in your brain.
That processing in your brain just is you're seeing the tree.
On the idealist story, you have this perception of a tree, what's its cause?
Everything should have a cause, so you've got to put one in, but once you put the causes
in and the causes of the, that's what puts it into your mind, now we're just going to
compare that with there's a tree, there's photons, there's processing in your brain,
and that's you're perceiving, and it seems to me clear that it's going to turn out that
the materialist story is way more simple and plausible than the alternative.
I really appreciate you answering these questions for me, and I know that some of these are
deep diving already that I'm throwing at you.
Something that comes to mind, I've been looking at these, I'm trying to find a natural explanation
for everything, and I openly say this, and maybe I'd like you're correcting me in particular.
I'm asking you as a philosopher to maybe help me out.
I admit, and I've said this on air, and maybe I should rephrase this, but I'm asking for
your correction.
I am purposely biased on looking for a natural explanation, because I always tried to look
for supernatural ones, or assumed causals, if you will, agency and things that potentially
didn't have agency, or whatever it might be.
I was always exploring and saying, God did it, or it was this, or it was that, a miracle,
this, this, that.
Now I'm on the other spectrum, and I'm purposely looking for physical, material, natural, if
you will, causal relations for things, explanations to make better sense, people don't rise from
the dead.
Why do you say they don't, Eric?
Isn't it possible they could?
I guess, I don't want to commit a fallacy and say it's not possible, but I've never
seen anything like that.
So why do people believe that Jesus rose from the dead, for example?
And since you're a philosopher in religion, maybe you can help me, am I on the right track
of trying to say, maybe there's a natural explanation for why people believed that this
guy rose from the dead, or X, Y, and Z might have happened, or you name it.
So I think it might be useful to distinguish between two different kinds of questions here.
So one question is, supposing that you're a materialist or a naturalist, how you should
think about things, just when you're thinking about things for yourself, working out what
you're going to think.
So take this thing that there are people who believe that Jesus rose from the dead.
So what kind of explanation do you really need to seek for that?
Not much, because the outlines of the story of why they believe it are going to be straightforward.
They believe it because other people who they trusted told them that it was so, and that's
why they believe it.
And there's no mystery in that.
From a kind of naturalistic point of view, that bit of the story is easy.
Now, you might think, if we trace it right back, what happened back in 1933 AD?
And the answer to that is that we've got such patchy evidence that it's very hard to tell.
What would have been really nice would have been if people had kept diaries in Jerusalem
in 1933 AD, like everybody kept diaries, and they wrote down everything that happened
and we could go and inspect them and we could get 10,000 opinions about what happened during
that year and then we could try to use that to work out where the truth lay.
And of course, even then, in that case, there'd be lots of disagreement in the diaries about
what happened and so on, but you'd have more chance of working out from that.
What were the kind of publicly observable events that actually happened in the city
at the time?
But we don't have that.
We've got a tiny number of texts, it's unclear, there's some dispute about when they were
written, but it seems pretty clear that they were written quite a long time after the event.
I mean, there's an exception of some of Paul's letters are fairly early, but they're pretty
skimpy on details, the kinds of details that you can get out of the Gospels.
So the kind of short answer is we don't really know, but there's an important other thing
to say here, which is some stuff about how easy it is for lots of people to reach consensus
on beliefs that are just false.
There's plenty of recent examples in some ways you might think that it's easier now
than it was back then because of the internet, but I think the same principles are going
to apply.
So there are some people who have beliefs that are false and they spread them.
They're convincing, they tell other people, they might sincerely believe what they're
saying, but they've just got the wrong end of the pineapple.
And some story like that is going to be the right story, but there's no about the bits
of the Gospels that are supernatural.
They ultimately, at some point, somebody came to a false belief and told other people and
the other people believed it and it became part of their tradition.
And in the end, when it was written down, it was written down, right?
And now this is not the view of a kind of biblical expert.
You can, if you get someone like Bart Ehrman or whoever on, they'll be deeply invested
in the kind of scholarly disputes about all kinds of things, questions about which parts
of those texts are kind of original and which bits were kind of later additions or forgeries
or whatever and so on.
But the actual putting it together and making a kind of definitive account of what happened
in around 33 AD seems to me to be a fairly hopeless project.
If you took, like I have, I'm in a school of philosophy and history, amongst other things.
And when I talk to my sort of ancient historical friends, I'm in the ones who study ancient history,
right?
And none of, most of them don't do the first century for reasons that might seem kind of obvious,
but what they insist on is how speculative, intended if anything that you might say about
ancient history is, right?
Where you've got kind of material evidence, archaeological evidence, you can kind of speak
more confidently.
Where you've got texts, there's huge difficulties in interpreting the texts and so on.
So that's the kind of stuff that I would talk about.
So briefly, I think, and we've jumped around, but we went from the beginning of the universe
to Jesus.
That was quick because, you know, most theists who debate that are Christians, they start
with the theism just generally, and then they want to go to, well, he died and rose again,
and you're like, what?
Where did you make this connection?
It's fascinating.
Atheism.
What is the definition for atheism?
I don't want to get lost in this, but there is, I mean, it's clearly the lack of belief
in God's or a God, from what I understand, and sometimes a positive assertion that there's
no God, right?
So it's a matter of stipulation, I think, how you want to define most terms, most sort
of controversial philosophical terms.
And so what's important isn't the terminology, it's the kind of distinguishing between views.
So some people are going to believe that there are no gods, and some people are going to
suspend judgment on the question whether there are gods.
And if you put those two groups together, what you end up with is people who don't
believe that there are gods, right?
So there are kind of two species there.
Now, exactly who gets to claim the label atheism as a matter of difference to me?
My own view is that there are no gods.
And so when I'm using the word atheism, I'm going to use it for my position.
But it's completely, it really doesn't matter what we call things so long as we're all
clear how we're using the words and we kind of keep everything straight.
Let me, let me probe you if you don't mind.
I love this.
And I hope you don't mind my excitement.
I'm just, this is stuff I love to talk about.
When you say there are no gods, you sound very confident, right?
You didn't waver, you didn't stutter, you didn't hesitate.
You sounded pretty certain that there are no gods.
Can you tell me what you mean?
Um, so if, if you ask me, so philosophers will sometimes say that there are kind
of two different ways of talking about belief.
So we can talk about them in this kind of all or nothing way, right?
Either you believe something or you don't.
Maybe we might add some gradations in there.
So that, well, you know, you can kind of strongly believe it or less strongly believe
it while still believing it.
It's kind of more or less strongly disbelieve it or be kind of right, kind
of mutual in the middle, neither believing or disbelieving.
They also sometimes talk about credences and think that you would kind
of attach probabilities to claims.
And so if you've got credence one in something, that means you're certain.
If you've got credence zero, then you're certain that it's false.
If you're at point five, that puts you right in the middle, you're undecided.
Now, um, if you're asking me, what's my credence?
Yeah, um, I'm, I'm going to say, uh, practically it's one that
is in my everyday life.
I never think, oh, what if, what if there's a God or, you know, um, should
I worry about doing this because God might be watching or should I pray or whatever?
Not none of that, right?
It plays that those kind of beliefs just play no part in my regular life.
In, in discussion, in a, in a kind of theoretical discussion, I'm not going
to say one, I'm going to say, say close to one that you can't
tell the difference, right?
So, so that I will back off from saying completely certain because I think
that, um, absolute certainty should be reserved for, you know, things
like certain kinds of mathematical claims.
And I don't think the claim that there are no gods is quite like.
You know, the claim that two and two or four and I guess defining what a God
or God's is, is important too.
And you've, you said in a recent interview, I saw you on, um, you know,
something that has power over all other things or, you know, something to the
general gist of having power over either the world or all things, other things
than itself, even, uh, something like that.
Can you maybe specify?
Okay.
So this is going to test my memory a bit.
Uh, so, um, and it probably, it's probably not quite right also, but roughly
you could think of the gods as being the most powerful beings, uh, in various
kinds of world views.
That doesn't mean that in every world view, the gods will be the most powerful
being.
So for naturalists, supposing that humans are the most powerful beings, it
doesn't make us gods according to naturalists.
So an important part of the story is going to be that the gods are supernatural.
They're supernatural beings, but there might be different kinds of supernatural
beings.
So in Christianity, angels are supernatural, but they're not gods, you
know, likewise for demons.
Um, what's the difference?
Well, in Christianity, there's one God that sits above everything else and is
kind of in control of everything is ultimately responsible for the existence
of everything.
In other religions, where you, where you might have a different God or you
might have more than one God, the gods are at the top level in terms of their
control over what happens mostly.
That's not exactly right.
Cause for example, in the Greek story, the fates have a certain amount of
control over the gods.
So, um, yeah, that, that story can't be exactly right.
But it's a very important element in thinking about the gods, that the
gods have certain kinds of immense power over people, over human beings.
Um, that seems to be a kind of core idea in the, the notion of gods.
Interesting.
Um, you know, I've, I had Andy Thompson, he's a MD and, uh, I can't remember
exactly his specialty, but he worked with the Dawkins Foundation and, um, he
came and did a presentation.
He's wrote a book called Why We Believe in Gods and it goes into like all the
natural processes in the brain and then why we project, uh, you know, uh, we
project, uh, I don't know why I'm getting a blank here, that there's
actual, there's something there that there's not agency and things that aren't
there, uh, how evolution played a role into why we believe things at all and how
it helped us to survive and things like that.
Does any of evolutionary, um, byproducts, if you will, play a role into your
understanding of philosophy as an atheist?
So that, the story about, um, that, that cognitive science story or really it's a
kind of set of stories that seek to explain, um, the origins of religious
belief in our kind of hair trigger agency detection or something like that, uh,
probably has some plausibility as part of the story.
So, uh, one, one book that I really liked, um, that gives you a kind of
complicated account of religion in which that's one of a range of factors is
Scott Atron's book in Gods We Trust, which is quite old now, it's 2002 and I
think that the story about religion and why people have the kind of religious
beliefs that they do engage in the kinds of practices that they do will have to
be at least as complicated as the story that Atron tells and perhaps it will have
to be even more complicated than that.
So I've, I don't think that the story about kind of hair trigger agency
detection is the whole story, but I think that it could be a little part of the
story and there's, there will be a kind of evolutionary account, but it's not
just, um, uh, a sort of straightforward account about certain features of our
cognition because there's a kind of social evolution of religion and there's a
kind of, I expect if you go back kind of far enough, there's fairly complex, um,
interaction between our biological evolution and our social evolution and
you, you, you may have to go back like a hundred thousand years or more, um, to,
to be able to see this, right?
And so, so it won't be just, it won't be just a story in which you sort of think
about organisms and you think about this, um, these features that develop in
their brains.
There's a reason why the, um, you know, there's a, there's a, there's a,
there's a much wider story to tell about how we ended up being the kinds of
creatures that, um, have beliefs in God's.
It is interesting.
And I've recently interviewed Dr. Peter Singer.
He's from where you guys are down under, uh, and he, I asked him in a short, you
know, interview I did with him, I said, uh, is morality objective?
And he said, um, he thinks it is.
One of the things he said though is he used to be, uh, a guy who thought
morality was subjective and he brought up this case example.
Someone did.
You probably would know when I mentioned it.
Um, that they tested humans, um, to make decisions saying, look, if you,
if you could press a button and cause the railroad track to go off and only
kill one person instead of five, you know, 80% of the people said, I do that.
But then if you had to push a guy who was heavy enough off of a ledge to
stop from killing five people, would you do it?
And 20 or 20% percent said, yes, I would.
There was morality in this thing.
And he thinks that there's an objective morality.
What are your thoughts?
Do you think that we, or is it subjective?
And it seems objective based on our cultural, I don't know.
What, how would you answer that?
Okay.
So I think that there are some basic moral principles that are more or less
universal and I'm quite happy to think of them as just being kind of necessary
truths.
So in that sense, we have objectivity.
Um, there are truths, basic truths.
Now, I'm giving examples of, I mean, saying what the basic truths are will
be quite difficult, but I can give you examples of truth.
So I think, for example, it's just true that it's wrong to torture infants
for your own pleasure.
I think that's, it's just true that that's wrong.
Uh, and it couldn't be otherwise.
It's not like you can imagine.
No, I can't, if I start telling you a story about some imaginary world in
which it's okay for people to torture infants for pleasure, I think that
you'll kind of think, well, there's something wrong with this story.
You might as well have written a story in which two and one equals a hundred
and seven, right?
It would have, you know, I'd have, I'd have had just as much trouble
engaging with the story in that case as in the one that you gave.
So in that sense, I definitely agree with Peter's current position.
I think that there's a kind of objectivity to morality that's kind of
actually kind of similar to the objectivity of mathematics.
Um, I mean, that might not be Peter's view, but that's my view.
Um, on the other hand, uh, the kind of epistemology here is seems
easier for mathematics than it is for morality in mathematics.
We can prove things.
And once we've proved them, you know, we know where the truth lies, uh, in
ethics, once we've got disputes, they are often quite hard to resolve.
And there's nothing like proof that we can appeal to to help us do the resolving.
I think that we agree about lots of stuff.
And so, so let's take a basic principle that, that you shouldn't kill.
Well, that's not right.
I mean, nobody thinks that the basic principle is, is something more like this.
You shouldn't kill except when you're allowed to, right?
And now what happens is that we just disagree about what are the exceptional cases?
For some people, there are hardly any, maybe you can only kill in self-defense
or maybe self-defense and defense of Kith and kin, right?
You're kind of nearest and dearest.
Other people might think, no, you can, there's some more things like you can
kill if you're fighting a just war.
You can kill if you're appointed by the state to carry out certain kinds of roles.
And in the pursuit of those roles, like police armed forces or whatever, there's
kind of no alternative that, that's available to you in the circumstances.
You can kill.
I mean, all the other cases are like this too.
It has to be kind of, there's nothing else you could do.
But then we can broaden this out.
Some people think it's okay to kill animals for food.
Some people think it's okay to do it for fun and so on.
And the question isn't about the principle that you're not allowed to kill
except when you're allowed to.
The whole questions are about, okay, so which of the cases we are allowed to.
So I think that it's kind of that you're not allowed to kill except when you're
committed to that strikes me as just the truth, right?
Interesting.
Okay, okay, shifting gears just a tad because I mean, I've been jabbing with
various topics.
We've been really jumping around and I apologize for that.
But that's because I've been interviewing various people on different backgrounds
and wanting your specific take.
So being someone who is obviously a professor in philosophy on religion,
would you agree that God keeps getting more complex?
And what I mean is the way I look at it, when I look at antiquity and I'm
checking out these really ancient stories, you get down, let's just say,
let's use the Mesopotamian mythologies, for example, or Katie and whatever.
Then you get down into the Hellenistic age where you have, they're
allegorizing ancient stories, even people who are part of that same tradition
start to allegorize.
It seems to be a common motif, especially when Hellenization takes over.
Even a lot of the Old Testament by Philos, allegorized or whatever,
follow about Alexandria.
I say that to say like, it seems like the complexity of religion in God or
God's become more complicated as our science advances.
Is it because they're competing, you think, to try and keep their sacred
traditions and religions and say, these are still good and we, these should be,
you know, believed and followed today.
And I say that saying, I think that that's the case for Christianity.
Because when I look at the God of the Bible, he appears to people, he's walking
with them like in flesh and bones and in certain sources of the Old Testament.
If you take the documentary hypothesis and stuff, but it seems like God could
smell the sacrifice of the animals like he's in space and time.
But now you go to people and he's like, he's outside of space and time
beyond our imagination.
Hasn't God and these religions evolved to try and keep up with our advancements?
So to, and I guess to some extent that's right.
Certainly the conceptions of God evolve, whether why they evolve
is perhaps less clear.
I'm not sure that it has to do with science.
I mean, it depends a little bit on your views about when and where science was important.
If you have the kind of view, which is not uncommon, that science really doesn't get
going as a kind of institution in the West until Galileo.
Religion's been a lot of time evolving before then.
And it's not clear that science, I mean, let's put that a view of science.
And suppose, you know, that science is a kind of fairly ancient enterprise and the Greeks
had in some ways had quite advanced science, for example, in astronomy, mathematics, but
there are also kind of aspects of engineering that they were quite advanced in as well.
It doesn't seem very plausible that those advancements in science were in any competition
with the religions that those people practiced.
So I think it's going to be hard to kind of run a story that it's science that pushes
religion to change.
That kind of leaves an open question then about why there are changes.
One thing that I think is useful to look at would be to look at a different religion.
So look at Hinduism, which is quite old, and look at the extent to which really
there have been significant changes in Hindu beliefs in the last thousand years.
And I suspect, although I'm not an expert on this,
that you might well find that there's much less dramatic change.
You know, because by a thousand years ago, all of the main Hindu schools of philosophy
have been established, they've all been arguing with each other for a long time.
I suspect that you'll find that there's much less change than there is in some other areas.
Though again, it's not clear that, say, that Catholic beliefs have changed much since the
kind of, I mean Catholic conception of God, the kind of whole theology, the stuff, everything.
If you read Aquinas and you look at the theology now, it's not clear that it's changed that much.
Okay, so it is an open question, though, ultimately on what caused the,
I mean, some of the things that we see, it might just be a different jurisdiction,
because Christianity doesn't seem altogether the same as what we see in the Hebrew Bible.
It might be utilizing it, but it's a different time, too.
So a different time, different age, different purposes in cultural dynamics and etc. etc.
There's plenty of factors that might play a huge, significant role in that.
The question I have for you maybe to be, I don't know why I keep drawing these
blanks every time I go to ask you a question specifically on your particular background,
but what is your favorite atheist philosopher from antiquity?
And I'll say from the Western philosophy, of course, what's your favorite?
Okay, so let's not go with antiquity because it's kind of controversial whether there are
atheists before the, I mean, some people say before the 18th century.
Now, this is tricky. I don't believe it. I mean, in the West, and it's clear that in the Indian
tradition, the Chavakas are atheists, they're materialists there, and that this is 6th century BC.
But in Greece, it's much more controversial. There's a few people who are known as atheists,
but they tended to be people who just rejected the popular gods. And I mean,
something that you didn't mention about you could have is that at least by the time of Plato,
there were monotheists amongst the Greeks because Plato was one of them. People who had this idea
about a single god. So I would prefer to answer the question in connection with the kind of,
say, the 18th century in Europe. So I guess Holbach is my favorite, but then I kind of like him
not so much for his writings, but for his absolutely astonishing life. So
Holbach is one of the most interesting figures in the 18th century, I think. So he
he had a very rich uncle, his uncle made a fortune on the stock exchange. And
once he once he'd made all this money, he ran a salon in Paris. And when he died,
Holbach was his sole heir. And so he inherited the salon and a bucket load of money. And so
for the next for the rest of his life, Holbach ran the best salon in Paris. So they had
fantastic food, the best wine, he had had one of the best libraries in existence.
And he entertained all of the kind of intellectuals and many of the royals
of the time. And they so and he would have a big collection of people, you know, like there'd be
15, 20 people around the table. And they would just talk about whatever. As it happened, he had
a kind of inner circle and they're all atheists. And this was at a time, you know, it wasn't,
it was neither respectable nor safe to be an atheist, really. And they were revolutionaries.
And they had a big influence on the what eventually became the French Revolution.
And Holbach published a whole stack of anonymous books. And nobody knew who was writing these books.
And it didn't become known that it was him until well into the next century. And so he had this
kind of double life, because he could he did he did get everybody to come to his salon. And they
everyone kind of willingly participated in these kind of no holds, but conversations about whatever.
But on the other hand, he was an extremely radical figure, kind of politically and philosophically.
Wow. So yeah, if if I if I could get in my time machine and go back and meet someone,
I'd like to go back to his salon, maybe on a day when Saint David Hume was there because Hume visited
because everybody did. Okay. Have you heard of Dr. Tim Whitmarsh? He wrote a book called Battling
the Gods. I've read that book. Okay. Did you what did you think about his ideas? Because I think he
agreed with everything you said about the ancients. The difference, though, I think he said it does
appear there are some very few. It's not like a common thing, but there were few in antiquity.
I guess what's not appealing to you isn't that there weren't possibly atheists. It's just
what we have of them isn't much. It's scant. So really, nothing influences you on a major scale,
right? So Whitmarsh is one of the influences on my view. When you when you look at the details
about the particular people who are known as atheists, there's not much to enable you to say
whether they were or they weren't. Right. And I figured the right approach is for me to
as almost everywhere to key my beliefs to the experts. I take Whitmarsh to be one of the experts.
So that's why I have the view that I do because I've read him and I've read a few other people
like him. It's not that I, for example, I don't read Greek. So I can't do the end or all that.
And so I can't do the independent research. I totally respect that. And I really enjoyed his
book as well. And I can't wait to dig into yours. Shifting gears again. A presuppositionalist comes
at you and says, and I've heard actually there was one named Darth Dawkins. He's kind of a
trollish kind of character on the internet. And I don't know, you know, if you know who I'm talking
about, but I'll do it because I had a conversation with him once. Can you tell me about this
conversation? How would you, you know, if you were to just tell me what you think about the
conversation that we could probe maybe more into. So, so, so there's, I don't know.
I don't want to say something disrespectful. Right. So,
but presuppositionalism as a strategy is sort of, it feels to me like it's out of a kind of
primary school playbook. Right. Because no matter what you might say to a presuppositionalist,
they're just going to insist that what you said presupposes that their view is true.
Right. That's kind of, that's basically the strategy. And you can see that there's not much
point getting into a conversation with somebody who has that approach. And it's hard to know how to
make a conversation with somebody like that more productive.
What I try to do is to say, look, we need to probe the notion of presupposition.
There's, there have been books written by major philosophers about presupposition.
And there's a small range of accounts that you could take about what it is for somebody to
presuppose something. And on none of those accounts do I presuppose the things that you're
attributing to me. Right. And that's the way that, I mean, it seems like the only kind of way
of responding. And it's not going to have any effect because nothing, nothing can.
Right. Once you've invested in that rhetorical strategy, you've made yourself, you've cut yourself
off both from actually having to sort of think about whether your position is defensible. But,
but from any serious engagement with what anybody else says, that's how it seemed to me anyway.
Yeah, there's, it's definitely a technique. It's almost a script in the head. Well, what is your,
what is your absolute primary pre, you know, like this foundational, and it's like, whoa,
like they suppose there must be a first cause that causes everything, of course. And so how
would you address that, that idea? And I'm not, you know, I'm not even a Christian. I'm asking you.
So I think that it's kind of an open question whether causal reality has an origin or not. So
I guess it's a question for physics. So some physicists, so Anthony Guiri is one, thinks
that there's no origin, right? We live in a multiverse, and the space of the multiverse
is infinite in the past. So pick any point, there's an earlier point, there's no origin.
Suppose that the multiverse theory is wrong, and there's just one universe.
It kind of looks as though our universe has an origin. It's clearly expanded from
a very small initial state, that much we kind of know. The details of the very earliest bit
still elude us. We don't know how to put quantum mechanics and general relativity together to
get a kind of quantum gravitational theory that will accurately describe that first bit.
It might be that that's all there is. I mean, there are other possibilities here,
sort of bounce possibilities, where you get a kind of, a kind of endless cycle of expansions
and contractions, whatever. But maybe that's right. If the universe does have a beginning,
you still might think it could be that it kind of gets closer and closer to that origin point
without actually breaching it. So there's no beginning, or you might think there's an initial
state, right? If there's an initial state, then there is a first cause in that sense,
a first cause from which everything follows. That's only one notion of first cause,
because there's also the kind of Thomistic idea that there's something that supports everything
into existence, keeps it in existence from one moment to the next. I don't think you need anything
like that. I think the universe is kind of, it's a big boy, it can go on on its own, right?
I recently interviewed Professor Kraus actually on, he's a theoretical physicist,
and he was mentioning how particles coming in and out of existence,
that is a plausible hypothesis for the existence of the universe. And if it came in with zero
energy, then this is why we have a long lasting universe that comes to be at all. I'm not,
I don't know this stuff, like the science and even the philosophy that you're talking about here,
but I don't really know any of this stuff like you, and I want to learn more about it,
which is why I'm interviewing you now. But it's a fascinating discussion because I never thought,
is it possible that this, all that we look at could exist without God? And I've really enjoyed
this. This has been a fascinating interview. If someone out there right now is struggling,
let's just say they, all they know is the biblical stuff, but they're interested in
doing a dive into trying, reasonably look and say, could there not be a God for all causes to be
everything that we see? Is there a strong philosophical stance that could be taken
that supports the reality that we see around us? What would you recommend them do?
So if, so that's, that's kind of an interesting question, right? I mean, you're talking to a
philosopher. So I might, you might expect me to recommend, well, do some philosophy, right?
And maybe that's what I would do. Say, okay, so let's, let's read some stuff that puts different
opinions to the one that you hold and then see whether you think that one of them is better
than the opinion that you currently hold, especially if you're kind of wavering on the opinion that
you've got at the moment. So for example, you could have a look at something written by a
naturalist philosopher of religion, defending the kind of naturalistic approach to religion
and see what you think. And you might decide after you've read it that actually, you know,
it doesn't do it for you and you, it makes you happier being a theist or it might happen that
you think, yeah, actually, I kind of like that more. And then please, I'm just kind of with this
away. It could go either way. You are something else. The way you answered that, I was really
well said because you're not forcing anything down anyone's throat. And I appreciate the way you,
you dealt with that. Last question I have, and then we'll wrap things up. I hope everybody
who's watched this, I hope you, you accept my apologies for jumping around. But if you're watching
this, you'll probably stuck around this long because you realize, okay, this is a lot of
interesting points are being covered in this interview. The final one is your interview or
debate, if you will, with William Lane Craig, William Lane, Craig's cosmological, you know,
argument. I've heard Sean Carroll debate him on this topic and people on either side, William
beat him and Sean Carroll's teammate, you know, Sean destroyed William. What would you say the
weakest points of his position are based on your arguing or debating Dr. William Lane Craig?
Okay, so that's really hard to say. I know Bill quite well and we've corresponded a bit over the
years. I've had lunch with him a couple of times. He's a great guy and I don't want, this is not a
jab at him. I'm not sure that I'm going to say there's a kind of weak spot where we can go in
and kind of, you know, we pull this little string here and the whole thing's going to fall apart.
I don't think that, I mean, his position is one that he's been thinking about for a long time
and whatever questions you ask him, he's going to have answers. There are things that I very
strongly disagree with him. What are some of those? But that's a different matter. Well,
I mean, just since you asked about the Kalem cosmological argument, he thinks that there's
supposing that there's an initial state. There's a reason for thinking that the initial state's
got to be, you know, there's an origin. It's got to be God and God makes the universe. Whereas
I see no need at all for God, even if there's an initial state, I think we can just suppose that
the initial state is whatever, give him whatever status necessary, contingent, whatever that Craig
wants to give to God and do without God. So that's a big disagreement between us now because
that takes away one of what he takes to be the biggest reasons for wanting to believe in God.
At least, or maybe I shouldn't quite put it like that, because after all, he does think that even
if he would be justified in believing in God, even if none of the arguments were any good,
because he thinks he's got experience that kind of directly supports his belief. But it turns out
that there's like a thousand things that we disagree about. There's no one thing that I would
point to and say, I really can't believe that he believes that thing. There's a kind of package
of things and they fit together the things that he believes. It seems like, and I can only speak
for myself, and we can't psychoanalyze other people, but it seems like confirmation bias often
happens. Like, I wanted a God to be true. I didn't want what I was living to be a lie or
potentially chemical reactions in the brain with my emotional experience. And here I am,
I've got to make this be true. Let me find a worldview with a foundation that supports that
premise. It makes me kind of wonder if that's the approach that apologists such as Dr. Craig might
be doing in order to confirm their already pre-existing beliefs. He will think the same
thing about you. You really don't want it to be the case that God exists and you're just looking
for things that will justify you in that kind of belief. And there's a kind of important kind of
underlying point here, which is about the kind of symmetry of the competing positions when people
disagree. And you want to be very careful about the kinds of explaining a way that you do of
someone else's position if you haven't first considered whether they're perfectly able to
respond by saying the same kinds of things about you. So that's not to say that it might not be
true, right? I mean, independently on the basis of psychological research, we're all prone to all
kinds of biases in our thinking. And it may well be that those biases affect what we think about,
for example, the existence of God. But that's just a human problem that afflicts all of us.
It's not something that's kind of a particular problem for naturalists or atheists or whoever.
So someone right now thinks you don't want to believe in God, just like me. You know what I
mean? Someone thinks I don't want to believe in God. And how would you answer them? And then we'll
say goodbye. Okay, so I have written some stuff about this too, because it's one of the kind of
interesting questions that's been discussed a little bit in philosophy in the last decade is
whether we should want to believe in God, right? And it seems to me that the answer to that question
is, at least for me, I have no desire to believe in God. I don't want to believe in God and I
shouldn't. So I'm kind of happy with that as a position. Yeah, I'm fine with that too. But I think
that often the people who are making that accusation are doing it with motives. It seems like
their motives aren't just like two philosophers might be sitting there. They've dealt with these
arguments. They've literally heard a million of these things before. They know the language.
They don't feel any emotional tension when you say you don't believe in God and you don't want to.
They don't feel like they have to convert you. They don't feel like they're forced to make you
change your mind or anything. But it sounds like oftentimes that is what I find on my end. I was
the apologist and now I'm like, okay, I just want to educate people to know evolution is a fact,
you know, not just a conspiracy or something. I want people to know some facts and they think
that I just don't want to believe in God because I hate God or I want to live a sinful life or
whatever it might be and it's not really my motive. To me, I honestly am beginning to think like,
I've been tricked in my own head this whole time. I really think I've been tricked.
And I feel like it's okay that I say that and I'm not asking them to.
Yeah. So, I mean, the idea that you hate God or that you're sinful or something like that
is something that from your point of view is going to seem really weird. Like,
there are all kinds of things I don't believe in, like the Easter Bunny, but I don't hate the
Easter Bunny, right? Yeah, I'm absolutely sure, right? I mean, it would be pointless to have an
attitude of hatred towards things that don't exist. So, of course, I don't hate God, right?
I mean, I think that God doesn't exist. That's where my attitude stopped. The idea that there's a
hatred there seems to me to be just absurd. What must happen on the other side is that
they're imputing to you some level of belief in God. At some level, you know God exists. Now,
we can make sense of the idea that you hate God, right? And there's a kind of corresponding move
on the other side. So, George Ray insists that really deep down, everyone knows that there's
no God, right? There are people who believe in God are just self-deceived. At some level,
they know it isn't so, right? Now, that kind of dispute is, I think, is not very edifying on
either side, right? It was a trope for hundreds of years that there couldn't be intellectual
atheists, right? Everyone knew deep down that God exists. Atheists, if there were such people,
were just saying things for show, you know, or, you know, out of vanity or something like that.
I just think that those kinds of accusations on either side are just baseless and
unedifying and not getting us anywhere and we should stop doing it.
Wow. This was amazing. Honestly, I seriously love every minute of this. I really appreciate
you coming on. I hope everybody goes and checks out the books. Seriously, this one right here is
they must get, it's for most people, such as myself, you know, to get a better grasp on the basics.
And that's what I need to do, in fact. And I plan to have you back, if that's okay in the future,
to specifically talk about this book. I can promise you I won't do you dirty like I did this episode
and we went all over the place. So please forgive me on that. And also, it's no problem. Of course,
I'm happy to come back. Yeah, I'm sorry we jumped around. I thought of myself, all these episodes
that I've interviewed other scholars, I wanted to somehow bring it and make it something you could
address. But in the upcoming episode, let's cover the details in your book and educate people. I
love to educate the general public. Get this information out there so everybody can read Dr.
Oppie's work. Brilliant mind, honestly, a wonderful, brilliant mind. And you carry yourself in a way,
Dr. Oppie, that anyone, you're approachable, you're not, you have, there's no ill intent,
there's no chip on your shoulder. And that's one of the things I commend you most for,
especially in such a controversial topic such as atheism in America. America, you know,
there's some serious fundamentalists over here. And I use the term as in what I was. We definitely
thought you guys hated God. And, you know, we didn't really like atheists. And now here I am one. So
thank you. Okay, cheers. And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
