Που το wasioni, το Koch lag aos
Αυτό Was the sister and wife of Zeus
Was the high lady realm 하는 the famous
& glorious
Adonai
this was the high god of the east
Maybe, but he was
ο Θεός was linked to the underworld, but they themselves cast lots for the sovereignty and Jesus was allotted the dominion of the sky to Poseidon the dominion of the sea and to Pluto the dominion of Hades.
So here is a new version of the myth where they also cast lots.
This actually is taken from some Near Eastern religions like the Hittite Pantheon where there is this accession of gods and they understand something similar.
I'm gonna argue why not. I mean the final deity there was a deity of the sky and a deity of meteorological phenomena like Zeus is after all.
He has some stages of succession through violent overthrow of the previous deity.
Αυτοκρατικά, ο Θεός was linked to the dominion of the sea and to the dominion of the sea.
Αυτοκρατικά, ο Θεός was linked to the dominion of the sea and to the dominion of the sea.
We are MythVision.
Να+, άναν δέσει, ο Θεός είναι being dedicated to motives and why we are talking about these queremos things.
оказ αυτήν Wing by Wing is making an account of the fact that there is the name of the complicated reverb and I wrote the music itself
such as downloaded from SNES Entertainment in both articles and of course,
but if you want to practice to listen to the reactions of the cultural andactly like they see if it's not.
Α τίποτα που διζήκαμε για τη Λύδικη Πραγματισία
στους άσπες που έφταναμε
για reflecting but on a different perspective
εσύκολα είναι διότι Scripture billion
Ναφ μέσα hanged down
ενός του BUT
grades
ctions
as
είχε αυτια ποιοσυνοκτινowan δύσκ installed
δύσκ
δύσκ
ently eastern basis would tried to create their own cult upon that infrastructure, 60
alright s
insert you before we get into this just so our audience knows a little bit about you they've
never met you after this episode you can go down into the description you can support
him if you like what you hear and you want to give a one time donation for his his time
και την εύκολη και τις εύκολες που βρήκεται σε αυτή η στιγμή.
Ελπίζω να έχω τον ίδιο στην επόμενη.
Δίμος, πιστεύω, έχετε κάποια εξογραφία σε αυτή η στιγμή που θα εξηγήσουμε σήμερα.
Δεν είμαι η θεολογία.
Φυσικά, είμαι ένα φιλόσοφερο.
Εντάξει.
Είμαι also a tutor at this point in my life.
Είμαι δύσκολος.
Είμαι δύσκολος, επειδή έγινε πρώτα με τα στιγμή μου.
Είχα been doing great studies.
Είχα been doing the highest grade at the University of Patras,
were I studied philosophy under two great supervisors
that helped me with my thesis there.
Then I did another course or program
in the University of Bristol,
where I studied philosophy and law.
I had some components from philosophy
and some components from the law department there.
Και, φυσικά, κάποιοι στην Ελλάδα μπορούν να μου γνωρίζουν από κάποιες δημιουργίες που έγινε από ελληνικές πόμενες.
Και πραγματικά, κάποιες πόμενες που έγινε από το γερμανικό φιλόσοφερ Φρινδρίχου Βιλχεμνίτσε.
Και έχω έγινε, λοιπόν, δύο ή τρεις πολιτικές αρτητικές ή κάτι, αλλά, φυσικά, δεν είμαστε εδώ να έρθουν πολιτικά.
Υπάρχουν κάποιες πόμενες, αλλά, φυσικά, το σκέφτημα εδώ είναι να έρθουν πιο δύσκολο σε κάποιες δημιουργίες κρίνησης και να καταλάβουν γιατί η δημιουργία χρειάζεται ή γιατί δεν χρειάζεται ή τι χρειάζεται, δύσκολο, για τη δημιουργία μας.
Οπότε, πριν ξεκινάω, πρέπει να δώσει αυτές τα γερμανικά, και θα δω στις πιο δύσκολες.
Φυσικά, θα δω στις πιο δύσκολες με αυτό.
Όταν το σκέφτημα είναι στην δύσκολα, θα ξεκινώ.
Λοιπόν, θα δω στις.
Πιστεύω, απ'ναν είμαι στις πιο δυσκολογικές πόμενες or whatever,
που είναι Κάρρρλ Μαρξ, ειν' σε όλη την κρίτηση του Βιλχεμνίτσεου Φιλσοφερφινδρίχου Βιλχεμνίτσε,
Είχε σχέσης για τη Γερμανία, μπορείτε να αλλάξετε το χώρο, για κάθε χώρο, πραγματικά.
Το κρίτησμα της ρηλίγιου έχει been essentially completed.
Και το κρίτησμα της ρηλίγιου είναι η προηγιότητα της όλες τις κρίτησεις.
Αυτό είναι φυσικά.
Είναι, πρέπει να κρίτησες τη ρηλίγιου για να κάνεις μια καλύτερη κοινωνία,
για να ζήσεις καλύτερα με τους φίλους σας ή με τους φόρους σας.
Ηmotivation of Religious Criticism is, man makes religion, religion does not make man,
but man is no abstract being squatting outside the world, like God, a wedding.
Man is the world of man, state, society.
This state and this society produce religion,
which is an inverted consciousness of the world,
because they are an inverted world.
Η λιγιονία είναι η κοινωνική θέα της αυτής της λιγιονίας.
Jarek, μπορείτε να μην ακούσετε?
Ναι.
Εντάξει.
Νομίζω να είμαι εκεί.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Εντάξει.
Εντάξει.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Εντάξει.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Δεν μπορώ να ακούσετε.
Στη φορtarή λ spurίελι,
ρύchuckling ευ gems,
ρύ fall sour,
ρύ bowly sliced.
Βικολ έχοντα να ακούσετε.
Το Βιγι X Clean is
The father away.
για την αρχαία αρχαία.
Λοιπόν, εδώ θέλω να συμφωνήσω σε τρεις πόντες.
Πρώτας, όπως είπαμε, η πρόκληση των όντων κρίνησης
ή η πρόκληση των όντων κρίνησης είναι κρίνησης για τη δημιουργία.
Πρέπει να κάνουμε αυτή.
Λοιπόν, υπάρχει αυτή η νοσία που είναι πραγματικά αλύτερη,
που νομίζουμε ότι η δημιουργία κάνει η δημιουργία
και η δημιουργία δεν κάνει πράγματα.
Και then, φυσικά, είναι αυτή η φραγματική φραγματική πρόκληση,
που έχει been taken out of context quite a lot of times,
which is the opium of the people, so religion is bad.
But at the same time, strong drugs like that
can also nullify the soul or liberate someone from pain, etc.
So religion has also a comforting aspect, of course.
The problem with scholars and critics of religion
is basically that you can be happy or comfortable
or enjoy yourself or believe that you will go to heaven
or, I don't know, be at the company of fluffy little angels or whatever.
But the problem there is that you can be happy with a lie
and we don't want to tell you lies.
So basically, that's what drives people to criticize religion sometimes.
Now I'm going to take you to another notion, basically.
You can show actually the second image or whatever.
This one about Locke, all right?
The idea basically there, I'm not going to quote him directly,
but the idea there is that he speaks basically
the chapter is about the state of war.
So Locke is a very old philosopher.
He believes in the social contract,
this notion that many, let's say, enlightenment,
the era philosophers would use to formulate the need
for political societies and so on and so forth.
And basically, what I want you to take from this one
is he speaks about Jefa and the Ammonites.
And he says that how can you judge
between whose right between people?
You need some place, some authority to refer to.
And what Jefa does is he refers to God the judge
and God shall be the judge because he's the ultimate authority or whatever.
But the problem that Locke here faces is another one.
It's not a religious one by necessity.
It's a worldly one.
So religion actually is also something like, let's say,
a societal construct which predates political manifestations of human society.
But at the same time, it is, let's say, like proto-politics.
So the way that you have to evolve into a moral being
and be kind to others and other things
is actually the basis of a political system.
It's the basis of society.
You cannot have a society in which the God will say,
δωσάλ κελ, δωσάλ μέρδερ, δωσάλ δυστρώει, whatever.
I don't know.
All right.
Then I'm going, again, to a more specific quote,
which is basically this second idea from Marx here.
It's another German one.
It's Nietzsche, another one of my great influences.
Then he says in this little book.
Αυτό είναι ένα πολύ μικρό μήνο που έγινε,
που προσπαθούσε να σημαίνει περισσότερα από αυτά τα ιδέα του.
Είναι η δημιουργία των ιδέων, ή γότσεν δάμερου,
που δημιουργεί στην Γερμανία την δημιουργία των δημιουργικών δημιουργών,
ή κάτι like that.
Και υπάρχει ένα τάπτρο εκεί, το Μαξίμ Σενδάρος,
σε οποία έγινε πραγματικά,
ότι ο άνθρωπος μιλήθηκε από τον Θεό ή τον Θεό μιλήθηκε από τον Μαξίμ Σενδάρος.
Λοιπόν, είναι ο ίδιος της ίδιος, διότι έγινε.
Πήραμε να κάνουμε ένα μιλήθημα όταν εμβόλεσαμε από τον Κάνδερ Γαθάρρες
για στους ανάμπλους,
και εμβόλεσαμε κάποιες από τις δυνάσεις μας με έναν πρόβλημα ή έναν πρόβλημα πρόβλημα.
Και μετά,
έχει αυτό το πρόβλημα του Χριστιανίου,
όπου λέει ότι ο μόνος Χριστιανίου που υπάρχει πάνω από τον Κρόσσεν,
η ζωή του είχε το ίδιο από έναν κόσμο ή έναν Βαγγέλιον,
είναι το ίδιο, είναι έναν Δυσανγγέλιον,
είναι το ίδιο, αυτό είναι ο ίδιο, το ίδιο, το ίδιο, το ίδιο.
Και πάνω από την δύο του Χριστιανίου,
ο ίδιο also σημαίνει,
το πραγματικό που πρέπει να δείξει κάποιες δυνάσεις,
δειξει να δείξει για το πρόβλημα,
αλλά ότι αυτό το πρόβλημα που υπάρχει από έναν Άιδε φηξέ,
που omn Pavitted ,
και αυτό στούττα είναι το π� mudire,
το πρόβλημα που έχειτε, ήξη ο επηγραφε Cliff ,
είναι το ίδιο επηρεςρέλο,
που μπα πάρενομα για καιο McKay Ζιουνεία,
ο ίδιος Έabilir μία ειδ peleία,
έναν δace τον μαχτισμό και αυτό ξύσης βόδος αυτός,
και αυτό βρήκε σαφισιμπτικά από το κομμάτι της Λούνατος Κασσάλιου.
Δεν ειχα να δει χρονις για τους εξοπλούς του,
προσπαθούσε να κομμάσει,
ότι η αυτοσυκνέση δεν είναι αυτοσυκνέσης
και οι αυτοσυκνέσεις της Λούνατος Κασσάλιου
δεν είναι αυτοσυκνέσης της Λούνατος Κασσάλιου.
Κρυστιάνη δινέξει αυτοσυκνέσης πρέπει,
επειδή όπως η Ελληνική Πύριτα
θα χρειάζει την αυτοσυκνέση της εξοπλούς του,
η αυτοσυκνέση της εξοπλούς της εξοπλούς της Λούνατος Κασσάλιου
είναι να δημιουργήσει τους εξοπλούς του.
Τώρα, έχω πρόκειται εδώ.
Ναι, έχω πρόκειται εδώ.
Είναι αυτοσυκνέσης πολέμικη
προσπαθούς του Λούνατος Κασσάλιου,
αλλά έχω ένα προβλήμα εδώ.
Λούνατος Κασσάλιου was this healer.
Of course, he was a man,
I don't know, a preacher,
whatever you call him, maybe a worker as well,
in the Marxian sense, you know.
He was coming from a poor background,
poor upbringing or whatever,
but he was of course a teacher of the law
and all those things,
but he was also a healer.
How can he say that Christianity finds sickness
necessary and the Greek spirit
needed a superabundance of health?
The Greeks had a god who was crippled.
He had, I'm going to refer to his Greek name,
is Ephesus, and the Latinized form
should be Hephaestus
or Vulcan for the Romans.
So, here is my problem.
I'm going to show some of these aspects
maybe later on, but yeah,
let's move a bit forward
besides that introductory ideas
that I threw there just for religion in general.
So, every religion has basically two components.
One of it is mythology,
which is the belief or the doctrine of religion,
what people think of it,
and then it has a practical component or element.
That is when you venerate a god,
you worship, you show servitude towards the divinity
or maybe you appease a malignant god,
whatever you do.
I mean, it depends on people's aspects of religion.
So, in the case of Greece,
the age of mythological creation
was around 900 BCE
to let's say, I would say 600 BCE,
but some people say 500 BCE.
Basically, it's from the geometric era to the archaic era.
In this notion,
then comes the classical era
and then there is some criticism of
the mainstream religious doctrines, etc.
But I'm gonna give you later,
maybe during the final part of this presentation,
I'm gonna give you some criticism
that some pre-socratic philosophers did to religion
and it is quite obvious that from the archaic era,
so from the time that mythology was created,
it also had its critics
and those critics were specifically vocal about some aspects
and they were specifically vocal against
some people who created those myths.
The philosophical problem that we are facing in general
is how beings came into existence,
how it happened and all those things sprouted,
I don't know, appeared or whatever.
So the ancient Greek religious,
let's say, high-era funds or priests
or whatever they were,
they responded to these questions through myths.
They gave us some cosmological and theogonic myths.
One of those and one of the earliest actually
is Hesiod's Theogony.
And now I have to ask, what is Theogony?
What does it mean?
I mean, the becoming of God or God
or the birth of God is a good analog or a good translation.
This poem was written by Hesiod.
Before I'm gonna talk about Theogony in particular,
let's talk about Hesiod.
So who was Hesiod?
Hesiod describes himself in the Theogony
that is lines 22 to 25.
But the muses taught me, Hesiod, how to sing nicely.
While I was, I don't know,
I was a shepherd with little lambs
under the godly mountain of Helicon.
And those muses were sons of Olympus,
which is the holy mountain.
And there were also daughters of Olympus
and daughters of Zeus, the holder of the Edges.
The Edges was actually a seal, a royal seal.
So it's a similarity that the god is presented
as being of higher status,
as it is with the Judaic pantheon, the Hebrew religion
and other actually nearester religions.
They always see God as something of a supreme social status,
not only of a supreme divine status,
but also of a supreme social status.
Then Theogony is an epic poem of sorts.
It was written around 700 BCE.
It has over a thousand lines.
It is among other things a hymn to the muses.
It is a brief introduction to cosmogonic Greek mythology.
And I went up and I did a rough division of the text.
I would say it has an introduction.
It starts with a very nice quotation.
We start thinking about the muses of Helicon,
who live in the great mountain of Helicon, which is full of gods.
So mind you, Helicon is way to the south of Greece, around Biosia.
And they also gather around this spring,
which suits fast running water,
and they dance around the altar of the all-powerful son of Cronus,
which is Zeus, of course, this one.
Yeah, it is basically a hymn to the muses,
but it has an introduction of this hymnographical part.
Then it goes into describing how the primordial date is sprung.
Then he speaks about the titanic pantheon,
or the titans, as we know them.
Then about the Olympian pantheon.
He knows some aspects there, including the titanomachy,
some labors of Hercules, Dionysius, the dying and rising deity.
And there is also a brief epilogue against praising the muses, etc.
Hesiod wrote other poems, such as The Works and Days,
such as The Catalog of Women,
and some other purely hymnographical pieces,
like The Shield of Hercules,
or A hymn to Demeter, or Ceres, would be the Roman equivalent.
In this notion, in which we are talking about,
the world, the whole universe,
the conceivable part of our existence came from chaos.
It came from something which...
That sounds very familiar.
But it sounds like, when we say chaos these days,
we mean something like destruction and something bad, actually.
Something not very pleasant.
But I think I will argue here that what he means by chaos
is basically an organized matter,
not in the sense that it has some negative connotation by itself.
It's not organized, as you point.
It's chaotic, we say.
No structure to it. It has no structure.
The interesting thing, though, is he doesn't say chaos created the world.
Firstly, chaos became, or came into existence.
By whom? He doesn't say.
So here is an open field for other religious dogmatas
that entered later on into the Greek mythology.
You say, I know who created it,
and chaos was the offspring of this thing, or whatever.
In the Gnostic texts, you know,
those primordial proteenia, or barbellor, whatever you call those crazy dates there,
it's quite funny, because they could argue that,
yeah, we know the person who did it, right?
Don't we?
But Hesiot doesn't say.
He says that it came from chaos.
He drafts on this primordial pantheon,
which is quite complex, as you can see.
So this is a natural pantheon.
You can argue that it has some elements of pantheism,
which is the belief that everything is godly,
like anemistic religions of the East,
and like this notion that I found in some Latin texts,
the anima mundi, the soul of the world, let's say.
So everything has parts of godliness in it.
Of course, this pantheon could be linked with many fertility cults,
or matriarchal, let's say, mother goddesses,
but one can find in the Aegean islands of Greece,
or in Crete.
Of course, Hesiot tells us here that Gaia was greater than Uranus,
so Gaia, which is earth, was of greatest status than Uranus,
the god of the sky, is a bit like John's Gospel,
where the father is greater than I.
Gaia and Uranus, which is earth and sky.
There is this deity, which also Plato knows of,
that is a very old deity, which is Eros,
the god, let's say, of eroticism, or erotic love,
or simply love.
So basically, Eros, or Cupid, as the Romans would say later,
was maybe that force that drove Gaia and Uranus,
the heaven and the earth, the two, I don't know,
natural forces to collide, or whatever.
Then Gaia gave birth by herself, so as a virgin,
she gave birth to mountains, seas, archipelagos,
Tartarus, which is basically the bottomless pit down in Hades,
where the bad guys go, or whatever.
Then Olympus, Mount Olympus, which is the holy mountain of the Greeks.
But most people, when they think of Olympus,
they have this notion that it is this mountain
between the Greek regions of Thessaly and Macedonia.
But at the same time, I was visiting a friend
down in the island of Lesbos, and they have a mountain
called Olympus there.
In Cyprus, I think, they also have a part of their big mountain
that they have there, because Cyprus is an island,
it doesn't have many mountains.
But this mountain has the highest part, it's called Olympus.
So basically Olympus means the mountain that connects to the sky, basically.
It's actually this idea that this garden of Eden,
that important place, but it is physical
and not physical at the same time.
Then Gaia, I gave birth by Uranus to the Titans,
to the Cyclops, which have very nice names,
Argus, Theropis and Brontes, which is the first one,
the lightning one, and the loud thundering one,
or something like that.
Then we have those strange beings, the Hecatons here,
as they are called, or the hundred hunters,
which were some sort of, I don't know, mutants,
let's say super mutants, like giants or whatever they were.
But they had like 50 hunts, like the Indian deities
that have many sea wars or whatever.
Then they also had many heads,
and they were running all over the place.
They were powerful, especially in physical strength.
Then Chaos also gave rise to some other concepts
that most people would see as negative ones.
I'm going into detail here, because I think it's important,
because Chaos gave birth to Erevos and Nyx.
Erevos is something like the eternal darkness,
and Nyx is night, a personification of night.
Actually, this line of succession describes how the Greeks
were able to make view the existence of negative things in the world.
Why bad things happen in the world?
Because Chaos gave birth to Erevos and Nyx,
which of course gave birth to Aether,
which is the higher air and Himera, which is day.
But also it gave birth to Moros,
which is a deity of violent death,
κύρα, which is also a violent death deity.
Θάνατος, which is how we call death in modern Greek.
Θάνατος is basically all death.
Μόμος, which is mockery, and oises, which is size.
Other deities like Nemesis,
the justice that you cannot escape,
or Apati, which is deceitfulness,
γύρας, which is basically all days,
and so on and so forth.
Some of them are not negative,
so Hypnos is basically sleep,
and Onira are dreams,
which can be good or bad, it depends.
And then we have also the Mire,
which are the fates,
κλωθό, λάχεσες, and άτροπος.
Basically, κλωθό is the spinner.
The speedstale of the 3 old ladies,
with one eye that they set.
κλω δόoggς erfras합니다.
Θ element 스� Erica,
one that detects threads or whatever.
Λάχεσος is decided by chance,
άτροπος fearless,
γιατί θα κρατήσει το σχέδιο μας και θα κρατήσει το σχέδιο μας.
Αυτό είναι πως σκέφτεροι συμβαίνουν.
Και έρης, ό,τι είναι σκέφτερο.
Νομίζω ότι ο Αθάνατος, δηλαδή δεν έχω ένα καρύτερο καρύτερο στον Μαρβό Θένωσ.
Υποχωρήσεις αν είναι σκέφτεροι λόγες να χρησιμοποιήσεις αυτές οι αρχές καρύτεροι καρύτεροι, ειδικά, είναι ενδιαφέρον.
Νομίζω ότι είναι εύκολο να γίνει σκέφτερος από μυθολογία για να δημιουργήσει μια νέα μυθολογία εσύ, ειδικά.
Αυτό που οι αρχές καρύτεροι θα κάνουν, είναι ότι θα προσπαθούν κάποιες νέες αρχές για να υπάρχουν σκέφτεροι σκέφτεροι.
Και θα πιστεύουν, όχι, είχα δημιουργήσει από έναν άνθρωπο στον Μαρβό Θένωσ που κάνει το σχέδιο.
Α whitاء σ πηγάροχ Αυ―Η, στον Μελωγησό Ευφ.
Μερικά, παιδί, ο Πάδης Ιαναρφαίνας δεν δεν τίπολο אותוς게요, στην Πύλη, ενώ στην πενικά,
το πυοιντάνε, το παιδί, την πυίαντάνε.
Αéchί Isn Beasann iosely και ο καιδίες, τον ίτες,τ feito να τον περαιucionesσαι ευαί 올πίστε σκέφτεροι στο μαρβό Θένωσ.
Οπότε, ειρής, που είναι δυσκόρδια στην Ρωμανία,
και θα δώσω λίγο των παιδιών της παιδιούς,
και πάνω στον επόμενο πανθιόν.
Έτσι, αυτή είναι η στιγμή του δυσκόρδου.
Έτσι, έγινε δυσκόρδου Πόνος, που είναι πανθή,
Λύφη, που είναι η αγγέντυξη,
Λυμός, που είναι η αγγέντυξη του Σταρβαϊσίου.
Εντάξει, πολύ σημαντικά.
Και μετά, έχεις μάτσεις, μάρδες, μανσλοτές,
και μάτζαστις και τίποτα άλλες.
Είναι, δυσκόρδια είναι το αυσπροί της αιής.
Λοιπόν, αν δείχνεις δυσκόρδου,
είναι σκέφτη, είναι αυσπροί.
Είσαι να φαίνεται κάποια, δεν ξέρω, νεμές στις παιδίες.
Και δεν ξέρω αν θέλω να υπάρχει αυτή,
αλλά έγινε σε εμένα αυτή η νοσία,
η οποία, λοιπόν, μπορεί να είναι πιο αγγέντυξη,
δηλαδή, στην σχολά,
αλλά νομίζω ότι είναι πραγματικά,
είναι πραγματικά, αν είναι πραγματικά, δηλαδή,
ότι αυτά τα πανθία,
δηλαδή, θα μιλήσω για τα τάτλια,
σε λεπτά λεπτά,
αυτά τα πανθία, were actually just evolution of beliefs of people.
So there might have been a time when the Greeks believed in those primordial forces,
because they had mother goddesses all over the place,
and they were giving them the title Potnia,
which is like the most high lady,
this superficial being, the respected one, whatever.
Later on, this idea was attributed to Hera,
who was the queen of the gods, being married to Zeus,
but it seems like there could have been a time where people believed this primitive religious system,
and then they moved on.
They didn't like it, they just skipped the page ahead.
Why wouldn't they, right?
And they described that one with a myth.
They said Uranus was a tyrant, basically, was a terrible being.
He threw his children down to the underworld,
and then his spouse Gaia was in despair,
because all of her children were thrown down,
and none of them would grow and become the god he would be,
not the man he would be, the god he would be.
And Cronus, along with some of his fellow titans, caught Uranus,
so there is this idea that Creos, Coyos, Iapetus and Hyperion grab Uranus
by the four corners of the horizon or whatever,
and Cronus comes forward bearing a sickle in his hand,
made of adamant, which is maybe a diamond sickle,
and it also, Hesiod describes it as having teeth of a shark of sorts.
It was like this thing,
and he cuts off his father Zenitalia, basically,
he castrates him in order to stop him from being the king.
So that was, you are no longer a man or whatever,
you are no longer allowed to be king.
This notion is common among many civilizations.
For example, I was listening to some, I don't know, Harvard or Yale history course at some point,
and it was this notion that people who were about to have their hair cut off,
they couldn't be kings in the Frankish kingdoms of the Middle Ages,
because they were no longer manly,
and people who had long hair were seen as very virile and very lordlike,
and there was this queen who said,
it's better to cut off the heads of my grandchildren
than to save their heads, because then they're going to become monks,
they're not going to become kings,
I don't want them to become monks, I want them to be kings.
So it's a ritual of sorts, maybe a macabre one,
but that's what the crown is doing.
No, that makes a lot of sense.
I actually did a recent interview with Kip Davis,
we were talking about this.
I've also heard this same problem comes up in the ancient world
with why they're against men, the idea of men having sex with men,
or this idea, it's a power issue, it's not the issue of just,
oh, you're not allowed to do that deed,
they weren't even thinking about the action of a man putting something
in the hole that he's not, but no, no, no, no, no, no.
It's men, their role is to be the top, is to be a power struggle.
Yeah, and so if another man is controlling or overpowering another man,
they look at that and they say, no, that's not good in the ancient world
because of all this power struggle.
So again, it's like a practical, let's say, issue, isn't it?
It is a societal issue at core, it's not a religious one,
they just ascribe religious prejudice to that.
Then let me go forward, then the titans emerge as a new pantheon.
And who were the titans?
They were seen in the classical era as mostly bad,
they were the opponents of gods, but not, I'm gonna argue here,
not in a money-high or Christian or Judean sense, I mean, Hebrew sense,
in Hebrew, Satan means enemy, opponent.
But there were titans who were considered benefactory to humans,
there were titans who were considered worse than devils,
they were considered, I don't know, great opponents
that should be cast aside and whatever else.
Okay, so the titans were basically an interesting bunch.
They were, okay, Anos basically means ocean, he was a sea god.
Koios, Creos, Hyperion, Iapetus, and, okay, yeah,
Koios, Creos, Hyperion, and Iapetus were actually those servants of Kronos
that they would cut Uranus in order, or the sky in order for him to
to subjugate him, etc.
And, oh, I didn't say, basically,
let's go to the previous thing, just for a second, okay.
So basically, there is this Proteus figure
in the primordial pantheon, or Niraeus, sorry, Niraeus,
which is the old man of the sea, and he could be an influence of the sea,
sea peoples, or those pirates that would devastate
all of the ancient Near East and Eastern Mediterranean region.
And my, what I wanted to say about him is basically,
he didn't come out of nowhere, he is not born of Koios,
he is not born of Gaia and Uranus.
Basically, he even has an illegal affair with Gaia at some point,
that he gives birth to Pontus, which is the sea, or something like that,
and other sea deities.
Some of them he gave birth just by himself.
And then, in this myth, there is also, in the myth of the castration of the sky by Kronos,
is also this idea that when the genitals of Uranus, or the sky, fell in the sea,
from that place sprang Aphrodite, which is Venus in the Roman pantheon,
which is basically the goddess of love, and especially sexual love,
not love in the sense of love one another, or something.
It was more material, let's say.
All right, then we have many titanesis, or titanides,
or whatever you call them, which is female titans,
like Thea, the holy one, Ria, the mother of flax,
Themis, which was an ancient deity of justice,
and other deities like Nemocini and Phoebe.
And the titans ruled with an iron fist.
They became what they despised.
They became just like their father, more or less.
Most of them, at least those who supported Kronos.
And Kronos was informed, I think, in Hesiod by an oracle,
but at some other texts by Gaia herself,
that his offspring are going to slay him, and are going to depose him
the same way that he deposed his own father.
So, yeah, just so I can get this straight,
because there's a lot going on here.
Kronos, the sky, gets his testicles cut off.
They fall to sea, creates love, more erotic love.
Yeah, exactly. Aphrodite, which is the goddess of that.
Then he had a son, though, named Kronos.
And Kronos, there's a prophecy about Kronos, who he also is like his father.
And there's another story of Kronos.
You said he's a titan.
He is a titan.
He is the king of the titans.
So he was the major god in the titanic panthen.
And he sleeps with Gaia as well.
He sleeps with his mother.
No, he doesn't.
He doesn't sleep with his mother.
That's what Idipus, which is a hero, much, much later on would do.
But this actually is taken from some near-eastern religions,
like the Hittite panthen, where there is this accession of gods.
And they understand something similar, I'm going to argue.
Why not?
I mean, the final deity there was a deity of the sky
and a deity of meteorological phenomenon, like Zeus is, after all.
And he has some stages of succession
through violent overthrow of the previous deity.
Yeah.
And Kronos was sometimes, there was this collision between him and Kronos,
which is Kronos was the father of time, and his name is so similar to time.
So his time, maybe he ran out of time, basically.
His time has come to an end.
But before that, instead of throwing his children to the underworld,
he just ate them, okay?
He just devoured every child that...
We're talking about Kronos now, not Kronos, but Kronos.
No, Kronos, yeah, Kronos.
Yeah, the titan is eating his children now.
Yeah, sure.
Is eating his own children, who are basically the gods,
the Greek gods that we know today.
And Ria, being a good mother and having gone through all this pain to give birth to them,
was enraged again.
I mean, those mothers can do great things, can they?
And so what did she do?
When she was pregnant with Zeus, she decided, oh, I'm taking a trip.
I'm going someplace.
She went to the island of Crete.
And especially there was a cave there, the cave of Dicte, I think.
And there, she gave birth to Zeus, then she emerged from the cave,
holding a rock, basically, in the...
I don't know, the clothing of the baby or whatever you put around the baby
when it's born, like the blankets or whatever.
And she offered it to Kronos, and she said,
there is your son, Zeus, you can have him.
And he devoured him like the others.
He doesn't know for some reason, but he's not this omnipotent thing, okay?
And yeah, that's what he did.
And Zeus stayed in the cave, and he was noticed by either a woman or a goat,
who is called Amalthea.
So in the later texts, it's a goat.
In the older texts, it should be a human called Amalthea.
It was his nurse or his maid or whatever.
And in the older texts, like Hesiod, we have...
Zeus was born perfect, okay?
But in the newer texts, like...
I'm going to talk later on about the library,
the library of pseudo-apolodorus, he wasn't born perfect.
It's like the infancy gospel of Thomas.
Every goat is a child, and he can do childish things.
And Zeus was no exception.
So Zeus escaped, and he grew to become the goat that he would be.
He was all powerful, he was all handsome.
He had every blessing upon him.
He was a son of Kronos after all, okay?
And Zeus tried to avenge his brothers and sisters that Kronos had devoured.
And this led to the Titanomachy,
which is a major female in Greek mythology.
And they had many other similar aspects,
like the Gigandomachy, which is the battle against the giants.
The Titanomachy is the battle against the Titans.
And Aristophanus, actually the comedian,
the great comedian of the old times,
he wrote a similar myth in which the frogs were battling against the mice.
And those evil mice should be cast down or whatever.
And it was like mocking all those myths, you know?
It was like, yeah, of course, those things happen.
But don't you know about the mice fighting the frogs?
Yeah, that's funny.
So what was the Titanomachy?
As we said, it was some sort of battle or a combat or a war.
Was it like a mental or like a spiritual battle or a physical battle?
So I remember that you had a podcast in which you talked or your guest and you,
of course, being a great contributor about how gods in ancient times had physical properties as well.
Not only being perfect spirits.
They had bodies.
They had, all right.
So I cannot imagine that Hesiod's talks here about Zeus throwing or maybe not
to some other henchmen of Zeus throwing, I don't know, like spiritual rocks
or something or boulders to the Titans.
No, he threw real rocks to them.
And the funny thing is we know where there were the capitals of the two kingdoms fighting.
So the gods had Olympus or Olympus and the Titans had Othris,
which is this other quite smaller, more, I don't know,
unimportant mountain in central Greece.
And they resided there.
So maybe this is like a mythological way of saying, yes, there was this war
and those two religions clasped.
And then after that, we remember the old religion.
But of course, we have a new one now.
We believe in different people.
They were losers, you know, whatever.
OK, then the Titanomachy lasted for 10 years.
Hesiod knows that, Apollodorus knows that as well.
It is quite funny because some fundamentalists would say,
I saw Jesus yesterday.
He was wearing the same clothes that he's described in Zons after.
OK, but of course, it lasted 10 years, says Hesiod writing in 700 years before the common era.
And then Stude Apollodorus writing 100 years after the common era says it lasted 10 years.
I mean, you just repeat what it said.
It doesn't make your argument better or something.
You just got inspired by somewhere.
Then the Titans got deposed, defeated in this war.
Zeus devised this plan in which he nourished his allies.
At this point, the Cyclops and the Hunters were also under the banner of the gods.
He nourished them with the same food that the gods would receive,
which was Ambrosia and Nectar in Greece.
But of course, we have all those heavenly nourishments that you will find in other cultures as well.
Then Zeus decided not to be like his father.
He says that like emphatically, I'm not going to be that malignant being that pre-existent.
But he is a great judge.
So at the beginning, I spoke of how Jebtha and the Ammonites, his pics of God as being that great judge.
In England as well, there is this notion that there is this Lord Justice or whatever they call,
some supreme judge is there.
Basically, it's not a religious concept.
And the Son of Man that is going to return and judge us all and cast us,
he will do us into the lake of fire or whatever.
It's actually a very social aspect.
It's not a religious aspect.
It's just a judge sitting in front of an audience, judging who's right and who's wrong,
and deciding their fate.
It just took some religious, let's say, clothing on it, like put a religious tunic,
and then you became this, this becomes a hole in the ocean, but it isn't.
So I'm coming now to describe a bit the gods, and then I'm going to talk about Apollotorus and some criticism.
And then that might sum up everything basically.
So the gods were an interesting bunch.
They were members of a dysfunctional family, let's say.
There were siblings, there were children of Zeus, there were cousins,
there were all sorts of relationships between them.
So who were they?
There were not 12, as many things believe, but later on there would be 12 on Olympus,
and the others ones didn't live in Olympus and things like that.
But okay, I'm going to describe the major ones.
So we have Hestia, which is basically Vesta in the Roman pantheon.
She was one of the oldest deities.
She was a goddess of the altars, of family, of the earth fire.
She was quite a forgotten god, because many Greeks didn't venerate her that much,
but she was still a goddess, I should say.
She was still considered one of the big guns that we have.
Then we have Demeter, which is basically mother earth at 2.0 or something.
It's like the reintroduction of a mother earth deity,
because Demeter might be Gaia is the mother or something like that.
And she is called by Hesiod, the feeder of many.
He also names her the earth's mother.
But how can she be the earth's mother?
Because the earth was Gaia.
And Zeus, by the way, Hesiod tells us, existed always.
He always existed.
How can that be?
Cronus didn't even think of him before conceiving him in the belly of Rhea.
So where is this ever-living god?
Hesiod contradicts himself in his texts.
Then Hira was basically the queen of the gods.
Hesiod calls her the gold sandaled.
She wears these shoes, these sandals that are made of gold.
She was the sister and wife of Zeus.
She was the high lady that is expected to be one of the famous, one of the glorious, whatever.
What I find quite interesting
is how Hesiod calls Hades.
He calls him Aedoneus, which is possibly a link to Adonai,
which is like the high god of the east, maybe.
But he was a death date.
He was linked to the underworld.
Then we have Poseidon, the blue-haired one, or the cyan-haired one,
as he said.
He is called the shaker of land, or the owner of land.
He was basically the god of the sea, but he was also causing those earthquakes.
He also made Odysseus suffer, because Odysseus didn't like him much.
I mean, the Odysseus for 20 years, Odysseus is traveling in the Mediterranean,
and Poseidon is still angry at him.
He didn't redeem himself enough.
He's unworthy to be back home or whatever.
So a few more gods.
We have the twins, Apollo and Artemis, which are those very young deities.
They are always young.
They would, of course, they would go on to have children, but they are also described as being very young.
Apollo is the far-shooting archer, the patron of arts, the patron of light, of oracles, of prophecies,
and Artemis is basically a virago, or a virile maiden, which is like
a fertile young lady that decides not to have children, and instead she would go on the wilds
and go on the woods and hunt animals, and she was basically a bucolic deity, let's say.
Then we have Hermes, with whom Hesiod calls the bringer of fame, because he was basically
an angelic type deity.
He would be the messenger of the gods.
He would have these sandals, which would allow him to fly, having wings, etc.
And there was this very interesting, I'm going to tell you this little myth, I think.
There was this interesting myth.
Apollo had a huge herd of cattle, and Hermes being his younger brother, he gave it to him,
and Hermes was bored with being just, I don't know, a herder.
Because Hermes is also, he's depicted usually holding sheep or cattle, because he was like a
shepherd, or a good shepherd, or whatever, or he was, but he wasn't that good in that
particular myth I'm just referring to, and he was very bored.
He was like, I don't care about those cattle, I'm going to sell half of them, and I'm going
to make myself a fortune, and go to Las Vegas, or whatever, and I mean, okay, go to, I don't
know, Athens, Corinth, whatever.
Then, and then he hid in a cave, after he sold some of the cattle, he hid in a cave,
and he got it, he got it a cat, and he got it a tortoise, and he made the first lyre,
and he started playing the lyre.
So, Apollo sees that half of his herd is missing, his furious, his, I'm going to kill this guy,
he's not my brother anymore, or whatever, you know, this drama, and he goes there to the cave,
and he listens to Hermes playing the lyre, and he's gobsmacked immediately.
He's like, I want what he has, I want it, it's mine.
So, Hermes, in order not to get punished by Zeus, who was, who would be the final judge,
okay, he said, okay, I'm giving up music, I'm just a trickster, I'm just a play thing,
I just do those, so Hermes becomes a pattern of commerce, and also a pattern of the thieves,
and night walkers, and he's that strange daddy, but Apollo gets music out of this ordeal,
and there is this thing that attributes get squashed over, and one takes attributes of the other.
Then we have Athena as well, which is the patron goddess of Athens.
She is also a virgin maiden, she's the spear bearer, she's coming out of Zeus's head in a myth,
she was born like, she had a virgin birth, she's the bright-eyed, or the old light,
because the old were sacred to her, and then we have Aphrodite, the one we talked before,
this titanes of sorts that became goddess, and Aphrodite, who was the goddess of eroticism and love,
he's a very interesting one, because she was legally married to Hephaestus,
who was the forge of the gods, who was crippled at his feet, he couldn't walk,
his feet were handicapped, whatever, he had some disability,
but he had wild escapades with Aris, and Aris was this god of war that Homer tells us,
everyone hated, but Aphrodite apparently didn't, and they gave birth as a couple to two terrible
lesser deities, the Demos and Fovos, which is basically dread and fear, which is described what
happened to the hoplites fighting in a phalanx during battle, they were full of dread and fear,
so those two gods came upon them, and they overtook their minds, and that's how they
described this thing, because Aris was a god of carnage, he was not a god of war specifically,
because Athena also was a god of war, but Athena was a goddess, sorry, a goddess of strategic warfare,
and Aris was a goddess, Aris was a god, sorry, I'm messing their genders here, dammit, so Aris was
basically this god of tactical warfare, and carnage, and blood, and this heat of battle,
and whatever else, and he's called the conqueror of cities, and the piercer of seals,
and then let me, so we have basically two more gods, but I'm going to elaborate a bit
on Hephaestus before I go on, so Hephaestus, or Vulcan, as the Romans would call him,
was this god who was a crafting god, and he made many crafts, and he was associated with
volcanoes and volcanic activity, because I mean, it's hot down there, and that's what forges are,
similar to volcanoes, and there is this idea that one day Hera had enough of Zeus,
and she gave, she had a virgin birth, she gave birth by herself to Hephaestus, and the boy was
was disabled at his feet, he couldn't walk, and Zeus comes back home, and
and he's in rage, why would you do that, and I mean, Zeus loved Hera, even if he had escapades,
and crazy, and other crazy things, so he throws Hephaestus from the top of Mount Olympus,
or from the top of the heavens basically, and Hephaestus goes down to earth,
but when we talk about, let's say, god and man hybrids, god-human hybrids,
Hephaestus does not come to mind too many people, but he was one, because he went to the island of
Limnos, he fell down there, and he became the most famous forge there, he became rich actually,
by selling weapons that were in perfect, of perfect condition, and other drinking vessels,
and whatever else, I mean, he made all sorts of crafts, and he was very beneficial to his followers
specifically, and there is this myth, I'm gonna talk about the last deity I'm gonna refer
in the main Greek pantheon, which is Dionysus, this dying and rising god, okay, and in this myth
after Hephaestus became the god that he was, Dionysus was the one who brought him back to
Mount Olympus riding a donkey, so Dionysus saw the man, saw the god Hephaestus being crippled
and disabled, he couldn't walk, and he just found a solution, have a donkey, I'm gonna carry you
to Olympus, I'm gonna make a talk to Zeus and to Herat of taking you back, and that's how he became
a god again, and he was not a castaway deity, okay, and Dionysus is of course, is of course,
one of the most important deities, he was one of the later, let's say,
I don't know, arrived visors, people who arrived at the party, he arrived late, possibly from the east,
there are millions of ideas where he came from, I would argue possibly the Asia Minor region, like
there was this myth that he was born near Mount Pangeon, and around this place there was a king
who was called Lycurgus, and his people accepted Dionysus and they loved him as a god, they venerated him,
they understood his teachings and his blessings and his messages, and they wanted him to be the new god
there, and Lycurgus was like, no, that guy is not a god, I don't like him, so he said,
fetch him, and I'm gonna execute him, and he couldn't cut him though, he could cut though
many of his followers and make them suffer, torture them or whatever, and Dionysus said,
you know, I'll be back, something like that, he said, now it's time for you to receive your own
blessing, my dear king, and what he did, he made the man go mad, the guy murdered his own son,
because he thought he was a vine basically, and vines and ivy, so the vine plant and the ivy plant
were sacred to Dionysus, and he thinks, he's cutting down these dumb plants or whatever that have
encircled his palace, and then he comes to his right mind, and he says, he just killed his son,
and he's lying there, and what did I do, and things like that, and then comes the prophecy that
if you want your suffering to end, you should kill your own king, and that's what the people did,
and Dionysus was reinstated in this kingdom, and then he conquered all the rest of Greece
with his worship, and finally he became reinstated, let's say, to the importance that he was.
Now, I will move forward to the library of Apollodorus, and then I'm going to give
the final remarks, which is about some criticism of ancient Greek religion during antiquity, so
I'm going to quote here, so sky or uranos was the first who ruled over the whole world,
and having wedded earth, he begot first the hundred-handed, as they are named, bryarius,
geese, cotus, who are unsurpassed in size and might, each of them having had a hundred hands and
fifty heads, after these earth bore him the cyclops, to which argis teropis brontis, of whom
each had one eye on his forehead, but then sky bound and cast into tartarus, a gloomy place,
but them, them, sky bound and cast into tartarus, a gloomy place in Hades, as far distant from earth
as earth is distant from the sky, so at this version of the myth we have no chaos,
so chaos is dropped, though it is it is that important for Greek cosmology, for chaos to exist,
but this writer, the pseudo apollodorus, writes in an era parallel to the first Christian writings,
and he's writing basically, I call him the synoptic gospel of the pagans, because he writes a synopsis,
like a brief story of all of the Greek mythology and the many traditions and whatever,
and but he loses chaos, because the political and social background in which he writes
is the roman empire, is a perfectly structured system, it's not the chaotic small greek city
states that existed when this guy Hesiod was writing, this separate Hesiod was writing,
all right, and all right, and then he, and again he begat children by earth to read the titans as they are
named, also the titanides as they are called, but earth grieved at the destruction of her children
who had been cast into tartarus, persuaded the titans to attack their fathers and gave
their father and gave Cronus an adamantine sickle, and they all but Osian attacked him, and Cronus cut off
his father's genitals and threw them into the sea, and from the drops of the flowing blood were born
furies to wheat, electotysiphonium megera, and having dethroned their father, they brought up
their brethren who had been hurled down to tartarus and committed the sovereignty to Cronus,
but he again bound and sat them up in tartarus, so he became like his father,
and when his sister Ria, and since both earth and sky foretold that he would be dethroned by his
own son, he used to swallow his offspring at birth, his firstborn Hestia was swallowed, then Demeter
and Hera, and after them Pluto and Poseidon, enraged that this Ria repaired to Crete, and when
she was big with Zeus, and brought him forth in the cave of Dicte, she gave him to the Curites,
and to the names Adrastia and Ida, so the Curites here are, I didn't talk about that much but maybe
at a later time, at a later, so there were these Orphic sort of deity whom Hesiod does not know,
so basically they were hitting their sails with their spear in order for Cronus not to hear the cries of
Infant Zeus, while he was staying down there. Okay, so
daughters of Melisius to Norse, so these names fed the child on the milk of Amalfia, so Amalfia here is a goat,
and the Curites in arms guarded the babe in the cave, say, classing their spears
on their shields in order that Cronus might not hear the child's voice, but Ria wrapped a stone in
saddling clothes and gave it to Cronus to swallow, as if it were the newborn child, but when Zeus was
full grown, he took Metis, daughter of Ocean, to help him, and she gave Cronus a drug to swallow,
which forced him to disgorge first the stone and then the children whom he had swallowed,
and with their aid Zeus waged the war against Cronus and the Titans. They fought
for 10 years, and Earth prophesized victory to Zeus, if he should have exalized those who had been
hurled down to Tartarus, so he slew their gallorelles, their jailorelles campi,
and lost their bonds, and the Cyclops then gave Zeus thunder and lightning and a thunderbolt,
and on Pluto they bestowed a helmet, so by the way the helmet was made of a dog's skin,
it was a leather helmet, and it made him invisible, because death is invisible, okay,
and on Poseidon a trident, armed with these weapons, the gods overcame the Titans,
set them up in Tartarus and appointed the hundred hunters their gods, but they themselves
cast lots for the sovereignty, and to Zeus was allotted the dominion of the sky, to Poseidon
the dominion of the sea, and to Pluto the dominion of Hades, so here is a new version of the myth
where they also cast lots, and these lots give them their place in the universe, so Zeus becomes the
god, the god of the sky, Poseidon becomes the god of the sea, and Hades, whom
a pseudo-apollotaris calls Pluto, became the lord of Hades, the dominion of the underworld,
so it was also common that Poseidon was sometimes called the Zeus of the sea,
and Hades was called the Zeus of the underworld, of the afterlife or whatever,
and that's how there is this, it's not a Trinitarian aspect, but it's this idea that there is
there is three manifestations of god in various forms, and I didn't talk about the
the Orphics, but I'm gonna tell you just this little story about them, and then I'm going to the
religious criticism to wrap everything up. There was this Orphic myth, so the Orphics were
a mystery religion, a religion for the initiates and things like that, in which when Zeus threw his final
thunderbolt to the Titans and he made, he turned them into asses, okay, Zeus was not a man who would waste
his products or whatever he did, the mess that he made, so he made, he created the human beings,
Zeus was called the father of men and gods, he created the human beings
partly by some matter and partly by the asses of the titans,
and the Orphics had this notion of the original sin, which was, you know what, we need to clean ourselves,
we are partly titanic, we are titans, we're having something bad within us, so it's the same notion
as the original sin, it's god is by nature, but we need to to cleanse him of his dirt and make him
a proper servant of the deity, okay, so let us wrap things up directly, okay, so the first
the first criticism that came
about those beliefs in mythology and those crazy aspects of Greek religion
came from philosophers actually, who were the first ones to say,
um, stop it right there, it's something's, something's wrong here, so one of the oldest
critics was Xenophonis, and Xenophonis has this great poem, which is called The Mocking Poem,
or Silly in Greek, and he said, Homer and Hesiot have both ascribed everything to the gods,
those things that are shameful and worthy of criticism, to still to commit adultery and to deceive
each other, as they said, many were the unjustifiable acts of the gods, they stole to still to commit
adultery and to deceive each other, but if mortal humans thought of creating gods,
they would give them their own clothing and voice and body, but if bulls had hands and the horses
and likewise the lions could possibly scribe with hands and create artwork like men,
horses would draw horses, bulls would draw bulls, similarly they would scribe the ideas or the
images of gods, and their bodies they would make the same as the ones they themselves have,
each one accordingly. The Ethiopians believed their gods to be carvinost and dark skin,
and the athracians white like oles and red-haired because they say they are related to them. Gods didn't
show from the beginning everything to mortal humans, but those humans who searched for things
for a long time, they shall find the best solutions or explanations for things.
There is, he also says, that's why Xenophonis was called the first monotheist basically,
because in his famous fragment 23 he says, there is one god amongst gods, could it be Zeus,
could it be another one we don't know, and humans who is the greatest, who is neither similar
in body to the mortals nor in the mind, he has a whole watches, he has a whole things,
he has a whole listens to, but avoiding pain in his mind he holds on to everything, he always stays
the same without moving and he does not allow anyone to move from place to place, and also in his
fragment 27 he has this strange notion that everything comes from the earth and everything dies
on the earth, okay, and basically this this is quite an interesting notion, some say that the god in
Xenophonis is a perfect circle because he watches with his entirety and he does all, he does whatever
he wants basically, he is an obviously important deity there. Then a few years after Xenophonis was
Heraclitus, whom I personally, I don't know, venerate as a god, no I don't, but okay, he was a very
clever man, he said, by having a well-learned mind you have nothing to be taught by that,
having a well-learned mind has nothing to teach a person, otherwise it should have taught Hesiod,
he names him specifically, and Pythagoras as well as Xenophonis and Hecateus,
so he agrees that Hesiod knows many things, but they are not good, they are not useful,
he also says that teacher to most humans was Hesiod, they know about him how many things he knew,
that one who knew not about day and night, that they are the one and the same, so basically I imagine
Heraclitus staying up all night and he's like, oh it's the same thing, it just got dark, then it isn't,
and of course Hesiod speaks about day and night as primordial deities,
their personifications of day and night, but maybe Heraclitus understands
him literally there, he says, yeah, you don't know that, they cannot be different deities,
they are the same, they are physical manifestations of time, so he also has this one thing in which
he speaks about people participating in holy ceremonies, he says they clean themselves
through another practice by becoming dirty with sacrificial blood, similar to if one being dirty
by clay would enter a clay pit to clean it off, it would seem manic if someone of these humans
would speak in support of someone acting that way, and they wish upon these statues similar to someone
who would pray to house walls without knowing what gods and what heroes really are,
so basically, okay, you can pray to your stage, you can pray to your icon, but okay, all right,
pray to a house, it's better, maybe you will receive better things, the house is going to protect you
from, I don't know, from the evil spirits that lurk or from the natural phenomena that
happen in the world, and then the final line I'm giving on Heraclitus which is the famous,
it's his most famous fragment, basically fragment b53, in which he speaks,
he's mocking basically Homer there, because Homer was the first one to say that Zeus was the father of God,
gods and men, and Hesiod also says that Zeus is the father of God, gods and men, and he says
war is the father of all, not Zeus is the father of all, war is the father of all, so strife, struggle is
the father of all, and the king of all, and he, he uses it as a personification, that's why I'm saying
he, not it, okay, he has shown some into gods, so god shows who, so war shows who is going to become
god, through the struggle of the pantheon, different gods are emerging, basically,
some into humans and some he made slaves and some free men, so basically,
if you lose a war, you cannot become a god, you cannot become a free man,
you are going to end up in a miserable place, and thank Hercules or whatever,
that we did end up as slaves in ancient times, it would have been terrible, all right,
so two more things I'm gonna show you, I'm gonna show you here, the first one is
this one that Derek is gonna show you now, is basically this guy whom I find greatly interesting,
he is called Theodoros or Theodoros, whatever Theodor is the equivalent in his name, the Atheist,
and can you imagine like any other religion, but the ancient Greek one having a guy who wrote on
religion, he wrote a book on gods, and he's called the Atheist, and he was the first Atheist,
I mean, that he said, I'm an Atheist, I don't believe in those things, and the funny thing is,
his name is Theodoros, the gift of the gods or the gift of god, because it can go either way,
the gift of god or the gift of the gods, and he was a funny guy, I mean, he gave many arguments to
other philosophers, and he said that you can commit crimes basically that are punished by religion
as sins, but they are not sins because you have to take into account the aspect under which you
commit those crimes, and finally, I'm concluding here with Jesus as a manifestation of Greco-Roman gods,
So, in the Gospel of John, we have many IM statements in which Jesus would
tell us what attributes we can ascribe to him as a deity, and he says, I am the bread of life,
which is nourishment, of course, and this one is similar to fertility cults like
Demeter or Ceres, because the daily bread in the prayer is basically nourishment, it's like,
let us not die of salvation, because people died of salvation during these times, then he says,
I'm the light of the world, which is basically Apollo, Apollo was the god of light,
and he was also Helios or Saul in the Roman pantheon, he saw in Victus in particular
the unconquerable sun, the undefeated one, the great one, whatever, and Baal as well during the Roman period
has become this sort of sun deity, but Baal is quite older as well, then he says, I'm the door,
and this one, I find quite interesting because I think he refers to this idea that the Romans knew,
not the Greeks per se, but the Romans surely knew about Janus, Janus was a Roman god,
he was a two-faced god, so he had a good aspect and a bad aspect, he was the god of love, let's say,
at one hand, at the same time he would be happy to kill those who desecrated his place, like Jesus
would do to those who were in the temple and were desecrating the temple by selling and buying things
and whatever, and Janus in particular was the god of gates, doors, and he was also
this deity that was placed in between heaven and earth, so he was god and human, sort of human
at the same time, then he also says, I'm the good shepherd, which is, as Derek will show you an image of that
of Hermes holding sheep and cattle, and also this deity, Pimandris, from the Hermetic texts, which is
a bit older than Christianity and is a very interesting yet mysterious cult of a religion,
by the way, in which text I'm going to add here, god is both male and female,
because god can be everything, and then he also says, I'm the resurrection and the life,
which is Zeus or Phanis, the primordial resurrected being in the Orphic tradition,
or Adonis, whom part of my name is inspired by, I mean, you can, I don't know,
call my mother on that, and then, because I mean, she came up with it, and then Dionysus, who was this
dying and rising god, Osiris, the Egyptian god, and Persephone as well, a female goddess, who was the spouse
of Hades, and being the wife of Hades, she would resurrect yearly from spring to fall, and from fall
until winter, she would be down in Hades, and thus the nature would be sad and nobody, but it's the same
thing with Easter celebrations, because, you know, in Christianity, it basically is a circle of
celebrating the same and the same festivals, the Christmas festival, the birth, and then the death
and the resurrection, it was more or less the same, and it happened more or less during the same
period of the seasonal period, and then he says, I'm the way and the truth and the life, again,
the truth, the day it was Alithia in the Greeks, or Veritas in the Romans, Hermes was a god associated
with Rhodes, because that's where many bandits would go, and you pray to Hermes for some bandits that
respect him not to kill you, or whatever, it's quite crazy, and then you have Zeus as well, who was a god
of life, and a heavenly person, or whatever, and then he also says, I'm the vine, and you are, I don't know,
and then this one is Dionysus basically, because the vine was calling to Dionysus, and he describes
himself in a way that people of the ancient period could understand him through their own
myths, and as I've said, like Apollonius of Tyana and Jesus, they were trying to enter into the
club of the followers of the ancient gods, Greeks and Romans, and then they would take over and they would
pose their own agenda and go forward, and whatever. Okay, I think that was it, Derek, I don't know if it
took a bit more, but I hope it was interesting. Oh wow, yes, absolutely interesting. I have never taken
that close of an examination on the gods in the Greco-Roman world, or Greek world, and then
of course later on we find this evolution into the Roman world, so I have to say I'm extremely
thankful for the time and energy you put into explaining these things, because I'll be honest with
you, I purchased some new books, right? Over here I have Herodotus, right? If I start reading it right now,
if I start to read it, I'm not going to have a clue on what a lot of the words and names
like that even mean, because nobody has explained to me the name of a god, or the name of a mountain,
or a city, and how it associates itself with that god, or whatever. I got some poetry as well.
Like what? Apollodorus. Oh, all right, okay. So, for example, I got Apollodorus here, okay,
the library of Greek mythology, I got Livy, the early history of Rome right here,
you know, Metamorphosis, okay. Of Ovid, yeah. Ovid, yes, Metamorphosis. Actually,
this idea of transfiguration, or Metamorphosis, or whatever, is, I would say, it's mostly Roman,
but of course there were some transfigurations in the Greek myths, but Ovid was the one who
would go to transfigure everyone, basically. Yeah, yeah. I also got Calaro and the Ephesian story, so
I picked up some Greco-Roman literature, but another one right here that I'm interested in dying
is the Satirachon, which probably plays along the Gospels. There's some scholars who recently
pointed out that it's being satire even to the Gospels. There's a part where it talks about the
Cochroing, after the third. My father gave me actually a book recently, which was the Onology,
which means basically, the Lodzi means, let's say, the, I don't know, like cosmology is like the study
of something, okay. So, the honest part in Greek is like the Don Chiyology, and basically it was about
guys mocking Christians on their God being an us, a donkey, basically, okay. Yeah. And it also had the
Aleksamenos Grafito and those things, and it was like satire. There's actually in, in Gnostic, so this
book right here, the Evil Creator by the Aimee David Litwell, he goes in, and as you can see in the front
the front cover, the head is like a donkey. It should be Seth, actually. Seth, yes.
That's the point he was trying to say, and there was a lot of antagonism to Jews.
They mocked them and said, you're God, you don't want us to see him. You want to hide him,
because he has the head of a donkey or something. Yeah, what kind of thing are you hiding there?
Yeah, sure, sure. The other one I have is just ancient Greek philosophers. I have,
but by whom is that one? This is by, it's a Canterbury classics. Okay. So, as far as the
authorship goes, maybe it's a collection of works. It's a collection, I believe it is. Yes,
and this goes into, just I'll name them, just so you know, the first,
Asclebades Plato, Apology. Yeah, Apology Plato, Crito Plato, Symposium Plato,
Phaedrus Plato, Phaedo, or Phyto, Plato, Poetics, Aristotle, Rhetoric Aristotle,
Memorabilia, Xenophon, Hellenica, or Hellenica, Xenophon in Chiridion, Epictetus, Letter to the Menosius,
Epicurus, Principal Doctrine. My point is, in all of this, is simply, you've given me inspiration to want to
read this stuff more. I'll know when I hear a philosopher say something about a god, it can kind of help me
navigate the world a little better so that I can understand what's going on, but also
Yeah, I'm glad about that, you know. Yeah, I'm very thankful for this, but it also makes me want to see
about connecting dots between the Greek world and those ideas, and the biblical world, the
Even the Hebrew Bible, there are ideas about chaos, which in Genesis 1
disordered. You know, when I read about Genesis 1, no academic critical scholar that I talk to is thinking
X nihilo. No, this is disorder and God is coming over and he's organizing. So this is why you find
there's a
ikeastic structure in Genesis 1, where Genesis Day 1 correlates to Genesis Day 4. Genesis Day 2
correlates to Genesis Day 5, and Genesis 3 with 6. You know, you've got water, and then you've got, he separates the
waters over here, and each one, like he drives the land, land animals are created in Day 5.
Each of them is correlating with each other. There's organization on purpose, so the chaos is becoming orderly,
and that seems to mimic and replicate that. It also gets interesting when you talked about, I'm just commenting on
some cool things you said. When you talked about Kerenos and then Kronos, Kronos eating his children,
I was thinking of that story in Revelation 12. You mean Uranos and Kronos, so it's Uranos, sorry.
That Uranus, the planet, okay? Right, right. Yeah, yeah. So I'm looking at the woman in Revelation 12,
who's giving birth in the wilderness and running from the dragon, the dragon's ready to devour the child.
Who is described in very bad language. Right. Spoiler alert for fundamentalists. Yes, I think that,
correct me if I'm wrong, is this dragon running off the myth of Kronos because
he's wanting to eat his children, it seems, or it might be something to this? Well, that sounds like
an interesting one. I mean, I've read the book of Revelation back when I was younger or something,
but I cannot tell you right now because I don't know how they're in front of me, but maybe in a later
part we can do that thing. Yeah, I'm just thinking about that too. The fact that Hades is mentioned a lot
in Revelation, it literally names the place Hades, it makes you wonder, is it a place,
or is it the God Himself who is being cast down, you know? So on this notion that I spoke before,
like in the beginning of my presentation, basically, I said, but Jesus was a healer, how can
Christianity is in need of sickness and suffering people and stuff. So I think it's because of that,
because in the Greek pantheon you have a place for a disabled person like
Hephaestus and he can be a God, he's a perfect God, he has no flaws except he cannot walk, okay? He needs to
ride on a donkey or something, right? But Jesus, unfortunately, and the tradition of Christianity
that emerged from him or Paul most likely, is in need of suffering. So if you have nobody to heal,
then healing gods are not necessary. If you have nobody to heal and you have doctors to heal you,
basically,
yeah, he's programmed. Yes, okay, we must do this again. Thank you so much. If you found this interview
interesting, go help Deimosau. Go help him out, go give him a one time. The link is in the description
on his PayPal. We want to help him out, he could use the help. We want to see him come back here to
MythVision. So thank you so much Deimos, and I look forward to our other episodes that we plan on doing.
Sure, if you allow me a final thing, it would be you. Ah, Miss Vision.
That's for you and the audience. Thank you so much. Yes, thank you. Yeah, he's right, never forget.
We are MythVision. Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon, not only to support us,
but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier,
all on the Patreon, Early Access. You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these
scholars, and you're helping MythVision grow.
