Professor Carl A.P. Ruck from Harvard University, a philologist, publicly admitted to thinking
that Jesus is a complete myth, that Jesus didn't exist. Now, I at MythVision cover this stuff all
the time. This was brought up on Gnostic Informants YouTube channel. Make sure you subscribe to my
friend. He needs the help. Let's grow the community. And he's bringing on amazing scholars,
like Carl A.P. Ruck. He's a legend. But he comes away and publicly says he doesn't think Jesus
existed at all. Now, I think there was probably a guy, but I wouldn't put too much money on it. I
would just say this is the way things look to me. But here's an expert who is also saying Jesus
probably didn't exist. Tell me what you think about this episode. But I'm saying like Orpheus,
just like Jesus, they both die singing hymns. Interesting. MythVision podcast is a question.
Derek, my buddy Derek, if you haven't subscribed, please subscribe. Anyways, what are some of the
strongest connections between the story of Dionysus and Jesus? Both turn water into wine. Both of
the Son of God. Both more, please. Tell us. Well, tell us some of your findings in these parallels.
Well, one has to consider what is Christianity, and it is a Hellenistic religion. It was
very popular to espouse exotic ethnicities and their deities. So that there is a good reason
why Jews are not Christians, because Christianity is not a Jewish religion. It's a Hellenistic
religion. And it has merely incorporated the exotic ethnicity, which gives us a certain amount of
of validity to these religions. It espouses an exotic Jewish ethnicity, but it's telling the
story of a Hellenistic deity. And a Hellenistic deity is essentially Dionysus.
Wow, that is a really interesting analysis. And I totally think you're on point.
I think there is a lot of things you can say about these two different gods that
it's pretty, I think it's pretty clear. You know, and thank you for that answer, by the way.
Thank you. Was there a historical Jesus? Or was it just the story?
I would say there was a historical guy. What do you think?
I think it was just a story. Wow. So you are a mythicist. Yeah.
Yeah. This is a hot, this is breaking news right here.
Dr. Carl Ruck, who's a philologist from Harvard,
has just said that he thinks this is just a story. This is just myth, guys. This is big.
Well, it's hard to prove the existence of a deity because they don't exist in our dimension.
And so you can't expect them to be physical remains. There are no physical remains that
prove the existence of someone who lived the life reported for Jesus.
And, you know, I've always been fascinated by the mythicism. I've bounced back and
forth from mythicism and historicism. The mythicists are on to something. Like you just
mentioned, there is not really a lot of historical evidence for a guy in the 30s.
He must have left something behind because as a Jew, he would have been circumcised.
And so he must have left his foreskin. And as a matter of fact, in the medieval period,
there were various monasteries that explained that they had the foreskin of Jesus.
That was merely because it was physical proof that Jesus had historical
existence. There is no historical proof. Yeah, like people use the shroud return thing. It's
like it shows up in the 14th, 13th century. And you're like, oh, yeah, this is him. This is it.
Very strong desire to have physical proofs that there was someone who actually existed.
Right. He writes nothing down. He doesn't get mentioned by anybody until 40,
30, 40, maybe 50 years later by people who never met him, like Paul never met him.
It's interesting. I'm not going to say I'm sold on the mythicism thing,
but I think there's a lot. I think it's definitely plausible. It's not impossible.
But I think it could go either way. But you know what? The important thing is here,
whether you think there's a guy or not, the story about him, the Gospels, are completely
myth. I mean, these are the same mysteries like Paul even mentions that you get in other
texts from different cultures. It's a repurposing and another version,
a retelling of the sacred myths. Even the Old Testament has the story of Joseph being
sold for 20 shekels and then Jesus getting sold for 30 shekels. Judah does the sale.
Judas does the sale. You have all these parallels from the Old Testaments,
but not even just the Old Testament from other places like Eshman. You get this God, Eshman.
Phoenician healer God who dies. He's not a God at first. He's a regular human. He's born.
He's the eighth son of a king named Psyduck. But anyways, he dies. He goes hunting and dies.
And Athena, or I think it's a start day, but it's like the equivalent of Athena,
raises him up to heaven, makes him a God, and he comes back. He's the healer. He becomes a sleepyus.
That's the Phoenician version of that. So you already have this idea of a healer God who dies
and rises. And his name is even a pun on anointing. Like the word means oil, shmone. I mean,
that's what that means oil. So like his name is a pun on the eighth and oil. So I bring that up
because I think it's kind of clear that these ideas are prevalent in this time period. It seems
like a natural evolution of religious ideas where Christianity comes out of. It doesn't seem like
it comes out of nowhere. It comes out at the right time, in the right place, and it just makes,
it fits. It fits perfectly. Interesting. Now this might tie into what we're getting at here.
Derek's back with another $2 super chat. Thank you, Derek, for this. How did the agricultural
mythology evolve? We were sort of getting in that direction anyway, where you have all these
mysteries that are based on agricultural, but also other things as well, different layers.
How does it evolve into, they're just being the story and we forget about the agricultural aspect.
It's just a story now, but a guy dying your eyes. How do we evolve that way?
I mean, do you have an answer to that? It's a tough question.
Yeah. Yeah. How about this? How do we learn all that stuff that they handed, the sons of
God handed down, all that magic, all that sex ceremony in Enoch, those guys with the gigantic
penises called in Greek, the horse. Hippofalloi, right? The horse penis. It's a very concrete.
You're saying, what's the actual connection? I like it. It's scientific. It's through the crops,
and according to Dr. Rucks, massive work in the past, beautifully done. There's a chemical connection.
And so, yeah, what do you get in this stuff that molds on the edge of this rye,
you know, this grain? What do you get from it? It's a very practical experience, and it does
come from agriculture, right? That's why it's demeter. It's the whole process. It's because
there are quantum models that you cannot understand according to Vagoya, the Etruscan, right? The
prophetess, the civil, Egeria, right? There's she who lives, right? She have many names. It's her cup.
Why is it her cup? Dr. Ruck was talking about the significance of the seed, man. These are the
seeds of fire, they call them, that we're using, right? And this fire, it's from Uranus. It's from
Uranus. And when it hits the water, the stuff, the moisture of creation, this stuff produces
Aphrodite, right? She from the foam. It's, is that agricultural? Having sex is agricultural.
I mean, we all got here by being, we all got here by being, not to cut you off. Fertility and
agriculture were almost intertwined always in all these myths. Right, right. Isn't it true,
Dr. Ruck, that we all got f***ed into existence? That's the way apparently it all started.
Please tie this where as much. Just, you know how YouTube is. They're just, you know, you're good
though. It's a horrible thing that we have to face as living beings, that we cannot live without
destroying. We eat dead matter. We would like not to eat, but we have to eat. And when we eat
something, we've killed it, or we are killing it. There are various dietary regimes that try to lessen
that by having vegetarian fare and so forth. Because we, it's a horrible thing we have to
face. But no, we go out and we kill an animal and they know as flesh. And there's no doubt
that we're living because we've killed something. And that's where they get these sacrificial rights
of, you know, bringing out the, the, the, the, the goat or the bull, who's the victim. And you
bring them up in front of, you have the fire lit and you have all the people dancing around it.
And then they sprinkle the blood on the altar and they, the priest does his thing and there's
all these different, that seems like that is sort of a way of expressing the natural
cycle, I guess you would call it, of life where you have to sacrifice life for life.
Yeah, you have to give something back if you're taking something.
Yeah, it's really, it really is a, it was a, like a necessary way of life in the ancient world.
Basically with planting of crops, what is it that you give back? What you give back is,
since we can't use the word, let's say defecation, but it's primordial magic. You,
you have to smear the defecation on the fields in order for the fields to be fertile to give you,
give you something to eat. Yeah, you have to imagine people in the ancient world
repeating this process every year. So the whole point of cuisine is to disguise the fact that
that you're, I mean, eating something that began that way, but we're really just eating the stuff
that smeared on the fields. And what's so crazy about this is that in the modern world,
we're so detached from that now. You don't have to watch your food get slaughtered anymore.
You don't even have to watch the crops get picked. You just go to a store and just buy your,
you just go to a restaurant and you get a whole plate full of food and you don't have to think
about it. But like in the ancient world, they had to see all the process happening.
Yes. They would throw mythology around it and make it sacred and make it like, you know,
this is how you, this is how you live. This is the world that we live in. This is reality.
Yes. It's pretty, it's pretty profound if you actually really think about it.
As far as agricultural, now that we're on this topic, I'm going to get to the next
super chat in a second, but I just want to stay on this topic for one last second.
Lord Snappy, you're next. But what do you think about this whole idea of there being grain
and grape, like the, the mysteries, like the, you know, the Eucharist, you got the bread and the wine,
but in Eleusis, you have Demeter and Dionysus, who is grain. The other one is the vine,
grain, I said grape, vine and grape. And then down in Egypt, same thing, you have, you know,
the moisture and fire, which is also represented by Osiris, who tells you to, you know, drink the
wine and eat them, eat the cakes. What is the purpose of this dualism and the, and the agricultural
mysteries, I guess you would say? Simplified food into the liquid food and the dry food.
And they both have a similar relationship to defecation and toxicity.
And they both probably have a similar relationship to an agency for altering consciousness.
So that you pass from this configuration of reality to other configurations of reality,
in that, in their natural state, they're edible, but you can manufacture on the grape
by the activity of the fungus, an intoxicant and analogous. So that would be a fungus,
recognizable as a fungus that grows on, on grain. And from that, you can extract a powerful
mind-altering substance. Wow. And you've got the ergot and you have the wine. They both,
they both come out of, they both, they're both really going back. They're like spoiled food.
That's what it is. But you can actually turn it into a mood-altering connection with the divine
substance. Yes. Wow. We're getting somewhere now. Um, yeah. Oh, by the way, James Frazier
even mentions that the Egyptians would grow corn inside of the tomb of the deceased so
that the resurrection of the growing on the corn was the person who died resurrecting in another
form. That's mind-blowing. Like that, the fact that these people were thinking about this stuff
and I don't know, there's a lot there, a lot going on there, but it's, it seems like that's
where you get this sort of magic, the birth of the term magic from. Is this what they're doing?
They're doing these secret rites, you know? Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds
of videos that I have worked hard in high quality content that are not in public domain. They're
only on the Patreon. You will also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions,
ideas, or just want a private chat. You have that access with me. Also, I'm trying to do more
traveling to educate people from more academics and expand what kind of material I do produce on
MythVision. This is a full-time gig and you're helping the community by joining. I'm trying to
put together more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices or ways in which they're
harming society. We are educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient
texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many shows do. So please, I could use your help
and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
