Okay, I'm striking back again. I joined in on the live stream at Neil Gnostic Informant.
Go subscribe as he was interviewing Dennis R. McDonald on Debunking Mythicism.
I was a mythicist for many years, and I don't close the door to it, but I find it to not be
where I land today. I know this already triggers some of those who are staunch dogmatic mythicists,
but either way, I got to ask the questions of Dennis McDonald, and he was responding. You're
going to check that out right here. See, Dennis specializes on the Gospels reacting or responding
to the Greek literature, the Iliad and the Odyssey. He points out in his mimesis criticism, but also,
just as a historical fact, that the Gospel authors had to know the Greek epics and they're reacting
to them according to Dennis, which is what makes him stand out. He also has a PhD from Harvard
University, which might be something to take into consideration. Let's see what Dennis has to say.
Don't forget, subscribe to Gnostic Informant. Derek from MythFish and Podcast says,
why do you think mythicism is so convincing, Dr. McDonald? I was convinced originally because
I found tons of legend and thought maybe it's all legend. Oh, well, I wish I had your name.
Oh, I think maybe it's Derek with his vision. I think that that's an excellent question, Derek,
and I'm going to parse it. The second sentence is, I think you giving your own answer. There is a lot
of legend making and mythologizing going on in the Gospels. And the question is, how much
mythologizing is going on? Can it explain everything? And so I think that's why mythicism
is convincing is because the church and the academy have squashed or quashed, sorry, the evidence
that the Gospels are imitating classical Greek poetry and mythology. That's an embarrassing
to the church. It's embarrassing to the church and it's somewhat embarrassing to some scholars
that they didn't see it earlier and so that they don't want to go there. So I think mythicism has
some clout because it's valorizing a half part of the debate. And also many of people who are
mythicists are not only atheists, but they're also burned out with Christian religion,
as I am too. And I can understand why they want an alternative intellectual way of
understanding these texts that doesn't have to be burdened with the nonsense of Christian
orthodoxy. So I can see why it's convincing. The question is whether it's historically
convincing, whether it's literarily convincing, whether it accounts for all the data. So I think
there's a an irrational agenda in some cases going on with mythicists that they don't want
simply to acknowledge the ambiguities of God talk and a deity and religion,
but they really are taking, I think, unfair potshots at Christian religion.
Wow, interesting, interesting answer. Thank you for the question. But he's also had another
follow-up and it's does your work in memesis criticism help determine what may be historical
and what may be legend, myth, and the examples? Oh, yes, it's so, Derek, I love you even more
than I did before. I'm going to give you an image that I think is so important. I lived in Denver
on the front range of the Rocky Mountains for 18 years. And in the winter, the winter clouds could
be so heavy and low that you couldn't tell if you were living near the front range or in the flats
of Kansas. But when the sun came out on a sunny winter day and burned off the clouds,
you saw the magnificence of the mountains in the background from Pike's Peak in the south to Long
Peak in the north and the whole front range, heavens and so on. And it was magnificent,
but you never would have seen it had you not had the dissipation of the clouds. In my view,
memesis criticism is the sun that burns away the clouds, that lets one see the traditions about
Jesus that are relatively unpolluted by mythology. And that allows one to explore the mountains,
to hike about, to do scientific calculations of their height and so on in a way that would not
have been possible had the clouds been there. So in my view, memesis criticism actually helps
the cause of the historical Jesus inquiry, because it helps us understand why some of the what we
would now consider to be nonsense, which these authors did not perceive to be nonsense. They
were playing a different kind of game than a historical game. But once that material is removed,
we've got a new front range to play with. And these are ranges that I'm going to change the
metaphor, I have to. These are the texts and stories and so on that must have a derivation
that is different from the Greek mythology. So it really breaks my heart that memesis criticism
has been used by mythicists to say that Jesus didn't exist. In my view, memesis criticism
allows us to see more clearly what in the gospels has some plausibility of having been
generated by historical Jesus, though even then, not without mythologizing. To put a finer point
on it, there are places where already the Q document is imitating not only Deuteronomy,
but or not the Odyssey. And I can say more about that. Can you please give us this example of
the Odyssey just real quick? Yeah, what does this sound like, Neil? There's a man who went on a
far journey and put his servants in charge. And then he left and some of the servants were obedient,
but one of them got drunk and was eating with the drunkards. And when the Lord of the house
came back, he dismembered him. He cut him into pieces. Odysseus, when he left for Troy, put his
servants in charge. Most of his servants were obedient, even though he was gone for 20 years.
But Melantheus ate with the drunken suitors. And so what does Odysseus come back and do?
He chops him up into pieces. The parallels are just too striking that people in the ancient world
would have to see the unusual pieces of that story and say, yeah, this is Jesus is retelling
the story of Odysseus where his own ends. But of course, that's mythologized.
And that's reflected in the Q document, you think? Yeah, that's coming. Yeah, it's coming out of the
Q document. That's that story is in almost every version of Q, not just mine. That is so fascinating.
And guys, there's books about that in the description if you want to look more into that.
But yeah, thank you for that question. Thank you for that answer. But he actually has another
question. And go subscribe to MythVision if you haven't yet. Why doesn't mainstream
New Testament scholarship take mythicism seriously? Some mythicists think it's the
guild working against them like they do, do you? I think there's a certain amount of jealousy.
But I don't think that's a good answer. I think the guild has been so oriented toward
understanding the New Testament in terms of Judaism and with certain methods such as textual
criticism, establishing the text, certain forms of literary criticism that are not comparative
with Greco-Roman world so much, but with the Jewish Bible, form criticism, redaction criticism,
some kinds of coherent literary criticism that now is being enriched with feminist interpretations,
gay interpretations and so on, that the reference tools and the education that people have when
they're going into, say, ministry and learning about the Bible or the graduate school or whatever
is ill-equipped to talk about mimesis or Greek poetry. So I challenge you and any of your viewers,
including Derek, find an introduction to the New Testament, please, that mentions Greek poetry.
Find an introduction to the New Testament that talks about mimesis criticism.
Go to the Anker Bible Dictionary, six volumes, double columns, and see if you can find anything on
Greek poetry, Homeric epics, Athenian tragedy, or even Virgil's Aeneid. These things are entirely
absent from the discipline. So what happens in the discipline is we move old pieces around
and think we're going to find an answer to the puzzle when we leave in the box half of the puzzle
pieces that would work. And when somebody comes along and finds inconvenient truths,
that is, in this case, I would say the imitations of Greek poetry in the Gospels,
they are dismissed. We don't have the methodologies or the reference works to support that kind of
an observation. And that's why I think my work on synopses of epic tragedy in the Gospels is so
important. It gives a reference work out there where people can make their own judgments. It
establishes mimesis criticism as yet another tool that is, like others, limited in its value,
but it's valuable to uncover things we haven't seen before. But I've been told by others that I
shouldn't be surprised that some of the antagonism to my work is coming out of jealousy. After all,
Darwin had some of the same antipathy, but he did origin of species and so on. And just to show
you guys, if anyone is like thinking this is this is crazy, this is not true, check this out.
In the Latin section of the Dead Sea Scrolls, there is a quotation from Virgil's Aeneid.
So there we have slam dunk evidence that at the very least, these texts were floating around in
Judea and they knew about these texts. So that question is done with. We have physical evidence
in the Dead Sea Scrolls that they knew about Virgil. And the next line, and also found there was a
bilingual list of Latin and Greek Jewish names in addition to so that we know it was bilingual.
It's not just, they weren't just reading Greek, they were reading the Aeneid. And we have a book
of the Aeneid that was found among the soldiers remains at Masada. So there you go. That's the
end of that question right there. If they knew about it or not, they did. Derek, once again,
strongest evidence for the historical Jesus in Paul. Good question.
I think I skipped a couple, but I'll go back. No, no, it's okay. I don't know how to get at
this, Derek, in another way than to say that he is claiming that he receives traditions about Jesus.
Now, where he gets them and so on, we don't know. He's not getting them from the Gospels.
He apparently is not getting them from Q. He must have gotten them somehow from...
Now, here's another issue, of course, and Derek, you know this. In Galatians, Paul says that he
spent two weeks with the pillars of the church in Jerusalem. Of course, this is before the Jewish
war. Now, I have a friend who says, maybe Jesus went to Paul. Maybe Paul went to Jerusalem to get
instructions about fishing in Galilee. Where's the best place to cast your nets? But it's much
more likely that they're talking about Jesus' tradition. And so that would be the best I could
do. But apparently Paul doesn't know Q. He's getting stuff from somewhere else. And I think
there are about eight places where Paul has the statements that are very close to what Jesus
says in the Q document. And twice he says, he's reading from the Lord. Now, which Lord is he
referring to? Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that I have worked
hard in the high quality content that are not in public domain. They're only on the Patreon.
You will also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas, or just want a private
chat. You have that access with me. Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people
from more academics and expand what kind of material I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full time gig and you're helping the community by joining. I'm trying to put together
more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society.
We are educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient texts and
mythologies and history in a way like not many shows do. So please, I could use your help and
you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
