Hello, MythVision. Hello, ATP Geopolitics. This is a co-stream and I am really, I guess, privileged to
have been approached by Derek to do this together with him. What are we talking about and why are
we talking about it? Well, Derek did a video the other day where he interviewed his dad. His dad is
a former special forces veteran. He is a veteran, he's not a former veteran. He is a veteran. Derek
interviewed him with regard to the conflict in Israel, Palestine and that kind of blew up as a
video. It's such a divisive subject that say 50% of the audience are like, yep, totally love what
you said there and what you're talking about and the way it was couched and 50% of the audience are
like, ah, never want you to speak about this again. Don't ever speak about this again. So Derek reached
out and said, I want to speak about this again. But in hopefully a nuanced way where he gets to
investigate what he thinks and why he thinks, what he does, and in a way that we can all talk about
this in a frank and open and hopefully sensitive and empathetic way, just to seek greater understanding.
And in that vein, all I would ask, I'm sure Derek would ask as well, is that in the conversations,
this is really divisive subject, as you know, in the conversations, the live chats and the
discussions below in the threads, just try and be as respectful as possible. This is, as we know,
really sensitive. There's some terrible things happening around the world. And just bear that
in mind. Anyway, Derek, that by way of introduction for my channel, by the way, Derek runs Mythvision,
a channel that normally looks at the history and theology of religion with a critical eye.
And I've been on his channel talking about stuff like that with all the books I've written on
that. And my channel is about philosophy. And I've got a geopolitical channel as well,
where I've been talking about the Ukraine-Russia war for the last year and a half. That's the
context of who I am. And for Derek, for my audience, that's who you are. Sorry, I've taken up all the
time over to you, my friend. No, no, no, you're not. You're going to be taking up much more
time as we go, because I love your thinking and your reasoning skills. You're critical.
I think you're very fair and balanced. And in fact, I reached out to you because
I think it's important to express my biases as we're going to get into this, like, where I'm
biased, where you're biased, and how we come to try to fairly respectfully... This discussion is
hopefully an exit interview on me even discussing this. I need to explain why I even made the video
to begin with, right? I want to ask everyone who watches MythVision to bear with me. I know this
is sensitive. Everybody has probably an opinion on this. Wherever you land, you have your view.
And I'm going to be way more nuanced today. And the reason I'm going to be way more nuanced is
I've learned a lot in the past two and a half days, three days, since I made this video.
Just in that amount of time, I haven't even been scripting. I've been reading books, articles,
watching a lot of views, videos from both sides. And I realized that this is a hot, hot mess.
This is not a simple thing. I also need to say a little bit about me so that people can understand
maybe why my video initially with my father even was put out. When I was 14 years old, America was
attacked. 9-11. I'm not even entertaining what I would call conspiracy theories here. My father
went to war and I thought Jesus was coming back when all that happened. So there is a sense in which
my reaction to this was a trigger. It was a trigger from my own personal experience dealing with
the terror that happened due to extreme jihadi, I guess you could say, Islamic ideology in some way.
And so I wanted to say that that I was so worked up when this first happened. There was no room
in my mind to try and think of this rationally. Number one, number two, I also don't know
even with the study and I have in two and a half days, which is nothing. This is way deeper and
way more complex and there's so much to learn. That's when I realized, oh, hold on. This is bigger
and way more messy than just my simple reactions which come from a bias of mine,
rightfully so in my mind on Hamas. My views of Hamas have not changed. I just want to say that up
front, that is my bias. My views of them and what they did right is right and wrong is wrong to me.
And when I say that, what I find is usually there's a conjunction in the sentence from people who go
right, but and then they want to go back and start bringing up history and bringing up
examples of other problems and then it goes back and forth and it never ends. And so I
started realizing, oh my gosh, what is going on here? This is the most divisive, polarizing thing
I have ever seen in my entire life. And before I shut up here, Jonathan, allow you to guide us
because I think you're sober and you're not triggered by the events in the same manner maybe
I have been because of my father having to go to war and almost dying in several situations and stuff
that I have been approached by friends on both extremes. I would call it the extreme Palestinian
side that leads to what I would say are what could be potentially and I haven't investigated them
exhaustively. Conspiracies, so much so that like, let me just throw this out there that I've heard
from Muslim scholar friends. I'm not going to name names because it's nobody's business.
But that Israel is not or Israelis are not really Jews. It seems that the gist is really the
just Europeans. These aren't actual Jews, which seem to hint at anti-Semitism again,
not knowing the history of why they left Europe to begin with in light of what happened with
there's so much complexity to this history, but they're not really Jews and they're really
trying to eradicate all the brown people in Palestine and that Netanyahu created Hamas in
order to assassinate, to cancel out these peace treaties to try and like, how far do you want to
go where everything we just saw is also Israel's fault. So even Hamas is Israel's fault.
You know, and that is the extreme on one side. Then you have the other extreme that you might find
where everything is Palestine's fault and it's really, you know, you might even catch them say
that fallacy that like really Hamas is Palestinians, like all of them are in this extreme category
and really they're just a problem and you get where this can go.
So I'm going to interrupt you there, but I may do it. So this is something that we need to know
about. It will need to realise. So there's this fallacy that takes place on both sides and it
is the subset theory. So it can best be exemplified by saying, look, all all cats are animals,
but not all animals are cats, right? And you see this on both sides. I've called out people for
saying, look, all Hamas are Palestinians, give or take, there might be some non-Palestinian
Hamas members, but all Hamas are Palestinians, but not all Palestinians are Hamas. So you can't
tar all Palestinians with the Hamas brush. But likewise, and I had an argument with someone
today who who was very much like had seen the whole hospital claim thing and we can talk about
that a little bit later and said, right, screw, except with worse language than that is like
screw Netanyahu, screw Israel, et cetera, et cetera. And it's like, hang on, all, you know,
Netanyahu is an Israeli, but not all Israelis are Netanyahu or, you know, not all Israelis are
extreme Israelis. So you can't tar each of these sides with the extreme brush. But Netanyahu is
is a very right wing Israeli leader that many, many people in Israel are have have been very
unpleased with displeased with over the last, you know, many, many months, because he's he's
sent the country in a direction they didn't want. And so to hold him, you know, or to tar
everyone with with his brush is the same as to tar every Palestinian with Hamas brush. So sorry,
carry on. No, I'm glad you step in to point this out because there's nuance and there's the temptation
when a side is hurt. And I saw that interview. In fact, let me share this just to show our
audience. There's a few interviews that I really hope people will take the time to go watch. They
excellent. Excellent. And both of these. Oh, my gosh, this. Look, if you're a person like me who
really wants humans to not suffer, who really doesn't want to see this keep happening, right?
It's worth hearing this out. I love what this guy here, Yuval Noah Harari said. He said something
like the victim can also be the perpetrator. Like it's not black and white always. And like
in the other thing is like right now, everybody sees red and your bias is going to come out and
the team that you're on is right. And the other team is just dead wrong. And it creates so much
hate and division right now that six year old who was stabbed the other day by some, you know,
nutty 71 year old guy who who hated him because he's a Palestinian like
worldwide. We're already talking about two groups that are minorities in the broad
scale of the world, two groups, Jews who already have gone through quite a bit in World War Two
Palestinians that have been going through quite a bit. And look, it's only going to get worse
if people on both sides can't try to empathize with the other side. And that's what that video
the other day that I was triggered and upset. And it really is showing like, I absolutely
condemn the actions of Hamas. And I wanted to try and give some nuance in my anger
on how scary this is now that war is happening. How do they, what is the proper procedure? How
do we get in, save hostages, help the situation diffuse, but also justice is sought out against
the people who committed this crime. I think we'll, yeah, yeah. And I think we'll get there
or at least we'll try and get there. I mean, here, this interview was excellent with Harari,
who wrote Homer Dares, Homo Sapiens, Homer Dares, 21 lessons for the 21st century,
really like a good thinker. He expressed, as you said already, he said most people cannot
comprehend that it is possible to be both a victim and a perpetrator at the same time.
And you can say that of both sides here, right? But he also said, look, I am, and if you don't mind,
I'm just going to over. Yeah, please, please. Yeah, because this, this reminded me of you,
when you said, look, that righteous indignation I had when I saw what Hamas did when they went into
Israel and did all these terrible things. And then you did that video because, and you were full
of emotion, you were triggered, you were angry, you had that righteous indignation. And if you
fill your head with anxiety or anger or any kind of prevailing emotion that can take over, take
over you, then you squeeze out rationality. And it's very difficult to have rational conversations
with people who are angry with people who are totally upset with people who are completely
anxious. You just, it's just very difficult. And this is what Herari said, which is basically,
and he said, in answer to Anastasia Campbell's, you know, both of them did such a good job of
interviewing, Rory Stewart, who sits on the right and Anastasia Campbell, who sits on the left,
they go across the aisle in this and do a very good job. And he was like, look, I am so angry,
I don't know what the answer is. Or, you know, I've known people who have been killed who have
been peace-loving, wanting to fight for peace and so on and so forth. And so it is, it is worth
understanding how much we can be, we can suppress our rationality in light of just really overarching
emotions. And the second interview that these guys did was with a Muslim ambassador. I don't
know if you've got that there as well. I'm sorry, not Muslim. Palestinian, I do apologize, Palestinian,
Palestinian ambassador, which was seeing it from the other side of the coin. And that was a fantastic
interview as well. Both of them are so, so good to get a flavor of what it means to be on each
of these sides. And he's the UK Palestinian ambassador. But going back, if I may, I don't know
if I'm interrupting you for where you were going with that. But just going with the flow, you know,
it's just with all of us, all of us watching this and us two, and I said this in a video the other
day, we need to check our biases. Who are we? And what are we bringing to our moral evaluations
of what's going on? I'm a white heterosexual, humanist, atheist philosopher, middle class from
the UK, right? What does that mean? And Britain's been involved historically with this whole situation,
right? What does that mean? What am I going to be bringing to the table that is going to affect
the way I evaluate this? That is very different from someone else, from maybe a Muslim from
Lebanon, or, you know, a Jew from New York, or whatever. People will be bringing there and
your political biases as well, to the table. Just be aware of that. Just always ask, not what I
believe, but why I believe it. And if you can, if you can just check yourself sometimes and say,
right, okay, I think I'm believing that because of this, then you get a better understanding of
who you are and how you come to believe things. Anyway, that's all I wanted to say about checking
biases. I think it's just super, super important. And that was kind of like, I think you had a
realization. You said it yourself in that video, which is like, you know, I'm saying this because
I had these experiences, and that was driving you to say what you said. And I get it. Even
some people had to dip. They said, I can't listen to this anymore. It was so triggering hearing them
see my anger and reacting. And I think if anyone listened to it from the start, which some of
your audience hasn't, I started out with what triggered me about the actions that took place
by Hamas by noticing intellectuals online and people that I look up to defending. This wasn't
like I defend Palestinians. As you talked about, all Hamas are Palestinians. Not all Palestinians
are Hamas. When you know about Hamas' ideology and some of the extreme levels they're willing to go,
even killing civilians, it's not just by the actions we see now. You can go back in history and see.
I think that even in historically, the PLO from the West Bank, you know, they've had some actions
too, where I even told you over these past few days, I went back and revisited Osama bin Laden's
ideology. And he targeted, he said that civilians in a democracy, they're all guilty.
Everybody under a democracy, including children and women, are targets. So no wonder there's no
worry on killing people who aren't just soldiers. They will attack anyone with that kind of ideology.
You see that overlap with Hamas, extremism. And I saw intellectuals that I appreciate and value
defending Hamas because of other, I'll call them sins, even though you and me are both secular
humanists because of other sins. And I don't think there's any justification for those actions
that occurred that day, even though I know there's trauma and deep rooted issue on both sides. And
I didn't factor that in in terms of what I'm dealing with, what just had happened. And people
would say, well, you're only giving one side of the story. And yes, at the moment I was,
but that got lost in the whole video from me being upset from the start that these people were
defending the terrorist actions that just took place. And I'm going, whoa, are you like, look,
I get trying to understand and inside with Palestinians that that part blew me away,
that they were actually standing for Hamas. Does that make sense on what made me want to speak up?
Because, I mean, that's, I think it's a simple use of employing or it's a simple employment of
the moral value system of consequentialism, I think. So consequentialism in morality,
just to let people know my, my framework of morality is that abstract ideas don't exist out
there, they exist in here. So there's many, many times. And we construct morality. And also I'm
going to add that add on to that we construct abstract ideas like borders, right? So national
borders don't exist out there, other than on maps, but the maps are representations of human minds.
And we construct the ideas of borders. And then, then we have international frameworks,
but international frameworks come from us having morality that we construct in here,
we get together with friends who have like-minded moral value systems. And then we say, we then
hopefully, as humanity evolves, we move into city states and nation states, and you have democracies,
and you say, right, I'm going to vote in someone who represents my moral ideas. And then you vote
them in, and then hopefully your morality gets represented by your own government. And then
your government, as we evolve even further, we have international organizations like the EU, NATO,
UN, OSE, whatever, and they create further moral laws out here. But these are things that arrive
that by consensus. And the reason I'm saying all this is because it will be very important for
where we're going to go with the importance of democracy later on. But the idea is that there
are these legal frameworks, but they're only as good as our ability to enforce them. Like,
they don't exist out there. We've constructed them, right? But once we've constructed them,
we then have to enforce them and do something about them. So it is very easy to say, well,
Hamas haven't adhered to the rules framework that we all think exist, right? Or that does exist in
those structures I've talked about. But then Palestinians would say, hang on, well, aren't
there double standards here? Because haven't we been trying to hold Israel to account for
not adhering to those rules, for doing illegal occupation, for doing all of these things that,
you know, breaking the Hague, Geneva Convention, breaking all these different rules. And they said,
we've been stymied every time we've tried to do something about this. And the power,
those big power brokers, the US and the UK stop us from being able to do X, Y and Z. And so rules
based systems are great, and they sound great, but they're only as good as our ability to enforce
them fairly across, you know, the different sides here. But sorry, I know there's a really long
sidestep there, but I just wanted to say, what a lot of Palestinians or pro-Palestinian people
might be doing with regard to Hamas is excusing evils for a greater good, which is to say they
are willing to pull the lever so that one person dies to save five, or maybe just to let five
people die to save, you know, a nation or whatever. There is this element of like, yeah, we admit that
that's bad, but the greater goal we have, we see as being really good. And sometimes it means that
they, and this happens so much in life, is that people shout about the means to the end,
and you kind of had this cognitive dissonance, this idea like, oh my goodness, like, the end
goal is good, and I want the end goal, but how we get there is a bit crazy, and I'm having to sit
there and justify like the murder of civilians in order that this like goal up here is realized,
and it just gets into a big old moral mess. Do you see where I'm going? Yeah, this is why I called
you. I was like, okay, hold on. The rabbit holes of the complexity of this matter really will show
your bias. It really will pull out what you end up siding with and why. Who do you empathize with
more, and then you go down different rabbit trails? Like, we'll have endless opinions in the comment
sections, I'm sure, even during our stream, apartheid, occupation, ethnic cleansing, you'll
hear this stuff happen from the Palestinian side, and then you might have the other side, like,
hey, we were attacked 1967, we had nowhere to go, Britons brought us in, they promised us land,
we ended up getting land, especially during colonization. Now we're here, we're not going
anywhere, and no matter what we do, there's an attack that keeps coming, and now we have to fight
to defend ourselves, and it goes on and on and on, and then it's like, okay, soon as someone does
try to commit, as I was looking through some of the history, try to make peace and have a peace
treaty, that person gets assassinated by someone within their own factions that aren't interested
in what they were wanting to agree upon. Is it the 1967 agreement, or are we going back to 1948,
and saying, they do not need to be on our land at all, we need to get rid, like, oh, it's just,
it's super, super complex and polarizing, and it creates so much tension and hate.
I've never seen anything like this, Jonathan, and I've seen you talk about the Ukraine-Russian war,
you have experience in discussing these things, and you're also a critical thinker,
you're not taking sides, you're interested in the facts and trying to get people to see
the nuance complexity, because once you sent me those interviews, and I heard the UK ambassador
from Palestine, the Palestinian, I empathized, there were a few moments you could tell, like,
they talk about in the show where he's not budging, he has certain views, and the interviewers did a
good job on pointing that out, and they did it in such a soft, gentle way that allows you to see
this person, and I felt form, I felt for Palestinians, and then you listen to the Israeli,
the liberal Israeli who's saying, we do not like our political structure, we do not like the people
in charge right now, they're creating a division even in Israel right now, the people in Israel
are, like, divided because of this administration, and the chaos that's happening, and how, look,
they're not happy with how, how did this happen to us, this could have been prevented under his
administration, here's how Hamas got in, what the hell happened, you know what I mean, so, like,
there's internal blame, I'm sure, on both ends, toward the people who did the actions, or could
have prevented the actions, or whatever, and why aren't they going to the table and shaking hands
and ending what's happening right now, I just feel really, really bad, because I don't want my words
in my other video, to possibly be used as hate rhetoric, because there's plenty of that on both
ends, and yeah, I think, you know, as long as we're empathetic, and we realize that, I mean,
this is the, the issue is that, that it stands complicated, and it comes down to land, essentially,
and it's, this is an age old issue, you, maps have changed over, over, eras, right, the European
map has changed, and it's quite interesting, a lot of people often say that, oh, it's always so
war-torn, that Palestinian areas, like, it's no more war-torn, it's no more bellicose, and violent,
than any other place on the planet, particularly Europe, I mean, you look at what's happened for
Europe, for, in Europe, for thousands and thousands of years, right, that you, you have big wars to,
to try and establish your power over land, but you don't have a right to that land, because
rights are constructed here, right, so what really happens is, the, the mightiest win, and eventually
that gets normalized, and then you draw lines around where you control, and you say, right,
do we all agree on that, you agree on that, yep, do you agree on that, yeah, we all agree on that,
let's draw a map, right, and should we have an international organization, yep, okay,
should we ratify those maps, everyone agree that those are the lines, yeah, but you can go back,
like, hundreds of years, that, isn't someone to be like, hang on, like, I don't agree with that,
like, you just invaded, do you know what I mean, so we've got a situation in this Levant area,
in Palestine, Israel, whatever you want to call that area of land, where you've had,
you know, we can go back to the Philistines, and the Canaanites, and the Jews who were around at
the time then, and before that, or we could go further on, so you can have Palestinians say,
hang on, this is our land, because, and they'll draw a line in time somewhere, but that's arbitrary,
it's like, what about 200 years before that, and you can say to Jews, we'll say, we'll go back to
maybe ancient biblical times, or a particular point in 1967, or whatever, and say, no, that's the
reality, and you're like, actually, that's arbitrary, so the, sorry, and I'll let you speak and say,
so the end result is, there are a bunch of people who live here, we need to sort out you guys living
here together, in harmony, because otherwise, you've got some options, and these are what extremists,
like Smotrich, who's a right wing, the finance minister of Israel, has said, right, either you
leave, you become slaves, or we kill you, right, and that's basically what Hamas is saying as well,
so like, we can't have that, so the other option is somehow living together in harmony.
I think that he might be, and I don't know this, I don't know the guy, but can you imagine
exactly like the interview you sent me, there's, it's like a bull looking at red,
like, there is no mercy in their heads right now, and it sucks, because as we watched that
interview with the UK ambassador, the Palestinian UK ambassador, you could see the rhetoric sometimes
lead to like, were the victims, and they're the perpetrator, and that's it, like, if you do not
agree with that, you are morally wrong, you are the bad guy, that's kind of the hint you get,
right, and then the interviewers did a really good job of trying to express,
like, the other side, we've interviewed several from the other side, and if you just listened
to them without that, since I'm not an Israeli, nor am I a Palestinian, I can back up, I mean,
I had my biases, right, like, but I can back up, look at this and go, oh man, what did I step
myself into, I inserted myself into this simply because of what happened with my father, and
what's happened to these people, I could empathize with this whole notion of a terror attack that
occurred, and not even knowing, in fact, just to make one comment on this, I did not realize
any of this, in fact, now I know what's been really going on, at least I have an idea
of the turmoil that's been going on in history, I did not even know about this, like this,
till this attack happened on that Saturday, so like, you know a little bit, you know that
there's little skirmishes you hear, I don't even think most of America has ever even known
what's been going on till now. So it's funny you should say that, not funny, like funny weird,
I thought the other day that the silver lining to this absolutely terrible set of events,
it could be really positive, as in, and I don't know if this is just really
wrong of me to think so, but it's rather like that for the greater good, it could be that the
silver lining here is that so many more people get a better understanding of the geopolitical
and historical state of affairs in that part of the world, that actually there is a greater
understanding in all, and there will be this pressure, international pressure, much greater
international pressure from many countries for both peoples to get together and have to sort it out,
because all the eyes are on this, in a way, especially with social media, I mean Twitter
is a fire with this kind of stuff, and there will be a pressure that might end up
more likely leading to a favorable outcome for both sides, but here's the thing,
there has to be compromise, and compromise means that both sides will have to give up
something they want, you will not find an answer to this without both sides compromising,
and at the moment there's a situation that seems to be that neither side wants to compromise,
is not prepared to compromise, Hamas is not prepared to compromise, or the Palestinians in
general aren't prepared to compromise because of the history of the region for the last 100 odd
years, and the Israelis aren't prepared to compromise because of the horrors that Hamas have just
injected into Israel, and the raw emotional reaction to that, because you can understand
that the Israelis go, right, they talked about this in the interview you mentioned,
and sorry I know there's a lot of talk, but this is called the Hamas trap, which is Hamas
would have known what Israel would have likely done in response to doing those terror acts,
right, so if Hamas knew what Israel was going to do, or could have a pretty good guess at it,
then it means that either they don't care about their own population, and they want to use them as
a means to an end, that's kind of a trolley problem, right, they either don't care or they
wanted Israel to do that to their population, because by doing that to the population it opens
up a whole can of worms that leads to what exactly what Hamas want, which is total chaos,
and no peace process. Now I'm going to throw you a curveball here, because I have been listening
to different voices, right, and that Muslim scholar friend of mine who reached out to me,
and I think some of his ideas, I mean just hearing him was like, whoa that's extreme personally,
I would need some real clear cut evidence, and not this just be a conspiracy, but I can already hear
the kind of response coming from him for example, and what he would try to do rather than,
why do we keep bringing up Hamas, this is how the tension is, right, why do you keep mentioning
Hamas, is it because they're Palestinians, I mean like the kind of tension that comes up,
because Hamas have done those things, right, and they are the de facto rulers of at least Gaza,
right, so Gaza, so, but he'll flip it, I'm not going to name his name because I don't want to
embarrass anybody, he will say Hamas was created by Netanyahu, this is how far some of this ideology,
and I would say propaganda on either side, which is creating a bigger division, Netanyahu created
Hamas, and in fact may have wanted them to invade, how did they get across the border,
so that when they invaded, guess what, now it's time to go in an attack, and Netanyahu gets what
he wanted from the very beginning to ethnically cleanse the Palestinian from the land, this is
the rhetoric, and I'm not the one who made this up, I'm telling you what I'm saying,
so this is really similar to actually quite close to the free will debate, so this is the causal
change, right, which is where you go, look, this person's just murdered my child, right, and you
can say, well, we understand why they did that, they murdered your child because of this kind of
person, because of these experiences they had in their life, and because of these genetic
influences, whatever, I was like, yeah, fair enough, okay, that may well be true, but this
guy's just murdered my child, right, and I need to deal with that, right, we can talk about the
causal variables going back in time, but we still need to deal with this here and now,
and we still need to either treat this in a way that we want to act so that it's a deterrent,
so it doesn't happen again, or we need to solve this problem of this guy either trying to murder
my child or murdering my child, do you see what I mean, so whether Netanyahu caused Hamas to do
that, Hamas have done that, right, and therefore, how do we solve them, how do we stop them doing
that again, how do we solve this issue, how do we solve the Netanyahu issue as well, you know.
Why I feel like I got in trouble with half my audience, the other half I think saw it and
didn't feel that upset about it, and I don't think it was nuanced, I had emotion, of course,
when I did it, but like, this is the complexity I asked, I asked a hard question, and in many of
the comments when I first started, I stopped answering comments after the first day because
it's just too much, it was this, okay, Hamas did this, got it, okay, I understand your voice,
Palestinians are suffering, and there's a lot of pain and anguish and history behind that,
I get it, what do you recommend the solution to this terrorist attack and the organization
of people involved in this, how do you as a nation redeem that, how do you get justice,
how do we do this, and when I ask that question, I'm asking sincerely with the tone behind it,
with the hope that they go, okay, we will agree something has to happen, not, oh,
the immediate response I kept getting is just stop the apartheid, stop the occupation,
so that's not an answer. It's easy to get angry, it's easy to get angry, but it's more difficult
to throw a constructive solution in. Right, and I'm asking for a constructive solution,
I get it, I want those other problems to be resolved, but I don't think it's realistic
to ask for the solution and to have someone just throw up, well, stop taking the land,
that doesn't solve what just happened here, and I don't think going and blanket bombing innocent
people or aiming to try and get bad guys who are hiding in these civilian locations is the
greatest idea either, I don't know what the answer is, and that's why this hurts so much,
because there are so many people who didn't ask for this. So this is why it's worth, I mean,
I hate to refer back to those interviews again, but actually it was really interesting in the
Harari interview, where they're like, what do we do, what do you do now, where do you go from here,
and he's like, I just don't know, and that was, you know, quite eye-opening. This one, right?
Yeah, yeah, exactly. And here's someone who's got a lot of good ideas and is a deep thinker,
and he was like, I really don't know where we go from here, I'm so hurt, I'm so angry or emotional
or whatever, I've had all these experiences. And going to the Palestinian ambassador,
this is where we return to ideas of democracy, and it might be worth just explaining a little
bit. I'm no expert on this area, by the way. And like you've said about yourself, Derek,
so this is the blind leading the blind to some degree, but Hamas, so just to let, if people don't
know what the, and there are problems with these sorts of maps, I do understand they're not ideal,
and some people will pick issues with them. But here we have, you know, maps over time,
we could talk about the Balfour Declaration, we could talk about, you know, 1948, all the different
eras or times where different things happened, but you've got a situation where you have,
at the moment, a non-contiguous, which means it's not joined up, Palestine that are enclaves
within Israel. You also have the Golan Heights elsewhere to the north that are kind of taken
off Syria, that's a third run, well, anyway, that's slightly different, but it's like a buffer zone
to other countries, to Syria. But you've got Palestine split into two, but the West Bank,
which is the one on the east here, it's a West Bank of the Jordan, this is then has been settled
over time by Israeli settlers, and it's now split into almost like over 100 different,
like, Palestinian sub-enclaves, if you like, and it's a really big hot mess. So in 2006,
there were Palestinian elections, and in those elections Hamas were voted in, particularly Gaza,
in the legislative elections. Fatah, which is a more, you know, a proper political party,
if you like, under the PLO, the Palestinian Liberation Organization, which is an overarching
representation of the Palestinian interest that has now been much more formally accepted by the
rest of the world. It was originally seen as a terrorist organization back decades and decades
ago, but now is like, this is how to do proper politics. Fatah is one of the main parties.
So the Fatah were represented, well, President Abbas, who was in Fatah, was voted in as president,
but the legislative elections went to Hamas in Gaza and to, you know, other parties in the West
Bank. So what that meant is that Gaza were ruled by, and are ruled by Hamas, and Hamas are effectively
an Islamic terrorist organization. And that means that no one in Gaza Strip has voted
since 2006, there have not been elections since then, which means you have no democratic
accountability, and you have no one under the age of 35 has voted, and you had a pretty good turnout,
you had like a 75% turnout, give or take. So that's 25% of people then didn't vote. So Hamas now,
in 2023, have no mandate to rule Gaza Strip, because there have been no elections, things have
changed, and no one under the age of 35 has voted. So the problem here is that trying to deal with
Hamas is incredibly difficult, because they, as you said before, they don't want to do peace,
but other Palestinians like the PLO, like Fatah, and many in Gaza Strip, we don't want to paint
all Palestinians with the Hamas brush. There are many who do want to do peace. So either you have
a one state solution, so the one state solution is that, you know what, we're not going to have
borders here, we're all going to live together as one nation, or you have a two state solution,
which is there are two nations that will live side by side. I would argue if you're going to have a
two state solution, it has to be contiguous. It's so unfair if Palestine have two areas that are not
next to each other. It would have to be contiguous, but anyway, those are practicalities. But the
problem is you need to do democracy, and without a proper democratic system, finding a solution to
this is nigh on impossible, would be my argument. No, this is a good point, because the way I saw
those, there's been a few really interesting, I think very balanced interviews, as we've shown
a few, and there's some more, you should really check out that channel. I've shared the link earlier,
but I feel to use an analogy, here are two people using prison analogy. I'm going to use prison,
why not? Both have shanks, right now, one stronger than the other, but they're fighting,
it's getting ugly, and they have their crews, and the prison guards, the nations, the world,
you know, they see it, they're not doing much to help stop it. I feel like someone's got to get in
there, and help them resolve this, because I don't think there's any way that they can, and I think
I heard someone say that they were happy to see- That was what that ambassador was saying in that
interview, which was like, we need the rules-based order, but we need it to be fairly, you know,
doled out across everyone around here, but we need help from the outside to be able to solve
this, because do you know what it's not looking like it's going to be solved between these two
entities? I don't know why this came to my mind, I was thinking back when you said Hamas came in
in 2006, and that's when voting stopped. Is that around the same time that they closed off borders?
Because I know that there's the open air prison statement, but if you're a government and Hamas
is this radicalist Islamist group that is like running the show down here in the Gaza, would you
be interested in having them just freely run into your territory or go into the areas that you might
be at? I don't know, and I'm not trying to make an argument for one side or the other, because
I know that as we see it right now, many people see the setup of the Zionist state, like Jewish
supremacy, or like if you're not a Jew, you're less than, and you're second-class citizen,
or something to these effects, the way that it's being painted. I think what you're saying in this,
like coming in, setting up a whole new deal where everybody is treated equal under one state, or even
a two-state solution somehow, which I think would make it still complicated, it'd still be more
complicated. How many, let me put it another way, how many nations in World War I or World War II
fought, millions died, and are living in peace today? A lot. And my point is, is like this can
be solved right now. I felt like I stepped on a mind just voicing my emotions and my anger
from my experience with my father going to war, and then realizing, oh, this is bad, like this is
really bad. But it is just because it is a moral quagmire, because you can go back and just to
answer your question, 2006 was when it was definitely blockaded more, like Israel withdrew
troops from Gaza in 2006. And, but yeah, it is an open air concentration camp with, I think,
three entrances, it's blockaded. Israel defined kind of how much water and energy Gaza got,
it's just a nightmare. And we need to step back from that and just think, right, you're humans,
you're humans. We know like Britain was heavily involved in this on the Balfour Declaration,
and then, you know, walking away and say, we kind of ruled Palestine, if you like, and then said,
okay, you're going to sort it out yourselves. And then Israel after 1948, there's the Arab
Israeli wars, and then they, they, they took on the area, and then sort of so forth, the rest,
as I say, is history. But there's a lot of history there, right? And either six day war,
and then each time maps kind of change a little bit, just to go back to that, that map again,
you know, each, each, each time each of these moments in history, the map changed. And,
you know, you had, what is it, 20, is it after 1967, kind of six day war scenario, I think
Palestine had 22% of the land mass, right? And so, you know, the question is, is that fair,
is what Israel did to the Palestinians throughout all that time period, fair, is what the rest of
the world did in siding with Israel, fair? Probably not, no. But that's where we're out now. And,
and the issue is, you've got a huge amount of Israelis that will argue, hey, but, you know,
I've been living here for however many years and blah, blah, blah, blah. But then you've got all
these Palestinians, you have, I've been living in Gaza Strip, which is the third most densely
populated area in the world, 25 square miles of almost 3 million people. And this has been terrible.
So you can complain that you might be moved out your house there, that you've been in for all
this time. But actually, do you know what, we need to come to an arrangement together where
both sides are compromising. And it's just, but it's just such a difficult, difficult solution,
because no one will be perfectly happy. Oh man. And I feel like apologizing, if any of my rhetoric
in my anger creates any hate. It's not my intention. I want to resolve this. I wish there
was a way to, or at least I'm not going to be able to. Here's the thing, I didn't even have to say
anything. It would all play itself out some way, one way or another. I don't think my video is
going to change anything that's happened over there. But it might help people to try and
step back with me, join me in stepping back and trying to think critically, unless you're involved,
then I can understand, I can empathize with you. If you're involved on one side or the other,
I understand why you can't feel the pain of the other side. But if you're not involved directly,
let's try to step back and think about this. I want to point out one really interesting thing
about what I have discovered in the past few days of how bad the propaganda is in both directions,
is how quickly this recent bombing of this hospital immediately was pinned on Israelis.
Now it's being pinned back on Hamas. What I immediately saw, and I know there's like
an audio that they sent out where they have like Gazan accents and Palestinians and Gaza
with their accents, talking about how they accidentally shot the missile off. Here's the
thing, the other side might go, oh, they made up those voices or they have people who have,
how far do you want to go and not trusting the other side's information? And I'm simply saying,
who is there to believe ultimately when there's so much propaganda and division
from both sides, painting the other side evil and villain and stuff like that? What do we believe,
Jonathan? Truth is the first casualty of war, right? I've been doing the Ukraine-Russia war
for a year and a half, and I've been doing it a lot, okay? And there is something called
fifth-generation warfare. So third-generation warfare is like how warfare had evolved using
high technology, still nations against nations. Fourth-generation warfare is things like entities
like ISIS who aren't nation states, so you're not fighting against nations, you're fighting against
these groups that can go between borders and whatnot, okay? That's fourth-generation warfare.
Fifth-generation warfare is information space warfare, they're fighting over hearts and minds.
Information is a weapon in modern warfare. Like you can be hacked by Russia and that can do as much
damage as bombing hospitals. They can take down a hospital network with hacking, right? So that's
cyber warfare. But then there's, so you talk about cybersecurity, you can talk about national
security. There's a term now that's starting to be used called epistemic security. Epistemic
security, epistemology in philosophy is a study of knowledge and truth. And I have been on the front
line, literally, on the front line of the battle in the information space with my channel. My channel
has been attacked by trolls. I am dealing with disinformation all day long. And I know disinformation
when I often know disinformation when I see it in the Russian-Ukrainian sphere, but it's easy to
get it wrong because it's so sophisticated, right? That's my preamble to the whole hospital thing.
So we can use this as an example, but it will not be the first, it's not the first and it won't be
the last. And be aware of this in terms of the rest of your life in every context. Information is a
weapon. And disinformation, the purposeful use of misinformation is a weapon. Here we had a rocket,
almost certainly, I can talk to you about JDAMs, right, which are aviation drop guided glide bombs.
And the kind of impact they have, the craters they have, and these types of explosions they have,
I can bore you because I've done videos on them on my other channel on the Ukraine war, right? I
can bore you with the technical aspects, but I've seen some pretty damn good analysis to suggest
from lots of different angles that that explosion was not an Israeli JDAM bomb and was almost
certainly one of the 40% of rockets that are fired because they get them from Iran. They're not very
good quality. That has misfired and gone into the car park. So the claim was 500 people died. And for
the first 12 hours of 500 people dying in hospital because the Israelis bombed it, everyone went
mental on both sides. And it was used to justify protests, literal protests in Jordan,
like sprang up. I mean, they were probably boiling anyway, bubbling over anyway, but
this piece of disinformation that was heralded by pro Hamas trolls online and so on and so forth,
and just genuine people who jumped on it because they weren't being sceptical.
They're caught up in it, yeah. You're like, I want this to be true because I'm so invested in
this side of the narrative. And had it been the other way as well, like I wrote it. So just in
case you think I'm being biased, I wrote an article on Only Sky about the claim of the 40 babies
being buried here. I'm going to share that right now, just so you can. Yeah. And how that was almost
certainly at least some kind of misinformation that was then exploited. And this, he's not saying
that babies weren't killed, he's saying that this specific, the way it's being worded and phrased,
may be tugging, it's probably propagandistic in the way that it may be tugging.
Yeah. So the original report was some babies, no, the original report was 40 babies dead, some of
them were beheaded, got turned almost immediately into 40 babies were beheaded. And then it was
like reported, reported, it was like third hand reporting. And then Israelis came out and said,
no, we've got evidence this happened. And then they walked it back. Biden said it happened,
I've seen evidence, then the White House had to walk it back because they didn't have that evidence.
The end result is it doesn't really matter whether that is true or not. They've done just,
they killed 250 people in a music festival, a four piece music festival. So, you know,
it's not really matting the grand scheme things. I mean, I don't mean to belittle that kind of
activity. But, but, you know, a terrible thing happened. But it's, it's, it's almost so Harari
called it try pain, tribalism of pain, which is like, it's almost this competition of who can have
these bigger horrors to justify dehumanizing the other side, so that you can then do terrible
things to the other side. And I know this is probably a really inept analogy. But when I see
my twin boys 13 arguing with each other, and I say, look, you need to stop that now because
I know where this goes. And it goes with one or both of you crying on the floor. But no,
the argument goes on, one of them escalates, the next one escalates, and there's nothing,
there's never anything I can do to stop it. And it ends up with both of them crying on the floor
because they've had a fight or something. Well, that is basically this whole conflict, which is
tribalism of pain, escalation of horrors, whether they've happened or not, but they can be used
to dehumanize the other side so that you can do terrible things to them. And the Israelis are doing
that and the Hamas are doing that. And, you know, I say Israelis, I mean, the people ruling at the
top and making these decisions, whatever. So right, that's happening until you get to a complete
breakdown of like the shit hits fan. And that's what sucks for innocent people who are having
to live this. We're over here in our safe space, you know, in some other country talking about it.
We aren't living it. We're not there. And I'm trying to empathize. So you might hear a weed
eater in the outside lawn is being cut. But I really wanted you in here to help bring, well,
I knew you'd be balanced. I knew you'd be fair in trying to have this discussion for people.
But I also wanted to vindicate and be a human, just be myself, be raw and lay it out there that
I hope people, no matter where you land, whatever you lean toward, we all have our bias
to walk with me and not think I'm just cold-hearted callus and not trying to understand as much as
I can. But I have learned a lot in just these past three days since doing this video where
made me realize I'm not interested in doing this with my channel. My channel is an educational
channel that is going to help you understand the ancient literature of the Bible and ancient history
and theology, myth, stories. And I plan on getting into much more. But this, this, I did not realize
what this was. Yeah. But which is, which is, I mean, it is great in a way. It's not great. It's
horrific. But if, if situations like this can lead to us having a constructive conversation,
which can lead to people on the stream being involved in constructive conversations themselves,
and then maybe moderating their worst excesses, then I think that we can come out of this,
at least we can come out of this with a better understanding of what's going on in the world.
And then we can pressure the right people in our lives to have a better understanding,
to represent those views as well. So, you know, hopefully the problem is, you know, what we had
this conversation before, Derek, which is, and I think Harari was asked this on the interview,
which is, what would you do? Like, like, you know, if you, if I was the, if I was Netanyahu or the
Israeli leader, you know, Jonathan Pierce, right, I was in, I was in charge of Israel and then Hamas
did that then. Like, forgetting all the, all the problematic things that Israel have done
up to there, right, and that Israel should have done X, Y and Z. I'm not denying any of that,
but just let's take the snapshot of when Hamas did, did what they did. What would I do? And
this is the difficulty, and this goes back to the Hamas trap. Like, if Israel react in a,
in a very conciliatory, okay, we realize there's a problem, let's then they will be,
they will see, perceive that that will be really weak and that Hamas will take advantage
and that won't be, you know, their own Israeli population would be totally unhappy with that.
And so, okay, we've got to be really strong, but being really strong means we need to eradicate
Hamas. And here's the problem. How do you eradicate Hamas in Gaza, which is a very densely populated
city when there are tunnels under all these civilian blocks, and you start going into war
crime territory because you need to take out Hamas, but if you are going to be serious about
taking out Hamas, you will be necessarily, well, you will be almost certainly killing lots of
civilians. So, but if you go in on the ground with ground forces, so you've got a better chance
of taking out Hamas and not civilians, then actually you're going to lose a lot of your
ground forces. So you don't want to go and fight an urban battle, they're going to be really reticent
to go in because lots of those Israelis will die. So the leader of Israel has these options
where it's like, right, we need to react in a strong way, which means we need to get rid of
Hamas, which means we need to bomb them from a distance, which means there's going to be civilian
deaths, which means is it worth, like, and these are the kind of terrible moral calculations, like,
is it worth it, you know, to kill 300 civilians for the death of 10 high-value militants? Like,
that's the kind of questions that these people will be dealing with, which is absolutely horrific.
And it goes back to that kind of moral lever pulling as to, is it worth it for the greater
good? But then if you're killing 300 civilians, then what are their families going to be doing?
This is just going to come and bite you on the arse because all of those people are then going
to be, right, you've killed my family needlessly, we're going to join Hamas and we're going to be,
and the whole thing just escalates into an even bigger, I don't want to swear, but an even bigger
shit show. And I don't know how you answer this. I thought you didn't want to, I didn't want to swear.
You know, this was what, while I was really emotional, this is exactly what I was trying to
ask and say. And my father said there's no right answer. I mean, the reason I interviewed him is
he has experience in combat situation in the Middle East. And he knows what it means to deal with
these cell groups. I'll call them cell groups of militants that we're calling Hamas. And like,
how do you engage in combat? That, what you just asked, how do you as a country in the Middle East
and keep in mind, if you don't do something, not only are your own people going to demand
you do something, but the other nations like Iran and other countries, they will absolutely smell
the fear. And if you bend over and allow this to happen, guess who, if you did that with them and
didn't do anything about it, we're going to step it in too, because they don't want them to be there.
There's clear evidence they don't want them to be there. And I'm talking about Iran specifically.
So there are different groups, of course, that have different views about the state of Israel
or the existence of them living in this land at all. Like, we have peace treaties that we're trying to
make up going back to 67. Let's go back to this model. Let's agree upon peace for this model.
And then others saying, no, I want them gone completely like Hamas would rather see them
completely exterminated. And that's unrealistic as well. So this is why you see them like,
insanely acting out the way that they do. But your question was the one I tried to ask in the
video that I think most people probably were just too triggered even here. And that was,
how do you, Mr. President, Jonathan M.S. Pierce, how do you, sir, plan on getting in,
trying to maybe get these hostages, get Hamas at the same time, not kill civilians, give me the
right answer. And if you're wrong, you're done. Could you give me the correct answer to this question?
And that's a problem. So humans are really bad at dealing with uncertainty. We're not very good.
We love black and white. We love, like, that's right. That's wrong. I'm fully on board with this.
And this is why you, over this whole issue, you've had a polarization because you think,
right, I believe that Palestine had been oppressed by Israel over the last hundred years or over
the last 70 years or whatever. And you're thinking, right, so I'm with them. But I don't agree with
Hamas. But then Israel have done this terrible thing by attacking Gaza and killed all these
civilians. So I'm really on board with that. Or you're the other way, and you're really on board
with Israel. And it's that division which leaves this empty, this black hole in the middle that
unfortunately is an inability to cross the aisle. If you want to cross the aisle and do a deal with
the other side and you have to cross a black hole, are you going to get sucked in? And it's just,
I don't know, it doesn't sound, it's not nice to say there is no solution to this. But I can't
see a simple solution going forward. But the solution for me has to involve Gaza having some
form of functioning democracy. And until they have a functioning democracy, and this is where,
like other nations, it should be like, right, we can give you, like, take down the walls,
we'll help rebuild your society, but we'll only give you the aid. I mean, this is kind of what
happens anyway. You look at Ukraine, Ukraine's getting a shed load of aid from loads of people,
but there will be strings attached, right? So the EU's giving money to Ukraine, but there'll be,
and the World Bank is giving money to Ukraine, but they have to go through, they have to jump
through transparency hoops. But you've got to sort your corruption out. You've got to have these
democratic mechanisms in place. You've got to do this, you've got to do that. Okay, so we'll give
you the money and look, it looks like we're being really moral, but actually we're making you do
things. And by the way, we've also got investments in Ukraine too going forward. But that's a whole
different story. So when it comes to Gaza Strip, it's like, yep, we will help rebuild you as an
international community. But you have to have a functioning democracy if you want any of this
help. And it sounds like bribery, but that to me would be one of the, the obvious mechanisms,
because if you're going to be ruled by a theocracy or an autocracy or a dictatorship or any kind of
system like that, you can't be a functioning part of the international community. So democracy,
secular democracy, because you've got Palestinian Jews, you've got Palestinian, you've got secular
Palestinians. So in a pluralist society, you have to have secular rule, something like an
autocracy of Hamas, you know, you can look at the Hamas Charter. And I'm sorry, it's, it's not, oops,
that's my one here. It's not, it's not particularly cool, the Hamas Charter, like, it's not a great
read. And that to me is, is not the way forward, right? So yeah, that's what comes out of a theocracy.
You have to have a functioning democracy. And, you know, hopefully, you would get a functioning
Israeli democracy as well, where you, you have a more beneficial government in charge. Unfortunately,
I don't think Netanyahu and his very right wing extremists are the right people for the job. But
yeah, right, right. Sorry, there's a lot of talking. No, that's well put. I figure you brought up the
idea of a secular society. I think it's important we kind of pivot into that because we'll be kind
of circling again and again and again into these hot subjects that honestly, I don't know. Sorry,
before we do that, sorry, I'm really sorry to interrupt. But, but actually, you mentioned
something about different groups in the area. And it is really worth understanding the different
geopolitical dimensions going on. So Gaza Strip Palestinians are well, Palestinians in general
are broadly Sunni Arabs. You have Saudi Arabia, Sunni Arab, and these normalization has been
this normalization talks between Israel and Saudi Arabia are happening over recent years.
And Hamas will be looking at that and saying, we want to undermine that. And in fact, there's a
good theory to suggest the reason why Hamas did this now is because normalization talks have
taken place with Saudi Arabia, and they want to kind of unseat that so that they can have chaos,
and they don't want peace going forward. When you have Hezbollah, who are Shia, Persian, Iranian,
you've got Iran, who are Shiites, but they are helping the Hamas who are Sunni Arabs,
and it's a marriage of convenience happening there because, you know, the enemy of my enemy
is my friend. But you've got all sorts of funky dynamics going on here where you think, okay,
Iran are on the Palestinian side. But actually, that's a fairly fragile relationship, arguably.
And yeah, it's just a complete mess. But it's understanding that part of what is driving
Hamas to do what they do, I think, is for this idea of chaos. They want people to lose faith in
humanity, lose trust in humanity. They want people to think there's no hope. They want people to think
that you just can't achieve peace. And going down that route plays to that Hamas charter that I was
talking about. Yeah, there's so much here. How much of this do you think religion plays a role on
both sides? And I just want to say for our audience, obviously, you're going to have certain Zionists
who are going to believe it's their moral duty and obligation. God gave them this land, prophecy,
you know, they need to fulfill that. We know Christian Zionists in the early 20th century
played a huge role in navigating Jews across the world into the land to try and fulfill
prophecy. I don't know how much of that is still actively the case. But I imagine there is that's
still alive. And then how much of that do you think on the other side? Ideologically, religion
plays a role. It's such a difficult sociological question now. I often talk about the troubles in
Northern Ireland, where you have Catholics and Protestants fighting. And you think that's a
religious war. But actually, it's not a religious war. It's a war of culture, it's a war of history.
It's a war of identity. And, you know, this is our tribe, and this is your tribe. And,
you know, you brought over Protestants from Scotland, and this is kind of an oppressive
British empire coming into Ireland. And so religion is there. And it can make people think
I've spoken to family members who said our religion is the cause of all wars. And you'd
think an atheist philosopher like myself would be, yeah, damn it, religion is terrible. But
actually, religion causes very few wars. Humans cause wars. And they attach religion to it.
Religion can be an identifier. It can throw fuel on a fire. It's not often it's a total driver
of a war. However, things like ISIS and Hamas are a little bit more funky because they are truly
ideological groups. Almost, particularly ISIS, almost without borders and wanting to have a
caliphate. And so, you know, there is an argument, I think, there to be had about the importance
of the causal variable that is religion there. But it's really easy to say religion's at fault,
but it's usually humans are at fault. And we can just easily use religion as a divisive identifier.
Although, to varying degrees, they'll be, you know, playing more greater causal role in different
events throughout history. But here, I don't know. I don't know enough. I haven't met
any Hamas people and talked to them, but I would assume religion is quite a large part for them.
But, and here's the really important point, possibly not so important for Palestinians
in general, outside in the West Bank, Palestinians who aren't big fans of Hamas in Gaza Strip,
where they'll be like, I want, do you know what? I want water. I want energy. I want food. I want
the right to move around freely. I want aspiration. If you don't have aspiration, you don't have,
all the things that you and I come to love in our lives, all the things we take for granted,
all the people watching this, all the stuff you take for granted, imagine just living in the same
25 square miles in those conditions, and you feel that's been oppressed upon you.
Does, is that about religion? No, that's going to be about the day-to-day trials and tribulations
of existence. Sorry, that's a lot of me waffling. That's what makes me want to be
a lot more, not a little, a lot more empathetic to try my damnedest with my bias, you know,
to try and understand, like, put myself in their shoes, you know, and then that's, that's not always
easy for us as humans to try and look at the other side and go, this is, like, if I were in their
shoes, I would think justifications, I would find ways to rationalize, this would make sense to me.
And then if you go on the other side, you're going to think the same thing, and that's why I
love those interviews you sent me, because it's trying to get you to see, oh my gosh, both sides
think they're 100% right. Both sides feel completely wronged, and they cannot see the other side.
It is impossible right now, at least it seems, for them to understand and empathize the other side.
Being someone who's not directly involved, other than my little trauma with my past of my father
having to go to war and stuff like that, and then all that, I would just simply say my backing up
and trying to reevaluate and look at this, that is the goal of this discussion I was hoping with
used to help others do it with me. If you were completely one side or the other, I ask that
people do that. So this is such a sore subject, man. It's so sore. I'm sure you got some super chats,
and I got some super chats, but before we get to them, is there anything we needed to just cover?
Because this is my last video that I'm going to be talking about this issue, because my channel
is not about politics. It's not. It's really not. This is way outside my field, but I already opened
up the Can of Worms with my other video, and this is me wanting to show, hey, there's a lot I can
learn, and I'm sure a lot of viewers can as well. Just don't fall into the trap of being too extreme
as my hope to any viewers out there. Don't fall into the crowd too extreme, and I would say,
human life, we need to keep as much as possible. And so I really hope the leaders come together.
This is my hope, and I'll shut up. I know you do it too. So it's only fair that I get to do this,
Jonathan, and that's hog up a little extra space is this. My hope, because I did the whole combat
thing with my dad. I was, oh, you know, what do you do in a war situation? How it gets ugly?
Look, my hope is the big brothers that are watching out here, the world at large gets involved,
not for combat, to squash and figure out some way to stop this damn thing, because I don't see it
ending pretty, no matter what. That is my only thing. I don't know the answer. I don't know the
answer. But I feel like bigger powers need to step in, because it's a suicide mission in the long
run for both parties or one party, or it's just not good. And I care about human life more than
anything. When I first made this video, there wasn't this, it wasn't like crushing gods at the time.
This has really gotten intense since that video that I did, and I'm realizing this is not going
to be good. How many little kids, how many little kids, how many little little little
lives aren't going to be able to experience because of other people's, I'm going to call it bullshit,
other people's problems, and they didn't choose that. So
thanks for letting me vent. There's my TED Talk. And now to you, Jonathan.
Yeah. I mean, we've talked about before that I don't see any really easy solution out of this,
and there will be a lot more pain before things resolve. And I don't know how they resolve. Someone
said early in the chat, and I did put the question up, why is the UN over time, over history, not
really supported Palestinians much? And there is certainly, like I talked about, the double standards
of international laws not being applied fairly, and how you can argue, and pro-Palestinians do argue
very much that Israel hasn't been held to account by international legislation.
And having said that, and we can also talk, sorry, I'm going all over the place, but we can also talk
about how really powerful nations around the world have probably traditionally favored Israel
for their own biases. We can talk about our own individual biases, but imagine you've got a country
full of people with all those individual biases, and then forming a government, and then going and
making decisions, so the British with their, with our history, and then involvement in the region,
and then making decisions, who are we going to favor, the Palestinians or the Israelis,
in any kind of parliamentary decision or foreign diplomacy decision. So there is, there needs to
be a kind of reckoning day for everyone around the world, lots of nations, to kind of say,
and it sounds like real cheap both sides isn't here, but it's not, it's literally both sides
have faults here. And in order to move forward, everyone needs to recognize that both sides have
faults here. And each of those sides need to recognize that in themselves, so that they can
move forward and say, yeah, we didn't do that too well, sorry about that, okay. And then you've
got to move to compromise, but you're going to have to have international organizations like
UN getting involved, maybe administering security in that area to start with, you know, UN peacekeepers
there, I don't know, but the solution is almost certainly going to involve a lot of the rest of
the world. And, and as I say, it has to, it has to involve a political, democratic, free and fair
elections and representation for everyone. You know, this is really good, what you just brought
up is for those who don't know, and on your side, they probably don't know my past, some people
are probably new to my channel. I'm a recovering drug addict and alcoholic. This month on the
25th, I will be celebrating eight years off of heroin, and I was, I was dying. But you brought
up something that anyone who might be a recovering alcoholic or addict knows the, the experience
of a 12 step room. You go into a 12 step room and there are going to be people that don't believe
like you, don't hold to your politics, don't look like you have different experiences, but we can
actually unite on one common thing. And it's almost like it's own philosophy you can unite on.
We all share in the experience of suffering. We all know what suffering is and we come in
and we share who we are. You know, my name is Derek and I'm an addict or I'm Derek, I'm an
alcoholic, depending on which 12 step group I've ever visited. I know that the whole God concept
can get brought into these rooms. I'm not going there. I'm making the simple point that these
steps, there's something interesting in them. And it is sweeping up your side of the street,
they call it. And then you really start to recover. I feel you start to have more control
over your emotions and how you handle your day to day life experiences when you
look at your own faults and own up to them. You don't blame some things are outside of your control.
You make these lists, right? They ask you, your sponsors make these lists. Some things are just
outside of your control. You've been wronged. OK, those things happen. But your goal is to try and
not hold that that doesn't have a power over you in your life. The goal is to look at your own struggle,
your own problems that you've done and really learn how to forgive yourself for things you've
done as well and make amends wherever possible with other people that you've harmed. That philosophy
scratched the God concept, whether you believe or don't, I don't. That has worked for me
and has helped me in all of my kind of dealings in life. I still use it today when I try to do
wrong. In fact, today, this video is somewhat of an apology in a way for jumping. I can't,
I mean, I'm being transparent is the point. But also to let you see the humanity that I really
don't want death. I want life. I want peace. I want love. I want us to get along. I don't want to see
that. So that I don't know why you made me think of that, Jonathan. I had to bring that up because
no matter where you're at, you can find a common solution. And I imagine if we can,
if there's somehow both can find a common solution or an experience that they can
come under together, maybe, maybe I just solved the whole problem, Jonathan. I wish
you see what I'm trying to get at, I'm sure. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, goodness, there's so much
to consider in what you've said. In terms of where we've been in this conversation,
there's so much we haven't even looked at. I was going to talk about sort of war crimes and nitty
gritty of, you know, what is the definition of a war crime? How is it are the Israelis justified
in targeting civilians or not targeted, sorry, targeting Hamas, knowing that they will take
out civilians? Where do you draw the line there? And the subject, there is a subjectivity around
that. It's a very difficult conversation. I've seen that a lot in the Ukraine war with Russia
trying to claim X1Z. Can I ask you something about that? Yeah. And I don't want to steer you off this.
I think this goes into the vein of that. And you could steer the boat wherever you want to go.
I wanted to ask you, because I saw on the news the other day, like China and Russia were like
vilifying what's happening in Gaza right now. I mean, like they're like saying, whoa,
they mentioned some war about completely wiping out a town in like one day or it was like really
quick in German war or something. But like Putin was acting like, whoa, this is unprecedented and
like horrible. Now, it's interesting, but I wanted to ask you because you're on the Ukraine war,
did the Russians target civilian locales and actually bomb? I'm pretty sure the answer is yes,
but I'm wanting you to answer this because it's like, whoa, what a hypocrite to go on record and
like make these statements. And I saw so many people who obviously fall into the trap of that
tribalistic one side or the other going, man, Putin makes perfect sense. And it's like,
you're listening to a guy who literally is doing this to Ukrainians, correct? Or am I wrong?
It's like listening to Jeffrey Dahmer go, oh, that Jack the Ripper is terrible. Oh, what a horrible
human. It's like, yeah, Dharma. Yeah, really? Because quite frankly, like, you know, you've
got to be careful. There is something called the two-quat-quay fallacy. The two-quat-quay fallacy
is a U2 fallacy. So you can have, like Jeffrey Dahmer, like a mass murderer say, Jack the Ripper
is terrible and shouldn't do that. And you can go, you can't say that, actually can say that.
He's just being a hypocrite, but it doesn't mean that what Jack the Ripper did is not bad. It is
bad. So technically, you can have Putin and Xi Jinping say, this is terrible, what's going on
over here. And then be truthful that you can't deny, arguably, you can't deny what they're
saying. It is terrible. X1 said, and you can make an argument for that. However, they are being
deeply hypocritical and particularly Putin here, because yes, so he has, and we've been getting to
the long grass of war crimes here, but he has used, or his armies have used, I mean, he's done
a whole suite of terrible things. And that's why he's got an international criminal court
arrest warrant on his head for deporting children. The Ukrainians say up to 20,000 children have
been deported into Russia. The numbers probably somewhere between that and six hours or something,
somewhere in that region. But Putin has effectively, or the Kremlin has stolen those children
and brainwashed them and sent them through filtration camps and so on and so forth. So
just that alone. But yes, he sent rockets into, or his armies have sent rockets into places like
Nipropetresk or Kranatorsk or Sloviansk routinely. Now, there are different, there are nuances here.
So you can have a rocket that you know is quite inaccurate. It's called a circle error probable.
So you might have a rocket with a circle error probable of 300 meters. That means that 50% of
the time, this is a precision guided munition, 50% of the time it will hit within 300 meters of your
target, which is itself not very good, because 300 meters from your target could be a hospital, right?
But 50% of the time it can go bloody anywhere, right? And that is still precision. And now,
if you've got a better missile to use than that, but you don't use that better missile,
use a shoddy missile and send it into somewhere that you're aiming around the city, and you're
trying to hit that target, but you know it's the 300 meter circle error probable, and you know it's
got a really high probability of killing loads of civilians. Is it right that you do that even if
you've got a justified military target you're trying to hit? And this is where you have loads
of gray areas. So when you are using weapons like this, you need to consider things, right?
You need to be trying to protect civilians from harm. And what you need to consider is civilians
must abstain from fighting, so the civilians themselves can't be actual militants. The party
in control of the civilian population must not place them at a heightened risk of harm by using
them as human shields. And there's an issue there, but we know that Hamas do that. And in terms of
Ukrainian, that hasn't been done, although we can argue about certain areas around the edges.
And the third point is the attack in force must take precautions, using the right missile,
aiming for something that's not, you know, wait until that target is not next to a big city or
whatever, must take precautions to avoid or minimize excessive civilian casualties when
attacking lawful targets. So you can kill civilians if the, so the not only are civilians and guards
are not lawful targets, they are also protected under, you know, international law by the law
proportionality. So this rule prohibits an attack against a military target, which forcibly could
cause civilian casualties. That's our, and this is where it's, this is where it's completely subjective.
And that's the problem. So are the civilian casualties, are they excessive or disproportionate
in relation to the advantage anticipated from the target's destruction? And that's almost an
impossible answer to quantify very carefully. Because you can say that the Israelis, for example,
and I'm pulling this number out of my posterior. So let's use a different example.
The British send a missile into the French, right? And we're trying to hit 10 particularly
hardcore French people. And we kill 300 French civilians. And the army might say, well, those
10 people were really, really valuable. And actually the 300 civilians are a collateral that's
worth it for those 10 people. Who make these decisions, by the way, like, well, I, so we'll
go to the international criminal court possibly or international, there will be international
organizations that can arbitrate for this. But at the end of day, it will be people
really giving subjective evaluations to that and trying to trying to muddle through this because
the problem is with laws is they don't exist out there. Like I said earlier, it's not like,
oh, we can just go to the library of laws and we just punch that into a computer. And it turns
out that you're a war criminal. Like, yeah, he's a war criminal. So we can't do that. So we have
to go right. Okay, what's the definition of excessive? Is that proportional? And you'll have
arguments drawn against. And these can, these can have no clear answer. And what you probably get
are people acting with the knowledge that it's going to be quite difficult to define this. And
then you have disinformation and misinformation floating about so that like, well, we thought
there was like four, we thought that there were 200 militants and six tanks underground, blah,
blah, blah. It turns out it wasn't and we killed 300 civilians, you know, people will try and
lie their way out of it. Also, it's just, it's a really big mess. But that's a kind of arguments
that exist around war crimes when you are striking targets within particularly urban areas,
where you've got a lot of civilians. So the Israelis are going to be trying to mitigate that,
but they will be saying as much as they can. But the problem is you are fighting against Hamas,
who are in the densest populated city or one of the densest populated areas in the world.
There is absolutely no way anyone from Hamas will not be near civilians. So this goes back
to the problem I was talking about earlier. So the best way to differentiate between a
civilian and a Hamas is by going in and out on foot. But even that's difficult because you've
got women with guns, you've got young people with guns, you've got, it's not like everyone's
dressed in a uniform, you're going there and telling who, yeah, I'm Hamas, yeah, yeah,
you've been shot. And you know, that's not how it works. Like you go in and it will be an absolute
mess and you'll lose loads of Israelis. So the Israelis won't do that. They'll prefer to do it
by distance munitions, but the probability of killing innocent civilians then goes up.
But it goes back to the question that if you were Netanyahu or you were in charge of Israel,
how would you do it? Like you're in a situation and many people in a pro-Palestinian front will
don't go and kill Hamas. Yeah, but they've just done this and you get into the whole,
well, how do you deal with those horrors? Wow. Don't ask me. I mean, like honestly,
I mean, my, if I was angry up front, it would be just go, right? Like that's why I made the
analogy in my video. I would think if someone attacked my family and I used this and people
used it to use it for their own, you know, well, well, that's exactly how Palestinians feel. And
then that's why they attacked and it just endlessly, it will never end if that's the mentality. But
no, it gets even more problematic because Israel have said, right, we're looking like Hamas,
this, the place is going on a strike in northern Gaza. So it, can you just move to southern Gaza,
all the civilians? You're like the most densely populated city in the world and you're asking
one million people to move like just down the road. Like the, the ambassador in that interview
you were talking about said that my sister, who's a really loving person, she said, right,
we're going to have to take in some people. And, and how many people did she take into her house?
150. 150 people in her house because they had, you know, how insane is that? And it doesn't help
that Egypt are not allowing refugees out of Gaza. So you're, basically, you're stuck in there and
you're doing war there. Just something's got to give. Jonathan, I mean, at first I'm thinking,
I could see red, I could see why, as in Israeli, I'd be seeing red and I could see why Palestinians
see red and it's never gonna end. Someone's got to stop. And you know how you talked about earlier,
someone's got to be the bigger person. Really, both sides need to see their own play and their
own fault and fix their own side of the street. But like, I feel like this is why someone needs to
help get in involved, like bigger, bigger, the big brothers, the bigger nations that have more
strength need to get involved and try to, I'd love to see the, these, these civilians who've
been taken hostage, find out some way to like, square this out and really end this thing. I mean,
well, so they were calling for a truce just recently, but even the UK, UK, France and US have all
come out and said no to the truce as far as I understand it. Possibly, I think the reasoning
is because Hamas have not accepted any responsibility for the terrorist or something like that. But,
but you're right, you're like, then you need to, like, this either goes on and on and, you know,
it's all, it's all over and it's a complete shit show, or we stop now and, and we do something
about it, something really meaningful where everyone gets together and because, because this
can't go on, but, but again, we get back to, but that will involve compromise
and none of you will be happy. Nobody's going to be happy with whatever the compromise might be.
Well, I wonder, I wonder whether regular Palestinians who are not Hamas might actually
be happy because if they get to- I'm not talking about like just any individual, I'm saying both,
both ultimate groups involved, right? Yeah, because I think the promise initially was,
you know, by an angry Israeli leader, I think it's Netanyahu who said, like,
we're eradicating them all, right? Like you've made this promise that you're going to take all of
them out, yet they have hostages, yet you're talking about a densely populated area where we
don't even have statistics as I was talking to dad about, like, how many of them are Hamas? How
many of them are like, it wouldn't even matter if someone sided with them. I mean, you're growing up
in a, in a society where this is your kind of military force in a way, you know, like, that
doesn't matter. If they're not carrying a weapon, they're not actively involved, you don't need to
see that. They're innocent civilians, whether or not you want to get into the nuance there. That's
the difference. And you can talk about the moral responsibility of being brainwashed as a child.
So I was speaking to someone who, the other day at my son's rugby practice, who was like, yeah,
I had a friend who was out in Gaza in 2007, and he looked out the window and saw on the beach
a whole bunch of children doing leper calling under, under kind of fake barbed wire with,
with fake guns to do training for, and he like, right, so we've got children being brainwashed.
So then he, and he said that they will be the ones in Hamas now, those children that he saw
out the window will be the ones in Hamas now. And then you're thinking, then it plays with your
ideas and moral responsibility as a philosopher, which is I can understand how you've got to that
situation. You know, you can go back and blame Netanyahu for, you know, the Palestinians doing
X and Y or blame the Palestinians for the Israelis doing X and Y and whatever. But we're here now,
and we need to deal with that now. But, but you can understand how they've got there when you've
got brainwashing and stuff like that going on with children from a very young age. And you can
argue that that happens in an education system. Brainwashing happens in maybe other ways in
Israel in much more nefarious ways, much less overt ways. I don't know. That's me trying to
think from the other side that there will be, you know, people's understanding of themselves and
their neighbors, you know, Gaza, West Bank, Israel, their understanding will be, will be,
you know, infused from the surrounding culture. But yeah, that's going off on another big
philosophical tangent. Oh my gosh. Yeah, there's so much here. I just want people to be aware.
I've encountered comments in my videos, and I've encountered people along the way
that have extreme ideas. They think Jews rule the world, for example, they kind of have this
very hard bend toward Jewish people. And then you know, there are people online that are
very anti-Muslim, like Islamophobic, clearly hate Muslims, and they have the worst possible
interpretation for every particular thing you can possibly look at. And this is only going to
stir and create more hate across the world. And it's why I'm trying to exit this conversation
in terms of, because I don't, you know, I really do empathize. That's, I do want the world to know
that. But like, I can't resolve anything and nothing I'm doing, I'm not interested in doing
geopolitics like you are, like you're trying to be as neutral, balanced and unbiased as possible
and give the facts on the ground and get into this stuff. No, thank you. This is too,
there's too much tension and it's way too ugly. I get enough of that from picking people's ideologies
apart with mythology and text and stuff like that. I don't need this. In fact, this is worse.
This is worse than any religious criticisms I bring. Like, this is worse.
Someone in my thread says a big argument going on. I don't know whether they missed what I said
earlier, but talking about Hamas, like just to remind people that they did say earlier,
Hamas do not have a mandate, right? So 2006 was 17 years ago, people are now 35, never voted. And
even when they did vote, there was 25% of people didn't vote. Hamas do not have a mandate. So
seeing Hamas as completely representative of Gaza Strip in particular and Palestinians as a
whole is really problematic. So I know I've said that already. I'm just repeating that for that
conversation. Just to give the audience, like, you know how you're popping up chats and stuff?
So like, I've noticed people in the chat and I want to get to super chats here soon because we've
got a lot of people who've asked questions and things like that and talk about, like Derek finally
admits he knows absolutely nothing. Hey, I don't mind being Socrates, baby. I don't mind being...
You know what? I didn't even mean to put, I put that up and that was a mistake. I meant to put
this up, but it's not working. So... Oh, you just did it. Oh, there it is. Sorry, it's being a bit
funny. It wasn't, that was the one I meant to put up, not the one that's like, you're off.
So how do you defend yourself against an opposition that uses terrorism to kill your
civilians? Hold your civilians as hostages and uses their own population as human shields,
dooms, whatever you do. Pretty much summed up, thanks a little whiskey shop, by the way,
one of my members. Really appreciate that. It's pretty much where I've been going, which is,
I don't know that there's an answer to this because you can't, that's why,
that's why you need democratically elected individuals to represent your nation states or
your nation or your group of people. And having terrorists represent you, you're not going to get
very far with terrorists who are very openly, when you look at the charter, very openly not
interested in doing anything other than harm to, you know, to you and your nation. So,
yeah, you are doomed, whatever you do. So the key for me is getting rid of hammers and getting
fatter, getting the PLO to properly represent the Palestinian people or least sensible political
entities to properly represent the Palestinian people, then you can move forward. You cannot
move forward with Hamas at the helm. And likewise, there will be Palestinians who will say, we can't
move forward with Netanyahu at the home and Smaat Rich and these other, you know, real extremist
politicians in Israel. So I get that too. This is two way street.
Sean O'Brien jet like this, I don't know if this is that me or something, but I can imagine someone
like Adam Green or someone with their toxic anti Jewishness kind of stuff saying something like,
I'm too much of a Zionist to keep doing this. I don't know if that's quoting me or something,
trying to make the joke at me because what's interesting is if I were a Zionist, I would be
die hard for and absolutely not trying to take a neutral position as much as possible,
even if I have biases. And I've literally said on record, I'm not a Zionist. If you define Zionist
that Jews deserve to have a place to live in peace, and sure, I would be a Palestinianist then.
You know, where do you want to draw the line? I want people to be able to do that. I don't,
I'm one guy who doesn't have the answers, but I do want to get to super chats and
Yeah, can I just say one last thing there? There was, I don't know how big a group this is might
be a really small, very niche group, but there's, I keep seeing them on Twitter, X, I keep seeing
them on Twitter. And they, they're called Torah Judaism as a handle. And they are Zionists,
self-proclaimed Zionists that are, they stand on the Israeli flag and they, they fly Palestinian
flags. It's really interesting situation. And their situation, their claims are that Israel
was created by man in, you know, 1948 or whatever. It was created by man and not by God. And their
position is we are waiting for the Israel to be given to us by God as, you know, a fulfilling of
the covenants. And so therefore we're fully with the Palestinians here and we're against Israel.
And so they end up stamping on the Israeli flag and waving the Palestinian flag. And it's like,
wow, I never, never expected that position to be taken. Anyway, carry on. No, you're good. You're
good. Um, going up to the top on my end, how many do you have? I've got 32 things showing I need to
get through. Yeah, 31. I've got 31. That's all of them. Okay. I'm thinking you can, there's a lot
here. So we'll just give a shout out, recognitions to members of the channel.
No, I'm a believer. Thank you so much. Seriously. Been around for a long time.
Jay Nick, I really appreciate you for being a member. Do we want to go through members or do
we want to just go down in sequential order? You just go down in sequential order. Just
give thanks to all those who've been very kind. Yeah, seriously. MNAG, thank you for the 20.
The situation is very complex, but let's take an honest look at what the Zionist movement here is
the US or is the US? I'm not sure. They pushed Palestinians out of their homes. And so you
choke a people hard enough, they will find a way to fight back. I agree. And that's a problem.
And this is the kind of both sides escalation. I'm not, I don't know about you, Derek, but I am
not denying that the Israelis have, have done some pretty egregious things over the last 100
years, right? And that has not helped or it is indeed majorly created the situation in this kind
of way. Right. And that needs to be solved. Yeah. See, and here's the thing. I don't know enough
of the historical setting on a lot of this because it sounds like this tit for tat stuff going on. I
mean, you go and look at 1948 and what's happened here. This created, obviously, lots of people
are moved out of their land. This starts this, this huge division. I mean, it probably already
had some tension going back to what was it 1918, 1919, when Britain in the Zionist movement starts
to come over, but like an established state, this creates so much tension. And then you almost look
at like, now there's wars, the wars happen, more land grab happens. Is that criminal in the light
of the war? I don't know. I don't know enough to know how do we reconcile all of this. It just
seems like it's just going to keep building on itself. So who struck first? Who's the real problem
first? Can we blame Britain for some of this initially? I mean, are we just be honest, most
people do with regard to anything. I mean, you look at the Star Wars films, who are the bad guys,
the British actors all the time. I mean, but on a serious note, like they made all these promises
in World War One, and their promises, their promised Arabs, and they promised Israelis,
or they promised the Zionists, the Jews who were in Europe trying to escape what was happening.
Like both are being promised this same piece of land. And then up after many assassinations by
Jewish extremists, as well as Palestinian extremists or their Arabs at the time that were
attacking Britain, their Britain gets out of the picture. Now there's two people who are now
like right away at each other's throats or having to fight and defend. And it's just
because at the end of the day, you know, people want people to fight for their own self preservation.
They're fighting for what they want and looking after their own self interests. And that's at
the heart of these things. And I want this land. No, I want this land. No, but I want this land.
And it turns out that we're a bit more powerful than you. So we're going to have this land.
It's not like I agree with you, though, that if people are already living there,
I don't care who, what, when, where, how, okay, I would feel if I were them being moved from my
property or being forced out morally outraged. I mean, that's an understatement. I would probably
try to die or kill for my, you know, for my land. And that's being realistic. I mean,
if someone came over here and tried to kick me out of my home and told me get the hell out,
I would defend it, right? I would do my best. So I empathize with that question and I get it.
And it just keeps going. Your turn. You got, oh, goodness. So you just, you click them all,
mate. Huh? Take control. You want me to just click it and you, okay. Yeah. Yeah. This is yours,
though. So yeah, thanks, Ozzy T. Brilliant. They'll work it out. Someone said earlier,
I want to chat just, they both need to take their bats and balls and go home. Like,
if it was that easy, I wouldn't it be great, but, you know, but thanks Ozzy T. Great, great supporter.
Yeah. Thanks for supporting my friend, Jonathan, um, for, for what? To be honest, that video was
triggering. I think they're talking about my video the other day, though I have no agenda.
As much as I don't believe in a hell created by a God, I don't believe in creating hell for humans.
I agree. I agree. And if you're like educated in those areas, far more than me, forgive my
ignorance. And if I'm speaking and you're like, actually, I know this, I've studied the history
and I see that they were wrong here and I'm not aware of it. That's because I'm not aware of it.
I'm not up to speed on the whole ins and outs, but no matter what, I don't wish any humans have to
go through hell. And that goes back to my philosophy as well. But that's why this is such a tough one.
It's, it sucks because it keeps, it keeps getting worse. Thank you so much. Jay Nick Hamas accidentally
bombed a Palestinian hospital and blamed Israel. I appreciate Israel for giving time to
vacate. We've covered that first part. I'm not quite sure what the second part means,
but yeah, we certainly covered that. So I think that's you in light of the fact that
already they're promising to go out and after Hamas, they're trying to give them,
I've heard this said that they're trying to say, hey, get out of here.
Things are going to get ugly. Here's our advanced notice. Yeah, it's just really
difficult. Like I said earlier, when you're asking people to get out of the most density
populated area in the world to another place in that density populated area, it's difficult.
Yeah. Appreciate your super chat there. Imnax says, yes, stop making new settlements. That's a good
start. Yeah, well, you can definitely met the argument and the Israelis definitely need to,
both sides need to compromise. They need to, they need to own up to things that they've been doing
on have done and will probably going to continue to do until there's a day of reckoning and a
realization that they can't continue like that. So I would agree broadly with that.
Thank you, Imnax. Appreciate the super chat. Mr. Monster for becoming a member today. Thank you.
You know, I call my son Mr. Monster. I literally go, hey, Mr. Monster. So interesting.
Rest in peace to all innocent civilians, both sides. Yeah, sucks. Paul Gilbert, on your end here.
Brilliant joining conversation. Thanks, Derek and Jonathan, for the mind food.
My pleasure. If only it was, it was a, you know, more joyful subject, but hopefully it's been
mind food for some of you or all of you. Yeah, thanks, Paul. Appreciate that and all the support
to my friend, Jonathan, again, subscribe to him. If you're a YouTube myth vision person, if you're
into this stuff, because you're not getting more of it from me, I can promise you that I have no
interest in going any further into this. I'll be doing my research, but as far as going out and
speaking on it, this is it. You get it or you don't. And this is it. Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead.
I was just going to say, yeah, I mean, this is yours. So Dave, if Palestine does come into
existence, it will be a fantastical Jihadist state like Afghanistan, Iran, et cetera.
Sorry, if an article, all those who advocate for it in the West, LGBT feminist will be the
first ones on the firing line. I disagree. If Hamas gets their way, yes. And this is where
it's, you've got to be really careful to differentiate between Hamas and Palestine.
There's a lot of Palestinians like that interview with that ambassador who was a really sound,
he's an academic and he knows his onions. And he's got a political vision of the future of Palestine
that would not be those things. But if you had a Jihadist state like Afghanistan,
then yes, those people would be in a firing line. But we must be careful to differentiate between
not all A and B. All A can be B, but not all B or A. Just be careful with that conflation.
And if my video the other day got interpreted that way, what I was saying, as I said in the
video starting out is those who have liberal values like me and you are obviously in support of LGBTQ,
we're in support of these ideas. The people that I said, hey, I respect very smart people,
we're defending Hamas. And you could say there's a fallacy here, but they're just,
they're just empathizing with the suffering and feeling like they need to fight for their freedom
or something. But I was saying these very people that you're advocating for who are terrorist
are also diverse people who would kill you for being or advocating for these ideas which go
absolutely against the very things they stand for. And that goes back to the idea that I can
agree with the overall intention as in a free Palestine, but although I can't agree if the
intention is an Islamic autocracy. But if it's free Palestine, then yes. But if it's all these
really terrible things to get there rather than a liberal political worldview to get there, then
I'm not too sure about that. It would have been better to remain neutral
and not go out of your way and not realize like they're not fighting, they might be fighting for
some of this, right? They want to dispel the power that is Israel and all that. But like they would
be absolutely advocating for things if they did have full control and power over all of it. Let's
just imagine they defeated Israel and set up their state and all. You would not be cheering them on.
Like it just seemed weird to me. So that's why I made that statement.
Jay Nick, why would Palestine rely on Israel for necessities?
Because basically they have absolutely no option. It's basically surrounded now that you've got
three checkpoints. The sea is blockaded pretty much. There are no natural resources. You've
just got a city. I mean, you've really got to understand what Gaza Strip is. I mean,
we're talking particularly about Gaza Strip and not West Bank here. But you've got to understand
it. It's just a big city with no... If you think about how London survives in terms of getting its
food and getting all the road networks, logistics, the rail, all of those things that help to feed
and to fuel and to close and everything. All of the stuff that goes literally physically
into London. You've now got somewhere that's quarter the population of London and a quarter
of the size or whatever. So it's basically an analogue with London that's just boarded off,
just like got walls up around it. Yeah, that's sad. And this was a question I had.
That's what I said. And that was still not fully aware of the whole situation. But I asked that in
the video, like, hold on, because people are saying war crimes because they're turning off power,
water, gas, all these things. And I don't really know the dynamics of this whole situation, but I
did watch a little bit of a history program, if you will, where they talked about how when the
Palestinians were kind of uprooted after, I think it was 67, but it might have been 48. I think it
was 67. One of those two wars. And they were told by the other Arab nations, hey, hold up,
chill out where you're at. Don't worry. We're going to get the Israelis out of power, and you'll
be able to establish and be back in the land. So they got stuck because they were going to migrate.
You know, migration happened. There were so many migrants all across the world around World War
One, World War Two, and people trying to get out of their country to find a better place and stuff.
And they were moved from their places where they lived. And we're going to migrate and go into
different Arab nations. And they were saying, no, no, no, hold up. So they got stuck in this little
like, we're going to wait here until something happens. And from what this video was saying,
don't know if this is factual. It seemed like it because there was historians talking on it.
But they got stuck. And that sucks. So the whole situation just, I don't know,
it's a long history of what the hell happened. You know what I mean?
Sorry. All right, this is Lawrence 22.
Legend. Thank you very much, Lawrence. So gifting memberships. He's very good at that. I really
appreciate you, Lawrence. Thank you so much for all your help and support to the channel, mate.
Nice one. Said day for you. Palestine can only come into existence if it is a secular democracy
near impossible with a constitution written by the USA, Israel, liberal Palestinians.
I give or take. I mean, I don't know that USA have to be involved there. I think maybe that
might be a bit USA centric. But actually, I would broadly agree with the general principle
that it really does need some kind of secular democracy that is representative
for it to survive, for it to come into existence and properly function. Yeah.
Thank you so much, Sid. Dr. Jay, your maps are live, John.
Yeah. So I did give a caveat that there were some issues with any of the mapping you bring up because
Israelis will disagree with some elements of the way that they're mapped and Palestinians
would disagree with other elements. I've seen other versions include like the whole of the Israel
country actually covered with the British Palestinian flag of the time. So, you know,
yes, there are elements. But the broad idea is it started off like this and then got some cut
up. And now we're at a place where you've got Gaza Strip and West Bank and West Bank itself has been
split up into smaller kind of subdivisions, if you like, given that there are settlers there and
whatnot. So hopefully that's enough caveats to make you happy, maybe. Thank you so much.
Looking for my mouse. Ozzy T gifted five ATP geopolitical memberships. Holy smokes.
Legend. Legend. It's good, good, good help. Thank you so much. Ozzy T is such a good supporter.
Really? Polly G, can leaders use lessons learned in the South African apartheid
and to minimize suffering? I remember Mandela supporting a rainbow nation, not gas whites.
So I guess this is going to have something to do with whether you have a one state solution or
a two state solution. And different people, there are pros and cons to both of those ideas.
It might be that it's too problematic to have a one state solution, given that you will have elements
of cells of jihadists that may still exist. And I don't know, you might want to just say,
right, you need to deal with that in your own nation, in this two state solution. But I guess
South Africa has come a long way. I mean, it's not perfect. There are still
governance issues there, I would argue. And don't get me started on BRICS, which is Brazil,
Russia, India, China, South Africa. But in general, there will be lessons you can learn
for there. There'll be, as you said, Derek, there are lessons to learn for the Second World War,
where you know, here we're warring nations with Hitler in charge and look where Germany has come
from. Now, interestingly, Germany did, I forget the name of its very long German word beginning with
V, which was their process of coming to terms with what happened in World War Two. And it was
like a psychotherapy, psychotherapeutical couple of decades or 50 years for them to get over that,
to look in on themselves and understand what happened and who they were. Interestingly,
to talk about Russia, Russia never did that after the Second World War, which is why they are still
pandering to this rose-tinted version of what the USSR was, and why Putin is going back to this
kind of glory days of the Soviet Union, because they never went through that inward
search for kind of self-realization. And yeah, what Palestine and Israel would need to do is go
through some kind of process where they understand who they are, where they've come from, and where
their own faults lie, right? Unless both sides can own up to what they've done, you are not going to
easily find a solution. And you'll find in the comments here, you'll have people who are still
vehemently pro-Israel and vehemently pro-Palestine, I can see it in the comments, right? And until,
for me, it's just like the very few humans on earth that are just entirely evil or entirely good.
But yes, you can find some examples, but broadly, everyone's going to have differing
variations on those themes. These two nations, you're not going to have the clear good guys and
the clear bad guys. Arguably, I would argue that that is actually what's happening. I'm kind of
contradicting myself. But in Ukraine, I'd argue that is what's happened, because you've got an
invading force that's done that. But in this situation, it's actually way more complex, I would
argue. And both sides have been involved in this escalation and this historical ladder to how we've
got here. And so they need to go through that sense of coming to terms with what they've done.
Both sides. Well said. Zachary Baldwin, I watched my pastor, Pat Nemmers, use Genesis 12.3 to justify
in any means necessary approach in taking the land back. Pastor's now cheering war crimes.
Damn. Well, that is ridiculous. And in fact, you just did a good video before this video that we're
doing here, not the one on the Ukraine, but the one that you're talking about kind of the land and
how it changed over time. And, you know, just the idea, you even bring up some of the interesting
scholars that I like, which are leaning in the minimalist camp, or at least the later ideas,
where the idea of a unified monarchy of Israel is really a construct of a later
author projecting a mythic history, I guess, or, you know, they're putting,
they're crafting a narrative about their history of being in the land way, way, way back,
promised to Abraham. I mean, that's, obviously, I think that's fictive. And you see this over and
over and people are using these texts to justify or even advocate for taking land or that we are
the ones who deserve this land or we were there first. We got a story about... We live in a pluralist
society. You can't just say, my God has entitled me to this land and just like move other people
off there. So it's like, I live here. You want to live here or we live near each other. We better
get on. Or if we don't get on, we go back to warring tribes. We go back to, you're going to
invade me because you want my land. And we've had millennia of history of that and it's still
going on. You look at Ukraine, you look at, you know, all the wars going on in the world and you
look at this one. It's a war over land. We need to somehow get to a point where, you know, that's
not what's going on. But, you know, as we've seen, it's fairly difficult to find that solution.
Thank you. Imnaq, at this point, both sides are just blasting each other away. However,
Israel has all the power resources and support. It might help to give Palestinians a somewhat
decent, I think they mean living. It's a start. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, goodness. Oh, there's
so many ways that you could take this question. So there's an interesting sociological
understanding of religion, actually. So the least religious countries in the world
are the most secure nations in the world. So the Nordic states, for example, are not very
religious. And the reason or wrapped up in that causal bundle as to why they are not religious
is because they have existential security. So existential security is like, I know that if I
lose my job, the welfare state is going to pick me up and I'll be able to pay my mortgage, pay my rent,
feed my family. I'm not going to literally die or I'm not going to be living on the streets.
And when you have existential security, you are less likely to be scrabbling for comfort elsewhere
or for looking for ways to get you out of that really big mess or whatever. And so
there is less of a functional need for a belief in God. And there's lots more to say about this.
There's education involved. There's health and there's all sorts of other things. Nations that
are warring are much more likely. So the most violent nations on earth are also the most
religious nations on earth. And it has to do a lot with existential security. So if, although
this isn't a question about religion here, the general idea would be to have a functioning society
and people who are not going to want to fight other people for resources or whatever, people need
to have a decent living. Like this is why economics is so important. This is what, you know, the
standard of living is so important to give you a quality of life. And you have a good quality of
life. You have existential security. You have no need to be scrabbling around and fighting other
people and getting really upset with life. If you've got, you know, if you've got a good living
and you're able to provide for your family, then you can start moving out and ask those
hierarchy of needs or whatever, however you understand the needs of the world, the needs of
a human. And so, yeah, I don't know if that answers at all what is talked about here. But
I think Palestinian is having a decent, I almost talked a lot about aspiration earlier,
like living, being brought up in a place like Gaza Strip. And, you know, what are your aspirations
if you're like, if you're in this open air prison camp, how, how do I make the most of my life given,
given this? And I understand that people are out there that are able to live in a greater freedom,
like physical freedom, being able to go to places and do things and become, you know,
realize their dreams. It's all, it's all part and parcel of this.
It also touches on just briefly the interviews that you sent me with the idea of, right now,
I don't think Israel can see, or at least the powers that be, and probably many of the citizens,
can see or even empathize, right? We talked about that again, that the pain they're experiencing
is not, they aren't feeling the pain of the others. And the others aren't feeling the pain
of theirs. And like, there's no compromise on even empathizing overall, which is why I think
the major tension's there. That's what Haravi calls the tribalism of pain. Yeah. Right. That's
powerful. So thank you, Imnaq, seriously appreciate it. I wish they would, of course, figure out something.
Um, this is the consequence of claiming God gave you this land, which is what we, uh...
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. Lynn Tudis, I think I'm saying that right. To be human is to
condemn both sides and the killing of innocents. I agree. You seem to not show any humanity in the
displacement of Palestinians by the Jews. No, I agree that that is, that is part of the problem
these, these solving. Absolutely. Yeah. And actually, you talked about this, Derek. You,
you, you're very big. You said, I, you, in fact, you were very clear on how you have that humanity,
how you would hate to be someone. If someone tried to move me. Right. Right. Yeah. I think
this super chat came before. I want to give Lynn, Lynn Tudis. Right. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. This is the
problem. Um, when you, when you're talking about this, and the viewers who watch, right, they're
quick to jump on anything we say wrong or don't say or don't mention. Why haven't you dwelt on this?
Why didn't you talk about that? Um, there's so much to discuss. There's so much to even think about
or talk about. And I feel like a lot has gotten lost in that hour and 20 minute video that I did,
that I did say. It just, as soon as that went, my emotions are coming up about this other thing,
and you're forgetting I did mention, and, and I very carefully caveat at the point initially,
those who have liberal mindset, probably secular humanists like you and me,
defending, uh, going out and defending, instead of condemning both, they had defended one side.
And, and I'm talking about specifically a must. It wasn't Palestinians. They,
they wanted a couple both in the same category. They were, it was really, really like, whoa,
that's why I made the video. So anyway, like, maybe I'm just now, I answered that after they
super chatted to give Lynn to this, the benefit of the doubt, but we definitely condemned the,
the killing on both sides. It's just a matter of, this is where it gets rough. Jonathan is,
okay, this just happened. How do we get Hamas? And then what does it take to do that?
And that, that's what we talked about before, which is like, if that's your,
if that's your goal as Israel, then it's a military goal. And how do you do that in Gaza?
So it goes back to what we've already discussed. So yeah,
in light of this too, though, like we want to condemn the, the killing of innocence,
period, in whatever circumstance, we don't like this, but this is where the war,
the ugly part of war comes in because it's like, what do you do then?
And the answers are not satisfying. What do we just turn the other cheek? I mean,
maybe if you're a Christian who believes that this world is nothing and to lose your life here.
Yeah, I don't, yeah, I don't want to sidetrack this discussion, but you could bring in
the Americans dropping an atom bomb on Nagasaki and Hiroshima, right? And it kind of bypasses our
moral evaluation. And we accept it as that it was a good thing because we look at the consequences
and say they did that to stop the world war, but they'd already fired bomb Tokyo. The Americans
have done some like pretty horrific bombing right across Japan. And then the atom bomb. So
the firebombing was bad enough. Then the atom bombs, like that was absolutely morally despicable.
Right. But again, it's pulled the lever. Do you do something bad to bring about a good end?
And the justification of that is that it stopped the war and millions of people
were saved as a result. Would you feel that a viewer that had your house burned in your entire
family, destroyed by those bombs? Like, how would you feel about that? Imagine that happen now.
Imagine that in order to stop the war going on, that Ukraine dropped an atom bomb on Moscow,
right, and killed all those civilians, right? We'd be absolutely, we'd be going mental.
But that's what happened in America. And so war, you're right, war brings out some horrific
decisions that, you know, at the time is like, that is absolutely despicable. But now 100 years
later, we've kind of almost forgotten how terrible a decision that would be, right? How, oh my goodness,
to drop atom bombs on entire cities. Yeah. And the movie that just came out recently,
such a good movie. And I love the struggle. He's dealing with a struggle a different way. But like,
I mean, he was directly involved in the creation of this death machine we call, you know, a nuke.
And, but his, they were challenging him, trying to paint him as the villain, and then go, well,
why are you changing your mind? I think he's realized, right? Like, it was out of his control
at some point anyway. But like, it just, it makes me think.
Well, yeah, the question is, what's the difference between, from an Israeli point of view, and I'm
not justifying this, by the way, I'm saying, is there an analog here? So what is the difference
between an Israeli saying, we need to kill Hamas, because that's the only way of solving this.
So we're going to blow up this building that's going to kill X number of civilians,
so that Hamas dies, and we win. Well, I'm simplifying it really. What's the difference
between that and the US dropping an atom bomb on Hiroshima? Like, genuinely, so if you are someone
who says that what, what, what Israel are doing is disgusting, and yet you haven't said what the
US did was disgusting. How are you differentiating those two? I'm not, I'm not, I'm actually,
I'm just interested in what's going on. I'm not saying one's right or wrong, because actually,
we can justify the American decision on the basis of the outcome that eventually took place. But
did we know that was going to happen? Was that still justifiable? Would you justify that now?
I don't know. There's loads of interesting more to discuss.
You want to stir the crowd up. That's why like, there's that, right? And there's the war path,
and then there's someone who goes, no war, and it's never called for, and it's never necessary.
And you got to kind of ask, like, in reality, what if that was you? And I don't know the answer to
your own, what you might do. Oh, gosh. All right, let's keep moving, because this...
Yeah, yeah, we need to get through it, Mike.
Yeah. Blake, thanks, Blake. Ironically, the Holy Land feels like a cursed land.
I mean, when you have so many people scrambling over it and fighting over these things,
yeah, it seems you could look at it that way. Daniel Whitaker, member for 14 months.
Thank you so much. Religion is an excuse. Nothing can justify, or nothing justifies Hamas.
Wow. Lynn Tootis, Joshua 2413, a promised made by some imaginary sky president and even stupid
or promised by the British government. Agreed. And we wonder why innocence died.
Well, sir, I think that plays a huge role, at least a catalyst in... Oh, God, it's crazy.
You won't be hearing me doing this anymore, so get me why you can't. Lynn Tootis says,
I could not watch the video with your dad. You showed anger for the Israelis, which I get,
but what about anger for the years of suffering for the Palestinians?
And so this is a very interesting point, right? That got me into trouble with a lot of viewers.
And this is the way I would use an analogy. This doesn't justify. You can have your opinion,
have your thoughts. When 9-11 happened, did anyone care about Osama bin Laden's suffering,
even when they figured out he was the planned man behind it? Why are everybody worried about
why he attacked? Why isn't everybody diving deep into al-Qaeda and understanding how he saw the
problems of what America was doing over here in the Middle East? He was so sick and tired of their
democracy, was sick and tired of everything. Go look into them. Why do we not empathize with him?
We're quick. As soon as a terrorist attack happens, to immediately look at the other things. Now,
we should. And I rightfully, in the past few days, have done that. My emotion was triggered by what
happened in 9-11. And seeing this, and I made the whole video, Israel's 9-11, right? This could
kind of analogize to say, why aren't we sympathizing with bin Laden? Yeah, I would say there's maybe
issues with the logical analogy, because we're talking about civilians who are third parties.
I agree. I agree. I understand that the emotions. Because America went into the Middle East, of
course, in areas we shouldn't have gone. There's a lot of shit that happened because of that. And
I'm just saying, if you look at what he did, and you realize why he did it, there's some overlap
to the things you'll hear Hamas saying that they're doing. And so, I'm looking at this going,
all right, that was my reaction. And I don't blame you for not wanting to watch it or even ever
wanting to watch it to begin with. I was very upset. And this was unprecedented. It hasn't happened
to them as far as they can tell in history. This is the first time something like this has occurred.
And it made the news, right? The whole world heard about this. All the other skirmishes
we haven't heard about. So, there's a bias on my end. There's also my own personal experience
that came out, things like that. And that's why I'm also wanting to back off of the topic completely.
Can I just, there's a really good question. I'm not going to answer it. Is it possible to
destroy an ideology? It's homework for everyone.
It's what?
Sorry, it's homework for everyone. Anyway, what's the next one, mate?
Yep, great and important discussion, Nikolai Demav. Thank you so much.
Thank you, Nikolai. I very appreciate that.
David the Goliath, if Israel was given to Jews due to some historical connection,
why should Ukraine not be given to Russia as Russians can easily make the same argument?
They believe Russian culture began in, is it, Kavan Rus?
Kavan? I don't know how to pronounce that word.
Kavan Rus. So, that is like a version of the Rus.
Russian, it's all to do with Russian Kavan history. Sorry. I was looking at something else.
And if Israel was given to the Jews due to some historical connection,
why should Ukraine not be given to Russia as Russians can easily make the same argument?
No, it's a really good point. And actually, people have been making that analogy before
that there are interesting analogies going cross-directional from Ukraine and Russia to
Israel and Palestine. And I would just say, yeah, it's a real problem to go back and look through
history to do these kind of justifications. That's why I was trying to, in my videos I'm
starting to do a series on Israel and Palestine, to move away from understanding borders as these
things set in stone and understanding history as having to define where you are now. Yeah,
we are informed by history, but in the Levant at the moment, you've got just humans living and
they should be able to live together in harmony, irrespective of who they believe promised that
land to them in times gone past. Thank you so much. David the Goliath,
Imnag, in a much smaller scale, Republicans and Democrats are starting to hate each other like
this. Let's just learn from our mistakes. Yeah. Such, yeah, polarization is a real problem to
living harmoniously. Yeah. And I think two parties, I don't want to derail this, but I would say
two party systems are far more vulnerable to the problems of polarization.
Thank you, Imnag. Stop scamming man, ordinarily, no matter how awful a country's crimes, there is no
serious talk of claiming their land by conquest because of it. Only against Palestine is this
straight, facedly suggested or defended. Yeah. So the idea that you've done something bad so we
can take your land, I think that's where this guy or scamming man, yeah, is going. So yes, I think,
again, it goes back to what we've already said, which is surely that there are
there are decent ways to sort this out other than trying to take other people's lands by
some form of conquest or by that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. So to cabbage too, feel bad,
but thank you for the humility and standing by principles in the situation. I don't know if it
just adds to the complex pot, but it was reported early Hamas may have initially expected to only
get a few hostages. What the I think what happened? Well, that's a good point. You might have a
situation actually, where Hamas accidentally did much better scale quotes, much better in
in with their goals in mind than they had anticipated that actually, they got a lot further
and succeeded in causing way more havoc than they were intending. And that then unleashed,
you know, retribution on a scale that they weren't predicting. But, you know, you make your bed,
you got to you got to lie lying it. And so again, it goes back to the Hamas trap. What were they
expecting Israel to do? Even even if they'd expected to only do half of the damage they're
done still going around shooting people in cold blood. What do you expect Israel to do?
Surely you knew they're reacting that way. In other words, the same, I'm going to repeat myself,
Hamas trap. Either you wanted Israel to do something back to your civilians, or you didn't
care enough that your civilians will be in the firing line. And because you basically want to
just shoot peace in the foot, you don't want to to go through this process of of conciliation with
Israel. Thank you so much, soda cabbage. Stop scheming man again, while Hamas deserves to be
fought. The idea that conquering Palestine is justified because their leaders rejected a long
defunct offer is absurd. Conquering Palestine. Yes. So basically, again, like, if Israel want to
punish Palestine by somehow, you know, wiping off the face of the map, or something like that,
I mean, it depends who you listen to. So someone like smart rich here would say that that's literally,
you know, before this last iteration, this latest iteration of the conflict manifested,
he was kind of saying stuff like this as a right wing Israeli politician serving, you know, finance
minister was basically saying that but but yeah, you yes, Hamas deserves to be fought. But, you
know, can we sit by and advocate that innocent Palestinian civilians would be conquered as a
result that if that is indeed now, I don't think Israel would be realistically trying to do that.
At least most of Israel wouldn't they realize the international community is looking on and that
involves an awful awful lot of Muslim nations who would be very, very have very strong affinity
for the Palestinian cause here. So and they're pretty much surrounded by them. And they're
trying to normalize relationships with Saudi Arabia at the moment. That's not going to work. And
you've got Jordan next door. You know, you've got Egypt is not going to work to and this is the
problem they're in like we want to react strongly but if we are too strongly or hell's going to
let loose but if we are too weakly Hamas will will you know be in the ascendancy or whatever
and there's your dilemma. Jay, Nick, thank you so much for the super chat. Let's take a minute
to show support for the innocent. Absolutely. Yeah, this is even my reaction initially, Jonathan
was like, all I could see was what happened to the innocent, you know, with Israel. And over the
past few days, I've been watching the news, seeing the bombs dropping and things like that,
realizing how many people are dying on the other side. And I'm going, damn, it's not so clear,
you know, like in terms of the end goal for me, like I, it made me go, look, I don't even know
the answer to this. I really don't. I just feel bad. It sucks. No matter how you slice it.
Jay, Nick, thank you so much for that. I hope that everybody could start empathizing. This
needs to cool down. Sid, Dave West did create Israel out of guilt of World War Two, but it also
provides a permanent Western base in the Middle East and easy access to Christian holy sites.
That's interesting. Yeah, you could say there's a geopolitical strategy going on there. So just
as a sidebar here, the only reason Russia are interested in Syria, the only reason that Russia
are involved in the Syrian war is because Syria provide a warm water port in the Mediterranean
that doesn't freeze over and gives them access to the Mediterranean and therefore the Suez Canal
and therefore the wider world. That is the only, only reason Russia are interested in Syria. It's
the only reason they are supporting the Assad regime. So this happens. This is a,
this is a thing that nations do. And that's an interesting point there. I have not thought
about that. I'll think about it. Thank you, Sid. Israel must get rid of Netanyahu to move on.
Agreed. I think they're pretty disappointed right now with what's happened anyway.
And there's a lot of blame going on for Netanyahu. So Harari was talking about that,
saying that pretty much everyone I know is not happy with Netanyahu. He's taken
the eye off the ball. There's not been enough work to be done. He's been too busy
sewing division in his own country. And this is the end result. So there's a lot of blame from
Israelis on Netanyahu. Stop scamming man again. Many Islamist characterize all civilian deaths
caused by the West as murder, yet cared very little when numerous Muslim groups caused
such and now they aren't even bothered about blatant massacres.
So any kind of extremism in my book is not, I'll tell you what's not high on their list,
empathy for other humans. So yeah, I'd agree. Whether it's Islamic extremists or any other
kind of extremist you can think of, it's not a good way to live.
No, it's not. Thank you. Stop scamming in for all the support.
Gaby Rieken, forgive me if I butchered it. Super sticker. Thank you. I'm in a different
category. I hope I didn't miss any comment by you, but I really appreciate the support.
Stephanie Suresi, if I butchered it, forgive me. The occupation of Palestine is against
international law. Yes. So this is very much true. There is, I could read out whole list of
what's pro-Palestinians, a whole list of laws that have been broken, UN Charter article two, four.
So basically, what they would say under international law, the Israeli occupation is
illegal. The Israeli settlements built on occupied lands is illegal. Israel's claim of sovereignty
over East Jerusalem is an undivided, as the undivided capital is illegal. Ethnic cleansing,
forced displacement of the occupied citizens is illegal. Israel's legalized discrimination
against the Palestinians fits in the definition of apartheid and is illegal, so on and so forth.
So there are lots of claims against Israel that the Palestinian side will level against them.
And this goes back to, well, the only way to find out if that is a case, if they are able to bring
that against the Israelis in a court of law, international criminal court, but that all the
stops are put on that by other nations like, you know, UK, US, France, and so on and so forth who
are supportive of Israel. And so there is an inability for the Palestinians to, you know,
situation they're in to bring these accusations against Israel. Do I agree that they are illegal?
I don't know enough about the legality, but I would be pretty, pretty certain that Israel
have broken international law throughout history, throughout the, you know, since 1967.
So that, again, when it just goes back to that inward looking, both sides need to look at themselves
and say, okay, what are we done wrong? We need to accept that in order to move forward. We need to
lay everything out on the table. We need to bear ourselves and understand who we are and what we've
done. And only after that can we properly move forward and live together or live next to each
other. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it, Stephanie. Alan Byrd, imagine if a foreign country could
burn or turn off the electric, the electricity, et cetera, to New York at will, yet Israel can
and Gaza, there is no equality of oppression here. That's a good point. Thank you. Yeah. So,
yeah, it's a really tough situation in Gaza, particularly. Thank you. Thank you. Neil's
Clement over there at your side, Jonathan. I don't know Derek from MythVision at all,
but interesting discussion between you. Thank you. Thank you, Neil. Really appreciate that,
mate. Very kind. Thank you. Yeah, I really appreciate the support over there.
Romy, John Dorff, Israel, if you free hostages, you get electricity.
So, there's an interesting idea that actually, maybe the Palestinians could get a little bit of
sympathy and capital from outsiders, but also, obviously, Israelis themselves if they released
the hostages. And that would go a long way to starting a process of reconciliation in some way,
or at least lessen the might that Israel, the military might bring to bear. So,
there is a good call for that, certainly, for them to do that. But the problem is,
it goes back to the idea that Hamas aren't representative, necessarily, of all Palestine
and Hamas are Islamic jihadists. That's the problem. You see what kind of worms this whole
thing is. Goodness. Jack Rory, thank you for the super chat. Demographically, is birth rate being
weaponized? I don't know what the context of that question is. I know that Hasidic Jews,
actually, some of the Orthodox Jewish communities have the highest birth rates in the world,
or they're trying very hard to have lots of babies. I don't know if that's an answer to that.
I don't know what the Palestinian birth rate is, so I can't answer that.
Thank you, Jack. Appreciate that. Romy, again, Palestine was never a country, only a subdivision.
But the answer to that would be, it doesn't matter what Palestine was. All countries started at one
point. You could say that of every country in the world. You say, well, it didn't used to be a
country. Yeah, but it is now. Yeah, but it wanted to be so much so that it became one.
What you're saying is they have no right to self-determination. That's a problem. I think
that's a distinction that is possibly problematic. I don't know. That's my opinion. I've been wrong
before. Thank you, Romy. It's when I thought I made a mistake. Stephanie, again, thank you.
Genetically Palestinians are more Hebrew than diaspora Jews. I personally want to just take a
jab and go, look, they're both related, ultimately. We're talking about distant families that are
genetically connected in some way down the line, I'm sure, at least for the most part.
I guess if the argument is I'm closer related to antiquity and this somehow gives me
pedigree for the land, that's more like almost like a religious heritage claim.
This is where we get onto the very difficult discussion of identity and whether you can
say who you are or whether there is some objective truth as to who you are. We had this problem with
Ukraine and Russia with the Russian saying, because you speak Russian and because we think you live
in a place where that is culturally Russian or was historically Russian before, you are now
Russian and you will be Russian, places like Kharkiv in the north of Ukraine. That's mainly
Russian speakers, so they will easily invade that because they all want us to be there because
they're all part of Ruskinia or whatever, the Russian world. No, it's not the case because
actually none of them or a large majority of them didn't self-identify as Russian because do you
know who gets to dictate who their identity is? They did. It's not up to Russia to dictate to
Ukrainians what their national identity is. If they say, hey, we're Ukrainian, we've got Ukrainian
language that we're happy to speak very much, we've got Ukrainian culture, therefore we're
Ukrainian. We don't want to be invaded by someone who thinks we're Russian. The same applies here,
like it doesn't really matter about the genetic, I mean that's an interesting point maybe.
I would find that interesting to look at, but the reality is if you want to call yourself a Jew
in that area and you want to call yourself a Hebrew and you want to call yourself a Palestinian,
let's go for it. The key to anything in life is are you a good person? I couldn't give a monkey's
backside whether you are any of those things. What I care about is your moral fiber and how
it might affect other people. That's what I care about, so what I want out of this if I'm like
some idealistic utopian is that everyone's just a decent moral human being and we go about our
businesses being decent moral human beings together. So what is the situation that is most
likely to promote decent moral humanity and that's what we need to encourage?
I don't give a monkey's backside. Stephanie, ironic Israel wants a final solution of Palestinians.
So this is to say that Israelis are, you know, it's the parallel to Nazi Germany.
I kind of picked that up in the previous one because this is exactly what the Muslim scholar friend
who sent me information was assuming and in that previous whole ethnicity kind of argument,
he out of one side of his mouth was like, these Jews are practically Europeans anyway,
therefore, like, are they really Jews? I mean, you know, that kind of slam and I'm going,
you know, there's been some serious anti-Jewish or anti-Semitism in the world.
Like, like, can you see the rhetoric here potentially leading to larger
again for these minority? I wouldn't I wouldn't advocate that kind of thinking.
Right, right. And I don't think this mentality that, well, isn't an interesting Israel just
wants to genocide all Palestinians. This is their goal. They've been wanting to do it.
That's kind of what I'm saying that Muslim scholar was trying to say is that
this is all part of the plan. Don't you know that they wanted Hamas to attack so that they
could find an excuse to go eradicate them all. And this is the whole goal. And it's like, oh,
my gosh, pretty crazy. Anyway, oh, sorry, Sid Dave says Israel Palestine is complex.
Here immigrants follow the original religion of the land Judaism and speak the native language
Hebrew, whereas the native Palestinians speak Arabic and religion exported from Arabia.
Yes, it is complex. Immigrants follow original religion and land Judaism. I'm not quite sure
what to make how to make sense of that. I'm sorry. I'm trying to parse it.
But again, it goes back to I don't really care what what they speak and what the culture is as
long as it is morally fits in with my idea of and I know that's going to be me centric.
But but you know, I've got to a point where in my earlier atheistic days, I'd be like really
trying to convince religious people out of their religious beliefs because I'm like,
you're wrong. Accuracy is correct. Accuracy is important. It's the most important thing. And I
need it that everyone in the world has an accurate worldview and an incorrect worldview is
just not cool. Now I've kind of tailored that to chill out a bit more and say, do you know what?
You can believe what you like as long as it is morally consistent with my moral worldview.
And and morality is it has primacy. So, you know, what you speak and how how you conduct
yourselves only matters is this idea of mattering only matters if it has moral implications on
others or dozens. Sid, thanks for the super chat. Stephanie against Palestine has a right by
international law to fight. Quite possibly. Do they have a right to kill civilians in cold
blood? Obviously, no. So, you know, and then where where do you go from, you know, from
those two extremes of doing nothing to doing terrible things? Somewhere in the middle is
something reasonable. Yeah. But again, that's the same also applies to Israel as well.
Thank you. AJ Simo, a donation to the London Pride Brewery. Is that you?
That is. That's thanks, AJ Simo. Really appreciate that. And cheers to that. Although,
I was trying not to make a big thing about me drinking, given Derek's background.
Dude, no, I don't trust me. People need to celebrate. If I knew how,
I'd be having one with you, man. I'm not that kind of guy. Like it's not like tiptoe around me.
And don't you do these things that I don't know? It's like because I can't control myself and I
don't even want to play around and pretend like I might one day be able to. That gives no one no
right to have to fill a tiptoe. So, enjoy your drink, my friend. Trust me. I get my wife a margarita
and wine from time to time. I buy it for her. So, do not feel bad. Do not feel bad. And thanks, AJ.
It is an awesome community. I love my community. Really great. Thank you. Absolutely. And I hope
more of my community that's interested in like geopolitics stuff will go over there and check
you out because I'm sure that there's overlap in many ways. And as you know, you've been on the
channel, you know, people will love you here. So, Sid Dave, are Palestinians descendants of biblical
Hebrews? I mean, there's some connection to the Canaanites. I mean, you've got also, I mean,
you've got movement over time. You've got the Ottoman. You've got through Judaism or through
kind of ancient Israel and then Hellenized Jews. And then you've got, yeah, as you say, Phoenicians
and Philistines and Canaanites and all sorts of different people than the Ottoman Empire and then
the Saracens and then the Byzantine Empire actually before that. So, yeah, there's all of
the above. Yes, maybe. Why not? We're all mutts at this point. Olivia Williams, another reason
Israel was given to the Jews was to cause the Second Coming and it's why they are getting
financement from many Christian organizations. I have to agree that there is a lot of Zionist
Christian organizations that they see this as the ticket that gets Jesus flying on a cloud back to
earth and ending the whole shindig. I do think that that is there. I think I heard a speech once
actually saying that some of the motivations, even for Osama bin Laden, you know, and his hatred
toward America plays in its support of the Israeli state and things like that. So, and it has to do
with the fact that like, there's been a huge backing of the Zionist state and stuff. So,
I've heard some speech somewhere in the past, but did you have a thought on that?
I was just looking ahead to some of the questions and already thinking of answers. Sorry,
I do have a thought on that and I think it's a real problem, but I might go off on one. Yes,
I think that is an issue. Okay. Lynn Tootis, apologies if I was too harsh. I think emotions
are high. No doubt. Do not worry about apologizing at all. I get it. Like, I understand and I'm sorry
if I've come across heated in this. So, it also makes me angry when innocent kids die for nothing
basically. There has to be a compromise. Goodness. I love it. Yeah, that's great. I totally agree.
Thank you so much. TTT. Legend. I'm going to call them legends when they join you and I'm going to
call them myths when they join me. So, you could be a myth and legend at the same time. How about that?
Constellation Pegasus. The United States can be energy independent, but our stupid politicians
won't have it. If we were, then stuff like this conflict would be easier on us because the oil
producing countries there would have no power over us. So, I know that Constellation Pegasus has
disagreed me politically before when I've been on my channel actually, on my ATP channel. I
absolutely agree with this sentiment. Now, I don't know whether Constellation Pegasus is
advocating for you guys to be oil independent and maybe, but I always thought Obama was spot on
and was never allowed to fulfill this, which was to make America the green technology center of the
world because it's all about strategic planning for the future. You say, right, here's where we're
going. Whether you like it or not, this is where we're going. I mean, I don't like Elon Musk a lot
as all my followers will know. All my subscribers will know not followers. But he's kind of,
he's reading the future and placing, he's doing his strategizing. The U.S., I think every country
should be doing their absolute utmost to be energy independence. And you can do that with
the use of, yeah, you might need Niko at the center of it, but wind and solar is coming on leaps and
bounds. Absolutely. Because what happened after the Ukraine-Russia conflict started and it was
all about oil and hydrocarbons, oil and gas, what really annoyed me is that Boris Johnson was super
strong in the UK and stood with Ukraine. It was fantastic. But then he said, right, we need energy
independence and the moment we're getting too much oil from Russia and whatnot. So we then
immediately went to Saudi Arabia and places with just as bad human rights records that are just,
you know, it's like going, yeah, this is absolutely terrible over there. I think you're
disgusting at what you're doing. So I'm going to go over here to another
disreputable source to just replace the hydrocarbons from there. So it's just like,
well, no, this is our chance. You never had a better chance to become energy independent,
which should be part of your national security strategy. If you are not relying on other nations,
like think about Gaza. Gaza wasn't relying on Israel for its everything. Then it would be in a
wholly different situation. But it does. And so that compromises. And he's absolutely right. The US
strategy is not just a US strategy. You know, many Western nations or many nations strategies
are compromised by their dependence on oftentimes nefarious actors, because it turns out that most
countries on earth with really good hydrocarbons resources end up being anti or not democratic.
There's a really interesting, I was reading a paper recently about the inverse correlation between
democratization. So the amount of democracy you have and, you know, high levels of natural resource,
hydrocarbons, natural resource. So you look at, yeah, America's lucky. But then you go around,
you know, you look at Russia, you look at Saudi Arabia, you look at a lot of places in the Middle
East, you look at Venezuela, you look at a number of places in Africa, and you think,
yeah, these are not the most democratic places on earth, and they have an awful lot of oil,
and we shouldn't be relying on them. So that's my big sidebar. Totally agree. Absolutely.
Thank you. Thank you. Barak, thank you for being, or super chatting. Jonathan, Israel with
Drew Gaza in 2005 got rockets in terror. So yes, I mean, it's a bit more complicated than that.
So we go back to 2005. I mean, this was when Hamas got in or just after that. So 2005, you had the,
in 2000, you had a second enter into father, so that's like a big get up in arms in, in Gaza.
So the 2002nd into father, that's as a after a visit from Ariel Sharon, violence and clashes
continued until 2005, with hundreds of casualties on both sides, support from Hamas grows within
Palestine, because of the willingness to fight Israel due to all of these issues.
And then Hamas is, is then voted in. But then when you look at all of the, the flashpoints
after that, each flashpoint, the number of casualties that died, Palestinian casualties
that died far outweighed the number of Israeli casualties. And it's a real, there's a real
disparity there is a real asymmetry there. So when you look in 2008, when you look in 2012,
when you look in 2014, so 2014, 2,200 Palestinians over 2,200 and 60 Israelis.
So when these flashpoints do happen, the amount of deaths on the Palestinian side
are much higher. And then it goes back to this issue, like, well, what are those families and
what do those people who've got loved ones and friends died do? You know, do they end up,
are they more likely to join Hamas? Is this just the way of perpetuating the problem?
Yes. It sucks, Jonathan. It sucks because it's going to create more hate. And then it keeps per,
you know, you got, you got to fight back and you got to, so some, that's why I say someone's
got to come in and try to help resolve it. You know, I mean, that's my opinion. I wish
that could self resolve it, but it doesn't seem that that's ever happened since this is all began.
So H not to lead tweeted, but they bombed the hospital, then deleted it to blame it on Hamas,
plus the destruction caused by Hamas rockets is laughable compared to what hit the hospital.
Why secular Buddha worshipping Israelis near Gaza?
So that, I'm not really sure. I think this is like the idea that Hamas didn't hit the hospital.
I think we talked about this already. I mean, I can point you towards loads of really good
analyses of this. I'm almost certain that it was a stray Hamas rocket. There wasn't that much
destruction. The car park, there's no crater. There's a lot of burnt out cars. And there
probably is a number of deaths, but he's just impossible for 500 people to have died.
It just wasn't how it was originally portrayed.
We often talk about like pieces of the bomb were found and they were actually
rocket Iranian rockets or something like that. Is that you've got a high, you've got a high
flammable explosion. When you drop a JDAN from a plane, it's a really big bomb,
but it's not an explosive fire bomb. It will cause a massive crater, which there was no crater.
JDANs drop, they cause big craters. These are big bombs. They come in different sizes,
but 250 pounds, 500 pounds and more. The rockets will, especially if it's only just taken off,
it will have a lot of propellant that will propel it through the air. And if it falls
relatively close, which is what they've done with tracing out all the rockets were sent out,
and they all went in these directions and one of them landed on a hospital that was
just in front of it, it's going to have a lot of propellant left. So there's a lot of fire to be
had there. And what's caught on video is a very fire explosion. It's not a JDAN explosion,
which is a type of bomb, as I say. So all you piece together, all these bits of the jigsaw,
and unless there's more information I'm alerted to, then it's almost certainly
a mass rocket. Now, this is pretty normal. It's not like, oh my goodness, that stuff happens in
war. Missiles fly off and go dud or don't work an awful lot. And as we were talking about earlier,
there are some analyses that say maybe 40% of the Hamas rockets are doing that. They're not
good quality. So I don't know. That's my toughness. Thank you, S. Rob, for the super chat. Really
appreciate it. Theologian seeker. As a Muslim, I appreciate Sid's honesty and objectivity. However,
let's be straight here, guys. Palestine was indeed a land belonging to the Muslims. It's
Orthodox Judaic law to reside under Arab authority. I would absolutely disagree with that,
is no one's land unless you make it your land. No one has a right to a land objectively.
This is why I wanted to talk about how borders don't exist. It's just agreements between people,
it's consensus. That land is whoever can agree amongst themselves to have ownership over that land.
That's how humans work. I mean, we're not even considering animals here, right? But no,
that's how history has led towards land belonging to one nation over another,
one group of people over another. But there's no objective idea that that land belongs to,
or any piece of land belongs to anyone. It's something that has to be sorted out by humans.
It doesn't matter what Orthodox Judaic law is. It doesn't matter what Islamic law says. As far as
I'm concerned, in a pluralistic society, that's why we need secular regulations or secular societies
to exist, because that's the only way you can navigate people who believe in different gods
and different religions. Thank you. Yeah, that, I guess, could be a deep dive you could do on your
show. And you're doing a series just in case anyone's interested and you're into, you're going
to be covering this in depth, right? The Israel-Palestine, okay. Well, yeah. If you want to hear
what Jonathan says on this, and he's been covering geopolitics and stuff, subscribe to him.
Ricky Johnson, just getting here, looking forward to listening to the whole discussion
while I work tomorrow. Love you guys. Ricky's a legend. Thanks, Ricky. Appreciate it. Rainbow
Krampus, grim reminder, this will eventually be solved by climate change drying up the Jordan
and saltwater incursions into aquifers making, what is this? Israel unlivable. Is that not,
is not far wrong? I mean, there is, so Israel, we talked about how Gaza can't produce any of its
own stuff. Actually, Israel isn't very good. It has to get its water through desalination,
which is a very inefficient way of producing fresh water. It's not a very big country. There's no
there's no geographical, deep strategic, there's no strategic depth to Israel. If Israel is attacked,
like Ukraine is attacked by Russia, it can like cushion that blow with hundreds and hundreds of
miles of land, right? And then you can fight and it's a massive country. So you could, Israel is tiny,
like if there's no depth to go back, it's very small. And so therefore it doesn't have huge
amounts of natural resources. It's too small to have huge reserves and not in the right place.
So actually, you know, it is, it is going to be that whole area. I mean, you dam a river,
like the river Jordan, you dam that at the top because you want that water and everyone down.
There will be a huge problem with fresh water going forward in the world when nations that want
that fresh water can dam it at source and then use it. And then the people down river like,
hey, hang on, we've had that for 2000, 10,000 years. Where's a water gun? It's like, yes,
oh, Walter, it's up here. Thank you very much. Water will become a bit like oil, a driver for
for discord in the world. Anyway, I'm going off on one carry on.
Why do you go on? I was kidding.
Said Dave, Jews look looks like the people of the land they come from. European Jews look European,
Iranian Jews look Iranian. It is a religion, not an ethnicity.
Yeah. And that's going back to an earlier point made, which is, yeah,
that goes to your identity. If you see yourself as Jewish, then, hey, you can be black Jewish.
And that that's that's absolutely no problem, because it is a religion or cultural religious.
Although there are some people that say you there is cultural Judaism as well,
which is based geographically around there. But hey, you can you can be part of that and
a different ethnicity. Yeah. That's a whole different rabbit trail. Your side, the Little
Whiskey Shop. JP, as you say, morality is in mind, different faiths have different moral
parameters. Where do you draw the line as what is fine for you is not fine for me. This is why
you need secular regulation in in your country. We are in the UK, not a secular nation, interestingly,
but we are effectively secular. USC is a secular nation, but they're striving really hard not to
be due to the religious Christian nationalists and so on there. So it is a challenge to all of us
to maintain ideas of secularism. It's so important in a pluralistic society. People think secular
is to the benefit of atheists or is an atheist kind of way of thinking is not.
It's the only way you can navigate pluralistic societies. If you have people who fundamentally
disagree on religion, you need to have a somewhere in the middle that is not religious,
that is, you know, moral but not religious so that you can exist as a country and all live
together. Otherwise, you just become kind of theocracies and whatnot. So yeah. But what's fine
for you is not fine for me. I don't know where you draw the line. I mean, I do, I know for me,
but people disagree. But that's why you vote in people to agree with you to enact laws that
represent what you believe. Thank you, everybody, for taking your time. Give me a chance to
kind of vent and tell you what I learned even over three days. There's a lot. And Jonathan,
I really appreciate you. I mean, you help me, you know, think through and try to back up because
you know, I have emotional response and felt justified in responding because of the things
that happen. And so I just want to say thank you for that. I hope people will go subscribe to you.
I hope our biggest takeaway is try not to get caught up in the tribalistic
mentality but have empathy, understand, you know, it sucks.
Yeah. Yeah. No, I absolutely agree with that sentiment. And you know, part of me is like
pretty depressed because it doesn't seem like there's any easy answer to this. And that sucks
because the people who suffer the most and the most vulnerable in society almost always.
And in this case, you know, people in Gaza are, you know, are going to suffer the most. There's
no doubt about that. But that's not to take away from the suffering of people in Israel at the hands
of some of the atrocity, you know, the Hamas terrorists and so on and so forth. So it's again,
it's the understanding that both sides have issues. Both sides need to be introspective,
but there's going to have to be help from outside. And I mean, I'm pretty,
pretty damning of the UN in general in being a bit of a toothless
entity, but there needs to be help from entities like that from the outside coming to clear up
this mess because leaving those, leaving my two, but if I just close the door and leave my two boys
fighting on the lounge floor, then, you know, there will be broken bones and bloody noses.
And that is just what's going to happen. So actually at some point, I've got to stop in,
step in and separate them and say, look, how do we resolve this all together?
And then, you know, there is this element of like the geographical area needs to come together,
the wider world needs to come together. And there needs to be accountability and conciliation
and moving forward and a grand plan for a future and for what fact geographical area
might look like for everybody. Absolutely. And that was a really,
really good response because it couples into that interview. You had me watch both of the interviews,
but that was the whole thing, like globally, how can we fix, how can we make this bigger?
And that came from both of the interviewees. One, a liberal Israeli and the other one
was the UK Palestinian ambassador. Allen Bird says, if the world condemns Israel's
occupation and demands a just solution with the same vehemence, vehemence,
they condemn Hamas, then Hamas would disappear. So whichever one you want to, however you want
to approach this, because like some will go, well, you know, they'd want to reverse the statement,
right? Because some might be just now figuring this out and going, look at what Hamas just did.
I didn't even know all this stuff's happening. I think that like you said, just overall,
involvement from other people, other nations need to get in and try to resolve, help them resolve
what they obviously don't know how to resolve themselves. And I think that's going to deal
with changing the leadership and how it's structured on both ends, how it's structured.
Because there's a huge problem on both ends at the top.
That's a really interesting comment there, Allen, by the way. There's a lot to think about in that
comment. That's all I'm going to say to that. I'm going to go away and have a bigger think about
that. John Larkin says, this is brilliant. I really appreciate that. But can I just end with this?
Eric, if you don't mind, I mean, I'm not one to be self-congratulatory to affirm my own
awesomeness. But JP for world president. I just want to throw that out there. But actually,
Michelle Dimitrov has said that. So it's not me throwing it out there, but just thank you. I'll
take that. I mean, not to toot your horn, but doot, doot. No. You really, really are a legend.
And I do appreciate you coming in and kind of helping me walk through it. And also letting
the audience experience this with me to understand that like, I'm just somebody in America who really
just, you know, I'm in a privileged position here trying to just voice how I felt and also
voice where I'm at and how I feel now. I feel a little different than I did the other day. Actually,
I feel a lot different when you start to take in a bigger picture of humanity and not just
the atrocities from one perspective. There's a lot of history here. And I think there's a lot
of learning over the years I'm going to have to do as I dive into this. Yeah. And just thanks for
inviting me. Thanks for an hour to do this together. Really appreciate that. Thanks to all
my guys who have joined in and watched this. And I'm no expert. Goodness me, I'm no expert on this
neck of the woods. It's been a learning curve for me as well. But it's, yeah, just a big hot mess.
And I hope we can find a solution so that, you know, I hope no more for no more civilians losing
their life as Vilal Hill says. So, you know, absolutely. So thanks, man. And take care,
everybody. Thanks for listening. Do you have an outro? I can sing. I'm pretty, no. Okay,
we'll hear you. All right. Well, thank you, everybody. Love you. And man, let's hope this gets better.
