As far as the quest for the historical Jesus, are there sources that the New Testament authors
might be using we don't find in our New Testament maybe are lost to history,
which would give us background knowledge on understanding how they're perceiving Jesus?
Maybe Paul. Does this help support mythicism or historicism and how do both scholars,
doctors Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier, deal with this particular question?
Also, the topic of memory and scholarship are really the Gospels this collection of memories
and could it be accurate if they were or did they have a literary intention?
And their whole goal wasn't what factually literally happened,
but the meaning that they're trying to convey while writing their literary devices.
This question I have, I hope I phrase this in the right way.
It's in the vein of historicity, but it might be beyond that. There's something deeper here,
maybe that you can discuss. Can you please elaborate in what way the literary sources
the New Testament authors used may impact one's approach to the question of historicity?
Also, are there like deviant manuscripts? So sometimes you mentioned they might have
had a text that we don't even have today. We have no evidence of this today,
but they had something maybe different. And you're talking pre-Christian literature that
they're using, right? Like today we don't have Enoch and our can share the Ethiopian church,
but why aren't we all using it since we know it's being referenced many times in the New Testament?
Also, Greek epics and things like that, like how does that impact the historicity? And even
if you approach it, I'll finish with a question saying this, even if you say there's a guy,
in what way does your approach say, look, this, you shouldn't be so confident on what you think
you know about Jesus in the New Testament, because this is the manuscript traditions that
are probably being used. And then you maybe take it into why you think this might impact
mythicism. What's the name of the questioner? Me, Derek Lambert. Oh, Derek Lambert.
Yes. I want to enrich the notion of sources to either intertexts or antatexts,
because the Gospels are really intertextual playgrounds. They've got Jewish texts,
they've got Jewish apocryphal texts, they've got Greco-Roman texts. And in some cases, these are
resourced as though they were scriptures. In other cases, they're sources. And I think the most
important source to answer your question is the Q document, which is a hypothetical document that I
am sure existed in some form. I've tried to reconstruct it. And it is the most important
witness to the historical Jesus of all in my judgment. So there we have a potential source.
And of course, the Gospels become sources to each other. Mark becomes a source to Matthew,
Matthew, and Mark becomes sources to Luke. The synoptics become a source to John, and John also
has, you know, various stages of composition. And in my view, Q becomes, it was a source already
for Mark. So that's a source. But Richard and I also want to increase the number of possible antatexts
to include biblical texts, texts that are Jewish texts that may have been lost. And both of us are
open to the notion that the Gospel authors are heavily indebted to Homeric epics. Now that plays
a part in this discussion, because to the extent that Richard agrees with my assessment of
indebtedness to the Homeric epics, it means here we have a strategic and a sophisticated
mythologizing project going on in the Gospels. And it makes the historical quest for Jesus
much more difficult, because these tales do not come from oral tradition or some kind of
accurate memory, but from the brilliance of literary composition to make Jesus superior
to the likes of Homer or Euripides. I mean, Euripides, Odysseus, or Achilles, and so on.
So that's a very important ingredient that Richard and I agree on, more or less,
that that is a layer of mythologizing. But the Q document, or if you wish, Matthew,
if you don't buy the Q document, also has a mythologizing project with Deuteronomy. So Deuteronomy
sometimes is a source of quotations. We have lots of quotations of Deuteronomy and the synoptics,
but it's also a literary model. So sometimes we have Jesus imitating texts so that he's the new
Moses. He climbs up on a mountain and gives a law to 12 followers and so on. This has been well
recognized, but it often is confused as a source. It really is a literary model. Then the question is,
if we have such vibrant and extensive imitations of antecedent models and not just sources
in the synoptics, how do we remove that mythologizing layer to find out what happens with, let's say,
traditions about Jesus' teachings or controversies over the Jewish law or other things that can't be
explained in terms of literary dependence? So this question is not just a question of sources,
it's a question of models and other potential ways of thinking of intertexts. Sometimes they're
continuous with the end of text, sometimes they're rivals, but in any case we have a layer of
mythologizing. No matter if you're a historicist or a mythicist, that layer of mythologizing is
real. The question is, can one penetrate underneath that cloud of mythologizing to find the origins of
the Jesus movement? And one way to do it is to go to Paul, which is a primary way that both
historicists and mythicists will work, because Paul is not involved in the narrative mythologizing
the same way that the Gospels are. So your question is rich. I don't think it has to do with so much
textual criticism in terms of what manuscripts they're using. I think it has to do with what is
the literary commitment of these authors and how does mythologizing work in the literature?
And then one accounts for that, how does one peel back the onion? Now the mythologist would say,
when you peel back the onion, it's all layers and there's no core. I'd like to think that you can
peel back some layers and still find the nuggets. So maybe that's a helpful image.
Yeah, and that's the project, right? So that's why people often, sometimes people will say, well,
if it's all myth, why not just dismiss it? We can't use it and you could have your chapter 10
could just be one page, right? That kind of thing is like, no, because you actually can do what you're
talking about. It is theoretically possible that you can extract history from a mythological text.
There's various tools, various criteria and techniques you can use. We've developed these
methodologies in the field, so you do have to examine. Do those methods work? How strongly do
their conclusions come out? What are the relative probabilities? So it takes work. You actually do
have to take the evidence seriously and look and see what are the best arguments that you can pull
out of here. How strong are they in the end? So it takes analysis. That's why the book is
quite long because you have to go through. You actually have to take seriously the arguments
for historicity and actually look at the methodologies, which ones that do work, which ones
don't, which ones work on the text we have and which ones don't and so on. So that's where the
debate is if you're talking about specifically, especially the Gospels, but even Paul, if you're
going to analyze this stuff, there are methods and techniques that you have to examine and you
have to have that debate, basically. But when it comes to your specific question, is the Gospels,
I think, is what you're talking about mostly, is how mythologized Jesus is. It obviously,
once you recognize, I think that's the key difference is there are historians who operate,
especially lately, is the fashion, is the memory theory, that the Gospels are just
random collections of memories that have been exaggerated, right, or something like that.
But Dennis and I are looking at it as, I don't see that. Actually, first of all, it's a presupposition,
but if you look at it, I think it's worse than a presupposition because I think the evidence is
very clear that these are extremely well-literarily crafted pieces of work. So if this is a literary
project, not a memory collection project, and that changes how you would get at, because you
could, what you'll see is some of the latest scholarship, they'll do memory theories. We're
going to apply memory theory to the text and extract history and say that does not work because
that's not what's going on here. So if there's history in here, you need different tools to
get at it, and that's how it affects. That's one way of many that this affects the problem.
When Robert Price debated Bart Ehrman to give you an example, and you might actually agree with
Robert on this, this is where I'd love to hear your thoughts and get you to continue.
At one point, and I understand where Bob was coming from, and Ehrman just dismissed this and
kind of did really... There was a lot of that in that debate, but yeah. Yeah, Bob said, all right,
you got pigs into the water, and he's already thinking about you when he says this, but not
only you, he goes... I'm the pig? No, the whole... The Homeric reference, yeah. The Homeric reference
of the pigs being kids and water, and he's like, okay, you know, Bart, we get all the myth that we
know is myth. You cut that out, what do you got left? And he stood on a mountain and he said this
sermon, or, you know, Jesus wet, or like, I don't know, like, you cut that part out of that scene
or something, like, what do you have left? And Bart tries to do that. He uses this methodology
where he says, it's almost like Thomas Jefferson, when he cuts his Bible up, it says, all right,
what do we got left? This is a methodology that historians, and I'm not talking about you, but
others are using at the Gospels. We cut all that out, we got Jesus now. Bart does that in his book,
and you're like, oh, so sloppy. Like, no, that's not good, because it agrees with this idea that
this is textual literary devices being used purposely. You can't just snip that out and
here you have Jesus. Well, so, I mean, let's make clear, there's a difference between the tools,
there are these tools that exist. Some are fallacious, it is true. Some are valid tools,
but they're misused. I think, for example, Airman will take a valid tool and misuse it.
That doesn't discredit the tool. So, the critique there has to be the proper responses.
You're not using it right, and here's why. So, these tools do exist. There are ways to try and
figure this out. Sometimes it's not possible. Sometimes it is. And so, that's why this debate
has to happen. I think Airman can be a little bit slipshot sometimes in his application of the tools,
but there are historians who are more sharp about this. So, I think, you know, the best way to come
at this, especially if you're coming from the myth society, is to steel man the argument.
You do have to deal with the weak arguments because everybody will keep citing them,
but you do want to put front and center as much as you can the best arguments, the steel man,
steel man the case as best as possible. I want to talk about memory theory a little bit,
because I think Richard is exactly right, but I think people who think memory theory helps in
recovering the historical Jesus are really not reading memory theorists, because there is an
empirical science of memory retention. That's right, yeah, and they cite it a lot. But the point
of a lot of memory research is that people can view the same event and two hours later have
very different memories of that event, and that memory is determined by issues of gender or
race or cultural factors. You might have amnesia, and now we're talking, in the case of the New
Testament, the reliability really of memory that goes all the way to Papias from the time of Jesus.
Well, Papias is finally writing around 110, and Jesus dies, what, in the 32 or something? We're
talking about a nearly a century. Now, please give me a study of memory that has that level of
reliability even granted that people would have longevity. Let's say that people knew Jesus,
and they kept living into the second century. That probably happened in occasional cases.
That doesn't, I can tell you I'm 77, and I don't have a good memory about it. What happened when
I was a kid? So this idea of using memory theory is really a game of cards. It's, it really is not
reliable, and in fact studies of memory show how unreliable memory is. Let me give you an example.
A big court problem that we have right now is do adults remember being sexually abused in
childhood, and there are correct memories, there are false memories, there are malicious memories,
and we have a whole branch of forensic psychologists that are trying to figure out
how to tease out appropriate memory from inappropriate memory, but memory is a guarantee
of diddly squat. And then if you add layers of tradents, so it's memory of someone else's memory
of someone else's memory of someone else's memory, it compounds the problem. Memory does not get you
where you want to if you want to recover the historical Jesus from oral tradition.
And it's interesting, I came at this, like before I even started seriously in the biblical studies,
I came at this already from oral folklore studies, because when I was at Berkeley,
some of the work that I read and worked on in school related, for example, I took several
courses in Native American history, and there's a lot of anthropology, and also I took cultural
anthropology, there's a lot of overlap. And a lot of it, you're looking at a lot of essays and research
by anthropologists on how to use oral lore from within Native American cultures. And the unanimous
conclusion is that, well actually, I noticed that from the same person who's telling me the story,
it changed from one day to the next, depending on the context and the purpose of the story.
Who the interviewer is, I mean, there's pollution that way.
Yeah, so story, and what they notice is the way it changes is that these stories are malleable
because the meaning of the story is more important than any of the details of a story.
So it's perfectly acceptable to alter the story in any way you need to convey the meaning
in the context you're in. So the stories, like the idea, our idea of veretical accuracy is not
the norm in human cultures. The norm in human cultures is the concepts, the ideas, the message
is more important than any of the particulars. The rationalizing of history is actually kind of a
peculiar feature of the Greco-Roman development. And even then, you see tons of, you see them
falling back into the same sort of conceptual way of constructing history rather than factual.
When I've written about it, I've talked about the appeal to oral tradition as a convenient cop-out,
in some cases used almost promiscuously. That it really, because it's not falsifiable or
verifiable, because we don't have any textuality one way or the other to demonstrate it.
And because a memory itself is unreliable, it really can be used to defend any damn thing you
want to when you get caught. So just so I could you guys repeat all of that? I don't remember.
Well, there's another comment here question, though. You asked about why should Christians today care
about Enoch or other of these pre-Christian apocrypha that Christians clearly relied on
for some of their concepts? And do you have like a general answer to that?
Oh, well, they certainly did. But we have to be disciplined about how we tease that out. And we
have to recognize that they're not trying to be xerographic when they use those texts. They're
actually trying to be creative. And they'll put them together in various constellations that we
would never think of doing. It also sets a background knowledge that I talked to you earlier about
that, the idea that so Enoch is important because not because you think, well, it's not a scripture.
Why do I care? But it actually represents an entire mindset and an understanding of the cosmos and
its history that is the backdrop for everything that's going on in all their writing. So you aren't
going to understand Paul or the Gospel authors or if you don't understand Enoch, because they believe
the stuff in Enoch is history or is cosmically relevant. So it affects the context of what
they're thinking and what their audience is thinking. So if you want to understand the
original meaning of these texts, you have to get in the mindset of the people of that time.
And that means being familiar with the media that they were absorbing and taking seriously.
