Ladies and gentlemen, the end, the real end, is upon us.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to MythVision podcast. I have Gnostic informant joining
us today. How are you doing, Neil?
Doing great. I'm looking forward to this live. Let's do this.
I am too. I'm over here trying to figure out how to use my equipment.
That's why I just hit that. It's so easy. You just set it down.
Well, you know what, man? I figure we would do another follow-up. I've been getting a
lot of notifications. I am subscribed, of course, but I'm subscribed to several people
and lately I've been getting a lot by Ruslan. So before you feel like I'm just taking aimless
jabs at this gentleman here, my hope is at some point to go in person and talk with him,
of course, about why the evidence is not convincing and why I am not a believer anymore.
I would want to really spell this out and go in depth with him to discuss these kind of issues.
And if you notice something too, I got to show this. This is very important. Look very carefully
at some of these thumbnails. You see the circles? They're highlighting very important pieces of
information like ancient lost city of Sodom discovered you saw yesterday. Look at the blurred
thing that he doesn't want you to see that's there. It's a thing. No, he's very close.
That's a slick way to make a thumbnail because someone's scrolling down and just scrolling
through YouTube looking for some content. And they see that circle with the zoom in.
They're clicking. And then that's it. He got your click. He's got the add role playing.
He's got it. You can stay if you leave now. It is smart. I'm not knocking it.
The thumbnail is a slick way. Very slick. I've done it a few times.
Let's be real. Some of this stuff is extremely sensational. And so for those who are curious
what I mean by sensational, a person who presents stories in a way that is intended to provoke
public interest or excitement at the expense of accuracy. This adjective presenting stories in
a way that is intended to provoke public interest or excitement at the expense of accuracy.
I do want to say to give them benefit of doubt, the YouTube algorithm and you and I have been
really noticing this lately really like forces people into making titles and thumbnails that
you might not really wanted to do. You're like, what? I know that if I do it like this,
I'll get 10 times the amount of views. Yeah. So it's like I don't even really knock them for that,
but that's not even. That's yeah. I mean, people will knock you no matter what. I've fans of mine
who don't like the this will blow your mind. I get it. I see those types of get over the fact
that it says this will blow your mind since I'd say 70 80 percent of the viewers who've never
heard it really do feel like this is shocking, great, amazing information. Don't spoil the fun
for everybody, right? That's what I've noted. Like a lot of these videos where I'll do that,
I'll put like Roman religion, or this is mind blowing. And some people will say, come on with
the mind blowing stuff, dude. Then I'll have another person five minutes later say my mind is
everybody has their own way to how they look at it. Yeah. Yeah. And look, some people are far more
red. So this is not shocking information. It might even be stuff they're like, I've known that for
10 years. Okay. What is I mean, why, why type that out? Did you need the attention since you
knew this information already? Is it everybody pat the genius in the chat, you know, on the back?
Look, we all get it. Just try to let others experience things for the first time and enjoy.
And in fact, I'm coming across information that I'm certain viewers. I have such a smart following
of people who watch us because they're critical thinkers. There's people who investigate research
the myths and legends and ancient literature. I'm just now coming across. And I don't know if you
know this by now, Neil, but you probably do. I get excited when I discover this stuff. So I want
to make this exciting as possible for more people. That is the goal. Exactly. And a lot of this stuff
is you got to go read an article that is found, you know, somewhere hidden on the web or book.
And so most people aren't reading this material. That's what what's his name from
from the website. What's it called the Hold on one second. Perseus Tufts. Yeah.
That's what he said to us. He said, I like what you guys are doing because a lot of this stuff
are a lot of the stuff that's happening in academia is academics writing journal articles for other
academics using language that most people will not understand. They're not up to they're not
they don't know Greek or he were like they're they can't read these journals. You and I are
trying to be the medium and bring it to the to the people who are at our level as far as like
not having that academic lingo not understanding all that stuff, but having being able to like
reinterpret it for people like you and me. Right. That's because we came across this material.
But the way we did it was not packaged this way. I mean, I've looked on YouTube, you're going to
find some good stuff here and there. And then there's some of this material that I've never seen
packaged in a way that's like there's a lecture where a scholar might mention something and
passing in a lecture or something. And it's like, how many people viewed that? And then you look
and you're like 700 views, eight year old video, 700 views, eight years on the internet and like,
whoa, how come this is not out there more? So I made the thumbnail, of course. And you see,
I did the circle trick where I just took you closer to Ruslan's eye to point out the secret
in this video that you're going to discover in the end. You won't know till you watch this whole
live stream what the secret here with the eye is. There is no secret. I'm just literally saying that
because that's the kind of stuff that gets you to click. It's psychological. But there's a lot of
videos, Neil, that I've come across on his channel. And we know Christian content creators, different
apologists that are out there that have different angles. But I got to give this guy some credit,
but I also got it. So it's a double edged sword here. And part of it's like, cool, good, good move,
business move, right? You're hitting like the Joe Rogan's, you're hitting all the popular,
I would almost call it a drama Christian channel, because what he wants is that clout and attention
at the same. And that's the good business move. The other part is, is like the accuracy and the
just I'm like giving you honestly sensational material and just lacks any serious content.
He's not very fond of theological thinking. He came, I had Brady Goodwin, who was, you know, the
rapper, the Christian rapper who was on and like he is not a fan of Christians who are very deep
into theology. God forbid you get really sucked into a theological worldview as a Christian,
you're trying to wrestle with scripture and understand the true meaning and stuff. No,
no, no, no, no, no, just just he almost seems more of the guy who goes off his feels. And that seems
to be perceived throughout his videos. It's like, yeah, who cares about those? Let's not die on
these hills. But then, okay, the Trinity isn't true. What about a Christian who doesn't think
the Trinity is the case? Is this guy still good in your book? Because, you know, they burn people
alive for not believing this stuff in the past. I understand we'd be on the same page and saying
that's wicked and evil and totally wrong. My humanist worldview would help me to come to that
conclusion. However, we're looking at it going, this doctrine is very important in the whole scheme
of Christianity. Do we just push it aside since we're not that theological minded? Should we just,
you know, ask Christians like, come on, guys, we all believe in Christ, right? I mean,
you think he was just a man and that his father was only God. And I think he was God in the flesh,
one with the Father and the Holy Spirit. It's not that big of a deal. Is it soteriologically
related? If you don't believe this, will you go to hell? These are questions Christians have been
saying for a long time. Yes, you will. What's the answer? Well, unless you study to know your stuff
really, really well, then, you know, maybe you should do that. If you're really a serious Christian,
I don't know. Instead of just going with the emotions. But, Neil, should I play something here,
man? Should we give people some of the... Something to react to. All right. We're going to do some
reacting. We're going to have fun. If you have any videos that you feel like doing, I don't want to
just pick on Ruslan because I do want to come on his channel at some point. I brought one from
inspiring philosophy that him and I had a discussion on Twitter about how to bring it to you and get
your thoughts on it. Okay. All right. And this would be fresh because I have not heard this. But
I do hope that down the road I get the opportunity to come meet Ruslan and give him my two cents
in person and he can give me his and we can have a friendly conversation. I want to say this before
we critique any further. Ideas. People. I get along with everybody. Pretty much everybody.
There are some people who don't get along with me or may not like me. That's not me. I imagine in
the real world, internet not watching cameras off, we'd probably get along just fine. We would disagree
like on several issues. But we'd probably, I say probably, would get along just fine. I mean,
I've communicated via text. We've talked about me going down there, things like that. So,
I want to say that up front. The ideas. I'm trying to be accurate. This is what led me out of
thinking my little bubble was the truth and everyone else was wrong. This is why he even
mentions in his videos Christians. I've been watching some since yesterday with the Sodom
and Gomorrah thing. Today we're going to talk about some other stuff. But the infighting amongst
Christians, there's a reason that that's always been and it's not new. It's been happening since
the start of this thing we call Christianity and the end times dilemma. That's been going on since
this literature was produced. In fact, it may go back to the very mouths of the historical Jesus
as an apocalyptic prophet. So, let's see what he has to say about actually, let me share my screen
and actually play. We're going to go with the end trumpets here because that.
Wow. So, wait, before you play it, what's the deal with this? What's the what's going on here?
What does he mean by? Well, should we just play it then first? So, look, in times trumpet heard
by millions finally caught on camera. That's a big question mark. So, so far off the bat,
my mind's thinking, you're saying that millions of people have heard trumpets and not one news
article. It's not live on CNN right now. No one's talking about it, but you are going to tell me
this information like right off the bat. I'm like, what's good? You serious right now? Is this like,
is this for real? Is this satire? Dude, Ruslan is in the chat. Ruslan, thank you for joining in here,
man. I look at dude, we've text on the phone, right? But I have to confess, right? I do think
that this video right here is grabbing the heart strings. Let me give you my perception before I
hit play. He said in his defense, he said, I call it not this all the time. Well, so then let's play
it. Let's play. Okay. So, okay. Okay. Maybe I'm misinterpreting you and this is why we gotta meet
in person. I definitely can't wait to come down there and do that. So, I felt let me give you my
perception of watching the video and I am subscribed. So, you know, there's no animosity here. I
literally, you know, you get paid through the advertisements like me. Same thing. This video
felt like you weren't taking a stand like it was, but you gave enough of the feels in it that people
like me who were serious about trying to figure out and believe the end times was any moment now and
had nightmares about the second coming from lightning bolts to fire filling up the sky and
stuff. This stuff really psychologically had chains on my mind. And when I was, you know,
a fundamentalist several years over a decade ago, lots of Christians watch your material and this
is going to give them the hopes or the thoughts or even the fear. My wife used to have dreams about
me being raptured because I was the most devout serious one in the family and she thought,
you know, am I going to be left behind? She just wasn't naturally like in, right? And this stuff
right here casts a lot of fear in a lot of people's minds. So, I hope I can play this here and nothing
happens. Here we go. There's been reports that millions of people around the world are hearing
trumpet like noises from the sky. This leads many end times enthusiasts to question if these are
signs of the time that Jesus's return may be imminent as in he could. It does. Yes. I'm pausing it
just to say your editing is phenomenal. Send me the editor that you're using.
But on some real stuff, right here out the bat, you're going to get noises. He plays noises and
stuff. Do you want me to keep going? Keep going, yeah. All right. Come back at any moment. The UFO
enthusiasts are saying this is actually pointing to the validity that UFOs are here and are visiting
us in a personal way. And there's a third option that's much more darker. But first, let's look at
some of these clips. Think it back. I don't know if the third option gets discussed in the actual
video. But demons maybe? We'll see. I guess you're right. Yeah. I figured it might be or it's just
the darker option is the book of Revelation and saying that the apocalypse is among us. All right.
And check out this one that some hikers caught while on a trail in Alberta, Canada.
And this next one is out of film. What do you think it's so far?
Well, when I see a video, I don't know what to think. I don't know. I don't know who the person
is just making the video. Let's just say these are real. That's pretty interesting. What kind of
phenomenon causes that? I don't know. But my mind is almost like, whose video is this? What's
going on? Is there editing? I don't know. I'm just being honest. But if it was real, I would say,
wow, that's interesting. What kind of phenomenon causes a noise like that to happen?
That was my thoughts. Imagine it was no trumpet, no guy on a hill or the neighborhood
when I was in Kuwait. I woke up early in the morning and they were doing their Muslim prayer.
Over the intercom, like the whole city, it goes through the walls. You're going to hear it. And
I woke up like, what's happening? And it's just the guy down in the hotel area was like, oh,
this is normal. Every day we have morning prayer. And I'm like, whoo. But I'm curious to know if
natural phenomena, if there's an explanation for why a noise might be like that, are there natural
reasons to hype it and connect it to revelation, which I want to get into the book and explain why
and even Michael Jones, right? He interviewed Bart Ehrman on this. Michael Jones, I got to use a
Christian when I'm trying to explain to Christians, because you can't trust me. You can't take my word.
I'm not a Christian anymore. So anything I say on these topics just goes in one ear and out the
other or is ignored. But even Michael Jones thinks, hey, this book is talking about stuff
back in the first century, second century, like this is not a book for us today. And I know a
lot of Christians won't accept that. They kind of want the end to be a thing that's coming.
Well, here's the here's the here's the sad reality about that. Christians have been saying this
since the first century. Yeah, we have doc and then we and then it just keeps second century early
church, you know, once we get into the third century for Irenaeus, Julius Africanus, all these
different popes, Pope Sylvester on the year 1000. So every every century, there's like at least 10 big,
big theologian names that are going to say, we have 10 years left, we have five years left,
we have 30, it's always right about to happen. There's never nobody comes along and says,
all right, I'm thinking nobody in like the year 500, for example, I'm just going to make this
type of the nope, you don't see any text of some church file from the year 200 going. I think the
year 2012 is going to be the end. No, they're always like, 10 more years, five more years, according
to Revelation, it's coming, he's coming right now. So like they they've been waiting for the end,
it's always tomorrow. And by the way, you always hear this, you see this on social media with
Christians, they'll be like, you know, but that with everything that's going on politics, it's
revelations lining up perfectly with everything that's happening today. Well, the same people were
saying the same thing in any century, because you can find events that are happening in any century,
and then you can say, that sounds a little bit like Revelation 12. That sounds a lot like Revelation
50. You can just map things on to whatever time period you're in. And I guarantee you in the year
3000, there'll be some Christians living around in that time, not a lot, but there will be some
who will say, any day now, any day now, you see this politician, he's got to be working for Satan,
that's got to be because of Revelation near 666. It's just going to keep happening.
Yeah, numerology, vagueness, ambiguity, interpretive, you know, texts that have like
this weird, you can almost make it, like you say, fit anything. In fact, some scholars think the
reason it was written this way is to kind of leave open the room of possibility. They,
Jews have had centuries, centuries at kind of, it's now, it's going to happen in our generation.
And in fact, Jesus is not the first guy on the block to had kind of had the doomsday tick time
of like, this is going to happen soon, this generation will not pass away. And of course,
there are several interpretations Christians have come up with over time to try and get out of this
pickle. But the idea of the Dead Sea Scroll community, the kumran sect, they had in the
Habakkuk Peshir, literally used kind of the den Yelik timetable, saying, hey, it's going to happen
in our generation, the teacher of righteousness. He literally dies. And they still have some like,
he's going to come back. It seems that he's going to come back. I cannot remember exactly the details
of that Habakkuk Peshir and the idea of the teacher of righteousness here. But they had a
doomsday expectation and it didn't happen. And of course, here's Jesus. And as like,
almost every scholar, I think that I've had on from Steve Mason, John Dominic Cross, and
even Christian academics like Ian Mills and others said, they expected it, but it didn't happen.
It's like, hmm, yeah. Do you want to see some of these failed end times, or do you want to wait
for, do you play some of the clip? Well, I could continue the clip or we could, I felt like we
could keep going. But I guess there are moments to give. Here's my bone to pick with what Ruslan
was saying. And I hope he's still in the chat. Everyone, you can disagree with him. All I ask
is that we're being respectful in the sense that don't be derogatory, do not be, you can
disagree, you can debate, you can go back and forth, but I do not want us to be treating people
derogatory. Please don't be nasty or call me. I got to just put something I just want to share
for two seconds real quick on the bottom. Okay. So just to just to give you what an idea of what
I'm talking about, like, already in the first century, there's like you mentioned this scene
sect, you know, talking about the end of the time, end of days. But like, these aren't just
random people on Twitter, for example, talking about end times. These are the church
history. This is the most, these are the most like educated minds in the church. Julius
Africanus, Hippolytus, Irenaeus, Gregory of Tours, these people all had these end dates
mapped out using the and you actually read these stuff, they'll tell you where they got it from
the Bible. Some sort of numer, like you mentioned numer, Pope Sylvester in the year 1000.
He's like, this is it. 1000 year reign is over. Jesus is coming back.
Revelation even says after 1000 years, Satan's going to come back up. Sure. Everybody thought
this was the real deal. And sure enough, it didn't happen. And look, since then, it's been
all these failed end dates, all these failed end dates. Here we are. 2000 years have gone by.
People are still saying any day now, any day now, and they'll continue to do that for the next
1000 years. So right, and it will continue until either apocalypticism until climate change kills
as well. I almost feel like that still isn't it because cognitive dissonance kicks in and people
keep retiming, redating, finding ways to keep. There's something really deeply psychological
about apocalypticism or eschatology really, because there's a difference between apocalypticism and
eschatology, even though they overlap in some cases. And because we live in a universe that's
not certain, like we don't, there is no like certainty of the future. No one knows like
anything can happen. Black hole can show up. Like we we do have a weird that that has something
to do with why people are like that. The uncertainty of the future is kind of crazy. If you think
about it, I think Jonathan Z Smith has some really deep insights about why people came up with
eschatological takes of the end, hoping that God would come in. But it's usually the person who's
subordinate, the ideology of the people that are subordinate under the pressures of a regime and
empire, something like that that has them in a bad situation. You almost it's like your weakness
becomes your strength. Okay, keep hurting me like martyrology, the idea of like going through
suffering actually is going to be a reward. It's going to be turned against the enemies at some
point. So this is something that even Christopher Hitchens, I wanted to play that clip where he
was debating Frank Turrick, and he brings up the most devout believers who are basing their stuff
off of the scriptures, and how it's a death cult kind of mentality, like they are anticipating and
hoping that the enemies of God and the enemies of his people will be annihilated in the end.
Maybe people convert, maybe people will change, but if not, bring heaven with its sword and fire,
and you know, the whole nine like take out the enemy mentality. You remember how that power
that you felt when you were saved and everyone else wasn't. I remember how that was like walking
around like I was one of the chosen elect of God. You know, my humble self that just came out of
prison for being addicted to drugs for 10 years and went to prison and found, look at me, I was
chosen amongst all these proud people with their good jobs and families and they're going to college
and they're all proud in those things and those are the earthly things and I'm chosen. I am the
only begotten son who is now returning home for the first like, you know, that gives you power.
Right. There's power in that. It feels good. I remember that shit, dude. I'll never forget it.
Power in kind of, like I said, if you, I've seen, I've heard it explained where women who've been
captured by men, we've caught like people trying to escape homes and they finally get out after a
decade of being trapped in some guy's basement, making babies for the guy. I mean, literally,
we've heard the craziest stories. They're completely helpless. They're in a helpless state of mind.
They have to internalize some way to cope. That is where that spawn of eschatology and
apocalyptic mindset comes from is what a lot of these scholars are saying. So don't worry,
asshole, you're going to get what's coming to you. That kind of, you know, situation where
God's going to come in and rescue me. I understand it sucks for me now because the brain can't
make sense of what's happening. You know, it cannot just, it's not that easy. And so,
martyrology, we see it with the Maccabees, the Jews and the situation that they were in,
they kind of turned it into a weapon of my suffering is actually my good. And this is
even with, even on the Greek side, where you had like Socrates and Aristotle,
both are at odds with the religious leaders of their time. Socrates obviously goes on trial
and drinks the hemlock. Aristotle has to flee Athens and commit suicide. And those are the,
those are the masters of Athens at odds with the Ellusinian priests. So, and they're,
they're going against the grain of their time getting charged with importing false gods and
atheism and stuff. But like, so that, but like those people are become legends and people look
back and it's always like this idea of the truth is always at odds with the world. I'd like the
good, all the, all the greats or all martyrs, like they are all going against the evil wicked
kings and tyrants of their times. There's that, it's like a thing, you know what I mean? It's
part of the culture. Real quick, Ruslan in the chat said that toward the end, and I do remember
this, am I sharing? Yeah, I'm sharing. Let's see, I'm not going to play this whole thing, right?
Right here, he plays more noises. These noises get people like, I know some guys that have wrote
me about how they're terrified. What if I'm wrong? Like no matter what right now, they're trapped in
this psychological thing of thinking, but what if they're right about this? What if Jesus really
rose from the dead and therefore I'm going to hell if I don't believe that kind of thing?
They probably couldn't watch something like this because they're already terrified as it is.
And so they're seeing counselors. Here's the guy casting out demons from a person.
You can't get rid of me and things like that. More noises in Israel or Jerusalem.
Trumpets, fires, and some of this stuff reading from Revelation, when you're reading it, notice
it's contemporary stuff on this ancient text. And so people are interpreting this. This was my
critique. People are interpreting this as if this is the path that's going. But Ruslan said toward
the end, and I do recall him saying like, Hey, there's fanatics. Let's go over here.
My hypothesis is people who are into this sort of. You hear that, right? Yeah.
And I don't know. So the people who are into this stuff, he is being critical, right? Of this.
As people who are into this sort of stuff are probably Jesus curious. I don't know if they're
fully saved. That's cool. And I don't know. And I would bet money that they're not in a local
church with a pastor in any type of accountability and any type of community that disciples them.
Definitely. I would put money on it. 100%. The first people I ran into.
Oh, go ahead. It's more of like a QAnon thing. People just, you know, reading the Bible on
their own. They're like, they might have some weird Gnostic shit going on. Like, you know,
they're a little bit of a heretic. You know, those people I'm talking about.
I agree with him on what he just said. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I don't
think he's saying everybody who thinks the end is near, but I think that the people who really
latch on to this stuff. Look, I got to admit and agree with him on this. You don't even have to be
a Christian. I bet you just socially, like in America, people have a doomsday mentality.
You don't even have to be a Christian. You're going to walk up to somebody. Somebody thinks this
and that connects to some conspiracy dot that connects to the book of Revelation.
And they don't even believe, but they have this eschatology. I imagine these are the people
that he's specifically talking about. I imagine because this is a social phenomenon. Yeah. At
the end of the day, though, how many Christians do we know and have heard about and today are still
actually thinking. And they're like active Christians who do go to a church who are part
of a community of believers that teach this stuff. How many do you think? I mean, there's a lot,
right? Yeah. It's pretty, pretty prevalent. But let's continue what he's saying here.
See, like this was a Brazilian dude in my old complex and he'd walk around with his super
old dog, super sweet guy. And he's like, I'm Christian. He's like, oh, man, like I love Jesus.
Like, do you know the church not being in the church? Bang, bang. So because they got to keep
their jujitsu gym open, but I'm just like, ah, man, that's brutal. I was like, oh, that's crazy.
What church do you go to? He's like, church isn't for me, but the church is right here. The bang,
bang, you know, I do all my own study. So I think this is a stream. I'm catching a video. I don't
know where I'm missing the streams to the larger plot of this entire discussion. I get what they're
saying from that perspective, because I remember when I was attending my church twice a week,
I had the key. I was the first one there. There was this mentality when you meet
Christians that are not going to church. You almost had them. They almost felt like they
were a little bit like wild cards. They were like, they had, they were like coming up with things on
their own, very independent of what like an organized, it doesn't matter what church you're in,
like whatever, like if you're Calvinists or, you know, you're evangelical or whatever,
Catholic, they all have their own organization and how things are done. And it's like,
but when you're not going to, so you're not part of a church, you just kind of just believe it.
You're just, you're like Trump's the Messiah. Trump's the next, like you could just do whatever
you, because you have your own, your own, your own beliefs. You just plug and play, you know.
There's a lot of that. I don't know. The scientific community saw my video yesterday,
where I had Professor Robert Cargill, who's an archaeologist, come on to talk about what was
in Sodom and Gomorrah story. But that video, I got to give him, once I assess what he's
meaning here at the end of this particular video on the second coming, I'm still left wondering,
okay, maybe some of that sensation on even Ruslan saying, hey, some of this may not be the case.
What is the case? And maybe I'm missing the stream where he answers this question as a
Christian. What is the condition? You could call in just now if you wanted to.
Do what? But I don't know if you have the setup for that.
I could. Yeah, absolutely. Hold on. Let me send you the link. Hold on. Let me send you the link.
I'll text it to you, because I have your number. And that way, you can pop in here and explain
yourself. Wait, ladies and gentlemen, give me a second here and let me figure out how to
send this link. I'll comment on that while you're looking that up.
Yeah. It is interesting to how, depending on which
set of denomination you in, how much they take the end times seriously.
Like Catholics probably aren't as much like talking about the end as near, whereas evangelicals,
Baptists are more focused on the end is coming tomorrow. Like, we're not even going to be here
for the next election type stuff. I've heard my pastor say it before. So it also does depend
on that too, even from the organized perspective. You have the type of Christians that are on the
corner with their signs, and they're preaching, they're evangelizing, and then you have the
Orthodox and Catholic types who are more about the rituals of going to church and having the
community aspect of it, rather than the preaching the word aspect of it. And I know there's a lot
of arguments that Protestants use for that being, you know, it's all about preaching the word. It's
all about going out there and getting people saved, getting, you know, sending people to heaven.
Depends on which who, right? Most, I would say, have some form of that, trying to save the world.
And what was the point initially for doing that? What was Paul's goal? And if you're seeing Paul
as a late Second Temple Jew within his Judaism, some, Paula Fredrickson would probably say,
Paul is trying to ensure that that end, that apocalyptic, eschatological view of the end would
come by looking at scriptures that he saw were promising of the nations would come in,
that, you know, Mount Zion, God, the whole nine would be ruling the earth, and that the nations
would come in, the Goyim, and his goal is like, let me go to the nations. Let me get the nations,
people from every tribe, Kendrick, the whole nine, and get them to come in and join the movement,
to be in Christ. He had that particular view, depending on the scholar you talk to.
Right. Because it's not always so simple. Some say he's doing something radically different
that is not within Judaism. There's that approach that he's duking it out with these
Stoics and Epicureans of the day going Athens, trying to, you know, trying to bring philosophy
and trying to show that his way is the superior middle Platonist way, if you want to call it that.
You know, he probably wouldn't say that, he never does say that, and then he was pistols,
but like, we know what the world was at that time, what was the leading philosophers of the day,
and pretty much it was middle Platonism, Stoicism, Epicureans, and the Christians are
responding to that. You can see how the same ideals are sort of woven in, the philosophy
behind Christianity. Right, right, right. Yeah, without a doubt, many academics have said he's
a middle Platonist, or he's, he's a Stoic, depending on. Or even, what do you call them,
the cynics. There's some cynicism happening, like Jesus has some cynic. Yeah, like going day to day,
not worrying about anything, just, yeah, it's in front of you. Like the wedding, the wedding at
Canada, where he's like, what is this concern me woman, like that sounds like something Diogenes is
a synoptic. He's like, what do you think, I'll give you an example, Diogenes of synoptic, they're
like, what do you want us to do after you die, master? What should we do? What kind of burial do
you want? And he said, you know what, this is what I want you to do. I want you to tie a sword to my
hand, and throw me into the water so I can fight the fishes. And they're, he goes, they're all
like, huh, how are you going to fight the fishes if you're dead? Right? Exactly. He goes exactly,
why do I care about my, what happens if I die? I'm like, I'm like, that Jesus had that cynicism
attitude as well, a lot in a lot of ways. Ruslan, what is up, man? What's up guys? Your audio is
coming in kind of. Is it messed up? Your audio is, it's a little bit like a little bit. Okay,
I'm a call from my, I'm a call from my studio. Okay, cool, cool, cool. Awesome, man,
makes me feel good that he's coming in to talk with us. There's so many things, there's so many
things that I look forward to talking to him about. I think, like I said, outside of our ideas on this,
we'd probably get along perfectly fine. We just disagree on this stuff, right? But you're bringing
up an interesting thing that I don't think is taught in church, that is taught about the New
Testament scriptures, seeing Jesus as a new Socrates and Luke, understanding how these authors are
imitating or even making Jesus the new, better figure and the genre of the material. Like,
people have this notion they need to believe this stuff literally happened. Instead of seeing it as
lessons, moral teachings, myths, like a myth has become a weapon, right, against fundamentalism,
because they're talking about it literally being true. And it's become a myth by definition to them
is just false. So there's like, it's either black or white in that kind of idea, rather than seeing
it as a lesson or something that you can glean from, you can learn from the ancient literature,
Homer's, Iliad, Odyssey, you name it. That's why I was trying to, in one of my videos recently,
I was pointing out that I think, like, Pirro in skeptic school, because he ends up moving down
to Alexandria right around the time the Septuages can put together. I think there's a big influence
from the skeptics on religion, right? Like, it's not just skeptics doubting the validity of the gods
or of like, should we, should we really watch birds? This is what August and Rome did, they watched
birds fly, and that would tell them a prophecy or something. And there's like, skeptics in the
second and third century BCE, they're like, this is really, come on, like, we really got to do a,
we got to cut the entrails of an animal, the intestines, and that's going to tell us that
we're going to win the war. Is that real? And so I think that type of mentality influences Judeo
Christianity a lot, because like, look at Elijah, when he's fighting against the prophets of Baal,
he's like, they're cutting their wrists or whatever they're doing, I forgot they're,
I haven't read in a while, they're like, cut their wrists. They're doing all this divination
shit. And he goes, that ain't going to work. He said, I just worshiped the one God and he
signs down fire from heaven. Like, it's like a skeptic approach to the pagan religions of,
of these divination arts, dark arts, stuff like that. You know what I mean?
Yeah, I know that Lucian, I bet. No, you're fine. Lucian, the, the poet, second century
critic also of Christianity and other beliefs, he makes these little jabs like, why are you
going to the graves? Because it was custom. Interesting book, if you want to check it out,
it's called, it's about afterlife in like antiquity, Greek Roman, it goes into the
hero cults, the whole nine from the Greek world into the Roman and why people would bring food or
drink to the funerals, to the, to the tombs, to feed their loved ones. Lucian mocked this.
Right. He mocked it because he's like, so he pretends like there's conversation happening
between the ghost of the person. So, uh, how are you eating? Uh, you don't have a stomach,
you know, like, like doing all sorts of funny things in the ancient world. Okay, here he is.
All right. Hey guys. Hey, thank you. Look, I want to say thanks for coming in
and, and hanging out with us. I promise we're friendly even. Oh man. Listen, listen, Derek,
this is what I will say to you. I will say that you are by far the most gracious and gentle critiquer
of my content, more so than, uh, a lot of Christian channels. Really? Who knows to you
for, uh, for being reasonable and being fair. I did not watch yesterday's video. So I don't know
what it's fair. Trust me. It's fair. I'm not being derogatory at all. I am taking jabs at
understanding what I think is really going on, but you would do the same back to me. And I think
that's fair. And I'm looking forward to having you on the channel at some point. We'll coordinate
that. I just had Tim from the new evangelicals on, by the way, uh, we're, we did a four and a half
hour stream. I don't know if you know who that is. Um, yeah, he's like progressive Christianity,
though he does the quote unquote liberal Christians, right? Sure. Okay. So real quick,
real quick. I don't have a lot of time cause Zach just came. Uh, my, uh, editors are very grateful
for the praise that you gave them. So just, just, okay. So first of all, I lean towards a post
millennial position. I'm not sure if you know what that is. My Jones, uh, from inspiring philosophy
holds that position, right? So meaning that we view, I lean this way, I don't know, but we,
we view a lot of revelation as already happened. Right. So you're kind of a partial preterist,
correct? Partial preterist. That was exactly where I was at. That was where I was at. Yeah,
exactly. And so having said that, what happened was that topic randomly came up in one of our
live stream, just like you guys are in a live stream. So what do you think about all the
trumpet prophecy? So everything after six minutes is me and Zach ranting about people who are into
this sort of stuff, usually aren't in a good place with a local church, usually don't aren't
anchored, usually are obsessed. It's hurting other parts of their life. So that's, this is
where we actually all agree on it. I gotta say the first six minutes threw me off because I'm
going home. So this is what we did. So this is what we did. So we had this whole, like just,
just kind of railing into like all this, this sort of stuff, right? Yeah. And then we come in the
next day and Zach is like, dude, let's sauce this up. Like people are interested into the end time
stuff. And let's lean into that with the hope that we give them that last three minutes of
basically telling them like, Hey, don't obsess over this stuff. Get into a local church, get around
some healthy people. This is not the way to go. If you, if you're actually listening there, we,
we talk about, I'm one of the only Christian creators online that talked about getting vaccinated,
for example, right? Like, because I didn't think it was a mark of the beast. So we actually roast
this sort of stuff all the time, the Jonathan cons, that whole stuff. So I, I fall in a very
specific camp of where I view eschatology, though, if I'm smart, if I'm a good YouTuber, I understand
that people are, people are talking about this. Let's lean into the tension, but ultimately try to
drive them back to a healthy view. We ultimately don't know as Christians, we ultimately don't know.
This is my position. And I've had Mike Jones on. I've had all kinds of people post millennial
partial prejudice on talk about this sort of stuff. And I've publicly disagreed with people
that sensationalize this stuff. But when, when it's an eight minute video, we're intentionally
absolutely trying to get as many people in, get them in the video with the hope of driving them.
Like I said at the beginning, I can't envy the model. You have
If you can join them, right? Let me ask you this, is your, and you, you're pointing to the fall,
the temple, is that with the text? Yes. That's what I think. Because I think biblically,
that's what's good. Cause we know there's no really debate on who the 666 is Nero.
Sure. We're already out. We're already leveraged in there is, but that's pretty much what most
of the, some people disagree, but then you look at the 616 and the Latin, it still matches up
with Nero in that language. So you're like, what's the odds of two different people matching up in
the same text? Anyways, once we get there, we're like, okay, now we're already anchored in a time
period. We're in the time zero, first century, 66 is when Nero went to war against Jerusalem,
temple calls and seven. So I think, I think biblically, it's accurate to say that.
Yeah. And that's exactly what I would lean is like, that a lot of the post apocalyptic stuff that we
see is actually Jesus pointing people to the destruction of the temple. That's why I lean.
I don't know. And another thing I just, I just want to correct this, Derek, it's not that I'm
against people who think deep theologically. I just am not a fundamentalist. I've never been a
fundamentalist. I come from the neo-evangelical stream of Protestantism. So think Billy Graham,
think Greg Lori, that world and not the Jerry Falwell, Bob Jones, which is where Brady comes
from. Brady comes from a very fundamentalist, literal sixth day of creation. The Bible is
the literal Word of God. I believe Jesus is the Word of God. I believe the Bible is also the Word
of God, but in the sense that it's the inspired and errant texts. I don't view it as all literal.
I don't view all of it as a scientific textbook. And so this is where I get a lot of pushback
as well. Cause I don't view, I don't hold to a literal six days of creation, for example. So
that's the one I pushed back against Brady. It's because I often see the pattern of radical,
hardcore fundamentalists who deconvert cause they were fundamentalists. They didn't hold a
neo-evangelical historic, like you said, Catholics aren't obsessing over this stuff. Eastern Orthodox,
Ethiopian Orthodox, they don't obsess over this sort of stuff because it's a more robust, in my
opinion, a more robust view of the faith. Then if you go back to seeing the Puritans and the post
millennials in that world, Charles Spurge and the CS Lewises, the JR tokens, that's kind of the stream
that I'm coming from. Not this, but I am going to be shrewd and lean into some of the sensational
stuff. Absolutely. Because with the hope that we get people into the, that's right. That's right.
We were just saying this at the beginning. So we're on the same page. I have to title stuff,
absolutely. Bro, this is a good stream. You titled this well. You made a great thumb line.
I'm not taking offense to it. I think there's a, you got me here. People are sending it to me.
So you get it. I get it, right? But I just wanted to clarify that because I think so,
and that's what me and Tim just talked about. Like, hey man, the overlap of fundamentalism
and neo-evangelicalism has done this and it's very confusing, but they're very distinct. Calvary
Chapel and Greg Laurie are not the same as a lot of the stuff that's hardcore Calvinist reform,
hardcore reform fundamentalism. They're just not the same. They're very different. And even though
Calvary Chapel has dropped the ball on some of this stuff as well, Chuck Smith and some of that
stuff, but it's a very different stream. How it engages with culture, science, media, all these
different things. So I just come from a different stream of it. Some people would criticize that
aspect, but anyway, I just wanted to be clear. I didn't want to interrupt your guys' stream, but
no, this isn't, I mean, the stream literally is, you know, we've been bringing up your videos.
Yesterday, I did the Sodom and Gomorrah. You can't interrupt it. You're like the guy on the
thumbnail, but it wasn't, I didn't want to only be focused on you because I told them, hey, bring
any videos because there's others who do this, but I did misunderstand this whole video. I read
and I watched it. Now, I heard at the end some of your criticisms and I thought, well, where does
he stand? Because I didn't, I didn't get the context. You did a stream, I guess, that wasn't
this video on this and that's where I missed it. But I will say, obviously on the Sodom and Gomorrah
one, I do think that that one, like if we played that through, I would disagree with that one.
Yeah, I got to go back and watch it. That was, so that was a video of, so I went to Israel recently
and I went to the city of David and I went to the old city of Jerusalem, which by the way, my
Armenian people still control a quarter of the old city. Shout out to all my Armenians.
And I went and I saw a lot of the archaeology and the proof of Pontius Pilate and all these
sorts of things. There's a lot of archaeology that just support the biblical narrative.
And then that video is me reacting to Pinesuit Aquinas sitting down with someone and Pinesuit
Aquinas is a Catholic YouTuber. I like his stuff. People get mad at me because I'm friendly with
Catholics. So that's what that video was about and just reacting to that and pulling up a couple
articles. But yeah, it's leaning into tension, creating conflict in those sorts of conversations.
But for my vantage point, as someone that just was in Israel a couple months ago,
I do think archaeology testifies to a lot of the stuff in the Bible. I would have to watch the
rest of your video to. Yeah, go watch that because I'm the guy's an archaeologist and I'm sure he
would. Most archaeologists, I imagine who aren't like going out of the way to try and like make
this somehow prove, they would probably be in line with most of what he said. I mean, this region,
geographical region is where there's lots of sulfur already. I mean, it's a natural place
where you would have fire. It's like the way the way I put it yesterday on the stream was,
remember when New Orleans came out, everyone said it was the gays in California that caused
the flooding? Well, in reality, if there's natural phenomena happening in this region,
the explanation is pretty simple. And later in the stream, I mean, we won't have time with you on
here, but I'm going to be showing another story that kind of shows you where I think the genre is,
like what kind of genre we're dealing with with lot. And if, you know, if you're flexible in that
kind of thinking, then you might actually say, Hey, okay, I think that this is not literal, maybe.
That I think these, like I said, these places are being mentioned. Look at Pontius Pilate,
you were right there at the temple wall, I'm sure, right? Well, not the temple wall, but the city wall
right there. The city wall, we were there at the Port City where they were his cat, where his palace
was in the Port City. I forgot where exactly right there on the outside is a real nice little
natural step up. And there's that's where he would have judged. If you take the gospels as this is
exactly what happened, then this would have been the spot where Jesus would have been judged.
We're in agreement. If this is what is accurately there, what I do is I say there's realisms,
what we call verisimilitude, that big word of like people, places and things are found in literature
that is littered with legend or myth and may not fit. This is exactly historically what actually
happened. So we might approach this completely different in terms of our conclusions. But I do
think you're going to find things that match this literature geographically. But you could do that
with Homer, you could do that with the Odyssey or the Iliad or Virgil's Aeneid, you can do it with
literature that we know we're not reading this as literal, but there's lessons to be learned from
this. So I'm not trying to be the atheist that runs around and goes screw the Bible or like tries to,
I really do think there's some lessons we can learn from the ancients. But I also think that
it's being misunderstood. Yeah, I think there's aspects that I believe are literal. There's aspects
and events that I think are literal. And then there's aspects that I think are never intended to be
literal. And if you're familiar with Dr. Sean McDowell, I don't know how much you can guess that
with his stuff, but even they just recently did a stream where I highlighted that when we're reading
the Gospels, the Gospels are having different perspectives on the same thing. And so even those
parables are going to be slightly different. The parable of the talents in Matthew 25 is different
than the parable of the talents in Luke, right? And so the Gospels is I believe accurate and I
believe reliable and I believe trustworthy, but they're never claiming to be the literal word for
words of Jesus as much as they're documenting probably what's been passed down from oral tradition.
That might be a controversial view for fundamentalists, but Dr. Sean McDowell, Frank Turk, most
modern apologists would acknowledge that you're getting different people's perspective. That's
why they all read different and it's not, they're not wrong because one omits a detail and the other
one puts in a detail, right? And you could go and watch James White and Bart Ehrman debate on the
sexual. We could go really deep down a wrap go. But anyway, I just wanted to call in shot with you
guys. I appreciate you being gentle and you guys genuinely are more gentle than most Christian
creators that would critique me. So kudos to you. Appreciate the compliment. I look forward to
when time permits. I tried to run it by the queen and she this year has been just hectic. So maybe,
maybe we figure out a time where I can come down. We can have this kind of conversation,
allow each other to kind of express ourselves and explain what we're at and why. But I think it would,
it would make a great episode of somebody who wants and you can pick my brain and challenge me
and and I hope I can go back and forth with you on that. Yeah, let's do it. I would like that.
All right, gentlemen, thank you so much. I appreciate you guys. I'll let you guys go.
Thanks for coming in, man. All right, peace. All right, bye.
Well, that cleared up some stuff, especially on the eschatology.
Yeah, I mean, it's only fair you have if you were talking about his video, we let him,
you know, voice his own opinion and come in and clarify some stuff, you know. Yeah, I respect his
willingness to go against some of the fundamentalists because that's hard to do when you're a Christian.
So I respect so many of your own attack. When you want to be when you when you're saved, okay,
you want people to know it. You want everyone you like you're trying to make sure you're not
going against like what you know what's supposed to be you know what we're supposed to be doing.
So like for someone to say maybe the sixth day creation isn't literal, that's kind of like a
controversial thing to believe right now. Not maybe not with every denomination,
maybe not with every Christian, but like if you're a lot as you go deep into these churches,
you'll see like you got to believe you're supposed to believe this happened.
Right, right, right. I know some, right. I think Christians are starting to try and get away from
that. More fundamentalists of course aren't. I was a young earth creationist at one point,
and I think he made a comment once saying he and I don't know if he was just saying it off the hip
because he's seen a lot of fundamentalists deconvert and become like me and you. So is it
the fundamentalism that makes us nonbelievers or is it because we can allow so much flexibility to
the material to kind of, well, I don't need this to be literal. This can be this. There can be
contradictions. And this is one of those things where I think the more you study, the more you
realize about this in time stuff, I understand that he's post mill partial preterist. I was that
before I ended up going full on full preterist, but that's a story in itself that their expectation,
even with Jesus, was that it was going to happen soon in the first century. And all of them, I mean,
there were predictions. It wasn't the day or hour. Son of man did not even know the day or hour,
but the season he gave in all of the season was related to the temple, which I think was
X event to written after the destruction of the temple, kind of like we see with Daniel,
the pseudepigrapha placing itself back in the sixth, fifth century that's looking 490 years
into the future of Antiochus epiphanies and it's dealing with what's happened in the second century.
And he would just say, no, no, no, I think Jesus really predicted it. Whether you think it was
written after the temple's fall or not doesn't matter to me. These are really coming back from
the mouth of Jesus. That's what I would imagine he would say. We could get lost into those kind of
things, but that I asked a scholar who is a Christian, but he's far more liberal on his approach.
And I'm not going to mention the name because they actually asked me to take the video down and make
it private so they could get employment at a church at the time. Now they're no longer at the
church. I don't think they're really concerned about it, but I'm not going to put it up unless
they say, hey, put that video back up. And they said Jesus was wrong. I don't know how many Christians,
and I don't even know why someone would be one at that point. What would make you want to be a
Christian if Jesus was wrong about that? Why is one a Christian? Is it just I like the way he lived
his life? Buddha lived a great way of living in his philosophy. Is it because you really
believe he rose from the dead and you will too one day? Now, if that's the case, that's some
literalness that you're expecting and hoping to be true. And if you think Jesus was wrong,
why are we thinking he was right or he actually did this over here? And why isn't it another
explanation better? And that's what I asked off camera to that scholar. I said, look, I'm not
knocking your faith. You chose this is what you want. And I respect that. But if he's wrong on this,
I don't know why anyone would be a Christian no matter if you're fundamentalist or
you're more progressive and liberal in your approach. I don't even it's is that really a
fundamentalist mindset of me to think that if Jesus was wrong about the second coming or his
the Paris, Perusia, Peresia, if he was wrong, wouldn't that make you like no matter who you are,
second guess Christianity's truth of his claims of being rose from the dead the whole nine?
Well, can God be wrong?
Depends on if you think he's God in the flesh. Maybe you're just maybe you just had this cultural
connection to Christianity. And it's you know, and you're just you know, you know what it is.
You know what it is. Like you take it for what it is on a scholarly scholarly approach. But you
you just had that cultural connection to it grew up in or something. I don't know. That's my guess.
I don't know. Yeah. I wanted to play that Sodom and Gamora video for you. And I got to use the
restroom real quick. Is that cool? Sure. All right. Stick around. We're about to play this one
here. And if Ruslan's in the chat, check it out. This is the one that I had serious contentions with.
Neil, you might want to pause and comment on it as you go. Actually, you want to share your screen?
I don't think I have the pause. Can you share your screen into it?
Oh, because I'm going to use the restroom real quick just so you can pause and comment along
the way. I'm going to link in the chat private chat so I can go right to it. I don't know where
to find it. Yeah, I got you. I got you, bro. Now this one, I think is a little more clearer
now that we understand where he's coming from on the on the whole second coming. But this one
right here is specifically we addressed this yesterday and pointed out in this region. This
literally is a natural place where fiery rups often where salt pillars that look like people
are there all the time and they develop naturally things like that. All right, you're up. We're good.
You're good. Go ahead and play in positive. Okay. Community is melting down over the discovery
of Sodom and Gomorrah. This is a crazy story. And what I love most about this is any of you guys
who've ever been interested in going to Israel, when you go, you will discover the amount of
archaeological evidence that confirms different people in the Bible like Conscious Pilot,
different streets that were courts like David's Palace. They didn't think existed and they find
it. So Derek didn't mention this before. Like, if I went to Greece, if I went to, I don't know,
like the Hellespontine region, I would find a lot of locations that are mentioned in Homer's text.
I might even, I might even actually, some scholars think Troy was found. There's a lot of,
there's a city that was found, Bronze Age city that got destroyed right around the time when
the Trojan War was supposed to be happening. And there's a lot of, not even just a few,
there's a lot of scholars that think this is the historical version of Troy. Now,
that doesn't mean that Achilles was literally like, you know, slicing people's heads off and
running in speed of light and doing all types of gods, because, you know, he's like a demigod,
basically. That doesn't mean that's true. But it could, there could be, it could be the case that,
you know, some of the stuff in Homer is based on real places with some real historical stuff
that's being legendized. So that's my first thoughts. Sodom and Gomorrah, me and Derek,
went through there. I think there's like some sulfur there, like it's naturally in the place.
And so my thoughts are that the biblical authors describe that to some sort of event happening.
So this is like, this is obviously, it's not like people are writing this as this,
let me just play the clip and we'll get to it actually. It is beyond fascinating, all of the
amazing archaeological discoveries that just happened within the last 20 years. Okay. And so
this story is much like that because it perplexes scientific community, be like, oh, there's no
way that could have happened. That doesn't make any sense. How could that biblical story be true?
That's just a fantasy. And sure enough, there is now archaeological evidence that Sodom, pause.
All right. So you can see my contention.
I got no worries going with this. I'm interested to hear it before I start commenting.
Well, I'm going to give you one comment though, just that's important because
there is this us versus them kind of tribalistic people who are wanting this to be literally true,
wanting this to have happened. And he expressed that here. That's what I was saying,
the difference may be. The last video, I may have jumped the gun, but then again,
he admitted like I would, right? I mean, I'll have something, I might play it and hype it up,
but you know my position, I'm going to be very skeptical of a lot of these claims. I just try
to have that, you know, extraordinary claims, extraordinary evidence, it needs to match when
the claim is significant. But it isn't ridiculous when you look at Homer, like I keep using other
texts. They have places, real places, Troy, a real action city. That's what I said.
You can say, but did Achilles really with the help of the gods around and Hector,
did they really face off here? And this is where this actually happened. He thought his
brother was in the fight with him, but he was deceived by one of the gods or goddesses.
And they, they, they made him think that he had his brother helping him against Achilles.
Like, so the, my point is, is just because there's places, just because we found Pontius Pilate's
judgment seat. Now I don't want to sound like that hand waving, like this isn't a significant thing.
It's very significant that we find people in history, that we find places. But to make the
leap, and I see this with Christian apologists on acts, well, there was this actual guy who ruled
for three years in this particular place, and he was actually titled this and we have external
evidence to prove it or archaeological finds. What that does is it tells you a lot about the
author and it tells you a lot about their knowledge or the sources they might be using in order to
gather that information. But therefore, handkerchiefs are raising the dead or people are walking on
water or guys are floating up into clouds in the heaven. All you have to do is turn the page to
another source, Dionysus of Heliconarsis or Livy or Ovid's Metamorphosis or any of this other
literature surrounding, Suetonius, look at the portents of Suetonius. That's a good example.
I mean, I love this one, I always reference this one, but the Deified Augustus birth narrative
looks awfully like that in Matthew. And I was talking to Jeffrey Trick last night,
who's a great academic. I'm having him on soon to deal with the McGrew,
undesigned coincidence arguments. And he's a mathematician. So he is actually one of the very
few guys who was part of a project in New York on Bayesian probability and how to utilize this
properly. He sees flawed, how she's approaching this is flawed. And I'll let him explain it when he
comes in this coming up week, where we're going to interview on that. But the birth narrative
pretty much has portents, just like Jesus has portents, everything down to the Senate wanting
children that year to be killed so that they weren't raised up in case the prophecy were true
about this child. And who do you know was Caesar Augustus, just like you had Jesus,
you have Caesar Augustus, Herod's trying to kill the newborn infants. Well, we have the Senate
trying to kill the newborn infants. And it goes on and on and on. So is it true? Is this true?
Literally happen? Is this birth narrative not in a long line of legendary, inventive, creative
things about authors that do this about men that they thought were amazing? And therefore,
they wrote these legendary accounts about them? This is what I think it does. So places do not
equal divine. If someone wrote about the floods down in New Orleans, and then someone in some
texts said it was because people in same sex relationships in California caused this region,
which is not California, kind of funny how that God's judgment didn't strike there,
struck over here in New Orleans. That's why New Orleans got flooded when that hurricane came
and there were floodwaters and all that. And it's like a natural phenomenon occurred. And in a place
where natural phenomenons like that happened from time to time, I would say even more prevalent in
the Dead Sea for what you would expect this narrative to say about the fires that came and
such. And that was explained in our live stream. But it gets even juicier, Neil. This whole Sodom
and Gomorrah thing gets juicier because I want to share something that I think is important.
And this tradition of Ovid's metamorphosis, which is a Greek, you know, you're dealing with Roman.
Ovid's Latin. I'm sorry, Roman, but it's actually sourcing from Homer. So
here, I'm going to share my screen. It's retelling. It's retelling all the Greek
legends into Latin. That's what Ovid is doing. This text, Filamon and Bacchus in Ovid's metamorphosis.
So here he says, where did Ovid find the Filamon Bacchus tell? It first appears in the metamorphosis
and no other classical author tells the story. A comment by E.J. Kinney can provide a starting
point for a discussion of its background. Onto a folk tale originating apparently in Asia Minor,
he, Ovid, has grafted a literary motif inherited through Calamacus from Homer, the reception
of a great personage in a humble dwelling. It is possible, though, perhaps not very likely,
that the grafting was the work not of Ovid himself, but of an earlier writer who was Ovid's source for
the story. And then so these are scholars who are talking about it. Well, what the heck does
Filamon and Bacchus have anything to do with this? If you go and check out, you could get the book,
Argonauts of the Desert. I always butchered the name. It's German. It's not his idea,
but it's an interesting parallel between what happens with divine beings that their identities
are hidden. People don't know their divine beings. Oh, by the way, with Mercury and Jupiter
hiding their disguise as mortals and coming and finding a house where
people give them hospitality. You can argue that the Book of Tobit, one of the apocryphal
Old Testament texts, is a lot like this where these two angels, and they don't know who they are.
They don't know they're angels. These two random men show up at their house, and they give them
hospitality, and they feed them, and all of a sudden they find out that it's angels of the Lord.
Yeah, I haven't read this yet, but I'm seeing whoever wrote this has
got more examples than just the two that I just named. Oh, look, it's insane, because what I'm
saying, whether you take a connection genetic or somehow culturally that these stories are floating
around in the Greek world, which would have had its proto-Indo-European language, and look,
this is why I'm a big fan of scholarship. Bruce Loudon's work, he does think there's some type
of genetic connection between Homer's Odyssey and the Near East. He goes into it. It's way
more complicated than I could get to on this stream, and I plan on doing a video. Once I've
digested this content, I plan on explaining that, but look at this story. Look at these
connections between Lot and what's happening with this Philemon and Bacchus, and then he obviously
goes into Orpheus and Eurydice, and I guess this is Sinaris and Myra. There is a swamp not far from
there, once inhabitable land, but now the haunt of diving birds and marsh-loving coots. Jupiter went
there, disguised as a mortal and Mercury, the descendant of Atlas, setting aside his wings,
went with his father, carrying the, what is this, Caduceus? A thousand houses they approached. This
is interesting. Remember what happened with the divine beings who go down into Sodom and Gomorrah?
A thousand houses they approached, looking for a place to rest. A thousand houses were locked and
bolted, but one received them. It was humble. It is true. Roofed with reeds and stems from the marsh,
but Godly Bacchus and the equally aged Philemon had been wedded in that cottage in their younger
years, and there had grown old together. They made light of poverty by acknowledging it and bearing
it without discontent of mind. It was no matter if you asked for owner or servant there. Those two
were the whole household. They gave orders and carried them out equally. So when the gods from
heaven met the humble household gods and stooping down past the low doorway, the old man pulled
out a bench and requested them to rest their limbs. Pause in antiquity. The most important thing you
could do to a stranger was show hospitality. Right. The sin of Sodom and Gomorrah was not
guys trying to hump guys. The sin was inhospitality. You see this later in the Bible as it discusses
the Sodom and Gomorrah story. But the thing people latch on to is these men wanted to have sex
with these angels. You can see people latch on to. You can see how a story like this in the Iron Age
would make sense in a world where people are traveling from town to town. It takes a long time.
You might run out of water. You might be thirsty. You might be hungry. You finally get to this next
village. What do you do? You can see how a story like this would mold into society and
improve society in a way where people are being like, oh, here's a traveler from the road. Let's
let him inside. We can give him some of the vegetables that we have back. Something like that.
It's like an ancient golden rule, too, in a way. There's probably some type of superstition that
you're entertaining a divine being. But the golden rule kind of idea of like, you don't want to be
that guy who's trying to make it, and you're stuck trapped out here in this wilderness,
and nobody's opening the door to give you water. Nobody's allowing you to sit and rest your legs
and sleep for a night. So this was like the moral code. And it was such a moral code that we today
would frown upon the things said in the biblical count. Lot offers his two virgin daughters to
get the crowds to chill. So it's like, okay, well, that's obviously not our modern compass of morality.
We wouldn't offer our two daughters to chill the people on the outside. We have a different
code, I imagine. But the point is in hospitality. So he goes on. So while while over the bench,
Bacchus threw a rough blanket. They had a goose, the guard for their tiny cottage as hosts, they
prepared to sacrifice it for the divine guest. But quick winged, it wore the old people out and
for a long time escaped them at last appearing to take refuge with the gods themselves. Then the
heavenborn ones told them not to kill it. They said, we are gods. And this neighborhood will
receive just punishment for its impiety. But to you, we grant exemption from that evil. Just
leave your house and accompany our steps as we climb that steep mountainside together.
Hobbit metamorphosis. This is some scholars would say it's a theoxym, but others would say it's
kind of the idea of hiding the divine people or hiding their disguise, hiding their identity,
and they're over there entertaining them and don't even know it. The point about this is
Hobbit's writing a fable. It's a story. And it goes on and on. He compares this as well. The
two angels came to Sodom. We know the story of Sodom and Gomorrah. You can go. Here's what
Vajramam says. The stories are again extremely close. Two angels or two gods, two divine beings.
The two were three in both previous stories because remember the three approached Abraham
and he then realizes he's talking to a God and feeds them and such. Then he tells them,
you're going to have a son named Isaac and he chuckles or she chuckles in the tent and
he names Isaac or they name Isaac. The whole story is that they're entertaining three divine
beings. The same is the case in the other story. They come to visit a city in the guise of humans
and a pious man offers them hospitality in Ovid's version. The details of the mill are described.
The angels, gods reveal themselves and explain how due to its inhabitants,
the city will be destroyed, but that the pious couple will be spared and allowed to flee with them.
In Genesis, the inhabitants of Sodom act perversely. They want to know, which is usually a euphemism
for sex, the guest of Lot, meaning to rape them. Here, the descendants of Canaan are accused of
inhospitality. Lot is ready to give them his own virgin daughters. We must keep in mind these
details in Genesis 19 for they appear again in the story of Gebea in Judges 19. I think that's
the one where he puts the prostitute out all night long. I think that's the one where she
ended up getting killed. He ends up cutting her into pieces and since then-
Yeah, that's Judges. What you just said, it's sort of similar where they're from the tribe of
Benjamin, actually. They're not just random people. The tribe of Benjamin, which is odd,
which is what you're wondering, was there some political thing going on at the time when they
wrote this? Anyways, these people from the tribe of Benjamin show up and they're like,
you know, give us their daughter and he's like, oh, instead I'll give you the slave woman that
came with the priest and the priest won't even know. It's okay. Just make sure you bring her back
and tie something. I'm just adding that part in. But anyways, the priest rides all the way home with
her and then somehow they don't even explain how. The next passage is when the priest
discovered what happened to her. What does he do? Oh, are you okay? Oh my, oh my God, what happened
to you? He chops her up into 12 pieces and then mails all the 12 pieces out to all the 12 tribes
of Israel. So, look what Benjamin did. And that's what- Yeah, they blame him.
They bench him in the huge war against Benjamin happens right there.
It's definitely not a pretty picture, obviously. I don't think it's historical
of what actually happened, but- And this goes a lot with the scholars we have on, right? They're
pointing out like this may reflect the ancient Near East, but a lot of this stuff seems to be just
narratives that are being constructed sometimes ad hoc or really post hoc in light of the larger
narratives of the empires that were in control. So, you're going to have
realisms. I guess you're going to see things that are real places, real
activities that would have been understood as practices in the ancient Near East.
This story though that I'm just pointing out and it goes on and on. The list goes on and on
and comparing them. I highly recommend people look at the comparisons between Lot and what's
going on here in Abbot's Metamorphosis. Whether or not there's a genetic connection or not,
it's fable. And the Greek Roman authors are quick to say, hey, this is a story.
This did not happen in the literal sense, but these are stories that we have. These are our
legends, traditions and stuff. You're looking at that genre. They categorize it as a fable.
These are a genre in the ancient world that we know what it is.
We see several other examples of it. We get to the Bible. Now we need to see this as somehow
historical. We need this to be truly what happened. And I know several Christians who are more
progressive, who are being honest and saying, you know what, it looks and I use this analogy a lot.
It gets me in the trouble with apologists. It walks like a duck. It talks like a duck.
It smells like a duck. It looks like a duck. And what I mean by is this one's a duck,
meaning fable or legend or not literally true. It's a fun story. And this one,
when I say you see all of this and then you get here and you go, but this one had to happen or
this one happened, that's what really I guess bothers me because I don't think it's being honest.
Sure. I just don't think it's. Now it's not bothering me to the point where I'm like,
have an enemy off of it. It just, I want to tell you why I think that's dishonest. I want to be
very frank in saying, I don't think you're being true to the literature. I'm being more accurate
with this material than I think you are. That's the point I'm trying to get at.
There's that element of wanting it to be true too.
So, right, right. I remember we brought this up. Paragrinus, the philosopher who was a Christian
second century AD, he goes and he had reached his peak of philosophical. I can't remember
what the technical term is, but he's like, that's it. I'm going to show you how much I've made it.
He goes to kill himself by burning himself on a pyre, commits himself to the flames,
Lucian's walking back. He gets bothered by several people. What happened? I heard Paragrinus,
and Lucian writes, well, I decided to throw a little curveball here and there and say,
hey, when he died out of the flames came a phoenix bird that flew up and ascended to Mount
Olympus and blah, blah, blah. The next day, some old man approached him and said, I saw the bird
that ascended to Mount Olympus from his flames and Lucian writes now, whether this is historical or
whatnot, what really happened. He said, my own lie got believed in one day. Well, you mentioned
Suetonius's life of Augustus when it talks about his death. And he says in the text,
we have multiple eyewitnesses that saw his ghost rise into the sky. So he's trying to make it.
Believable. You know what I mean? There's that people who need to believe this element.
There is. I do think there is a part of, I don't know if everybody fits the same category in
antiquity. Right. I imagine the elites murmured amongst themselves, you know, that's a fable,
like none of us buy that. You get with Vespasian's life where the author, or I think it's
Tacitus or Suetonius says, I have no reason to lie. Like he prefaces the sentence with,
I have no reason to lie. But here's what happened. A man walked to the temple. His name was, I think
he says his name is Basilities. His name was Basilities and he had a lame arm and his Vespasian
reached out and touched him and his arm grew and he was, you know, and he healed him. And like,
but he prefaces it with, I have no reason to lie.
Well, I talked to Jeffrey Tripp and I'm trying, I'm seriously trying, and I mean this, I want to be
fair. And then let's get to some super chats here because I heard there's some funny ones in here
that that you still want to play that video. I think we'd rather play it too, right?
I didn't erupt it, but dude, it boils down to, he thinks that this confirms the biblical account.
And in one way it confirms that the geography in which this narrative, what's constructed,
plays a significant role in the type of story. The book that I talked about yesterday, there with me,
there it is. The city, the cities that built the Bible, Robert Cargill, who's the archaeologist who
talks about this, he gets into Sodom. He gets into several stories all the way down into Jerusalem.
Really interesting book. Shameless plug to my boy, Robert Cargill, who's over Iowa. But the point
is, is the narratives have their geographical significance, whether it be Galilee, whether
it's the Dead Sea, there's a reason, think about this, there's a reason why. You can look at it
two ways. The believer Christian who wants us to be literally true, those pillars of salt that you
and me drove by in Israel when we were there, those are probably humans. It wasn't just lots
wife that might have turned to salt. How many other wives of husbands turned into salt over time?
Therefore, this geography actually proves the truth of this story, or what most people would
say is common sense is, and they would say it's common sense, the scholars who are investigating
this will say it's clear that this story was the imagination of the narrator is being inspired
by the geography of this place and probably the natural phenomenon. They're seeing the same places
and same salt piles that we're seeing right now. Exactly. There might be some local legends
arising in that region about the salt pot pillar being somebody's wife. All of a sudden that gets
put in the text, gets rewritten, repurposed. Exactly. And this happens a lot. This happens
a lot. So, lot. Notice I said lot. But seriously, the whole pillar of salt, there are natural
formations of salt that literally get up to six, six and a half feet tall. And Dr. Cargo goes into
that, points out. The other thing is, is gases. There's, I think he mentioned there's a place
where they actually would scoop up the, what do you call that, that they would waterproof their
boats with? Oh, asphalt. We might call it asphalt, but there's a particular word that they used,
and he said it yesterday in the stream. All of this stuff's just. I think that's what it's called,
because I think that's what the Vespagy or the Josephus is. Pitch. Pitch. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yep. Pitch. Thank you so much for that in the chat. That's exactly what he was saying yesterday,
natural pitch. There's gases coming out of the earth and fire that comes. Can you imagine if
we found pottery that melted in this area where these natural phenomena happen all the time?
It's like the flood scenario I said about New Orleans. Therefore, because floods happened here
in a story said that God sent a flood here, that means that the God actually sent a flood,
or humans are perceiving natural phenomena and putting them into stories.
Right. That's right. Especially a region like Mesopotamia that does flood.
Facts. Egypt. Yeah. Egypt and the Nile. Nile, right. No doubt. No doubt. So,
you can say all the natural phenomena are your God, or you could be consistent, and I think this
is where the consistency comes in. We need to thank the Mesopotamian deities when, you know,
they've done something good, and when things are sent, it was that God, not your God. It was that
God that did it in that case, and then it was your God that did it when it's noted in your book
about your God, if you're going to be a supernaturalist who thinks this stuff's all true. I just think
there's no consistency on, once you open that worldview of miraculous and divine beings interacting
with the human world, this is my problem. Be a supernaturalist. Make sure you give credit to
all of them. You're playing games when you do this stuff and act like it's just yours,
and all the other stuff is not true, and yours looks much like the other stuff. The genre,
the kind of material, the mindset, the archaic morality, the archaic understanding of the world
we live in, and that evolves over time. So, I think I've preached long enough on my position.
Do we even need to play that? It's up to you. It's up to you. I think it's super chat. We've got
19. I think we gave our thoughts on, we know what he's going to say. I hate to say that. I hate to
be like, it's up to you. We don't have to play it. I didn't play it yesterday because he already
watched it, but I do encourage people to watch that and then watch our live. If you're an archaeologist
who is coming at this various cities in antiquity, and the Bible, in some cases,
has that line up, and then in some cases, they don't. I recommend Joshua Bowen's books on some
of this material that he shows because he sifts through a vast amount of scholars, and then I
always analogize it to the bird bringing the worm to the chicks. He's chewing the heavy, hard,
linguistic stuff that academics are writing in their dense books and making a popular-level
version of it. I have to hope that my translation that I find online is correct because Acadian's
there could be 10 different translations that all say 10 different things,
but I look them up. I try to find one. I look to see who translated it. It's from 1950. All right,
let's check it out. Who cares? I'll just go with it, but that's a whole different world.
Dude, shameless plug for Dr. Kip Davis here. 18 lecture course, 4K. You can sit and chew it as
you go at your own pace. MP3, it's in 4K. He's going through visuals, giving you actually teaching
you and taking through the ancient Near East. Anyway, there's a shameless plug. I had to do it.
I guess I should put the... It's in the description. You're not going to find anywhere deeper going
into the Dead Sea Scrolls than this course. Not just Dead Sea, ancient Near East that's leading up
to the material in the Dead Sea and stuff. How does Apocalypsem come on the scene? Who is Yahweh,
Elohim, El in the ancient Near East and how these peoples understood the world? It's a great way to
get immersed and chew on it and understand what's going on from a scholarly perspective.
Super chats here, Neil. Constellation. We know this person, I think.
Great friend of both of us. They said, I've given up talking about religion to people.
I'm shocked how little Christians and half-assed ones don't hardly know anything.
One even denied the chronology that goes back to Adam's creation. I was so disappointed I just
don't bother anymore. What's your take on that? He's set up. He's tapping out. I get what he's
saying. I'm not going to lose sleep over what someone else believes. There's so many people
that believe so many different things that it just doesn't really bother me. I'll engage with
people. I engage with inspiring philosophy on Twitter. We go back and forth and mess with each
other or comments and each other. At the end of the day, I don't hate them or anything. We're
friends. We get along. We just disagree. I might even get a little snappy on them like,
come on, dude. This is delusional. I'll say something like that, but I don't mean nothing
bad by it. He's fine. I get it. In real life, I don't drink, but I could imagine you and him
having a beer. At the end of the day, yeah, I totally disagree on these things. It sucks,
because you can see the chip on our friend's shoulder here. I would encourage trying not
to have walls up against anyone who has beliefs in things. People are going to believe in things.
This is just my little encouragement. As far as the consistency goes, though, on that chronology,
the genealogy going back to Adam, yeah, the Bible paints it that way. This is why you have people
who come in who are trying to realize there's problems between Genesis 1 and 2 and the accounts
of Adam and then the genealogies. I got chewed out. Let me give you an example. I got chewed out.
Probably 50 comments under my Enoch video, because I said Enoch was a descendant of Cain.
However, there's another genealogy, the next page over that says that Enoch was a descendant
of Seth. Well, Derek, which is it? That's because of the documentary hypothesis,
I'm guessing. Well, it's fragmentary. It looks like there's another genealogy happening in the
next one. You're like, why do these names look exactly the same? What's going on?
It's clear. I fact-checked this with Dr. Kipp, Joshua Bowen. They look, yeah, you're not wrong.
It's clear he is and he isn't. Because you just go to one and they're almost identical genealogies,
two different sources. I'm on the side with the scholars here. I couldn't probably spell it out
a little clear and said, look, in one genealogy, he's a descendant of Cain. In the other one,
he's a descendant of Seth. The problem is you get later and in the book of Enoch, one Enoch,
you're going to find that he is a particular descendant of Seth. I think I'd have to fact-check
that. But I'm pretty sure you're right. I just went with the Bible here and went with what one
of these said and I didn't do a good job of expelling that out. Point is, is they're finding
Adam wasn't the first human Homo sapien. So now you have guys like Michael Jones who are accepting
of evolution. They do accept the sciences here and they go, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, now how do we
explain Adam? Because a lot of them still want Adam to be a historical dude. I've heard someone say,
like, evolution played itself out after God's creation. And then, you know, one of these
or two of the, or I guess maybe one of these Homo sapiens just is the Adam, like becomes Adam in
some sort of way. Right. Like God breathed a new one. I just said that one right there. I'm going
to start with this one and that's going to be Adam and then it's going to go from there. He put a
spirit finally into some Homo sapien. But you know what that ends up doing? It gives them another
out now and now they can say, well, there already was humans on this planet that is not from Adam
or something along those lines. And that's why, because there's that problem with, wait, didn't
Cain leave to go find a wife? Where is he going? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And he's afraid. Who's he afraid
of? Is Adam going to send his son to go out? Like, there's questions. That solves that issue.
Well, there's people. Exactly. It's an ancient document, really, with ancient sources that are
compiled here. So I get the frustration because once you nail something down, there's always room
and wiggle. I like what Christopher Hitchens once said. Some of his stuff, you know, he's pretty,
he's pretty intense sometimes, but he does it in a poetic way where he says, I mean, 99
point whatever percent of life on earth has literally been destroyed is dead today.
So the creation of this world and the evolution of life, most of it has died.
And then finally, in just recent history, God decides to interact and intervene and it's pretty
poetic. I understand that there's always a loophole and well, no, he's always been active.
But when you think about life, it's really weird. I mentioned this to my brother because he's all
into the whole extraterrestrial stuff possibly going on. And I said, look, if life is out there
messing with us, there's something to be afraid of because what does it take for you and me to be
alive? Energy, which comes in the source of food. If you look at evolution, life has cannibalized
itself to get to where we are. If we traced life back to its most simplified origins where,
you know, you're finally getting like multi-cell creatures, they're eating each other. They're
consuming each other left and right to survive. And that's the survival of the fittest.
That's what's happening on the lowest levels of life, all the way to the highest levels of life.
We have to eat vegetables and meat to survive. Even something like cereal that comes from grain
and that was once a plant. Everything you eat is a living thing, some sort of living entity.
Right, right. I mean, most of it is, yeah.
Which is what evolution is.
That's the scary part. And then when you get to Genesis, here's the curse. You're going to be
cursed with pain and childbirth. If you take that literal, you mean all primates prior to the
Pneuma being inserted into this one guy and girl. Well, really the guy because the girl comes from
the guy's rib. And that's, I'm not getting lost in that one. But you take this literal. It's like,
come on. It's a etiological myth. Why are we afraid of snakes? I'll tell you the story of the snake
back in the day.
Well, it's even more clear because when we look at like Asop's fables and the character's names
like the person's name is Lazy. And he's in the story, he's acting Lazy, right?
It's clearly the fables about what happens to people who are Lazy. Well, with Adam,
his name has to do with like earth, red. Like Adam means like earthly red. Like he comes from the
earth. He's a ketonian human from the earth. Like you can see the name matches what he is.
I say the same for Eve. Say mother of the living.
Remember Matthew Munger talks about the pun that is in the ancient Mesopotamian narrative
where Eve plays into the rib of the earlier mythos. So there might be a linguistic pun
happening. Let's keep pressing forward because I got a lot here. Seth of the Hala. Hi, guys.
Ruslan in the comments. Good stuff. Thank you for the compliment. And I'm glad Ruslan came on.
So we are going to see some stuff before he came on in SuperJax. Ruslan, it's the sound of Vuzila.
I don't know. You know that name? I don't know what that is. I don't either. But I'll check it out.
I'll have to keep that in mind, right? Thanks, Seth. Constellation Pegasus again says it's hard
to feel sorry for people that actually believe this stuff. But what can you expect after all the
church lies to people when it's all too predictable like this? You know there's a problem.
He's getting, you know, he's had it. He's had it to hear with these apologists. No,
I appreciate the input on this subject because I can see how someone can get frustrated with
some of this stuff where you have certain people that are, you know, they want, if you want something
to be true, even if it's from a skeptical side, we see this with mythos. If I want Jesus to not
exist, he didn't exist. There's not, there's no evidence. And anything you do give me, I'm just
going to write it off as just, that's not as weak. Right? I'd say some, right? Not everybody.
Oh, I'm just saying, it goes both ways. What I'm saying is what I'm saying. It doesn't have
to be atheist. It could be atheist. It could be anybody. When you want something to be true,
it will make, you'll make it make sense. Yeah. And this is the thing. Personally,
I get the frustration of wanting to feel sorry and not feel sorry for people at the same time,
because I was one of these people who devoutly believed this, this stuff. So I have to try to
empathize, no matter if I think something's foolish, but I also relate to the church not
teaching any of this. They, they just, they don't teach you this material. They're not telling you
about the fables. They're not telling you about the myth. They're not telling you
about the clear issues with the material. And if they did a better job, and there are
several Christians that are obviously not fundamentalists, they're more on that progressive side
who are trying to do that damage control and say, look, you guys keep hiding this,
people are going to discover it. And when they do, the bubble's going to pop and they're going to
feel deceived by you, that you're not being honest. You're not being fair. You're not being,
you know, handling this material correctly. So I can relate and Constellations back again,
maybe it's Godzilla ramping downtown Tokyo and the media is covering it up.
Thank you Constellation for the love, the support. Just don't be, don't beat yourself up. Don't get
too upset. Understand not everyone fits every category. There's so much of a bigger world
and it's not black or white. There's a lot of gray in there. The laughing philosopher,
Ruslan, your content matters. Don't just brush it off as entertainment. People believe this stuff
and base life decisions on it. Be responsible. So I can respect that. And I, when I jumped this gun
on this video, I was wrong in not realizing what he was trying to do with it. Because man, it took
six minutes, six minutes of things that I'm thinking he's hyping on. And he was, he came on
a minute, but I thought he was like sitting on that fence of ambiguity, not taking a conclusion
and saying, Hey, this is bogus. This is BS. And I misinterpreted it. The first go around
and watch the video and then I made the video and we started talking about this. However,
I do think I'm drawing proper conclusions pertaining to the Sodom and Gomorrah scenario.
I agree. Lev in the hizzy Pope Sylvester, suffering suckatash, the end is nigh.
That's right. That's right. That's the one. He's the one that really
made a big deal about parent according to some sources. He made a big deal out of the end because
he was, he was reading the Bible. Revelation says Satan will be chained for a thousand years and
after that thousand years is over, he'll be released. And that's when this war is going
to break out between Michael, the angels and whatever. So yeah, according to the Bible,
Pope Sylvester was just being a Christian and doing, you know, giving his thoughts.
They did it every generation, every generation, every century passing. This was going on. And
there were different versions of Christianity that spurned from this never happening and
making realized eschatology, how the Gnostics or what we call Gnostics, the various forms of
these groups that splintered out, they had realized eschatology. I mean, full on realized,
not in T right level, beyond in T right, straight up the resurrection of the dead happened.
These kind of versions, the gospel of Thomas implies that. And so constellation pigments is
again, familiar story as always, like Watchtower were right. And the whole wide world is wrong,
sad to think about this story will continue on.
I guess that's true. I mean, that's
there's a lot of that that's going to keep going, but we're trying to educate people.
Yeah, stop thinking like that.
Yeah.
Personally, I'm like my, like if you look at my content recently, I'm coming at it
differently now, I'm just trying to try to bring the material into a and like an art,
I guess art, it's like art, like, I'm bringing the material in a way where it's like, you know,
entertainment, you can watch it. And I'm not, I'm not like arguing anything. I'm just here's
what the text says. And why I do give my thoughts on things. And I do cite some scholarly stuff.
But like, you know, my approach isn't to like fight for one side or against the other,
that would make sense.
Yeah, you're more neutral in that respect, but you always have been on your channel.
Yeah, you, you've continued to just try to kind of bring these insights and people wherever they
are can just accept it as it is. I do bring a little bit more of a critical job.
Sure.
I want to get people to think, do we like, why would you believe this in the literal sense,
of course? So it does leave the room for people who are like, yeah, well, it's all met metaphors,
all the way down, everything's an allegory, everything's a metaphor. Well, then I should
be allowed to read any and every text that way and glean any and every text that way.
And why is this one on a pedestal in your mind? Why don't you do this with Homer?
Why don't you do this with every writer and antiquity that had these kind of claims in them?
And so I feel like we get pushed away from, I can't believe this literal anymore because it seems
dumb to believe this literally happened, especially when you compare it and not be consistent.
So I think it's allegory. Okay, it's all allegory. I'm willing to swallow that. I mean,
I don't know. I feel like that I want to get people to think about this stuff a little bit more.
Yeah.
Gnostic Zeno, should you try to convert Christians or is it better for them if we don't?
If they don't have a replacement, is it mean-spirited to do so?
I'm not trying to convert anybody to me personally. I'm here to engage with you and discuss it with
you. I don't want to convert you to anything. I know what you mean by that. Like, should we try to...
I get what they're saying. I do. But me personally, I'm not trying to convert.
I'm just trying to engage with you and to discuss it, give my thoughts, maybe point you to things
that I've seen that made me convinced otherwise and try to bring that to you and see what you think
and get your thoughts. And I'm just trying to... I'm trying to be as not biased as possible and
try to convert anyone in any different direction. If that makes sense.
Yeah. I want everyone to burn in hell.
I hope that I'm not. I hope that I'm not. I hope I don't come off as somebody who's not
trying to convert people to anything. I mean, maybe I have...
Well, I don't feel like that. I'm sure you might. There's some people who probably feel like you're
too critical, right? Maybe.
For me, I am interested in getting people to think critically, to ask why they believe in
something and at the very least, whether they believe in something at the end of the day or not.
Get them to understand why people like me don't. Not just hear me out and well,
but do you actually understand? Does it make sense to you? I understand why someone would believe
because I was a believer. I understand that mechanic and that feeling, that subjective
experience of living a life as a believer. I understand that leap of faith of hoping that
one day I will resurrect from the dead as well. But do they understand?
I knew I didn't understand. When I was a Christian, there's no way in hell I would
have understood myself. I always talked about that. If I met myself 12 years, 13 years ago,
today, how would that conversation go? It's a crazy thing to think about, but I'd be probably
like, what the hell happened to you, Derek? How did you do this? What did you do wrong?
Because I couldn't imagine how evil, how wicked of me. What happened to you, Derek?
This would be something in my mind and it would be an interesting video to have me interview me.
Do a funny hypothetical, here I am fundamentalist me, seriously biblical theology, the whole nine.
See if you can load up an old AI version of you or something.
Constellation Pegasus, does this guy believe in a 6,000-year-old earth and man?
I think he said no. Yeah, he said no. He gets pushed back on that, which I don't blame. I don't
doubt at all. I don't doubt that he's getting, he's probably got some craters out there that are,
you know, in the young earth camp that are like, he's worse than atheists because
he believes that, I bet you he gets that. I'm just guessing.
Well, you heard the compliment he gave me. He came on and was like,
you're nicer to me than many Christians are. Exactly. And that, I thank you. I mean, I'm not,
that's, I guess it's thank you because it's like, I don't want that, but I expect that. I already
know that. You can see the history of any religion. It's not just Christianity. I remember the days
when our church would talk about other churches and it was, we, it was, there was more,
there was more animosity towards other Christians that there was against people who just would,
or atheists or, or agnostic didn't believe. Like, there was more like, why are they in the wrong
church? Don't they know better? Right. And that's, that's, that's a real thing that's happening. Like,
you see that for sure. Yeah. It's the difference of small things. I can't remember what they call
it specifically, but that is your biggest enemies are going to be the closest people to you. Yeah.
That's just the way that the cookie crumbles. If, if they resemble you and they're in your turf,
we got a problem. If they aren't in line with the things that you do. So I actually, just to
compliment this idea of being a little bit more flexible as a human and not be so rigorous.
I don't think it's consistent with literature. I'm reading in the Bible as much. I don't think,
in some cases, the fundamentalists, I think are actually representing and portraying what the
text is saying. That's the problem is imitating or trying to model yourself after the text. A lot
of people are trying to make it mean something that it doesn't mean. And you can do that.
Interpretations allow that you can do that. There's that subjective viewer reader
can make things mean something that they don't. I don't think they're being accurate in their
original context, but I would rather the Christian do that than to literally try and say slavery is
good. The Bible says so. Or a chattel slavery happened and God actually condones how to own
people's property. Therefore, we should do that because I have text and not only that Jesus
doesn't condemn it. He actually has parables where he uses slavery in it. Jennifer Glancy goes into
this. So, do we go back to slavery being a thing? What do you do? What do you do?
We're rambling now, huh? I just wanted to make sure the last demonian
super chat, the next one, he didn't have a comment or they didn't have a comment. Oh,
so they did. Here it is popping it up and it was a $10 super chat. I just didn't want to miss it.
Christianity in its first 500 years was divided chaos. It came together by force in the late
Roman era, then was sliced apart again. It is in a state of divided chaos again. What comes next?
Interesting. Obviously, I'm not an expert on church or the church history or anything, but I do
have a little bit of understanding of the first couple of centuries where you have these groups
that are later deemed heretics and even called Gnostics, which they didn't really call themselves
that. They just called themselves Christians. You know, the Basilideans and the
Carpocratians and the Gnossians and the Sathians and the Valtinians. And then you have all these
different schools of Christians all over the place, Marcian's camp, Justin Martyrs over here.
You got all these, they're all kind of, they're all Christians, but they haven't like figured out
what they agree on, what they disagree on. So, there's disagreements happening all the way up
until the 4th century. And then continuing on to the 5th and 6th, and they're still doing councils
and all this stuff. And then, I think even when you have a church, there's still, you still have
different, you know, you still had these different insiders in these churches. And then obviously,
when the Protestant Reformation comes out, really everything gets divided up. But like, I think,
I don't think it's ever was a single camp for Christianity ever.
Was never one and there never will be. You can bank on that. So,
it's an interesting historical question upon her. And then I would want to do some heuristic stuff
and look at other developed religions from their origins on. Look at the Mormons. I love looking
at the Mormons. Joseph Smith and the splintering out from the gate. There's actually a graph
online Mormon churches graph from the start. I don't know if that would be what I would be
looking at. It's like a genealogical graph that tells you from the start, the various churches.
We have Christian sex as well, like Arminianism, this, this, that. I don't see, and I'm probably
not typing in the correct thing, but I love looking at that, the divisions, and it only
keeps splintering even further and more and more sex. And let me just add real quick, there is this
understanding, it's a false understanding. I was one of these people who thought this too,
when I was a Christian, that they only splinter off after the church. It's like, and before the
church, going back to Jesus, it starts getting smaller and smaller. And then like Jesus, Paul,
and then it starts to splinter off. But like, no, it's actually the opposite. It's actually the
Christians that you can find the most separated Mormon and Catholic, okay? They have so many
disagreements, but they have more overlap than some of the earliest Christians did. For example,
if I took the Carpocrations, compared them to the Ebianites. Oh my God, those are two different
worlds. Some of them are putting up Pythagoras and Plato as prophets, where over here it's Isaiah
and Jeremiah. And they're completely different. Some groups think Jesus was just a prophet,
some of them think he's like a son of God. All these different ideas of who Jesus was,
there's way more differences early on than there is now, I think.
That is an interesting point. I mean, right out the gate, and I kind of picture it. Imagine having
12 guys stand around this guy, and you end up with 12 sex after the guy's gone. Like, it doesn't,
I mean, I'm not saying that's what actually happens.
But you're saying, hypothetically, who knows? Like, but all we know is when we look at
when these Christian texts start showing up, they start off all over the place.
Right. There's no unity in the beginning. It starts off all over the place.
We do not have an early enough material, right, from any inception where they're all just on the
same page. We have a story in a book called Acts that tries to paint, that they were all one and
of one mind and shared all things in common. And that I would call an etiological myth,
an origin myth of Christianity. I'm not saying there isn't a kernel of historical memory,
that maybe they had a communist community out the gate or something where they were together
and had one idea and one thing all in common. But this is a story that I think is being written
in the Book of Acts. And there's good reasons to think so. Just I don't see why. Well, there's
people, places and things that are real in the Book of Acts. That means that this is all historically
reliable and true. And this is what they want to sell you. Ichipad. This is Brady Goodwin.
Good to see you, my friend. I was Calvary Chapel for much of my Christian life and not a fundamentalist
as you think, Brady. So Brady's the one right at us. So Ruslan, if you're seeing this and
you've watched this far, Brady said, no, clap back. I was not the fundamentalist you think I was.
I was a devout theological thinking person. But interesting note, historically, Brady,
I was actually in Calvary Chapel and attending that church and part of them
right before I went into Christian college. So it was the pastor at the Calvary Chapel who encouraged
me to go to get into the ministry and I went to college and started taking a serious there.
So thanks to Calvary Chapel for encouraging me to go down the path I did. Digital Hammurabi,
look at these two. They don't get that the earth is flat and only 6,000 years old.
I'll bet they even think the Old Testament endorsed slavery.
I quit. You got us. You got us. Let's quit in the stream. How did he know? We got to put
sackcloth on and put ashes. How did he know? How'd you know? I mean, he probably has serious mind
reading capabilities. Yeah, that's a profit right there. For sure. If you're not worshiping
Digital Hammurabi, you might want to start doing it. Right here, you just saw a miracle.
Like, how did he know this? There's just no way to explain it naturally. This is completely
miraculous and I'm putting my tides in. As soon as I'm off, I'm putting my tides in.
In fact, I'm giving back my tides that he just paid me. You see what I'm saying?
So topic discussed, member for 16 months. The frightening thing is when they not only
want it to be true, they actually try to make it true, forcing the apocalypse.
Dude, give me one second, Neil. We got to do the Christopher Hitchens part.
Yeah, and while you're pulling that up, I'll just say, I think the best analogy would be
puzzles, but it almost sometimes where the puzzle pieces don't necessarily work out the way you
want it to. So you might take the scissors and cut off an edge or you might draw your own puzzle
lines and make it work somehow. Some of the puzzles or pieces are being moved around in a way
where it's not really supposed to fit like that. That's how I see it a lot. A lot of times I see
people and it's like, how do I say this? You're looking for the data. So you start with your
solution. You start with your, this is what I think is true. And then what you do is instead of
going to the experts and seeing what they say and seeing if you're right, you're going out and
you're looking for certain experts that are aligned with what you believe and then you'll cite those
people. And then you sort of look through the data and then write off things that you don't like and
say, that probably is interpolation. This, oh, that's true because that lines up what I want.
So then you start, you're building your data and picking the data that you want
to make you look right. And you see this all the time. I used to do this all the time when I was,
years ago, I did the same thing. So this is a Frank Turrick debate, right? Where Frank Turrick
and Christopher Hitchens are talking about, does God exist? Something to that effect.
And I think this is the part, I hope it is. I'm going to hit play.
Questioner's repeats are a point from, let me see. So it's an infinitely expanding tautology.
We could explain everything. Now, here we go. This is it. Yep. By chance.
Well, there are two, I have two responses to that. One is, what would you say about the
irreducible component? Well, I'm trying to make sure it's possible for such a structure to,
I thought he was going to say, before she knew about DNA. The part where the guys
want you to stay home. The universe exploded into being out of
Oh gosh, here we go. Hitchens were thereby correct. Nope. I messed up and got the wrong one. Let me
see where it's at. I'm sorry. I'm doing this. I'm trying to make sure. I'm going to say I'll feel
bad for the people listening. No, I'm just joking. You found it? I think it was heard. I think this is
a question I answered poorly or inadequately or badly or failed to answer at all and would like
to challenge me. Here it is. If there is no God, why do you spend your whole life
trying to convince people that there isn't? Why don't you just stay home? Can you hear that?
Can you repeat that? The question is, if there is no God, why spend your life and career
trying to refute that? Why not just leave it alone and stay home? Fair enough?
Well, it's not my, it isn't my whole career, for one thing. It's become a
major preoccupation of my life, though, in the last eight or nine years, especially since
September 11, 2001, to try and help generate an opposition to theocracy
and its depredations internationally. That is now probably my main political
preoccupation, to help people in Afghanistan, in Somalia, in Iraq, in Lebanon, in Israel,
resist those who sincerely want to encompass the destruction of civilization and sincerely
believe they have God on their side in wanting to do so. I think maybe I will take a few minutes
just to say something that I find repulsive about, especially monotheistic messianic religion.
With a large part of itself, it quite clearly wants us all to die. It wants this world to come
to an end. You can tell the yearning for things to be over whenever you read any of its real texts,
or listen to any of its real, authentic spokesmen, not the sort of the pathetic apologists who
sometimes masquerade for it. Those who talk, there was a famous spokesman for this in Virginia
until recently about the rapture. I'd say that those of us who have chosen rightly will be gathered
to the arms of Jesus, leaving all of the rest of you behind. If we're in a car, it's your lookout.
That car won't have a driver anymore. If we're a pilot... The video goes on and on. Pretty much,
there are people who obviously take this and go all the way extreme. Gary, thank you for being a
member man and highlighting that. I just had to play it because I thought about that before we even
began. I was thinking about playing that clip. The reason to remain in Christianity or in church
might as much a desire to stay in communion with a community and not just holding to its culture.
Yeah, I agree. William Warren has been around for a minute. I agree. I think I saw a lot of people
view it. They grew up in it. Did you see this with Catholics a lot? It's a tradition. It's,
Roman Catholic. I'm a hundred percent Italian. I grew up in a Roman Catholic. I got confirmed
and they show up. Maybe they go on Christmas and Easter and they identify as Christian.
They're not online arguing with atheists. It's just tradition at that point.
To me, I don't have a problem with that at all. With so many Muslims, their tradition is just
Islam. You see them get lumped in the same categories with fundamentalists and that bothers
me. I was almost thinking about making a video about that. You see this with a lot of Christians
on Twitter attacking people, Muslims and Islamists. They use that phrase Islamist all the time.
I almost want to make a video about it, but anyways, yeah, that's my point.
Yeah, there are fundamentalists in all camps, right? Yeah, I mean, it's trying to be balanced.
That we're trying to do, but sometimes it hurts people's feelings because they identify themselves
with the idea so much, the theology or the belief or the book or whatever. When you're critical of it,
repercussions or enemies are made out of this and it's like, wow. If I point out that something I
think is manmade and is not divine, that is human and I want to show that, that could be a problem.
In certain countries, that would be illegal. I guarantee you, I'd be like killed in certain
countries. In other countries, there's more freedom to do that, but I still don't see any
reason to try and go out of my way to create the hate, you see, or to create that animosity.
I want to educate people. So I agree. What do you do? Lev's back again. Drew Tang mentioned on
BTR with nil of historical repetitions as signs of synchronicity. Death of Caesar, avenged by
Augustus, from death to Osiris and avenged by Horace, killing of the King Ritual.
Yeah, it's probably not like there's certain tropes in mythology that reoccur in history and
people map these things onto those mythologies as, for example, Augustus being the new Apollo.
You see certain Roman emperors will be considered to be a god, or not even just Roman emperors.
Greek kings are called Dionysus. You get the saviors and stuff. These tropes apply to these
people from the myths onto the people. So another way of saying it is because there's certain
common repetitive behaviors and practices. Kingship has been a common thing in antiquity. Kings die.
Kings get avenged, which is normal. Like today, if I have a sibling who dies and I avenge them,
you could model that into an ancient myth like what we're seeing, even though the reality is
here's a real king who gets killed and he really does get avenged. They're making narrative out of
the history of this repeating itself is the point. Something like that. Of course, we wouldn't
necessarily draw that Osiris himself actually existed in Horace, actually. But I think those
myths are modeled after human observations in the world. This is the point. We're back to
here's this geography. Here's things that happened in this geography. Here's a great story founded
off of this geography and how humans behave or whatever. Human reformation, the problem with
progressive Christianity is it enables the extremists. They don't stand up against extremism
that their religion helps create. I don't know if all progressives do that. I think-
Well, I think what they mean by this, I think what they mean by this is that
you become a fundamentalist, you have to go through the traditional
the route of being a moderate. The moderates are the door to the fundamentalists. The fundamentalists
don't just operate in there. Without the moderates, you might not have the fundamentalists. The
moderates are the ones who we accept. They're a part of society. There's nothing wrong with them.
Since those places exist, fundamentalism can also exist right next to it.
It's super, super muddy. This is a very hard thing to say and blame. I wouldn't put any blame
on moderates because they're moderates. I just want to make the point that that could be seen in
this super chat, that we don't want to do that. I know that humanist reformation isn't trying to
necessarily say that, but it can come across that way as let's now blame progressives for how
fundamentalist act. And I don't think that we shouldn't do that either. I know several progressives
and even some of the scholars I have on that are Christians at the end of the day
who are so against fundamentalism and they write against it. They speak against it. Look,
Dan McClellan. I don't know his ontology. I can't read his mind on what he actually believes. He
never says that. He identifies with Mormonism. That's his cold trial look. He was raised one his
whole life, but this guy spends every waking moment, every video to give actual scholarly
information. You got to give guys like that credit. And so I would put him in that progressive. I don't
know. Christians won't call him a Christian because he was Mormon. This is already a problem. You
know what I mean? But it's like, I don't know, man. The world is so much grarer.
Dale C. Ellison Jr. is one example of a Christian, but you can see him as a really good scholar.
You're not calling him out for fallacies. He's just Dale Ellison. He's a good scholar. He's
also a Christian. A lot of people like that. A lot of people. There are a lot of people like that.
These are tough ones to even try and wrestle because I wouldn't blame them as all I'm saying.
I wouldn't come across like it's their fault because even when you and me were
deconverting, we went through a phase where we were exiting that fundamentalism and became
more esoteric, more manly peahall, more spiritualist and stuff. We were still holding on to certain
things. And I mean, you might have certain things you still hold on to. I don't know. I don't try to
pick your brain, Neil. At the end of the day, though, you're nothing like you were.
Just like, I'm nothing like I was. We're trying to learn and be as factual with the data as we can.
Levagance is not to say Osiris was historic. Drew also mentioned the Fallen Kings,
commemorated with phallic monuments a la Osiris. Caesar and Lincoln get obelisk.
JFK got a big rocket going into space. JFK had a big one. Is that what you're trying to say?
That's a good point, though. There are things that, you know, if we were living in an ancient
society and this was the normal religious ideas of the day, you might map on some sort of
God to the Apollo mission. You might map, you know, Apollo. There you go. It's Apollo that did it.
It is Apollo.
So you could see how that would happen, right?
Absolutely. It's interesting to think. We know that the phallus is represented in the obelisk.
So they were huge on that. Wait till I get this course out with Karen, Dr. Karakuni.
She goes into the Egyptian mythology creation and the various creation accounts,
and then we get into resurrection and what they believed about resurrection.
And they have such a complex mythology. I did not expect it to be as complex as it is.
Right.
Ichipad, Christians like Ruslan, like distancing themselves from the embarrassing parts of
literalism, but can hardly explain why they take other parts literally.
Interesting.
Something you have to ask them, you know.
Taking jabs there, Brady.
I have to watch more Ruslan. I will check it out. I don't know. I can't. I don't know what he's.
I just know what he told us today, which I was mostly okay with, you know.
I mean, I get where this super chat's coming from.
Sure.
I totally get it. Like, where do you draw the line? Okay. So you're willing to say it's mytho
history in Genesis. Then you get to the Exodus. Is that mytho history?
Is Joshua's conquest mytho history? I say yes, if we're going to be fair, let's do it.
Because archaeology does not support this narrative.
Right.
But the narrative might be conveying as Jordan Peterson will say.
It's a story. It's a narrative. And there's something deep about, there's the microcosm
within the narrative.
It's happening every minute, even right now. It's happening all the time.
It's happening all the time.
It's happening certain things. Yeah.
Now, what do you, I remember the.
At an infinite level.
Yes. Yeah. It's actually, it's truer now than it ever was. If it's, you know, like he goes off.
And Joe Rogan just goes, whoa, dude.
Yeah. I love this, Ichipad, because if we do see it for what I think it is, and it's not just what
I think. I mean, this is what I think scholars are coming to. When we get to New Testament literature,
I mean, imagine you put the New Testament is the last thing you studied.
And we studied Heracles, the sleepiest, the various narratives of divine men, historic
and mythical. And we saw they go through these common, again, as we've been seeing brought up
from our friend here, Lev, these tropes that happened, whether mythical or historical people.
And they all have this apotheosis where they ascend to heaven after they die.
And then we go and we go, you know, hold on, what's this book I'm reading?
This book says New Testament. Oh, the Gospel of the Son of God, Jesus Christ. And look,
I actually got this from a Christian friend of mine, the Burroughs of Berea Park.
Anyway. Oh, wow. Okay. Hold on. I've seen something like this already before. And it came from this.
Oh, this legendary, this, this fable material from Livy or the various other historical writings.
And oh, wow, this looks a lot. Nothing's identical. Don't even have to say it copied.
You don't even have to say this has anything to do genetically with this material.
Right. But it looks and walks and talks and smells like fable. But this one really happened.
And I'm going to just, you know, ignore how this genre in its milieu would impact our
understanding of this genre. It just doesn't make sense to me. I keep harping on it, but
Philip definitely teleported after he baptized the Ethiopian. Now that happened. That's fact.
That's fact. If you dispute this. Yeah. Talk about hellfire. Talk about hellfire.
Mr. Monster, you know, it's funny. I used to really believe the Da Vinci Code movie was fact.
And that there was a living relative of Jesus somewhere.
Isn't it true that the author Da Vinci Codes even said this is not like even he thinks even he's
like coming, coming forth and saying this is not real. I think so. But still, even with that being
said, people still believe it. They don't care. It's a cool story. Like the clever, ingenious
imagination that comes behind a movie like that or really a book that gets turned into a movie.
You know, that's the point. That's the point. Of course. That's believable. I could see why
the Gospels are believable. I could see why someone would think Romulus ascended or or Cesar
Augustus or any of these other things. I can understand why they would do this. So couch it
in that. Seth of the Hala says, I take it you guys don't watch the World Cup.
Not really. I haven't. I'll check it out. If I'm like, if it's in front of me, like if I'm,
you know, going somewhere and they're like, I don't know. I love it. I like it. I just don't
know much about it. I'm not keeping up on it. I've always been more of a football person.
I'm more of a child. That is football. But I should say American football because they
call it football. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We have American. I guess I'm just too American. No,
I don't know. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. For sure. Did you hear me? I said,
I'm more of a chalice kind of guy, not a cup kind of guy. So Roger Williams, my concept is that the
super right Christian nationalists will get violent or more violent when they see that the
end times haven't materialized. This is why I'm trying to educate. I hope more people look at
the apocalypticism educational stuff on where does this stuff come from? How ancient Israelites
would have had these ideas. We were just talking about before the stream, Persian, Persian, Zoroastrianism
and apocalypticism. You were going to bring up Michael Jones's video about this and how he says
this text is 500 AD. That may be the oldest extant writing about this. We know for a fact
that Persian Zoroastrianism has been around for millennia before. Yeah, it's so well sourced,
even in Greek text. You know, Plato and Aristotle and those good, those people are referencing
Zoroaster and the Magi and what they like. If you have the Gathas, you have there's multiple texts.
And but yeah, that was a whole different topic. But yeah, yeah, just bringing it out that
that's why we're trying to do. I think the point you were making is
there's this, a Christian will say, well, this text wasn't fully developed in its current form
until 500, you know, 400 or something, 5th century. Okay, 5th century text. All right,
the Bible, the oldest complete Bible, Christian Bible is from 325. So does that mean I get to say
the Bible isn't show up till 325? No, of course not. Because we know that there's manuscripts
that predate it, we have fragments, we have its source, there's there's text, there's like we
know that this these texts developed and then get put together at that time. It's the same thing.
Right. Grace 174, have you ever covered Jesus in the Talmud?
I have with Dr. James Tabor. Dr. James Tabor and I did a video about Jesus and Pantera,
but not just Pantera. Also, we also talked about the the sources in the Talmud and the Mishnah
particular that mention Jesus, people using Jesus's name to heal snake bites. So we went
through all that stuff. So yeah, I do. I would say yes, I have with Dr. Tabor.
I, um, perfect time to shamelessly plug this. Dr. Tabor is doing a course. We're about to launch
that sneeze hurt me. I won't say in the name of Jesus right now for me. Dr. Tabor and I are about
to launch his Jesus and the Dead Sea Scroll course. And, you know, it's it's a it's gonna be really,
really fun. So I hope people check it out. Definitely. Dr. Cheryl, thank you for being in
the chat and being such a lovely supporter everywhere. I mean, on all the social medias,
you're constantly plugging away. I'm a great scholar. Really appreciate you. Me too. Me too.
What do the two of you think the hook is that keeps Christians from moving beyond their understanding
of the biblical texts? My right off the bat, I'll say it's it's hope for we have we have everything
figured out because the one of the things that we all have in common as humans is, well, what do
we do? What is this reality that we're in? Why is there something rather than nothing? What happens
when we die? Is there was anyone have it figured out? And then religion comes along and says,
I have we haven't figured out for you. It's all okay, especially if you grow up in one. So I think
growing up in the tradition, even if you grew up Catholic and then became an evangelical old,
you're still kind of it's still some of the same cultural Jesus is God,
believe in Jesus, you'll go to heaven. And so that aspect of like, of hoping everything's figured
out. And these people, these ancient texts are right. I hope they're right, because I don't want
to be, I don't want to die. I want to live forever. That's what I think is going on. I think that's
the hook. There's a lot of layers to this question in terms of answering the problem that I think
is. And it's a natural thing. I think it's the antiquity. I think it's the the majority
of people in your group. So you're, you're raised in a tradition. It's kind of the father taught
me something. My daddy's right. And my daddy can beat your daddy up. There's that tribalistic I
was raised. That can be for some, not all. It also may be subjective emotional attachment to the
identity that you're given. For me, I think the hook was that there was this compassionate, loving
father. When I first heard the message, who, who had me covered, who sent his son a loving message,
even though it was when you really think about it, it's like, he slaughters his son, according to
the theology purposely sends him to have him killed on my behalf, that kind of approach. But
it was really this loving compassionate father would never let me down, loves me unconditionally,
got me sucked in, and then, hey, there's this long standing tradition. You think all these
people can be wrong? Right. You're going to go against all that. And you got to get outside of
that bubble and look at the Muslim world if you're a Christian, which means that Muhammad is not
the last prophet. If you're a real Christian that's based on the tradition, you're not looking at
Muhammad as the final prophet. So you have this discrepancy of like, why are there
over a billion Muslims believing in Islam? So I'm just saying, there are more than,
I think, one thing that play factors into why there's this hook. And I think it's a,
there's a really powerful story there. Right. And I saw episode just one comment on this about
evolution. And that was why the title of the video was something like, why did the homo sapien
group survive and wire the Neanderthal no longer alive? They were much stronger primates than us.
They had bigger brains than us. What was it that made us different? And the person said it was story
connecting larger number of us and that we can only find like up to 50 or so Neanderthal in a group.
They would live in small groups, like in caves, separate from other Neanderthal groups.
Whereas, well, sapiens were sort of clicked together in those. We find a narrative that we
could construct. Even if it's a fictive narrative, look at nationalism. Look at how passionate people
are about their national identity. It's bad. It's worse than sometimes religion. I mean,
it's so bad. People are ready to get violent. Now, it's not just that religion. Religion can
be coupled into it. Look at history, the way people annihilated people and fought wars over
this stuff. It wasn't the religion itself, though. I think there's a human thing about it. But
that, I think, would explain. Identity is like the core message. And our story's true. And we
need to capitalize on that. I think there's a hook to it in some way. And we're trying to educate
to break those walls down as much as we can. It's not easy. Very difficult to unteach
these things that we've held so dear. It's a super complex question that Dr. Cheryl asked,
but that's my two cents. Human reformation, keep evangelizing against these religions.
The past 10 years, a vocal atheist has had a big impact. Remember Christianity has evangelized
for over 1,000 years. We are doing good with just 10 years of active atheist evangelism.
Well, you can go back to Thomas Paine and some of these liberals coming out of the 18th and 17th
centuries pushing back against some of the dogmas of their day. I don't know. I think there's always
been some sort of put, maybe not in the middle ages, or maybe there was, but I'm just saying,
I think it's been going on for a little while. I get what humanist reformation is saying. The last
10 years really is getting more normalized now. This is a normal idea for a lot of people, whereas
just 10, 20 years ago, it wasn't as normalized. So yeah, I agree.
I want to just, the one thing I want to harp on this is this. I know I identify as someone by
definition who's an atheist, meaning I personally am a metaphysical atheist,
philosophical atheist. I'm somebody who thinks there is no God. I don't lack theism,
even though if you pressed me, I really don't know if there is something. But I don't believe
there is. I don't have any inclination on thinking that. I understand consciousness hasn't been solved,
but like all things that we once put some superstitious or unexplainable thing to,
we have recognized there's probably a natural cause. And as far as consciousness goes, I apply it to
the same category of something we may not have figured out yet, but we're trying to solve and
we're getting there. And it's super complex. I get it. Life is complex. A few centuries ago,
we didn't know what, we didn't know how to explain the DNA. We didn't understand how to get down into
the cells and stuff. These were a black box to people like Darwin. I think they will be explained.
However, I also don't want to necessarily make everyone think that that conclusion is correct.
That is not my goal. You can believe that there's something to the universe, a mind or whatever.
I have no problem with that. But I want to say the stories, the narratives that we think are the
dogma of truth that I want to tear down. I want people to realize your book is not this sacred
thing that directly came down from heaven. That goes for Muslims, that goes for Christians, that
goes for Jews, that goes for anybody. I'm not convinced and I want to make a case for it. I
want to explain to you why I see human fingerprints through and through to the very ground on this
whole thing. You can believe what you want to believe and I'm not trying to make people not.
However, if I teach you some critical thinking skills and you think that I'm on the right track
here, cool. I encourage you to maybe draw the conclusions I might be. If I'm missing something,
I'm missing something. I'm trying to be as honest and fair as I can. I needed to say that, Neil,
because you and me have talked off record about a lot of the communities sometimes are very tribalistic
even with an atheism. It's like you don't think like me on this point and then you're ostracized
and condemned and damned and I don't want to be that way. I want to try and understand we're not
all, we don't all perceive the world the same way and we all have room to grow and try to empathize.
I think the most honest approach is we don't know everything. We haven't figured it out.
We can't prove any way or the other. I have my beliefs on the way you, a certain person might
call God and based off what the religion says, I don't believe that. No. For me to say that for
sure that I know what this reality is and there is nothing or there is this or that or the other,
I have no idea. I think the honest approach is to say we don't know yet. We'll get there.
Well, yeah, I think, but if I took the track record of how things have been explained with
natural cause, I think it was one of the theoretical physicists who said like we pretty much nailed
down laws of nature and understand how the universe works. I think it was Neil deGrasse Tyson who
pointed this out too. Like look, it's not that mysterious, the universe itself. You go beyond
that or try to figure out how universes work and stuff. We don't have answers to. It's just,
my point is, is like, there are some very amazing humans who are very esoteric.
They're not dogmatic. They're not carrying a dogma. They're not my views correct and yours is,
you know, they're not doing that, but they think there's something like my wife. She's right above
me in her office. She thinks there's something. Yeah, universe. I think most people do.
It's not. I understand why even naturally, scientifically, I understand why humans would
naturally draw that conclusion. We had who was the scholar on? I don't have the book here,
but I have the ebook. It's the phantom God. And then the other one is pretty much he goes and
talks about how children and their mother's womb. They know this this being called their mother,
who is a soft, still small voice. And when they cry, even if their mom's not around,
they know mom will come to rescue them, infants. And we're neurologically wired to think something's
there. Even if mom wasn't there, we would think mom's there. Well, that small leap between mother
and father from a newborn child to something out there. It's built in us. We're wired to think
that way naturally. So that leap is not ridiculous or absurd on why I think people do it. I just
think it's one of those small leaps in our in our evolutionary process and in our existence
that we're making a leap, assuming something's there that isn't there. That's my opinion. And I
think it's like that weird Mariah Carey song, that hero song. I know I'm throwing it up there,
but there's some philosophy in it that I think is deep. When I'm alone, she pretty much goes into
the lyrics, talking about when I'm alone, I realized that it was me in me, the hero existed. It was I,
the whole time who had what it took, the strength to overcome, and the people around me who helped
me do it. We always tell mom, thank you, God, for saving her. And then there's the surgeon who just
cut the brain tumor out. And you're thinking, God, what about that brain surgeon who really had the
skill took the time to learn? And, you know, I just think we miss it sometimes. Sure, good point.
We went on a tangent there. I apologize. It happens. It happens. Hang for she. Am I pronouncing
this right? Have you ever heard how to properly pronounce? I am not sure at all how to pronounce
that, but thank you. Yeah. Loving the Hitchens mentions tonight. Thank you. I enjoy watching
him from time to time. I love watching some Hitchens. Hitchens was great. It just was great.
He was very entertaining and very amazing personality.
Yeah, he really was poetic. Very passionate. Lobowski, Jefferson, need content debunking
the Hebrew-Israelite movement going on. You could consider them a sect of fundamentalists.
And with that being the case, hatred towards other races and cultures is pushed heavy.
It's a sad situation. Yeah, I'm not sure. I think there's an interesting Hebrew-Israelite
movement. It depends on the sect for sure. There's a couple of them that call themselves that.
So, but yeah, I wouldn't doubt it. I mean, there's a lot of dogmatic groups out there that,
you know, they're out there. There's a lot. Absolutely. I mean, there's British-Israelites
who think they're the chosen British race of Israelites, that the Caucasians are somehow the
chosen ones. Right, right. You have this also in Hebrew-Israelite-type groups. I think the enemy
in some of them is people with white skin. Puerto Ricans or Spanish people and Africans and stuff
fit certain tribes. And they have a modern, you know, way of dividing up how that works.
The person that I've always just kept deferring to was Garfield, who does all the YouTube videos,
and he has the dagger squad, as he calls it. And he does a lot of this stuff, debunking it.
And believe it or not, even in the Christian vein, who is it? I can't even think. The other
night I popped in one of his lives just to say, hey, because, you know, I'm friendly with everybody.
Yeah. Help me out in the chat. If you know the Christian apologist, he's a Calvinist guy,
but he actually goes out of his way to kind of debunk some of these particular theological
positions in the Hebrew-Israelite communities. I'm not sure. It's not ringing the bell right now.
Someone in the chat's got to help me out here. There's got to be someone out of the 375 people
watching that knows who I'm talking about. I have no idea. I can't. I'm not. I have no idea
what you're talking about. I'm trying. I'm waiting to see if someone has to help me out here.
All right. I'm going to have to look it up. Hebrew-Israelite.
Vocab alone? Someone said? Vocab. Did someone comment that? Yeah. Okay. Yes. So even vocab,
I mean, I got to agree with him when he comes in with certain things because looking at my Bible,
looking at this and going, yep, there's some stuff here that I don't think factors in. But that
happens with systematic theology, period. So when you create a system out of texts that are not
meant to be written for complimenting each other, various theological ideas, you're going to run
into some systematic problems. Right. If you think that the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation,
was written with this single narrative that was all in unity, harmonizing, and it's meant to be,
for like, one author wrote it, so to speak, through the Spirit. And I get why people do that.
You're going to have some problems. This is why our Minions and Calvinists exist.
Both theologies are biblical. You'll find both within the texts. Right. You'll find various
doctrines and teachings just depends on where you turn and how you're perceiving that literature.
Yeah. That's what a lot of those Protestant early, those big probably Calvin and them,
they really wanted to go back to the text. Not like, forget about the rituals of mass and
going like this. What does the text say? That's what that's kind of what the approach was. It
seems like. Right. It seems like that. And I think there was a lot of that. However, there was,
you know, like everybody, you have your modern context. I love the story about Martin.
You're replacing it with a new one now. Yeah. Right. Right. But I think they were trying to do
things that were radical for their time. Martin Luther, though, what I thought was interesting
is the one thing you wouldn't agree with with Calvin on, and they had like 15 or 16 points
they debated and they were all like, thumbs up, thumbs up. They get to the Eucharist
and they do not find any agreement. Martin Luther slam in his fist as it's recounted,
this is my body. This is, and of course, he's yelling it.
What else could it mean? Right. It means what he said, this is my body. And of course,
consubstantiation occurs because Calvin has had a spiritual perception of understanding the Eucharist.
And there's differences. Because of that, a lot of churches today don't have
any communion at all. There are a lot. Yeah. There's a lot of Protestant evangelicals and
a lot of Baptists that don't do any communion at all all year round. Nothing. Never. You eat with
them after the ceremony. You know, you all break bread together and there's like this idea of like
that's happening within you, like a spiritual, but it's not like you're not going, you're not
walking up to a priest and he's not handing you like a, that's not happening in those churches.
Imagine we went to church tomorrow and the priest or pastor, whoever goes, ladies and gentlemen,
before I tell you what the Lord said in this situation of eating his flesh and drinking his
blood, I want to tell you about a story called Euripides talks about Dionysus. I want to tell
you about the shredding of the Titans grinding Dionysus with their teeth and why the raw flesh
in this text is what we're seeing with Jesus. There was a man named Dionysus. He was really a
God who was born of a mortal woman and Zeus. And you know, similarly, and like go into the story
and explain why this story comes from an older Egyptian story of Osiris and set and like go
into the various mythologies in Egypt and how it was agricultural and this evolved all the way
down to Jesus day. So when we do this tradition, it didn't start with our Lord and savior.
It started with other people's lords and saviors. And we are now initiating our own tradition.
How would that break the walls down? And Eusebius, Eusebius would have did this in his,
he would have said these are all leading up to Christ. That's why there's so much similarities
happening. They're all, they're all, they're trying to find it. They just, they were at the
wrong time. That's how he dealt with it. Others might have said those are demons and they're
trying to imitate because they knew Jesus was coming. So Satan made it look like them and it's like
who's right? Which Christian's right about this?
Craig and Ford in the house. John F. White. Good to see you here, man. Hallelujah chaps.
Great show this evening. Thank you. Well, thank you. Appreciate the love.
Appreciate it. Well, Neil, I got to plug you, man. You hung out with me this long. We've been
two and a half. Dude, I didn't realize time flew by, flew by. Oh my gosh, we really, really did.
So I hope people know about Neil's YouTube channel. There's 373 of you. I'm going to make
sure that I post this here in the chat. Any final questions before we wrap up? Anybody?
No, that was great. That was, I enjoyed it. I think there's, we said a lot. I think it's well
said. I think that's it. I put this in the comments or down in my description. I didn't play it.
If you haven't subscribed to this channel, the Inquisitive Bible Reader highly recommend. I
was going to play this to let you hear the divine visitors in disguise and point out
how Sodom and all these other stories have very common trope. And they are obviously myth.
They're not literal history in any way. Here is that YouTube video in case you want to watch
that after the stream. It's also in the description. So if you're missing it in the chat, you can go
down in the description and see this video. I'm sure that the content creator will appreciate
the fact that I'm promoting and plugging them. Now I'm looking for you, Neil. I need that gnosis,
bro. What are you working on, man? I got a video tomorrow coming out that I did with Candida Moss.
Can you tease us? So we mentioned, we did talk about a lot of stuff. We talked about the tradition
of the martyr and where it all comes from. We're talking about how Socrates and some of the Greeks
have that legendary martyr status. And then obviously within Judaism, you have the prophets
and you have, you know, the suffering servant and then Jesus. And then all of a sudden, all the
stories about Paul and Peter and Polycarp, they're all being martyred. St. Andrew and all this,
all these stories about all these martyrs, we get into, there's thousands of them, by the way,
thousands of them. We talked about the bucket, the bucket, bucket movement. Sorry. There was a
bucket movement in Rome and it was persecuted hardcore. Like they were persecuted and they were
considered to be illegal. Like they were being sought after, all that stuff. And but the Christians,
they're, they kind of had this similar story, but it turns out that it wasn't as bad as they
said it was. And it doesn't get bad until way later for a specific period of time under Diocletian,
but not under Nero. And there's no, they're not getting. So we talked about all that stuff
and other things as well. So that's coming out soon. That book she wrote, Myth of Persecution,
I'm not kidding. I sometimes I'll put music on while I'm reading. As long as it's not disturbing
my thinking, it helps me to kind of just zone out on the words sometimes on the page. Sometimes I
have to turn all the music off, but sometimes music helps. And I had this music just right.
And it was giving me the feels in the section of this Greek story with the goddess or no,
it wasn't a goddess. It was a princess or the king's daughter. And I don't remember the name of
the daughter, but like they needed to go to war and they couldn't get the winds to get the ships
out of the out of the bay. So the king promised, I can't remember how it went, but the daughter
ended up being sacrificed. And he told them, come, I have a husband for you. She comes with the mom.
It was a lie. He tricked her to come and then ends up having a sacrifice. And she's like,
let this be, this is my gift or my, my honor. And, and I'm going to die for this nation so
that you guys can, can win the war or something. It was martyrdom. She was willing after she was
at first reluctant, she was willing to go to her death on purpose. And it kind of was like this
four or 500 years before Jesus, before the Maccabees, martyrdom story in the Greek world.
Yeah. And that, and that becomes like, it becomes part of the culture in every respect,
not just one religion, but like being someone that stood up to, that stood up for the truth
against some sort of like powers that be. That's a really like legendary thing that
is just all over the board.
Well, we got one more here. Apostate of Mind podcast. I got to give a plug to Apostate of Mind.
And the reason is they are trying so hard to grow. We got to help them.
By the way, this is bringing it up as a good point is like, we have our links in our,
in the description for, if you want to come to Israel with me and Derek and a couple of scholars,
we're doing it. And you have a lot of time to get a down payment down and pay like you and
not Derek are doing this too. We're, we're paying as we're, we're paying for our trip.
And it's worth every penny. We did it already. We know what we're in for.
We know what we're going back. That's how fun it was.
Go subscribe. I just posted this in the chat. Apostate of Mind says,
I can't wait to meet you find gentlemen in Israel next year. Thank you both for all the amazing
content. Look, we've got Dr. Kil, Dr. Kip Davis, me, you, we're going to be having Jennifer Birds
going. Matthew Munger may go. May. We also have scholars that are over there in Israel who are
going to be there at the Kumran site, female academics that know this place inside out,
and they're going to help us on the tour educate. It was so much fun. I mean, it was so much fun.
I don't even know if I had the link in the description. I'm supposed to be putting that in
the description in every video just so that people can have access. And I forgot to.
This is a vision tours or not to get former tours.com.
I need to get the link just to be safe. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
There was so much fun. Remember the night we went down into to Hinnom?
Yeah, we're going to do that again. Oh my gosh, we're leading a tour this time. It's not just
going to be like we're actually going down into the valley of Hinnom. And it was crazy.
Yeah, it was cool though. It was cool. I'm trying to find that link in case anybody's
interested in checking it out. You can put a little something down payment to put reserve
your spot and then it gives you time to make more. I swear it was an experience. I have never
experienced in my life and it was a blast. We I learned so much. We went to the town right next
to Nazareth and saw tell them about the stuff we saw on the ground and in these houses. These
are Jewish homes, by the way. We found mosaics of Orpheus and Dionysus and Satyrs and Greek
Aphrodite like all types of amazing mosaics on the floors and on the walls everywhere. It was great.
You saw the Zodiac in the in the in what is it called the Jewish synagogue. There was a Zodiac
in the zone and beautiful, beautiful archaeology there. So definitely check that out. Someone
said or it's just Jerusalem syndrome. Derek, Jim and his stuff is trippy man something there, man.
Well, there are people who get that. There are people who get I don't know about the whole
airwaves thing, but there are people who do get this like they go to the Holy Land and they're
like, Oh my God, they get like sucked into this is so true and it becomes almost like a spiritual
experience. The whole thing. Oh, yeah. There's some people who do that. I imagine people who
do this for Mecca who go to the Kaaba in Islam or various other holy sites for their particular
place. This will be a secular historical. You can have your faith or not. It doesn't matter.
This is not one of those kind of things. We're giving you the historical scholarly take.
We're going to have scholars who are doing that on the tour. They're not going to be giving you,
Oh, well, this fourth century site, this is really where Jesus was. You're going to get that if you
go to tours, especially faith based or church based ones that are over there, you're going to get
this. This is the house Peter was at. And this is where Jesus really was crucified. And this is
where no, every serious scholar may have an opinion or they think this might be a place.
Some might say, No, this is literary completely. And it reminds me of one. So when Candida
Moss did the interview on Fox on the Bill O'Reilly's show, on the O'Reilly factor,
he's talking to her, the scholar, the expert. And he's going, No, Joseph of Arimathea,
it was very wealthy. We know he exists. We know where he was. We have all the data.
Like he's saying this to somebody who lives this stuff as if he's telling her like, Oh,
yeah, there's a source that you just don't know about. It's so wild to see that. I have clips of
that interview in the video because I asked her about that interview. So I have a highlight reel
of that interaction. She was great in that by the way. When is that coming out? So maybe tomorrow,
the next day, but probably tomorrow. I'm probably finishing tonight after this.
I'm going to add the tour information in the description. We should do some more videos
because a lot of people haven't seen that. They probably don't even know about it yet,
or they need to be reminded. Maybe this maybe later, I'll look into it. I hope we can get
everybody to go. Apostate of Mind podcast is going to be there. And we're going to do some recording.
Yeah. So Mark is Mark's going to be making some YouTube videos. We're going to be doing a lot
of content. And when we get back, you and I have multiple cinema rigs going 4k, 6, like,
this is we're ready this time. Now we went last time as ready as we could have been.
Yeah. Now we know what we need to do to be better prepared to make better content. So this is not,
we're not going to miss it this time. We're going to be cutting out like we did. There was so much
we did on that tour that I don't think we got to absorb and really focus on some of the more
yeah, but we're going to get some great content. I like I love going down and haggling in Jerusalem
with the guys, you know, no, no, no, no, 50 shekels. No, so fun. 45. That's it. I'm doing those nights
in Jerusalem are so you'll never forget it when you're walking through that village. When there's
all the shops and you're walking through and it's like, it was so amazing. Just the experience. Yeah.
You know, I love the food with so freaking good. Yeah. I love I love I'm going back. So
yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, let's hope some people will sign up and go. We want to fill the bus up.
If in look while you're on the tour, you don't if you don't want to be on camera,
you don't have to be. This is an opportunity to get to hang out with some of the scholars you've
been learning from and hang out with us. We're trying to go and have a blast for this trip.
So I hope people go. There's so many memories we're going to make. We're going to be there.
What is it? 10 11 days, something like that. Nine, 10 days. I can't remember. I think it's
nine or 10. Check out the itinerary. Yeah. Any final words from you? Oh, MNAG in the house.
Drop in the last minute. Super. MNAG is in the kingdom. The gates are closing.
The final of the final of the final final is upon us. Thank you for everybody in the chat for
being respectful. Disagreeing is fine, especially when Ruslan came in. I know that people can't
stand some of the content that comes from Christian apologists and different channels like that.
I can tolerate it even if I disagree. And I hope that others will imitate that. So
well said. Nothing to add to that. I was well said. No final words from you now.
No, that's that's great. And I just keep keep on keep on putting out content, Derek. You're
crushing. You're almost you're you hit 100k and now you're already now you're already looking
through 200. Like you're almost doubling that like one percent of the time frame it took you to get
to 200. That's true. This is crazy how that happens. It is true. It's a weird world. I don't know.
Someone introduced me to making documentaries. I don't know who the hell did that.
They're kind of smart. They're kind of smart. They're pretty good. They might have noses. They
work. They were people. People like to have a nice video that has a good vibe going on with it.
This is true. Sometimes I'm not knocking videos that are like lectures and more academically.
I'm not knocking that at all. But it's not for everyone. Some people want something entertaining.
You know, yeah, that's all. Nothing. I'm not like yourself here. Are you the one who introduced me
to this? Is that what it is? I do it too. That's what I'm saying. I do it too. You taught me, man.
If it weren't for Neil, we both have been talking together and working together. So it's not like
you introduced me to the idea, though, of like... I didn't invent making a documentary. This is just
a thing, yeah. I know. But I saw that it worked. And I was like, you know, I've worried about doing
it because the amount of time and energy that goes into making them is serious. And I thought to myself,
my channel so used to pump it out a video a day that it would harm me, I would imagine, to do that.
What if it gets the same amount of views the rest of my videos get? I need to do this.
I do this full time. And this is how I'm able to do this. And I thought, man, if it weren't for people
on the Patreon, I would be screwed. There's just no way I would have been able to sit there that week.
Exactly. And if I just could, thank you for my Patreons that are watching and stuff just because
you're right. It's those are the people that allow me to be able to step back and focus on quality
over the quantity. Right. Well, that's what I'm trying to do is a little bit of both. I know the
documentaries are obviously going to get far more views. Yes, we have sensational titles.
Watch the content. The content is going to be good stuff. And we're trying to use scholarly
works to do it. Some of it might be on the outskirts, not consensus. Some of it will be consensus.
But yeah, thanks for everybody. Just everybody. You disagree with us or not? Thank you. We love
you. I hope you have a wonderful day. Neil, thanks for your time, man, and coming to hanging out with
me and stuff. Thanks for inviting me. Thanks for inviting me. Let's do this again soon. And thank
you, Rosalyn, if you're watching at this point. Apology for misunderstanding that video, thinking
you were trying to scare Christians and hype the BS up. But I still think your Sodom and Gomorrah
stuff is just a leap in logic in terms of drawing your conclusions. But I can't wait to meet you
in person and actually do some stuff where we can go back and forth and have a fair back and forth
dialogue on where we're both coming from. So if you watch this, all right,
we are MythVision. And you have just attained true noses, true noses.
