Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups, help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Thanks for tuning in.
If you're new, make sure you guys hit that like button, hit the subscribe button, check
the bell.
That way you're notified every time I drop a bomb.
And I have an interesting guest again joining me, Bernie Taylor.
He's an independent naturalist and author whose research explores the mythological connections
and biological knowledge among prehistoric indigenous and ancient peoples.
His work in these areas include biological time before Orion, finding the face of the
hero 2017.
Before Orion is premised on Joseph Campbell's hero's journey, monomyth, that is the core
of stories worldwide among indigenous peoples, the ancients and our modern society.
Before Orion explores a deeper route for this monomyth by looking at how hunter-gatherers
viewed themselves within the natural and spiritual worlds through paleolithic carvart from 40,000
years ago, Taylor proposes that select cave paintings are fundamental pieces in human
journey to self-realization, the foundation of written language and a record of biological
knowledge that irrevocably impacted some of the artistic styles, religious practices
and stories that are still with us today.
Make sure you guys go down in the description.
You can help MythVision podcast out if you guys want to help us grow, as well as help
Bernie out.
Get his book, check out his material, join his social media programs and check all that
out.
With that being said, Bernie, welcome to MythVision, man.
Thanks for joining me, sir.
Well, Derek, thanks for having me back on, it's been about a year.
It has been about a year.
We got to make this more frequent than that.
And a lot's happened since then.
Yes, sir.
A lot has happened since then.
And I know with our first show, we had a lot of people who were just like me.
I'm like, okay, wow, this is really interesting.
Did they write, did they draw, did they not only draw but carve into stone these images
of creatures that kind of take you through the internal mythology of humanity, if you
will, and also an astrological connection.
But today, I figured you were going to take us into something different.
I don't know.
Are we still doing heaven and hell?
We can do heaven and hell.
We can mix them with some angels.
I wrote a piece for the Free Thought Society, it's a news magazine sort of thing.
And you can go to look, people can look up the Free Thought Society online in there for
November edition.
And I'm not, I'm not like an active member of the Free Thought Society.
But the basic concept is a mix of atheists, sects, and humanists who don't want prayer
in schools.
And people give their testimonies and so forth.
And I approached them with a different idea for their newsletter.
Not about the testimony of why I don't believe in God and how, you know, I got sucked into
some evangelical movement, but more of why do we believe in God?
Why do people believe in God?
Because half the people in the world believe there's a divine force, the other half doesn't.
Or either side was one side of the other crazy, or we all crazy.
And so to pitch that one to atheists and sects and humanists, it's like, hey, no, we know
the other side is crazy.
And I, so I've, I've talked about this and how did we come to the idea of God and in,
and or how do we, how can we disprove God is actually a better idea.
How do we disprove God?
And separately we can also talk about where did heaven and hell come from, which is also
in the same sphere of influence.
So these are questions that, you know, people's hairs are already being raised in your audience.
I get it.
And that's okay.
Because if we learn where we came from, we can better debate the other side where that
side is.
We can also look inside ourselves to see what do we believe that the other side thinks
is crazy?
It may very well be.
So we ready to walk down this path and through the gates of hell?
Dude, I've been to hell and back a couple of times.
That's right.
You've been there.
You're telling me the story.
That's right.
So that kind of start with is very few people have actually said, or actually the prophets
said that they directly spoke with God.
It's actually quite rare in the scriptures.
They speak through an angel, most commonly speak through an angel.
Would that be Mohammed and Mary who was told by Gabriel that Jesus would give to her in
the birth, Abraham, Daniel, I mean, the whole host of them listen to angels, not directly
to the voice of God.
And the angels became that intermediary.
And this is a tradition we find around the world of people who are hearing voices from
what may be an angel.
Another word might be an avianoid, a bird man, because these are typically male characters.
And if we can disprove that there are in fact angels, if we could disprove that, we can
say almost definitively that what was said from the alleged great Almighty through these
angels to man is more mortal than divine.
Does that make sense?
I'm catching the logic for sure.
Yes.
If you can disprove the messenger, you can disprove, you can show that it's a myth versus
fact.
I know that's the direction.
So we can go around the world and we can go back in time.
We go tens of thousands of years back in time, and we can find these angel characters on
cave walls.
And what they are, it's very clear what they are, is they're people who are dressed up
in costumes.
And they typically raptors.
So raptors are high flying birds.
Raptors also eat the dead.
And so it's a way of getting rid of the corpse as well as taking that corpse to another place,
a higher lofty place.
And so that's a pretty important concept that there are birds, there are bird people tens
of thousands of years ago that had this ability.
And I'm trying to pull up one right now.
And here we go.
And you're going to share my screen, share a screen, and you don't see all my hate mail,
right?
That's important.
Okay, so you can see, you can now see this cosmic man, correct?
I do not see your screen.
I'm sorry.
Okay, share.
So I'm doing a share screen.
Uh-huh.
And it's on the share screen.
Yes, sir.
If I hit share screen.
It should, you choose what you're trying to share once you hit it.
So it pops up a menu and you should be able to.
Okay.
Actually, I'm going to do that.
Yeah.
Share screen.
There we go.
Okay.
I pushed that to the side.
Maximize.
Side by side mode.
I'm in enable remote control applications.
Maximize zoom and share screen.
Well, that's not working.
And so that's, we're in the share screen.
And maximize zoom window with particular window share screens.
Scale to fit share screen window to enable remote control ball applications.
Side by side mode.
And I just took off.
I just took all those out.
Okay.
So we're going to, we're going to skip the, the.
The videos.
But what we do have going back tens of thousands of years ago is we have
the shamanic characters.
And the shamanic characters have a mask and it's very clear that they
have a mask on.
So this isn't a matter of interpretation.
Cause we can see, you can see an eye through the mask.
You can see the chins that drop below the mask.
In fact, it's one case.
He actually takes the mask on and off.
It shows both.
And so these, these angelic characters are truly.
People that are wearing masks that go on through their transformative
journey.
And so in Siberia, back 1900, about 1900,
and to today we have records from anthropologists who study these
shamanic characters.
And you would have a shaman go into a dance in his dance.
He, he transforms their horse and birds and the bird is most often
a raptor and eagle prominent among them.
And he goes to the land of the debt.
Okay.
So this all ties together.
He goes to the land of dead and he goes to ask for assistance.
Do you know who he goes to ask for assistance to land of the dead?
Who the sea shaman.
He goes to ask the sea shaman.
He doesn't go equivalent of the prophets.
So he goes to his equivalent of, you know, Jesus, Mary,
Joseph and Abraham and Daniel and the rest of them.
He goes to ask the dead shaman because they have the power to give
him their insight about who they should have,
how to help their current people.
So there is no, there is no divine,
since singular divine being the great almighty, the God.
It's great mystery, you could say that,
but clearly there is no God in the shamanic tradition.
That shamanic tradition in Siberia is identical to cave,
cave images from tens of thousands of years ago,
because they're the same people.
You know, Bernie, this is interesting.
You say this because I don't know why I'm thinking
of the witch and wind of indoor and the bringing up of Samuel,
the prophet, his spirit or his ghost.
He needs to know if he's going to win the war that day.
Notice he doesn't call upon Yahweh.
He doesn't ask God.
He goes to a witch to pull up the spirit of a prophet to find out if he's going to,
you know, so it's just wild.
Like why didn't you just go to the big man upstairs the whole time anyway?
Exactly, because the tradition that the ancient Israelites drew upon
was shamanic in nature.
They'd invent it.
They're drawing on traditions that went so far back in time,
tens of thousands of years that we can now see.
And so when we find the bird, the angel,
how would you describe the bird,
the angel in all the images that you see him?
Sorry, I got to fly.
That's like why it's pence did that one, yeah.
I know that's what I'm trying to prevent.
I want to go down in history with that.
So when it comes to angels, what do I think?
I mean, they're winged creatures, the seraphim with six wings.
I mean, what else flies that has wings other than birds?
So I get the logic of why they would be winged figures,
if you will, that can fly.
Exactly.
So they're winged.
They're winged in the Abrahamic tradition.
They tend to have human faces.
Okay.
But if you go around the world, the same,
and throughout time,
those same characters often have a mask or an actual raptor face.
So Horus,
the Horus of the Egyptian tradition.
Can you describe him?
Beaked faced God.
Yeah.
Who is the intermediary between the Pharaoh
and the one God, the great almighty.
Okay.
Same tradition.
And yoga.
A couple of sessions before.
Okay.
Okay.
So Garudasan is the eagle pose that you went into.
And you went into many poses of the down dog.
You went to lion.
You did a snake pose.
You did a whole bunch of ones.
And then in the yoga tradition,
you were asking and receiving assistance from those animals.
Okay.
And you go into Garudasan Garudasan,
and you become the eagle, the angelic character.
So you've done it. I mean, you've, you've been there.
So you are just as crazy as anybody else on the other side.
Right.
Because you've done it. Okay.
Have you ever done the chicken dance in October fest?
No, I have not.
Well, I bet half of your guests have. Okay.
When you, when you watched Harry Potter,
did you think that the owl was actually bringing the message to
Harry Potter at the beginning of the movie?
I mean, I actually, you believed it. I don't. Yeah.
I can't remember exactly. I mean, it's,
you bought into the story. Okay. You bought.
It's a great story though. Yeah.
Who doesn't like it? Who doesn't like that story?
Right.
It starts off with the owl raptor messenger,
bringing Harry the letter to take him back to Hogsworth.
Right.
And so we buy these stories.
And in the back to the yoga tradition at the end of yoga.
Do you remember what you did?
The last thing you did before you, at the very, very end.
I don't.
You laid flat. You can't forget that one.
Okay.
Shavasana Shavasana is the corpse pose.
By the way, your listeners right now, like screaming Derek,
you need to go back to yoga.
It's, it's the corpse pose.
You go to the land of the dead after you've had assistance from all
these animals in the same way as the shop shamanic tradition in
Siberia.
It's the same route. Okay.
And in the pillar of the tradition,
we have the characters, the hero.
He travels around the board and through time and space.
And he overlaps with animals.
He overlaps with a dolphin become a merman.
He overlaps with, of course, the raptor to become the avian or the
horse to become a center and all these mythic characters that we
have in the record.
So what's happening is that we today, I mean, you know, the,
the, the strip mall yoga for yogi.
Okay.
Is doing the exact same thing as the shamanic shamanic practitioners
in Siberia as do did people.
Tens of thousands of years ago.
In the upper palliathan.
And so it's the same tradition.
And the two nuances in that tradition among in the Abrahamic
tradition.
Okay.
They took off.
They took off the mask, the raptor and allegedly it was as we have
an art today.
We have a human faced with an angel with wings,
who is still that messenger.
It's the same character.
And this now, this is the one I'm going to put out there for Native
Americans.
This is in no way.
A point to that indigenous traditions.
And this is in no way.
Appearing to be the square tour in every way.
Anyway, but the, in the Native American traditions,
we have people who dress up as birds.
Okay.
It's a thing.
It is a pow wow is the pow wow is a dance competition.
Okay.
And in the pow wow and, and previous Native American traditions,
people dress up as birds to transform.
Okay.
In older times before weathermen,
Native Americans had a rain dance.
And the spiritual leader put adorned his wings to then speak to the
great mystery.
Okay.
That's a shamanic tradition.
It's the exact same.
Same trust on the tradition as people in Siberia that were going to
the actually similar such that they were in the Native American
tradition, they were speaking to the great mystery as opposed to a
previous shaman, whereas in the Siberian tradition,
they spoke to dead shaman.
Okay.
But still the both the great mystery.
Okay.
So we have this on multiple continents.
We have for tens of thousands of years back in time.
And it asks, we can ask the question.
If some people are speaking to a great almighty and most,
they are most recently in the last 4,000 years.
And other people around the world are not speaking to a great almighty.
And people tens of thousands of years ago were not speaking to a
great almighty.
They were transforming to the great mystery of sorts.
Are angels a new introduction?
Or are they something has always existed?
That's interesting because what you bring up makes me think of
animism.
I mean, we, you know,
you know,
we have a lot of people believe that primitive religious type of
human traditions were animistic.
And they're definitely incorporating nature and nature worship.
Animals are part of that,
which makes me think that the yoga we do today is really just a
modern conception of animism.
It's, it's a modern.
Right.
It is.
And it's okay.
Right.
Okay.
It's no different than the chicken dance.
Then watching Swan Lake and interpreting the human characters to
be birds.
It's, there's no difference between them.
That is the essence of what makes us human.
Right.
It's who we are.
If we can't do that, we're no, we're no different than chimps.
Right.
And I definitely would say, if you will tongue in cheek here,
that what we're not suggesting is that there's like a literal
spiritualistic in the literal sense necessity involved in these
actions.
If you're doing these things,
these are just great practices that we've always done that have been
healthy and good for us into our nature,
something we've always practiced,
but it doesn't mean that you literally have to believe in a
fundamentalist approach on these type of things.
There are Buddhists, for example, that are atheists,
yet they are tapping into what they believe to be the human
consciousness,
how to try and be selfless, a better human,
things like that.
So I point that out for people who might be watching who are already
going, is this going to be a program of spirituality or what is he
trying to get at?
Well, there's a reason why people believe these things.
And are they crazy or, or not?
And I like what you're doing here.
I mean, I'm not against people who have beliefs in things.
I personally am a naturalist and I think that almost anything,
if we don't know right now,
we might know a natural explanation in the future because
everything prior to that we've had explanations for.
That's just my opinion.
I'm definitely looking for a natural explanation to all.
Absolutely.
And when I'm using shamanism and animism interchangeably.
So animism is the root of a one root of shamanism.
Okay.
And so absolutely.
Have you ever said somebody is as strong as an ox,
smart as an owl, or eats like a pig?
Yes.
You have projected animism.
Right.
Okay.
And so it isn't our nature that we imitate animals to give us
strength to give us meaning.
The metaphor, metaphors.
And that's who we can't escape from us.
And so we, by the way, pigs don't eat like pigs.
Okay.
People have people walking around the houses.
They're actually quite intelligent animals.
I don't have one, but it's a thing. Okay.
They're like dogs. Okay.
And owls really aren't smart.
And I'm not sure if oxes are actually strong or just big.
But we,
it is who we are to project and gain strength from the animals,
whether it be yoga, whether it be, you know,
on a sports field or in, you know, intellectual society.
And it's absurd.
It's crazy.
It is absolutely nuts that we believe that.
And that nuttiness is no difference than someone saying they've heard
from an angel.
An angel told them to do this or that.
There really is no difference on Carl young.
I'm not a young in per se,
but I'm strong follower of young. Okay.
He's a brilliant man, absolutely brilliant man.
And most people in the audience,
if you're not familiar with the young,
you've been exposed to young through Myers Briggs tests.
Young developed the concept of intro expert expert,
a hit thinker or feeler.
And we use those in our common vernacular.
It's, it is mainstream science today.
Okay.
Young did a lot of other stuff.
And when you talk about the collective unconscious,
collective unconscious, a personal unconscious,
that is young.
That is his work.
We can go,
we can go for hours of ideas that young brought forward to the
popular consciousness.
And some of these ideas were in, you know,
ancient Hindus and so on,
but he brought forth the popular consciousness.
Now young, where did he get it all from?
Well, a few things.
One is he took that journey.
Okay.
He went to, you know, literally the land of the dead.
He had a moment,
a moment that many of us have had.
And you know,
people have had that moment because they have a group.
They have a look about them that they've been there.
Okay. It's a thing.
And you have, you have that look.
And many other people have that look.
Now,
young also had a helper.
Okay.
And his helper was called Philemon.
You want to guess what Philemon looked like.
A bird.
You're darn right.
He was his angel.
And his, and young's the red book, he actually,
he draws out who Philemon is.
Okay.
So young had a personal angel that he believed,
he truly believed, this isn't just, you know,
casual joke.
He truly believed that he was conversation with that angel.
Right.
Well, what he was really doing was he was having a conversation
with himself.
Right. That's,
I was hoping we were going to get somewhere because to be honest
with you, all right, so here, let me pause and go back.
So this is modern,
modern psychology, right?
This is the guy talking to that you today are using his stuff.
Okay.
I have to say something here, Bernie,
for those who are already going, hold on,
and I had this criticism I already wanted to bring up.
You're telling me guys,
talking to angels, right?
Having this spiritual invisible,
like my sister in law or me that in the past,
when I was a fundamentalist Christian was talking to God,
that I really was actually talking to God, right?
Let me pause because I want to say that that's not necessarily
what you're saying.
And so I started having a skepticism because you're like,
that's the same thing as if you say you eat like a pig or you're
doing yoga or something.
And I'm like, hold on.
I don't know if those are the same things,
but with what you're suggesting,
I must say as someone who was getting off heroin,
because I was a drug addict,
very, very intensely addicted to heroin.
I was shooting up when I went to get clean.
I cried like I literally in tears cried.
I knew I was going to die.
And I said to myself,
but I was praying if you will.
And I looked back and realized that the whole time it was me talking
to me.
But I was trying to think it was some,
it was this divine God and realize now,
whoa, I was really talking to myself.
Now, whatever that did,
it helped me achieve what I needed to,
to necessary to survive.
I say that to say,
even if you're a strict atheist naturalist watching this,
okay,
consider that psychologically there's some stuff here that is important.
If you're someone who's open-minded and you say,
well, maybe there is stuff going on that I'm not aware of.
Cool.
This is right in your alley.
You wouldn't have a problem with this.
But if you are an atheist still,
don't close off to this.
I'm telling you psychologically,
this can be true in a subjective reality to your own psyche.
If you will,
your own mind has such power and ability to make you think things.
That I'm okay with entertaining these ideas.
This is what makes us human.
You don't have to be such a strict naturalist,
atheistic person that there's no psychological things that you
can tap into to help yourself progress and project a world and
reality that may not be literally true,
but subjectively true in a way that you help yourself progress in
life and to better yourself.
We do it all the time.
The atheist naturalist like me,
but far more strict in his anti-theistic or anti-religious,
catches themselves getting into fiction and things like that.
And it's like, hold on, man, what are you doing?
That's what I'm saying.
Right.
So let's not be haters of the opposite side.
At the same time,
I do want people to try and look at reality more so because there
are some fundamentalists.
I think that it is harmful in some respects in the ways that I
came from the whole world.
You're dividing yourself.
There's only one faith through Jesus Christ.
No one can get to the father.
You don't believe like me.
You're going to hell.
Like I'm tired of that stuff.
I must admit that's harmful in my opinion.
I'm not saying I'm against them,
but that ideology is not something I favor.
And I do try my best to poke at it here on this show.
So I'm not against people who think there's something going on
or they're spiritual or they have a belief in the divine power
or something.
And then also the atheist,
I want them to kind of understand that you're not suggesting
there is a supernatural being.
You're saying look in the mirror, my friend.
And you are that being.
And so there's something powerful in that.
I really appreciate that, Bernie.
I had to spell that out for our audience though.
So they don't think you're coming off with some.
Nutty idea, if you will.
Even though you're, you don't,
you're not coming across trying to sell a religion here.
If you know what I mean,
you're not trying to say there's something you must believe.
And that's beyond naturalism and the human psyche.
Cause I think young had a similar thing.
Now he was a little more spiritual in some respects,
but he had a synchronicity and things like this.
That was really interesting.
He had a few ideas. Okay.
And so, and so that's why I don't concern myself with a pure young
again.
But I do believe today,
I'm here to promote the church of Derek Lambert and the true faith
and all that sort of stuff.
Okay.
Now you,
now you said that you've, you have, you didn't go to hell or you're
not going to go to hell or that sort of stuff.
The fact is that you have been to hell through your experience.
You went to hell and you, you faced yourself in the mirror in the,
you know, in the now deceased.
You come face to mirror was the Michael Jackson. Okay.
You sing this song.
It's a brilliant song and that we're not being on Michael Jackson
these days, but
man in the mirror,
the man in the mirror.
It's that, that is when you come to face your health.
And I had that experience,
I had a similar experience to yours,
but not through drugs,
not through drugs that I took.
But I had sat,
I had a major injury,
sciatic pain on both sides.
And I was, I mean, I literally thought I was going to die.
And I'm alone.
And I, I went into like a Shavasana yoga state.
I mean, the, the, the debt, the corpse pose where you,
you don't feel your body connected to anything.
Like on the bed.
As I, in my case, you become weightlessness.
So I had that actual spirit experience.
And my vision changed.
And I was, I was, I was trying to,
this was about five, six years ago.
I was working on this project.
And I had these cave images in front of me.
And my vision changed such that things that I couldn't see before,
it completely clear,
but I had the wrong glasses on.
I had my distance glasses on.
So everything should have been blurry,
but it became clear,
which demonstrate to me in my mind,
first that vision is, is partly,
it's chemical in your head.
Okay.
There's something about that.
You, your vision can be corrected chemically because this is what
actually happened.
And it lasts for about four days.
That everything was completely clear that I didn't need glasses for
absolutely anything.
But then it changed.
I went back to my normal back, my glasses.
But more importantly, another thing happened.
Is that I had that.
I heard the voice.
You know, I heard that voice.
That spoke to me about my deepest,
my deepest, my deepest, my deepest,
my deepest, my deepest, my deepest, my deepest,
my deepest, my deepest, my deepest,
my deepest, my deepest fear.
And my deepest fear was I was, you know,
I was out of a divorce.
I have a daughter who was in high school.
What's going to happen to my daughter?
And I was the primary parent.
And she's in college and I'll probably still the primary.
But anyway, the, and my,
my deepest fear came to me and I presented myself on it.
And I answered it myself.
I presented myself on it and I answered it myself out of the middle of nowhere said that I'm going to be okay, and she's going to be okay.
And whatever happens to me, she will be just everything will go things will go well for in life.
Despite everything I've done as a parent or whatever, and society is done. And so I'd let go at that moment, my deepest fear.
And the voice came from inside me. Okay, so St. Paul that wrote Damascus, he heard that he said that he heard the voice from, and he saw the light.
Oh, by the way, I saw the light too. Okay, but the light wasn't out there. The light was in here. Okay, it was, and that's the light we hear about when we did you have the light by the way in your experience in your head.
I don't recall seeing a bright, you know, you know, because the light then affects the vision, you'd know it. So when you hear these stories of people having the light inside them this light of mind all this sort of stuff.
They're not talking about, you know, praying and church or, you know, you know, a heroin trip.
The source of that is and is there is actually internal light, which is people believe to be spiritual, but it's not it's a cycle. It's a physical chemical.
And it, it helps us to survive it resets us.
The pain goes away in my case the static nerve pain ended for a few stop for a few hours.
So the body to prevent stroke, and as dying, there's a mechanism that stops that puts us on reset.
And that reset is what helps us survive in the most tragic situations, always be dying all the time. And that situation is the
I believe is the same that St. Paul of the road to the masses, and you can go through our history, people have these experiences and mostly become profits. And I'm not a prophet.
And I never want to be a prophet. No, we still call me profit. Only Derek Lambert should be called a prophet.
The new profit, but the it is a it is a physical chemical response. It doesn't come from out there. It comes from within here. It resets your system.
But that throughout history, this has been called a, you know, we're talking to God and God saves you a lot sort of stuff.
A, someone very famous on modern times had this experience and she tells a story. It's Jane Goodall, the primatologist, and she was, she was married, she's married a few times.
And her husband dies of cancer and they tried everything possible to solve this. She was, he was the lover of life. He dies in a very tragic death. What cancer itself.
And she's, she's a huge despair. She goes back to tend to the forest to work with chimpanzees. And one day it's raining, and she follows the chimpanzees into the cover.
And the rain stops and a light comes out and light comes through the sky. And she, she said in her mind, she could, she could understand the language of the birds and the insects had a voice that spoke to her.
And in her mind, she said that she could understand the chimpanzees from the perspective of the chimpanzees from another animal being.
And she, if you look at Jane Goodall, since that moment, she has the glow. She had that same spiritual, what would people, she, she believes it's spiritual experience.
I would, you know, we can use that word, it's okay, we just can't say it's a spirit from God.
So I'm not sure.
It's an experience that's subjective to that person that we know they experienced. I mean, I'm not just because I don't believe in a God. And just because I'm a naturalist, and I think there's probably a natural explanation for almost anything and everything, even though I'm open minded
the possibility. I'm just not convinced does not mean that people don't experience things. So I need to put that there for anyone who understands that you can call it a hallucination, or whatever.
If you go for it, you could say that's a chemical reaction. I would agree with you.
That doesn't mean that it wasn't important and necessary, just like I'm going to probably hallucinate when I really go to die. When I really go to die, my brain is going to try and protect me.
It's going to probably open the pineal gland, send out dimethyl tryptamine.
I'm going to experience chemicals that are going to flood and rush my head to protect me from whatever's experience I'm going through. And I'm going to enter a place, hopefully a good one.
Who knows in terms of that experience to protect me when I'm dying.
Is that a lie? No, but it is subjective. It doesn't mean it's true universally across the board. You must believe my experience is true or I talked to animals where I know the language of birds and I know the language of bugs.
I've experienced something. And oftentimes when we can't understand it, we attribute it to the divine. And that's because we don't understand it. And maybe we're learning more in the sciences we have today to understand this is something in the human psyche.
This is something we as humans experience. And I think we're closer to understanding what that is instead of having to say, Oh, it was Krishna. It was Jesus.
You know, we are coming closer to try and really understand what this is, but it doesn't mean you should discredit the experience itself.
I just want to try and understand more what's going on in a natural and how can we explain this, right? Are we going to keep throwing it out to well Krishna really did that or Jesus really came to me.
I'm not saying that at all, you know,
In fact, in the youngest case it was film on the angel, angel character. Yeah, so the, it's it's an interesting phenomenon that we we perceive it differently today than people did in ancient times.
You know, the ancient times when mostly stores are written, they were herders, they were sheep herders, right? I mean, right.
And that is nothing that take take nothing away from sheep herders. Okay.
And, but that is the science of the sheep herder. Now back to your, your, you just said something that you went down a road of what is what happens to you in the end.
And this is my perspective. Yeah.
Whether you believe that your eternity as someone's not you, but as someone's a theist and their eternity is that they're going to sing and dance with the angels, or you believe that your eternity is that you're going to see your
children and hug your wife and see your, you know, who's lit your living wife, or your, your, your friends and being the bar partying over, you know, a winning game of the Portland timbers or something.
You, that's your eternity, whether it's five seconds or gazillion years.
I believe that people should have established their eternity statement. And because what you don't want to have as your attorney is that, you know, my, you know, I was beaten as a child or, you know, I was bullied as an adult or whatever the story is.
Okay. That's not what you want to go with you in the end, whatever your end is, you want to go with what makes you happy, because you want your end to be happy.
And so when you when you face that final moment and every most people they just don't like just die right, you know, these days, people have some period that they, they go off into a.
There's a, there's a period, there's a, it could be seconds, it could be minutes, could be hours, it could be days that they know the end is there. Okay. And I actually thought the end was there for me.
But the establish your statement, whether it be in the dance with the angels, or, you know, being the, you know, smiling children laughing children that you need to people need to decide that before.
And it makes no difference if you're an atheist or atheist, because how you decide what your existence is, and make the final minutes or hours or days of your existence.
The best they possibly could be regardless of what pain you're in. But think about, you don't want to die with, you know, concept of, you know, you're getting hit by a car, and you're laying in the hospital.
Then you're in pain and people crying around you, you want to die with the idea that, you know, you're in environment of your choosing.
And so it's, it's, you know, you, right now you have more, your listeners is raising their hands and screaming and pulling at the hair and saying, Hey, this guy's, this guy's kind of push one over on us.
Absolutely not. Choose your vision statement. Now, going back in time, we talked, we talked about how, where does hell come from. That's pretty important concept.
Because in the pellet, the tradition, the hero, we can see the whole story where through the cave images where he comes where he goes and all this sort of stuff.
And he never actually goes to hell.
He never goes to hell. He transforms psychologically through the animals that help him take him to another place on here with his hero's journey.
That's what he does. He never goes to hell. And we find these same images recap the same story, the recast in ancient traditions.
So the story that I'm telling a pelvic tradition is the story of Hercules. Okay, his labors and the final labor of Hercules, he goes to Hades, the underworld, and he has to retrieve the cerebus, the three headed monster, three headed dog.
Okay.
And very interesting when he goes into Hades, he sees his children, the children that he had himself slayed.
Yep.
In a drunken stupor. And that's part of the myth.
Because of another God, but yeah.
And so he, he sees his children and he doesn't say, you know, I'm sorry that they're cast at hell. He says, I'm looking forward to see you here in my, when my time comes, when I return.
So in the, in the tradition as Hercules saw, which goes back to the upper paleolithic, it's not going to hell. It's back going to another place, another dimension.
And he goes and he captures the Cerberus, which is not allowed to leave Hades. And hey, the Cerberus, he takes it to, to frighten his, his cousin uncle, who is, he's been sending on these, these journeys are really supposed to kill him along the way.
But through these journeys, he really learns about himself and how he can be a better person.
But the Hades Hades, of course, is the brother of Zeus and Poseidon.
And they're in three realms. There's the sky realm, there's the terrestrial, the sea realm, and there's the underworld.
And when we look at the, we look at these caves, we find the same animals in the same places as they are in the terrestrial world.
So we have a map. Okay, we have in the north part of the panel or to the right side of this El Castillo cave panel.
We have the Spanish animals in the Iberian Peninsula, the ones in the middle are marine animals, and the ones that viewers left are African animals.
So we travel across time and space and this whole thing. Okay, important concept.
And this is all below ground, the cave. So there's three realms. Okay, there's the, there's the realm at the terrestrial world that you, you have that as a mirror that is a mirror of what goes below the ground.
But there's also the third realm, which is the constellations. All these animals, Hercules are the constellation, all these animals as he interacts with on his journey are in the night skies, the constellations that guide him on his way.
So the man is the man to the far right is Hercules, the constellation next to him is a, I get all the ego, then you have Pegasus the horse, you go down the, you have a dolphin which became Pisces at the far end, you have Orion and next to Orion you have
King's major, the serious the dog star, you go around the whole panel you find all the Greek constellations.
So you have three realms, you have the terrestrial realm, you have the underworld, and you have the sky world. Okay, none of those are actually hell.
None of them, they are all part of the, the physical experience that exists. And hermetic tradition. No, I'm not, I'm not her, I'm not hermetic. Okay, but in hermetic tradition, you have as above so below.
How many realms are there if there's as above so below.
I mean, technically I've always thought of it as terrestrial and celestial, but if there's an interesting thing I have to make a comment, it could be what you're saying all three below terrestrial and celestial because I had a recent friend and this might tie into this you might find
I'm not trying to rabbit show but I think it's important. He does research on the flood and he mentioned how in Egypt, when they dug down in these queries to build the pyramids.
They found lots of sand dollars in the ground and in the King's tomb and the Great Pyramid, there is stars five pointed stars on the ceiling.
And they're, they're exactly in the shape of a sand dollar which was discovered in the quarries down below. So it makes me wonder if there's these three layers you're talking about as above so below as if like the heavens reflect the underworld, and everything in between is kind of in this thing I don't know if that's what you're getting at but I think
And after the age of the pyramids they went to the valley of the tombs, the value of tombs, they built that they dug the tombs into a mountain. Okay, so they created caves.
And so you have the, you have the below you have the trust to road and you have the sky world.
So the as above so below to have it as to have something above you and have something below you requires there to be three realms. Right.
And in the hermetic people and astrologers no sorts, they talk about well that the earth is the same as the sky. Well that's not what as above so below means it doesn't it doesn't mean that it means just three.
And so they're, they're, they're forgetting that there is, or they don't recognize or whatever that there is no this underworld is Cape World, which is the like which is the land of the dead.
Now in the, in the ancient Israelite tradition that she all was was was their land of the dead. Okay, and it wasn't a bad place was just a dark place is where you get buried to because you know, that's just what they did.
People got buried.
It wasn't until we got into the New Testament that we actually find a, you know, fiery horrible death. Okay.
And one of the clear the early one early ones was was Matthew 610 on earth as it is in heaven, but more importantly, is Luke 16 where the power of Lazarus and the rich man.
And the rich man goes to the, you know, the fiery hell, the flames of Hades, the flames of Hades, and the Lazarus is taken away by angels to have it.
Okay, this is really the first accounting of heaven and hell there's two different places that are good and bad.
Whereas in the Pilate tradition.
And I would say in her medics to that the, the three realms were in fact the same realms. Okay, they were the same place.
And they're all it was, you know, a mirror up and a mirror down.
So this idea of that people are going to a hell in another place doesn't exist. It was made up.
Right. It wasn't made up by the ancient Israelites. It was made up by whoever Matthew and Luke sourced from right actually not Matthew whoever sourced allegedly Matthew and Luke's work right so that people wrote their stuff after their time.
It's a, it's not true. In fact, it's actually a mistake. It's a historical anthropological anthropological cultural mistake that the hell and heaven are these are these good and bad places.
I want to throw an idea out there just to get your thoughts.
And Dr. Robert and price that I have on, he believes that there is a connection because I know that Bart Ehrman believes an annihilation view might fit the New Testament but Bart or Dr. Price says he thinks that Zoroastrian origins found their way into this kind of tradition because
the first is Zoroastrian would be Persian and the Pharisees the term for Pharisee is Parcy and some say that's the Persian.
So the Persian Jews may have used their kind of connotation because in their afterlife, or they have some type of mythos that when people die the righteous will bathe in the in the hot fire or in the liquid fire as if it's like just warm milk but the
unrighteous will be in suffering torment in that fire. So I don't know if that might be a source that's there but I do know the church from what I understand even I've even seen ex priest or they seem to be active duty priest that said the church use this control people because they wanted to frighten them in such
Of course it is it's all about the money, follow the money. Now interesting you brought in so Zoroastrian we're really talking about, you know, the greater Iraq area, the main angels so.
Okay, right. Ishtar and ishtar was the was actually female. And, but there's a second one as well. And so this idea of angels that are not that are into meters to the divine.
It's all the same. It's all in the same mix. These are the same people.
Interesting. There was some important or just outside of Portland, Oregon, and I saw in the news the other day that there was a exorcism by Catholic.
It wasn't they weren't precisely there are bishops. And they were in both Seattle and San Francisco.
And the exorcism was to get rid of the bad, you know, juju related to the, you know, black lives matter. I mean, on the, on the side of black lives matters right okay okay.
And all this sort of stuff. So they, they literally exercised two cities, Seattle and San Francisco, people can Google it they can find a line.
What is out there I started I started Oregon line went to the Oregon for here Portland. And so people do still to do this stuff and the ritual was, it was a Latin, you know, they didn't Latin pain, but it was an exorcism.
It was an exorcism. It was an exorcism was the exercise of that spirits. That is absolutely no difference than the in the Siberian shamans who, you know, traveled to the world of the dead to ask for help from the prophets.
There's no difference. Okay.
The difference is that the in the in the Catholic, the Catholicism, they believe that there's.
There's a one God okay there's one guy, but in the in these all these other traditions, there's no one God it doesn't it doesn't exist, even in ancient Egypt, there's only a short period of time that they had one God in the record, there were, there are many gods and he had the had the
they needed, which were all these animal, of course, all these people animal beings. So they were, it was a transition period between the caveman up a parallel ethic through to let's say ancient, you know, the ancient Greeks, because in the ancient
Egyptians, their gods were all half men, half, half other animal beings.
I mean, really, wouldn't you agree though the exorcisms.
You know, I can get someone praying over a house right there was a woman that I am part of the cult that I was in. At one point, she used to come over and anoint the house and try and cast out spirits from our house and she was in my mom had angel figurines and she
was like, you know, those are spirit things you need to get rid of right like overly just overboard in my opinion but anyway she she was doing all this stuff and wouldn't you agree though that like exorcisms on that kind of level with that kind of mentality can be harmful
because here you have someone with schizophrenia let's say they need medical assistance and you think you're going to cast an evil actual spirit.
You're really not taking consideration this person might not mental health problems probably play a role. You know what are your thoughts on that kind of stuff. Okay, that's a good question I can tell you this is this.
This is a true story. Okay, absolutely true story. And most people say this can't be true. I met this guy few years ago was probably about five or six years ago.
He was in the business of exercising detached spirits. Okay, it's what he did. It's what he did for love he was he was a left one junior during his life and then he then he went to hypnotism school, and then he went this line of work, and most of the people
that interact with its own interactive online this is long for COVID. And most of the people that came to him, they had, you know, chairs turned over in the house tables upside down, you know, wrecked in the kitchen and the whole story that you know, pull the guys
right. But the other thing that come now between all of them is where they found that detached spirit in a bar.
They found that attached spirit in the bar. These people alcoholics. Okay, alcoholics. And so that they found this attached spirit in the bar, which wrecked the house.
Now all these people before they get to this guy, they've been to doctors.
And the doctors can't help these they can't help these people, because they won't they won't admit their alcoholics they believe that the test spirits, and you can't go down the road of a until you've gotten rid of the idea that the touch spirits, the poltergeist in your house.
So what he does is, he tells them that he believes they are detached they are spirits that are haunting them.
And that. And by the way, these people they go to the bar, they can see the detached spirits and stole next to them is this is like a, it's a Wow, they need to detach attached I'm sorry attached spirits.
Okay, it's attached to them. Right. They're really the own demons no really different or their own angels in the case of Carl Jung with his film on right it was his angel, same sort of thing.
So, I asked him, I said, do you really believe in this. And he said, yes.
The guy who does the exercise is the guy who does the exercise, but the guy who's also a trained hypnotist. Right. He said yes, because if anybody believed anybody thought that I didn't believe it.
They couldn't be treated.
Huh.
There's an interesting I must tell you an interesting parable if you will on this that I thought was interesting. Have you heard of the wise man and the rooster.
No.
I'll give you a summation a king's son goes batshit crazy. He literally loses his senses.
And the king needs someone who's got wisdom who can, you know, cure or do something to help his son. He's got a lot of money and so he comes in he says I'll pay anything to help me get this, your son, get my son back to sanity is insane.
This man says, okay, well, you need to work with me. All right, you need to really, really trust me. Okay. So he says, okay, I will. And so he, the sun is like a clucking rooster.
And he's running around the house acting like a rooster, literally butt naked underneath the kitchen table just doesn't want to move and he's a rooster.
So the wise man one day just takes his clothes off goes underneath and starts clucking with him for a while.
And he becomes like this insane person clucking like the rooster. And finally one day after days of being naked and clucking and acting like he is just like the insane person.
They, they offer some food or something I can't remember the order of this but anyway, he ends up saying sure and he puts some clothes on or something because it was cold and the guy was what are you doing you're a rooster he goes, Hey, just because I'm a rooster doesn't mean I can't put a little bit of
clothes on, you know. And so, so does the insane man he just, you know, he's got a point it's a little chilly, I think I'll put the clothes on. So then the next thing and they bring apples and fruit and food in and he goes hey we're roosters we don't need fruit and he's just because I'm a rooster.
And anyway, the point of the story is every level at which he became what the person was just to psychologically bring the person out.
That's the moral of the story and so I tell drug addicts that I help who struggle with addiction. I am you. I came from where you are. I know what it's like I do the same thing for fundamentalist Christians I totally understand.
It is my opinion if you wanted to cut to the chase what do you think Derek.
I honestly think it's psychological. I think it's natural. I think there's some chemical imbalance. I do think there's something there. I what I'm an alcoholic recovering alcoholic as well I couldn't stop drinking alcohol, drug addiction, addictions just something my whole family runs through my father alcoholic my sister was a
pathetic my brother's been on every drug under the sun and he's seven months clean right now like we've all dealt with these type of things and so and there's all sorts of issues that run on both sides of family long and you lived in western
eastern Washington eastern Washington at some point what else is there to do. I mean well that's a good point out of out of deer and elk season what else is there to do. I wasn't using there I was actually using in North Carolina.
But I just say that to say like been there and so if I were to explain what I think it is I think there's an easy natural explanation, but I think that there can be harm also if we don't if we think there's just a spiritual explanation.
I think recently there's a gentleman who was interviewing a Catholic priest on exercising spirits. What if it's not what if this guy really is suffering with a real mental illness and he thinks well no I can come and exercise it I guess they have filters to try and see if it's mental
I don't know. I mean the priest has a filter like they have ways of trying to filter out if this is a give a rat's ass it doesn't matter for them if the person it's because all things can resolve through God.
It's like the pedophile priest. You know it went for it.
There was a special on HBO and I can't remember what it was came about two years ago, and they went through the history of the pedophile priest.
And they, there's a period of time it was years that they sent all the pedophile priest to an island, an island therefore they knew about pedophile priest was a world light knowledge up to the pope.
Okay, and few days after it was like within four days after the HBO special came out, the priest pope resigned.
So it was tied to that. And they sent they sent them to the island to be to refine God or something, and that for certain amount of time then they sent them back into where they, you know, to new parishes.
Okay, and so the concept that they have, you know, a filter to send the next person on to be a, you know, the schizophrenia is absolutely absurd.
And as evidence through the pedophile priest saga is all answers can be all things can be answered through God through the through the intermediary of the priest, or the, you know, praying to the prophets the dead, basically the dead shaman right.
Right.
And so who then actually dead shaman who that who speak to the, the great almighty.
Depending on the tradition, right, because depending on the tradition. Yeah, so do you want you never, you know, how do I end up talking to this guy who was a hypnotist by the way you're doing the same thing you do the same thing that he's doing.
Okay, you, you, you are a true believer, and that you're being a true believer, they believe in you.
Right.
That's what it is. So is based on the same principle. So the.
So I was, I was an organizer for a mountain bike meetup group and meet up as a, you know, social organization network sort of thing. I had hundreds many hundreds of members in my group. One day it was right.
It was raining ride with rides were called off. And I was like, what the heck am I going to do. So I found this guy as it wasn't, it wasn't announced as what I expressed it as I explained with something else I was the only one that showed up for this up this other meetup.
And so I asked the guy, well, what do you do. So instead of talking about what the meetup was supposed to be about, we talked about this concept was up.
But he was a true believer. And as I said, it only works if you believe so the priests and other clerics around the world, they can't, they can't influence their followers, unless they are true believers, because it doesn't work.
It doesn't work in the Trump Donald Trump is a true believer. That's why that's why he has all those millions of people following him. And I'm not saying it's good about Donald Trump.
I'm right. He's a true believer. Because otherwise he can't tell his story. Whether or not the politician believe whether story is true or not. It's what they believe to be true.
And, and so when people go they go riffing off and all this sort of stuff. It's coming out of their personal unconscious. It is their truth.
I'm going to say like when you say I'm a believer, this is no ontological sense of a spirit or beings and things like that.
I'm a firm believer I'm on the right path in terms of the mythology stuff that I'm diving into and a naturalistic explanation being you're a naturalist you know exactly what I'm saying.
It's a natural explanation to all these things, even though our experience can seem supernatural. Oftentimes I think there are natural explanations, but, or I think there probably is one for everything.
We just may not understand all of them. Also, the other thing I was going to say is as an addict drug addict.
I know from experience, like the belief of knowing that I was insane I couldn't stop using drugs even when I said I was going to stop I couldn't stop drinking alcohol.
I'd wake up and forget the night before not know how I even began to drink like just missing parts of my memory from the insanity.
I know exactly what that's like so people who listen to me, they can believe in me because they know from my words from my experience that I truly have experienced things that they're saying and the same goes for the Christian worldview.
Everything that I experienced as a Christian that the emotions the all those things I really can go there and relive them for them to know they can trust me and believe in me and what I'm saying to consider what I'm saying and maybe like the rooster.
Follow me in the path out of that. And so anyway, I don't want anyone to think that when you say I'm a believer that they think that this is some woo woo strange thing but in the sense that I just described it 100%.
I'm very careful though when I just like lump me in I'm no different than the fundamentalist Christian down the road in the way that they think I do think that this is the proper way of going about things I think it's it's, we're leaving some of the superstition in a way that can be harmful we're
trying to progress still using the same mechanisms we have our brains experiences that we have, but trying to funnel them in a proper way I think is better I mean that's that's absolutely.
Well, what we've, I'm not sure of proper way, but really a different way, so different moves so the atheists has moved from the angels to Harry Potter.
Okay, okay. So we immerse ourselves in popular popular media. So as to find another distraction to find it another, you know, an opioid of the Harry Potter is, you know, is an opioid of the people and it just is okay.
And that is not a bad thing. Okay, right. It's not a bad thing. It is, is escape from the normal and that escape from the normal has been through myths for I can show 34,000 years ago, the same myths that the ancient Greeks towns that we have today.
So we need those we need those myths, we need those stories. And the question that becomes, who's in charge who has the power over those stories.
This is really it becomes about. So if the Catholic tradition, the Catholics, major national international force.
Their myth brings them money and brings them power. I mean, indisputable Catholics will, you know, the pope will agree the same thing he'll just say well it's all good we give money to the poor to and we help this and that and you know, you know, all sort of stuff but bottom line it's about power it's about influence.
But they have to keep those myths to keep the power influence, otherwise people wouldn't follow them. And we believed in myths for forever.
And it's so important, because if we didn't have the myths, we'd be just like chimpanzees, because the myths help us to join together towards a common goal.
We may not like the common goal, you know, but the common, but it is the common goal that has brought us forward over hundreds of thousands, if not millions of years. Okay.
The belief in that the shamanic bird man in these caves goes to the underworld, the land of dead and brings it and brings back information takes a spiritual journey was of value in that time, because it brought people around a common goal.
Okay, and that they were all afraid of the shaman, they all followed his teachings, they all followed his direction, and his direction just wasn't that he went on this journey, but his journey was he was a timekeeper.
He said, this is when we go fishing this is when we go hunting. This is your job. That's, that's their job.
All the direction the tribe came through these shamanic leaders. And so they, we wouldn't exist today without their influence.
It's a, it was a dark road. Okay, because who knows what all the horrible nasty things happened during that time, that time period, which they had their own, they probably had their own inquisitions that
gruesome things probably happen to people we have no record of it but let's face it when there's power this control.
That killed. Okay, it's a thing.
And people are subjugated, but it was through the long term of that over 10s of thousands of years that we develop common mythos common psychology that not only brought tribes together in from these caves, but brought nations together and brought continents together.
And this now we, you know, the, we have the United Nations, which is its own myth, right. The myth is everybody gets to show up and vote and we have no wars with that. That's absolutely absurd, because we know war still happen and people don't keep to the rules.
But the United Nations is a myth. It's an important myth that we everybody has a seat at the table to give their voice and people can, you know, instead of lining up their troops on the border, they line up their, their diplomats in, you know, in the big room,
in the assembly room. And we, the myth, these myths are misused, often misused. Right. That's what I'm trying to get, but they keep us from fighting with our neighbors.
There's a unity that comes from mythology and what I'm, I guess what my goal is is to try and formulate a myth where we know we're not believing in this fiction in the sense that people have that has caused such division.
I get uniting, but maybe we need a new myth, a universal myth, a myth that isn't, you must believe in Jesus Christ to, to get to heaven. If not, you're outside of this circle, buddy, get out of here. You're not my friend.
I'm a watch from my, my post in heaven while you're tormented, which is ridiculous, which is the point of why you're bringing up heaven and hell and how the origins of hell didn't even, it's not even a thing, the way that people.
I like that. But I mean, like we need to, we're all going to have, and when you say myth, I wanted to find that term for people. I think you're saying a story. There's a.
Yeah, it's a story that we believe.
It's not.
Unconsciously, we believe us.
Right. You're not saying it in the same derogatory sense people use myth to say, oh, it means fiction and it's a lie and it's not true. You're saying it's a story and you, you understand that story to be a subjective story that a lot of time, oftentimes you are believing that there may be
an internalized explanation of some traveling as a human through life or a journey, a hero's journey, as you described with Joseph Campbell, originally, I want people to understand that because you use the term myth a lot, and there's different ways people use it.
I think that there's the myths becoming literal interpretations and the, the, the hermeneutics that are used to like create these divisive religions and cults that separate people from their own family members at times.
Oh, you don't believe like me. You can't even be part of my family. That's harmful. I want to rid the world of those type of things in some way by educating people, not to go out and forcefully tell people you can't worship things.
I want them to be educated enough to realize, hey, that's not helpful. That's not good. I understand it unites those who believe upon the same key goal, and it might be helpful from the mindset in the cult that this is what unifies us, but it separates us from the rest of the world.
When can we have a global myth, like Harry Potter, that we know isn't literally true but can teach us the values of humanity on how to treat a human who's black, white, green, yellow, purple, blue, gay, straight, you name it, and love them for being them and unite upon that myth,
knowing that it's a story, but it's a uniting story that we don't literally get lost into the literalist explanation of.
I mean, I'm sure no matter what, there's a saying and I'm just going to throw a Christian one out there. If Jesus was here today, he healed two men. One was blind and the other man was blind, but he healed him with mud.
The other man, he healed him with no mud. He healed both of them. You'd have mudites and anti mudites. It's just humanity to be divisive.
Correct.
There's a mythology, though, that unites us and I love.
So says the prophet, Derek Lambert.
Join my cult.
I respect what you're saying. I love this.
I rabbit-trolled you so hard off the path, but it's relevant. Everything you said was so relevant and beautiful.
I didn't know how to take you, right? I'm like, I'm reading. He's an actualist. I didn't know how to interpret you.
And to be honest, even this show helps spell it out for me that you're a human. You're not a know-it-all.
You're not trying to say that everybody's wrong and everybody's right or this is the right path, but I do appreciate what you bring.
And I think everyone who's watching this show can read more that you're not close.
You're not running around attacking people who do believe things either.
I think we're all crazy.
I think we are all crazy.
But we need the craziness. That's why we exist today. That's how we've gone for hundreds of thousands of years and that we can do things and cooperate on projects.
Because we have to believe in things that aren't there.
Democracy that doesn't define what you mean.
So things that aren't there.
Going back to the United Nations. The United Nations is an organization found on the belief that everybody has a voice. Everybody has a seat and a vote at the table.
It's not true. It just totally isn't true.
And that we have entirely, you know, New World, New World where everybody gets long, you know, red, white, blue, whatever, green.
And it's just, it just, it's an absolute myth.
Democracy today.
You know, Bernie Sanders and the Koch brothers have completely different views of democracy.
The Koch brothers believe that every dollar is a vote Bernie Sanders believes that every person has a vote.
Well, in this election, what's going to happen. It was believed that Biden was going to clean like totally clean up blue wave, because he had the most money.
And the polls were that they factored it in. He had the most money. And it turned out this is pretty this whole thing is pretty slim. Whoever. Okay, I'm going to, I'm going to call it the election right now.
I'm not bit by the way I'm not a, I'm apolitical on this channel.
Okay, so I'm going to call it the election right now based on all the data and the polls and my analysis. Okay, it's Biden. Okay, now we move on.
And the concept is that we believe that, you know, all the force or the money that went into the campaigns would matter and that would be that was our truth.
And what we learned in the last few days is that it has nothing had nothing to do with the money, and that the Trump camp is still alive and well and Biden has had the has had so far, the largest number of Americans voting for him in history.
And Trump has the second largest number of people voting for him in history. And the people voted for either one of the two, either of those have completely different truths about America.
Right. Completely different truths, and very similar to the Koch brothers versus versus Bernie Sanders.
So these are myths that as long as we all believe our truth that it's all going to work out in the end, that our voice will be heard, and that the, you know, if, so if you're, if you're a Trump fan it doesn't work out this year, you could run four years, or your
senator is going to make up, make it up the slack, or your, your assembly or your local politicians.
If you believe that you're like, okay, well, it's all going to work out because I'm still covered.
But that's a myth, it's completely a myth, because it's something you're leading yourself to believe to work towards a common goal. So this, we have myths in today's world that we are right before us that are no different than the burning bush.
People walking across water, or whatever the story was, you know, that was left to us.
But wouldn't you specify the myth of antiquity, and maybe maybe you interpret it differently than the way I've understood this to be understood is that these myths and antiquity are of supernatural.
They take it to a place that doesn't happen like just one example, you know, fish swallowing a human in the depths of the sea for three days and three nights.
Also on the pellet the cave image, that is actually the man in the belly of the whale is in fact on an image.
And then by the way, I'm not denying that this may have met, like a metaphor allegorical interpretation, I'm 100% on board with seeing this is possibly a celestial sign.
This might have some deeper meaning.
My point is, people believe a real fish swallowed a man for three days and three nights, a guy literally rose from the dead after three days.
It's a different mythology to me than saying I believe my political stance.
They're not invoking something beyond the natural and in that kind of mythos that's all I'm saying wouldn't you agree that those two different terms are understood.
So this is what I will say is that they're both towards the same aim of people keep of bringing people together for a common goal.
Would you agree though with me.
So by the way, the first supernet, so all I'm going to go with all those most of the biblical stories go to a much deeper root, and they were part of shamanic tradition where people, he wrote, he actually in the image we can see the man is in the belly of the whale, but he's never happened.
No, no different than the man who overlaps with the dolphin become a merman.
Right. It's that they came up with stories, both in prehistoric times, which they evolved and changed in ancient times that were to keep a good story, you have to have a good story.
And the goal is the same is to have a common story, a common myth that people will follow.
The politics are doing the same thing today.
It's the same thing. It's the exact same thing.
I see what you're saying.
I whether it's supernatural or it's an or CNN versus, you know, Fox News, it's the same thing.
I get what you're saying.
Okay.
Otherwise, otherwise you'd be fighting with your neighbors every day.
You wouldn't trust you wouldn't trust the bus driver that he's not going to ride off her cliff.
You wouldn't trust the shopkeeper that you're going to get short changed every time.
I kind of needed the definition.
That's all because it was.
Yeah.
Oh, I mean, like when I would say it's the same fun.
We not only do we need to believe, sorry, but we have to believe because if we don't believe, we be at war with each other all the time.
Have you ever worked like for a big company, big company, you know, hundreds of big and in a big company, people become, they become believers, right?
You don't stay with a big company unless you're a believer.
The company, right?
You don't stay in that company unless you're a believer because you have to have a common mythos that we are doing the right thing because people in big companies often do the wrong thing.
It just, it just happens.
Okay.
People get fired for the wrong reasons and everybody gets getting up on them, you know, to stay with the company to keep the company lying to keep the company going, even though they knew damn well that person get fired for, you know, discrimination or one way or the other.
I mean, it's it happens every second of every day.
Okay.
It's a thing.
Hey, can I confess on air? I'm literally recording. I got to confess to you something.
Okay.
Okay. I lost my right to vote many years ago when I was in active addiction. I lost my right.
Eventually my record to be expunged and things will work out for me.
I want to say that that gave me time not only to deconvert out of the strict literalist fundamentalist Christianity that I was in to the mythology and exploring these things with a much more opened conscious, if you will, and aware of things I never would have interpreting
some ways I never would have. And I say that to say, I have avoided politics on purpose because I personally feel when I it's so tribalistic to me.
And it's so to me it feels like a mythology like a religious system.
And I have a distaste for it.
I understand why both sides say what they say.
I'm not educated in it. I don't know the ins and outs. I don't really get into it because there's so much division and split and hatred.
The Trumpers hate the Lib tards and the Lib the liberals hate the fanatical, you know, and all the other derogatory terms, and it's so much.
I cannot even find myself wanting to get involved into it.
I'm with you.
But you use the key word you said tribal.
Right Portland, Oregon is a tribe. We are, you know, we're, it's called out in the news. Well, prior to, you know, four days ago, it was called out every day in the news where you heard about Portland, Oregon.
Okay. And we are a completely different tribe than people in Alabama. We accept that.
Right.
And so, but we all come together towards a through our elections come to a common tribe.
We should.
We should come to the United States of America. And we have alliances with the Canada and, and, and Mexico through NAFTA.
So we, and that becomes another tribe and then of course, you know, the European EU is its own tribe right the age.
Japan Korea have their own alliances with China and Thailand and so forth.
And we're just different tribes. Our tribes all come together at the United Nations.
Well, all those tribes aren't really real, but we believe themselves to be true. And we need so we need those stories to keep us have tribes so we don't, you know, kill neighbors, you know, to believe to believe that, you know, the next person we see is going to murder us.
We need these myths. We need these beliefs in what isn't real. Okay. Our currency isn't real. Okay. It isn't real. It's, it's completely made.
The US government, you know, made up three, three, three, two, three trillion dollars this past spring. Okay.
It's not real. It just isn't, but we have to believe it's real because otherwise we want to exchange money with people. Those were, you know, the only transactions would be, you know, I trade my chicken for Europe.
I trade my chicken for your cow's milk, right? Right. We have to believe in things. And we have to believe internationally that when we go to other countries that, you know, I hand over $100 and I get a room in Barcelona.
These all belief systems, and they're all in our head.
And that's who we are. And we can't escape from. And it's the same belief systems that, you know, there's retribution. If you do a bad thing, you're going to go to hell.
It's the same belief system. Or in the, in a democracy, you're, you're going to go to jail. Okay. The fact of the matter is if you're, if you're white, you're less, you're not going to jail for marijuana charge.
If you're in Oregon, you can smoke pot anyway. It doesn't matter. But in, but in other places, you, if you're black, you're going to go to jail. Okay. It's going to happen.
It might be for a night, but it's going to be in your record. Okay.
Right.
I don't know if that's strictly across the board. I have very close friends that are black that, you know, but anyway, I see what you mean.
So, so, so we, we have these myths, we have these beliefs, and they're not, they're, they're fundamentally inconsistent, but we have to believe in something otherwise it doesn't work.
So, so the, so there's no difference between someone going to jail for, you know, a drug charge are going to hell. There's retribution for what you did.
That's maybe not drug, but let's say bank robbery. Okay.
Because you got a drug charge, you're going to go to hell anyway sooner or later, some sort of internal hell, but no difference between going to hell for, going to hell for, you know, not, not doing 20 Hell Marys or
Robin a bank.
There's a consequence for your actions. And that's what we believe and the problem happens when people don't have consequences for actions.
Okay. When people get away with willy nilly stuff because they're in a place of power.
And that's really, that's really what's going on in America today.
And what's happened in other places around the world and in our own past.
So we, hell, hell, we want there to be a hell. And we want that hell to be either in the here after, but most people would rather see it, you know, someone that's sent off to prison for what they've done.
Right.
Most want the punishment here. But I think that's why an afterlife hell also is favored like you said, man, that guy lived a great life and he did so much bad.
And I hope he gets his punishment, you know, and that's what must happen. It's got to happen somewhere. Somewhere. Exactly.
I grew up in the New York metro areas. I'm, I'm 56 now and I grew up in the time of, I was not in New York City, but I grew up in the time of the mop.
It was a real thing. And I went to a, I went to a Franciscan school, and we used to talk about, should the mob bosses be able to pay their way to go and pay off a church to go and, you know, be, be have a funeral church which then sets them off into the good life.
If they gave if in the last second, they said, you know, I'm sorry for my sins.
And, you know, as in our generation, we, you know, we, we were, we came out, we were children, we were the children of the 60s or children of people who matured in the 60s.
And we were at the point that BS this we're not, we don't believe that, not only do we believe that this person isn't going to be isn't going to be in the fiery hell, but we don't believe that the last second right last second confession is going to work either.
Right. So, so we, the world, the world has changed a little bit for roughly right now 49% of the population.
Actually 51% of the population today.
But the fact of the matter is that we, we have common beliefs. We, it's what we do. And we have to, we need it to exist. Otherwise, we'd just be killing each other you.
You know, you, you were, you were hesitant to probably bring me on the first time because you, what the hell is this guy talking about? There's been podcasts that they said, we're not so sure about you, we're not even going to try.
I'm not, no, I wasn't hesitant to bring you on.
I'm what I mean.
Where's this guy going?
I interview a lot of people that don't agree with me like recently I interviewed Michael Heiser, he's a Christian, but he's like ancient linguistic and stuff.
I don't agree with his conclusions. I don't, I don't think we have the same ideological worldview, so to speak, on how we view things, but I cherish his information, his knowledge.
And when I heard you, I wasn't sure I couldn't put my finger on you. It's like, okay, you use language similar to what a person who believes and sounds like a, like a, like a believer in these supernatural things, but you're saying you're a naturalist and that you're looking for a natural
nation that you're not into the, there's no like God, so to speak, in the literal sense, the way we interpret it is like a secret sky daddy who literally exists there.
The father.
Right. And so I just say that to like, and I don't mean that disrespectful, but it did come out kind of that way. I didn't mean it like that, but it's like,
No, it's good. I'm good with sky daddy. I'll go there.
Yeah. So I mean, I didn't know how to put my finger on it. And I get why you think the way that you do, because it makes sense. What you're saying makes sense.
I think there's dangers in believing in certain things too. That's what I want to educate people on like how maybe there's good, useful ways of believing in things.
And I'm trying to bring more critical thought, which is why I challenge and question everything I think because some thoughts and beliefs aren't good.
I go to the Ku Klux Klan rallies and I listened to a recent interview on a channel called soft white underbelly.
White man, literally, I'm from the South, my mom's from Florida, they're rednecks, right? The whole family's redneck and I don't mean in derogatory sense.
It is y'all hear me, you know, and mom and dad, they rock the rebel flag, but a lot of my friends, even in high school here in North Carolina rock the rebel flag, they have no Ku Klux Klan affiliation.
They're not racist. They're just really proud of the South. They don't realize maybe the implications of the flag and maybe some roots to it and stuff that might have racist tendencies.
And so I just say that to say, this guy was at Walmart, and he gets this guy walks up with a pamphlet, hands him a piece of paper and says, Listen, would you like to come find out what we're about?
You know, I'm proud of you for your for who you are and your skin color. And the guy's like, you know, he made it seem like a cool party, but he was like, you know, there's no reason for us to be ashamed to be white people.
I say, well, that sounds like an interesting apologetic because gosh, you got to be ashamed to be white in America today. A lot of people feel that way. So he goes to the rally and he finds out the guys preaching from the Bible.
And the guy preaching from the Bible is quoting Old Testament passages where God is calling the nation of Israel, holy nation, separate nation, divorce your foreign wives only stick to your own kind and stuff.
He reinterpreted this to imply on the white man right in this rally, and he made this mythos for all those who are the same skin color, a believable attachment to a biblical God that made them all but he literally became a Ku Klux Klan member and now he's being interviewed for being a Ku Klux Klan member,
and he says, yes, I am Ku Klux Klan and let me explain my heritage and let me explain to you why. And I heard the truth from the word of God and, you know, I know that I need to stay with my kind. That's a harmful mythos in my opinion, it might have benefited him within.
If we're going to be global, if we're going to try and break the chains of the constant division and try and find a make a way of making us.
It's more complex in this but simply try to make us more less tribal, but a unified tribe. That kind of mythos is harmful and those type of beliefs are harmful so that's why I'm very critical.
And I don't tell everyone, oh you must be a not you must be a naturalist you cannot believe any divine beings out there believe in a God or source or something complex beyond us.
No, I don't know if there is or isn't. I'm not convinced there is. I'm not against you if you do. I am trying to have us think what's best for us in the big picture and Ku Klux Klan rallies I I understand.
I just don't see that being good in the long run or in the big picture unless you plan on annihilating everyone and only people are left to white people know so I think you get what I'm trying to get at man I'm just a human.
Let me tell you a story. So the big picture I lived in China for four years. This during this time period of tenement square I was in my early 20s.
And I was I was working as a businessman, and I'm still a businessman, but I was working in China. And that was they had eliminated religion.
Okay, right, it didn't solve the problems. Okay, because it wasn't it was never about religion was about power.
It was all about power. And so you had local people, if you're a Communist Party member at that time, you had a great job. I mean, it was all typically through family connections now it's from it's relevant because it's, it's the religion, the religion is money.
But so you can't get if you take out the religion you still have the power and how power is part of the human experience that we we need, we really need power to keep the flock in line.
And in the absence of power, we have anarchy. Okay, important or Oregon, right now I'm gonna tell you, and these days we still have, I'm not saying I'm pro or against Antifa.
Exactly. I know people in T, right, I'm no goal. There is absolutely no goal in Antifa. Okay, you can do hashtag and T for on this YouTube video maybe there is no goal.
You know, they know there's no goal. They don't want there to be gold they want there to be. They want to shake up, you know, shake it up, which we know Trump calls anarchy.
The singular goal is to shake it up without any anything in sight. So there are no unhappy now that Biden's winning because they're Biden's not going to go their way.
At least he's not going to support continues shaking the pot because he's a, he's a moderate.
So, as a concept in China.
We still had power, even though we didn't have religion. The state became the religion and never was right whoever whoever was the predominant leader in the, in the, in the state at the time.
He believed became the path for us.
And when I was there there's dunk jumping had died and it was transferred over to, I can't remember who, but what was important was, it was the first peaceful transfer of power in modern day Chinese history.
Wow, he never had one so people like are every you know what's going to happen to news and so on and with Trump and you know he's going to go to prison and walk out of the White House.
And at the until that time in China they had gone through successive premieres that they had everyone was a mini revolution.
So what, what's what, because they kept, they had each, each president premier had their own mythos and their own story their own religion, and instead of there being a common religion, where if they had a common religion
like Catholicism was the answer to China, but let's say they had they had their own cardinal bishops and all that sort of stuff. And that controlled the mythos for the country, as it did in Argentina and as it did in many South American countries.
And if the religious myth will control it, they would have had a more peaceful transfer of power, because the, the religion, religious leaders would have maintained the people, and more consensus in the transfer.
So we, it is.
This is complex by the way. It is complex. Yeah, because it's about power, right about power and control without having everybody after each other's throat. Have you heard of gobernate.
Maybe not pronounced that way. Is that the way it's supposed to be?
Maybe Gabor Mat, gobernate.
He's a big young, Jungian philosophical guy who's an addiction specialist, but he has a talk, a TEDx talk, you really, this is right in the vein of what you're talking about here, the power of addiction and the addiction of power and how religious, you know, there's a connection here with the
the whole religious mentality to power. And this is why, for example, he points out Stalin wasn't Russian. He points out Hitler wasn't German. He parts, he points out these phenomenally powerful men in history.
Have these superiority complexes or they have these issues like Napoleon wasn't very tall, but he was the biggest man larger than life.
There's an addiction to power, or there's a power, there's power to the addiction and he goes into this really complicated thing but it's interesting you bring that out because even if you strip it of religion.
Do we still practice these fundamental religious, what we like, like it's almost like you got rid of the divine aspect but you're still doing the very same things you were doing without the divine.
So how do we steer that, how do we steer that as humans, since it's in our innate nature to act these ways and that's where your mythos ideas come in and you're starting to point out some of these things and I'm trying to keep history from repeating itself if possible
We can't, we can't keep history from because it's in human nature. There will always be bullies, and there always be heroes to save us. There always be damsels in distress, they'll always be heroes on the journey.
We will always have these archetypal characters because they are within us all.
And we are retelling, we're re-experiencing the human experience, who we are through our myths over and over and over again. We've been telling the same freaking stories for 10s of 1000s of years, because we haven't changed within that story.
And we will never change with that story, because it's who we are. There always be natural leaders always be people who think critically and always be followers.
You need the countens, who follow the laws, who do your paperwork, you need those people. If everybody was a Picasso, we'd be a pretty screwed up place because we wouldn't have the lights on, the water wouldn't run.
As you recognize, I'm pretty far out there. Can you imagine if there were millions of Bernie's out there, that each one was their own independent thought leader?
We'd be a mess, okay? We can't have that. We have to have a mainstream. Sometimes people criticize me, is this a mainstream thought?
Well, no it's not. But I'm okay that it's not a mainstream thought. The mainstream is sort of like an aircraft carrier. It kind of turns slowly, right? It has a whip around an aircraft carrier.
And so, as people add information to the mainstream discussion, the mainstream serves a little this way, a little bit that way, and that's healthy.
Otherwise, we go back to what China had is a, every time there's a transfer of power, there's a revolution. And there were actually many revolutions in China in modern times.
We talk about the cultural revolutions. There's actually many different, there was the counter-revolution. First part, there was a counter-counter-revolution, then there's the reactionaries, the counter-counter-revolution.
I mean, they went back 10, 15 years of, you know, children, you know, ratting out on their parents because somebody else told them to do something that was never true in the first place.
But they'll follow in the faith. Their own, their own switch trials. So we, it's who we are. We'll never escape from it. But what we do...
I hope we've solved out of it. Just, just...
No, there's no evidence now. That's how you can have it.
But what we, how we, how we transform in it, we transform forwards is that we come to accept that Harry Potter is not a true story.
We express ourselves through Harry Potter. We express ourselves through video games that we shoot each other up or watch war movies that people shoot each other up, as opposed to people actually shooting each other up or people believing that angels are coming and talking, whispering in their ears.
Okay. So we're transforming through modern media to have a, to externalizing our individual and ultimately group psyche.
So you don't think we could evolve past this?
No, no, not at all. Not at all. Not at all. Not, not, not even a glitch. Not. There is no evolution past this because it is who, not only is it who we are, it's who we always have been, and we are because of this psyche.
It's, it is inevitable.
I want to hope you're wrong. I mean, I get it. I relate to the mythos. I relate to the hero archetype. I relate to the person who needs a hero.
I relate to all these aspects. I, I think those will always carry on and that it works itself in nature too.
I mean, you watch the Discovery Channel, you could see animals act these ways too, but I hope we evolve and continue to evolve and I'm optimistic and just saying that I hope this is a myth.
Okay. In my mind that we can progress and somehow find a way to unite, even with our differences of opinions, but uh, yeah, I just don't see it happening anytime soon.
I'm just saying, but it's okay because what we do need is balance. We need balance and power. And whether you're a Democrat, Republicans are relevant, but Obama would not have become president if not for the failures of Bush Jr.
Bottom line. Okay. He was a total screw up. And even Republicans don't stand behind Bush Jr. anymore either. Okay. And Trump is, is a reaction to, to Obama and the Clinton and the Clintons.
And whether you like the Clintons, it's irrelevant, but Trump is a reaction to them. And now Biden is, Biden is a reaction to Trump. Okay. People didn't go out to vote for Biden. They've got the vote against Trump.
It's a reaction to them.
Right.
So we have, we have a balance, we have a balance of power. The Republicans, Democrats took over the house because of the, the, they believe the failures, generally the failures of the first two years of the Trump of Trump and too much power that people weren't putting him in check.
That's why the Democrats took the house two years ago.
I have no clue about any of this and I just so it's about that way.
It's about, it's all reactions. It's about, so what we need for going forwards is the, the belief that our systems work and that everybody has a voice.
We can all vote, and not just within the United States, but around the world.
So in China now they have very peaceful transfer of power, because they have elections the same way we do.
That's why you haven't heard about major issues in China and 3040 years is so democracy.
However, we call it that has a trans peaceful transfer of power is the answer. And when there isn't a peaceful transfer of power, the people are ultimately up, you know, rise up and be supported by other countries that have, you know, democracies.
So the democracy is the answer to all these problems and the separation of church and state.
Okay, because once you have the set once you have the church and the church involved in the state, you, you, you can't push back on any abuses of people that are being supported by the churches.
Right. Okay, you never have a democracy with with a combined church and state will not happen. And so I think that the path forward is political.
We're never going to change, but it's also cool about who we are that that we, we believe we watch Harry Potter and, you know, the owl send us messages right.
We watch some spider man, you know, transform, you know, get this strength of a spider and Aquaman the the fish or marine some sort of marine mammal.
We, we believe the we are taken in by these things to tell us about ourselves they tell they tell us about the story of humanity of human nature.
And it's absolutely fascinating. And it's what makes us different from chimpanzees. They have all the same issues chimpanzees they have bullies they have you know dams on the stress they have their mother and the child they have all the same archetypal characters.
And the only difference is they fight among themselves they kill each other. And they don't, they don't tell a story, they don't verbally tell a story.
And they don't experience the greater part of life that we do, you know, maybe, you know, they can, they can hear the understand what the insects are saying and the birds are talking, as Jane Goodall believed, but they lack what we lack that the human
nation the myth, the mythological, they lack what we have. And it is, it is both our failing and our try is what would help what's caused us to fail and also causes us to triumph.
And that is what the human that is the nature of the human experience. You're never going to get rid of religions. You're never going to get rid of little, little, you know, you know, the opposite of religion right fascist right.
Actually secular fascist because you can have religious fascist, secular fascist, you're never going to get rid of that. You always have reactions to those. And so if we keep the faith of a democracy and promote it around the world.
However, it's, you know, the capitalism, you usually have it successful.
We will continue to fail but we were more importantly we will triumph. And we won't blow ourselves up.
I hope not.
Yeah.
So, okay, this is great. I think we've covered quite a bit.
We've talked about angels winged creatures like birds shamanistic tribals. We went into politics which is something I never do on this channel but I felt like it was really fun because I'm not educated in this but it was important to kind of talk about some of the beliefs and things that we experienced as humans.
We're always going to experience things. I think they're subjective, but they're true to all of us in some way and we all have our own mythos so I hope we can unite more as humans but Bernie. Thank you so much. What are your final words to people out there and how can they help support what you do.
Go to my webpage before Ryan.com is lots of videos they range, a lot of two minute videos, and there's a bunch of longer ones, and people get to, you know, see more about who we are and where we come from I talk a lot about archetypes.
Follow me on, I use before Ryan for all social media platforms Twitter, Facebook, Instagram Tumblr, you know, you name it. Subscribe to my YouTube channel before Ryan.com that spelled out.com.
Just be part of the scene and listen, learn and comment especially I love comments.
Be who you are.
Awesome. Thank you.
Oh one more thing one more thing to find your deaths, your, your, who, what are your last thoughts and your death.
What are the final moments.
Is it that you hate evangelicals is that you love your children.
What is, because those your final thoughts, that is your eternity, whether they're seconds, or they're some biblical other reality.
Hopefully it's positive.
Make it positive.
Yeah, make it positive. Thank you so much for this. This has been an interesting discussion. I haven't had one of these in a while.
And, you know, made me dig deep, made me think in a different way than I'm used to thinking more non analytical, so to speak, when internalizing in the psyche and such.
So, thank you so much. Tell me what you guys think about the show. I mean, let me know if you liked this. If you do, we'll do this again.
I'd like to have Bernie come back on because he actually has presentations he will show visuals and show you guys stuff.
You can see a lot of pictures and images on the mythologies and like we were talking about Joseph Campbell's work, the hero's journey.
We can go into more stuff like that. I really enjoy those kind of conversations.
With that being said, it's down in the description. You guys can click on all the links to help us out here at MythVision.
You can help Bernie out before Orion.com.
And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, in case you have look for human, I understand we are MythVision.
MythVision
