Dr. McDonald, this topic is extremely sensitive to me.
I wondered if I would go to hell.
I believed in it.
I really believed this was a place where God would torture people
or they would, depending on my time in my theology,
they did it to themselves or God intentionally did it.
Just dependent on when you were finding Derek Lambert and where he was at at the
moment, trying to understand his Bible.
I read a book by Mary Kay Baxter who had a vision
and went to sleep and Jesus came and took her on a tour
literally through hell and hell is in the shape of a human body.
So you enter it through the jaw, through the mouth and you go in and there's
torture and pitchfork and melting the flesh off and it comes back on and
the level of detail that she wrote was so artistic and gruesome.
I could see it. I was a young teen and I couldn't sleep good at night
thinking about it after reading that book for a while and all the people
right now that were burning, all this stuff in my head,
it was really dark and deep and my mom, I love her so much
and I want her to know she's scared, she's a Christian.
She's honestly terrified about hell when she goes to think about it and she
says, I'm not worthy. So I hope in today's educational video
we dispel the notion this is true in any literal sense
and understand where it comes from from a scholar such as yourself. So there's my
intro. I just had to get it off my chest.
Derek, I love this topic and I did a taping for the History Channel
as a talking head on the history of Hades and hell.
And so I have a lot of material and I don't know if we're going to get through
in a half an hour. I doubt if we will and I'm going to
start with two jokes. One about heaven and one about hell
and the other about the literary playfulness of tours of hell in
antiquity. The first has to do with heaven.
Jesus is aware that Peter got a short straw in the drawing
about who's going to allow people into heaven
because everybody else is you know flying around with the angels playing
harps enjoying the streets of gold and there Peter is
day after day talking to millions of people trying to determine whether
they belong in heaven or in hell. So Jesus comes to Peter and he said
hey Mr. Rock, I want to give you some relief.
It's your about time for you to enjoy the delights of heaven yourself.
And so I want you to tell me what I can do
to spell you so that you can enjoy the angels.
And Peter said Lord I am so grateful for that. I'm so tired of doing this
ceaselessly and have to send people to hell. It is not a happy job.
So I'm going to give you the short form. You just ask people where they're from
what they did as an occupation. What are their virtues and vices
and then make a judgment about whether they belong here or not.
Well Jesus says I think I can handle that. So Peter went off and started
flying around with the angels and eating ambrosia and all that.
And Jesus was really pretty good for several days
in doing the short form and getting people determined whether they're in
heaven or hell. And there was an old man that came up
and Jesus said old man where are you from? He said well I'm
from a little village in the Mediterranean basin.
Jesus said oh that's fine. And what was your occupation?
He said well I was a carpenter. Well Jesus says oh that's very interesting
you're a carpenter. And tell me about your virtues and
vices. He said well my life was not that
interesting but I had a son who was known for telling the truth.
And Jesus said father.
And the old man said Pinocchio.
Okay so that's the heaven story. The hell story is this.
A Lutheran pastor dies. Have good Lutheran. And he goes to hell.
And he tells the devil hey there must be a mistake.
I'm a Lutheran pastor. And the devil said you know we did install a new
computer system and there have been some glitches and we have some data problems.
So you're welcome to stay down here and look around and we won't put you through
bed tortures. But we really have to verify whether you
belong here or not. So the devil thanked the
Lutheran pastor thanked the devil and he walked around and he saw three guys
talking to each other dressed very differently.
And so he came up to them and was just going to chat.
And one of them was wearing a Roman toga.
And looked quite Jewish. Had a beard and his eyebrows met.
And so he said excuse me. You know you look like the apostle
Paul that I've seen on icons. And he said
go and meet Paulus. And he said you're the apostle Paul.
He said yeah. And so he then noticed that there is a another man
in a Roman toga holding a codex. And
very wise looking. And he said the pastor said to him
you know you look like images that I've seen of Saint Augustine.
And he said Ego sum Augustinas. He said you're Saint Augustine.
What are you what the hell are you doing here?
And then he saw a corpulent man in a Cossack.
And holding a leather Bible. And he said you know you really look like
what we Lutherans cherish as a vision of Luther.
And he said I'm Luther. He said you're Luther. He said hey guys what's
going on. So I hear I have Paul. I have
Augustine. And I have Luther in hell. And Paul said
it was works after all.
Okay now nobody nobody nobody knows what happens after death.
And the only physical the only scientific things we can say
is either there's no consciousness after death
or if you have believed some with the near-death experience business
the mind still may have images and expectations of
delights, usually delights or or torments.
So I don't know how to judge that. I'm not a scientist
but nobody knows what happens after death.
So every story like my jokes about heaven and hell
is a design. Now what is the function of tours of hell?
It is to encourage people to certain kinds of ethical norms.
So the story of Jesus and Lazarus is to say you should care for the poor.
That's the message of the the story of Lazarus and the rich man.
It's not that there's a real hell. In the story it's necessary to say
that you this is the the problem if you don't care for the poor.
So it has an ethical punch and maybe the author Luke thought that
there was a hell. I wouldn't be surprised because we have
at this point a hell or eighties in Judaism
where in early Judaism you didn't. So where does this stuff come from?
And it probably comes even from pre-Homeric poetry
where you have visits to the netherworld and in the Odyssey book 11
you have the Odysseus going to the netherworld to consult
a prophet named Tiresias about how to get home.
And when he's there he sees a number of his companions
including Achilles and he says Achilles how wonderful it is that here you are
in Hades and you the king of all the dead because your hero wasn't.
And Achilles says excuse me I would rather be a slave on earth to a poor man
than to be king of all the dead. It stinks down here
and then you have not only that but you have the torments
of tantalists who where we get the word tantalizing
he can never get relief from his thirst or his hunger even though the water
comes up to his chin he can't drink it even there's fruit
just within reach but it's outside of reach he can't do it
and so you have but there is a there is a heaven
Elysian fields but that's only for those who are the children of the
deities or their loved ones like Menelaus who married Helen
and so on so that's what you have in the Odyssey. Now Socrates comes along
according to Plato and says those are really
no good stories to tell children if you want them then to go and be brave in
battle because Achilles the best of all of the
warriors among the Greeks and in Greek mythology would rather be
a slave so that means that people who are conscripted
to go into the military are going to try to get out of it
right because why would why would they want to die
um so a Plato solution is to have his own tour of hell
which includes both punishments for the wicked
but also a glorification for others especially through a reincarnation
so the wicked are punished and so that those things need to be
avoided but also there are catalogs of what
is righteous and so you have rewards and Plato
uses a myth of Ur a soldier who dies he visits the netherworld
he is allowed to come back to be the messenger
of the gods to mortals and tells them about the torments of the wicked and
the rewards of the righteous and in fact in the end
those who are totally righteous can be in the firmament this is
in the last book of the of the of the republic
and there's another one in the Gorgias which is somewhat similar
so these are but we know for sure that Plato expects
his readers to know it's all fiction
this is not historical stuff it's crafted in order to create a
mythology that encourages nobility in battle
which the stories in Homer did not Virgil comes along and in the
Aeneid he has Aeneas in book six go to the netherworld to
consult with his dead father and Caesis and there
he sees the the torments of the wicked but also
the rewards of those like his father who were noble
and the the point is for the reader to understand
that from Hades you get information about the Roman dynasty that goes from
Aeneas to Augustus and it's going to be noble and
there'll be an empire front without end so it really is is quite a positive
thing now Lucian comes along and he says all of that is bullshit
there is no hell there is no lesion fields and in his satires
he has people go to the netherworld and a Manipus who is a kind of a
well he's a a cynic and he's a poor man
and he goes and he sees Tantalus being tormented and he sees other rich people
being tormented and the whole point is to stick it to the
wealthy in the Roman Empire and to say you know go ahead and abuse
your your family abuse others and pile up wealth and this is where
you're going to go and this is what you're going to suffer
but it's a satire and everybody knows that it's a satire
and he also goes to the lesion fields and sees people
still making love and having feasts and Homer is all over the place they read
Homer and enjoy him and so on. If I may comment real quick just just
a quick comment is sounds like Plato had a huge influence
number one preceding Aeneas, Lucian, Christianity,
you name it, we also have way back in Egyptian lore
the book of the dead or the living depending on and in theirs you have the
lake of fire you have this little pool of lava type fire
but the imagination is is pretty interesting what
so to be clear just for anyone who's watching what you're suggesting is
Plato wrote this fiction and he knew that other
philosophers would have understood this as fiction
that this is not literally the case and maybe that's his original intention
the the question kind of becomes how did people start taking this
literal the uneducated started to grab it and
was it formulated by elites to kind of dupe the general common people who
aren't philosophers because philosophers don't need
it seems in their own mind we don't need to be threatened with fire in order to
live noble lives to be honorary people and be decent folks
this is something maybe the common folk might need in order to
behave properly because they're not intellectuals I don't know I'm just
throwing it out there's something to chew on as we go in the episode
yeah I don't think Derek and I'll tell you why
these are not the only kinds of myths that philosophers
including Plato have they use myth as a kind of
argument for themselves so it's not that people
Plato would have thought that such a thing existed
he rather articulates it because it's this kind of vision as opposed to the
one in Homer that will make for better warriors
so surely other philosophers are going to have
other understandings of the netherworld that may solve the same problem
but they know that they're doing philosophy
through mythology and this is an important point
we think that the philosophy is different from mythology
but for the Greeks you craft your theology largely through a
mythology it is the way for you to make sense of the world
in a pre-scientific time and then with Aristotle and the
and Greek science and so on things change somewhat
but these are they know these are fictions
no they're not trying to dupe anybody they're not trying to pull
wool over someone's eyes now did people read these stories and think they were
true and so on they probably did but that's not
what it was intended
you
