And today I have the I would say the world's leading expert on this book. You are noted for
your Hebrew Bible research if I were someone who really needed the answer. In the book of Daniel
I think to establish his character and I think that is why they wanted to have a Median king.
What classicist would term realism? The author of the book of Daniel actually thought there was
a dryus, the mead. So you tell the story about the more famous person. From Daniel's point of view
this was a completely irrational.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I have a treat for you today. We're going to tackle Daniel,
the book of Daniel, a prophetic piece of literature but it's not all about prophecy.
It's full of fantastic tales that still resonate in our imagination today. And today I have the
I would say the world's leading expert on this book. Someone who spent over 40 years dissecting it
and trying to analyze and understand the book of Daniel and that is Dr. John J. Collins. Welcome
back my friend. Good to be back. Thank you. You are emeritus from Yale Divinity. You were born
in Ireland but you're an American biblical scholar. You're Holmes professor or War Holmes professor
of Old Testament criticism and interpretation if I'm correct. Correct. You are noted for your
Hebrew Bible research, Dead Sea Scroll studies, apocalyptic stuff. You have several books. I
loved the apocalyptic imagination. I go through your series all the time to try and wrap my head
around what's going on here and let's just hone in and waste no time. The book of Daniel is a very
pivotal text used by not only late Second Temple Jews in their writings. We find to have a cook
pastor at least this continuation of redating and calculating the fulfilled prophecies they expect.
But even in Christianity, the son of man dealing with the book of Revelation, which your wonderful
wife wrote a powerful book on the combat myth pertaining to John's Revelation. We've talked
about Daniel before, John, but just so everybody knows, he doesn't mind me calling him John or
friends in case someone online goes, you better be professional here. But if I were someone who
really needed the answer, not just an authority figure such as yourself to say, Daniel made
predictions, Daniel was wrong. We need to know why and what he predicted. What did he get wrong
about the ancient world, maybe that kind of gives us signals that he wasn't actually in Babylon,
whoever this author is? Who is Daniel and how does he get it wrong? Is there a way you
paint this picture leading up to how we can be certain that he was wrong about predictions?
Well, let's start maybe with things in the book of Daniel that relate to the past,
which are generally more easily verified or falsified than things relating to the future.
And in the first half of the book of Daniel, you have a collection of stories. Most of these
chapters are in our make, and they evidently circulated and grew over time. But they are
put in the book of Daniel, I think, to establish his character and give him an identity. But they
include some whoppers, such as the reign of one Darius the Mead. Now, there is no, we know a good
deal about Persian history because the Greek historians wrote about it. There was no Darius
the Mead. Now, that the Meads never ruled over Babylon directly. There was a joint kingdom with
the Persians at one point. Darius was a famous Persian king. So we actually have a pretty good
idea why they created this character of Darius the Mead, because there was a schema that was well
known in the ancient world of a series of world kingdoms. And the typical way that runs is you
have the Assyrians, the Meads, the Persians, and then the Greeks. This would change over time,
and the Romans would come in, and the Meads and Persians would be combined. Outside of the book
of Daniel, though, it starts with Assyria. In the book of Daniel, it starts with Babylon,
and for fairly obvious reasons. It was Babylon that did in Jerusalem. But they still kept Mead.
The Meads never had anything to do with the Jews. The Meads were up north, and they really didn't
intrude on Judea at all. But they're kept in there by the power of tradition. And I think that is why
they wanted to have a Median king. And they thought, well, Darius will do.
Do you think it's partly also what classicists would term realisms, or they're kind of trying to
invent verisimilitude? Like, you can trust me, I know a little history, even though they're
inventing it. You see, it raises one of the most fundamental questions that you have when you
read anything is genre. What kind of thing are you reading? Now, if you're reading a comedian,
somebody who's doing a lampoon of something, and you're taking it all dead seriously,
you're going to be way off. So we've always come to these books because they're in the Bible,
and we think they must be all deadly serious. And this isn't necessarily the case. Is it the case
that the author of the book of Daniel actually thought there was a Darius the Mead? I kind of
doubt it, actually. I mean, if you read a novel nowadays with a fictitious character in it,
do you assume that the author is just uneducated? Right. Or do you allow for the possibility that
he's actually making up the character? We think we can ignore that. I think you tell him we'll get it.
Yeah. So that, I think, is what you've got to deal with there. The other famous one like that is
in Daniel chapter four, Nebuchadnezzar's madness. Now, Nebuchadnezzar was a famous king. If he had
gone mad and been turned into become like a beast, we'd have heard of that somewhere. And in fact,
we can trace the development of that particular story too. And one of the links in the chain
was found in the Dead Sea Scrolls. And in that one, the king is Nabonidus. Nabonidus came after
Nebuchadnezzar. He's a very unpopular king in Babylon because he was devoted to the moon god.
He was a Mooney. And he went off to the desert to Teima to build a temple to the moon god and
neglected the cult in Babylon. And because of this, we have a text from the ancient New Rees that's
a satire on Nabonidus that's just making fun of him. Now, this is this idea of his adjourn
in the wilderness. That's what gives rise to the legend of him being turned into a beast. And then,
you know, when they got to telling this story in Jewish circles a couple of hundred years later,
nobody had heard of Nabonidus. Everybody had heard of Nebuchadnezzar. So you tell the story
about the more famous person. This kind of thing happens in American tradition too. You know,
stories will get attached to George Washington rather than to some obscure figure that nobody
ever heard of. So that much, I think, says a good deal about the kind of stories you have
in the first half of the book of Daniel. They're paying fast and loose with history. They're not
history lessons. You know, they're telling you colorful stories to make a point. Which I think
is why it's still such a powerful book, right? But it also helps us answer a question of was
this guy around at that time huge red flags to suggest that he's this would mean no. If he was
there, he would have just put the correct character and even still told the story without getting the
wrong kind of information. But we can put that to the side right now because that's not as solid
of the evidence that really makes people pinpoint when this guy writes. So you're painting this
really fantastic story. Please continue. Well, that's the first part of the book. And it's all
about characters who supposedly lived in the 6th century BCE. Now, you know, whether they did or
not, you start out with a bouquet, let's do it, you work your way down till Cyrus the Persian
is about to come at the end of Daniel chapter six. And the stories are schematized, you know,
to reflect this sequence of Babylon media, Persia, Greece, and you get as far as Persia in the first
half of the book. And then in Daniel seven, you back up to Belshazzar. Belshazzar actually was
a king at all, but he ruled in Babylon while Nabonidus was off in Tana. So you back up to
Belshazzar and then you start all over again. But then from chapter seven on, the punchline
of every chapter has to do with the events in Jerusalem in the 2nd century BC. Now, there's
really no dispute about this. I think all the most fundamentalist or fundamentalist scholars
would agree that, but they would say that this was all prophesied by Daniel at several hundred
years beforehand. Of course. But then you got to ask yourself why wasn't that Daniel gave such
intensive prophecies about a few years in the 160s BC and nothing beyond that. So now he actually
had pretty good information about what was happening because in chapter 11, you know, he's
talking, the angel Gabriel is giving him a history lesson, but he is supposedly giving it to him as
a prediction. He says, I will tell you what's written in the book of truth and what is going
to happen. And it starts off, three more kings shall arise in Persia. Actually, they weren't so
good in Persian history. There were more than three kings after the time this was supposedly
spoken. But anyway, the fourth shall be far richer than all of them. And he shall stir up all against
the kingdom of Greece. That a warrior king shall arise and shall rule with great dominion. And that
is Alexander the Great. You know, nowadays we can cheat. You can have an annotated bible, or you
can look it up in Wikipedia. I think everybody in the ancient world was supposed to know who this
great king was. And while still rising in power, his kingdom shall be broken and divided toward
the four winds of heaven. Yes, Alexander died young and his kingdom was divided among his generals,
who are known as the Diyadaki. And two of these become very important for the story.
There's one of them in Syria. He's called the king of the north and one in Egypt, who is called the
king of the south. And no names being mentioned. Part of the technique, part of the genre here,
is that you make it sound like somebody is seeing this dimly. So you don't want to be too specific.
Very clever, by the way. Yes. Then the king of the south shall grow strong. But one of his,
you know, again, you can go through this with an annotated bible. And you work your way on down
until a figure comes on the scene. In 1121, in his place shall arise a contemptible person
to whom royal majesty had not been conferred. He shall come in without warning and obtain the
kingdom through intrigue. Armies shall be swept away before him and so forth. And he shall stir
up his power and determination against the king of the south with a great army. Now,
if you've been correlating this with what's happening in the Hellenistic period, this
is clearly enough Antiochus IV epiphanies. And he invaded Egypt. He invaded Egypt actually twice.
And he wanted to put his nephew on the throne. Well, actually, there's some speculation that he
wanted to be king himself of Egypt. But anyhow, the king of the south shall wage war against him.
This is Egypt. The king of the south is the Egyptian king that's fighting against Antiochus.
And then the king of the north, Antiochus, shall return to his land with great wealth.
But his heart shall be set against the holy covenant. Well, that's just kind of a gratuitous
comment for the moment. At the time appointed, he shall return and come into the south. That's
his second invasion of Egypt in 168. But this time, it shall not be as it was before. For ships
of the Kid team shall come against him and cause him to lose heart and withdraw. Now, we have an
account of that in the Roman historians. And the way the story goes, a Roman legate named Papillias
Lenas met him on the beach outside Alexandria at a place called Elyusus and demanded that he
withdraw from Egypt and drew a circle around him in the sand and said he wanted his answer before
he stepped out of that circle. Now, Antiochus, even though Antiochus was sometimes referred to as the
matman, you know, he had called himself epiphanies, which means God made manifest. And some people
called him epimanies, the matman. But he was no fool. And when the Romans told him that he needed
to reply before he stepped out of that circle, he replied. And he withdrew from Egypt. He wasn't
about, you know, to get into a war with Rome. His father had done that and it had been a disaster
that was still paying off the debts. Now, it is after that it says he shall lose heart and withdraw.
So he withdrew from Egypt. He shall be enraged and take action against the holy covenant. It is on
his way back from Egypt that he sacks Jerusalem. Now, why did he do that? Well, we have an account
of that in Second Maccabees. And the one in Second Maccabees has much more detail than the
account in First Maccabees. So what had happened? When he was in Egypt, a rumor spread in Jerusalem
that the king, that he had been killed. Now, there had been a dispute going on as to who
should be high priest. And there was a man named Jason who had gone to the king and promised him
more money if you make him high priest. And the king said, great idea, you're high priest. And so
he got rid of the legitimate high priest. And then a little bit later, a man named Menelaus
was taking the tribute to the king and he said, you know, if you met me high priest, I'd give you
more. And so the king said, even better idea. And so Menelaus became high priest. And now Jason
tried to get the high priesthood back. So Jason attacked Menelaus. And in effect, the civil war
broke out in Jerusalem. When the king heard this, he took it that all Judea was in revolt.
And he had just been humiliated in Egypt. And so on the way back, it says, forces, he should be
enraged and take action against the holy covenant. Forces by him shall occupy and profane the temple
and the fortress. The fortress is, you know, it's really, the temple itself was fortified.
If you've been to Jerusalem and seen the temple mount, you know, the kind of thing we're talking
about. Right. Now, this, what was he actually trying to do? And there's been endless debate
about this. And you will not get it clearly stated, you see, in the sources. I mean, from Daniel's
point of view, this was a completely irrational action by the king. Nowadays, they would accuse
him of antisemitism. You know, if the assumption is it's an ideological hostility to the Jewish
people by the people of Judea. But now what he probably was doing, the best account I've ever
found out is that when a king conquered an area, it was the custom to permit the people to live
according to their ancestral laws. But this was given as a privilege by the king. And what Antiochus
Epiphanes was probably doing was withdrawing that privilege. That means you cannot live according
to your ancestral laws. If you live according to your ancestral laws, you're a distinct people.
And what he wanted to do was say, no more Judah. He wasn't trying to suppress the Jewish religion.
He wasn't trying to interfere with Jewish communities outside of Judea, but he was trying
to destroy what was distinctive about Judea and make them like everybody else in his empire.
So that's what he was doing. If you allow for the fact that Daniel, you know, sees this as
completely irrational, it's a well-informed account. He goes on, forces by him shall occupy and
profane the temple and the fortress. They shall abolish the regular burnt offering and set up
the abomination that makes desolate. Now, these are the things that kind of run through the book
of Daniel and you get them in first Maccabees too. So first of all, you know, the normal cult
at a sacrifice in the morning and a sacrifice in the evening, and he abolishes that from the viewpoint
of a real believer in Judaism. This was disastrous. Right. You know, this is how you
stave off the anger of God by giving him his breakfast in his supper. So this would have been
disastrous. And on top of that, he erects what's called the abomination that makes desolate.
Now, it's again, not all that clear, just what that is. Prevailing explanation of it is that it
was in pagan temples and Syrian temples, they had typically horned altars. And apparently,
he put one of these horned altars on top of the great altar of sacrifice in the Jerusalem temple.
And this was said to make desolate and that they in Hebrew, shakuts, macho main, shakuts is an
abomination. Right. It's the same word that gives you shiksa. So, you know, it's bad. Macho main,
I think, and this was proposed more than 100 years ago, was a pun on Baal Shameim, Baal of the heavens,
who would have been the main God worshipped in Syria. So technically, this and just help me connect
the dots here, because I'm thinking of the golden calf, I'm thinking of Josiah's reforms, I'm thinking
of all of these kind of images from horned bull type figures, El Baal, these other figures,
like you're describing. So this is potentially the answer. I've heard people try to say he was
putting Zeus in there or something like that. Baal Shameim would have been identified with
Zeus Olympias. This was one of the things that the Greeks did when they went to a place, was they
tried to figure if they met a deity that they didn't know before. They asked, could this be what
somebody we know by a different name? And so they established a set of coincidences. Actually,
the popular one for the God of Israel was Dionysus, and that's because of all the wine
that was used in the worship. But I think this is what he's describing.
One note on desolation, just going to the Gospels for one second, and I know that's not your specific
focus. You're a Hebrew Bible scholar, but you have written and published, and you know extensively
about late Second Temple Judaism. And this is late Second Temple Judaism that we find in this
literature. I've had some make interesting observations. I don't know how convinced you are,
but the abomination of desolation or that makes desolate in the Jerusalem Temple, which I think
is hinting, in my opinion, I think Mark, Matthew, and Luke are aware of the destruction that took
place of the temple. But some say this might have been a sign of Caligula going in and setting up
an image or attempting to. They're getting signs, and some even think Paul is hinting at this with
the man of sin who's trying to set himself up for worship. Could be Caligula, could be Nero,
one of these impers. Are you persuaded by any particular interpretation on those points?
Not by any particular one, but I think it is obviously some pagan
signum. Now, it could be even Roman banners, it could be a statue of the emperor,
it could be a statue of a pagan god. I think what it means in the New Testament is probably
different from what it meant in Daniel's original context. But it is some symbol of pagan religion
or pagan power that they figured didn't belong in the temple.
You would never interpret that as these are rebels or zealots or Jews in any way.
No, no, no, no. I mean, it's coming from the imperial side. I don't think there's any doubt
about that. But I think, you know, in the case of Daniel, it is something that is associated
with Baal Shemem. Now, it's not inconceivable that it was a statue. The explanation that's
most commonly accepted is that it was a pagan altar that was installed. Now, this is in line
with what you read in 1st and 2nd Maccabees. And so the assumption is Daniel is doing fine here.
He will seduce with intrigue those who violate the covenant. So some people say,
yes, your majesty, this is what you want. This is what we will do. But the people who are loyal
to their god shall stand firm and take action. What action will they take? You know, some people
would say that must be the Maccabees. I don't actually think so. Because it says the wise
among the people. Now, these may not be the only people who take action, but they're the people
that Daniel obvious, the book of Daniel relates to and regards as the heroes. The wise among the
people shall give understanding to many. So what do they do? What's the action that they take?
They will explain to people what's really going on. So no violence necessarily. No violence. We'll
get to that. Okay. But they will explain. Now, what is this understanding that they will give them?
Right. Now, if you've ever read anything by Richard Horsley, you know, Richard would say,
oh, these were scribes explaining the Torah. The Torah doesn't come up at all in this. The only
understanding that comes up in this is what you've been getting in the visions of Daniel.
And what you had in chapter 10 is that the real battle is being fought upstairs. You think that
this is a battle between Antiochus Epiphanes and the Maccabees, but actually it's a battle between
the Prince of Greece, an angel and Michael, the Prince of Israel. And that's the struggle that's
going to determine what happens on earth. May I just point out one thing in your and I'd love
to get your comments on this because Elaine Pagels was instrumental in my observation on
origins of Satan, how much on the spiritual realm, an alternative realm, that there were,
you know, celestial battles and wars between principalities and rulers. We see it in Paul.
And how they actually, while they're speaking in this language, like you're describing a Prince,
an angel of Greece, or, you know, these spiritual beings, these godly beings, immortal beings,
are fighting, there is a reflection often that humans are also doing that. So is it, I guess my
question is saying, while it is talking about what you're saying, is it also possibly reflecting
what's going on between the Maccabees and Antiochus in your view? Well, you know, let's see what he
says. Okay. The wise among the people should give understanding to many. For some days, however,
they shall fall by sword and flame and suffer captivity and plunder. When they fall victim,
they shall receive little help. NRSV says a little help. I would prefer to just say little help,
which is to say not much. Now, Saint Jerome, you know, who translated the Bible into Latin,
said that this was a slighting reference to the Maccabees. And that's been a very influential
opinion. Whether it's right, I'm not sure. Some of the wise shall fall so that they may be refined,
purified and cleansed until the time of the end, for there is still an interval until the time
appointed. Now, it doesn't say anything about they will eventually drive out the Greeks. It
doesn't say anything about the wise winning a battle. They will fall by sword, captivity and
plunder. But the main concern for them seems to be that they teach, they impart understanding,
and that they are purified. Now, there's another text that many people think was written about
the same time called The Assumption of Moses. And that tells the story of a persecution that's
very much like this. And there, the father takes his sons to go into a field and say,
let us purify for ourselves for three days and die. For if we do this, our blood will be avenged
before the Lord. Now, there's a story in 1st Maccabees about some people in the time of trouble
who fled to the wilderness and the soldiers surrounded them on the Sabbath. And these were
pieters that they wouldn't fight on the Sabbath. So they were all killed. And the Maccabees set to
hell with that. Right. You know, it's all right to break one commandment if you can then be alive
to keep the rest of them. So this was, I figure Daniel was on the side of the people in the cave
or was more like the people in the cave. But really to circle back now, though, to your question of
how do we know that Daniel was wrong, got some things wrong. Up to this point, you see, everything
that has been supposedly prophesied happened. Then it says, the king shall act as he pleases.
He shall pay no respect to the gods of his ancestors and so forth. And at the time of the end in
verse 40, the king of the south shall attack him. The king of Egypt did not attack the king of Syria
after these things happened in Jerusalem. The king of the north shall crush him like a whirlwind
with chariots and horsemen. He shall come into the beautiful land and tens of thousands shall
fall victim. Again, this did not happen. You know, he sent soldiers to Jerusalem at one point,
but this would have been a little bit earlier in the story, but the king didn't just invade
Judea and he shall stretch out his hand against the countries and the land of Egypt shall not
escape and but reports of the east of the north shall alarm him. He shall go out with great fury
to bring ruin and complete destruction to many. And then you get to the crucial point. He shall
pitch his palatial tents between the sea and the beautiful holy mountain, yet he shall come to his
end with no one to help him. So it is predicting that the king of Syria, Antiochus the fourth,
would invade Judea and die between the sea and the holy mountain. In fact, he died out in the east.
Beyond the Euphrates somewhere probably in 164. Yeah. Yeah. And the holy mountain just so anyone
has a geographic idea. This particular holy mountain. Is this somewhere in the region of Judea
in the north here near? This is Mount Zion in Jerusalem. Okay. Now, I mean, that is how
certainly Eddie Jew would take it. Got it. The beautiful holy mountain is Mount Zion,
even though there's several holy mountains described in the earlier. Now when you say,
where's the mountain? I know what you mean. I just wanted to emphasize that because by this time,
as Youngerton Abler and others have pointed out, you know, you have a pretty confident
developed form at least of Judaism around this period that is happening. I'm not saying canon was,
you know, there was no fixed canon, but like there is a formulation of sacred literature and
religious practice that we would consider Judaism at this point. And being Jerusalem is the central
heart of God's temple and such. So Antiochus dies where he shouldn't, details that are described
about him don't happen. Though they continue that same predictive power with the same kind of,
there's no shift in complete change, but it sounds like it's the same kind of thing that
came before that was accurate. And then after that point, it's just all everything from that
point on gets wrong. Everything from that point on hasn't happened. Got it. And remember back when
I first wrote on this, there's a professor in Belfast who was a respected professor on the
Septuagint, but was a fundamentalist, I think. And he wrote to me and said, well, obviously,
these last, what is it, last five versus six verses, but those are not about Antiochus Epiphanes.
Those are about the Antichrist who is yet to come. Right. And so why then do you suddenly
jump from Antiochus Epiphanes to the Antichrist? Of course, they have a different hermeneutic
when you're dealing with the sacred. Hermeneutic would be, it can't be about Antiochus Epiphanes
because that didn't happen. They just don't allow for a possibility that Daniel could have gotten
some things wrong. Exactly. This takes me, and I know we're dealing with different genre,
different literature, different time. It's fast forwarding, you know, 200 years practically
when the literature we call the Gospels pops up and the Son of Man is herking back to Daniel,
this language that we find in Judaism. And a lot of people read in the more conservative
circles and the groups I came out of called Preterism, there are various forms of it. I'm
not getting into all the interpretations, but to simply put, you wrote an article that you sent
me before you published, and I hope you published it by now, but if not, people are getting a sneak
peek is on Mark, you were kind of tackling some N.T. Wright's points. And Mark sounds to me,
helped me out with this, to be describing Roman soldiers surrounding Jerusalem, the idea of
destruction that's coming to Jerusalem. And a lot of the details in there, he uses biblical language,
meaning he uses Daniel type language as any good Jew would do, oftentimes in the mid-Rashic way,
reapplying it to their context and such. But is there any clear signal in your view,
in Mark, Matthew or Luke, that the events being described predict things that don't come to pass?
In a similar fashion, here are some, we know stuff, or predicting it. Remember,
this is coming from Jesus' mouth in the 30s. And I'm writing this after the war,
similar to Daniel, anonymous author, we'll just say Mark, Matthew and Luke, for the sake of brevity.
Predicting the war that you see is coming, and it's already happened technically, is there any
point in which you'd say, hey, this is where he's predicting something, these are signs of the end,
they think because of this war that happened in 70, and then now we're dealing with failure?
Is there anything in your view? Yes, I'm just looking here at Mark 13.
You know, you can read along down, and a lot of it has happened. And if the Lord had not cut shore
those days, and no one would be saved, if anyone says to you at that time, look here is the Messiah,
look there he is, do not believe it, false messiahs and false prophets will appear and
produce signs and omens and lead astray if possible of the elect. But in those days,
after that suffering, the sun will be dark and the moon will not give its light.
This can be also hyperbolic language. But then they will see the Son of Man coming with great
power and glory. He will send out the angels and gather his elect from the four winds of heaven,
from the ends of the earth to the ends of heaven. If that has happened, Derek, we are among the left
behind. So technically, you can see how someone would try to make that hyperbolic, to try to make
that symbolic or something, and not take that at face value. That's what Tom Wright does. Got it.
Now, this gets into a more technical thing, we don't have time to get into today, but I try to
describe to someone that you have this kind of hyperbolic metaphorical language for resurrection
in Ezekiel and other passages in the Scripture. However, by the time this literature is coming
up, Jews are literally burying their dead in bone boxes, expecting an actual resurrection. There
seems to be a, oh, help me out, help me out. Hold on a minute here. The bone boxes have nothing to
do with expecting resurrection. I think bone boxes long before that. Okay, okay, help me out, correct
bone boxes, where it was a way of being gathered to your ancestors. Okay, I thought there was some
significance to it. Ideally, you were buried in the same tomb as your parents and your grandparents,
and then, you know, at some point, somebody tidies up and puts the bones in boxes, and that's just a
way of, you know, creating order. Now, if you believed in resurrection, I suppose, then you might
relate it to that, but not all Jews did. Got it. But the belief in resurrection was certainly
prior to the resurrection of Jesus. Absolutely. As Paul says, if there is no resurrection of the
dead, then Christ has not been raised. That's an odd thing to say. I'm a skeptic, you know,
I'm not a person. That's an odd thing to say. If you take my point of view, right, as I'm
approaching this critically, and I'm thinking, why would he say that? He says he rose, but like,
he's maybe being rhetorical with the Corinthians and saying like, hey, look, if you don't buy this
resurrection thing that we Jews have had, or maybe he's saying something to that effect.
You see, he's writing to the Corinthians, and he's writing to people who had great trouble with the
idea of resurrection of the dead. Mind you, not unreasonably. Right. You know? I can relate.
The evidence is not overwhelming, shall we say. You don't meet people walking around
raised from the dead. So that's, I think, why Paul puts it that way. Now, you know,
and Daniel is the first, the only book I would say in the Hebrew Bible who has a real resurrection.
At that time, Michael, the great prince protector of your people shall arise. This tells you, you
know, where the real battle has been fought in heaven. And at that time, your people shall be
delivered, everyone who was found written in the book. That is also an innovation, because
not all your people will be saved. Only those who are written in the book. Right. You know,
he's keeping a book, he's writing it twice, and he's putting in who's naughty and who's nice.
If you're not nice, you can sleep on. But many of those who sleep, and it's actually in the land
of dust. It's usually translated in the dust of the earth, but it's in the land of dust.
And I think that means Shai'ul, the nether world, shall awake some to everlasting life,
and some to shame and everlasting contempt. Daniel doesn't say that they will come back
and get bodies back. Now, I think, you know, what is raised must have some kind of body,
but it's probably a transparent body. There are stories like this in the New Testament,
where Jesus comes in through a locked door. So, you know, it's the kind of body a ghost has.
And then, you know, those who are wise will shine like the brightness of the sky. They'll
become like the stars. And others then go to shame and everlasting contempt. So that in a way
is an early form of heaven and hell. As Daniel has it, I think it's experimental, you know,
that it's not fully worked out yet. Not everybody gets assigned either up or down,
but the very good go up, very bad go down. And there seems to be allowance that some people
just may not rise at all. So this makes me want to know maybe what influenced these ideas,
if it's Persian, if it's Greek or what, just fascinates me to wonder about this. But I don't
want to die on any hills of genetic connections or potential influence, because we don't have,
we can't be too confident on that. You know, there are some parallels in Greece
for the idea of astral immortality. But it wasn't all that common. Now, whether that
played a part in this, we don't really know. I think the main idea seems to be that they thought
people that the good would be taken up to join the heavenly host. And you get that also in the
book of Enoch. So my final assessment, as we're dealing with this, we've nailed Daniel. We didn't
get into how Daniel's using an already felled prophecy by Jeremiah, who kind of the can got
kicked down the road, if you will. And so they're now trying to make, you know, a fulfillment out
of the can. And now they got to kick other Jews and Christians later, they're taking the can that
was kicked down the road again of this felled prophecy and kind of redoing it. And that's
because there's still another way to put it, like the book of Revelation says, no more tears,
no more death, no more darkness, no more suffering, no more, because there is those
actual things in the world of these people. Technically, this still needs to be fulfilled,
cognitive dissonance. I don't need to go into what they do with felled prophecy here. But in
the book of Revelation, I know we're not nailing that. I'm getting Olivia to join me on a deep
dive, but I see a similar thrust. These predictions, hence at Jerusalem already being destroyed,
and the city where the Lord was crucified, Revelation 11. And I never was able to interview
your wife before she completely retired. But is there any teasing you can give us on what you
think Babylon is in Revelation 17? And it's like, there seems to be this thrust toward
predictive language in the visionary way in which this angel is portraying it to John about what
is soon to come using already happened stuff like the war. How do you interpret this?
In the book of Revelation, Babylon is obviously Rome. It's the city on seven hills. And it's
Babylon because Babylon destroyed Jerusalem. Therefore, Rome is the new Babylon.
What would you say to someone who says the zealots who took over the temple destroyed Jerusalem?
Bologna. You know, they may not have liked the zealots. They may not have approved of them.
But no, they were not the ones who destroyed Jerusalem. Would it be a red flag?
A huge tour de force to blame, to cast Babylon as symbolizing Jews. It doesn't make any sense.
And one more observation that I recently looked at that really made red flags,
because Revelation loves to quote scripture. And it does a midrashic kind of thing. And I
see Nebuchadnezzar as almost like a template where he's forcing them to worship him in his image.
And you get this language about this beast who's like demanding worship. And I thought,
because I've got people in the Preterist camps and online who want to say it's all Jerusalem,
Babylon's Jerusalem. They want to make everything Jerusalem. A lot of conservative Christians do
this that are Preterist, as you well know. And huge red flags to me is like, when did these Jews,
zealots, whatever you want to call them, Sakari, other people have different identities,
Steve Mason disagrees with them as being a category. Anyway, that they set themselves up as
God to be worshiped. That is not a true Jew would never like push that. I can see an emperor doing
that, or at least an imperial cult, but it just didn't make any sense to me either.
I mean, what you will find is that people think sometimes that the destruction of Jerusalem
was triggered by the zealots, by the impious actions that were done in Jerusalem. And therefore,
God allowed the Romans to destroy it. Got it. But you will not ever find them saying
that the zealots were the ones who destroyed it. Got it. Okay. So they could have played a part.
You are fantastic. On this business of reinterpretation,
are you familiar with Fourth Ezra? I am. I'm not as familiar, of course, like
off the top of my head and memorizing the whole thing, but I have read it.
Towards the end of Fourth Ezra, there are a few great visions, and then an angel explains them
to Ezra. And at one point it sees an eagle coming up out of the sea, which isn't a very
felicitous image in a way. It's heavy handed, but the eagle is Rome, obviously. And he says
to Daniel, now this, to Ezra, this is the fourth beast that I showed a vision to your
brother Daniel, but I didn't explain it to him the way I'm explaining it to you.
You know, that I think is beautiful. So thank you for reinterpreting.
Yes. You know what? I have to admit, as I was a fundamentalist most of my life, and I thought,
this is it, man. This is amazing. And then, you know, you grow up a little, you learn a little
bit more, you are willing to go beyond your comfort zone. And now I'm in love with this stuff
in a whole new light, because there's so much more depth to it, to me, to see how humans just
keep using these things and doing it. There's so many almost like treasure troves of secrets to
discover, if that makes any sense. Yeah, absolutely. Now, if we're talking about predictions in Daniel,
we've got to also deal with the ones that the book ends with. Please.
In chapter 12, from the time that the regular burnt offering is taken away and the abomination
that desolates is set up, there shall be 1,290 days. Now, you know, we know exactly when the
burnt offering was taken away. We may not know the exact date at this point, but we know the
year, certainly, and 1,290 days. And then the next verse says, happier those who persevere and
attain the 1,335 days. So you're given two different numbers. Why? You've referred to
cognitive dissonance and Leon Festinger's famous book, When Prophecy Fails. This is a well-known
phenomenon, say, with the Millerites and those people in the 19th century. If your prophecy
is not fulfilled, what's the first thing you do? Recalculate. You say, maybe I made a mistake in the
math. Maybe the Lord has given us an extension. And it takes quite a while before you come round
to saying, gee, I was wrong about that. You remember Harold Camping? Yes, sir. You know,
a little over 10 years ago, predicted the end of the world and some days in August. And, you know,
he was interviewed afterwards. If you know, if you know, Zeke Pistrup. Yes. Well, Zeke interviewed
him and Camping actually said, well, I guess I got that wrong. And I must say this increased my
respect for Harold Camping enormously. You know, he was a tart, an honest man, and he was able to admit
that he got some big wrong. But, you know, in the case of Daniel, Josephus, writing what was 200
years later, or a bit more, said, you know, Daniel was the greatest of the prophets. He not only said
what would happen, he said when it would happen. And you want to shake Josephus and say, but Josephus,
he got it wrong. And Josephus, I'm sure, would have said, oh, no, no, no, you just have to interpret it.
Another calculation. It's a mystery. And, you know, people have taken these numbers and reinterpreted
them in every century since then. And the 490 year, right? So. And, you know, one thing is
like with the Lord 1000 years as a day. Well, if that's the case, I mean, it could be quite a while
yet. Exactly. And didn't he end up drawing the conclusion that Vespasian was the predicted Messiah,
which was odd. Oh, Josephus, right, you know, at the reference was to an ambiguous oracle,
as he calls it, that a man from the east would rule the world. And we don't really know what that
oracle was or where he got it. But his stroke of genius, when he was captured by the Romans,
was to say, that's Vespasian. That is you, Vespasian. And Vespasian was impressed. And
indeed, Vespasian then became Roman emperor. And this proved that Josephus was a prophet.
Right. You know, this was a conversion like what we have seen with JD Vance, you know,
of somebody who goes from fighting the Romans to somebody who goes predicting the next ruler of the
world. Dr. Collins, there's so much to dive into with your works. I really appreciate this. We
now have high confidence we should. Daniel made predictions that did not come to pass at the end
there. You know, we didn't even really ask why this is written and what was, you know, a little
psychology. But, you know, I know that Jonathan Z Smith and others talk about this, you know,
blessed memory about the idea of why write apocalypses to begin with. And this one idea,
I'd like to end on this if you're okay with that. And that is a lot of people online have come up
with the idea that really it's Jerusalem. They see a constant condemnation of Jerusalem in the
Gospels. They think Paul's pro-Roman because in Romans 13 he says pay your taxes and God put
Romans in control. So they almost see this thrust mostly throughout the New Testament as if the
New Testament is just pro-Roman and anti-Jerusalem cult through and through, meaning they don't find
condemnation of Rome. And so they get to the book of Revelation and they interpret that same lens of
how can we fit this where Rome is not condemned and it all matches Jerusalem. And so they come up
with ideas even the Barker has made this attempt and such that the city on the seven hills, she's
looking for a Jerusalem that might have seven hills. She's trying to find evidence that supports that.
And what would you say? Save your time with Margaret Barker. I will. What do you think about
that whole notion? Because I personally understand why they wouldn't outright condemn. They killed.
This would be clearly treacherous to the empire, right? You know, I don't think there even being
all that subtle. Really? You know, the Babylon analogy is very blatant, very open. Well, at least
very open to any Jewish person. Now, the Romans, the whole thing that just sounded like gibberish
to the Romans. Forth Ezra, using the eagle is much more transparent. But now, you know, there was a
strong movement in New Testament scholarship in the first decade of this century of empire studies,
which was going to the opposite extreme. And Paul was anti-emperor. Jesus was anti-emperor.
And that too, I think, was a little bit off the deep end.
Like John Dominic Crossin kind of in a way.
He has in on it. Yes, eventually. Horrously would have been a more extreme proponent.
Got it.
No, you know, I mean, Horrously was an old 60s radical himself. Whereas Dominic really just
went with the fashion of the moment.
I've heard it was his experience in Ireland. And I think Dell Allison, Jr., when I talked to him,
kind of thought that maybe his issues with, you know, what has happened, Civil War in Ireland,
played maybe a role in some way to his interpretation.
Not that much with Dominic. I know Dominic very well.
Okay.
But I don't want to psychoanalyze.
Yeah, I don't want to get into discussing those. But I'm just saying that either both extremes are
wrong. No, okay. I mean, the book of Revelation is vehemently anti-Roman. I don't think there's
any doubt about that. And there isn't any doubt that Rome is what is being attacked.
Paul, I think, is much more subtle. Paul didn't want trouble with the Romans.
Therefore, he says, pay your taxes. For that of it, even Jesus said, pay your taxes.
He wasn't looking for confrontation. But they weren't pro-Roman or they weren't either really
pro or anti-Roman. I think they, you know, wanted to steer away from all of that.
But not the book of Revelation. The book of Revelation, I think, is quite open about it.
Wow. Thank you so much, Dr. John Jay Collins.
And Meredith, ladies and gentlemen, get his books. If you haven't,
where have you been on this planet? If you haven't read one of them, at least,
any final words from you to someone who might be researching apocalypticism,
investigating biblical studies, encouragement, anything, anything you'd like to add?
Look, it's great stuff. It's endlessly fascinating. And it's kind of fun besides,
you know, you'd better not take it too seriously. I'm not sure. You know, it's been said.
But one of the reasons why people wrote apocalypses was to have hope
in times when there was no hope. And so what they typically hope for is for the Son of Man
to come out the clouds of heaven, or the Archangel, Michael, to appear and solve their problems.
And while you think that that is going to happen, may give you great comfort,
if you come get into the state where you think it is actually happening,
you're in trouble. And there have been some notorious cases of that.
Right. You know, of people who think the end has come. That's the Millerite tragedy.
In that case, just to give people context. So, you know, some people sold their homes,
their farms, their livelihoods. And I think this happened with camping,
Harold's camping as well. Some of the devout followers believed it was happening and literally
got rid of their property. I mean, for sake, your goods, right? You're going to heaven, baby.
That's scary that people actually are being believed or believing this stuff, literally.
Keep it in the future. Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you. Bye.
