Dr. Delcey Allison, Jr., I want to know history or legend in the Gospel of
Matthew. You've written a commentary series on this particular Gospel, so I'd
like to know what happened and what didn't happen. But before you answer that
question, everybody, we recorded 830-minute, very high-quality recordings,
of course, on the quest for the historical Jesus, on Jesus Studies, New
Testament Studies, what's going on in the New Testament, many historical figures,
E.P. Sanders, John Dominic Crossen, all the way back to like, Switzer, David
Friedrich Stiles, back to the Protestant Reformation, and it's very detailed. Lots
of information in the packet. Eventually, we will do a Q&A session on Zoom for
those who actually sign up for the course. You will get notified of it. Go ahead and
jump on board. Apologies blown away by this course, so I hope you will as well.
Matthew, you've already mentioned, of course, the first few chapters, birth
narratives, that you would say, hey, I don't even touch this as if this is solid,
historical stuff. There could be memory, hey, we have parents' names, things like
that, but that could just be simply other sources where these figures, and
then we can kind of call narratives to kind of fulfill scripture, if you will,
in Matthew. What else in Matthew that really sticks out to you? I'm sure we
could go on forever about details when you wrote commentaries on this. What really
sticks out to you and goes, this sounds so heavily memetically connected to maybe
a trope that we find in the Hebrew scriptures that I just don't find this
historical. I find this more as beauty in the literature and comparison to
fulfill scripture. Well, so if you read Matthew's account of Jesus's death, this
is 2751 through 53, when Jesus dies, the sun goes dark, and then there's an
earthquake, and then graves are opened, and then people get out of their graves,
and after Jesus rises from the dead, they go into Jerusalem, and they introduce
themselves to people. Now, I think if this were true, this would be the most
astounding event in human history. That's the first thing. It would be more
astounding than Jesus's single resurrection, and I think it would have been
the centerpiece of early Christian apologetics, and there's nothing else
about it at all until we get Matthew. So I think that this is a legend. Not only
that, but you mentioned the scriptural business. So if you look at the language
carefully, my view is that Ezekiel 37 is echoed here. That's the story about the
bones being revived and brought back together, and early Jews understood this,
whatever the intention of the prophet Ezekiel, as a picture of the coming
eschatological resurrection. There's also language there from the end of
Zachariah, Zachariah 14, where the Mount of Olive splits on that day, and if you
know anything about Jewish tradition, including Jewish artistic tradition,
you will know that these two passages merge together, and what happens is the
Mount of Olive splits, and the dead come out, and actually the dead from all over
the world are rolling through underground tunnels so they can come out on the
Mount of Olives. And these are two texts about resurrection in the final day,
and Matthew's language echoes both of them. So he's plugging into this tradition
about end time resurrection. Really interesting. Why does he want to move the end time
resurrection, or part of it, to Jesus's end? That's an interesting question.
I don't know if you've ever been to Jerusalem, Derek, but if you stand on the Mount of Olives
and you look down to Jerusalem, the entire hillside is covered by graves. It's
covered by tombstones, and that's because of this text from Zachariah, because that's where
the resurrection of the dead is going to happen, or that's where it's going to begin,
and so people have wanted to be buried there for centuries. So I don't think that's history at all.
More importantly, I think that Christians have read it as history, and I think Matthew took
the story as history. I see nothing in his text that tells us he thought this was parabolic,
or haggotic. The other thing is less scripture, I mean it pops out as just the most obvious thing
at all, of all, is the guard at the tomb. So there's no guard at the tomb in Mark, no guard at the
tomb in Luke, no guard at the tomb in John, and this guard serves an obvious apologetical function.
It serves to disprove the possibility that Jesus's body was stolen by the disciples,
or by tomb robbers, and it just looks obviously apologetical to me, and if it were true, if there
were some memory there in Matthew, again I think it's inconceivable that there's no trace of this
in Mark, or Luke, or in John. So those are two things that come to mind.
One more, I suppose I could add. There are some details about the suicide of Judas in Matthew,
and if you look at Matthew's story, it's different than the story about Judas's end in Acts 1.
There's also a third version where he gets run over by a wagon in a tradition attached to
Papias. I think that early Christians probably didn't know what happened to Judas,
but they knew it must have been horrible, and so we've got two or three different versions of a
horrible end that came to him. So again, I don't see history there.
I must ask, one more while we're on Matthew moving into Mark, because I think this is
an important one. The way that the amount of transfiguration is portrayed in Matthew,
what do you do with that as we're transitioning into Mark? It's an interesting one.
Okay, so to my mind, this has a clear mosaic interpretation. So not only does Moses show up,
but if you go back to the Hebrew Bible, on Sinai, Moses glows, and when he's on Sinai,
a cloud comes down as happens in the Gospels, and God speaks from the cloud as happens in
the Gospels. Moses goes up into the mountain after six days on the seventh day. That's the
chronological note in Mark 9 that this event happened after six days. So you can go through,
and you can line up these parallels between Moses and Jesus. And you might say, as David
Friedrich Strauss said, you might say, well, that's the end of it. That's fine. Here's the odd
thing, and you're not going to hear this from anybody else, but you are going to hear it from me.
So if you know anything about Roman Catholic canonization proceedings, you will know that
tons of people have sworn under oath that they saw so-and-so glowing or shining. So when Catholics
get sainted, there's a process they go through, and they interview people who knew them looking for
signs of sanctity and so on. So lots of stories about glowing people are legends. No doubt about
that. No doubt about that at all. I can't tell you anything about the historicity of the tradition
that Francis of Assisi glowed. But here's the thing. Not only do we have these tons of first-hand
testimonies, but I've known two people personally who claim that they saw a religious saint or an
adept glow. So one of my friends was with a Sufi master once, and he was in a hotel room, and
they were the only ones there, and they were sitting opposite each other in lotus position
on mats, not saying anything. And he told me the story about how his face began to glow and glow
and it filled up the room. Okay, so maybe he was hallucinating, but it's very interesting that
he himself believed this. He was a friend of mine. He talked to me. I interviewed him about it and
so on. But here's the other thing. What do you do with this? So I have a son who practices Tibetan
Buddhism. And several years ago, he had an audience with two other people with one of these old
holy men from, you know, Tibet, some ancient of days who was revered by people. And they had an
audience with this character. And my son says that during this event, this conversation, that he
began to glow and that he began to glow and glow and glow and it was bright and so on. And my son
tells me that after they left, he and the two people he was with talked to each other and they
all said, yeah, we saw it. He was glowing. And of course, my son, he's my son. He's a rationalist.
He looks around. Is there sunshine coming through the window? What's going on here? He concluded
that it was actually coming from the person. So it's possible my son is lying to me, but I
actually think he's telling the truth. Now, I have no explanation for this whatsoever. But I have
decided myself that sometimes people see other people glow. I have no explanation for that.
And I do have a few stories of people in groups that see somebody supposedly glow. So here's
the possibility. I can't prove this. I don't even know what I think. But it's possible that you
could have some such experience like that, however you explain it, subjective, objective, whatever.
And I think if you had a story of somebody or who knows, maybe a couple of people
seeing Jesus glow at some point in time, it would then be written up in terms of
the memories of Moses. So this could be another story kind of like the baptism. I say, could be.
I can't prove this. I can't establish, but establish this. But it's something that people
don't think about enough because the people who argue that this happened typically are just Orthodox
Christians who want to just accept it as it was. And then there are the skeptics on the other side
who just say people don't glow and there's the end of it. I actually know that people at least
claim to see something like what you have in Mark 9. And it's a surprisingly well-attested
phenomenon. It must be pretty common if two people I know have told me about it. So
that's another possibility to throw in there. I think all the Mosaic things are there.
I think it's clearly been written up with this in mind. There's no way to show David Friedrich
Strauss was wrong and that that is the only root of this experience. But I could also see
something happening, some weird event happening, and then it'd be written up in terms of Mosaic motifs.
