Dr. Delcey Allison Jr. is going to answer our question today on history or not in the Gospel of John.
And as we get into this question, I first want to notify you about a course that we did.
We recorded on the quest for the historical Jesus.
You might be asking yourself, is this like a case trying to prove who the historical Jesus was?
No, this is more of a historical research showing you how scholarship from the Protestant Reformation
all the way to contemporary times is viewing the historical Jesus question,
how New Testament scholarship is approaching these biblical texts, how to understand them better.
So please sign up for the course that Dr. Allison has done with MVP courses.
It's in 4K. You'll own it for life. You're going to get tons of information.
There are going to be people you've never heard of and their arguments that have played a role
in how we've come to conclusions on interpretations and knowing what's going on in the New Testament.
You can't miss it. It's literally done by a Princeton University professor, Delcey Allison Jr.
You'll own it for life and eventually we will do a Q&A Zoom call question and answer type program.
So stay tuned and sign up now.
If I were to ask you, what are some things in the Gospel of John, we're just going to start with John,
that you would say that did not historically happen based on your research?
Historically, what would you say are some things in John that did not happen?
So I don't know what to do with, let's say, the wedding at Cana in John 2.
I've never paid any attention to it, never treated it as having any significant historical memory.
So I guess we can start with there.
But for me, it's actually not the stories. It's not the stories so much.
It's the way the discourses are developed.
So we have these very, very long discourses at points.
For example, we have 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, there's one long giant discourse.
And I think that these do work up or begin with or start from or incorporate things Jesus said here and there,
but these are the discourses of the evangelist.
And one of the things that is so telling to me is that there are a number of words,
just Greek words that are characteristic of the first gospel and that appear in the discourses attributed to Jesus.
And these words are also characteristic of the writer of first and second and third John.
So that tells me that there is a lot of rewriting going on.
I think that the discourses are the speeches of the evangelist.
Again, they seem at points to incorporate words of Jesus.
There are once in a while parallels with a synoptic saying.
Once in a while, you can say, yeah, this is exactly the same saying that we have over here at Matthew 10 or whatever.
But for the most part, these discourses are opportunities for the evangelist to expound his own theology.
It's sort of like what you have at points in Plato, I think, maybe, where at points he is starting with a memory of Socrates.
But the whole discourse itself is more Plato than it is Socrates.
You can even see this with, let's say, I think it's John 3 in modern translations of the Bible.
So Jesus is talking to Nicodemus and everybody knows that this begins as a speech of Jesus.
But by the time you get to the end of the chapter, it's clearly the evangelist who is speaking.
The question becomes, where is the transition?
And you can actually look at different translations and see that the quotation marks close at different places.
And what it means is that there is no clear place.
It's just sort of, it just becomes the evangelist.
And it's that way, I think, throughout this text.
And that's why this gospel, let's say, doesn't refer to the kingdom of God very often.
That seems to be characteristic of Jesus.
I think that's one of the things you have to say is characteristic of Jesus to judge by Matthew, Mark and Luke.
But the word itself, the phrase itself is only used twice, both in John 3 as it happens.
And you think that's because that phrase is not what the evangelist was using.
And he's not really reproducing or trying to reproduce here the speech of Jesus.
To go back to events, the gospels are full of exorcisms, right?
Matthew, Mark and Luke, Jesus is an exorcist.
It's one of the things he does.
He's an exorcist and teacher.
He's a teacher, healer and exorcist.
But in the gospel of John, he doesn't heal.
I mean, he doesn't cast out demons.
He doesn't fight demoniacs.
He doesn't exercise. He's not an exorcist.
I think that's because the evangelist himself, maybe he's uneasy with exorcism stories.
Maybe he just doesn't know what to do with him.
Who knows what the reason is.
But I think it's because it doesn't resonate with his own theology or his own literary aspirations.
Whatever it is, it's not there.
But I think that's missing a really important part of the historical Jesus.
And then I guess one other thing to say about John, if you look at the synoptics, especially Mark,
Jesus is very reticent to talk about himself in public.
And demons will say, you know, you're the Son of God, or I know who you are, the Holy One of God.
And he says, shut up.
And the disciples, you know, confess him and no, don't tell anybody.
So there's what the scholars call the messianic secret in the gospel of Mark.
There's this idea that Jesus doesn't publicly proclaim his exalted identity.
But in John, that there's no inhibition there.
And Jesus can say things in public like before Abraham was, I am.
So that's also the evangelist.
So the evangelist has this sort of freedom that Plato had.
And by the way, Plato knew Socrates.
So he's actually working with historical memory,
but he felt the freedom to use Socrates to express his own thoughts, his own theology and so on.
My view is that whoever is the author of the Fourth Gospel is writing towards the end of the first century
and has some new things to say and wants to reconceptualize the tradition, reinterpret certain things.
And so we're getting in these discourses, his own theology, much more than we are getting words of the historical Jesus.
Before we leave John, is John chapter 21, what do you make of this conundrum?
Well, so John 21, there are a couple of issues with it.
The first issue is whether it originally belonged to the Gospel.
And on stylistic, linguistic grounds, you can argue both ways.
I'm inclined to think that it's a secondary edition.
But sometimes authors in antiquity, you're published more than one edition of a book.
So maybe it's secondary, but that doesn't mean it's from the author.
I don't know. It may be from somebody else after the author is done or died.
So that's the first question. Did it belong with the first edition of John or the earliest or an earlier edition of John?
I'm inclined to think it's a secondary edition.
But the next thing that's so odd about it is that the disciples are back on the Sea of Galilee and they're fishing.
But in the previous chapter, John 20, in the original ending, Jesus has appeared to them and commissioned them.
And you'd think everything is underway.
We're just getting ready for Pentecost.
But in John 21, it's like he hasn't even appeared yet.
So what possibility to which I am attracted is that John 21 incorporates the memory of the appearance
to the 12, which Paul refers to in 1 Corinthians 15, another version of which is in Matthew 28, where it appears in Galilee,
although it's not a seaside story, it's on a mountain.
I think it may well be that this is a version of the first appearance.
And it doesn't fit so well in John because the first appearance to the 12 is in Jerusalem in the first week after the crucifixion.
So that's my best guess.
This is also really complicated because the story of John 21 is very close to the story of Peter's calling in Luke 5.
And that version of the story is in the middle of our, in the middle of Jesus's history.
So one possibility here is that Luke also knows this story.
But since he wants to put the resurrection appearances in Jerusalem, there's nothing that he can do with this story,
except somehow move it into the ministry of Jesus and combine it with the story of Mark.
Anyway, that speculation is very difficult, very complicated, but that's my best guess.
It's secondary and is probably a version of the first appearance, which probably took place in Galilee.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
Thank you for watching.
