Dr. Delcey Allison Jr., last of all,
the epistles of Paul, the letters of Paul,
are these loaded with legend or are they history?
How do you understand the letters of Paul
through a few things at you?
But before we do, I hope people will sign up for our course.
It helps support what you're doing.
It helps support what we're doing
in getting this education out there to a larger audience.
You are a Princeton professor,
so I hope people will actually go and sign up
and check out what you do in this course.
The quest for the historical Jesus
and understand how we got to where we are today
in New Testament studies, last one,
and this is where we're peeling back the layers
to try and get close.
I asked Paula Fredrickson,
Dr. Fredrickson, is there anything that you would say,
what's a good way of trying to figure out
about the historical Jesus, right?
Since your course is on the quest for the historical Jesus,
she says, well, I would draw a line backwards
from the gospels down into Paul
and try to anchor it that way the best you can.
She said, if there's one thing,
if I were to put a high amount of certainty
or confidence in it's that Jesus was crucified.
Other than that, she said,
I just wouldn't put any overwhelming confidence in.
I could say, I think this or I think that
and you're so well.
I actually value that about you,
so please don't take any way that you're letting me down.
If anything, this is how I think.
I'm with you on this,
so knowing what did or didn't happen.
You and me both can play the sandbox game.
We get in the sandbox.
We can hypothetically say, well, if that happened,
then this could be the case, and I like that.
So Paul, I just recently read Richard C. Miller's book,
Resurrection and Reception in Early Christianity.
Have you read that book yet?
What was it published?
Where are you set?
No, wait on, so look, I've probably read so much.
I can't recall things by now.
I may have a footnote on that somewhere, but I may not.
Yet, I can't keep track of names anymore.
I'm sorry, I have to.
It's a Rutledge publication,
and he published this, looking at it right now.
Bear with me, I apologize.
Rutledge 2015, and...
I probably looked at it then, but I can give you the gist
of his argument while he tells you Justin's confession.
I'll give you the breakdown, evil demons,
Zeus's other sons, proper inference, translation fables,
and Hellenistic and Roman antiquity.
In that entire chapter, he literally lists hundreds
of missing bodies from figures in the Greco-Roman world,
whether they disappear into a river,
into Zeus's lightning bolt, in a battle, whatever it might be,
and there are hundreds of them he lists
that make the missing body idea something
that is relevant in that world.
Critical method in the Gospels, of course,
he really spends a lot of time about language
and how it's anchored into the end of the...
It's like today, if I said some things I wrote a book,
you would pretty much, you could probably dissect it
if you're forensic enough,
and know that I'm writing around 2022, 2023,
due to whatever inference the language is anchored
into the time in which it's being written.
He wants to do that because he wants to show
how it connects to the Greek and Roman world,
and then he goes into translation fables
in the Gospels in the last chapter.
Critical method in the Gospels,
then translation fables in the Gospels,
and he wants to tie it in.
I say all that to say, he points,
whether you agree with this position
that Justin, Martyr, Origen, and others
who compare Jesus in some ways in their apologies
to the sons of Zeus and saying,
hey, look, you have eyewitnesses about Caesars
that are having apotheosis,
like you have all these things.
We're the ones that are hated though,
and it sucks that that's how it was,
but he's kind of trying to analogize, at least,
what they're believing about Jesus and how it's similar.
Like the ascension of Jesus in Acts,
it looks like the kind of like what Romulus has.
He literally is in a cloud.
Have you done any comparison about that?
Yeah, I don't think that's history,
and I do think that that's a place
where Greco-Roman parallels are probably,
I'll probably offer the best explanation.
You know, I don't know, I hate to say this
because I do look at books,
I even sometimes write about books,
and given my memory these days, I just go on
and then I can't recall what I did.
But when I discuss the empty tomb,
I do list, and refer to lots of stories
about missing bodies of certain figures
in the Greco-Roman or even ancient Near Eastern world,
and even later Christianity.
And my conclusion is that this is the strongest argument
against a historical empty tomb,
and it is something that should trouble the apologist.
And it's one of the reasons that I'm not sure
of my own tentative conclusion on this.
I argue in the book, I think the tomb
was more likely than not empty,
and then I give lots of reasons.
But I also say that this is a very good argument
on the other side.
If I can go back to Paul and just make one comment,
or one assessment and then get your thoughts.
I've always read, when I read Paul,
I think this is bedrock, meaning this happened.
And it was until recently that Richard Miller
brought it to my attention when he said,
Derek, he's kind of like, he thinks more in poetic,
meta-narrative, there's meaning in stories
and in tropes and things like that,
more than if it happened, then it means something.
If it didn't happen, it doesn't.
And so the point is, I started to reread
First Corinthians 15, even the,
he appeared to so-and-so and he appeared to me,
and I'm not ruling out historical kernel, okay, memory.
I'm saying, I'm wondering if this creed itself
has come, has taken upon legend itself in some way.
Cause when we do look at other stories,
I can't, there's no way to prove it or not prove it.
But when I look at other narratives about Romulus
having eyewitness testimony of Proculus Julius or whatever,
and then I also know that there are narratives with Caesars
having the Potheosis three days, four days after they die,
and then sometimes they would even hire someone,
it sounds like, or maybe they paid them
after the fact about coming forward.
So it's like, hey, good boy, here's 250 Denarii,
like 200,000 Denarii, but like, I'm not saying
that that's what's going on with the early Christians.
I'm simply saying, it seems like if you're gonna have
a deification, apotheosis narrative,
as we see in 1 Corinthians 15,
having eyewitnesses is an important facet to that story.
If I use the word story or your narrative
that you're trying to convey.
But that's part of apologetics
for every controversial historical event.
So that's not confined to that.
This is just human nature.
And when you have something controversial
or something important, wherever you are in our time
and place, for example, you want to get to eyewitnesses.
So I don't see that as special to that event.
But going back to the story thing,
I'm not sure why that was about.
I must have misheard because I always thought
that at least the Paul of the letters can't,
he doesn't tell stories.
He doesn't tell stories at all.
And I've never thought of 1 Corinthians 15 as a story.
I've often thought-
I'm looking at it as like, he's giving the gospel message,
the narrative, I mean, and when I say story is,
here is Jesus's gospel, right?
He died, it's the topos of how one is in Christ,
how one is to, what is going to come.
The cosmic transformation of all things
that are, it's very theological.
So I wondered, I'm not reading it
like I would say a gospel narrative necessarily,
but I'm wondering if this formula here
that he mentioned since 1 Corinthians
is kind of fitting into,
here's a polished trope about our early movement
and it's reliable, you should trust this, Jesus rose
and he's giving that rather than reading it in the literal,
this is exactly what happened kind of way.
Well, he's not, oh, okay.
I don't know, I'm pouring it out there.
He's just not giving any details.
First of all, again, I may be misunderstanding
something here, but Paul doesn't just say
that he is passing this on, he says he receives it.
So it sounds like this is tradition
and most people have thought that the pieces of this
must be traditional and that Paul is not composing this.
So I've never actually thought of this as Paul's.
I thought that Paul may be adding at the end,
the appearance to all the apostles
than his own thing, or maybe he's inserting the 500,
but I think that the main clauses here
are some kind of formula and of course,
of course you want, if you're a new religious movement
and you're making controversial claims,
of course you want to have something like eyewitnesses,
but you do for everything.
The gospel of John wants this, Luke one wants that.
It's just what you do, isn't it?
So I totally agree.
To give an example, when you mentioned
for I received from the Lord what I passed on to you,
the Lord Jesus on the night he was betrayed,
this is 1 Corinthians 11.
1 Corinthians 15, for what I received, I passed on to you.
I tend to think that this could be earlier traditions
from Christians that gave it to Paul,
especially when he lists them and he says,
he appeared first to so and so
and last to all me kind of stuff.
But when I read this, and I had Robin Faith Walsh recently
on 1 Corinthians 11, for I received from the Lord
what I also passed on to you, the Lord Jesus.
So she says that this narrative about the Last Supper,
nowhere in Paul implies that he got this
from someone else other than Jesus.
And this is the resurrected Lord that's talking to him.
So he's saying like, I received this from the Lord
that on the night he was betrayed, took bread.
And I think Bart Ehrman did a good article saying
this is God betraying him, not Judas necessarily.
So there might be some literary reasons
or some reasons to make Judas the guy.
But either way, God's actively involved in the crucifixion
according to the narratives of the Gospels.
So I'm reading this and I'm going,
he received this from the Lord.
He doesn't say he got this from the earlier disciples.
I'm wondering if 1 Corinthians 15
could be something similar.
There's no way to know.
So first of all, I know the hypothesis you're talking about,
it's also been argued for by Francis Watson.
And if you go back far enough,
you can find people in 19th century arguing this
and probably before that.
But what it does require is it does require
that the texts in Matthew, Mark and Luke
have to be ultimately dependent upon Paul.
And I don't buy that.
I don't buy that the one place we have a detailed speech
of Jesus is the one place where the gospel writers
are dependent on Paul because they're not dependent on Paul
for most of the material.
I'll receive this and as a personal revelation,
it makes everybody dependent upon Paul,
but it looks to me like Matthew is not a text
that depends upon Paul, for example.
Could Mark be dependent on Paul
and Matthew and Luke are using that
through Mark they're getting Paul?
No, I don't.
So I actually think that Paul is an influence on Mark,
but I don't think he's the source of these words.
I don't think this is how Mark is using Paul.
The same thing with Luke.
But with regard to 1 Corinthians 15,
that wouldn't make any sense to me
just because he refers to the appearances to James
and the appearances to Peter.
And he knows these two people personally.
It would be really weird, I think,
to think that he got this information about them,
never talked to them about it,
or whatever, it just, he knows these people.
He's talked to them, he's fought with them
and with their followers.
So I don't see any reason to posit such a thing.
If he knows the people he's talking about,
then the information is either from them
or at least consistent with his conversations with them.
There's no way that this is a heavenly revelation.
It doesn't make any sense to me.
Thank you, yeah.
So I don't think it's heavenly.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on this.
And I'm with you.
I don't think it needs to be,
oh, it's all concocted or created.
I think there's possibly in some way
a blend of stuff that could be occurring here.
And I definitely think that there were early Christians
who actually believed that they saw the risen Lord
in their minds.
I mean, whether you think that's literally the case
or you think there are alternative explanations
that best suit the data, either way,
I just figure it fits a common theme.
As you said, it's ubiquitous, right?
We all want eyewitnesses to something.
At least it'll help us.
So maybe that isn't necessarily part of a trope.
I kind of wondered with him having the,
he's buried and then he, of course, apotheosis in Paul.
This is something that does fit
within that Greek Roman world.
And Paul seems to be using rhetoric oftentimes from this.
So I don't know where I've not studied in depth.
I'm not a scholar like you.
I wish I learned the Greek and maybe one day I will
and dive deep into this to kind of wonder,
what is Paul doing even here?
Because notice we went backwards.
We went from like highly theological legendary John
to getting to closer to what we would say
to the earliest Jesus movement.
Then we go to Paul and they're building on Paul,
using them somehow, I would say, at least Mark is,
but I'm wondering if what we can say about this creed.
Have you heard any scholars out there that try to say
that even the creeds legendary or something?
Well, yeah, I've known, yes, I've known,
I know the thesis that this is an interpolation,
that this is not Paul, that this is secondary after Paul.
But to my knowledge, there's only one living person
who thinks that.
And I read his article on this.
I wasn't persuaded by this.
Yes, there's so much to be said here.
So again, Paul is like Luke.
Paul has a Greek education
because he's writing in Greek, right?
So he has to know a lot of the literature
and he lives in the diaspora
and the Greek world is everywhere.
But this of the formula plus a dative,
he appeared to Cephas and then so on.
I'm sure you can find parallels to that in the Greek world,
but this is also a formula of theophanies
in the Septuagint, that is when the Lord appears to,
Corius appears to so and so, appeared to Abraham,
appeared to David, and this is that formula also.
And again, while you don't want,
you can't draw these walls of distinctions,
but given that when Paul,
even though you can find Paul alluding to,
let's say a Greek author now and then
or he's using a Greek trope,
it is still the case that he's quoting
from the Septuagint page, right?
So that's his primary text or primary influence.
And so if I see parallels with that,
that's gonna be my first thought
and then the other parallels are gonna be secondary to that
because the one thing I know for certain,
I know he's living in this text,
he might even have copies of these things, I don't know.
And Sanders thought he had these things memorized
that he was in fact some kind of rabbi
and he just had these texts memorized in his head.
How much of Greek tradition he would have memorized
like that, I have no idea.
But he says he was a Pharisee and Pharisee sat around
and I'm pretty sure memorized large bodies of literature
and it would have been biblical literature first of all.
I'm with you, thank you.
And I think if we're going to do this, you're right.
I think the lesson is be fair in recognizing
both worlds play a role
because it's not like an either or.
However, I would say it's a little more heavy-handed
on biblical literature being that is the tradition
they're working within.
So Hellenism penetrated everything.
Even the people in Kumeran had like extremely
Hellenistic views and yet they were obviously Biblicists.
Dr. Allison, real quick, oh, go ahead.
I was just gonna add one thing and I'm never gonna do it.
I started if once and got a little ways,
but we're always wondering about the meaning
of these parallels, right?
And I've always thought it would be really helpful
if somebody would go through a body of literature
that can't possibly have any connection to,
let's say early Christian literature
and hunt for all the parallels.
I would love to see somebody go through
early Confucian literature
and all the saints attributed to Confucius
and all the stories about Confucius.
And I would like for somebody to show us all of the parallels
and I'll bet many of them would be astounding
and we'd say, oh, wow.
And if these parallels existed,
let's say in the Greco-Roman world,
we'd say, oh my goodness, look at that.
The same thing with early Buddhist traditions.
I would love for somebody to look at Buddhist texts
from a certain time and place where we know
there's no interaction with Western religious texts
and then look at all the parallels.
I'll bet we could find them.
And when we do that sort of experiment,
then it would make us a little more cautious
or raise questions or we'd have to be more sophisticated
about method.
Several times I've actually,
I do this a couple of times in the book on resurrection.
I have deliberately said, okay,
somebody's come up with a list of,
let's say parallels between the burial
of Jesus by Joseph of Arimathea
and some passage in Judges, right?
And look at them and I say, well, okay,
I'm gonna come up with parallels between this
and in that book, I remember, hey,
Joseph buries somebody at the end of Genesis
and I'll see what I can come up with.
And I came up with fantastic parallels
and I just made it up.
And I've done this several times.
I've just said, okay, somebody's looking
at these parallels between this and this.
So I'm gonna take this and I'm just gonna draw
out of a hat some passage in numbers or whatever it is.
And I'm gonna show all the parallels and I've done it.
And it really does make you think second thoughts
about what we're doing with parallels.
And this is in part why I'm so cautious here
because when I do read Paul or let's say Matthew,
especially Matthew, I do know that these people
are constantly thinking in biblical texts, right?
So that's always gonna be my first go to.
It doesn't mean that's all they went to.
And it doesn't mean I should stop my attention there,
but it's always gonna be the first thing
that I'm gonna think about because you can do anything
with statistics and you can do anything with parallels.
It's the same game.
I'm with you and I think if you're going to do it,
there is parallel, parallelomania.
I also coined this with Dennis MacDonald and others.
There's parallelophobia.
And I think if we're gonna do the exercise,
we shouldn't like we do historical research.
You were probabilistic, right?
And if you have good methodology,
you could say, hey, this could be the case,
but just don't go out there in any dogmatic way,
assuming this is a parallel because some of this stuff,
as I think you're right, is ubiquitous
to the human consciousness, to our experience.
We all die, we all live, we're all born.
And so we really should approach these things open-minded,
but also understanding if you're gonna start making claims,
be very conscious in the methodology you're using
because we can come up with anything.
Dr. Allison, your course was fantastic
and I hope that people will go through.
It was 4K, your books also are accompanying that course.
So I hope people will get them and follow along.
Is there any words you'd like to say before we go?
No, I just appreciate talking to you.
This is fun.
These are both fascinating topic.
I'm sorry, not both.
These are fun, fascinating, and important topics.
Thank you so much, everybody.
Go sign up for the course.
And maybe if we get enough people
to come and sign up for the course,
maybe down the road we could do a webinar Q&A
with Dr. Allison.
I don't know, how does that sound to you, Dr. Allison?
I'm up for it if you are.
Let's do it.
Get the books, check out the course.
Thank you, everybody.
