So the final question I have in this, and this is something I think I'm sure you'll share my struggle in terms of when you think about
Mythicism, yeah, when the Gospels come up. This is the thing, you know, I already mentioned we don't have you know
What we're packaged to read Matthew to Revelation, right?
We aren't packaged to read life of Adam and Eve all of this other background information book of Enoch
Absolutely necessary. Yeah in order to get the mindset of someone like Paul or even to have an idea
maybe what Paul yeah, but
Do you feel and I'd love to hear your struggle with this
How much of a pain in the ass it is trying to promote or even say look mythicism seems to be the most plausible
Because the Gospels already
They paint this picture and so you have scholars like Delcey Allison, for example, he said on it on the air
I asked him Paul's vision of the resurrected Christ
Resurrected Jesus. Do you think that Paul thought Jesus bodily rose as in like physically or do you think this is some like?
What Jim Tabor when I interviewed him he says look, this is a spiritual body
It's not complete flesh and blood. No, he says flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom
Okay, but it's another type of body whatever it might be it might glow
It's important to make that distinction that it's a bodily resurrection either way
But I think the distinction is flash is the flash or is it a new body is the flesh left behind that's the question
So this is the thing Delcey Allison said and you'll see what I'm saying about this whole Gospels
Sticks this wrench in mythicism in a way and it doesn't mean it disproves it
What I mean is it causes hindering for people to understand the mythicism and how this makes sense is that Del Allison said well
I think Paul's vision of a resurrection. He says he was buried
It's not that far off to say if he was buried
Mark says he was buried and he rose from a tomb so like he has this continuity
concept as most Christians see a continuity and
Disconnecting Paul from gospel ideas right is so complex to go. Okay, look you got a Pontus pilot narrative here
He's killed and crucified by Pontus, but what are you doing is Pontus pilot in the first heaven here?
Yeah, like way and that is the hard part
That's why it's so essential to understand the mythographic style of the way the Gospels are composed
Which also requires context again understanding context
You got to look at if you really want to understand what it means to have a mythic hero historicized
You should read the stories of all the mythic heroes historicize it
So we have a life of Romulus by Plutarch. It looks exactly like the biography of real people
He has a biography of Caesar. It looks exactly the same, right?
You know, it's very similar in the construction the way they were tell these stories and so you would ask like
Why would they make up all this historical stuff about Romulus?
Why would they write about it like it's a historical biography when he never existed?
You have to you have to understand the mindset of what they're doing here. What is the what is going on here?
What what is the purpose of this life and the biography of it and why are they cat? Why they're packaging packaging it that way
And then the fact that this was common
You pick any non-existent hero who's historicized. They're about about their Gospels of them, right?
So you're like Plutarch talks about the lives that were written of Osiris and then any quotes and actually cites the things
That happened events in his life and struggles. He went through and stuff like that while at the same time Plutarch says yes, but all that's
Front allegorates all symbolism meant to to prevent outsiders from understanding the truth
The truth is that Osiris was actually killed by the equivalent of Satan
In the outer space below the moon just it's basically the exact same model that I think Doherty is right about for Jesus
I think they borrow the same idea
Osiris has actually descends becomes incarnate in a body of flesh and is killed by set
Up up in the heavens and then resurrects becomes triumphant and ascends again and you only know this
Spiritually you can't no one was there to go witness it because it didn't happen down here
And then but yet they go around telling the story of the death and resurrection of Osiris as an earthly event as a pharaoh who gets killed by
You know an enemy and stuff like that
That's normal. That's the thing is you gotta understand
That's actually the ordinary way that's going on and people are writing about mythic heroes in this time
So when when you look at like marks doing the same thing he's doing the same thing
Clutarch did with Romulus is doing the same thing that the Egyptian priest did with the story of Osiris pick anybody
They're doing the same thing
And then of course that becomes more obvious. So that's the context. So the context already tells you that okay
It's already possible that marks doing the same stuff
Now the evidence you go and look at the evidence and you can confirm that this is what mark is doing because
You go through it and you analyze story from story to story and the structure of the stories
This is where I go into in chapter 10 and on the historicity of Jesus
You see that mark is literally crafting the entire thing as a parable
He wants it's the message not the literal events that matter for him
It's you're supposed to get the point of the story
You're not supposed to go around like a fundamentalist insisting that it historically happened because the true insider knows
It's it's the superficial story is not the actual meaning of the story. The story is what is it conveying?
What is the message of it?
So when you get to like mark talking about the empty tomb
This is all symbol like and he the actually it's often been denied
But you can find he's got illusions from scripture that he's constructing out of
He's getting material from pagan literature too about empty tomb stories and stuff
He's actually pulling this stuff together and creating his own basically tale. It's a tall tale that he's telling
But the reason he's picking pieces they're not arbitrary. It's not just arbitrarily copying stuff
He's choosing everything he chooses to assemble from other sources to assemble his story out of
Has a purpose it has a communicative meaning that you would theoretically at the time preach from
You probably wouldn't preach to the public you would preach in to congregations to insiders, right?
At this time when when mark is publishing
So the it would be like jesus he mark for has jesus say this like to outsiders
I'm telling these stories, but to you guys i'm going to take you aside and in private
I'm going to tell you the true meaning of the stories. Don't be deceived by the outside superficial stories
You know when I talk about a guy met a guy. I don't mean that actually happened
I mean, I'm there's some sort of symbolic meaning here. You have to get
So mark has jesus say this outright to insiders. So that's the model for the christian church at his time is
Insiders are going to get the truth
Outsiders are going to be told a sort of fictional story and and they're supposed to believe it as true
But that makes them the damned, right? They're the ones who are going to be distracted by this
Superficial historical story and be never get the truth, but the insiders are going to be given the truth
Is the symbolic meaning is the truth, right? So this is when mark is writing. It's obvious
He tells us practically that and by having jesus say this in chapter 4
So when he's doing the empty tomb, he's not really intending you to think that there was actually an empty tomb
That's not relevant. He's not quite citing sources. He's not saying well the women were there and told me he doesn't say that
No, he's this is a story and the women run away, right?
And so there is a use of the story in literalist context, right?
Because people will point out that having the women run away and never tell anyone
Would explain why no one's ever heard of this empty tomb before
So it has utility for selling the literal story. It's still a fake story. It's completely made up
But I think the insider is supposed to get that there's this that you're if you think this is about an empty tomb
You're completely missing the point, right? This this is a symbol for the land of the dead
It's a symbol for jesus a triumph and and what that's death and triumph means because there's out illusions to
For example in that chapter that we'd mentioned before in on the history. I'm sorry in the empty tomb
On the spiritual body of christ
I have the whole section on the legend of the empty tomb and I show like there's definite illusions to
jacob's well, so basically uh mark is crafting the story to make the empty tomb
Allude to jacob's well the jacob's well story
And so an insider is supposed to catch that
And then go back or they probably wouldn't have to because they already know the story
But they could go back to the story of jacob's well
Where it's about how basically it's an analogy to the water of life will save israel and stuff like that
So this is jacob's well the empty tomb is jacob's well out of the death of jesus will be the salvation of is of israel
The new israel in their perspective
So you get all these they're they're symbolical purposes, right? It's not history
Once you see that then now we have the the context of yes
This is what's done to construct mythical historical stories about non-existent people
And then here we have internal evidence. This is exactly what mark is doing
And once you have that there's there's just nothing left
There's no thing to argue from is like well, maybe there's something historical and mark
So well, yes, maybe but
We have no evidence of that and all the evidence is perfectly well explained by it not being the case but mark just coming up with it
