Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
There is something very special about today's episode,
a unique course with Dr. Bart D. Airman
and Dr. Javad T. Hashmi.
We have a New Testament scholar
who's doing a historical critical approach on the Gospels.
Do I need to introduce him?
As you know, everybody has seen Bart Airman.
But there's another scholar I wanna highlight
coming from the Quran
and historical critical method applied to Islam,
its early sources.
How do we understand that?
And a lot of people don't realize
that the practices we find in the New Testament
and how we apply these things to the Bible
are also being practiced on the Holy Quran.
So with that being said, welcome to MythVision.
How are you, Dr. Javad and Bart?
I'm doing fantastic.
Thank you so much.
Thanks for having me.
It's an honor to be on with you.
And of course with the esteemed Sheikh Bart Airman.
It's a pleasure.
Thank you.
Thank you both.
It's good to be with the two of you.
I really appreciate you both taking the time
to join me today and discuss about this project.
This never been done in the public eye, it seems.
And before we do, I wanna just say upfront,
humans have crafted stories to give meaning and value
to origin of identity, their group, lessons.
We do it today in fictional movies and things like that.
And one of the things I seriously value about you, Javad,
is that you're recognizing what I think is obvious to most,
but because this is such a sacred area
and there's been a longstanding tradition
on how we should evaluate the Quran,
you're just coming out saying I find legend
and story in the Quran,
but how you interpret that is unique.
And so I have to highlight that with you
because Bart Airman, as everyone knows,
has long told there are legends,
there are stories, there's some fiction we find
in the Gospels and the New Testament,
just take any of his courses and you find out.
So I figure let's jump right in the deep end
and talk about legends, if you don't mind.
Sure, yeah, go for it.
So what's the exact question though?
Are there legends in the Quran?
Well, that's what the course is about.
So you're now going straight to the conclusion.
That's what the course is gonna explore.
So yes, that is my own conclusion
and that's from a decade of study
that I've had to change,
swallow a lot of bullets, I would say.
That's the experience that I've had
from studying the historical critical approach.
But in this course, I hope to overview
all of the different viewpoints on this issue,
including the kind of Islamic traditionalist idea
that I grew up with.
And then what are the problems with that
and how do people reconcile that?
And then eventually I'll say,
okay, this is what I landed upon,
but I don't wanna make the course just what I think.
It's about the different viewpoints.
Turning the question to you, Bart,
and then you could guess or note,
does the New Testament have legends about Jesus?
I thought you were gonna ask me if the Quran does.
I think you turned it on me.
Right?
Part of the issue is how you define legend.
You don't know how you differentiate that from myth,
for example, or fable or story or fiction.
So I usually define a legend as a fictional count
about a historical figure.
And so I think there are legends about George Washington,
for example, and I think that there are definitely legends
about Jesus in the New Testament,
by which I mean that there are narrations of things
that he did, for example,
that I don't think historically happened,
but storytellers are telling these episodes
for particular reasons, often for religious reasons.
And so you don't get that with George Washington per se.
You don't get legends about him to support religion,
but you do get legends about George Washington
because of who he was,
the founder of the father of our country.
And so legends about him tend to support
an understanding of America in a certain way.
Legends about Jesus tend to support
understandings of the significance of Jesus
religiously in certain ways.
And so I would say that they do function similarly.
And I definitely do think that there is that kind of thing
in the New Testament.
I wanna go to your course
that both you gentlemen are participating in for one second
and highlight what I think is an interesting angle.
And that is the Bible and the Quran
comparing their historical problems.
Now, we can't give away the course
because that would take eight lectures to do
and you gotta sign up to do it.
Tell us, what was your intention?
What did both you gentlemen have in mind
when you said let's approach this
from both sacred pieces of literature
and we need to educate the world on this.
What is it that you had in mind?
So if I could take the first stab at that,
I approached Bart on this because,
and that's why I call them Sheikh Bart-Ehrman
is because I noticed that a lot of my fellow Muslims
love Bart-Ehrman's course and I'm one of them, of course.
I mean, his material.
But I don't think many of them think about
if we take the same historical approach
and apply it to our own sources, our own scripture,
well, what is that gonna look like?
And so that's kind of the impetus behind me asking Bart,
hey, let's teach this course
because I think some of those conclusions,
like I said, there gonna be some tough bullets
for Muslims to swallow.
Now, I don't think that that'll be the end of faith
or anything like that,
but I think it is some soul searching
and existential crises that will take place
if you do that.
Yeah, so on my part,
Javad came up to me sort of out of the blue
at a professional conference and introduced himself
and said what he did.
And he probably came up with the idea of doing this course.
And I think, wow, that's interesting.
And for me, it's interesting because,
well, for several reasons.
I mean, for a long time now I've talked
and written about problems with the New Testament.
And it's been very interesting,
Javad, I don't think I told you this,
but I've had two groups of people, especially,
who seem to really like my work and want to use it.
And the groups are Muslims and Mormons.
And I wish there were a third
because as a good evangelical,
I like to have a relation with three things,
but the Methodists just, they don't go for it as much.
Some do, it's okay, but Mormons are Muslims.
And in both cases, when people who've talked to me
about it from those communities,
it's been because they see then the New Testament
standing in contrast with their own scriptures.
And so Mormons say, yeah,
there may be problems with the New Testament,
but the Book of Mormon, man, that is, there you go.
And Muslims will say, well, yeah,
you got all these scribes are changing everything
at the New Testament, but not the Quran.
We know exactly what it was originally said.
There are no errors in it.
And you need to convert the problem you gave up
on Christianity, you need to come to Islam, man.
And so I thought, wow, it'd be really interesting
to have the two of us, we're not gonna have, of course,
we're not gonna have exactly the same problems.
We're not gonna have the same extent of problems.
But to have someone talk about the historical issues
with the Quran on the same topics
that I'm talking about historical issues
with the New Testament,
I just think that's gonna be exceedingly interesting.
In Urdu, we have the saying, I'll translate it,
sounds funny in English, but it's basically saying
that you're cutting your own feet with the ax.
And basically, what I'm trying to say is,
when it comes to, I think Bart nailed it,
that it's Muslims taking what Bart's saying
about the Bible and saying, haha, look at their Bible,
look how bad it is, and look how great our Quran is.
But that has like two negative effects, I think,
that Muslims don't really think about.
And that's where I'm saying they're cutting
their own feet is, number one is,
I actually think the Quran, from a critical standpoint,
if you read it, most critical scholars seem to think
that the Quran doesn't really say
that the previous scriptures are corrupted.
I think on my reading, it's actually saying
that they are good to follow, that you should follow them.
There's verses that explicitly say to Jews and Christians
that they should follow their Torah and the gospel.
So if you're attacking the Torah and the gospel
and the Quran is saying to follow them,
that's something to think about there.
And then number two is actually in this comparison,
this polemical way, Muslims have changed
their own theology almost by saying that,
by hyper-exaggerating the difference
between the Quran and the Bible,
so that you grew up with this,
I grew up with this idea that no two Qurans,
anywhere in the world, differ even letter and dot.
And I do think that's a very modern argument.
And that came about, I think,
in polemical discussions with Christians,
where they were trying to,
they were reading this critical scholarship
when it came to the Bible,
and then they wanted to make a comparison to the Quran.
And in that process, they kind of exaggerated
the claims about the Quran.
No, no, Jer, Jer, I was just gonna say,
you know, during this course,
one of the fun things is gonna be that,
you know, I'll give a lecture on the New Testament topic,
he'll do the Quran talk,
and then we're gonna talk to each other about it.
And so like when he says something like that,
and I wanted to dig in, you find out more.
And so we're gonna have a chance to do that,
plus a Q and A,
people are gonna be able to ask questions too.
So yeah, okay, sorry, I just wanted to show you.
This is perfect.
That means-
We're gonna get the next dialogue as well.
That means sign up, everybody.
You gotta sign up for this.
So, Javad, it's like saying,
are there scientific miracles in the Quran, right?
This is a recent development,
a post-enlightenment kind of thing, I think,
where we're forced or feeling coerced by society
and the ideas we have to like put these like rules
and structures that were never there
by these original authors.
And so that leads me to the highlight, I guess,
of your course, which is the historical problems.
And I say problems with a double edged sword,
as you pointed out with the ax cutting the feet,
is that while it's a problem,
or we can point out problems,
or the mundane facts that we might find
from historical method, it also might be a solution.
So I guess what I'm saying is,
is many people will go to the New Testament and find flaws.
But sometimes that historical critical method
can get you back to maybe what Jesus did.
And I'll give you an example on that,
looking at the New Testament to get you to maybe comment
briefly on this, is that when I look at the historical Jesus
based on the best research I can pick up
from the academics.
You have a Jewish guy, sure he's apocalyptic.
Let's put that to the side for a second.
He's standing up for the poor.
He's trying to do what I would say is a socially good thing
for the people in the class I think he comes from.
And that are people who are less fortunate.
They don't have the best.
They're in a struggle, they're in a bad predicament
in the world.
The meek shall inherit the earth.
The first shall be last, these kind of philosophical ideas
that you're finding floating around in stoicism
and other things.
Here's this guy who kind of stands for the weak,
stands for the poor, wants to help the widow,
wants to, that kind of idea.
And he becomes, of course, God over time.
But can we find something with Muhammad?
Because I hear a lot of people who are anti Islam
go, just a pure warlord, there's nothing good there.
I engaged recently doing a video against David Wood
because everything he said about Islam
applied to Christianity.
And I was like, what are you doing, man?
So sorry for the rant.
I just feel it's necessary that we have these conversations.
Great question.
I'm answering first and all of these.
Should Bart do, do you want to say anything?
No, go for it.
Okay.
Yeah, so I agree with you that,
and this is one of the reasons why I wanted to do the courses
that I was, I think there's a lot of public interest
in Islamic origins, but it's because academics
aren't really giving introductory material
and putting it out there.
The discourse is dominated by apologists on the one side
and then polemicists on the other.
And they both kind of weaponize the material
and stretch it to fit their own agenda.
So I was like, hey, why don't we do a broad survey
introductory course that you teach at Harvard
or Notre Dame or wherever and give it to the public?
So that's just based on your last comment
that I was saying.
Now, as far as what you asked,
I think it's absolutely true that, well, number one is,
I would say that in some sense,
the historical critical approach can be a pious endeavor
for whether it's liberal Christians or liberal Muslims
because they're trying to get back to what the historical
Jesus or what the historical Muhammad actually said or did.
So as a Muslim, I want to know that.
And I want to know that beyond what the tradition claims
because the tradition can attribute all sorts of things.
So that's why I think it's actually a pious act
in that sense.
And number two is sometimes it can contradict
or often does later orthodoxy, which has a tendency to,
in the construction of orthodoxy, you have to argue
who's in and who's out, which can lead to some intolerance.
And so when you're working backward to get beyond that,
that can sometimes highlight certain positive aspects
against the tradition.
So on this issue of like warfare,
my dissertation is basically trying to show
that it's the later exegetes who are living under empire
who weaponized or militarized the chronic text.
And so I'm trying to undo some of that
and say, look at that process.
So I think that's a benefit
of historical critical scholarship.
Bart Ehrman's book, I know all of it, right?
No, no, I think that's gonna be really interesting
because it's stuff that most of us don't know.
And so I think that's really good.
I mean, when you get to the New Testament,
it's really hard to convince conservative Christians,
whether they're evangelical or Catholic or whatever,
that seeing discrepancies in the accounts,
say, of the life of Jesus,
or discrepancies between what Paul says about himself
and what the book of Acts says about him,
or, you know, seeing this kind of range of,
like these discrepancies and contradictions,
it seems like a threat to most people,
which I understand,
because it did to me as well at one point in my life.
But the point that Javada was just making
is a very important one,
which is that if you recognize diversity and variety
at kind of the early stages of these religions,
it actually, in most cases, it leads to greater tolerance
because you recognize that it wasn't always
like a single thing.
And if you don't subscribe to the single thing,
then you're off limits and you're out of bounds.
And it's not like that.
Because in the New Testament,
if you can show that Matthew has a very different understanding
of the Jewish law, say, than Paul,
or if you say, if you can show that Mark has a different view
of why Jesus died than Luke,
among other things, it shows variety,
but it also allows you to let each author
say what he wants to say,
and not pretend that he's saying something
that some other author is saying.
And so when you do that,
then you actually understand him better.
And so this is a way to understand things better.
It's not a way to destroy the book or to destroy,
it's actually looking for the truth about these things.
And what you do with it religiously is,
as Jovam was saying,
I always, people always tell me,
I'm trying to destroy people's faith,
and it's just not true.
Because if you see these things about the Bible,
you understand it better.
And so if you're a Christian,
surely you want to understand the Bible better.
And so, yeah, so I'm a big fan of historical criticism,
and seeing it applied to the Quran
is gonna be very, very,
it's gonna be very enlightening for many of us,
but also kind of hopeful for many of us.
I've been found guilty, I confess,
on comparing or trying to use kind of a heuristic approach
on the scholarship of what we find on New Testament
when I'm looking at Islamic stuff.
And it isn't typically Muslims who have this problem,
even though I'm sure if they watch, they may.
But I get attacked by the Christian apologists online,
and they always get angry
because I draw back to Christianity
to use an example of the scholarship I've learned.
Thank you, Bart, you got me in trouble.
But seriously, it's important to highlight this,
and I want Jovam to maybe tune into this
because I've been doing that.
Is that a false dilemma?
Is there not something comparable in what's going on?
I know that there aren't gospels, there's a Quran,
but the tradition is very messy,
how we get the Quran exactly,
there's variations on that,
and the tradition of exactly who and when,
and what texts or what words may be in it,
and things like that.
So I'm kind of asking you, Jovad,
while the endeavor is not how Matthew used Mark,
and how Luke may rewrite Mark,
or John might know all three and redactional layers
and stuff in the same identical way,
what is comparable that you've noticed
on New Testament scholarship to the Quran
without giving away too much of the course?
That's a great question.
So modern Islamic studies began with Bible scholars
who basically used the same tools
and started applying them to the Quran
and the life story of the Prophet Muhammad.
Often we place like Abraham Geiger,
he had a book that was called
What Did Muhammad Borrow from Judaism?
It's translated from the German,
but that's really one of the first books
that's considered the impetus for modern Islamic studies.
So to counter this,
some Islamic traditionalists will say
that this is problematic,
that you're just assuming that the techniques
and methods of biblical studies
will apply to the Quran
when the Quran has a different history
and cultural context, et cetera.
I take a middle ground approach,
which is I think a lot of it does definitely apply,
and that's precisely why I think a course like this
is so important,
because when you study the Quran,
you should definitely do it in a comparative way,
especially since biblical studies
is so much more advanced,
it's just had so much more time
and scholarship behind it.
So we in Islamic studies and Quranic studies
can really benefit from the knowledge
that Bart Ehrman and other Bible scholars are bringing.
But with that in mind,
I would make the caveat that we do need to recognize
that it is a different text,
there are some differences,
so you can't just translate everything one to one,
but you have to learn from what biblical studies did
and see how does it apply
and to what degree does it apply to the Quran
and its quest for the historical Muhammad.
So a lot does translate,
but it's not just one to one,
so there's some work that you have to do to get to it.
So that's the approach that I would take.
Bart, did you wanna add anything to that
or do you want me to carry on?
No, I think he's absolutely right.
It's not gonna be like the strict thing,
you can't put them in columns
so they go across the columns like that.
I would say, in addition to that,
history is history
and people who are historians have pretty well set views
about how you established what happened in the past.
And so kind of in broad terms,
that's why you could apply historical criticism
to various fields, not expecting the same results,
but you basically historians look for similar things
when they're trying to establish
and it doesn't matter what you're doing.
I mean, if you're studying Charlemagne or something
or you're studying Thomas Jefferson
or you're studying Julius Caesar,
you've got sources and you've got to figure out
how the sources are valuable,
or how reliable they can be when you can check them,
whether they contradict each other,
whether they're internally coherent,
whether they're the things you do as a historian.
And I think the striking thing for a seminar like this
is to see how it can be done across
two very different sets of scripture,
not to get the same results,
but to compare the two and but doing serious history on both.
Because, of course, for many centuries,
it was never done on the Bible until the Enlightenment
and until fairly recent times,
so far as I know it wasn't really done much
on the Quran either.
And so now we're kind of breaking into this era
where we can do both.
I agree with Bart completely that we have to approach this
just as you approach any other texts,
you can approach the Quran in the same way.
One of the kind of counters
that the conservative Islamic traditionalists give
is that they kind of want to bag this all in with,
use the word Orientalism and say that this is using
Western presuppositions and epistemology
and it just doesn't apply
when you translate it across a culture, et cetera.
But when I read like Christian fundamentalists,
when they are responding to historical critical scholarship,
I find that they use some of the same exact counterarguments
against critical Western scholars.
For example, one of the things that we use
that Bart mentioned was that people are people anywhere.
And that's one of the, it's a principle of analogy
that whether it's in the time of the Prophet Muhammad
and the companions after him, they act in a certain ways.
That's kind of a presupposition that you can rely on.
And I think that applies to Islam or Christianity,
but you'll see Bible fundamentalists arguing
against that kind of thing as well.
So what I'm trying to say is that the arguments
that are used against the historical critical method
are not really specific to Muslims.
They're kind of used by...
These are tough bullets to swallow for people of faith
when you grew up with these kind of orthodox beliefs,
is what I would say.
You know, I think most American Christians assume
that the Bible was produced in California.
Yeah, it is not a Western document.
I mean, but it's like it has all the assumptions
I have growing up, that kind of thing.
That's funny.
Yeah, I really appreciate this perception
and hopefully encouraging more believers to,
I guess, get to the facts.
Maybe what does the historical critical method
help us understand what may have really happened
and possibly separating legend from or myth from reality
in the sense of what actually happened.
But also with the caveat of saying,
just because it's legend and myth,
doesn't mean it doesn't have value.
I was listening to the audio book
by Leslie Hazleton, the first Muslim.
And I have to say this as a Westerner
who really is born and raised in a military household
where my dad went over to the Middle East during 9-11
and has all the reasons and bias
to be just anti-Islam, right?
In the West, as you know.
And I listened to it
and I had kind of like a deep respect
and interest in curiosity about this character,
this person we call Muhammad
and he's a prophet in this religion we call Islam
and understanding its roots and things like that
from almost like a storytelling way that I was interested
and as you know, I don't, not a believer,
but I could appreciate it.
And I was like, okay, hold on.
What if more people understood this?
Wouldn't this create less bias,
less judgment of other people
and at least empathizing with each other?
And I'm hoping my heart in the whole course
that you're doing is that this creates more unity
and finds a way to give people more respect
even if we disagree at the end of the day
over whatever conclusions ontologically
we draw from these religions.
I agree.
We're on board.
My goal is to bring people to the middle, I would say.
And so for Muslims who are on a more fundamentalist side,
I wanna bring them into the middle
and realize that the things that they're attacking
like the Bible for and Christianity for,
well, maybe we should take a look at our own scriptures
and sources and say, okay,
we have some similar issues to deal with.
And I think that will kind of push them more to the middle
and then people on the other side,
kind of on the polemical side or the anti-Islam side.
I want to show them that it's not, like you said,
even if you take it as myth and legend and all this,
that there is something meaningful going on.
You may not agree with it, you may have your differences,
but it's not all just, you know,
huha garbage kind of thing.
There is something deep and meaningful too.
Like you can appreciate the Bible,
you don't have to be someone of faith
to appreciate the Bible from a literature standpoint.
So the same way, I think you could take that position
when it comes to the Quran.
This course, last word.
Guys, why should people sign up?
Why shouldn't they sign up?
Are you kidding me?
When you said you've never heard of something like this
in the public sphere before, I mean, maybe Javad has,
I haven't heard anything like this in the private sphere.
I mean, this is like,
I've never heard of something like this before.
And it's just like, it's amazing that, you know,
it hasn't been done.
And so I'm really looking forward to this.
And I think this is going to be one of those things
that people are going to,
they're just going to learn a ton with, you know,
people who are really knowledgeable about the Quran
are going to learn all sorts of things
that they probably don't know.
People are interested in New Testament, you know,
they don't learn anything new for me.
They're going to learn it from Javad.
And it's going to be, it's like, this is going to be,
I think a really, really interesting and important.
Thank you.
Any final words from you, Javad?
No, I'm just going to, you know, reiterate
or agree with Bart on that.
I think this is one of a kind course
and putting the Bible in the Quran in conversation
and to have the honor of doing it with Sheikh Bart Erman.
I mean, this is, this is huge.
So this is, I'm really excited about this.
Well, thank you so much.
Ladies and gentlemen, you heard the guys sign up right now.
The link is in the description.
You see it on the screen and I hope to see you there.
