Dr. Dale C. Allison, Jr., history or legend in the Gospel of Luke in the Book of Acts.
What do you say didn't happen in these texts?
Before we answer that, though, you and I have recorded a very deep historical quest for
the historical Jesus, really the scholarship of New Testament studies course, and anyone
who takes it eventually will take a Q&A Zoom session together.
I hope that you'll sign up now.
You'll own it for live 4K, 830 minute lectures.
It is an impeccable quality, and I know for a fact you're going to learn something great
to watch the debate over the centuries of how we understand what we're reading in the
New Testament take place.
Anyone, Christian, atheist, agnostic, if you're a student who's interested in knowing
why professors, why the scholars take positions they do, it's good to know the history behind
it.
That's for sure.
Now moving to Luke Acts.
I am interested in knowing your thoughts on what you would say you're pretty confident
didn't happen, or at least as it's written, and I would say I know that none of this is
black or white.
So this is the complexity about asking some of these questions, but what would you say
in Luke Acts is legendary meaning you don't think historically this is something that
actually happened.
So I've never done anything with, again, Luke 1 and 2, I've just never done anything
with it, and don't see any reason to.
So wherever those, by the way, I really like the material, the hymnic material especially
in Luke 1 and 2, and the stories are beautiful, and Christians have always been attracted
to them.
They feature, you know, in Christmas hymns and Christmas nativity plays and so on.
It's very beautiful poetic literature, but I don't see, I just don't see history there.
Now with regard to Luke Acts that's more difficult for me because I tend to think that there's
a lot of memory in Acts, but that it's polished memory.
That is, if you look, for example, at Acts 15, this is when people are getting together
in Jerusalem because there's a debate about Gentiles and should we circumcise them and
so on, and my guess is that the meeting was more rambunctious and difficult and conflicting
than Luke makes it out to be.
I also think maybe that this decree or letter that they come up with may have come at some
other time, some other juncture, and Luke's putting it back there.
I also don't much trust Luke's chronology, that is, even when he has stories from, you
know, from whatever source, I think it's a little like Mark.
I think he may be guessing as to where they go and to what comes where, and then there
are just lots of stories.
I just don't know what to do with it.
So if you're asking me what in Acts, you'd have to give me some example of something
that...
Can I give you one of my personals?
I know that ships sell and it's common that maybe ships even sink.
There's a common story that Michael Jones, inspiring philosophy, made a video actually
trying to critique skeptics who might be dwelling in Parallelomania or something, and he made
this argument that the Titanic actually sank 14 years after a fictional writing by an author
who talked about a boat called Titan, and this was comparing the Jesus narrative to
other figures, other gods, other divine men, heroes, you name it.
And so I'm reading this Acts narrative about Paul on the shipwreck that's highly narrated,
and I'm looking at Virgil, and I'm looking at, you know, Homer's Odyssey, and I see this
book of Acts is written in Greek.
They would have had to learn in Greek some of these stories or it would have just been
in the air.
And so I'm reading this and I'm thinking to myself, even FF Bruce, conservative scholar,
thought, this seems Homeric, seems like at least, even if there may be a memory, there
may be.
But being able to verify or validate that, you know, to me, it's more likely this is
kind of fan fiction in a way where they're writing this narrative that looks similar
to what you see in the Aeneid by Virgil or in the Odyssey, and in both Virgil's Aeneid
and the Odyssey, we have we passages.
So this is me, I know that you might disagree and that's fine.
I just, at least I have a reason behind the madness of where I'm getting at on the shipwreck.
So Luke, given his preface in Luke one has a Greek education, and it means he knows Homer,
which means he's read Homer, which means that Homer is part of his, his language, his world.
But you've got to be careful here because everything's always messy and difficult.
So, so, so when you're with Matthew one and two, the Moses typology is so, so heavy that
I'm thinking this is in history.
But you'd have to do more work to convince me that the Homeric echoes are actually the
essence of the story, rather than echoes or illusions or just some way of putting things
that came to mind because the author knew the language.
You have to remember that people, writers, they live in literature, and you have to remember
that people are typological.
So, you know, Martin Luther King can talk of himself as though he's Moses, and the Moses
passages in Martin Luther King aren't fiction, they're actually autobiographical, right?
And Harriet Tubman, she comes to mind too, you know, the, the marvelous woman who, you
know, went down south and freed slaves and brought them up on the Underground Railroad,
railroad, that they called her the Black Moses.
And she was the Black Moses while she was alive, and she bought the typology.
And we have interviews with her where she talks about how, yeah, she was like Moses and God
talked to her like Moses and all the rest of, it's really interesting.
The problem is, is that when I see too much of a typology or too much language, I say,
yeah, I'm really skeptical here.
But if I see traces or things that could look like overlay or just natural language, I'm
thinking, well, maybe this is a mixture of history or this is just history told in a
certain way.
So, look, I haven't spent my life.
I've never written a commentary on the last part of Acts.
And if I went through verse by verse and looked at every nautical term, which I'm never going
to do, every nautical term, figure out how often does this occur in Greek literature and
is this normal?
Is this abnormal?
Is this weird?
Does this really look like a travel diary or is it more like the Odyssey?
I'm never going to do that.
So, yeah, so since I've never done it and I'm never going to do it, I should have no
strong opinion about it.
All I'm going to say is that we need to be cautious.
And again, parallels can do too much.
You brought up the Titan and the Titanic thing.
If you look at the literature, offbeat literature on the paranormal or psychic phenomena or
whatever, people are always referring to that as proof of precognition.
They're saying, yeah, somebody looked into the future and actually saw what was going
to happen.
So, your explanations are always multiple, aren't they?
Well, you know, they asked him about this and they were saying, are you clairvoyant,
blah, blah, blah?
And he answered, no, I just know what I'm talking about.
And come to find out his father was a captain of a ship in the Great Lakes.
And then he spent his entire teenage year into his adult years before he became someone
who's into jewelry.
He sailed the ocean.
So he knows Nautica's, he knows, you know, knots, he knows ships, he knows, but you know,
you can find differences, you can find similarities, but you could see that it was in his, it's
in the ship world, especially around this time, that you would kind of be able to make
a guess like that.
I definitely agree and I appreciate you not taking a strong stance because I am reading
a lot of the scholars who are trying to see, hey, like Dennis MacDonald, I know he's gone
in the field, a lot of people go, he goes so far and some of them haven't even read
his work, which I really think they should.
But even he admits, I know some of these are weak.
I know that maybe some of these aren't there, but you should be a judge for yourself.
And when I see like overwhelming, like tons and tons of this stuff, I'm going, like, let's
take Luke, since we're in Luke acts for a moment, let's take the death of Jesus, the
passion of Christ, where he is like almost fearless.
He's facing this with no emotion, like Socrates going to his death.
I'm looking at this and I'm going, all right, I'm not a harmonizer.
I look at this text and I go, someone is taking the liberty in this narrative to make Jesus
viewed this way rather than the way he's portrayed in Mark or even in Matthew.
What are your thoughts?
I mean, could he be your estimation like Socrates and his death?
Oh, so I have read a couple of things that made me think that Luke might have Socrates
in mind.
Yeah, it sort of makes sense, doesn't it?
I mean, why would that be an issue?
Right.
It's not an issue for me.
But again, for me to judge the nautical stuff, I would really have to look at each term and
how everything is used in the literature.
And then you'd have to decide, first of all, does this guy really know boats or is he just
getting this from books?
Right.
And my guess, without having done all the work, just from things I've read, is that he probably
did sail.
One of the things about Luke that's always struck me is he's got these stories from all
over the place, right?
He's got stories from all over the place.
Not only that, but his heroes, who are his heroes?
His heroes are Jesus and Peter and Paul, and what do they have in common?
All three are itinerants, and he actually emphasizes this.
They are always going from place to place.
In fact, that middle section of Luke, he turns into a travel, you know, what's called the
travel narrative, where he's always on the move and going from places to places.
So there were these people in the early Christian world.
Paul is one, somebody who went all over the place, right?
He was in many, many, many places.
I think that probably is the guy in Luke.
Otherwise, I think it's hard to think he just sat at his desk and did all this.
I think that early Christians are telling stories, and that Luke is moving around here.
He's hearing lots of stories, and this is his attempt to, you know, put together the
best of the stories or the stories he likes, or to make some coherence, add some coherence
to the various narratives.
I also have to remember here, I also have to remember that people just love to tell stories,
and I think, sometimes we forget this.
So, you know, we look at Matthew and what he's adding to Mark and thinking, you know,
he's making this all up himself, but it's impossible that early Christians didn't sit
around and tell stories about Jesus, and in fact, I'm pretty sure that's what they did
as much as anything else.
I mean, what else are they going to do?
And they must have told stories about Paul.
If they liked Paul or hated Paul, they must have told stories about Paul.
Same thing with Peter, and if somebody's claiming a miracle story, then, you know, a miracle
that's going to turn into a story.
So the early Christian world has to be teeming with stories.
You know, just go to any lively religious community.
They're full of stories, and they're full of stories about important people and things
that just happened.
You know, we can sometimes get into the habit of thinking on a literary level, like everybody
is kind of like us, and we're sitting in our studies, and we read books, and then we write
about books, and we respond to books, and so on.
But I think in the real human world, everybody's telling stories, and that if you wanted to,
you could hear a bunch of stories and then write them down.
And if Luke is a traveler, I'm convinced whoever he was was a traveler.
By the way, the old stuff, as far as I know, holds up, the old stuff about Luke, and let's
say that the titles of Roman officials in various cities around, you know, he seems
to have that information down.
So maybe he's actually been to these places, and it's not just paper information, and he's
not just doing literary stuff.
So keep in mind the story aspect of just being human, and look at any religion.
That's what they do.
They tell stories.
Well noted, Dr. Allison, and I love the stories, whether this be literary or a combination
of both literary and possibly the imagination of those who are telling these stories early.
I'm open to all of this.
I personally, as a skeptic who has no ontological framework within Christianity, love the narratives,
love the stories, the good, the bad, and the ugly.
And I say even ugly when they're like accusing Jews of being children of the devil, like,
I understand to say that's bad, but I know where there's some good lessons and stuff.
And I think we should be more balanced and be more mature as skeptics approaching this,
not just be heavy handed to just attack.
It's I value this literature.
I love this material.
And this is why I do what I do.
