I wonder sometimes if you dismiss mimesis altogether.
What I see is that there are so many more cultural influences.
I don't deny that there are other cultural effector effect.
And I don't think it needs to be an either or.
And I actually try to do in my more recent work,
a dance around the differences between a generic and a genetic approach.
Thanks so much, Derek.
Thank you and thank you to the audience who's tuning in.
I am not going to take the time to go through the long intros.
I do want everybody who's watching,
if you haven't already got a copy of both of their works.
Seriously, I highly recommend it.
And Dr. Litwa, I think I have four or five of yours so far
and I'm collecting them now as we speak.
I've got some on ebook too, but I want the hard copy.
I got to be able to throw it at somebody, you know,
let them know how I really feel.
I want to introduce you both real quick with your credentials.
I'm going to start with Dr. Litwa in his area of expertise
and just so people know, is in Greco-Roman religions,
phylonics studies, gospel and Pauline literature,
heresiology, Gnostic and Nagamati studies,
ancient philosophy, ancient mythology, deification,
theosis, ancient esoteric movements,
in particular Greek mystery cults, ruler worship.
And of course, he has PhD.
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald has wrote endless.
I mean, just books since what, the 70s?
Dr. McDonald?
The 80s, yeah.
80s.
Okay, and you were the John Wesley Professor of New Testament
and Christian Origins at Claremont School of Theology
in California.
Do you have your emeritus from there?
You might as well by now.
Yes, I do.
Yes.
Okay, awesome.
One day I expect Dr. Litwa's going to have the same
of where he's coming from.
And of course, you proposed a theory within the earliest books
of the New Testament were responses to Homeric epics,
including the Gospel of Mark, Acts of the Apostles
and the methodology you pioneered is called Mimesis criticism.
And if your theories are correct, nearly everything written
on the early Christian narrative is flawed
when it comes to scholarship on this idea.
So I want to start on common ground between,
did you want to comment on that before I get
into the common ground?
No, no, that's fine.
No, that's fine.
I figure why not start on the even playing field
where both of you agree.
And what I find unique about your scholarship is both of you
aren't looking only to the Hebrew Bible to figure
out what's going on in the New Testament.
There's much more play here and how Hellenism has impacted
or impact, however you want to put that, the Jewish world.
Can both of you or would you care to elaborate
and tell us building up to what's going on
in the New Testament times with Jews?
Because we like to think it's black and white.
You've got Jew and Gentile and Jews are this holy separate.
They don't get impacted by Hellenism and they're not thinking
in Greek ideas, et cetera.
But that's not what both of you gentlemen do.
Would you care to start Dennis?
Well, I think we swim in the same river, which is different
from what you're going to find with lots of scholars
in the guild.
But I think we have come from two different sources
to that river.
And at some point, we need to find a happy way to talk
about those different sources.
But let me start with some admiration.
I only have one of David's books and it's clear
that he's a serious scholar and he's done wide ranging
and imaginative work and he recognizes analogies
between Hellenist mythology, Roman mythology
and the New Testament, some of which has been seen
in the past, but much of it has not
and it's not been conducted in the same way.
One of his commitments is then to see what kind
of history or BIOS a gospel might be
and he coins a genre designation of mythic historiography
or something similar to that.
The stream that I come from is more classical Greek poetry.
And so I'm interested in Homer, the Athenian tragedies
and so on.
So we'll be able to talk about that.
The implications of that are quite important, Derek,
because I don't think that the Gospels are mythic histories.
I think their community formative documents
that are struggling against the poetic script is provided,
especially by Homer and Virgil.
So I think that's where we're going.
I've actually prepared something that probably is premature
to give now, but I'd like to at some point tell you what my
understanding of resistance,
mimesis criticism has been and very briefly my response
to it because in my reading of David's work,
about three of these five categories or so pop
up in his treatment of mimesis criticism.
I do have a question for David before we go further
and I would like to get his response
if I've properly characterized his work.
In what I saw, David, I didn't see anything about Q.
Are you a Q agnostic or?
I'm a Q eliminator.
I don't think it's necessary.
Yeah, but we should talk more about that.
But I wanted to address also Derek's question that when
we're talking about my model,
I would call generally dynamic cultural interaction,
which is to say that Judea before Alexander the Great
and very much so after was a Hellenized region and it was
a region that had undergone in other words,
the process of cultural diffusion,
which means that if you can use an analogy here,
you know, America has exported its culture across the world.
Okay, and not, you know, some of it is high culture.
Some of it is quite low.
It's McDonald's and Kentucky Fried Chicken here.
Hey, careful about McDonald's.
But I mean, and I love that.
But all that I'm saying is that through music,
through technological products, through apps and social media,
America is the great exporter of its culture.
And in the time of the New Testament,
Greece was the great exporter of culture.
English is the lingua franca today.
Greek is the lingua franca in Jesus's time.
And we can tell that Judea is a highly Hellenized place
by looking at the pottery, by looking at the theaters,
by looking at the architecture, by looking at the painting,
by looking at the sculpture, by looking at all forms of cultural media
in which you see cultural diffusion.
And another key term that I'll throw in here from sociology
is socialization.
We are all socialized in a particular cultural matrix.
And that cultural matrix was, for lack of a better term,
Hellenistic for almost all people in Judea.
That's still their cultural matrix.
Now, within that cultural matrix,
you can form a distinct subcultural identity.
So Jews are fiercely Jewish.
And I certainly don't want to deny that.
Jews of today, Jews of in Jesus's time,
they're fiercely pro, they're pro, their own identity.
But that's a subcultural identity.
They belong to a more generalized cultural matrix.
Just as an extreme Orthodox Jew in New York City
belongs to American culture.
They may have systems of resistance
to oppose the broader culture.
But for most, most Jews,
they accept some level of integration
into the general framework, the cultural framework.
And that happens through socialization.
In socialization, it's just walking out the street
and being influenced by anything and everything else in your world.
So that's how this stuff goes on.
So the dynamic cultural interaction
is more than just reading texts.
It's interacting with culture on any level whatsoever,
with eyes, ears type of food that you see,
the theater productions, okay,
the music you listen to, the things you see architecturally.
Okay, so all of that is coming in at a thousand miles an hour
and it's coming in to Jews in their own homeland, okay.
But Jews are also in the diaspora.
So they're in the center of Hellenized areas
like Alexandria, Corinth, et cetera, et cetera,
Rome, et cetera, et cetera.
So yes, absolutely, Judaism is a Hellenized religion.
That's not an attack on Judaism.
No, no, no, no, yeah.
Both of you are in agreement here.
And I definitely think we're already in the deep end.
This is exactly where we're going to see agreement
as you part in different methodology.
But I want our audience to see that.
I want to see two scholars who can be friendly
and have a conversation about this disagreement
and where you disagree and why.
But also it shines a better light
where we, non-academics like myself, will be able to point at.
David, I agree with everything you said.
I do not have problems with socialization.
I don't have problems with multiple forms
of cultural dissemination.
But I would say that literacy and literature is one of them.
And so the question is, how do we test
whether cultural dissemination has only non-literary vectors
or is there a place for mimesis?
And I would insist that in terms of the Gospels,
mimesis is, in fact, the primary vector of Hellenism,
where I express more skepticism
about that being the primary vector.
I don't see that you...
Well, no, I wonder sometimes
if you dismiss mimesis altogether
as a possible vector of Hellenism.
But I know that you're skeptical about the criteria
that are used to detect it.
At least you say that in your book
on the Gospels' History.
So, no, I don't disagree with you.
And I think it's good to start on this plateau.
We are in the same river,
but we are going to...
We come from different sources of our understanding
of where that is.
Okay, so real quick, if I may, real quick,
we're going to hold off on the patrons.
And the patrons, the superchats till the end.
I really want you both to get into this, if you don't mind.
Sure, well, you know,
Heraklada said you never step in the same river twice.
So, I mean, I think that being in the same river
means that we bring variation.
And I think that there's a lot of light
that can be generated from that.
Basically, for me, mimesis depends on the criteria of analogy.
And for me, analogy is never genealogy.
So, but it also comes down to interest.
You know, I'm not that interested in proving genetic connection.
I'm more interested in just letting the light shine through analogy.
I would say, however, that I've done for the past two years
most of my work in the second century.
And so, what I see in the second century
is something that I don't see in the first century.
And that's where Christians start to cite Homer directly
and actually to quote him.
So, in the exegesis of the soul, which is Nakamadi.
Yeah, right.
And you have quotations from the Odyssey I and IV.
In the Nasin's, they quote Odyssey 24.
And then you've got the Simonians.
The Simonians, followers of Simon of Samaria,
are said to allegorize Helen and her torch.
That's right.
That's right.
It's not actually in our ethics, but it's that Homeric lore.
So, eventually, you do see the genetic interaction with Homer.
And I sort of, the more I read this,
my hypothesis is that that takes time to have that direct genetic interaction.
And that seems to be coming from, for lack of a better term,
an Alexandrian cultural mentality.
I put exegesis of the soul in Alexandria.
I put the Nasin's in Alexandria.
I'm a little bit confused about where the Simonians are.
But I do think that Christians eventually get around to doing
that kind of definitely provable and demonstrable genetic connection
and what you're calling mymesis.
And I absolutely am willing to see earlier Christians also interacting
on a more general level with Homeric ideas and ideology.
But I guess it just comes down to interest.
What I see is that there are so many more cultural influences generating the Gospels
that I think, although I'm quite open to mymesis, as long as we have good criteria,
and I think you've got decent criteria, we also need to be open to mymesis
on a bunch of other levels.
So, not just...
Absolutely, yeah.
I don't deny that there are other cultural factors.
And you talk about some of them in your book and I find them to be useful.
But, and you say in your book that probably the most formative author
of Hellenistic culture is Homer.
And that was in the schools and so on.
So, you don't deny that.
The issue is how does one test whether particular narratives of early Christianity issue from...
By the way, I want to stop there because I'm going to use the word generic or genetic
that you also used a couple of times.
And I just want to make sure that the viewers understand what the difference is.
A genetic connection between two myths, let's say those in the Gospels and those in the Homer,
is a literary connection.
So, you have one text parenting another.
So, the genetic or the genealogical trope works.
You're more interested without excluding the other in a generic understanding
of cultural dissemination and similarity.
And I don't think it needs to be an either or.
And I actually try to do in my more recent work a dance around the differences
between a generic and a genetic approach.
But I still think the generic approach is the most productive.
I agree.
I agree with all that, yeah.
No disagreement there.
And I think that where most of the light comes is in scholars interacting as groups
and really coming together and talking about what is in the general matrix of the literary culture.
What are the Gospel writers really interacting with on a whole number of letters,
a whole number of ways, sorry.
Are they going to the theater?
Are they seeing artwork?
Well, they must be on some level.
Are they seeing sculpture?
Do they visit temples?
Paul says that some Corinthian Christians are eating banquets in the temple.
So, they have to be seeing the artwork.
They have to be seeing the sculpture.
They have to be, some of them are reading, not all of them,
but they have to be going to the theater.
Even Philo goes to the theater and they have to be going to the race course.
And they're seeing, they're being bombarded with these cultural images.
So, that even, you know, I mean, it would be impossible for them not to be influenced in that sort of way.
They would have to find death.
So, scholars need to get together and to say, you know, what are the most plausible interactions?
And that, you know, it can't just be one person saying that, you know,
I think there's a genetic connection here.
It has to be, well, what do you folks think and what's, you know, and why?
And does that seem plausible to you?
And classicists need to be invited into this conversation too.
Absolutely.
Because classicists, you know, New Testament scholars aren't familiar with mythology
and classicists aren't that familiar with New Testament.
So, really, the best controls is that more general conversation.
And the more we can do that, I mean, that's really where we are on the same team.
I mean, the more we can create that more dynamic academic culture where we are not siloed off,
you know, and that would be an immense success.
It would.
I have another question for you that is intended to be probing.
But Robin Faith Walsh has recently written that we've dumbed down the evangelists so that
because they actually were much more among the many and the educated and the elite and so on,
and they were more in control of their materials than we usually think.
And one of the criticisms, and you mentioned it a couple of times in your book by Carl Olaf Sandness,
is that the Gospel authors were not sufficiently educated and sophisticated.
And certainly their readers weren't in order to be able to detect and benefit from mimesis.
Do you have a position on that question?
Yeah, I mean, in general, I think Robin said it in the right direction.
I certainly think that the author of Canonical Luke is on that high end of literary proficiency.
But I also think that there's a range.
So, I mean, there's a difference in texture and between, say, Tacitus and the Gospel of Mark or the Gospel of John.
But that doesn't mean that that difference in texture doesn't mean that one of them is sophisticated and one of them is not sophisticated
because the ability to speak plainly and profoundly is itself a mark of education.
And I think John especially has been greatly underestimated in terms of his historiographical nuances.
And Chris Keith is working on a book on this, focusing on John in historiography.
So, I think that they're absolutely all fairly sophisticated authors.
But for whatever reason, the literary products that they create, and I'm thinking especially of Mark and John,
read at a level of texture, they read much differently than Suetonius and Tacitus.
So, I'm interested in the question of, you know, why is that?
And frankly, I don't have a good reason for that, but I do consider them more or less intellectual and educated equals.
Okay, that's fair enough.
Okay.
So, gentlemen, both of you seem to agree on both positions in a way where Dennis is definitely saying it's all coming in at a thousand miles an hour.
However, I'm seeing literary imitation.
Dr. Lit was saying I'm seeing mostly the thousand miles an hour, cultural, everything in the vision around every street corner, you name it.
And maybe you're not seeing as much, I suspect, I don't want to put words in your mouth,
but you're not seeing as much literary imitation, but you're not closed off to literary imitation being a thing.
Is there an example, if I can crisscross both of you gentlemen, to stillman the opposite side in a way?
Dr. Lit, was there anywhere that you can think of that you might say, you know what, I think that's, that might be limited literary imitation in the New Testament?
And then the same question to you, Dr. McDonald, would there be something in the Gospels or in the New Testament
that you wouldn't mistake for literary imitation and would say, this is the thousand mile an hour cultural imitation probably taking place rather than literary?
Dr. Lit, well, we'll start with you and then Dr. McDonald next.
Oh, well, so with the Gospels, I think, I think the beginning and the end of the Gospels are the main, like those are the high voltage sites
for highly mimetic activity.
And another way, I'm more comfortable just describing it as those are the most highly mythicized sections of the Gospels.
And for obvious reasons, because when you get into the resurrection narratives, you're getting into essentially what is unknown.
And I think basically all that the early Christians knew about the resurrection, you know, in terms of a historical event,
ended with Mark 16, verse eight, where the women came to the tomb, there was nobody inside, and they ran away terrified.
And that's it.
And so that's all that Christians knew.
And so when they, when later Gospel writers try to fill in the blanks,
and you definitely know that that happens because somebody writes a new ending to Mark.
In fact, they write two new endings to Mark.
And when that happens, then they have to be using mimetic resources because in a sense all that they have are maybe their own visions
and traditions that have been passed on orally.
But they've also got this rich cultural repertoire of what is Jesus's resurrection like
and they can use, say, well-known stories like Romulus's Ascension, which is also a violent death.
And some people think it's a violent death.
You've got a Skeppius hit by lightning and you've got Heracles, who's burned alive, but also ascends and these rich cultural stories
that the Jews like Josephus had already been conforming their Jewish heroes to these other rich cultural sort of archetypical stories.
So, so Josephus, for instance, when he writes The Death of Moses, he basically conforms him to these disappearance narratives and these translation narratives.
So that that essentially Moses translates out of this world more or less like Romulus.
But Josephus is rather sneaky about it and says, you know, but Moses didn't want you to think that.
Lest you think that he had been, you know, retreated back into the divinity is his way of putting it.
But of course, Josephus does want you to think that Moses is a greater hero than Heracles or Romulus or Skeppius or whoever.
So I think it's I think it's an interesting move.
And I think that's the same thing.
And I would say very much the same thing with birth narratives.
I don't think Christians historically knew anything about Jesus's birth.
So that's where myth, mythicization or or mymesis becomes in great, great use to Christians.
And they've got lots of bottles.
Again, they get the birth of Moses.
They've got the birth of Augustus.
They've got all these other birth stories that attract certain elements, some of them a bit stereotypes.
And then the stories get filled out over over time.
So definitely there is mymesis there.
If that's what we prefer to call it. Absolutely.
Well, I wouldn't call that mymesis, David, because you're still talking about general cultural interaction.
So just the Lucan infancy narrative, in my view, is an imitation of the Homeric him to Aphrodite when she seduces and Pisces.
And then promises there'll be an eternal dynasty that comes out of their union.
And for Luke at the end, of course, Odysseus comes home.
He demonstrates who he is by his scar.
And then Jesus actually quotes Antichlia in Odyssey 11 by saying flesh and blood does not have the soul does not have flesh and blood.
The UCI have is Luke's version.
And Antichlias is that she does not have flesh and bone.
It's the same wording.
So that's a good example of where one of us will look for a mimetic connection to a text that exists in another.
And you would prefer to hear it as a cultural dissemination, generic.
I have to say, though, it's still beautiful because both seem compatible in this way.
While Dr. Litwell may not be looking for that literary, right?
And you may see that he's like, it's there, though.
There's this, there's it's happening.
It's happening.
And Dr. McDonald seeing this in the Greek and going, I'm finding this, it seems like they're literarily connected.
Even if Dr. Litwell like stops short and says, well, I don't go to the literary, right?
But I see it in the culture.
Both of you guys are so close.
So it could be.
I wouldn't deny Dennis's theory, but I would.
I would also just say that's just one.
Vector as he as he's put it.
Whereas there's a whole kaleidoscope here and why just limited to that story.
I don't.
I, in other words, I think where the real disagreement is, is I don't think stories.
I don't think gospel stories are constructed out of one other story.
I think they're constructed.
They enter the human imagination and the human imagination is so big and so broad and so varied and incorporate so many different and diverse streams.
It's like a vast tapestry where you've got a thousand different threads and Mark is just working out.
And he's not just looking at the Homeric thread.
The Homeric thread is in there.
Sure.
But there's also, you know, what we think of his classical mythology is just the bread and butter of these people.
And they've got any number of stories that they might be working with to generate a product.
Okay, let me let me respond to that, David.
I agree with you.
And Luke obviously is indebted to the Septuagint at the same time that he's, you know, with his enunciation.
He seems to be imitating this hymn.
So and there's also another thing that students were taught and that's eclectic mimesis.
That is you imitate multiple models to create something new.
And the image that sometimes used, it's like a bee that goes from tree from plant to plant in order to collect the nectar to make the honey,
which is not identical to anything that you have in the nectar.
But I want to take the challenge that Derek gave and throw it back.
The part of your book that I found most compelling has to do not with Luke and Mark, but with Matthew.
And it's something other people have explored, but I think you articulate it very well.
That is the Magi and the Star.
And there's an example of where we do not have a good widespread textual display of it.
You have to piece that together from the various pieces of the Alexander birth and so on.
So in that case, I would say you don't have mimesis.
That is most likely that you have cultural radiation.
Now, the one chapter where I had the most trouble, David, is how you treated the death of Jesus in the context of meteorologies and so on.
Because I think it's an extended imitation of the death of Hector from Iliad book 22.
We can't get into the weeds of that, but Derek asked me to identify a text where I found your work to be helpful and compelling and willing to go with it.
And it was that one on the Magi and the Star, which I'm sure you're pretty proud of.
Well, I mean, so in that chapter, that's a good example, though, of where we differ.
So I totally see the logic of going to Homer because he's probably like he's the superstar.
But I just don't see why we would, in a sense, stop there or only focus on there.
So for the Magi and the Star, I look at Mithridates and Mithridates is a historical figure,
but he's also he's experienced mythicization and it's a successful mythicization.
And then that very successful mythicization is then recapitulated and adapted.
And I also use Plutarch.
So in a sense, I mean, yeah, I just feel like I don't at all exclude that Hector is in the death stories of Jesus.
I just don't.
But I don't know why I would stop there.
I mean, in the sense that you've done a fine job making your case, but there is so much more going on is just where I am.
This is why I don't even view it as oppositional.
OK, gentlemen, this is really fun.
And it makes me feel like we have so much we could really if we wanted to get in the weeds could.
We do have a lot of super chats if you're interested in going there.
Good. Yeah, let's do it.
I want to say thank you to everybody in the audience for the support.
Obviously, if you're here, you're you're definitely a deep thinker.
There's nobody here who's not actually paying attention to who isn't realizing this is heavy scholarship that we're dealing with.
And of course, you're past the the realm of fundamentalism unless you're trolling in the chat.
