Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups, help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Thanks for joining the show again guys.
We're going to get into an interesting topic today about history.
I'm not a big history guru.
I don't have a lot of knowledge when it comes to the topic of history.
You can ask me certain questions I might know a little bit here and there but when it comes
to really analyzing some of the foundational things we think we understand about history
and chronology and such, I honestly have the slightest clue.
I don't have the slightest clue.
I couldn't tell you.
I wouldn't be able to make a strong argument.
I stand with consensus because it's all I know not saying it's accurate 100% or anything.
It's just all I know.
But I have a good friend here.
I'm going to be interviewing today and Steven Sorensen.
He has a YouTube channel.
Go down in the description as well as a website.
All the links you guys can check out.
Make sure you guys check him out.
He's on Facebook.
He's got a Reddit.
He's got Discord.
He's got links for you to donate if you are interested after this show and you see, hey,
this guy is, he's got a similar passion as I do.
He's critical.
He really wants to investigate and analyze this stuff.
You guys can help him out by go down in the description, checking out all the links and
show my friends some love.
That being said, welcome to the show, Steven.
How are you doing, brother?
Hey, Derek, thanks for having me back.
I'm doing well.
How are you doing?
I'm doing good, man.
I'm just, I'm wondering what you're going to bring today.
You told me, don't worry, you don't have to know anything really much in order to get
into this conversation and understand where you're going to take us.
So you yourself are currently going to school.
I think in the field of history and some.
I'm a history major.
Yeah.
Awesome.
I know I'm a bachelor's right now, but I want to go all the way to the PhD.
I know it's on a few long ways off, but that is in the plans.
Yeah.
I know that that could take some time and money and lots of resources to do, but I know we've
talked many times in the past and you're serious about trying to understand a lot of
the stuff.
So we might as well jump in instead of boring people to death and get into some of the topics.
You sent me an article.
I didn't get to really read fully.
Tell us what you're going to bring us today.
All right.
Well, first of all, I'm really easy to contact like Derek was saying, I got all my social
media links on the homepage of my website.
So if you're watching this and I mean, this is basically just a showcase of my ignorance.
Like I'm going to share with you what I do know.
And from that, you guys can figure out what I don't know.
I'm a super easy contact.
You can comment on any of my web pages, any of my YouTube videos.
You can send me an email if you don't want to do it publicly.
Like this is, I'm not doing this as, oh, I've figured everything out and you need to listen
to me, but I'm figuring stuff out.
If you want to chime in and help out a little bit, it's really easy to do so.
So what I'm looking, what I've been looking into here for years now is the foundations
of history and chronology.
Why do we think the things that we think about history, like why, why do we think it's 2020?
Where do these calendars come from?
Like it's the Gregorian calendar that's most popular today, but where did the Julian one come from?
The one that the Gregorian replaced and back further, where's the Roman one that Julian
replaced and so on and so forth.
And then, you know, like Derek said, I don't want to bore you with all the details of calendars
and dates and numbers, but we do have to talk about that at some point.
If we're looking into history to understand how these things are crafted and built.
And so in this presentation discussion today, I've got three main points that Derek was talking about.
And you can find this in, I wrote it out on an article on my website.
It's called Back to the Basics with MythVision Podcast.
And you can search for that.
I got a search feature on my website.
It's on every single page except for the home page.
So I'm sure you can find it.
It's near the top of the page.
But if you want to find that article, Derek might even link it if he wants to.
But there that's those are where my show notes are at.
And it's a three part thing.
I'm going to talk about the foundations of chronology.
Who were the main characters that kind of laid down the style of history that we are more familiar with today?
I'm going to talk about some of the fundamental literary sources.
So for a long time and even still today, literary sources are the main foundation that we have for chronology.
We know what what this person said, because we have textual remains of works that are attributed to them.
And then after that, I'm going to talk about the formations of the disciplines of historical inquiry.
So talking about historical method and historiography.
And I'm going to in this talk, I'm going to talk specifically about paleography and diplomatics,
which are really the two wings of historical inquiry that deal with authenticity of writings and where they come from.
And how do we know?
So those are the three main parts.
I figured, yeah, like I said to Derek, like you don't have to know really anything going into this.
But I imagine Derek will have some questions along the way.
I mean, we don't know how long we talked before hitting record, but there are a bunch of questions that kept coming up.
And I'm like, this would be good if we can get back around to this on the recording.
But if not, it's whatever.
So yeah, that is the intro. Derek, any questions before I continue?
All right, here we go.
So the first person talking about the foundations of chronology, there's four really key characters.
And the first one is this dude.
I've only ever really seen his name written, but I think it's Eusebius, Eusebius.
And this guy is considered today to be the father of church history.
He is one of the main characters.
He's, I think, the primary source for this information.
So I'm just going to read off my article as it is right now.
I might update it later.
But basically, the main foundations of Western chronology, so Roman, Greek and Persian, et cetera, were created by the clergy of the Christian church.
So this is something that I don't think a lot of people are aware of, that our view of history is incredibly dependent on Christian activity.
Almost all of the manuscripts that we have are written by Christian hands for some, like for even the pagan authors, they only reach us from later medieval monasteries and members like that.
So the Christian church plays a huge role in history that I think is not talked about too much today.
Eusebius and Jerome are typically considered to have laid the foundation for Western chronology until Scaliger and Batavius.
So that's like roughly around the fourth to fifth century are the foundations set for Western chronology and history.
And then Scaliger and Batavius in the late 16th, early 17th century finally replaced that.
So like almost around like 1200 years, Eusebius is believed to have been a bishop.
Jerome was a priest who later became a saint.
Scaliger was a Protestant and Batavius was a Jesuit.
And it's not inherently wrong that they're Christians, but this view definitely played into the way that they viewed history and how they wrote it.
And so moving on to talk about Eusebius and Jerome specifically, Eusebius is the first person I'll mention because of his impact on Jerome.
Paul L. Mayer, the former Russell H. Siebert professor of ancient history at Western Michigan University reported that Eusebius is today our primary,
principal primary source for the earliest Christianity and his church history is the cornerstone chronicle on which later historians would build.
And that is quite a role for somebody to hold the cornerstone of church history.
And I think he's called today the father of church history.
And Eusebius himself even mentioned that to his knowledge, nobody else had done.
Nobody had put together really the history of the church yet.
He I think he goes on to say that what he gathered was from fragments that he had found.
So fragments of writers and that's he put together a church history first got to do it.
The historian of church history, Philip Shaeff, noted that Eusebius's works were fundamentally apologetic.
They weren't scientific in nature.
He was writing with a goal to not it wasn't a goal that was meant to let's really try and figure out what happened in the past.
It was let's make this history work for my religious belief.
And so these works of his were largely foundational due to Jerome.
And to highlight just to highlight his importance, he wrote two main works, which is the church history, which has earned him the father of church history title.
And then he wrote his chronology, which is what Jerome took from I think Jerome took from the second half of it.
But the he's the largest source of information from the 10 or 11 that we have for the list of Olympic victors, which is the basis of ancient Greek dating.
And so our understanding of the early Greek times and when the calendar actually began is largely based on Eusebius.
And I think it's the eighth century, like 770 something is when the Greek calendar is believed to have begun.
But there's a ton of debate on that too.
Some scholars think that it's only reliable after like the fourth or third century BC.
And they note as well, you see this is involvement in that there's only like two other people.
I think that are really mentioned is trying to put it together.
But yeah, this dude is seriously important for historical studies.
And whenever I hear about him, it's not really talking about his impact on history, but his impact on church history specifically.
And so it's just odd to me that it doesn't get talked about more.
Like you said, I'm in school right now and even my textbooks, this dude is so important for historical understanding.
And our textbooks, I think have maybe two sentences devoted to him and they don't even mention any of his historical works, just his role as a, I think, a bishop.
So yeah, definitely an important dude.
There's talk about Jerome here for a second.
Elias J. Bickerman, he was a prominent scholar in the field of Greco-Roman history during his lifetime.
He noted that history had long been put into the service of the church and that Jerome was the main founder of the framework in which the church and the rest of the Western world sculpted their histories.
And so, like I said, Jerome based his history on Eusebias' and so basically those two guys together went to lay down the foundations until Scaliger.
So Anthony Grafton, probably the leading scholar of chronology today, also noted basically the same thing as Bickerman saying,
Jerome thus created what became the chronological tradition in Western Europe, one that taught simple Christian lessons and used a single coherent diagram to capture all of world history.
And so, all of world history is the history from the creation of the world when God created it.
Some, I think around 4,500 or so years prior to Jerome and then everything up until his point.
And so that was what was used primarily until Scaliger.
And so do you have any questions?
I feel like this is a good spot to quick to get to get a seat.
Yeah, no, this is interesting.
It makes me really scratch my head and wonder if what we hear these guys saying can be trusted.
I mean, we have good reasons to think that some of the stuff these guys say are doubtful.
You know, it does make me want to try and reach out to one of these chronologists and the leading ones and see if I can interview them for the show.
Maybe asking some of your questions and maybe see what kind of answer they have.
You might think they're going to come with consensus, maybe, but maybe they got a good argument.
Maybe they maybe they have something to say that you might see.
And that's what I like about you is that you're like, dude, I'm seriously trying to figure this out.
Like, I don't care if this whole thing ends up being accurate to some degree in the chronology we have is accurate.
But I have good reasons to be doubtful on accepting what I'm told right now in light of this.
This isn't like just a conspiracy theory type thing.
You are bringing real good skepticism, so to speak.
And some might say that like Dr. Price's mythicism is a conspiracy theory.
But when I ask them, like, dude, is this conspiracy theory?
Just giving that as an example relevant to the topic that my channel usually discusses, which is the historicity of Jesus.
A lot of people think that, you know, all mythicism is a conspiracy theory.
Some mythosists maybe.
But when I asked Dr. Price, he's like, no, I really think there's really good evidence within the text and with what we have to suggest that this is a mythological character.
Not that it necessarily is just a complete conspiracy, like they're trying to hide something necessarily.
But later on, people start to hemorrhize.
And so he has his own opinion and theories on this.
Whereas the other conspiracy is that, well, he was just the guy that they made into a God.
So the conspiracy is that he was made divine, but he wasn't really divine.
It's just interesting who calls what a conspiracy, who's the consensus has the weight and the right to say, you guys are the whack jobs for thinking that way.
But I appreciate your skepticism.
I'm obviously not aware of all the information surrounding this idea and these topics, so I cannot comment.
But I would love to get leading chronologists, maybe with your help on the show to ask some of these questions.
With that being said, that's all I had to say.
Just a comment on this, so.
I would love to get them involved.
I've hit up a number of them through email, but I have not heard anything back.
I feel like the general vibe is like until you have some at least the following or a degree or two.
They don't really take you too seriously, which is unfortunate because you really don't need a degree to know what you're talking about.
And even to have a fruitful discussion with a person, like to have an interview with them, ask them some questions and see what they think about stuff.
But definitely, yeah, I'm trying to figure this out.
I'm doing my best to talk to as many people as I can.
And yeah, I'm definitely skeptical.
I don't really care for the term conspiracy theory too much because I feel like it gets tacked on to a lot of stuff that really doesn't fall under the
idea of conspiracy, like two or more people have conspired to do this thing.
But maybe so when you start looking into forgeries and stuff, dude, there's like thousands and thousands and thousands of forgeries.
I earlier this year, I read through like 700 articles on JSTOR on forgery and I have that in a list of everything that I've looked at on my website.
But it's like, I'm not saying everything is a forgery because it's it's important to be able to determine authenticity.
And is this writing actually communicating something true?
Really, the main thing that I'm skeptical for is that people get stuff wrong, especially when they work with incredibly limited information.
And even more so when they work with dogmatic beliefs, things that aren't to be questioned.
Oh, this is not to be questioned.
This is a sacred cow.
You can't slaughter it.
It just, I don't know, maybe that's just me.
But I think everything, even the stuff that I'm saying right now, I would question it myself and try and ask, like, where do I really base this?
What am I basing this on?
And so if any of you actually go and check out this article, I have it thoroughly sourced of like almost every single claim that I have on here is sourced to where I got it from.
So you could see exactly where my information is coming from.
You can bring up issues with the sources that I use if you want to, because to just until recently, yeah, we'll hop around a bit.
But Schaliger, like he's considered the father of modern chronology or scientific chronology.
And this is more of a misconception.
He he didn't actually impact chronology as greatly as some of the earlier scholars that we're looking into this had thought.
And so as Grafton mentions, there were multiple other scholars in the 16th century that were kind of doing what Schaliger was doing, but he took it to like a whole new level.
Like, I'll get into that here in a little bit.
So I will just take a sip of water here real quick and then resume.
All right.
All right, back to the discussion.
So this is Jerome.
This is a painting of him.
I don't know where it came from.
Derek had me grab some images here real quick before the show.
I would imagine it's a Renaissance painting.
It looks very Renaissance styled.
But yeah, what we're talking about, gauging the authenticity of the texts, even determining who these people are and where they come from is a whole another task.
So we'll talk about what the modern consensus is for who Jerome is and how this all played out prior to Schaliger.
Jerome based his chronic on largely on the second half of UCB is his chronic on the second work, aside from the church history that I had mentioned earlier.
And he Jerome brought that up to his own time.
And so basically added like 80 some years to it.
But as a bigger man noted, the surviving manuscripts for UCB is his chronic on more often than not have the wrong dates.
They they don't have the dates that are commonly accepted today.
And so they're nearly useless for Jerome's chronic on, which is the chronology of the ancient world.
And so both both chronic ons were based on anamundi dating.
So that's since the creation of the world.
And I think the idea is that the world was created in the same year as man because God created the world in seven or six days, rested on the seventh.
So the both chronic ons were based on anamundi dating and Jerome not only includes the wrong dates from UCB is his messed up manuscripts.
But well, the dates that today are believed to be incorrect.
But he misdates himself by 115 years.
It'd be like if I said, Derek, it is great to be talking to you here in the year of 1905.
This is fantastic.
I am so glad that we're having this discussion on in November of 1905.
This is what bigger man has to say about it.
He says errors were unavoidable.
Jerome, a chronologist himself writing after 374, congratulates a certain Paul on his hundredth birthday.
Yet elsewhere, he states that Paul knew personally Cyprian of Carthage, who died in 259.
And so that's where Jerome misdates himself by 115 years.
And that is if we are to accept that Jerome even wrote those types of things.
It could have been two different authors that got crunched into one later on.
Or a later interpretation or a forgery or a mistake.
It could have meant to say 359, which would cause an anachronism with Cyprian of Carthage.
But it's a mess.
115 years, no small amount of time displaced.
Like think about it's 2020.
We're talking in November.
If I really thought it was 1905, people would be like, this guy needs some help.
Anachronisms like this aren't just limited to Jerome.
It's exemplified in the near uselessness of UCBs, his datings.
And it's also fun than a lot of other sources, especially with the introduction of radio carbon dating,
more and more historical beliefs are changing because of the C14 dating results.
And so we're today, it's kind of a weird concept of like changing history,
according to these more scientific methods of radio carbon or radiometric dating.
Those have really influenced, like really in the 1870s, geologists kind of hijacked history writing
to prove that God hadn't created the world 6,000 years ago because the world was around longer than that.
But just to summarize this first part for UCBs and Jerome, the manuscripts of UCBs is Chronicon
or nearly worthless today.
His church history is considered fundamental.
Jerome laid the foundation for Western chronology, basing his works on mostly on UCBs and his works have issues.
Both of these people's scientific interests paled in comparison to their ecclesiastical interests,
but their works prevailed nonetheless until Scaliger's time.
So I will pause here for questions if you have any.
All right, cool.
Scaliger and Pitaevious, this is where we are today.
We still base our history mainly on the chronology provided by these guys.
Scaliger is commonly referred to now as the father of modern or scientific chronology.
His works aren't his novel.
Some people had originally thought, but he was among the first to have attempted a more scientific approach to history.
Pitaevious basically took Scaliger's works and refined them for public consumption.
Pitaevious had even laid out 29 fundamental points of chronology, which were not to be questioned.
And these points are still popular today, like the birth of Jesus Christ or the death of Alexander the Great.
According to Pitaevious, you aren't to question that.
Obviously with your show, you know, MythVision, I think there's quite a few people questioning whether or not Jesus Christ is the father of modern or scientific or scientific.
People questioning whether or not Jesus Christ was ever born because to be born, you have to exist.
And if you're a myth, you don't actually exist, except in the stories.
So Scaliger was he's notably motivated by dispelling what he thought were historical misconceptions.
So he had this idea of what actually happened in the past and he went out to crush his opponents in a sense, like to say,
like, look, you're wrong. This is how you're wrong.
His day in Mendesion, one of his main works, he criticized people for adding 80 extra years to the world in order to insert their imaginary kings of Persia.
And so what he saw as I would imagine these other people, they believed that these kings actually existed, that these 80 extra years belonged in the historical record.
Scaliger didn't believe that.
And so he criticized them for it.
It has good and bad aspects to it where he's questioning whether or not other history is true, but he's not really questioning his own.
So on the good side, he aimed to clear up misconceptions, but on the bad side, he spent less time substantiating the basis that he used to determine authenticity.
So he had already accepted it as evidentially true and was working from there.
Scaliger began his most refined and elegant work, the 1606 Thesaurus temporum, in an attempt to reconstruct Eusebius's lost Greek chronicle.
So this brings us back to the importance of Eusebius in chronological studies, because the father of modern chronology, the guy that we still base our history on today,
made one of his most refined and elegant work in an attempt to reconstruct that chronicle, which was since lost.
It again, yeah, brings us back to Eusebius.
And aside from Jerome and Eusebius, the Bible was for a long time the most important source for ancient historical studies in the West.
And Grafton sums up this in a very clear and concise quote here.
Before Scaliger, there had been two schools of thought about the use of ancient sources for chronology.
One school followed the Bible and the text forged by Anias of the Turbo.
The other school followed the Bible alone.
Any questions here?
Yeah, anyone who's done a little bit of research on historiographical stuff or even look at the scholars' debates about this, like my Russell Gamirkin shows right now.
Even he's pointing out issues with taking the biblical text at a historiographical from trusting what it is saying as it's saying it.
You're going to have some problems.
I mean, this is why I love critical scholarship, because I just hook, line and sink or bought it, Stephen, for so long and just accepted what it said.
It wouldn't lie.
This is there.
I forgot to put up his picture when I was talking about him.
But yeah, so basically, like, yeah, the Bible is questionable, but I thought the other thing that really stuck out to me was that aside from the Bible, what people commonly used were the forged texts of Anias of the Turbo.
So really, these texts that are now considered to be fake and forgeries, fabrications, those were really important for historical understanding until really Scaliger came along.
So the Bible here, I'm getting back to reading this.
The Bible was and today still is by some considered to be the only solid basis for chronology because it was the only word delivered by God himself.
So that is solid reasoning.
You know, God literally gave us this book.
We got to use it for our historical studies.
Scaliger, too, considered the Bible to be the only reliable source for chronology, but he also believed that knowledge of other sources was necessary for a full picture understanding of history.
And so Scaliger still worship the Bible as the core, the backbone.
But, you know, you can figure out what these other guys are trying to say through the Bible, how they interact with it and how it holds up.
Nowadays, really, the Bible has been pushed all the way to the side and the other guys are now the main figures that we talk about, which really people don't talk about them too much.
They just refer to them as the name, the authority, and then discuss what has been attributed to them popularly.
So the other source, Anias of the Turbo, he lived in about the mid 15th century to the first decade of the 16th century.
His activities influenced European circles of scholarship until about the mid 18th century.
So about 250 years, this guy seriously impacted European scholarship.
What he's most famous for today are his forgeries, which caused quite a bit of controversy, received condemnation by some notable characters, including Scaliger himself.
But they were still accepted by many as highlighted in Grafton's quote.
And here Grafton continues to comment on it.
He says, hard though it is to believe almost all 16th century scholars were taken in by these forgeries.
In fact, virtually every world chronicle and every study of national origins written before Scaliger rested in whole or in part on an iron materials.
So this I just want to interject and bring up, like, these are the people that you would be appealing to today, and they're not even in the same ballpark like sciences have developed an incredible amount since these guys, but like, if you were back then and you weren't educated, Scaliger, aside from Isaac Casablan, aside from him, Scaliger was considered the most learned man in Europe.
And so if you're appealing to information from the most learned man in Europe, like as a layperson, that's about as good as you're going to get unless you actually become educated on the topic.
And even with that, most of these people were still influenced by these forgeries, which they thought were legit.
Like, these are the greatest thinkers to appeal to them is that's what you have to do.
And so the idea this is carrying over to today, I admit, sciences have developed more, but what authorities are still using forged documents or even it doesn't have to be forged.
It doesn't have to be an intentional forging like we're so far removed from these manuscripts that misunderstanding can definitely, I think it can definitely explain a lot of these issues that show up.
People just didn't know what they were looking at, they were eager to establish their histories, they didn't know what they were looking at, and now we have these authorities that we base stuff on like Eusebius and Jerome and
Josephus, basically any historian of ancient or medieval times, those became defined and accepted in this time period around Scaliger and after Scaliger.
So it just makes me wonder, like, what else do we still have wrong to continue?
I guess I didn't really talk about Pitaeius too much in these show notes, but basically Pitaeius just refined Scaliger's work for public consumption.
He was sort of an adversary, he was an enemy, kind of the Jesuits had a reputation for hating Scaliger and Scaliger wasn't fond of them either, but Pitaeius was a Jesuit and recognized Scaliger's genius or his merits and historical studies and still went on to finish that off.
So here is the last little bit from the first part of this presentation, probably the longest part of the presentation.
I just, yeah, I wonder how many authentic historians are just misunderstood or later fakes.
The area of historical studies for fakes, forgeries and hoaxes, it's severely underdeveloped, which is a shame because, as I have sourced in this article here, the fabrication of antiquities had become big business since about the turn of the 16th century.
So about 100 years prior to Scaliger's effort, big business, faking history, 100 years prior to when people actually started trying to even attempt a scientific analysis of history, which again, I'm not saying that all of history is fake, but it's enough, at least for me to scratch my head and wonder like how big of a business are we talking.
And I've got a series, I've got one season up so far, it's called Killing Time, it's available for all my patrons, I'm working on season two right now, it's going to be way nicer edited videos and everything, higher quality content, but when I was looking into that, like, basically everybody that looks into fakes and forgeries, I think even Grafton, yeah, I've got this Biblioteca fictiva, it's this massive book that covers like
maybe 1,676 forgeries or something, it's like the fiction Bible or something, the library of fiction, written by, I can't remember the guy's name right now, but I've been, I got it for my birthday, I've been reading over it all year.
Grafton wrote in the intro part to it, just a short paragraph saying, you know, it'll make you question the ingenuity of humanity and how creative they can get.
But basically, like, most of these guys that have taken some time to look into it, they'll admit, like, yeah, history is kind of sketchy and definitely it is a possibility that we could just have it completely wrong.
The father of genealogical studies, I gotta get these names down, but I've got it somewhere, basically says, like, yeah, every single ancient source is under question right now, like, we're still going through it, trying to figure it out, and that was, like, I think early 21st century that he was saying that, so just within the last two decades, but
another guy, PhD in history, can't recall his name, but he was saying the same thing, like, historical studies, they do require all facts to be questioned, to be investigated.
There's never a point in history where we shouldn't be able to go back and say, like, did Jesus Christ really exist? Is this a real person? If not, what is this? What are we looking at here? There's no point where anything should not be questioned, which is kind of the
stance that I take is, you know, let's just ask questions, what's the harm in that, and trying to figure out what the answers are.
So really, yeah, I focus in on, like, why do we think this? What is it that we think, and why do we think it? That's kind of the driving passion to what I'm looking into here, so
that's the fundamentals or the basics of chronology and what we have today. Since Scourger and Patavius, it hasn't changed much in the past, except for prehistory, because, you know, in the 18th, the late 19th century, people started thinking,
maybe God didn't create the world, maybe it is a lot more than what we think, and so now we've got tons of prehistory, and it has changed, but ancient history, the Romans and Greeks, stuff like that has not changed much.
Any questions?
Yeah, if what you're suggesting we investigate, it might change the game for so many. I think, I think it's quite an interesting question to ask, are we correct in our understanding, what is going on here, and so I think it's, I think it's honorable, I think you're really trying to
understand, you're doing your best to wrap your head around what is forgery, what is not, and I guess the one question that comes to my mind, not necessarily asking you to answer this question, but I'm saying this for our listeners, is hopefully the sciences that we have will help us to determine dating chronology to some better degree,
even though no matter what we do, there's going to be certain areas I expect as we try to figure out historical events using the sciences we are learning to try and date from carbon dating and other things, that we won't really be able to know, it's all going to be kind of probability or
or suggestion, or this might be, might not, you know, there's like, history is very, very flexible. I just did an interview with Tim O'Neill and he said, one of the problems with a lot of dogmatists and you find this with fundamentalists, you also find this with strict mythicists or others too that are out there and
of course is all of, each camp, if you will, has a dogmatic corner for some, and they feel comfortable knowing they have the answers, knowing they have the truth, and being dogmatic about it makes them confident and feel comfortable.
Not many people are willing to go where you're going and saying, who knows.
I'm quite confident and not at sketchy. I have confidence in the exact opposite. I don't know, and I'm confident about that.
No, I mean, and I respect that, I mean, I get it, and you have good reason to doubt it, okay.
What I'm suggesting is that you're not closed off to sciences that might come better than historiographical or ancient sources that aren't well trusted, so to speak.
You're open minded to other fields playing a part as we continue to learn and develop our sciences and research on knowing how to date so many things, you're open to that.
And one of the things we aren't really to trust is, and I posted a recent meme on MythVision Facebook group, I'm sure you saw, when a fundamentalist Christian says, don't trust everything you read.
I mean, it's like, dude, you're reading a book that you trust and you're telling me not to trust things you read. Well, I think you're kind of suggesting the same thing.
Don't trust, especially with all the forgeries and stuff that are out there, just don't trust everything you read. Really do serious research before you make a dogmatic stance or say, ah, nope, you're wrong.
How do you know I'm wrong? Stephen's asking you guys, how do you know that he's wrong in questioning these things?
How do you know that you're right? Well, what evidence do we have for you serious? Because that's what I was saying on the Schaliger is that you can go after other people.
Like, you can attack what they believe in. No, Krishna wasn't a real person. He never actually walked the earth. That's just a Hindu myth.
You could do that, but when it comes to you, how well are you actually defending your belief? You believe if you believe Alexander the Great existed, why do you believe that?
And I mean, I've been looking into this for a few years, so it's not like I've put my whole entire life into this, but from what I've experienced so far, typically the belief, the reasons for it are incredibly shallow.
They're not the result of a lifetime of critical investigation of, oh, I'm going to find out if Alexander the Great actually existed. It's more so, how could he have not existed?
We have coins. And so, yeah, definitely there's a lot of work to be done on why we believe what we believe and getting that up and available, like testing the historicity of our own beliefs of why do I think that possibly Alexander the Great didn't exist.
And that's what I talk about on this podcast and on my website, basically on everything that I do is the support to why am I even questioning any of this? Like why don't I just believe the first thing I heard and not turn back on it?
So, yeah, that's basically the end of part one. This I forgot to put up the picture. This is Petavius. His image. I don't know if there's some of these characters.
So, yeah, we'll hear briefly about fundamental literary sources. So the Greco-Roman timeline, the, it's the backbone for Western history to a certain degree to world history.
And then goes into some detail about it on page 82 of his ancient chronology book. His conclusion is that where the link to Roman, where the link to Roman chronology is broken, we grope vainly for certitude.
So talking about being confident or being certain, like this definitely happened. Jesus Christ definitely was born and died. If there's no link to the Roman chronology, then we are on upon sketchy grounding.
So even the link to Roman chronology for Jesus' birthday is through Herod, the guy who tries to kill him in his early years. And I think it's irony, it's ironic that the Roman chronology is that which would eventually go to disprove that Christ was born in
2000 and 20 years ago. I think the idea is that he was born in like 4 BC, because of the person that Herod was ruling under. And so we're really in like 2016, if we were dating from when Jesus is believed to have been born, but that's for a different day.
So the foundation for Roman chronology was mostly even still today, it's mostly just literary sources. Today, they have archeology and mathematics, which goes into it, but both of those core issues in their present state, which I'm willing to discuss, but it's not really relevant for this part.
So for the literary sources, the vast majority of the surviving relics, which are just manuscripts or fragments or inscriptions, the relics are dated much later than the times in which they're believed to have originally been written.
Potentially is not a major issue, but I think it is quite a big issue, especially for trying to gauge the validity. Like, I think it was with Babylon in the 17th, 18th century that people started finally saying the closer we can get to the event, the better.
I'm pretty sure I've heard some people say that on your podcast before, you know, and that is the thing, you know, the closer you can get to the event, ideally, somebody writing about the event as it's taking place.
That's the best source you can get. Like, if I'm, if I'm writing about my childhood, or if I'm writing about what I ate for breakfast this morning, like me writing that down is going to have more authenticity than somebody across the world.
20 years later, trying to figure out what I had for breakfast on November 5, 2020.
So this is a crude example, but like, people get the point, I think so the closer you are the better you are. That's a, that's a newer idea, but we don't have anything really that close for these ancient sources.
For the Bible and stuff, I know a lot of people have really heavy confidence in the dating of the Dead Sea Scrolls, I think that they're sketchy, definitely sketchy.
For the, for the reason that we have absolutely no mention of them until they were discovered in the 20th century, I think maybe some of them were in the 19th, but definitely in the 20th century, a lot of the bigger ones were discovered.
Which no provenance, there's nothing there to determine whether or not.
I'm and the people that were dating it definitely we're not questioning whether or not we can rely upon this timeline.
It's, it's sketchy. Another thing, which I think is an issue is the lack of interest and shedding light on the ownership so when you are talking about the Dead Sea Scrolls people don't want to talk about that they don't want to talk about where did these actually come from like what.
What can we tell about how they were there for so long.
The history of the surviving literary relics. There's a center for the study of manuscripts or something. I think it's by Wallace, possibly, it's by one of the big names and textual studies he's got a center for studying manuscripts and basically the center gives almost no attention at all ever to the
of the manuscripts which they're digitizing so I've joked that they should change the name of their center to the center for the digitization of manuscripts instead of the study because.
That's basically what they're doing they're digitizing them and not really studying them or where they came from like you could put on the website it's really easy to add a little line of text saying this was acquired by BD or something like saying where it came from and where it is today but.
They aren't interested in that and so I think that's an issue like trying to understand where something comes from that is important, especially in light of the forgery stuff like not saying that they are forgeries, but there is that possibility there was a huge scandal.
Earlier in this century where a the side real nuns yes of Galileo it was believed to be a picture of the moon that Galileo hand drew himself and for like years experts poured over this scientific studies were done on it to confirm its authenticity, it was believed for sure to be a.
An authentic Galileo and Galileo manuscript and it took three weeks I think it was for the experts to approach it from the opinion of is it a forgery took them less than three weeks to determine actually Galileo didn't do this it was someone else and so.
Regardless of all these scientific studies to prove it was true and all these commentaries that accepted it is true it eventually came out to be a fake and again that is just I'm not saying everything is going to be like that but it's enough to question like how do we know this is true.
So, I've, I've done this type of manuscript research which I'm about to talk about for tons of others decided the xenophon sets us Polybius syculeus and stray boat just to name a few Roman historians such as Livy solid status to Tony is playing the elder and dio Cassius, among others, and the majority of their surviving records are obscure, they've been given little to no
they're the texts, the standardized texts which are used today those have been analyzed a lot but the origins of these texts still are just obscure.
Prior to scourgery, even to a degree after him the pagan authors were not considered strong authorities for history so, even until recently they weren't really, it was around like the formation of the disciplines in the 18th to 19th century that a lot of these manuscripts have their earliest
provenance because people are like, maybe we should pay attention to where these things come from instead of just accepting at all a face value so herodotus and arrow.
I chose between them because herodotus is commonly called the father of history, and he's a Greek historian and Varo has long been credited with determining the date of the foundation of Rome, which is the foundation, the foundation date which is currently popular.
Mommy gliano a famous name in historical studies he commented saying, it is a strange truth that herodotus has really become the father of history only in modern times.
And I included that just because it's like, it really is a modern perspective like the things that people think about history today were not thought about history, just even a couple hundred years ago.
Herodotus he lived in the fifth century BC, allegedly, and his earliest surviving manuscript aside from the papyri which were just found recently, his earliest surviving manuscript has been dated to the 10th century AD.
So, not, it has provenance, the provenance for is extremely obscure for this early one, but based on modern opinion, it's been dated to the 10th century of the common era so it's some 1500 years or 1400 years removed.
His earliest surviving manuscripts and dated to the 11th century, possibly his 16th century provenance but it's mostly obscure. And so, here we've got Varo from the second, the first century BC, his earliest ones from the 11th so for herodotus there's gap of about 13 and a half hundred years for Varo there's about 11 and a half hundred years.
And this is a lot of time like, it's not just only around 1200 years like that is a ton of time for the earliest surviving record of this person to actually having the person so who knows really the differences.
So, these are just the gaps based on the recent datings of the manuscripts these aren't even the gaps on the earliest provenance like I was saying with Varo it's dated to the 11th century, the 11th century CE but it possibly like, maybe we know, like we know about it for
the rest of the day we know where it's at but maybe we kind of know where it was in the 16th century.
It's just obscure. That's the word for it. The reason that provenance is because it helps strengthen the authenticity of the dating and no provenance is sketchy at best like if for the Dead Sea Scrolls if the only thing we know about it is that yeah we had it in 1960.
It's not very good provenance for saying for sure like
thing for the last 2000 years, we got it now you can trust us it's from the last, it's from 2000 years ago, no doubt about it.
And obviously their arguments are a bit more complex than that but I think it's mostly based on the radiocarbon dating is the main go to where they say well it's been radiocarbon dated and that's reliable, which I have issues with.
And then, aside from that there might be some linguistic arguments that you can make out the language goes with what else is there which is really based on all these other manuscripts which we believe are from that area.
They kind of sound like this manuscript that we just got here so we can date it to them but it's obscure and incredibly sketchy.
So that's, and that's the case for basically all of the ancient sources and even for a lot of the medieval sources, we've got manuscripts.
I was talking to Derek about this earlier so we'll move away from biblical studies we'll talk about English history, the Anglo Saxon Chronicle, it's backbone for English history, it's what we base our modern understandings like if the popular opinion that you're going to learn
school is based on the Anglo Saxon Chronicle manuscripts and these all have such sketchy origins, and the people that it's just like nobody's looking into them either like biblical studies has a lot more scholars looking into the texts and the traditions
than English history does. There's significantly fewer and it's just so odd to me because it's, I don't know, I'm not going to get into that too much but basically we've got these manuscripts for the Anglo Saxon Chronicle the very first one.
I've done a bit of a deep dive into it, it's provenance is so sketchy, it's named the Parker manuscript after Matthew Parker because he's the first one that we know for certain had it.
Maybe we don't even know it for certain that he had it but that that's who it's just attributed to. That's why it's got his name. We believe that he got it from Nicholas Watton, and where Watton got it, it's anybody's guess as to where it came from.
This is one of the most important manuscripts for English history. Nobody seems to care that nobody knows where Watton got it, nobody knows how or when Parker got it from Watton.
I mean, it's, it's just got an incredibly sketchy history even as to where it is there's some conflicting information out there and the, I mean I don't want to, the libraries aren't really responsible for knowing all about the books they're responsible for taking care of them but
all the librarians don't seem to care too much I've talked to one of them did is just a sad state of affairs in my opinion that people aren't more interested in looking into this.
I, like you said I'm really open to my all this like, I would not care if it turns out at the end of the day that modern scholarship the popular opinions, all that stuff, it's correct.
But I still want to know the answers to some of these questions like I know for a fact that nobody yet. I've had this article out for months.
Nobody has commented on it nobody's commented on the video yet answering any of the questions that I have about this manuscript, one of the most fundamentally important manuscripts for English history.
There's not a single Englishman out there that wants to know for certain is history much less like anybody else that's interested in English history.
That's my mind. I'm an American I've never left America but I feel like I've got such an interest in world history, more so than a lot of people do, or maybe I just go about it and more critically minded like my interest level is the same as those people that are super interested in it but
I want to know the basis I want to know exactly what it's rooted in.
That is my appeal on the fundamental literary sources it's basically like every source is sketchy until the 17th century.
So Steven, this is this is really interesting.
I share some of your skepticism.
I must admit, that's kind of a dangerous ground to walk on like it for some you got to imagine right like we can't know anything.
There's no way to know which Dr Price talks about this he says that biblical or critical scholars in the New Testament, if they don't firmly base the seven Pauline epistles as authentic.
Their entire foundation is ripped beneath them and they cannot he says, it's almost like they know better than to doubt the authenticity of the Pauline seven, because if they do their entire theories of the development of this religion and such.
I'm not saying they can't speculate, but they can't like be somewhat certain, or have some type of like solid argument by saying look, we know Paul came first, or at least writing wise Paul's earliest and then you know they make all these arguments sorry for
my kids in the background.
That was my spirits in my dungeon.
No.
But Steven like, I hope that this video gains attention to get a serious person maybe a chronologist to consider coming on the show.
And look, what do we want we want critical thought right so we want some of the come on here and pretty much prove you wrong right. We want some of the come on here and say, Alright Steven.
I understand you're looking for something with firm provenance and I understand some of the stuffs, you know, really skeptical.
Should we accept it, but I'm going to explain some things that maybe you haven't considered and here you go and maybe you can join me for the show.
What is what I want not hateful argumentive, you know, bashing with derogatory terms and disrespect no, I want real questions to be answered the best we can and see if it stands the test that's what I want to hear.
And I hope that you'd be willing to join me for something like that but I would be about that yeah definitely.
I am willing to get on cam. Honestly, I prefer to do it on camera because like so much gets lost over text. I feel like a lot of people when I'm commenting some of this stuff like they're like oh this.
This guy.
I'm just looking for this, my list of questions questions about the Parker manuscripts so anybody that's out there and like you said, bringing people on to show exactly where I'm wrong like I, I think I've got everything correct so far on this presentation that I've shared.
If you think I've got something wrong. I don't care like I, I welcome you to share that with me if you think I got something wrong, don't hit me up and be like, Hey, I think you got this really wrong, like, go to hell.
Like, hit me up be like, Hey, I think you got this really wrong and here's what I think is right and comment a link or something like give me something to work with.
Because it's one thing to just say you think someone's wrong and it's another to actually give reasons as to why you think they're wrong. So,
a couple questions just for the Parker manuscript anyone listening that's interested in English history, who dated it, who dated it to the date that it's on right now when was that date first attributed to it.
Nobody has answered that yet. When was it first believed to have originated in Winchester. That's the, that's where it's believed to have originated when was that first conceived.
When did Parker call it the dude that it's named after did he call it the Parker Chronicle, I'm Matthew Parker and this is my Parker Chronicle.
When was it named the Parker Chronicle.
And does what never mentioned where he got it or what he called it. Also, when was the library at Corpus first called Parker library because the Corpus Christi College Cambridge, the library there is library, and
the answer is to when that occurred also wondered what and give the Parker the manuscript there's a lot of questions, like, really basic ones like when was the library first named the Parker library.
That seems like a really simple question. Nobody's answered it yet.
The fundamental dude to be the owner and the person that one of the most fundamental English manuscripts is named after. Don't even know when the library was named after him much less the manuscript.
So yeah, that's, I can get in. We got just one part left to go through here, if you want to tackle it.
So, final section, part three, formation of the disciplines let's talk about how do we date stuff. We're going to have chronologists on I'm going to discuss with them. We can have archaeologists paleographers
and diplomatists, literally anyone that studies historical information there's a host of auxiliary sciences for history but basically, there's a number of disciplines which are used today for dating literature but the two most important ones are paleography and
mathematics. Paleography can be defined as the study of ancient documents and their provenance of old types of handwriting and of obsolete forms of the language.
Diplomatics can be defined as the science of deciphering old official documents as charters and of determining their authenticity age or the like. And so these are two almost.
The sciences of twin studies that are both important for gauging the authenticity. How do we know that what we're reading is true, and the history of where did this thing that we're reading come from.
And the guy that is the credited father of these is this dude, model on. He's got such a cheeky look in this picture I laugh every time I see it.
And he's sort of like, he's writing with his pen and he's like, Oh, I didn't mean to interrupt you with my writing. I'm just gauging the authenticity of these documents.
Mabalon and Montfacon. These are the two characters that I've got for talking about the disciplines the paleography and diplomatics mainly founded in the 17th and 18th centuries.
Mabalon is the uncontested founder of diplomatics, but the founder of paleography is either split between him or Bernard day Montfacon.
Both of these dudes to go back to talking about Christian influence on historical understanding. Both of them were French benedictine monks.
They were members of the clergy and held a strong belief that Jesus is definitely existed and God was looking out for everyone.
Regardless of the titles, the two disciplines gained significant traction with these two key players so
from there really it was in the 19th and 20th centuries that those became more so official sciences but these guys laid the founding the groundwork and the sciences and humanities which we have today were mainly founded in the 19th century,
and well after the general scheme of chronology had been established so really a lot of these are, they already take for granted that yeah we know for sure you know Roman 752 and Greek calendar 774 or something like that dude Jesus was around
20 years ago we just got to fill in the gaps between these major events.
That's, that's the basis of our sciences and humanities like almost none of these have considered like what the result would be if this is fundamentally flawed.
We just accept it that it isn't flawed and then they base stuff on that so like with radio carbon dating the half life started determined based on an already accepted timeline and if you were to wiggle the, the dating for the artifacts that were used to determine
the half life that would significantly change how long the half life is.
Just as a brief example but the between the two categories sciences and humanities and the split between these is not even really in existence like it's more of an artificial split that I think some people have come up with the kind of trying are you for a
superiority of science over humanity humanities but basically like chemistry astronomy physics natural sciences they've had tons of overviews of their histories written.
So if you want to go and check out the history of physics, you can find books on the history of physics like the bring you through all the different developments that are believed to have happened but sciences they've had brief over they've had
brief overviews like even in depth overviews for their different wings of science but the humanities have not yet had this they haven't had their histories written yet in depth there's been some brief overviews but really those are from this
century like they're really new and history itself is considered to be an art like I'm getting a bachelors in history it's a bachelors of arts in history to be a it's not a BS it's a.
It's not anything but history itself kind of is a lot of a science it's with the auxiliary sciences that's really how history is written today is getting as many of those as you can to back up your position but as far as the history of history
goes that hasn't really been written like how has history been developed like I would wager that the majority of people watching this video if they made it to this far in it.
I haven't heard most of the information that I've shared yet and the information that I've shared so far is really basic stuff like it's stuff that I think people need to learn on day one of looking into history.
In the class I'm taking the book that I'm using like I mentioned that it's from ancient history until the enlightenment.
It's a history book it's teaching history students I'm a freshman.
So I'm still new maybe the history books will get better, but I would imagine for an introductory textbook you would want to name the key players in that sculpted modern day understanding of history.
They barely mentioned UCBS in Jerome, and they don't mention it all Scaliger or Batavius, which are the two dudes that basically laid the foundation for what we see and they both of those guys were born before the enlightenment period.
So they would be included in that textbook. It's within the time frame for the book itself.
It's just like, this is really basic stuff barely anybody's looked into it and that just highlights the fact that history itself does not have a history for the development of historical understandings.
At least not in depth one there are many fractured ones here and there but as far as an overall overview goes, it's missing.
And that's the same for all the other arts but basically the late founding of paleography and diplomatics as well as the rest of the sciences and humanities it's problematic in my opinion and the general scheme of history already being agreed upon before developing these things.
I find that to be like a cart before the horse to to establish the basic framework for historical narrative before establishing the methods necessary for methodically establishing a solid basic framework.
The framework got built and then they were like, alright, let's figure out how to build a solid framework after it was already there and so they're building upon this sketchy construction, in my opinion, and if you think otherwise I'm more than open to hearing your
questions but this seems to be a seems to be all pretty cut and dry as far as the modern consensus goes so I'm yeah I'm going to continue my studies into this but it's definitely sketchy on all I think the fact that the majority of important sources are
really obscure is one of the greatest issues in establishing stalls solid studies into the past. And I think more efforts into establishing these histories will benefit historical studies greatly and in turn help us determine reality from myth, which is really what myth vision and see
truth is all about is trying to figure out what actually happened, what didn't happen, and how can we tell between the two.
And you definitely are in a much more controversial area in my opinion, then what I do, obviously with what I do is like this guy or guys maybe Muhammad maybe Buddha, like, did they exist.
I don't really question the ground we're standing on, you know what I'm saying, and we're questioning the building structure to the building not realizing the foundation in which all of this is being laid over.
And you're questioning that I hope we can get someone's attention, so that I can get them to come on and maybe dispel some of the things that are mysteries or issues and questions that you've brought up.
You know, to really have them kind of answer the question I mean if consensus and understanding of the dating we have chronology that we have is accurate or mostly accurate, which is sound like at the end there you were saying look, they're
something that they already had an infrastructure with not really reasons to build the infrastructure the way they did other than probably historiographical stuff that's built on forgeries and things like that is modern is the modern consensus of chronology
really and not only chronology but all the other fields that are basing them off these already assumed dates and such. If they are correct. I want someone to come on and show why you're wrong, you know what I mean not to be like ha ha competition.
I couldn't care less. I want that too though.
Right. And that's what I'm trying to do here. I don't want anyone to take you as this guy who's like come prove me wrong because honestly nothing you bring to the tables wrong or going to be right I just want you to be wrong.
So he comes on here and they're an expert in knowing how carbon dating works and can say hey without a without a doubt there's good reason to establish the dating of these manuscripts at these times and here's why we would establish the Dead Sea Scrolls to these times, not necessarily
assuming hey, the language is very similar to something we already established and based off the time we established those Hebrew writings, we're basing the Hebrew writings that are written or the Aramaic or whatever it might be the Greek in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
We're just going to go ahead and assume it's dated around that time as this.
If they can show good reasons why we should trust some of these things. I'm, I want to learn, you know.
And maybe you could join me and maybe they'd be willing to join me with you if they aren't I just do a show with them whatever they're willing to do. I'm interested in learning from them.
But my point is is, I want to see why the consensus thinks what they do which is why I'm also, if you've noticed bring a lot more historical Jesus onto the channel.
I want to hear why there was a guy I want to hear the arguments for the existence of a guy through the mythology.
I mean, has the mythology muddied the water so bad as let's just say have forgeries muddied the chronology so bad that we can't establish really what the history was.
You're not saying that hey, this could be the case we just don't have really good evidence is what you're saying.
I don't think it's good enough to be so dogmatic and firm on it. We can give hey this is what what's been suggested, but how do we know that for sure.
And so that's kind of what I'm trying to do and I think we're going to keep learning more as time goes by maybe this will ring the bells of some of the big names out there, and maybe you can give me some big names after this.
I do recommend everybody who watches this please go show him some love show him some support you may not agree with him that's okay I hope you don't in some cases because this is how we learn.
If we all agreed I don't know if I'd have anything to learn from you about if we just all came to the same conclusions, you bring something new every time we talk it's been a while and you've established some new ideas in my mind it makes me wonder.
Are we completely off or could we be on the right track so this is my last question to you if you will.
Before we end up wrapping things up because I want everybody to go to your website. I want them to go and ask questions.
Maybe they can bring something some insight that we're not looking at but my last question is this do you think and I know your last statement about the building of these things are kind of on faulty ground.
Do you think we're headed in the right direction with the sciences that we do have do you think that we will get closer to the truth using these things or do you think we're just way off the mark when there's just no way to know.
I think that's a good question I think yeah we're heading in the right direction.
I mean, it's yeah it's really about analyzing the basics and I think if we're so as some contrast with people only using the Bible as their source for ancient history.
I guess if it turns out that God does get proved I personally am not really convinced that there is any God out there much less the specific Christian God that spoke the Bible through the people that wrote it but I think moving beyond just one source or even dogmatically accepting all the popular sources.
Really yeah I think we were moving in a good direction people are starting to want to gain more information we're in an age where more people can gain more information.
There's more if people are watching this then they've at least got a computer or some sort of electronic device maybe their friend ripped it off and put it on a VCR that they're watching it through but like.
I think chances are you're probably on like your phone or like YouTube or something you know you're not listening to this back on a cassette tape that your uncle gave you but.
It's like people are learning more the lower class delay people they're able to get their hands on more information than ever before and I think part of this is why people are starting to question more because all these different sources from across like.
Some people hold conflicting beliefs and have that cognitive dissonance but I think a lot of people are still capable of understanding like yeah I can't believe that God created the world.
Six thousand years ago and also believe the earth is billions of years old so they have to choose between one of the two.
That's kind of how this is with the historical studies but yeah I think we're moving in the right direction I think definitely people need to keep asking questions even question their own answers and the answers of others.
I just don't see anything bad coming out of asking questions unless it's like leading down this rabbit trail of like Derrick's wearing a white shirt like why is Derrick wearing a white shirt.
Oh it's because he's a Mormon and why is Derrick a Mormon.
Oh well it's because he believes in God and the devil and stuff like that like you got to analyze these answers you and your audience from I mean I've been following you for at least a year and a half if not like two years or more but.
Generally I think your audience does ask more questions wants to understand what's true. I mean your whole channel is myth vision it's about figuring out what's true and not true, more so about Jesus but like you said you have more people on.
You've had me on which I'm kind of I guess I would identify somewhat as a mythicist is and I think that tons of people might be myths like hundreds of characters from ancient history.
But even that I'm not going to be dogmatic I'm not going to say like I think for a fact Alexander the Great didn't exist.
And you're dumb for thinking he did or something like that. I'm not really too prone or keen on insulting people if they think differently than me I just want to discuss the evidence what are we working with here what are the actual sources of information that we're using.
And so, in that, I want to make sure my grounding is safe. It's kind of a weird situation where like, if history is wrong, it's like built. It's like a card, it's a house of cards built on sand.
Kind of like the biblical analogy no don't build your house on sand build it on the rock and the rock is Jesus.
It's, it's almost as if like I'm looking at this house, and I'm trying to determine if it is built on sand or if it's built on rock, and it's, it's hazy I can't tell for certain yet.
I'm inviting other people to come look at this and tell me do you think that sand that it's on like is this really a solid building to be hanging up all these tapestries and doing all the intricate design on it like is this just going to fall in five years.
Come join me. If, even if you do want to say how much you hate me and what I'm doing, you can comment that I am kind of interested in seeing like what people, I guess like, but the hate, the hate filled have to say but more so I want those scholars I want the people asking
questions or offering information that I don't yet have, like chances are if it's a really basic historical thing like what Derek was saying about having people on to ask me questions like, Well, have you ever considered the linguistics of this.
Chances are, yeah, probably I have and I have questions about that and so well Derek was talking about having people on to ask me questions I just imagine it going and they're going to get in here and I'm going to have a couple questions for them to see what they think about stuff.
So, yeah, I'm interested in coming back on having a three person discussion maybe have Derek, moderate it and then have a back and forth. I wouldn't consider myself an expert.
I don't consider myself as an amateur, but even as an amateur, I'm aware that I'm on the higher end of the amateur level for what I'm looking into than what some other like, you could be an expert in biblical studies and never have ever considered looking into
anything else and so your footing on that is going to be extremely limited like if all you know is biblical studies then you're not really, you could be the world's most leading expert in that like you could have Bart Ehrman in here and I could start asking them questions about where these manuscripts
come from he wouldn't know a thing.
It's just interesting what what type of expertise is actually needed to confirm history, what types of people are we actually looking for here.
And I think the types of people that we're looking for the ones that have that are kind of like me I would hope that there's people out there that have done more than what I've done so far but people that have
fundamental surviving manuscripts who are these people where do these ideas come from people that are familiar with that type of information so if, if you're watching this, you're a fan of Derek, hit him up with some names.
Tell him, hey Derek I watched your interview with Steven, I think so and so would be a fantastic person for him to talk to, because I do want to learn like really I love learning.
I'm info filiac.
You know, I love new information. I'm non info phobic.
I'm not afraid of information. Please comment it.
Then like I said at the very beginning, all of my articles on my website allow commenting all of my videos on YouTube allow commenting. I've got my email up easy to find.
I'm super easy to contact if you think I got something wrong. Let me know if you think I got something right, and you're just hearing about it through me. Let me know. Hit me up. I want to talk to people.
Steven's social security number is not just kidding.
So,
I got my social I got my address my blood types up there.
Right, right as telephone number.
No, I definitely want to get someone on I wasn't saying I just want to get anyone on I want to try and get someone who's a heavy hitter in this area if you guys know anybody that is a skilled person in this particular field that can help handle some of these questions and deal with these things I'd like to have
them join me on the show even if it's just me if they're not willing to join Steven or if they are willing to join Steven.
That would be wonderful to have a discussion I'm not interested in the debate necessarily I'm sure that the questions can create a little bit like, you know, you got to really think and dig and an attack that idea so to speak but this is not a personal thing this is not a you versus them.
I'm not interested in truly understanding some of these things because I don't know these things. I don't know how far off you are, or if you're on the money, because I'm not aware of the study so someone watching might go all that's complete conspiracy all that's
complete wacky I can't even believe you interviewed this guy.
You're talking to someone who doesn't know this in fact with our conversation I think you have good reason to ask these questions. I don't know the answer to these so anyone who thinks that can go blow smoke okay I don't care.
One of the things is, I'm ignorant. I don't know and I mean that in a derogatory sense though my wife says that half the time. I'm just kidding.
So, I mean, I'm really ignorant on the topic I want to learn more I want to get a professional to come on here.
Answer some of these questions, because most of you who are probably like me are going to say something Steven is going to go.
I talked about this because I'm tired of repeating the same answer on my my skepticism and why your etymology doesn't work or why you throw up carbon dating but if I have a professional, or an expert in the field on carbon dating an expert in etymological things
or an expert in something that might help date concretely some fact that you would say that dates prior to let's say the 1000s AD.
I would be interested in finding out how we can date those things and what we can do to concrete some of the stuff so Steven thank you for joining me.
Go check out his website. I do want to have him come back on to talk about more of his research and things that he's looking into.
Let me let me know what you guys think down in the comment section. Hit this a thumbs up if you like the video I really hope you do.
And let me know if you guys have any ideas that I can ask Steven if not go ask him yourself and Steven could share that information with me.
Maybe for an upcoming show at some point. Thank you for joining me bro.
Thanks for having me Derek. Talk to you later.
You too and ladies and gentlemen, for any of you who keep on forgetting I don't know how like you keep on doing this.
I really don't get it. But in case you do forget we are myth vision.
