How old is the Old Testament? The Hebrew Bible? Was it written back in the Persian or Babylonian
times? Russell Gamirkin, who's an independent researcher, scholar, and he's done a lot of
research for a long period of time, he's come to the conclusion that the Bible may not be as old
as one may suppose. Stay tuned and don't forget, check out the description. He has a few books,
Borosis and Genesis, Menetho and Exodus, his second book, Plato and the Creation of the
Hebrew Bible. Can you imagine if the Hebrew Bible was written during the Hellenistic period?
What if it's not as old as what we thought? But Derek, what about all the Babylonian type of
texts that we see in like Genesis? Or what about the Assyrian-Persian type of combination of things
that we start to see with Zoroastrianism? How can that be written during the Hellenistic period?
You're going to want to see this show. Russell Gamirkin is going to be obviously coming back
to entertain us again. He's talked about the Dead Sea Scrolls. He has thoughts on the New Testament.
We go all over the place during this introductory show. Go show him some love,
hit like on this video, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to comment your thoughts down
below. Thanks a lot, everybody. We are Mithvision. For those of you who are like me and who are gripped
by this book, we call the Bible, which is a compilation, depending on the canon that you
particularly saw favored in your denomination, your sect, whatever it may be. We were all gripped
by this, and it truly had me by the soul, so to speak. And I've obviously deconstructed over a
long period of time to come to the conclusions I'm at today, and I'm still learning, and I'm still
trying to wrap my head around, what is this book? Where did it come from? Who wrote it? Why did they
write it? What is the nuances and then nook and crannies and the details in this thing? How do
we know why are these things important? Well, kind of look at it like somebody who beat me up,
you know, traumatized me in my past, and here I am looking at this book going, I gotta figure out
my, the guy that had me gripped so bad and hurt me so bad in so many ways and may have caused me
harm, and there were some good memories. Don't get me wrong. Well, today we have somebody with a
very interesting theory, Russell Gamirkin, and I hope I pronounced that better than any other host
that you've had on your show. You did. Well, welcome to MythVision Podcast, sir, and thank you for
joining me. Oh, I'm honored to be here. It'll be quite fun. I am going to say this up front,
and then I'll shut up because this is so important you get started. For anyone watching this,
I'm telling you, you're going to want to watch this to the end. This is definitely one of those,
you're going to want to pick up the books, you're going to want to check out the material. I've
already listened to all the audio versions he's had out there on YouTube, and I promise you that's
the case. Russell, if you don't mind, I guess, let everybody know who you are. What is your
research? What is your specialty in this field? Sure. Well, I'm a writer, researcher, independent
scholar, which means I don't teach at a university. I don't have a PhD. I just research on my own. I'm
an autodidact. I'm well published in scholarly journals. I've been writing in the field for 20
years. I'm pretty well respected, and I've got it totally not on credentials, but just on the quality
of my work. So I've got two books already published with major academic publishing houses. You might
have heard of Rutledge Academic Press in New York and London, and that's my current publisher.
I've published articles on the Dead Sea Scrolls on a famous inscription in the Israel Museum that
might be of modern forgery, most recently about the historical basis of the Solomon story in
the Jewish Bible. But mostly, I'm known as a foremost expert on Greek sources used by Old
Testament authors that point to the date, location, and authorship of the books of Moses.
Books of Moses are, of course, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. Who wrote them?
You know, not Moses, obviously, but history tells us that a delegation of Jewish scholars
visited Alexandria, Egypt around 270 BC by royal invitation from a Greek king named Ptolemy
Philadelphus to translate these five books of Moses into Greek. It's the famous Septuagint
translation that some of your viewers will have heard of that was housed in the Great Library
of Alexandria. Well, I have argued that these 70 scholars, these Jewish scholars invited to
Alexandria, were not only the translators, but also the authors of these same books of Moses,
and that they drew on legal and historical research they conducted in the Great Library.
They wrote the original Hebrew text of the Pentateuch or the books of Moses,
and then they translated it into Greek for the same library that they did the research in.
And then they went back to Jerusalem and put together the rest of the
Hebrew Bible, what Christians call the Old Testament. Now, this is a radical theory in two respects.
First, that the biblical authors read and used various Greek authors, such as Homer, Hesiod,
Plato, and others. And number two, that the Bible was written a lot later than most scholars thought,
especially here in America, where we seem to be really behind the times and scholarship.
So my first book, which introduced these theories, was called Barossus and Genesis.
And here's how it came about. I was doing research in the late 1990s in the University of Oregon
library for another project on the historical basis of certain Greek myths. And I ran across a book
with all the collected fragments of an obscure writer named Barossus, who was a priest of Mardek,
one of the major kings and I mean gods of Babylonia, and he wrote a history of Babylon
in Greek around 280 BC, not long after the conquest of Alexander the Great.
So I photocopied the whole book, which was my habit back then. And when I read it, I was struck by how
closely the start of his book resembled the start of Genesis. Now, scholars have known for 100 years
that the first chapters of Genesis drew on a variety of ancient Cuneiform texts, like the Babylonian
creation story, the Sumerian king list that had 10 generations of incredibly long-lived kings
before the flood, the Babylonian flood story taken from the Epic of Gilgamesh and so forth.
But how did the biblical authors obtain all these exotic Cuneiform sources, some of them written
in Acadian and some in the earlier dead language of the Sumerians? Well, as it turns out, and this
was really interesting to me, Barossus translated every one of these specific texts into Greek
for his book on the history of Babylonia. And his translations and paraphrases
sometimes were closer to the biblical versions of the same tale than even the Cuneiform originals.
So I found this stunning and really perplexing that Babylonian priest named Barossus clearly,
he never read the Bible. But was it possible, I asked myself, that the biblical authors read Barossus?
But after all, biblical scholarship at that time was pretty unanimous that the books
that Moses had been written like from 900 BC to 400 or 500 BC, this is centuries before Barossus.
So if the biblical authors drew on Barossus, they would have written
sometime after 280 BC, which just sounded crazy, you know, to me even.
But then I heard about an article that had just come out in 1993 by a Danish scholar named Niels
Peter Lemke called, is the Old Testament a Hellenistic book? And it asks a simple question,
why do biblical scholars insist on dating the biblical texts as early as possible?
Why not look at the latest possible date as the proper starting point? Because that's when you
know that these texts actually exist. We don't know that they existed, you know, 1000 BC, but we
do know that they existed 200 BC because we have, you know, copies or references or something.
So he pointed out that the first real evidence for the Old Testament,
and for the books of Moses, comes from around 270 BC, when the five books of Moses were translated
into Greek for the Great Library of Alexandria in Egypt 50 years after the conquest of Alexander the
Great. Before that time, there are a few historical references of the Jews and none at all to biblical
writing, zero. But after that date, there's an explosion of Bible related writings.
Oh, for instance, there's, you know, you start with a Septuagint, and then you have some fragments
from Tamron from about 250 BC, and the astronomical book of Enoch and Pseudo-Yupilimus and the book
of Watchers and Demetrius of the Chronographer and on and on and on. They're just, they're everywhere,
right after the Septuagint came out. So what's the real evidence that the Bible was older than 280 or
270 BC, other than just naked assumption? That was my question, and I dug a bit deeper, and I found
convincing evidence that not only did Genesis draw on Porosus, who wrote around 280 BC,
but Exodus drew on Menatho, who is an Egyptian priest who wrote a history of Egypt around 285 BC,
and talked about trouble making Egyptians being expelled into nearby Judea.
And I found lots of other similar evidence for other minor Greek authors that show that
books of Moses had to have been written after 273 or 272 BC, the latest of these Greek sources,
and yet before around 270 BC, when they were translated into Greek for the Great Library of
Alexandria. So they were written like in Hebrew at most a year or two before they were translated
into Greek, which was, you know, the evidence was pointing me somewhere. So then I asked myself,
where did the authors of Genesis get all these Greek writings? Well, all these Greek books on
history used by the biblical authors were housed where? In the Great Library of Alexandria,
which had the most complete collection of Greek writings in the entire world, including
Porosus, Menatho, Plato, and all the rest. So the final piece of the puzzle finally dawned on me,
that the biblical authors wrote the books of Moses around 270 BC at Alexandria at the exact
same time and place that these books were translated into Greek as part of the same
literary project. Basically, the books of Moses were authored and published simultaneously in
Hebrew and Greek. So I discovered when, where, and by whom the books of Moses were written.
So now we know who actually wrote the first books of Moses, when and where they were written,
and what the favorite books were on their library bookshelves. It's almost like having a
telescope in the past pointed at the very time when the first biblical writings were created.
No, this is interesting, Russell. Let me close this window real quick, because I keep hearing
cars pass by, hold on. All right, that's better. So this is very interesting to give our audience
something in dummy terms. I like to break it down for you who may not know this.
The Bible by critical scholars by, by people, you know, that you would say are taken serious,
that aren't fundamentalists and have no necessary acts to grind. We'll say, you know, this book
was maybe written 700, you know, anywhere from 900, 700. And of course, some of the books, they will
say, you know, go much later. Daniel would be a late date. They agree. They agree with Russell on
this. And they'll say, Hey, I agree, some of these books are later, but not, you know, the totality
of some of the ancient books that have Babylonian hints or Egyptian ideas that we know go way back
in antiquity. I just wanted to say that what makes you different, I think, and this is important
before we move on to a different idea is your suggesting most, if not all, are were compiled
at this time in written at this time, even if they were using old sources from the Alexandria
and Library. Okay, yes. Now, are any of those sources? I asked this because this is pertinent.
We could find ancient Egyptian sources, we could find ancient canarium or sorry, I mispronounced
the Babylonian cuneiform tablets and stuff. My question is, were there Hebrew or Israelite
writings in any way, shape, or form that you think, and it wasn't just oral? Or do you think
they actually started putting pen to paper in around 272 AD BC? And that was the first time?
Well, mostly that was mostly the first time. There are some older source documents.
For instance, in the Book of Kings, there's the annals of the Kings of Judah and the annals of
the Kings of Israel and the Acts of Solomon. Those are three seemingly authentic source documents
that date back to the actual kingdoms of Judah in Israel. So those are old. Those were before
by 86 BC when Jerusalem fell. And there's, among the prophets, there's one authentic
collection of oracles, and that's the Book of Haggai. And it absolutely resembles Assyrian
oracle collections. I haven't published on it yet, but the format, the two-year timeframe,
everything is, so that's authentic. And that's around, what is it, 516 BC.
But other than that, not a whole lot. And for the Pentateuch, it doesn't seem to draw on any
local native Jewish and Samaritan written sources. And that is interesting. I think
Elephantine is a good place to go in this, in light of the literature and why it's important.
What's so important about Elephantine in this idea? By the way, most people don't even know
what it is, so you might want to tell them. Yes. Well, in Egypt, there was this fortress on the
Nile that was kind of a division between Egypt proper and Ethiopia. It was this island called
Elephantine, and there was a military colony there that guarded the border. It had Jewish troops,
Aramean troops, and a few others. And so this is Egypt, and it's dry, and parchment documents
from between 450 BC and about 400 BC, they survived to the present day. And they provide an amazing
window on Jewish life, stay down to 400 BC. So this colony at Elephantine,
it had its own temple of Yahweh. So there wasn't just one temple at Jerusalem. There was this
other temple at Elephantine, and they were polytheistic. There's no reference to any biblical
writings in all those documents. There's correspondence between the priests at Elephantine,
who were not from the house of Aaron, by the way. They were just, who were they? Who knows?
But they were in correspondence with the temple at Jerusalem and the high priest and his brothers,
and the religious authorities in Samaria. Because there was some kind of a problem,
their temple got burned down, and they wanted permission to build a new temple.
And, well, evidently, the people at Jerusalem said, sure, go ahead, go for it. Even though
Deuteronomy says you can only have one temple, that's it. But there's no references in all of
the writings of Elephantine to Moses or Abraham or David or any of the big names from the Bible.
I'm not only as biblical characters, but they aren't used as personal. And they have a Sabbath,
except that they work on the Sabbath. I mean, they have the seventh day of the week,
but there's this one letter where this guy says, you're going to pick up this load of vegetables
that we're sending by boat this Saturday, and if you don't, I'm going to kill you.
So they were not very observant in terms of the Sabbath. No, they didn't have a religious Sabbath.
They had a Passover, but it was purely agricultural. It wasn't the celebration of Moses and the Exodus.
So anyway, for decades, people have wondered, well, how can you have
the Pentateuch in the books of Moses, and yet there's these heterodox Jews out there worshiping
harem, Bethel, and a bunch of other gods, and Sabbath breakers, and how come they're in this
happy relationship with Jerusalem? It was blowing their minds. Well, the reason is there,
there was no Bible back then. It was the books of Moses hadn't been written. There's
none of the biblical tradition. It was just before that. So no, there was no Bible in the
Persian period. It just didn't exist, and that's the economical explanation. And there's finally
been a book or two that has acknowledged that fully. I said this, you know, elephantine is not an
anomaly. It's not a problem. It's just the way it was back then. They didn't have biblical.
And that was, you know, that was about 100 years before the time we're talking about.
The Septuagint and the, when I say the books of Moses were written, when all of a sudden, boom,
you've got all these biblical writings that just come out of nowhere, and that's the new culture.
Russell, this is, this is fascinating information, by the way, because I've never heard anyone explain
this like this. In fact, I never heard of elephantine prior to you, which was kind of interesting. It's
like, hold on, I knew about Samaria and Mount Garazim. I didn't know there was a whole other
thing going on. And you've said on previous shows, which I definitely need to read your material.
This was like, I had to get you on an introductory show for our audience, and let them also pick up
your material. It's very important that, that I consume that. But you mentioned something that
just is very like, oof. So if you hold sacred the Old Testament, this is probably something you're
going to reject immediately due to bias or just something you can't accept, that northern and
southern Israel, or if I can use the term Judah and the house of Israel, Samaria, being the capital,
if you will, they were never really part of the same one unified group, just like elephantine
was never Judea. They were never the same group. They may shared things in common like Yahweh.
They, you know, I could pick up a God Murdoch or Baal. Okay. And we have our own tradition down
here completely different possibly than the one that's in Judea, the one that's in Samaria.
And so you say they're not the same people. In fact, they were separate traditions completely
and never were a 12 tribe community. Oh, they weren't. There's, you know, there's Assyrian
inscriptions. There's Moabite inscriptions. We've got information back there. And there's no
reference to 12 tribes of Israel or even 10 tribes of Israel. There's, they know about Judah,
which was that southern small kingdom. Naftali maybe is a little region up in Galilee.
There was a tribe of Gan, Gad, but that was Moabite. It wasn't Israelite. It was,
the Moabite inscription says, you know, the people of Gad have been Moabite since forever.
So these tribes don't didn't exist. I mean, they're illustrious. And my latest book
that just came out, I don't know, three years ago, it has a whole section on the 12 tribes,
because 12 tribes were common. Also 10 tribes, which that's how the biblical king lists either,
I mean, tribalists, they either have 10 tribes sometimes, sometimes they have 12 tribes. The
names of the tribes are all different, and they're in different order. But the Greeks very commonly
they divided up their nations into usually 12 tribes so that they could rotate duties from
month to month to month. Athens had, well, for a while they had a 10 tribe system. But then
then around, I don't know, 325 BC, they added a couple tribes. So now they had 12 tribes at the
same time as these books that Moses were written. Plato said 12 tribes, that's the perfect system.
You know, you should have 12 tribes. He wrote about that in Plato's Laws, which had this utopian
form of government and constitution that said, you know, he was advocating. And he, so 12 tribes,
that's a Greek idea. And there were lots of little colonies and places that had 6 tribes or 12
tribes, nowhere in the ancient Near East. It's something they picked up from the Greeks.
Okay, so I think this is a good question to ask. The last guy who interviewed you, Dagger Squad.
He says, Dagger, you know, and he has his accent and he's talking about the Dagger.
Yeah, that's another Dagger. Russell, if you could give us some examples of parallels,
if you have any off the top of your head, that just something interesting that you saw,
just like the 12 tribe kind of idea, that gives more of like a Hellenistic spin that typical
scholars don't run there for that information, if that makes sense. So where there's someone who
might say that looks Persian, there's no way there'd be Hellenistic thought in this Persian text,
or that's Babylonian, like we talked about your first book. You know, that wouldn't be Hellenistic,
that's so old. And you mentioned Genesis as an example that there's Hellenistic. And in fact,
that the Genesis one is like almost identical to something Plato put out, if I'm not mistaken.
Yes, that's true. And I just finished, I mean, I'm talking two days ago, I finished the final draft
of my book on Plato's Tamaeus and the biblical creation accounts. Yeah, he had a whole book,
which was one of the most popular books in the ancient Greek and Roman world,
called Tamaeus, about his theories on the origin of the universe, cosmology or cosmogony.
He said there was, he said that there was only one God, Derek.
There was one God at the start of creation. I mean, he's the demiurge, the craftsman,
the creator from this eternal realm of being who he decided he wanted to create a perfect image of
himself, namely the universe as a living being, and he he fashioned it. And anyways, the account
in Tamaeus echoes so much in the Genesis one account, and also Genesis two and three, because
Plato didn't just talk about this universal eternal monotheistic God, which the Jews got
monotheism from Plato. This seems very clear, Greek idea. It's not Persian. It's, yeah, the
Greeks invented monotheism. It was the Greek scientists, the Greek natural philosophers who
posited that there was a divine intelligence who started this whole thing. And so they had this
monotheistic idea. Some of them got executed because for their atheism, because they didn't
believe in all the little tiny gods running around the Greek world. So if you were a monotheist,
they considered that atheism. They passed a law, I guess, and then you could be executed. Right.
That's what gets Socrates. I thought that I have to cut in just a point. I thought that
an ancient Egyptian Barrow was, you know, Akhenaten, I thought was the original, but
or at least, no, he did. He did promote the cult of Aton, I think.
It was a little blip after he died or was assassinated or whatever happened to him.
That was over. So, yeah, that was a little idiosyncratic blurb, but it was not this
philosophical, eternal, cosmic monotheistic God that some of the Greeks, including Plato,
came up with. But now Plato also did something else interesting, because he didn't want to get
executed for for being an atheist because he only believed in one God. So he said, well, yeah,
okay, so there's this craftsman who created the universe. But then he had a bunch of sons and
daughters, the Greek gods, and they're running around on earth or wherever they're going. And
so, yeah, there were sons of God running around. And that's exactly what you see in early Genesis.
So I have to mention, and I'm sorry, I have to say this for others who are watching my audience,
there are different ideas floating around that people don't, they don't interpret sons of God
the same way you might be describing it. And what I think Russell's saying here for everybody,
and correct me if I'm wrong, is that these sons of God are deities. Okay, these are the sons of
God that are under the pan, they're like the pantheon of deities where the most supreme according
to the Bible would have Yahweh or the God of Israel. That's the biblical perspective, right?
They put him chief above all. However, these other gods, if I'm not mistaken, in the ancient world
would call were called Damions or like pretty much demons, if you will, is what they were,
sons of God, so to speak, that have powers over particular areas and, and they're regional in
some way. Yeah, the Greeks, they had different gods over different countries. And Plato was
unique because he said they all got along. They didn't have wars together, like Homer said,
you know, a Zeus battled against, you know, Hera and this and that, you know, and there were all
sorts of cosmic battles and Greek literature. Plato wanted to censor all of that. He wanted all
the gods to get along. But in the biblical, in the Bible, you have the apparently 70 sons of God,
just like in the Baal epic of ancient Canaanites. Baal had 70 sons in his divine council. Well,
Psalms and Deuteronomy in different places, they have a divine council too. And in Deuteronomy,
they say that Yahweh was one of these lesser gods who was over Israel and that every one
of the gods was over a different nation. And there were, there are 70 nations in the
people of nations in Genesis 10. So, you know, you've got, you've got 70 gods running around
and Yahweh is one of them. He was not the supreme God. He, he got promoted later. But no, he was
one of those little terrestrial gods wandering around. He ruled, he ruled the Garden of Eden,
sure. And like Zeus, he was, Zeus was a, he was not the eternal monotheistic God. He was one of
the lesser gods, but he was kind of in charge of the other gods. And the Bible does say that
Yahweh was kind of, kind of in charge. But, except he hasn't slept with that woman. Well,
if you count Mary's estimate, it's kind of a weird impregnation type spirit thing, but I don't know,
you know. Yeah, but except here's this, Derek in Genesis, chapter six, you have the sons of God
cohabiting with these beautiful daughters of men. And they, they married them and they had children,
the giants. And they had lots of gods running around having marriages just like Greek gods.
And just like Plato had in his sequel to Tamea, which was called Cridius, which had the story of
Atlantis. Atlantis was ruled by Poseidon. Well, actually, Poseidon kind of populated Atlantis,
because he married this local girl that he found particularly active and he had 10 sons and they
were the lords of Atlantis and so on and so forth. So yeah, the Greeks, they had these gods running
around and, and having all sorts of wild orgies, I guess, with whoever they could get away with,
and have an offspring that were these heroic people, you know, Hercules and all these other
semi-divine humans. And all of that's in the Bible too.
I have to ask you a question. I was listening to a podcast recently and this is very interesting
because you didn't talk about any of this on any other show. So I'm glad that we are able to talk
about this. This is important. I was listening to Christine Hayes, which she's done a great job,
you know, in so many ways. I learned so much from her, from divine law to understanding,
you know, who the Gentiles, who the Goyim, what are the others of the nations, etc.
And there was another professor. I can't remember her name, but her and Christine seemed to collab
often in scholarship on these things. And she was talking about how the gods run in the blood.
She was explaining how not only are they local, if you will, a god runs a territory in a land,
but also you listen to the Greeks and she actually said this, and I want to, I think you're going
to take a different stance, I suspect, than what she says. And this is, I've never heard expressed
anywhere yet, but they compare the Greeks and the Greeks say I'm a descendant of, right, Zeus, or
whoever it may be, these, you know, people are descendant of their god. Israel is the first
born sons of Yahweh. They seem to be direct, if you will, it seems like in a strange way, descendants
of their god. However, these scholars said that the people of Israel are a little distinct and
different in how they are descended of Yahweh. If you take what you're saying to the bank,
it would seem and appear to me the same way like you just mentioned Poseidon or Zeus may
populate a people and therefore now you have the generations that come from their divine god.
Did Yahweh maybe play a role similar to these other Greek gods?
That's conceivable and, you know, archaeology has found a couple
inscriptions that talk about Yahweh and his Asherah, his wife, his consort. So back in the
actual historical days of the kingdom of Judah and Samaria, yeah, he had a wife or a consort and
probably had sons and daughters. All of them did back in ancient Canaan.
Now outside the Bible, you have the books of Enoch and Jubilee and things like that,
and they seem to indicate that the righteous line that led down to Noah, there were lots of
intermarriages between the watchers and humans. Now in the Enoch literature, the watchers were
angels, but really they go back to the sons of God in Genesis 6. So it's kind of
tradition that didn't quite make it into the Bible, but made it into some, the pseudepigrapha
and stuff that really did suggest that Noah and that whole line were descended from intermarriages
with the gods. Yahweh, I don't think there's a specific tradition to that effect, but
generally speaking, yeah, these gods, they had wives and children and
clearly Yahweh in the Garden of Eden, he was not the only god running around, and Adam and Eve
were not the only people running around. Cain murders Abel and he has to wander off and he's
afraid all these other people living all over the earth are going to kill me. And he goes off and he
he marries somebody, you know, it wasn't his sister. So there were lots of peoples and gods
and their kingdoms all over the earth. That's implicit in early Genesis, but it's really explicit
in the Greek traditions and in Plato as well. So the Bible is a lot weirder and less
monotheistic than people would like to imagine. Yeah, I agree. I think they obviously had their
gods supreme in the narrative. Of course, Yahweh ends up being their primary, if you will. But
yeah, I totally agree. And that comes to the dating, which is important in some of the ideas my
friends and I have wrestled with, like Stephen Nelson and stuff were kind of like,
there's an evolution, it seems, of thought, which, you know, if one's going to compile,
I don't know if this is the right question to ask right now in such an introductory show, but
the evolution of God as well as the evolution of someone like Satan, you know, he takes on a
different role later in the narrative, it seems he changes, would one, you know, they're sitting
in one spot and everybody's writing this together. Why does the character evolve and change? Do you
see what I'm saying? Yes, I sure do. And I addressed that thoroughly in my last chapter of my
current book. So in Genesis, the book of Genesis is very philosophical. You have Plato's Tamaeus,
his creation account that really influences chapters one through three,
where Yahweh is clearly one of these local gods walking around and reclining in the garden,
and he doesn't know what's going on. He has to ask questions like any other God down there.
You know, later he comes, he has, you know, a veal dinner with Abraham and Sarah, you know,
he and his angel friends, they march across and they get invited into the tent. So anyway,
he's just a little run around God. Okay, where was I going on this? So Genesis is philosophical
in the sense that in the whole book of Genesis, all these gods get along. And really the nations
pretty much get along too. You don't have all these gods warring together. That starts with
the book of Exodus. Exodus through Joshua. God is warring against the Egyptian gods. God is
warring against Kimosh, the god of Moab. He's, he doesn't like any other gods. He's the only god.
You're going to worship him. There's no local governor gods. He has total authority, you know,
and, and the one rule for Israelites is you have to worship me and only me, anyone else.
You get executed. Everybody goes into captivity. So there was a, Genesis was very accommodating,
you know, polytheism was okay. But there was another group who were not these philosophers.
And because there were a lot of people writing in Alexandria and this other faction,
they were pro Yahweh. They were highly nationalistic. And they had this thing where Yahweh was the
supreme God at war with all the other gods. Later, between the Old Testament and New Testament,
that really morphed into God versus Satan. There were wars going on up in heaven. And
Plato said the whole divine realm was good. Everything divine is good. All the gods are good.
They're not jealous. He says repeatedly, the gods are not jealous. They haven't. And then
the 10th commandment says, because I am a jealous God, you know, different vision,
different group of authors. And those are the guys who actually, they won out in the,
and the philosophers get kicked to the curb. And then you get Satan and good gods versus bad gods
and all the rest of that whole. That makes perfect sense to why Paul, in my opinion, would go to
people who have different gods. And there's Yahweh again, his God, competing to try and once again
have them turn away from their gods, which I guess the scholars that I was mentioning earlier,
and I got to get them on the show at some point, too, they're kind of doing exactly what you said.
Gods are competing at this point. It used to be, look, you know, someone who was a God fear can
come worship Yahweh and go back and worship, you know, whoever their gods were and everything was
cool. Paul's running with this tradition that you're talking about here. And he's saying,
you got to let these gods go. And don't worry, our gods not only going to protect you from
judgment from your God, he's going to defeat your God. So yeah, this is an interesting theme.
Yeah. Yeah, holy war. You know, God and his people against everybody else and their gods and
genocide and all the rest, not a not a good philosophical view of the world. So
in my next book, Plato and the creation of the Hebrew Bible that I kind of alluded to,
you know, most of the book is dealing with the laws of Moses and how a lot of them came
right out of Plato or else out of Athenian law. Plato wrote a book called called laws, Plato's
Laws, and he came up with this ideal constitution and how to create a colony and how to make it
perfect so it would last through time forever. And he said, okay, here's the key, according to Plato,
you're going to have a country that's going to last forever. What you got to do and we'll never
overthrow this constitution and laws, what you got to do is you got to make the people believe
that the gods wrote their laws back in ancient time, that they're divine, and that they've never
changed. And then people are going to say, our fathers, we are so our forefather, we're so proud
of them. And God wrote these laws, and we're never going to change them. We're going to defend this
land to our last breath. And we're going to be loyal because this is a this is a theocracy here.
God is ruling our country through the laws, the divine laws, and also Plato invented this system
where the government would be run by priests and theologians. So the Jews and Samaritans in
270 BC, they took over all of that. They took over the idea of these ancient divine laws that
Moses got Mount Sinai. And they invented a theocracy ruled by a high priest in Sanhedrin. It all comes
right out of Plato's laws. And he also said what you also have to do, because people are going to
know, hey, you know, we just heard about these ancient divine laws two weeks ago. What's with
that? We said, here's what you're going to do. You have to create a national literature. It has to
be only approved texts that have to be in line with the government's theory of the past. And
everything else gets censored. And people only read these divine sacred books. And that's it.
You keep out outside information. You use that in all the schools. And in one generation,
the memory of the past will disappear. And all the younger generation will believe all this stuff.
So there you have the Hebrew Bible, which there's there's no such thing as a national
literature of approved texts in the Greek world, and the ancient Near East, anywhere except in
Plato's laws. That's where the idea of the Bible came from. And that's how we got these religions
based on books. That concept you just brought reminds me of the Exodus narrative. It reminds
me in which people weren't allowed to enter to the Promised Land if they were a previous generation,
because they had bent the knee to the golden calf or something. That that is interesting,
because that generation wasn't, I guess they were there to witness, you know, it's almost like we
got to go to the next generation before we could take them into the land flowing with milk and
honey. And if that did come from Plato, that'd be interesting. I don't know, because that's
something I think that's going to be interesting when I read your book. You press hard on looking
for Hellenistic tendencies. And do you do so in many places? Most people don't, where most scholars
will say this is old, or this comes from, you know, Persian or, you know, like you do with Genesis.
Are there other areas? Sure. I mean, systematically, here's how it works from a system theory.
Scholarship has passed down their knowledge from generation to generation from zero B.C. or A.D.
clear down to the 20th century. It's one generation educating the next one. And so you revere your
teachers and you accept most of what you've been taught. So throughout most of this period,
the biblical texts have been dated, what you would call, from a maximalist perspective.
They don't end up as old as possible in line with what they claim, you know, unless it unless
proven otherwise. Like Isaiah wrote the book of Isaiah. Well, there's some anachronisms.
Well, there's some anachronisms. Those were added a little bit later. And, you know, so
biblical scholars until the late 20th century, they dated all this stuff to, you know, the time
of Solomon or the kingdom, sort of Babylonian or Persian era, just as early as they could get away
with. And so the Greek period, the Hellenistic period after Alexander the Great conquered the east,
that was invisible to them. It wasn't even on their horizon of possibility. And so
they didn't compare any of Greek literature to the biblical writings. Why would they? Because
the Jews didn't know about Greek writings until after the whole Old Testament was written
and their opinion wasn't even in the perspective. So one of the key things that I do is I look at
my own assumptions, and I look at scholarly assumptions, and I identify them. And I try and
work without them, I toss them away. So so I looked at all of Greek literature, clear down to 270 BC
as possible sources of influence from the Bible, because we don't know that the Bible was older
than that, like the maximal must believe. And so so yeah, I see Greek influences all over the place.
Here's one great example. The Exodus. Well, not even the Exodus, but the patriarch stories plus
the Exodus. It's just a typical, very typical Greek foundation stories. They had foundation
stories for their nations and colonies all over the place. It was their most popular genre of
literature. A lot of times, there'd be this ancestral generation, like Hercules or the
Argonauts or whatever. And a God would say, Hey, you and your descendants are going to inherit
this land. You're going to live in this. This is the promised land. I'm promising it to you.
Here's a clod of earth that I think Poseidon gave to baddest who passed up from generation to
generation. And eventually, his descendants sailed in their ships from Sparta over to
North Africa and founded that kingdom of Cyrene, that their ancestors had been promised by the
God. So there's two phases. There's promises to the ancestors, just like Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
all of those. And then there's the actual generation that colonizes the land. And these
foundation stories, you have God surprises this guy and says, you're going to lead my people to
the promised land and establish a country. And then this person like Moses or, you know, or all
these other guys who say, What? Who? Me? No. Yes, you must. And then they would take their colony,
they lead it out as an army, just like the army that comes out of Exodus. The people who died in
the wilderness are always described as an army. And incidentally, they had cattle and women and
children, but they were an army on the move. And sometimes it would take a generation to get there
through all these prevails and trials. Sometimes they'd want to go home because it's hard. But
eventually they'd get there to either acquire or more often conquer the land. But when they get there,
the foundation leader, at that point, he would say, All right, we're about to have an action.
So I'm going to write a constitution. I'm going to write laws. I'm going to give a big speech where
I tell everybody what their laws are. We're going to write it on, you know, on inscription on stone.
I'm going to have my geometers go and they're going to get allotments for all the colonists.
They're going to divide up the land. They're going to divide it into tribes or territories.
And then every colonist is going to have their piece of land and they're going to have it from
all of this stuff, which this is standard Greek stuff. And it's also the plot line from
like Genesis 12 through the book of Joshua. And it's, it's a Greek foundation story. It's not
anywhere else. And there's no way that the people, the people who wrote the Bible could have heard
about that until Alexander conquered the east and brought all this Greek wisdom and tradition
with them. I was just thinking about Alexander when he led his soldiers through mountainous
regions, through, um, through desert regions, and even his soldiers, you know, they were willing to
follow him, but they wanted to go home. So I don't know if that has any role, but I do think it's
interesting. I want to look at these evidences that you're bringing. Yeah, Plato and the creation of
the Hebrew Bible, I think it's chapter five, maybe, that talks all about foundation stories.
And, um, and what's really interesting is that the Greeks, uh, constitutions and laws were really
essential to them because they govern themselves. They were democracies. They wrote their own
constitution. Uh, they abided by their own laws. They had, uh, their own army and, uh,
they were involved. They voted. They held office. Um, so this was critical to them.
Now, there was no such thing as a constitution in the whole ancient Near East. You don't see it
from, you know, 4,000 BC down to Alexander's conquest. Not one example, uh, but the books of Moses
has lots of constitutional content and they could only have learned that from the Greeks.
They could have only learned it after Alexander conquered. Wow. That's actually really intense.
I mean, I'm take, I got to take your word on this because I haven't actually,
I'm not as well read at all. And I am going to start to read a lot of this material and
check out your book and look at your sources because I hear you said every sentence you wrote,
you had to put a source down. Yeah, absolutely. I'm good. At least 2,000 footnotes or citations.
Yeah. I want to bring up some fun stuff. Uh, if you don't mind, take a break from the heavy stuff
because what you said about Plato is extremely important and understanding why it would be a,
why they concreted this national idea and took it and went as far back into antiquity and
they really did do a good job of developing something like that. I mean, it's stuck with
us today, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's well written. Exactly as Plato predicted. And he was right about
that. I mean, yeah, we'll have a forever, Derek. Sorry. There's nothing I can do. I'm working on
trying to chip away at this thing, you know, like, Hey, stop, let's go this way. But, uh,
yeah, so, so something fun. Um, you mentioned in a previous podcast and I asked for parallels
earlier, if you could think of something fun, we, I heard you mentioned with King David, right?
King David, um, cuts off the giant's head, turns and shows it to the enemy and the whole nation's
terrified and the Philistine run with their leg, their tails between their legs and, you know,
they're not messing with this guy. And it was one for one, you know, it was just let's, let's do it.
And if I fight you and win the whole nation, um, there's a parallel to a Greek myth about this
and there's something significant with the battle there that you mentioned in a previous show. You
didn't go into too much detail. Can we start with something like that and you give details on that
and then maybe give other examples of stories that must have come from the Hellenistic period or
must have come from the Greeks that could not have come prior. Um, sure. Yeah. Well, let's talk
about David and Goliath. Um, David was a little, he was a slinger that, you know, the, the Greek armies,
they had a front row of people who were too poor to afford a shield and a sword and stuff.
So they go out there and they'd sling rocks or, you know, they were the lowest on the totem pole
or whatever in the Greek army. But Goliath, on the other hand, he had a giant spear very much like
the Sarissa, which is a Greek spear. And he had the helmet and he had the breastplate and he even
had someone to hold a shield for him. All of this is standard features of the Greek, what they call
the Hoplite armies. It's just standard military dress from, I don't know, 400, 500 BC, 400, 300.
It's a Greek story. Now, the story itself, the battle between champions, one on each side,
that motif appears several times in Homer's Iliad. And a lot of people have said, yeah,
this Goliath story, it really sounds like the Iliad. But like I said, like I mentioned,
the details of the battle dress are, are later than Homer's Iliad, 700 BC. This is late. But
that's a very Greek story. And everybody knew their Homer. And this was,
yeah, this was a great little literary trope that they used. Now, David himself,
he was, he was a, he was a young lad. What do we know about him? He was bronze. He,
you know, bronze skin, very good to look at. He played, played the lyre, was it, lute or lyre? He
was very musical. He danced in the parades. You know, after a battle was won, he danced in
just his loincloth. And Michelle, his, his perspective wife, found that very offensive.
All of that is typical of a Greek soldier in training. They had what they called the
effibate, which is military school, all Greek children. When I think they hit,
when they hit 18, maybe 16, I'm fuzzy on that. They would go into the secondary school as they'd
have gymnastics. They would have music, which is kind of unusual for a soldier, except in the
Greek world where that was standard, they, they would learn how to dance because dance was very
important because troops had to move in unison. So especially in parades and stuff, they would,
they would incorporate dance in, into their, so all of this. And plus, the, his physique is the
Greek ideal physique for a young man. The artistic, as art, art, art historians can tell you that.
So here, here you have David, who is supposedly the first king of, you know, Judah and Israel.
He's, why, why is he like someone in the ROTC? You know, why, why is he in every way acting like
a young soldier in training? That is very, very Greek. You couldn't even fit the armor. I mean,
yeah, yeah, they played, they did that play, they played on that pretty well. Yeah. So let's see.
I want to ask me another question, but I'll try and think of another good example. Think of another
good story in time. No rush. I wanted to go to something this is probably going to screw you up.
That's just how I am when I host. It's always a new topic. You mentioned something about Jeremiah.
Jeremiah is an interesting prophet and maybe you want to comment on that. How does that have any,
what's that matter to you? What makes you different in your perspective on Jeremiah
than what you hear most people discuss on him? Well, gosh, almost all students of the prophets
think that Jeremiah actually lived, that he was, you know, he was around at the fall of Jerusalem,
that Jeremiah was, the book of Jeremiah was either written by him or written down by his
scribe or, you know, old and authentic, all of this stuff. Well, he was, he's a literary figure.
He is, he conforms to a literary pattern in the Old Testament called a Deuteronomistic prophet.
And here's what happened to these poor Deuteronomistic prophets. They would speak the truth,
they'd tell their prophecy to a king or whatever. The false prophets would all be mad at them. The
king would punish them. They were in danger of their lives. They weren't heard. And it always turned
out badly. So, and they were, these Deuteronomist prophets, they were anti-establishment. Well,
prophecy in that time, prophets in, in Assyria, Babylonia, and even in Judea,
based on the evidence of the book of Haggai, they were associated with the temple. They were like
bureaucrats. You'd go to the temple, you'd ask a question, the prophet would say,
the God says, doesn't such God says, yes, rebuild the temple and bring lots of donations.
So, they were, they weren't anti-establishment. They didn't criticize the kings, none of that
stuff. That is, and scholars don't know really where that came from. Well, you know, I do,
because that's all over Greek literature. You look in the plays of Euripides and
Escalus and all, you have, what is the name, Tamellicus. But anyway, there's, there's these kings,
and they'd have to go up to King Creeon and say, God disapproves of what you're doing,
and you're going to have lots of problems. And King Creeon would get mad at them and maybe throw
them in jail, and they'd be in fear of their lives. And all of that stuff was just happening
over and over and over again in these Greek plays. And also, the figure of Socrates,
he was a prophet. He was a martyr. He was the first martyr. He was a righteous man who
was innocent and died for it. But he was also a prophet. He had what he called a daemon,
a genius, a little spirit, a voice that talked to him inside his head. He might have been
schizophrenic, it's quite possible. But at any rate, he had this voice that told him what to do.
And he said it came from Apollo, but the normal Athenians, they weren't having it. They
didn't like him because he criticized everybody. He criticized everybody that he met. He asked
them embarrassing questions and humiliated them in public. So he had lots of people who were mad at
him. And he said, I have to. I'm on the mission from God. And I know you're mad at me, but I get
to save the city of Athens. So he stuck it out. He did his deed. He got arrested for atheism,
and not only for atheism, but for introducing new God. It's a little contradiction. But he said he
had this little voice, this daemon, this genius. Daemon goes into daemon, like you mentioned,
a little spirit, but a good one. And they said, that's a new God. We don't allow that sort of
stuff. And so he had to drink hemlock and died. And yeah, he had the opportunity to flee, but he
said, I'm a good Athenian. I'm not going to leave my nation under any circumstances. I'll drink it.
From what I understand, when they send people off like that, what they're actually saying is go
worship other gods a lot of times too. When you get excommunicated from the land, because your
God a lot of times is very, most of the time, from what I understand is your God is the God of that
land. So by saying you need to leave the land, is you need to get away from our God, you're
going to have to go to a different God. And it was kind of a disrespect thing as well on a whole
different level than what we would understand today. Yeah, the whole exile thing. Yeah. The only
good thing about it is a lot of the Greeks in different nations, they kind of worship the same
Greek God. So it wasn't as severe as in the ancient Near East, where Yahweh was only in Samaria and
Judah, that was it. But yeah, they over there, if you if you went into voluntary self exile,
you could escape the death set, they'd let you do that. They'd let you do that as late as between
the first speech of the trial and the second speech of the trial. So if it was going bad
against you, you could see dad, well, they'd let you do it. Interesting system. Right.
But yes, so, so Jeremiah, he was one of those persecuted prophets too. And a lot of his description
resembles some of the earlier Greek prophets in in Greek tragedies. But a lot of it also
resembles Socrates. So you have influence, specifically from Plato, from Plato's portrait
of Socrates, who was the hero in most of Plato's writings. So my unique take on Jeremiah is
it was very late. It has Greek influences. Now it was written in the Hellenistic period.
You do something with with Jeremiah and Deuteronomy, that I thought was interesting.
Deuteronomy is late, according to you. And that's very different than what a lot of people will
suggest. They do, of course, say it comes a little later, they just don't say it comes as late as you
would suspect. And I guess something that's pertinent to me at this moment, I carry conversation with
very good friends of mine. We don't see eye to eye on a lot of things. But that's what makes us such
a friend, I think. Yeah, Deuteronomy 30. Oh, go ahead, please, please.
Well, listen, I just want to say you can learn the most from people that you disagree with.
That's what I found. I always seek out opinions from people that I don't fully agree with,
because I figure maybe it's because they know something I don't know. You know,
you pick their brains, you might learn something, you might learn that they're full of it, or you
might learn an extra fact that makes you a little wiser. But go ahead. Yeah, no, I've learned a lot
from these people and other people, of course, and bringing people on the show that I don't know
and may not agree with. I learned something, though, from each person. And they connect
Deuteronomy 32 to the New Testament in Israel's last days. But there are people out there that
suggest that Israel's last days concept of Deuteronomy 32 may take a role in the narrative
of the Hebrew Scriptures. So, you know how the New Testament likes to reuse stuff that seems to
imply its first use is in the Old Testament? For example, you should call him Emmanuel,
God with us. This narrative is about a person, then Jesus harps on this, or the New Testament
authors, harp on this thing that already had its context utilized in a time in the Old Testament,
or during the Hebrew Scripture time. Now, in Deuteronomy 32, it talks about Israel's last days.
Do you have an opinion on Israel's last days? Because it appears the New Testament is reusing
this, but there's the idea where we talked about earlier how the northern and southern tribes,
you have the lost tribes, the ten northern, and then Judea and Benjamin in the southern tribes.
And of course, some of the northern goes down into the southern according to this, and it doubles in
size. And anyway, there's this idea that, well, God divorces Samaria, or if you will, the northern
tribes, and keeps his marriage to the southern because they're the, which tells you the writing
from a, the Old Testament's writing from a Judean perspective. But do you have any
opinion on the Deuteronomy 32 Israel's last days in the context of the Hebrew Scriptures?
Well, let me talk to you about this whole Samaria versus Judah thing.
Please. You're right. Kings, most of the prophets, it's all written from the perspective of
Judah and Jerusalem. The Pentateuch, the books of Moses, not so much. Why did they even have
12 tribes? Most of that stuff in the Pentateuch comes from the Samarians or rather Samaritans.
Judah plays a very minor role. And in the book of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy mentions Mount Garazim,
which we know that was the location of the Samaritan temple mentions Mount Ebol and what was
the other one anyway, these two Mount that those were holy sites for the Samaritans
that continues on into John. So the the implication appears to be that the place where God was going
to place his name, that was Mount Garazim. It wasn't Jerusalem. So you have the five books of Moses.
You're going to be in trouble now. You know that, right? Oh, sure. I'm always in trouble.
I'm sorry. So when they went to Alexandria, this delegation of 70 scholars, that's where
the name Septuagint comes from is the Greek word for 70. And the tradition was that the Jews and
Samaritans sent 70 actually 72 elders to Alexandria to translate the books of Moses into Greek.
Six from each one of the 12 tribes, which kind of interesting because 10 of the tribes
are supposed to be lost at that point and yet to hear they are in this story. So
so the the Samaritans and Judeans, they were all together at Alexandria collaborating on
books of Moses. We know that not only from that tradition, but the Samaritans,
they accepted the five books of Moses. They didn't accept any of the rest of the Jewish Bible.
The Jews, they had the books of Moses and everything after that. Well, here's how that happened.
Originally, they were all friends for however long they were at Alexandria together collaborating.
And in the prophecies of Deuteronomy and Leviticus, they were all supposed to if they disobeyed gods
someday, some future generation, they would all go into exile, gathered among them. Then they would
repent and they would all come back to the land and God would, you know, bring them back in his arms
or whatever went for. And you know, it'd be great again. They'd be a restored
original 12 tribes of Israel. So you get some of that in the book of Jeremiah, by the way,
because parts of Jeremiah says, yeah, Israel and Judea, they'll all come back. And
you know, they all went into exile, but they'll all come back and they'll be under God again.
And in other parts, like, yeah, no, the Jews will come back, not so much Samaria. And
really starting in the books of Samuel onward, it's all pro-Judea, pro-Jerusalem.
You always temple in Jerusalem. The Davidic kingdom. And Samaria was bad, evil,
bail worshipers, bad guys. God punishes them. Every king of theirs was wicked because of their
high places. All the early kings of Judah had high places, but they were good. That's okay.
They got rid of some of them. So anyway, so it's this very, so you have the books of Moses
written by everybody at Alexandria, and they go home to Jerusalem. And the Samaritans get kicked
to the curb. And the people from Jerusalem, they keep writing and writing and writing this whole
national literature like Plato wanted. But it's all Jerusalem and Judah. And all of a sudden,
the Samaritans have disappeared. And that's where you get the 10 tribes, the 10 lost tribes.
They weren't lost until the Jews got mad at them in the Hellenistic era. Because the Jews wanted
a monopoly on Yahweh worship. They didn't want the temple at Mount Gerasim. And so they started
promoting this thing where the Samaritans, the Northern tribes, they went away and they never
came back. So it's safe to say that they weren't necessarily lost because of the Assyrian captivity.
And even though there may have been people there, Samaritans that were dispersed, there was a
noticeable group of people that were probably still remaining. Or do you think that that's
somewhat fictional, the whole Assyrian... Yeah, where they take everybody and deport everybody
away. The Assyrians, they would only take the ruling class and send them into exile.
Ordinary people, they wanted them to stay there because they had to have somebody work the farms
and produce the income. It's just a ruling class to get deported and replaced with a new ruling class
from somewhere else in the kingdom. A lot of Babylonians came into Samaria and they became
the new ruling class. The regular people, regular Yahweh worshiping country people,
they were there and there's archaeological continuity, same people. They never went into exile.
There was more of a destruction layer in Judea, but still though there was continuity there too.
This total exile thing, that's a fiction and everybody recognizes that.
The same way Exodus from Egypt, in the manner it's described, is so over-exaggerated. If there was
anything like that, it's so exaggerated. There's nothing like that as described.
What do you take on Deuteronomy 32? Do you have a take on it? The whole idea of the end of
Israel's apostate Israel and stop following my ways. Do you think it plays a role during
some time in Jeremiah and in the writing of this, is trying to hint at something with Israel as in
the northern tribes? Is it from a Judea perspective or are you suggesting, what do you think is going
on with Deuteronomy 32 if you don't mind? Gosh, I've been looking around for my Bible.
Some reason I haven't misplaced. I actually do have a Bible because I am a historian,
so I have need for it on occasion. I've got mine back here behind the screen screen if
I need to grab it, but it's King James. Me too, yeah. I was given to me back in 1972,
I didn't know, and I never wanted to spend money on a new one. They had great covers,
very sturdy. Anyway, the prophecy in Deuteronomy, that was aimed at all 12 tribes.
First, the northern kingdom fell and allegedly they were all deported, and then later Jerusalem fell
and allegedly they were all deported. It was supposed to be a phase for both Israel and Judah,
I mean for the 12 tribes of Israel, because that was the Mosaic nation,
and they were all supposed to come back to the land. So there was no end of Israel per se.
Yeah, the 10 lost tribes of Israel, that's certainly not in the Moses,
but it kind of gets perpetrated starting in 2 Kings 17, where Israel gets deported and
apparently is never replaced, except for one priest who comes back to tell the Babylonians
about Yahweh worship. Well, that's funny, because the Babylonian Abraham,
this is a good topic, you know, rabbit-trelling a little, but why would you have a guy from Babylon,
supposedly, or of Chaldees or whatever? Yeah. What's going on here, Russell? Help me understand,
my friend. Well, I have a feeling you know a little bit about what I'm going to answer,
but it's very interesting, and this is one of my innovations as a scholar.
There's a lot of Babylonian and Assyrian stuff in the Bible. There's the calendar,
there's a few scattered laws of Moses that come from Hammurabi and Middle Assyrian law,
and old Assyrian law, this and that. There's traces here and there, including, you know,
the start of Genesis that has a lot of Babylonian traditions, and including this thing where
all the Abraham and all of those people, they came from Babylon. Well, no, the Jews and Israelites,
they were all earth-born, you know, Atoxanus peoples who had lived there forever. That's what
archaeology forms this. There was no invasion. They didn't come from anywhere. They certainly
didn't come from Babylonia, but guess what? The Babylonians came from Babylonia. When
the northern kingdom of Samaria fell in 722 BC, King Saragon and Shelman Ezra, one or the other,
or both, they brought in a replacement for the ruling class. There were some Babylonian rebels,
and so when they were defeated, they took their ruling class and brought them into Samaria,
and the Samarian ruling class, they get exported. By the way, Assyria keeps on
referring to Samarian charioteers. They didn't disappear. They were still very effective
horsemen and used in the Assyrian army. So here you have these Babylonians and Assyrians
who are the ruling class in Samaria. But what happened to them? They didn't just evaporate
and become Yahweh worshiping Samaritans. Every country, you get a ruling class,
or you get an educated class, they hold on to their heritage forever, like a dog
keeps a hold of a bone. They're very possessive. Nowadays, you've got exiled
any country where the Shah got deposed or whoever, they try and maintain their position
and status forever. Same with these people in Babylon, these Babylonians that were transported
to Samaria. They kept their traditions alive and a lot of stuff, and they eventually blended in
with the local Israelite population. But they were the educated ones, and they were there at
Alexandria. They were a lot of these educated Samaritan scholars that helped write the Pentateuch.
And sure, they remembered, yeah, we came from Babylon. That's where we came from, and we're
going to write that right into Genesis, because that's where we remember our ancestors came from.
A lot of other stuff. Something that hasn't appeared in any of my books yet,
just like in a book, this couple books down the road, the Sabbath. Where did that come from?
Okay, so scholars, they know that the Sabbath is every seven days,
activity was forbidden, and that that came from Babylonia and Assyria.
They had charts of lucky and unlucky days. And the early versions, every day of the month,
which was like a lunar month of 30 days, every day was different as to what was lucky and unlucky.
Eventually, they simplified it, and they got down to a seven-day cycle. And every seventh day was
unlucky, and you weren't supposed to do stuff, especially the king. It was very unlucky for
the king to do anything that seventh day. And eventually, scholars know that somehow, magically,
that turned into, over in Judea and Samaria, that turned into the Sabbath. Well, how did
that happen? Well, it's because you had Babylonian scholars living in Samaria, who were still doing
all this calendar stuff. And they used that simplified system, and it came up with a seven-day
week, with the seventh day being unlucky. The Sabbath came from the Babylonians living in Samaria.
And in fact, there was a document in 163 BC, when Antiochus Epiphanes had overthrown the Jewish
temple and this and that. And the Samaritans wrote a letter to the Greeks saying,
we're good people, we don't mind you guys, like the people in Jerusalem, and we invented the Sabbath.
That's the only claim in ancient literature as to who specifically invented the Sabbath. It was the Samaritans.
When we talked about the Jewish Sabbath, maybe we should be talking about the Samaritan Sabbath.
But it came... And when you say Samaritan, I need to let some people know this is Israel.
This is the northern Israel, right? Yes, Samaria was their capital city. Sometimes in the Syrian
records, they would call the whole country Samaria, or once they called it Israel, mostly they called
it the House of Omri. But then the Assyrians, when they conquered it and turned it into part of
this area, it was a province of Samarina. And then when it got into the Babylonian and Persian
times, that turned into... The residents weren't called Samarians anymore, they were called Samaritans.
But it basically means the same thing. So those are the northern people and they worshiped at
their own temple, much bigger than that one in Jerusalem, the one on Mount Gerizim.
So yeah, so those Babylonians, they were still doing stuff clear into the Hellenistic era.
Then that's fascinating, total two different traditions.
You know, looking at it from this kind of perspective makes me really want to know more
about the history behind this. One of the things I figure I'd ask is because,
well, a buddy of mine asked, and I want to ask you, if you don't mind, these are not too big.
I wanted to start off with like a show that's not too complicated so people can wrap their heads
around. But here's this question. How do most Hebrew Bible scholars and source critics view
the documentary hypothesis? And how does your theory address this? If there's a way to answer
that without over too much. Okay, I won't give too much detail. The documentary hypothesis said
there were four sources behind the books of Moses. There was one source that used Yahweh
as the name of the God a lot. Another one used Elohim. There was a Deuteronomist and there was
the Esauce that also used Elohim. But anyway, they detected them as different voices. They all had
their different agendas. Four different sources. Documentary hypothesis says that like Jay wrote
around 900 BC and then E of 800 and Deuteronomy 614 BC and the priestly that was in the Babylonian
period all separated by centuries as the Pentateuch or the books of Moses were evolving.
Well, listen, I agree that there are distinct voices, but there's not a scrap of evidence
that said that they're separated by centuries. That's extraneous. In my understanding, these were
just different groups of authors present at Alexandria and 270 BC. There were different
factions and groups and they all had their own voices and that's my adaptation of the documentary
hypothesis. Do you think that they have different voices and they separate them by centuries because
while they're looking internally, right, and they're going, well, that looks like it's very
Syrian or that looks very Persian or that looks very Babylonian or whatever and therefore because
it looks like that internally therefore it must possibly be dated around the time in which the
story kind of claims in a sense that these things were happening and you're saying, hey, the sources
are in Alexandria. They could have easily developed the narrative from these sources
in Alexandria. Yeah. Well, first off, there's so many problems with the documentary hypothesis
because in some places, E uses J and other places, J uses E and other places, you divide it into two
different sources. It doesn't make any sense anymore like the Joseph story. If you divide it, neither of
the two stories make any sense at all. So you had J authors and E authors, they were together in the
same room and they were writing it together. Same thing with J and P. So it makes everything work
if they're all talking to each other at the same time. But no, traditionally what they said is,
oh, J has all these stories, you know, God's walking around and he sees Abraham, blah, blah,
these are these folksy stories. That's really primitive. That's way back in Solomon's time.
And E is a little bit more advanced, theologically or whatever. Deuteronomy,
that's different because there's only instead of in J and E where there's different altars all over
Judea and Israel. Deuteronomy says there's only one temple in Jerusalem. So that must be a later
development. And the priestly source why it's all legalistic and it's cultic and it's that
Jewish legalism. This is a Christian perspective. So, well, that's kind of
devolving. It must be last and it must be the worst. And so all of these preconceptions about
primitive versus advanced and legal versus folklore, it all went into this imaginary development
of religion in those lands. As though everybody changes all at the same time. You know,
it's like everybody, once upon a time, we're telling stories and then they all decided, no,
we're all going to be about the laws this year. Society isn't like that. There's always diverse
voices. And just because there's two voices, you can't see ones earlier and one later. That
no longer makes any sense. And people no longer really believe in the documentary hypothesis that
way. I've rehabilitated it, though, because they are distinct voices. But if they're all
talking at the same time, that really explains the whole thing. And you're sticking with what we
can know with certainty, at least based not certainty, high probability because of hard evidence,
rather than speculation based on some type of assumptions that are going on. If I were to try
and let's say use internal evidence, I could easily run with, well, Genesis goes way back
because look at all the Babylonian stuff. But if you knew possibly what's going on in Alexandria,
or even in your first book, the two authors that are being used possibly by the New Testament,
or not New Testament, sorry, Hebrew scripture authors are using these possible Babylonian and
Persian authors, it's easy to see how they could create and develop something in an ancient,
plus using Plato's concepts. So I can see where you come from. I definitely need to read your
book. Because once I do, we're going to definitely have to jump on a show. Do you mind me asking
more? Go right ahead. How does your theory address the idea of Persian influence in the
Hebrew Bible that supposedly crept into the tradition at a later date? For instance,
the development of traditions about the role of Satan as a cosmic antagonist,
and the development of apocalyptic literature? Well, yeah, there's some truth to that.
There's Zoroastrian through the, you know, of Persian times. They had Ahura Mazda was there.
They used to say he was a monotheistic god, but really he had a flip side that was kind of
darkness and evil. So there were lots of gods going on in the Persian era. But you did, you had
a dichotomy of good versus evil, light versus darkness, and the two sides at war. And it's
been pretty well studied that has crept into Jewish apocalyptic literature, light versus darkness,
good versus evil, God versus Satan. One of my earliest, actually my earliest
10c scroll that I wrote about, kind of got famous about in those circles, was my text was
a document called The War of the Sons of Light Against the Sons of Darkness. And I was able to
show that it wasn't as late as people said, it's actually a document from the Maccabean
wars that it was the official war manual of Judas Maccabe. But they saw themselves as the Sons of
Light, and the enemy were Belial and Satan, the Sons of Darkness, and it was very much good
versus evil. And somehow that did come from Persian Zoroastrian, but it kind of bypassed
the Hebrew Bible. It comes out in the book of Daniel, which is pretty late, it's 163 BC,
well during the Maccabean war, really contemporary with the War of the Sons of Light, the Sons of
Darkness. But you don't really see that in the prophets or pretty much anywhere else.
You have Satan in the book of Job, but he's just, he's one of the Sons of God.
And I was going to say, Isaiah has God, or it appears, has God as the Creator, or almost like,
not just the Creator, but it doesn't, it doesn't sound dualistic like Zoroastrianism,
because in Isaiah he says, I create light and darkness, I'm in charge of both. So don't get
this idea that, you know, that there's like an enemy that holds darkness in his hands that I have
no, no, I'm the one who's doing both, which is actually kind of when I was Calvinist. Oh,
you can really imagine how I used to use that as a weapon towards, oh yeah, I would tell the guys
who believe in free will and believe that, well God created Adam in the garden, and he wanted
them to have the chance. And they slipped up almost, you know, he knew what was going to happen,
but no, no, no, no, no, I went all the way and said, look, God put him in the garden so he could fall.
Like this is how far as a Calvinist. And when I was like, he put him there so he could fail,
so that he could send his son, you know, like I had a predestined concept. His whole purpose was
he was a lamb slain from the foundation of the world. That was the intention. He needed to fall
so that his son could redeem humanity, blah, blah, blah. Anyway, so yeah, that sounds interesting
because it does seem like a later development. It is a later development, but how did they get
it? You know, and that's an interesting question to ask is like, when did Zoroastrianism influence
and of course, Parsi or Pharisees may come from a Persian type of influence that's taking place?
But when did that happen? You know, that's a good question.
Yeah, I wish I had a great answer. I know that Theophrastus and other Greek writers,
they knew about Zoroaster and they knew about some of the Persian traditions that were written
down centuries later and yet in their scriptures that we now have. But Theophrastus, who was a
student of Aristotle, he described some of those beliefs. So anyway, it was known there were these
ideas floating around, but the exact mechanism whereby the Jews acquired some of these ideas
is a little unknown. But apocalypticism is very prominent in crisis times. And so during the
Maccabeean War, when the Belius and King overthrew the temple, outlawed the Jewish religion, burned
all the scriptures and made people sacrifice wine and all of that horrible, terrible stuff,
that was as priceless as you could get. That's also when you get this full-on
light versus darkness ideology that really gripped the Jewish nation and their literature from that
point on. And that's when they really thought the end was going to happen. Yeah. How many times
are they going to do this? I don't know. But in summer of 163 BC, they were like saying,
we're going to have Michael and his angels are going to be on our side and we're going to defeat
the Belial and the forces of the Selius that are about to come in and try and
conquer the kingdom again. And it's going to be apocalyptic and they're all going to
be destroyed. And then there's going to be a resurrection. And then it'll happen.
You can date it, Derek, from the time the sacrifices stopped, 1,260 days, or maybe 1,290
days, because they keep on jumping forward a little bit. That's when this amazing victory is
going to happen. And all the soldiers that are fighting now that are falling heroically,
they'll be resurrected. No problem, because it's the end of the world. And we're going to have
the Messiah back in no time. Now, you got me. I got to ask you. You know not to bring up eschatology.
I'm sorry. My bad. No, you did it. You did it. It's your fault. So I'm going to blame you. And
it's not my fault. I'll take it. Since I'm not a Christian, I can't blame it on Satan.
I'm just going to blame it on you. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Okay. But seriously,
I got to ask you something. You brought up something interesting. Is this David or sorry,
Daniel's writing in a time that obviously is late. There's this idea that's in the Dead Sea
Scrolls, carbon dating. I've heard the disputes and arguments. People like Robert Eisenman who
Professor Eisenman takes it and says, listen, internal evidence makes me suggest this is going
on during the first century. And I get why even if it wasn't, I can get why. Because it's like
another one of those where in a bad spot and they're speaking very similar language as you see in
the Dead Sea Scrolls as you see in Daniel. But I wanted to ask you a more to the point question.
The 70 weeks, all these things that are going on. Daniel's predicting something.
Christians like to go, hey, this is predicting the time of Christ, right? They have a reinterpretation
of Daniel. Right. Right. Is there an original interpretation of Daniel that was supposed to
take place right around that time? Yeah, it was supposed to have the 70 weeks were supposed to
come to an end in 163 BC. The Messiah that was cut off in, I forget, Daniel 9. That was Onias the
Second, the high priest that was executed in 170 BC. And a few months later, the cell uses came in and
they conquered Judea and they were really oppressive. And then in 166 BC, three and a half years later
is when they stopped the sacrifices in the temple. And all of this was supposed to happen in the
70th week of those 70 weeks. This is number 70. And we're halfway through that last week. And then
there's going to be another half a week. At the end of that, that's when the resurrection happens.
That's when Michael will defeat all the enemies. And so 163 BC, that's the end of the 70 weeks,
except it didn't happen. So then a little while later, they said, well, now is the end of the 70
weeks. We didn't mean literally 70 weeks. We meant 70 weeks of years and the years calculate.
Jesus came. Well, one good thing was their chronology was really bad back then. They really
hadn't worked out how long it was between the fall of Jerusalem and the present day. It was
floating. So you could always adjust the starting point to come out to 70 weeks is this weekend.
That's that's when it is. And that happened over and over again. And in the all of it prophecy and
in the book of Revelation that are all influenced by Daniel a lot. And they're still doing it today.
They are. They are. This is this is fascinating. You it is your fault. So yeah, everybody's heard it.
Derek Derek is the groundhog apocalypse.
Man, and we're going to have more shows down the road where we get to talk about
your understanding of Revelation, which is, you know, going to be groundbreaking information in my
opinion, because that's such a misunderstood book in so many ways. And, you know, is it a late date
like 96 AD? Is it really a during the battle date? Or is it a pre 70 AD? Some people like the,
well, there's internal evidence and stuff. We'll get there. So we'll have to leave that topic for
another time. Because if not, you know, someone's going to comment and say, Dagnabit Derek, we knew
you wanted to bring up full preterism. And I have a tendency of talking about things that had a grip
on me. But there's a very clever movement out there that does a very interesting thing with
these things. And me and you had a small talk on the phone, but they, you know, they harmonize.
They harmonize the hell out of some of this stuff. And they make it make sense. And I don't think it
was meant. All these books were meant, even the New Testament books, I don't think they were all
meant to connect the way they do, but you can look for things. You know, I think that also works in
Carl Jung's philosophy, you know, this is synchronicities. If you're looking for it, you'll probably
find it, even if it never was intended, if that makes sense. Yes. Well, you can take, you can take
any set of beliefs, and you can harmonize it with any information. There's always a way you connect
it up. That's why the Mormons exist. That's why the Jehovah's Witness, that's why almost every
cult can come up and have a solid case in their mind. Yep. And they're, they're convinced. They're
absolutely convinced. And so I decided to be a little scientific and say, let's get critical.
So Russell, if, if you don't mind, I'm going to move on to another question. Okay. I have to ask
this for my buddy. If I don't, Steven Nelson, who has, he has the gifts of the spirit on the other
end, the no-no side. So he can probably curse me at will. And I don't want him to curse me. Like,
I want this guy to find a way to give me blessings. So I'm asking these questions because he's a really
good friend of mine, and he's interested in research and stuff far brighter than me on these
things. And here's another one. Were there any Hebrew literary and historical traditions prior
to the Hellenistic period? I think we kind of touched that early. Did the Jews have any oral
traditions or written poetry during the Persian period, which may have influenced the Bible? So
in other words, for those who are watching, were there writings of these people from these nations
prior during periods in which the documentary hypothesis, like to say, Jay goes all the way back
to the Persian or to Babylonian or whatever, you know, when nobody goes back to, to ancient,
ancient beyond that. But nonetheless, is there any writings that they had, and they drew off of
when they compiled these things during the time in the Hellenistic period that you're suggesting?
Well, I'll tell you what. Religious traditions are highly conservative. So
the religious holidays, cultic practices, all of that stuff in the books of Moses,
that was a lot older than the Hellenistic era, probably mostly oral. But we know that
that they reflected earlier times, because for instance, the list of sacrificial animals in
Leviticus corresponds to the bones that we find from Mount Gerizim. They had a bone dump on the
backside of the temple, and you get those same animals. So we know that that that corresponds,
that goes back. And along those same lines, a lot of this, there's, there's two clusters of Psalms.
Some of the Psalms reference the Exodus and things in Genesis and the books of Moses and, you
know, they, they're, they're clearly after they were written after the books of Moses were written.
There's other Psalms, not so much. They just don't refer to anything out of the books of Moses.
And they could well be older. They're, they're religious hymns, probably sung in a temple or
some cultic situation. They could have been written, they could have been older. I have no
problems. In fact, in one case, I know for sure that it was older, because there is one Psalm,
I forget which number it is, but it corresponds to a Psalm on a papyrus they found in Egypt,
except that the gods in that Psalm weren't Yahweh, they were like Baal and a couple other gods. And
so that Psalm goes back to a time when, you know, Yahweh and Baal and El and there were all sorts of
gods running around. That's a good early one. In fact, I've been able to date that one. It's Yahwistic,
but it also mentions Baal and some other gods. It actually goes back to a community of Yahweh
worshipers in Hamas, which is north of the Northern Kingdom. It's like,
and, and there are some Assyrian, there are some Assyrian inscriptions that talk about these kings
with these Yahwistic names. And there's some literature that actually comes from around 720
BC, where these guys way up north, they're worshiping Yahweh. And they had this Psalm about
Yahweh and Baal and their father El and battles. And so that, not even Israelite,
not Jewish, not Israelite, something weirdly bizarre for a Bible person to even conceive,
it made it into the biblical Psalm. So that's, that's a good old one. I'm, I am delighted when
I can find an old source. That's what I like about you. I have to admit, as much as someone who's
listening to this is going to be really like hesitant, especially if they are huge followers
of people who espouse the documentary hypothesis and stuff. You're open-minded to looking for old
stuff, but you're going to start with a critical stance on, a minimalist stance based on the evidence
that we do have, and then work back versus starting with something far maximist or even
middle ground. You're not trying to just start with a balanced view. No, you're going to go
hard evidence or as much as we have in terms of, you know, there's documentation that supports the
idea. This is definitely Hellenistic period when they, when they translate the, the Septuagint.
I have no reason or anything prior to that to suggest that they had a compilation or some type
of code books that are compiled together. We call the Hebrew Bible prior to the time of this
translation. Now, what do you think about the idea that the King that's asking them to come and
translate their scripture? Obviously you talked about the 12 tribes part being fiction in that
narrative itself, but would it not suppose or imply that, hey, they're having them translate
something because they had a text? And so my question is to make it dumbing down for my audience
and myself, when they were supposed to come translate into the Greek, the 70 elders as the
story goes, whoever asked them to come translate, are they not asking them because they already
have a text or is that not implied in the narrative? Well, yeah, absolutely. They had a text.
The only thing is it wasn't a Jewish text. It wasn't the Sumerian text. It was a Greek text.
It's a very interesting story. Okay, so this is Ptolemy II Philadelphia. He's the second
king in the Ptolemaic Empire. When Alexander the Great conquered most of the world and then he
died, it got split up among his four generals. One of the generals was Ptolemy I and he took
Egypt as his own little kingdom, Senator Alexandria. He had a son who was Ptolemy II
in Philadelphia, who built the Great Library, who sponsored the Septuagint translation.
And he said, hey, we hear that you guys have these Laws of Moses. We'd like a copy for our
library. Can you come and give us an official version for our library? Now, where did
Philadelphia get that idea? Well, okay, go back to 315 BC, when it's still Ptolemy I's the first
owner. There's a Greek writer. His name was Hecateus of Abdera. He came down to Egypt. He wrote a book
all about the Egyptians, their history, their customs, everything. And he said that the Egyptians
colonized the world. They said colonies everywhere. They colonized Athens. They colonized Babylonia.
They colonized the kingdom of Colchus on the Black Sea. And they had these little foundation stories
for each one of them. One of his foundation stories was there were too many Egyptians. So they
sent out a colony to their little neighbor to the north called Judea. And it was led by this
Egyptian. His name was Moses. And all of this text, it's preserved. It exists today. But it's
a Greek foundation story. He said, okay, so Moses, he took these guys and they went up to Judea,
which was totally uninhabited. And Moses, he laid out their constitution, their laws. He built,
he founded their capital city of Jerusalem. He founded their temple. He divided up the land. He
conquered some of the neighbors. Most of that stuff is not in the Bible. Moses didn't found Jerusalem.
He did not build the temple. None of that stuff. And his fictional account of Moses and
colonizing Judea, it's kind of like the Bible except that it's totally different. And a lot
of it actually comes from Plato's laws, a lot of the laws that he attributed to Moses. But it's
like these fictional stories about how the Egyptian named Beelus, the son of Poseidon,
he went up to Babylonia and founded Babylonia from Egypt. Total fiction. He's just making this
stuff up to aggrandize the Egyptians. But it's a story where there's a guy named Moses, he leads
colony from Egypt to Judea, found their nation constituted in the laws. Okay, that book, the
history of Egypt by Hecateus of Abdera, it was written for the Ptolemy. It was used to educate
his son Ptolemy Philadelphus. And Ptolemy Philadelphus has this library that wants to have all the
literature of the whole world. And he knows, hey, these Jews, they have these laws by this guy named
Moses. Then the delegation to Judea and say, hey, we'd like to know about those laws. Can you
bring us a copy? Here's go Moses, who's he? Oh, well, yeah, sure, we'll come up there. We'll give
you a mosaic law. You want one? We'll give you one. So they do, they send a delegation of,
in the story at 70 scholars, but really 70 is how many people were in the Jewish Senate. So it was
the Senate sent up a delegation of scholars. They did a lot of research in the library. They came
up with laws from Plato and Athens and all sorts of places. Plus they had a few laws of their own
from like Hammurabi and stuff. Put them all together, turned into the mosaic law, turned into,
and they produced this book that he wanted. He wanted a book about the Moses Foundation story.
They handed it to him on a platter. So yeah, he wanted a translation because he heard about
these ancient laws, but those laws had never been written down until he made that request.
I must ask, what books were included that were written here? Because I know Daniel wasn't part
of the bunch, at least if Daniel's dated later. Do you know, was it just the five books or was it
with their foundation narrative or were there prophets included in this writing during that time?
Well, all that I can
determine, this is pretty accurate, is that they wrote from Genesis through Joshua,
at least probably also the Book of Judges. Joshua and judges, they're both full on Israelite.
The Jews are not prominently Jerusalem, whatever. It's very consistent. But
Ptolemy Philadelphus, he only wanted the mosaic laws. They only translated the first five books into
Greek, but they had the next two books in Hebrew. And that was the start of the collection. But then
they went back to Jerusalem and they, just like Plato said, they researched their whole literature,
all their oral traditions, all their written tradition, everything for writings in every
possible genre. And they put together this national literature that was going to educate
their citizens from then on. But other than Down to Judges, that was all that they produced at
Alexandria. This is interesting. Okay, last one from him. And then we'll start, we'll start
wrapping things up for an introductory podcast because I don't want to kill you. Your voice
gives out if we keep going. Yeah, it's a little scratchy. All right, so he says,
as you know, our earliest copies of the Homeric epics are very late. And the earliest references
to them are from the classical period. Would you date the composition of these epics to the
classical period? Or is there reason to believe that these books are actually based on much older
oral traditions than no longer attributed to a single author named Homer? Now, I feel like that
was kind of answered. You know, when we talked about this, because there was previous, you're
saying that the foundation narrative, though, the Genesis narrative, not that the laws necessarily,
even though there probably were, like you said, created laws that were not there prior, you know,
they probably went to the library, started to find things that were, you know, taught by Plato and
taught from different laws and books and stuff as a research. But, you know, how do you look at
that, for example, with that question? Are we still talking about Homer?
Yeah, sorry. Yeah, I would. Yeah, sure. Just starting with Homer, the standard view, I think,
is pretty correct. He composed it to be recited. It was oral. They may not have even had an alphabet
at the time that Homer wrote these amazing poems, because the Greeks get their alphabet from the
Phoenicians sometime in the late 700s. And Homer and Hesiod, they wrote around maybe 750 to
700. So they were just when the Greeks were becoming literate in the sense of having written
tradition. So it was Homer an actual person. I used to, I read up a lot on that in the past. And
yeah, I think he was a guy. And some of his, some of the writings attributed to him might be later.
And you have to do a critical reading of Homer, just like anybody else. But I pretty much buy that
he was the first great genius of Greek literature. Okay. Yeah. And I think he, I think in that question,
I think it's important to ask, because he says that kind of, I think he's trying to also go to
the idea of the documentary hypothesis with the oral traditions. Right. How much do you think was
possibly prior, I guess, since there may have been stuff that goes back? And what do you think,
I mean, you look for Hellenistic fingerprints, I suspect. Yes. Okay. And if it doesn't have one,
you're up for grabs, so to speak, that it could have possibly predated?
Yeah, I think that the the cultic legislation about the sacrificial furniture, the sacrifices
themselves, sacrifice to get rid of worries about guilt, you know, all the different reasons you
might sacrifice something. The calendar, the holy calendar, a lot of these religious laws
were probably in existence, older, but oral, even among the Greeks, they had their religious laws
were oral, until they were called the unwritten laws, until they wrote them all down around 400 BC.
And so then they have these books of unwritten laws, which anyway, yeah, so so I'm sure there was
this corpus of unwritten laws or oral laws, I don't know, they could have written some of them
down, I don't mind if they did. But there's no evidence that they did. So you have this body of
oral laws that are of a religious nature. And then you have all these civic and political laws
that are kind of different in the books of Moses. But they're all published together.
Now in the ancient Near East, nobody published religious laws or religious
anything. It was closely guarded secrets that the priests held, because that was their monopoly.
So they had a real thing about if they did have any written religious things, they would put curses
on it against anyone who revealed this to regular people. The Greeks, not so much, they would publish
religious and civic laws together, because it was common ownership by the whole people.
So here in the books of Moses, they're all published together, just like the Greeks,
even though the laws themselves might have been older, and they might have been, we'll call them
Hebrew laws, Jewish laws, that there are oral traditions of an earlier date. And yet, and writing
them all down, though, in the way they are in the books of Moses, that's kind of hell in a stick
fingerprints all over. And that's what makes you really different. And that's what I'm interested
in reading your material. Russell, I really do appreciate this for real. This was really a
good show. We have much to come. And a lot of material that I need to read that you've already
put out enough for me to chew on for us to do multiple podcasts. What is the name of your first
book and your second book? Okay, the name of my first book is Porosis and Genesis,
Monaco and Exodus, Hellenistic Histories and the Date of the Pentateuch. That's the title.
That's a heck of a title. Yeah. The second one I decided,
I'll shorten it, it was just Plato and the creation of the Hebrew Bible. And then my current one is
it's just ready to go out the door as Plato's, Timaeus, and the biblical creation accounts,
cosmic monotheism and terrestrial polytheism in the primordial history. So I went back to the
long title again. Yeah, you can't help it, though. I respect it because if you don't give them enough,
they kind of got a, what are you talking about? And then when they read your book.
Yeah, it's like a teaser. Yeah. Well, it's also like you covered so much material, I suspect,
in the book that you rattled into a different topic in the book that you kind of got to go,
the titles got to reflect a little more for them to understand why I went into this and
they went into that. That's really interesting. I guess in this close, I must go back to the
green book, which is actually all your books are green if I'm not mistaken.
I don't know if you're going to do something different with this one. No, two out of six are
green. I've had articles published in other books. Okay, okay. Yeah, but my latest one's green, too.
Okay, well, the first book, the 2006 book, we'll just call it Borosis and Genesis.
There you go. Let's just go with that. And it's Manesis, right? Is the other guy?
Maneso. Maneso. These two characters are really the hinge pin, if you will, on what made you think
the way you're thinking here in this, if I'm not mistaken, at the start of this.
Yes, because they provided the earliest possible date when the books of Moses could have been written.
That's... Which is practically identical with the latest possible date. I mean,
you get a two-year wiggle room. So, yeah. Well, I'm with you in terms of let's be critical,
but let's be open-minded and continue our research. Because for me, when I left Christianity, I went
as minimalist as you can on the New Testament to a point where there was no historical Jesus at all.
I was fully convinced of that, at least in my head that this guy's so mythologized, I just couldn't
wrap my head around how a guy could still exist and you mythologize him to that level, right?
I couldn't understand that. And then now that I've been reading more broader and kind of like just
digging another material, I'm thinking, well, there could have been a guy.
I'm not convinced yet who or what, you know, and I'm only speaking New Testament with Jesus at the
moment, but I mentioned that because that's important in all of this research to me on how I'm
going to approach topics. I used to be maximalist, then I went absolutely as far as you can minimalist
and in terms of saying there may not even have been a guy to let me go back and sweep away some of
this and see there is some history here, maybe convoluted, maybe twisted, maybe something
there, mythologized, whatever, but I'm looking for the bones and you're a man that I'm interested
in interviewing in the future more on this and obviously recommending people to get to work.
They really should and check out his other podcast if that isn't enough. If this is not enough of a
hit, you know, for you to itch for more, you really should check out the other shows he has on
YouTube with Dagger Squad YouTube channel and others. Really important. I really appreciate
you coming on and if you have anything you'd like to say to the guests before we go, please do.
No, it's just been a fun ride. You seem to have a very intelligent audience and people should
think critically. You know, there are no authorities. You know, you can't believe
a minister or someone who's on the opposite end just because you think they're great. Really
process things and think critically for yourself and you'll arrive at the truth, hopefully.
Love it. Love it. Love it. Russell Gamirkin, thank you so much for joining me today
and everybody go down in that description. Check him out. He's got a website. It's down in the
description as well as his book, the links to his books. You guys definitely write me on my email.
It's mythvisionpodcast.gmail.com. That'll be down in the description as well. So if you guys have
any questions or anything you're interested in, let me know and thank you so much, Russell, for joining
me. It's been a pleasure. Yes, sir. And ladies and gentlemen, we are mythvision.
