Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Joel Baden got a question from my friend Jerry Gardner and he says for either
talking about you or Dr. Collins because I knew I was coming up here, if the Israelites
were not slaves in Egypt and there was no Exodus and city quest, how did Israel form?
How did this disparate 12 tribes come together to form Kingdom?
Why didn't the other Canaanite groups join as well?
Good question, that's a, I'd be curious to hear what Professor Collins responded to that if he did.
So, right, there was no slavery in Egypt, there was no Exodus, not in the way the Bible has it.
Right.
Here's what we're really talking about and I will put forth here a story that is more complicated
than what I'm saying, but it's easier to understand the way that I'm saying it.
Okay, so in the 13th century BC, most of the people who lived in what we now call Israel lived on the coast
or in those kinds of, in what are the more fertile areas, the coast, what we call the Shephelah,
which is like the plain, really nice area to grow crops and to live in and in the major cities
that existed at the time, including places like Megiddo and places on the coast and anyway, big cities.
And they were Canaanites, right, they were practiced Canaanite religion and all of these things for the most part.
And in the 12th century, the beginning of the 12th century, basically almost all civilization in the eastern Mediterranean collapsed all at once.
This is, you know, and it probably was climate related where, you know, crops failed or there were, you know,
climate things that forced people to start migrating.
But in any case, there's what we call the late Bronze Age collapse where truly like civilization kind of fell apart.
It happens in Greece, it happens in Egypt, it happens and it happens all over the place, it happens in Turkey.
And as a result, you get this migration of peoples, including prominently a people that we call the Philistines,
right, who moved probably from somewhere in the Aegean, right, in the area of Greece, by land and by sea,
down into what we now think of as Egypt and the coast of Israel, of Canaan.
And the arrival of the Philistines did a couple of things and this collapsed a couple of things.
So people who had been living in some of these cities are starting to get pressured by the arrival of Philistines
and by the sort of collapse of civilization to leave the cities, right?
It's not sustainable for them or it's not safe for them there anymore.
And where can they go?
They start migrating to the east, away from the coast and into the hills, right, the Judean and Israelite hill mountain region.
And we can see archaeologically in the 12th century, suddenly, lots and lots and lots, hundreds and hundreds of small settlements dotting,
where there was no settlement before, suddenly tons of small settlements dotting that area.
And this area becomes sort of like a place for folks to go who don't have homes elsewhere,
almost like, not like refugee camps, but you know, sort of like, if you get forced out of your, where you were before,
you move in here, new area, harder to live, right, you're on a mountainside, so you have to like work a lot harder to grow crops
and certain animals are a lot harder to raise, like pigs.
And you know, you can't eat some of the same stuff because you're further from the coast, like shellfish.
And like, there's, so there's, you know, you're starting a new kind of way of life out there.
But of course, bringing some of your old traditions and practices with you.
And those small communities start coalescing, right, as communities do, right, they're intermarrying.
They say, you know, this village and this village kind of come together and they form tribes and tribes form clans and clans form,
but we know I guess tribes are still good, you know, like, and now they called, they say to themselves, you know, we all who live here,
we're not just a bunch of independent people, right, we like, we'll trace ourselves back to this ancestor.
Let's call him a Friam or Manasseh, or, you know, the folks down in the south trace their ancestry to somebody called Judah,
right, not probably true, but a way of understanding their own relationship to each other, a process called fictive kinship, right,
they're like making up family ties to explain why we're all part of the same community, because communities back then were all kin based.
So if you have a kin based community that joins another kin based community, they got to make up like a new kinship tie to explain their still kin based community.
Probably the existence of the Philistines continues to pressure some groups into like forming military alliances.
So, you know, like, if the Philistines are attacking, you need, I need to join with this group over here so that we can better defend ourselves.
Right, that's not weird. How do you think the US came to be, right, in part.
So you start getting alliances and groupings and along the way at some point comes a new, right, with a new sense of identity for this new people out there,
we get a new national deity, right, where does Yahweh come from?
I don't know, probably from the south, almost certainly from the south.
We even have in the Bible references to, you know, Yahweh comes from the south, like that's a literal sentence in the Bible.
And it's quite likely at this point that, you know, it's not just native Canaanites who have moved into the hill country that are forming this new kind of culture out there,
but also some people coming in from other parts of the world, especially maybe some folks from the south, maybe even some folks from Egypt, right.
It's not that, right, when we say that the exodus didn't happen, we don't mean there were never any peoples from that part of the world in Egypt, right.
What we mean is not like that, right, like all of Israel wasn't ever there in that, in that way.
We have Egyptian records of Semitic peoples who were enslaved, who were fleeing towards Canaan.
I would bet those people would end up not like in the main, like big cities, like with their walls and their, I don't know, things,
but in the sort of the looser conglomeration of disaffected folks who live out there in the highlands, right.
It's like, again, refugees.
Do they bring with them some sort of worship of Yahweh?
Maybe.
I'm not one of these people who's going to be like, Yahweh definitely came right from, was brought with the exodus people.
I don't know that.
It's southern.
It's a southern deity, probably.
It's like, we just don't, we don't have the answers.
And that's, I'm okay saying that, like, I don't know when Israel started worshiping Yahweh or why.
But the point is that Israel as the, as a nation, start, it comes into existence sort of organically from the bottom up.
Why do the Canaanites not do this?
Because the Canaanites have city-states, right, with kings.
Megiddo had a king, right.
Hatzor had a king, right.
They didn't need, they weren't looking to align themselves as like a full nation.
They were like the Philistines, who also were, there's no nation to Philistines.
There were city-states, right.
The Gaza was a city-state.
The Ashkelon was a city-state.
The Arameans were the same way, right.
Like there was no nation of Aram.
There was like Damascus was a city-state, right.
Like in various, so like, it's a different social organization is all.
And they were much older, right.
So Israel's much more tribally, organically bottom up kind of organized.
And that's how we end up with sort of a tribal, tribes that connected with each other.
And eventually we're like, and here's even the biblical story is why did they suddenly become a kingdom, right.
Why did these various tribes who I'm saying sort of grew organically and coalesced in these sort of bottom up ways.
How did they end up becoming a kingdom?
Even the Bible's answer is, because they needed somebody to fight the Philistines for them, right.
Like they needed to be organized to fight off the Philistines.
But that's how Saul becomes king, right.
How does David get involved?
Because Judah, the like tribe, the big sort of empty tribe to the south also needed like, right, needed defense against the Philistines, right.
That's David's first big, like, you know, his first big break is when he starts fighting the Philistines.
So there's external pressures to coalesce and grow.
Internal, you know, self-organization and kinship ties that are happening.
It's still a complicated story, but you can, right, it's actually, the U.S. is not a terrible analogy, right.
Like, if England is Canaan and the U.S. is Israel, right, like, you know, people came and settled, right, in bits and pockets.
And then those, you know, they were like, oh, let's make a, like, let's do a state.
Like, let's organize ourselves a state.
And then the states, certain states come together and they're like, for economic reasons, right.
Like, we should, let's establish trade between our states.
Like, okay, that creates ties. Mutual defense, that creates ties.
Mass mutual rebellion against England creates ties, right.
England has now turned into Philistia, but like, it's the same kind of combination of factors.
Nobody came to, right, nobody came to, you know, to what is now the U.S. and was like,
let's start a nation with a bunch of states in it.
And we're going to call it the United States, right, like, it starts small and organic.
And then it, like, grows into that through various internal and external pressures.
Israel's the same thing. Nobody was like, let's start a nation called Israel, right.
They moved into little settlements and then they grew together and then there were external pressures and internal things.
And eventually, like, they had a thing.
And that's like, the not at all what the Bible tells us, but probably more accurate in terms of both archaeology and sort of,
and international, you know, relations stuff. It's probably closer to what happened.
Thank you.
