Dr. Richard Carrier, appreciate you again with all your time, have another question from a
patron member, thank you T. Rose for being a patron of ours, and of course everybody else who
supports MythVision. I know this may not be the right question, but I wonder why humans are so
prone to believe a myth over the truth. I'm thinking of those people in Paul's day as well as today.
How do you think the Jesus movement began if he wasn't a person? Was it started by James or Simon
Peter? Well the last question part obviously I think it's Peter because Paul actually tells us
that, right? Peter is the first person to have a revelation and he has some quorum of 12 that he then
convinced to either have or claim to have the same revelation. Revelation at that time could mean
either a dream, you dream and encounter with the God and believe that it was real, or a waking
vision, and there's a variety of ways that waking visions were normal at the time. We have tons of
examples in pagan literature as well. It's not just Christians, right, and Jewish literature too.
There's a lot of holocaque literature that talks about ascension stories and revelation stories for
rabbis and things like that, and Christianity fits into that model. So it would be Peter, right?
Peter would have the first vision. Now the vision of course confirms basically an expectation. The
expectation might actually predate Peter, right? We have hints at the Chumran text. The hints of
the Chumran text of something like Christianity is already being predicted to occur. Now the
manuscripts are so mutilated and so fragmentary that it's impossible to really nail this down the
way we would like to, but it is entirely possible that there was already a sect of Jews who were
talking about this going to happen at some point. And then all that Peter adds is, you know what,
I had a dream, Jesus came to me and says, it's done, he did it, and the end has begun. Like it's
the clock has started, we got to start missionizing now. So the sort of nascent Christianity could
predate him as possible. We can't confirm this or refute it, because you just don't have the evidence.
It doesn't exist, it doesn't survive. But Peter definitely is the one who started it. And then
when Paul comes along, he modifies it. And he's the one who makes Gentiles able to come in without
converting to Judaism. And then that takes over that just swamps the rest of the church. And so
all future Christianity is this Gentile mutation of this Jewish sect. It's not the original
sect at all. So many things to get into. One thing I noticed that you said, and this is what
I hope people will vicariously live through myth vision for, you make me back up. Like as I listen
to you, I'll get every other scholar and there's a son of God, Richard's wrong in a certain area.
And I don't act like you're wrong about everything, but something, right? Then I hear you, because I
love being a student. And I really want to listen to what you have to say. I'm not, I don't think,
I have the answer and you have to write. And then you start explaining things. And I go, man,
we're in this bubble of Christian studies, of New Testament studies, and we're not really
thinking of the world, the Mediterranean world where this is that, and all the people that
were brushing shoulders and ideas that were going on. So to pin down and be so dogmatic about what
the hell we know, we need to pause. But anyway, that was my little revelation just now.
We often don't know things. We have to be comfortable with that. I come from the tradition,
because I was trained up in Columbia University as a historian, not as a biblical exegete, right?
I became one through my research and studies and peer review publications and all of that.
But as, when you come up as a historian, what you're taught is to be, to expect to be disappointed,
right? Like we're part of, you know, our mantra is often we just can't answer the question, right?
And often you don't know for sure. And you have to like admit doubt and uncertainty and things
like this. And I find in New Testament studies, there's not as much pushing of that perspective,
the actual perspective of actual historians doesn't show up as much in New Testament studies.
So if you come from a theology school, the theology PhD or divinity or something like that,
you've been given a slightly different epistemology that might make you a lot less comfortable with
admitting that you don't know stuff. And so I think maybe that does affect some of the historians
who write in this field. Or especially bucking up against the common understanding of something,
especially when we're now like, admittedly realizing that Judaism is anachronistic to even
use the term like this thing we call Judaism and how much impact Hellenism had within Jewish
peoples. We're thinking like the level, I mean, I'll, I'll fill you in later on on the sephirist
trip we've took and the things we saw. And I'm like, this is a Jewish guy's house. And
oh, these are the elite Jewish people in this area. And I'm like, well, how are they monotheists?
Because they can't be when you see what I saw. So anyway, another thing that T-Ros said that I
thought was interesting, and it's more of a psychological, there's probably a lot built
into this question, but I like the first part, which is why humans are like this.
Why do people believe or prone to believe myth over the truth?
Yeah. So Daniel Dennett did a book. I can't remember the title of it right now.
It's alluding me, but it's on it's on this question of basically the anthropology and
sociology of religion. And he summarizes the sort of state of the scholarship on this.
So Daniel Dennett's book on this is the one to start at because it summarizes all of the stuff
and then has bibliographies that point you to certain authors like Guthrie's Faces in the Clouds
and other authors. There's also been authors who've done like the anthropology and cognitive
science of superstition in general. And these I think are important studies to look at because
they're they're telling you the answer to this question. And one thing we do is go to Wikipedia
and type in list of cognitive biases. There's a page that's just called list of cognitive biases
and it's hundreds of entries long. And it just shows you that's how broken our brains are.
Our brains are really badly designed and they're highly prone to false belief.
And it's really hard to fix that. And so really this idea of logic, rationality, scientific method,
critical thinking, these are rather late cultural inventions. They're tools, they're kind of like
firmware and reinstalls that we have to plug in. Their brains don't have this stuff innately.
And in fact, our brains don't take it innately either. Like it takes a lot of work even to get
it in there. And then of course, you easily will start falling in the ruts of your brain's natural
reasoning capabilities, which are pretty poor. So you have to actively actively struggle to
use these tools of reasoning to correct for the flaws and inability of your brain to actually
correct the reason. And that takes a lot of effort, but also you have to know that you have
to do it, right? So you have to know what skill the skills are, and then you have to be committed
to actually maintaining the use of those skills in all fields. The tendency of people is to fall
back into the ruts of our natural brains construction. And that leads to all kinds of false beliefs.
Yeah. I'm wondering in that question, just getting your thoughts, if myths carry something that
truth doesn't typically, there's a false sense of completeness, of wholeness from telling a story,
something psychological there within a narrative, even with a lie.
One thing that's good that's happened in the last like 100, 200 years, and Dr. Flynn who
wrote about the Flynn effect, which is the rising IQs that have been happening in the last
100, 150 years, is that we have transitioned from a myth based culture to a fiction based
culture. So we readily consume fiction and are completely comfortable with the fact that it's
fiction, right? So books, comics, movies, television shows and things like that. So people will use
like episodes of Star Trek or the movie Apocalypse Now to speak truths about the world, like these
movies, when they're good and they're well done, they do say true things. And you can use them as
allegories or as examples to illustrate certain points that are true in the world. And we do this
all the time, but we're comfortable doing it, admitting that, oh yeah, that episode of Star
Trek is fiction. But I think like the message of it is still true. And that's still empirically
defensible, right? That aspect of it. And that's what myth used to do. But what it used to be was
that people get really tied up in, if the myth isn't literally true, then neither is the subtext
true. And so there's always this tendency to believe the myths are literally true and even
get angry at the suggestion that they're not. And now today, that's only survived, I think,
in political ideologies, where we have mythologies that people need to believe in,
in order to support their political positions. And so to tell a story, let me give an example,
there was someone once like wrote this angry article about how federal money was being horribly
misspent on this freeway island where they planted grass but didn't spend all this money to have
people plant grass but didn't plant any sprinklers and the grass just died, what a waste of money.
And he factually researched it and that never happened. It's a myth, right? He just made this
story. If he didn't make it up, someone made it up and told it to him and just believed it because
it agreed with his ideology and his ideology is supported by it. So it becomes sort of reversed
like the evidence and conclusion is flipped upside down, where you believe this stuff because it
supports the things you want to believe and then it becomes fact. And that's the modern myth now.
And that's the same way that myth used to work back then, actually. So you have the lower classes,
especially the illiterate, used to think the myths were largely true. And if you were to suggest
that they weren't, that was actually a threat to their belief system and their identity and things
like that. And we have, I actually talked about this in my book, The Scientist in the Early Roman
Empire, how even writers would advise each other like, don't talk about how like,
don't talk about how physics explains storms and not gods, right? Like to the poor people because
they're not going to like that. But you know, just keep that quiet when you're dealing with like
poor folk. And so they have things like that where they really talking to each other like,
don't challenge the myths because people are so ingrained in believing them. And today,
if that kind of thinking really only survives now in political ideology, it doesn't survive.
You could say it survives in religion, but even religion is so caught up now in evidentiary
apologetics, right? Like we need evidence to believe what we're doing. And so you get the
fabrication of evidence, you get specious argumentation and things like this, rather than just saying,
well, the Bible says, right, like you don't run into that as often, like it still exists,
there's pockets of people who will say, well, the Bible says it, so it must be true. But in general
culture, even in America, which is like weirdly more religious than most of the first world,
even there, most people don't buy that argument say, well, the Bible says like, yeah, come on,
like, what's the evidence of that, right? So, you know, that's the way things have changed
because of the scientific revolution, the enlightenment, and also the rise of fiction,
because fiction has allowed people to realize, oh, you can just make up stories, right? And so
people are, and you can then you analyze and study the stories. So you're much more skeptical and
able to analyze and recognize fiction when you see it. So and myths look a lot like fiction, right?
So so if you're inclined to see something as fiction, then you're going to be much more
skeptical of it. And I think today, like the idea of religious mythology is kind of in the decline,
whereas political mythology is on the rise. And that that's where we are, I think. But overall,
I think in net, we've kind of transitioned from mythology to fiction as our vehicle for telling
second order truths, like the idea like there's a truth in the story. The story is not literally
true, but there is a truth there that makes the story important. And we do that now, but we do
it with fiction in a way that in antiquity, they used to do it with me.
