Dr. Richard Carrier, got a question from one of my Patreon members, David Salome
Abona. Question for Dr. Carrier, and any other mythicist interviewed. It's
difficult to explain mythicism to laypeople because mythicism doesn't provide a chronology for the
origin of Christianity. An alternative to the official Christian version. Dr. Carrier, as any
good scholar, says, we don't know because there is not enough evidence to know what happened before
Paul. What would be a plausible chronology for the origin and development of Christianity up to
Paul or Mark's Gospel? Is it okay to speculate? I mean, yes, as long as you know that that's what's
happening, right? Speculation is fine as long as you don't start treating it like a premise,
like it's something that someone has asserted is true. So we're talking about what's possible.
There are many scenarios that are possible, right, that would fit the evidence perfectly well.
But if, and I actually go into this a little bit in my book, Jesus from outer space, I have a whole
chapter on how Christianity transitioned from the original version to the you hemorrhized version,
the version where they're arguing that there was an actual earthly Jesus walking around Galilee.
And I actually talk about possible timelines and things in there.
Quite simply, if you talk the thesis that I develop in On the Historicity of Jesus, which is
the one peer-reviewed mythicist theory, alternative explanation of the origins of Christianity,
I actually, I don't give dates, but I have like a timeline in chapter 12 of that. There's a section
where I go through the evidence and the course of events. The only question to fill in would be the
actual dates at which things happen, but which we that's what we can't do because we don't have
specific information. So what do we have? We have Paul writing about 50s AD talking about events that
have occurred that he claims to have occurred 20 years earlier. And then about 20 years after
that, we have the gospel of Mark and then all all other gospels spin off of that. In fact,
they're all built off top of the top of Mark. So there is no independent gospel tradition that we
know of. Now, by the time we get to Mark, I think Mark is a one-off. I think he's the first one
to actually do this, to actually create a myth involving Jesus in Galilee. He's made the decision
to put Jesus in Galilee. He's made the decision to have Nazareth his home base. He's made the
decision to have Capernaum one of his main areas of working and so on. So I think Mark did all of
this. I don't think I don't see any evidence of there being anything, anyone doing this before
him. Now, this is where Dennis MacDonald would disagree. He thinks there's another community
that has done this with before Mark. And then he would link that back to historical Jesus. But
I don't think there's a cue. So there being no cue, Mark is our first that we have that we know of.
And I think the evidence suggests that there isn't one. Because if you look, you look at Paul,
you don't see any gospel stuff going on in there, anything that ties to the historical narrative
that Mark has created. And if you look at First Clement, which I think was made written in between
them. So after Paul died, but before the Jewish war and therefore before the gospel of Mark. And
it also covered in on the history of Jesus, why First Corinthians has to be put there. It doesn't
make any sense coming later. First Corinthians also lacks any knowledge of anything that's in
Mark. So anything that's distinctively historical about Mark. So I think Mark is the first time
what this happens. And then all subsequent histories of Jesus are just riffs off of Mark,
they're just rewrites of Mark, expansions on Mark, etc. So that puts the origin of that piece of
Christianity in the 70s AD, roughly, certainly no earlier. And that's already 40 years. That's an
average human lifetime back then, from when the religion would have begun. And so,
so let's go back to the beginning. What do I think happened in the beginning? I think in the
beginning, you have Peter, the person we call Peter, Kephas in Aramaic, is already a significant
figure in some sect. Something similar to the Dead Seek sect. We don't know exactly, we can't
link exactly what sect, whether it's Essene or some sort of radical fringe version of Phariseeism
or whatever. But there's already a sect, I think, going on. And they're already an apocalyptic
sect. They're already doing the kinds of things that we see at Qumran. In fact, they might even
be a spin off of the Qumran sect, not really sure. And so there's already a quorum of 12,
just like there was at Qumran. So Qumran, we know there was a quorum of 12. They already had this
group of people representing, probably the intention is to represent the leaders of the new
tribes of Israel and after the apocalypse and stuff. So there's the same kind of apocalyptic
thinking and reconstituting the 12 tribes of Israel as a part of the logic of their creating
councils of 12. So I think that already existed. And I think they're already doing what's happening
at the Dead Sea where they're rating the scriptures for secret hidden messages from God for when the
apocalypse is going to come. And they're trying to calculate when it's going to happen, how it's
going to proceed and so on. So we have all these pressures, these sort of commentaries that are
figuring, trying to figure out the secret messages in scripture. And it's very clear that Christianity
was built out of one of these. It's definitely a pressure based religion. They found all these
disparate passages in scripture, stitched them all together, and that was the revealed amazing new
thing. So at some point this sect, and it would be the 30s AD, at some point in the 30s AD, for
whatever reason could have been mathematical calculations, it could have been just spontaneous
inspiration. Kephas had a vision or claimed to have had a vision of the Christ instructing him,
the time is now, it's happened. And it said, just as you've been seeing in the scriptures,
everything you predicted, it's happened. And in this case, in the mythic scenario, of course,
it would be, yes, I have actually assumed a body, it would be like the Philippians' hymn, right?
I've actually assumed a body, I tricked Satan and his demons into killing me, and that has actually
removed all the sin of the world. And now God has resurrected me, it's begun the end of the end times.
I'm the first fruits of the general resurrection, the resurrection has begun, the end is nigh.
And this is what, this is the vision that Kephas had or claimed to have. And then he convinced the
quorum of 12 to have or claim to have the same vision confirming his thing. And so this began
their new outbreak apocalyptic cult. And it isn't, it's an anti-temple cult as a counter-cultural
cult. So they're very much saying, we have a new and better message, and the end is nigh, so you
better get on board with us or you're going to be damned with all the other corrupt Jerusalemites
and Jerusalem leaders and stuff. So it's, it definitely fits in context of the kind of apocalyptic
anti-temple counter-cultural stuff that was going on. And so that sort of movement started, and it
was originally a Jewish movement. You've got to be Torah observant, you got to be Jewish at what
they weren't really thinking. If, insofar as Gentiles were involved at all, they were converts to
Judaism. So that meant circumcision, following the dietary laws and everything, becoming a full Jew.
And then Paul comes along and we don't, Paul never gets into detail as to what he meant by
persecuting the church, other than that they didn't like it. So he was doing something we don't
really know. He might have been going around arguing, he might have been going on trying to
get them arrested or for something. There was nothing inherently illegal that he could get
them arrested for. So he must have been trumping up specious charges or if that's what he was even
doing. He might have just been going and criticizing and trying to be a rabble rouser. But for whatever
reason, he was a Pharisee who was against this sect and trying to argue against this sect and
defeat it. And at some point in the late 30s, he had his own revelation, just like Kephas did,
that convinced him he was wrong all along, that he'd been persecuting, he'd been on the wrong
side of this. And I can even give you a speculate, the psychology, the psychology of Paul at this
moment. And again, I want to reiterate, this is speculation, this is one of 100 different scenarios
that could have happened. But so I'm not saying I know that this is true, but this is just one
thing that could have happened. Is I think Paul started to realize that the moral social message
of the Christians was better for Judaism and better for the world than traditional Pharisees.
I think he realized that Phariseeism is kind of a doomed way of thinking. It's going to lead with
tension with Rome, it's going to lead with violence and war. And that's going to be bad. Whereas the
Christian movement had an opportunity to unite the Gentiles and the Jews in a common, peaceful way of
thinking, and that would actually have a more moral message for organizing society. There's an
economic message in there, there's a political message in there, by deciding yourselves to create
your own more perfect society without having to militarily overthrow anything. So I think he saw
this as extremely politically and economically important. And he may have, you know, Machiavellianly
saw it that way, or he may have genuinely thought that this was therefore had to be a message of
God, because if it is right, it must come from God. So it must have convinced him that he was wrong
all along. And that might have led him to pretend to have a revelation that converted him to sort of
explain, because that's how you would get into a position of authority is claim that Jesus appeared
to you and elected you. Joseph Smith. Right. You would have to claim this back then. But it
could also have been subconscious. He might have genuinely had one of these experiences. And I go
into in element 15 and chapter four of On the Historicity of Jesus, I list all the psychology
and science we have of all the different ways this could genuinely happen. And we have a lot,
we know a lot about schizotypal personalities, we know a lot about sleep deprivation based,
you know, ritual chanting and how that can lead to altered states of consciousness and so on.
There's lots of ways that this could genuinely have happened to Paul, based on his subconscious
reasoning, churning up a vision that he needed to convince him to go forward. But there's also
the Joseph Smith model where he could just claim that because he believed in the social
moral message. The only way you can get people to get sign on with it is to get them to believe the
soteriological theological message. And that required you to claim to have genuinely met Jesus
and so on. So whichever way you think it happened, either one looks the same. So that's why we can't
tell the difference in the evidence that we have. And so then that's when he starts coming up with
the idea that we know no Gentiles don't have to convert to Judaism. They can be saved just by
staying Gentiles and just following a certain simpler set of rules and getting baptized and
joining the community. And so he's trying to unify the two worlds. This created a little bit of
tension with the original apostles, but he is eventually able to convince them that his idea
is a good one. And once again, I think there might have been a little Machiavellian thinking here on
both sides because Paul constantly refers in his letters to collecting cash from his different
churches and bringing it back to the quote unquote saints in Jerusalem. So there's cash
flowing in. He's showing up with bags of cash and saying, Hey, I've got a good idea. So give me
endorsement and I'll keep bringing you bags of cash. He doesn't explicitly say that, but you can
read between the lines. It looks like that's what's going on. So that's one possible scenario of what's
happening. And so they decide to let him in. And so they say, okay, yeah, you do the, as Paul says,
I'll be the missionary to the Gentiles, you be the missionary to the Jews, and then we'll have
this unified church for approval. Right. Exactly. And so that that still created tensions and problems
and so on, but they were on board with it. It's very clear that the central church, the original
group, allowed this to happen and basically gave their seal of approval, essentially, rather than
condemning them as anathema, which is important because he himself talks about condemning other
Christians as anathema preaching other Jesuses. So there were already cults that are being cut
off and saying, no, you're not, we're not giving you a status of authority. But he got it for whatever
maneuvering he did to get it. And there's some signs, I think, of what he did. But
now this has an economic sociological effect because there are way more Gentiles than Jews.
There were already tons of Gentiles who were interested in converting to Judaism. We know
there's a lot of interest in inflow doing that, but there was a lot of resistance to going a full
convert because cutting off a piece of your penis is a bit prohibitive. And the dietary laws are
really restrictive. And so that that was sort of a wall that limited how many Gentiles actually
converted. But now Paul took all the hardships away. So now you can get all the things that you
like at a much cheaper price, basically, socially and everything. So what's going to happen? His
church is going to explode while the market for the Jewish Christianity is already tapped out,
right? Like there's nowhere for it to go. And so his church grew enormously larger
over time than the Jewish Christian Church. And the Jewish Christian Church did just fade out and
die away. It was a tiny dwindling sect eat by at least the fourth century. It's not even clear
that they even still existed by the fifth century, unless they did. And that's what evolved into
Islam. That's a whole other story. Islam looks like an evolution of this original Torah observant
Christianity. But so anyway, that's the situation when Mark is coming along. And so you still have
communities that are combined, you have Jews and Gentiles together, Christian communities.
Some are getting more and more angry and isolated from each other. And the war is a big problem
because the war now creates a huge antipathy between Jews and Gentiles. So the Jews are now a
lot less popular than they used to be. And so you have Mark come along and explain, he has to explain
two things. He has to explain why the Jews and Gentiles can still get along. But he also has to
explain why God allowed the temple to be destroyed and didn't end the world, right? Because they
were already they were predicting that the armies would come and there'd be an Armageddon kind of
thing. It'd be a battle. And but the end was supposed to come after that, right? So the Jewish
war happens, the temple is destroyed. And then nothing happened. So this is the problem that
Mark has to explain. And so his gospel is kind of a way of explaining that in a way of packaging
their ideas to market it to more people and and to do it in a way that allows the Jews and Gentiles
to accept each other and understand and move on. And basically, he's saying, we don't need the
temple cult anymore. Therefore, we don't need the Torah observance so much anymore. We can but we
can still follow the true God of this, you know, the Jewish God and so on. And based on the scriptures
and all of this, and still have a still realize the community that we wanted to realize the moral
and social message. And then you have the more pro Jewish side doesn't like this. So Matthew writes
his gospel, which is he's basically rewriting Paul or rewriting Mark, adding a bunch of stuff.
And in such a way that I suspect that the authors of Matthew were intending people to
actually marketing this as the original gospel and trying to claim that Mark is the pretender,
the cheap copycat. We don't have explicit evidence of this. So remember, we're in the
speculation mode here. So I suspect that's the case, but I can't prove it. But anyway, regardless,
Matthew is arguing with Mark. Matthew is saying, no, you have to be a Torah observant Jew. Only
Torah observant Jews can come in. Even if you're a Gentile, you Gentiles can come in, but they
have to convert. They, you know, not one jot or title of the law is not going to be taken away
until the end of the world. And then you have Luke comes along and he wants to like fix this
tension. So he's still pro Gentile. But he wants to like smooth things over a bit and also smooth
things over with Rome. So Luke's very concerned with making Christianity attractive and popular
and acceptable to Roman audiences. And then John comes along and he hates everything Luke did,
and he writes his own, you know, position, his own position paper on it. He rewrites the gospel
to sell his own particular document, his own particular perspective. And each of these documents
represents a community, right? There's a community behind these authors that they're trying to fight
for against the others. Anyway, that's the development of the gospels. And that gets us up to
just before the middle of the second century. And that's when we have all these diverse sex
competing with each other. And then people are starting to assemble New Testaments. They're
starting to assemble the early versions of canonical lists. We need to mend these
disparate groups into one and let all their documents be one. Well, at the same time,
choose who not to let in, right? Let's choose who we're going to cut off
and declare anathema and who we're going to like meld into one unit, right? And all they're all
doing this. This is all going on. So anyway, that's, that's the timeline I think we're looking at.
So we're looking at, you know, originally, it's this, this, this offshoot,
you know, fringe sect that already has a lot of the ideas of Christianity in it.
That's the spin off and say of the Dead Sea sect run by Kefos and his quorum of 12. And then he
has this vision of the death and resurrection of the Christ that has happened celestially. And
then now we know from Revelation that this has happened. And they have this breakout new, you
know, Mormonist like the end is nigh, let's do this thing now reform message. And then Paul comes
along, fights against it, but then decides he wants to side with it flips. And then, and then you
have the Pauline literature and the Pauline effect. But his church is the one that ends up
writing the first gospel of a lifetime later, you know, 20 years later, under Mark doing it.
And so then, and then you have all these other churches that have evolved to that time, the
Jewish wars, a big pivotal event that changed the trajectory of everything, changed the arguments
that had to be made and so on. So that's, I think, probably the best I can do as far as timeline of
how the origins of Christianity arose up to the middle of the second century. And that's one
again, one possible I could probably write four or five different timelines that would fit the
evidence and different causal systems and so on that would fit the evidence. We just can't narrow
it down beyond these. Thank you.
