They've put out the whole thing up.
All right, so yes, we are live.
And here's just a short little introductory scene
that is from the documentary that our friend Andrew Gold today
is going to be discussing.
And of course, make sure you subscribe to him.
We have some cases of young people supposedly
possessive type safety.
All right, all right, all right.
Enough of the exorcism.
Everybody, welcome to MythVision.
I hope you're doing well.
I have a special guest today, Andrew Gold joining us today.
Andrew, you're a journalist.
And you also helped to create quite an interesting documentary
that was taken over by BBC.
Can you tell me about this documentary
and who you are, where people can go follow you?
Because I'm sure we're going to talk about some exciting stuff
today.
Sure.
Well, yes, I'm a former BBC HBO journalist,
documentary maker.
People can follow me on YouTube, on On the Edge with Andrew Gold.
Quite a similar channel to yours.
And you're going to come on mine soon as well.
And so hopefully we're going to swap around lots of viewers
and subscribers and things who, if you like one,
you might like the other.
And that film, that film, so I was out living in Argentina.
I've been really into languages and things like that.
And so I'd been living there for a while.
And I looked on TV and the radio and stuff.
And I kept seeing this exorcist guy who was becoming more and more
famous out there.
And he was taken very seriously by pretty much everyone.
And he would say things like, you know,
he'd be on some sort of morning news channel that show the news.
And then he would pop on and say, by the way, Halloween coming up.
So make sure you've got enough pumpkins and this and that
to ward off evil spirits.
And I just thought, like, is anyone,
I was sort of waiting for people to be like, well, not really.
And everyone was like, what else can we have?
Padre Manuel, because that's his name, Padre Manuel.
What else should we do?
And he was like seen as an expert.
So I thought, oh, come on.
So the idea was I wanted to see what exorcism was,
what it does, how it works, because it does work.
And that's the amazing thing about it.
But I wanted to look at it from a secular perspective
and to get the BBC involved and try it myself.
And that's that's how it came about, really.
That's a very interesting point you make.
I mean, like, let's give an example.
Apply this to drug addiction, right?
We know there are methods from a secular standpoint medicine.
There are things we have learned through science about addiction
where you don't need to go down those paths of I need God, I need this, I need that.
But many people do choose to go down certain paths, 12 step programs,
religion, you name it.
And sometimes it works.
But, but oftentimes they're kind of replacing one thing for another, it seems.
And so I'm curious to take this journey with you into South America
to go see what Andrew or Padre, is it Andrew, you said?
Not Andrew.
He's Padre Manuel.
Manuel, okay.
So, yeah, you, you went down there.
You were very polite.
I'm watching the documentary.
I mean, you are in a foreign area, so you don't really know what to expect.
What was the experience like when you first met the guy?
The rumors are this guy's legit.
This is a real exorcist who's the real deal.
He's not a faker phony.
And you approach him, you go and you meet them.
How was your initial greeting with these people?
Well, well, I sort of think that they, I think that all exorcists are not real.
I don't, you know, I don't think that, I don't believe that any of them are real,
but it's just about whether he's, he knows he's fake or not.
That's what I think is impossible to know.
When I first met him, well, he's got these sort of chubby cheeks that made me think,
and you shouldn't, you know, based on what someone looks like and how they act and stuff.
I don't believe in much of that behavioral stuff,
but he just looked something smarmy about him, something distrust worthy.
But look, he wanted me to, you know, as soon as I mentioned the BBC and stuff like that,
he was like, yes, yes, let me show you my, my church.
And his church is filled with all sorts of memorabilia from the movie, The Exorcist,
that has his face superimposed over that of the, the characters from The Exorcist.
So he's really into like media and promotion and PR.
And he's got a whole team working on, which I now know is not that uncommon.
And particularly in the States, those big evangelists, the mega churches and stuff,
they're really good on social media.
And so is he.
So he's really into that stuff.
And he thought, OK, this is great.
I'm going to get loads of PR in the UK and internationally,
and the BBC is going to send my face everywhere.
So he was very excited.
We got on well, of course, at the beginning.
He speaks in a very formal, antiquated way.
He's almost saying like, lords, you know, thou shalt whatever, but in Spanish.
But it was fine.
And as you say, I was polite, but I think I was also in a very sort of subtle English way.
I was a little bit mocking.
I mocked a little bit and I asked questions that were a little bit silly about like vampires
and things like that, which I don't believe in.
And I knew he did.
And so there was a little bit of that going on.
And I think he starts to sort of cotton on to that as as we progress,
because I stayed with him for quite some time.
Like a few weeks, we were filming me and my friend David, who was a director.
We sort of filmed in his church.
So we were getting on well at first and things started to go a bit ory after some time.
So they they obviously tried to exercise you, but we'll get into that.
During your stay, how long would you say you were with them before
things start to pivot into more of a this is serious.
This is not good.
We're starting to catch the vibes.
Well, so the first thing was that, like, I thought this was going to be silly and fun.
So I went into it just like, oh, what a silly thing exorcism is.
And I think maybe that's my naivety as well.
I was I was a bit younger now.
This was a few years ago and I hadn't made as many documentaries and things.
I think I would now go in with a little bit more like just just weariness
and being aware of how much I don't know about anything because I don't know about anything.
And so I had seen exorcisms on like, you know, vice media and stuff like that on YouTube.
And they always look silly and funny.
And I think part of the reason they look funny is because we other other people
because they speak different languages to us and they're from different cultures.
And we just see this as like, who are these nut jobs?
Like, what what ridiculous things?
But because I got to do this up close, I got to get up close and personal with,
you know, the women in this case, they were all women for whatever reason,
undergoing the exorcisms.
And these were people who were going through serious mental health conditions.
So it was actually very sad.
So the first exorcism that we did,
I was ringing the bells, so I was actually taking part in the exorcism.
And I could see this woman beneath my feet, who was just screaming and writhing in agony.
And it was really heartbreaking to watch.
And we decided, my friend David and I, at that point, like we that I wasn't going to take part anymore
because me taking part was almost, I guess we were mocking it a bit.
And it was like, isn't this funny?
I get to be part of an exorcism and we realized quite how serious it was.
So that was happening in my head on one side of things.
Like I was starting to realize how serious this is.
And at the same time, I suppose my demeanor was changing and I was taking this serious.
And I suppose asking some of the staff who work with the exorcist
a few difficult questions about money, who's paying, you know, how much money
are they taking from all of these people?
How do they know that God is helping them and all these kinds of things?
And that was getting back to the Padre, who we started to find
didn't want to talk to me anymore.
So we had this really awkward conversation, this situation where I was hanging around
the church, me and my director, David, and he wasn't talking to us, but it was his church.
He didn't want to talk to us.
And this lasted so that I suppose that started to happen after a few days
and it lasted for a good three or four weeks before he eventually, as I'm sure,
will get on to explodes at me.
So yeah, it got frosty.
Yeah, I I've watched the documentary.
I hope people will take the time.
It is on YouTube.
You can go and see this is a really interesting documentary.
How many people did you while you were there for the few weeks?
Did he exercise if I could use the term?
While we were there, there were.
Well, yeah, I suppose it's just a good point you make about the term exercise
because actual exorcism, exorcisms, there were two women.
It was Candela and Natalia, who these Natalia is about 35 years old.
Candela was about 17.
And it was a really tragic case, really, with Candela.
There was also Paula, who was his assistant, who we came to realize had been
exercised and was now sort of working and living with him.
And that's where a lot of the the disagreements are all around Paula and
her relationship with the Padre, as things get a bit heated.
But there were also countless people in his church services and his mass and
things like that, who he would spritz with water, who would start sort of
speaking in tongues or falling on the floor and demons would be expelled.
So these would be sort of mini exorcisms.
And it was almost like a social contagion thing.
When he did a big mass of thousands of people, everyone was falling on the
floor and writhing around.
So in that sense, hundreds of people.
But in terms of like, OK, we're going to go for the big theatrics here in a
hall with one person that was two different women, Candela and Natalia.
Have you ever seen anybody doing a mass where people just start flopping on
the ground like it's a like it's a Holy Ghost tent reunion?
Well, until I did this documentary, no, I mean, I grew up as a secular Jewish
person, but I went to synagogue, you know, two or three times a year.
And then when it was a bar mitzvah year, so when I was 13, I was there
like every week and, you know, that nothing like that.
But I it was a strange thing.
I always found it strange.
I even when I was 11, 12 years old, we were sort of all chanting in Hebrew,
saying things that none of us understood.
Some people really went for it.
Some didn't.
I have been to Darren Brown, the mentalist or magician.
I went to see him and he got me up on stage and did some sort of tricks
on me and things like that.
And so he's for anyone who doesn't know, he does like an atheist version.
Of what a lot of atheists and preachers of what a lot of a lot of exorcists
and preachers do, he gets people, you know, you're blind.
Now you can see your back hurts.
Now it doesn't.
He can do that and uses a lot of the same skills that exorcists do,
but he makes no claim to divinity or anything like that.
So no, I hadn't seen anything like that apart from, I guess, that documentary
Jesus camp, was it Jesus camp?
Is that what it was called?
Oh, I don't know.
Yeah, it was back in the day.
It was called, I think it's called Jesus camp.
Someone will correct me if it's not that.
And that was loads of kids.
It's a fascinating documentary to watch.
Speaking in tongues, rolling around on the floor, that kind of thing.
There's a lot of social pressure to do it.
But yeah, I mean, it's it's quite something to see.
That was what I was going to ask you.
What do you think?
What do you think the phenomena is that causes these people to want to do this stuff?
Well, so I spoke to someone just recently on my podcast or on my channel,
I should say, Holly Lawrence, who grew up evangelical.
And she remembers one of her first memories was when she was about five years old
and her brother and her were supposed to talk in tongues.
They were sort of being pressured to do that.
And she remembers nothing was nothing was happening to her.
And she said, like, I don't feel like tongues are going to come out of me.
And she was five years old.
She was too honest, almost.
And she remembers her brother sort of looking at her and sort of raising his
eyebrows as if to suggest like, come on, just just do it, just do it.
And it's a strange situation because you've got this dynamic then where the kids
know that these little children who are five or six years old know that this is
not real and that they have to perform it.
And I suppose you do it enough times and you practice it enough times
that by the time you become an adult, you forget that time when you were a child
and you start to really believe in it.
And that's the amazing thing about belief.
I also had recently a guest called AJ Jacobs, who he lived a year like the Old
Testament, and he's an atheist, but he basically so he grew a beard and he did
all the little crazy rules that are in the Old Testament.
There are some really weird ones and a lot of ones about like, don't touch women.
He realized it's also men because you have to find out not only when the woman
was last menstruating, you have to find out when men last, I can't remember what
the word was, it was something like issued seed or something like that.
And if it was, if it was soon, you can't touch the men.
But he said, like he tried praying and this is like a proper, you know, atheist guy.
And he said at first it was nonsense, but the more he did it, he started to sort
of in a strange cognitive dissonance kind of way, start to believe in the praying.
So I think there is something human about the more you do something and if you
really go for it, you really perform something, you can start to believe in it.
So I think that's a big part of it.
And then I think another part of it is just that suggestion.
It's the same thing that happened to me when I went up on stage and Darren Brown,
you're letting everyone down.
There's a show going on.
You've sort of got to do it.
And yeah, cognitive dissonance and placebo and hypnosis is all kicking off
together, I think.
Wow.
It all makes sense why I get a lot of people who are within the faith.
And I'll specifically refer to that as Christianity, who say, Derek,
cry out to God because they want to they're like, I'm obviously in apostate, right?
So they're like, cry out to God, like, no, save these prayers.
This is what you need to do every day for the next 30 days.
You need to do this.
And it's like, like, like psych yourself out into believing because we know you're
wrong. This is pretty much what I feel is going on.
And I think there's going to be some element of what you're talking psychologically
in this exorcist situation.
So there is a even more famous exorcist that has been running around on YouTube.
Capturing Christianity has interviewed him.
He had a pretty viral video about exorcist.
I don't know if you know of that one.
Have you ever heard of?
No.
I'm going to pull that up, actually,
because I would love to get your thoughts as we go along.
I know you don't believe it like I don't believe it.
Let me put exorcism.
He's interviewed him again.
In fact, this particular Christian
literally recently became Catholic.
So he he actually kind of converted over into the Catholic faith.
This is I'm going to pull this guy up here
so that you can actually see this.
We're hanging out with a live crowd.
Hit the like button. Go subscribe to our guest, Andrew Gold.
Please help him get to 100 K.
So in this interview, this is the guy.
This is the oh, I've seen his face.
It's got the Chubby Cheek look going on.
So yeah, I wonder if that's a prerequisite.
It might be.
And he's carrying my last name.
So my last name is this France.
I don't know, FR.
What is this fence?
So anyway, camera interviews, he interviews him.
This one went over a million views.
Wow.
Two years ago.
And I suspect he goes into details about
exorcisms and how these are real.
And I've got some great questions I have.
Correct.
Of course, I'd love to say, hey,
so what is some of the Latin that these demons are speaking through
through these people that are being asked and why can't we film them
actually saying these things, doing these things, like speaking Latin,
whether they kind of exaggerate the miracle that happened behind the door.
You know what I mean?
Anyway, I don't know even though they wouldn't consider that.
It's like it's a supernatural thing.
So this whole exorcism thing, you would say, is kind of this social get
together and they know what to expect in a way, in a way.
Yeah, yeah, I'll just say I'm struggling to hear you a little bit.
And I don't know if it's my speakers or if it's you, my headphones or it's
your microphone has gone a little bit funny, but maybe people in the chat
can let you know. It's just it's just going slightly.
I'm still hearing you fine.
But maybe people people let Derek know, please, if it's if it's him.
If not, then it's just my headphones.
The Latin.
So this is a thing.
I mean, all the things that you ask these people, you know,
have you ever seen levitation have and that the exorcist is telling me, oh,
yeah, the head spins around sometimes and they've levitated off the ground and
all these kinds of things.
And you're like, again, well, why haven't we ever caught that on camera?
Now, one interesting thing is here, I'm imagining, right?
Imagine if I stumbled upon a conversation you and I are having right now and I
were a Christian believer or any kind of religious believer who believed in exorcism.
The way that you and I will have to explain away,
exorcism is actually far more complicated than actually just saying, well,
maybe it was a demon because we're having to say like they're saying, look,
the evidence is right in front of us.
There's a girl screaming on the floor.
She feels better afterwards.
She's got mental health issues and now she doesn't.
All these kinds of things.
And I've got to get now go, OK, I know it looked like that.
But hang on, hear me out a second.
What's really and, you know, and then I have to come up with a really convoluted
explanation and I would say, well, that's life.
Life is really complicated, unfortunately.
We like to believe the easy answers.
We like to believe, you know, but they would say, well,
sometimes, you know, call a spade a spade and that is an exorcism.
This woman is being, you know, we're getting a demon out of her and that's what
it is. So I do have sympathy for people who don't want to,
who do believe in exorcism and who think that we're being difficult because it
does sound like we're being, I mean, how convoluted is that?
I'm saying, no, what's happening is it's suggestion and placebo.
And she thinks she's getting better.
But actually, you know, that stuff seems even more mad than an actual exorcism,
which is, you know, which is a tribute to the amazing ability of the human mind.
Like, wow, that it that it can do that.
But the women that I saw exercise, they did start speaking in like a lower voice.
But I mean, within the sort of the range of the women there, it wasn't like, you know,
but but yeah, this this woman, Candela did start saying, you know,
what was it, leave me or and I don't know, is that supposed to be the demon?
Is that? Now, the interesting thing about exorcism is that it was on the wane.
It was like, you know, it was big, I think 2000 years ago, and then it stopped being big.
It wasn't popular.
And we're talking about something that was unpopular for like 2000 years almost,
you know, a long time of not being popular.
I mean, that's an extraordinary amount of time for something to not be popular.
And then the film, the exorcist came out and then exorcism became huge around the world
again, which is why this exorcist uses all the memorabilia from the film.
What would be interesting is to get a test subject who has never seen what an
exorcism is supposed to look like and see how they react when you start like
throwing water at them and pushing them and shoving them and that kind of that
kind of thing. But, you know, the nature of it is nobody's going to go and get
an exorcism unless they know what an exorcism is.
So we're never going to we're never going to see that.
But yeah, I think I think they are just I guess they're just like picking up on
what they've seen in films and what they're supposed to do.
And somewhere at the back of their minds, it's all coming out, I guess.
It's a really weird thing to watch.
And I say it because I was part I have actual experience, to some degree,
with this suggestion and this group context of
speaking in tongues, rolling around on the floor,
laying on of hands, casting out demons.
We literally would cast out demons.
Now exorcisms know, but we would lay on of hands to cast out evil spirits,
the spirit of lust, the spirit of pride, all of these things.
When I was in a charismatic Christian group and I remember the first time
I went to speak in tongues, I remember not it didn't just come out.
And then they kept like put their hand on my head to thrust me to make me.
And I just finally realized, like, dude, all right, if I want to fit in,
like, I need to start doing something like sound like what I've heard them do.
So I did and I just tried and I started to convince myself and believed
that what I was real, there were times when my friends were being, you know,
roll on the ground and then one of them starts acting like something.
He starts talking like, I mean, like, this is really what they would do.
And later on, we felt great after church.
We're out there enjoying the rest of our day.
The placebo effect didn't really well.
It is more complicated to explain.
However, I do think that's what's going on.
And there is this congestion in the group setting that makes you want to do that.
This is the tricky part, though.
Before we get to the strange relationship that this guy has to the women,
he often exercises or did exercise.
I want to ask you, what did you discover?
Because you went to speak to a medical professional that was down there who was
saying, don't even try in where we live.
You know, Christianity is pretty much all religion.
You don't fuck against it.
It is not like secular in any way and he can get in trouble.
I don't know if you can mention his name or if you can discuss what you discovered.
But did you ask them what this was, what they believe going on here with
exorcisms and then maybe also these poor women who are suffering with mental health?
Like, tell us more about that.
Yeah, sure.
Well, that was I can say his name because he's on the documentary is Dr.
Gareen and Dr. Gareen is he was the head of the Adolescent Warder, you know,
psychiatric wards quite near to where the exorcist was working.
And he happened to be worried.
He didn't happen to be.
It's why we tracked him down in the first place was that he was the doctor of Paula.
Paula was the woman who was exercised,
who now works as the assistant of the Padre, Padre Manuel.
She had in her teenage years spent about nine years or so in the psychiatric ward
living there with schizophrenia, that's what she had.
And that's what the exorcist was supposedly getting rid of.
That's very common.
It tends to be schizophrenia, but also things like bulimia, anorexia.
OCD is a very typical one.
OCD has a fascinating relationship with extreme religion anyway.
I find that really interesting.
I mean, just again, going back to my friend who became, you know,
I suppose an orthodox Jew in a sense for a year.
That it's so much OCD and I suffered with OCD.
I had to go to therapy for it.
So I really relate to that.
I can see the obsessive compulsive parts of religion.
If I do this enough times, if I do it enough times, things will be OK.
Things are going to be OK.
Now, that's why OCD is one of the many mental health issues that get
treated apparently by exorcism and the exorcist himself is very cautious about
this, because obviously he knows that people are going to attack him and say,
hey, these people should see doctors.
So firstly, he always says, go and see the doctors and come here.
Right. That's his sort of get out of jail free card.
He also says something like if you're hearing voices from outside,
if you're hearing voices from inside, then it's schizophrenia.
And if they're from outside, then it's a demon or vice versa.
I can never remember which way round he said that.
And it's like, if you're hearing voices, it's inside anyway, voices of voices.
So that's what he says is going on.
Now, Dr.
Gareen, who treated these people, he just says, look,
adolescents in particular is a really, really tricky time, particularly around
mental health. And I'm sure anyone listening to this who has children or who
remembers their own time or grandchildren or nephews and nieces, whatever it might be,
will probably relate to this.
I mean, I can think of any young people I know in my life, they're all going through
something. I remember I was going through something that's not to belittle it.
It's not to suggest like, oh, everybody grows out of mental health issues because
but sometimes they do.
And that's the thing.
Some some types of mental health issues.
This is what Dr.
Gareen said to me, people do sort of grow out of them.
Again, relate to my own experience with that.
So many people can, you get older, you start to see things differently.
You have a different experience.
And that's what you hope anyway, because some people can't just grow out of it.
You know, you can't you can't do that.
And so what Exorcism offers is a placebo.
And it's quite similar to what they used to have.
There was this in the seventies, something called Primal Scream therapy
and is a great band called Primal Scream as well that some people might know.
And Primal Scream therapy was adopted by John Lennon
and Yoko Ono and they did a lot of like screaming and stuff.
And you scream out your childhood angst.
That was the idea.
And John Lennon obviously had a lot of childhood angst to get out.
And there was a famous doctor.
I can't ever remember his name who really pushed the Primal Scream stuff.
And it all got debunked years later.
But the and the reason was because Primal Scream is a great way of sort of having
this placebo effect of like, get everything out.
But it doesn't help you to do what is
essential in therapy, which is to reframe your your issues, to look at things
differently, to learn something new about yourself.
All it does is that initial placebo shock.
Now, if you combine Primal Scream with years of therapy, there's some
suggestion that it might work.
So if you combine that sort of getting it all out with, you know,
and how do you feel about your parents or what is the what are the issues you're
going through, then it can help with some mental health issues.
Now, Exorcism is just Primal Scream.
You're just getting things out.
It's not going to have a long term help, but it will have that kind of placebo
effect, the initial help, which could last a few hours or weeks or it could last
a year or so. It's unlikely to last any longer than that.
And we found that when I went back a year later to speak to the women who had
been exercised, who had gotten much better initially, but I went back a year later
and they were back to square one,
trying to find other exorcists and other magical ways of curing themselves,
because it's much easier than actually sitting down and doing the work of therapy.
And some of them don't have access to therapy.
And, you know, if you happen to be at the end of that adolescent time period,
where maybe in a year you were going to be better anyway, you were going to grow
out of that kind of childhood anxiety anyway.
And you go through Exorcism when you're 17, let's say, it's a great age to do that.
Six months, you feel better because you think, OK, I can handle this.
It might be that you just never regress and you get over it.
And then you've got to ask yourself the question, maybe Exorcism was worth it.
And that was the interesting thing for me,
because I went into this thinking, oh, this is also stupid and ridiculous.
But if it helps some people, then there's something in it.
It's also dangerous for other people.
But, you know, so I'm not I'm not walking around saying get an Exorcism.
I'm just saying that there are other sides to it and it's it's interesting.
And that's a very gray area, right?
So as someone who doesn't believe there's really any demons,
really any supernatural things going on, in some sense, it could psychologically
help for a temporary being or temporary time.
When I found interesting in what you were saying,
I thought of psychedelics for a moment here.
This is a little off topic, but it makes me think of people who suffer
with the fear of death or they're dying, their mental health is really, really bad.
They'll go through and trip, they'll do some psychedelics.
And then their fear goes away for an extended period of time.
And typically what they'll do is they describe it as oftentimes it can go for a year.
I mean, that would be like half a year to a year is really like that cut off point
before stuff can start creeping back in.
Now, it just depends on the person, but that is kind of the general time limit
that they put on that psychedelic experience, which helps people to evaluate.
I am guilty. I have done it many times in my life.
And I know how internal you are thinking.
Like there's I don't know how to describe it other than there is extreme
depth to the thinking that you're observing within yourself when you do this.
And so it makes you kind of wonder if there's something connected between the
experience of what's happening when you're putting yourself in.
I'll call it a trance like state or a shocking type state where you're just
someone's yelling in your face who keeps repeating to the point of hypnotism.
And you're just you're giving them what they want.
Eventually you're you're you're putting yourself into a state of shock that might
be causing something similar to what we're seeing happen with psychedelics in the
brain and things. I don't know this.
It makes me think there might be some overlap.
Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that's a great point.
And I think it's I think it's similar to primal scream as well.
I think that's why John Lennon probably did a lot of both of those things,
because he was also into psychedelics.
It's an altered state of mind.
And that's what exorcism is doing as well.
You're getting put into an altered state of mind.
It's it is in a sense it is reframing how you look at life and how you look at
the things that are happening to you. And that's what therapy does.
The issue is with exorcism and psychedelics is that it's not ethical to do it on a
grand scale, I think, because you don't know how each individual is going to react.
So I've tried psychedelics and had a terrible time, awful time.
And that's partly because I'm quite an anxious person and I didn't really let
myself enjoy it. That was the funny thing.
So I remember just spending like six hours of going like, I'm fine and like tense.
And then I finally let myself sort of and I had an I had like an hour of like,
oh, oh, oh, and then back to being tense again, because I'm so tense.
But but it can obviously do wonders.
And so again, exorcism, I mean, I can't remember who it was.
Someone did die during during an exorcism.
So these are all things that we don't know enough about.
We don't know enough about the brain placebo.
Again, it's an altered state of mind.
You are told you've taken a thing, right?
And the amazing thing is like so Parkinson's, people with Parkinson's who take
sugar pills, you can actually see the brain producing different chemicals and
things when they've taken a sugar pill that subdues the effects of Parkinson's,
right? You can actually see that on scans.
That's extraordinary.
And the even more extraordinary thing is even when those patients are told that
they have taken a sugar pill, it still works.
It still produces like dopamine and stuff in the brain that helps with the
Parkinson's. So that's what we're dealing with.
We're dealing with this incredible, incredible organ in our minds,
in our heads that we don't know enough about.
So I don't know if I'd suggest exorcism.
I have no idea about the long term and short term effects of psychedelics,
but I can definitely see how both of those things can alter a state of mind to
a point that people feel like or even have recovered from certain kinds of mental issues.
So this Padre here is making money doing what he's doing.
I'm not saying any look, I believe that people are worth, you know,
if what they do brings value, they work to try and make a living.
That's fine. Do you think in the in some ethical sense,
do you think he's ripping people off?
Did you find out how much he's charging to do these exorcisms?
Like, do you have any idea about that and what's going on with that part of his business?
Yeah, he's smart. He's really smart.
So this is a clever, clever guy we're dealing with.
And I think often with these kinds of people, you are dealing with clever people.
It's a mix. You get someone who's really clever and then has no scruples,
you know, no moral issues, then you've got, you know, a potentially dangerous person.
And I think that's where he's probably at.
The exorcisms are free.
That's the point. That's that's the genius of it.
You know, you want an exorcism, come and get it for free.
Then you pass the gift shop on your way out.
You know, that's the idea.
So if you're already in a situation where you feel so indebted to a person,
firstly, because you think he saved your life and he's done all these things,
he's literally done God's work for you and gotten rid of the devil for you.
And then also like the fact that you've already reacted
basically hypnotically to his demands, you know, his commands.
What he's commanded you to do, you have been doing, you are, you know,
he pushes one way, you go, ah, and you go that way.
He pushes another way, you go that way.
He sprays you with something.
You say the Lord, you know, you say mad stuff.
Then when, you know, you're so suggestible at that point,
you go through the gift shop and it's all like just help help the church with a
little bit of this, a little bit of that.
And that is not cheap.
That is, we're talking like I can't remember exactly how much it was,
but basically they would sell these little bits of, say, olive oil, right?
And it is just olive oil that he has.
He says he's blessed and we're talking about a tiny, tiny amount, like a little bit
of olive oil and a little plastic, whatever.
And that was like $12 or whatever.
In Argentina, that was a lot of money, especially in this place.
We're talking about, this is not the city center of Buenos Aires.
We're talking about an hour outside in a really impoverished area.
So people was, you know, $12 to them is like, you know, $200 to us.
And that's what they are spending when they've got no money, nothing.
They've given up hope.
Their destitute, their kids is, is acting out in all sorts of ways.
They don't know what to do.
They're desperate and they're buying these little bits of olive oil.
And the olive oil does things like, apparently, you know, it's marketed as
preventing breast cancer, for example.
So then you've got people who potentially are not getting checkups.
They're spending all their money on this olive oil.
I don't know if they're rubbing it on themselves or using it in their food or what.
But they're spending a lot of money on that kind of thing.
And then there are just donations.
And you should see the masses that he has.
When he has a mass each month, the congregate, it is, you know,
they have to open up the church nave.
It's his own church.
He's a Lutheran, I should say, by the way, which is unusual.
It's typically a Catholic thing, exorcism.
I think he's just made up, you know, he's a lone ranger.
And he's just said, this is what I am.
I think he quite likes the sort of German look, you know, the exorcist and the
Lutheran thing. I think he quite likes that.
And they open up like the gates of the nave into the street and thousands and
thousands of people are there, police have to cordon off the streets.
It is just huge and people are just falling all over the place.
They're all so suggestible.
They're all just doing everything he asked and they're all donating money.
So this is what we ended up with without, you know,
spoiling in case you want to ask later, you know, now.
But we end up with these pictures of him just gallivanting around like the holidays
he takes are just like people from where he is can't usually afford that.
So he's, you know, he's taken a lot of money.
Wow. That is interesting.
There's a lot here.
So you were there when they were celebrating the mass for the month, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Wow. Were you at any time before the scary situation happens and we're going to get
to that, were you at any time at fear of your life or was that mainly the time
when things started to get really like you didn't know what was going to happen?
Before the scary stuff that we're going to get on to, I don't think I feared for my life.
I feared watching the exorcisms that scared the hell out of me.
As I was saying before, like I was
I'm not like you're supposed to be when you're a journalist like this,
like this intrepid, brave, courageous guy and that is so far from what I am.
But you sort of feel different when there's a camera on you, your friend points
a camera in your face and you're like, OK, I'm doing this.
I'm you know, you feel a bit braver.
But seeing someone at my feet screaming like that really I turned pale from it.
I just went white and then and then I never believed in anything paranormal.
And that was difficult for me as a documentary maker because the idea is to go in
without your mind made up, you know, you're supposed to be able to see both sides of
everything and hey, you know, maybe I'll have my mind changed.
So I had this fight in my head all the time of like, come on, you're supposed
to be a neutral observer.
And then the other part of me is going, this is ridiculous.
There's no devil inside these people.
So it was really hard to get into that space and to try and make myself like feel
how it would feel to believe and that kind of thing, to be a neutral observer.
And and I guess I was scared as well, just because it was quite an impoverished
place out in the middle of nowhere, we had to get a train and take all the equipment.
The equipment would just borrowed from friends or from places, but it's expensive
stuff and it was quite a dodgy area.
That was a bit scary and to be there at night and to be on the streets.
That that was a bit scary, but nothing paranormal scared me at any point.
OK, now we're going to get to the scary stuff and combine it with a little bit
of what you discovered, the relationship may have been and how that plays into this.
So in your documentary that you were part of that you documented, of course,
and that BBC ends up publishing,
you talk about this moment where you really believe that you were going to be
killed or or they were probably going to kill you.
That's a pretty those some pretty bold words.
I've been in some tough situations my life.
Fight on Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, where I got jumped during spring break.
Bunch of people.
I mean, I didn't know if I was going to make it out.
It was that bad.
And but in your situation, you're not in America.
You're not in somewhere where you like the police are coming.
They're on their way.
Like, you know, we're going to be able to make it out.
Who knows if the police are in on it with the Padre?
Who knows? So what happened that got him and the people at this
church,
I guess you say their ears raised toward you.
And is there anything going on between him and this girl that he once exercised
that you found out?
Yeah, so this is this is it.
And this is where I've learned a lot of lessons, I think, as well, just about
humanity and stuff. I mean, and this is going to sound so naive, but I was naive.
And it was a few years ago.
And I'd like to hope that part of the charm of the film and my style is the
naivety, you know, that I don't know.
It's just it's it's raw and immediate and things are really happening.
And I don't know what I'm doing necessarily.
But we noticed the longer I stayed there, this that this this woman,
Paula, who was about 21 years old, who had been there for quite some years,
who had schizophrenia when she was younger, was in a psychiatric ward for her
teenage years, her parents lived in another country.
She was alone in Buenos Aires.
And after being exercised by the Padre, who was in his mid fifties, she seemed to
become very, very close with him and become his assistant and seemed to live
upstairs in the church with him, which is all a bit weird.
And look, it's not illegal for a man in his mid fifties to be sexually involved.
If that is the case, if that's what was happening with a 21 year old woman,
but she'd been there for a few years already.
And whether it's legal or not, it's certainly not appropriate and certainly
not what his congregation donating to him would have expected him to be doing
with a woman so vulnerable, who'd been living in a psychiatric ward that he
exercised. So that started to sort of play in our minds.
Me and David.
And we also noticed that the other, the clergy appeared a little bit jealous.
And often it was off camera, little bits and pieces said to us, just a little bit
of like a roll of the eyes, you know, when, when the Padre had walked off just
with her and just taken power and not the rest of the clergy who were true
believers and really just seemed to love and fear him.
He, you know, we caught him a few times, like berating some of them.
They were just so submissive and they would sort of hang their heads.
And it was really quite sad, I suppose.
So when I had interviews with some of the clergy, I tried to very subtly ask
a few questions. Hey, what's the deal with Padre and the Padre and Paula?
What's what's going on there?
They seem very close and they just made me even more confident about this
because they would say like, well, they're always together and they're sort
of whisper things and they'd make faces and they seem to be like on our side.
So this is where I was naive because I just kept asking those questions
and because I felt confident.
I was like, oh, God, they're on our side.
They're really against the Padre.
But obviously what really happens is they later think about it again and they
think, oh, this is an opportunity to get in with him, to replace her as his
number one or whatever.
So they go and tell him little bits and pieces.
There was this situation that happened with a journalist.
The Padre has close links with, as you point out, I think the police,
but also the journalists and in particular, one journalist called Marco
Marco Bustamante, who works at a tabloid newspaper in Buenos Aires.
And so Marco would go weekly or almost every day up to the church,
travel out there to find out what was going on and what's the latest news
and hit report on it.
And he was like the number one reporter for the Exorcist to sort of show
the world what he was doing each day.
I happened to find him at the church.
This was right before one of these big masses that the Exorcist does.
And Marco said to me, you know, it was just a normal chat.
And he was just saying, oh, we're planning to have a multiple Exorcism
with loads of people and all that stuff.
And he said, we as if he's in cahoots with the Exorcist.
So it was all a bit weird, but it was fine.
Now, later on, we're about to attend this mass and I suddenly get called
backstage and we're waiting and waiting.
There were thousands and thousands of people waiting for the Padre to come out
on stage and I'm called backstage.
So I go backstage.
He says, oh, hi, Andrew.
Right. You've been interviewing me.
It's my turn to interview you.
Just come in this room.
So I'm like, OK, and then he wouldn't let my cameraman David in the room.
So at that point, we're like, OK, this is a bit scary.
What's going on here?
And it was midnight out in the middle of nowhere.
And again, as you pointed out, I mean, this was not a documentary
the BBC had commissioned.
We didn't have bodyguards or security or anybody who even knew we were there.
This was like, we were like cowboys here.
This was my friend David playing and just fly down here to try and make something happen.
Yeah. Well, yeah.
Well, actually, we've been living in Argentina.
I've been living there for a few years.
So but but David did come out not necessarily for that.
He wanted to come South America anyway.
And I'd spoken to him about the film and he was like, oh, you know what?
I'm going to come and live out there for a few months as well and see, you know,
that kind of thing.
But but yeah, exactly as you say, just the two of us just, hey,
let's do this, borrow equipment, whatever.
So no one knew where we were.
It was incredibly dangerous looking back.
It was insane out, you know, really far from the city.
And this is South America, you know, not that there's necessarily more
dangerous South America than anywhere else, but anywhere else out in the middle
of nowhere at midnight, wouldn't let David in the room.
We did have another guy with us who was like an 18 year old intern,
a local journalist who said he'd like to come and help hold stuff and whatever.
So he was outside with David while I was in this little room.
And then he comes up to me and he just whispers like he's in a sort of
like he's in a horror movie or whatever.
And he just goes, why have you been asking people in the congregation
about my relationship with Paula and my heart sunk?
Because I thought that is the one thing I didn't realize the others had been
telling him that. Of course they had. Of course they had.
But I just didn't realize and my heart sunk.
And I thought, we're done for where we are done for because he's got
a congregation of tens of thousands of people or at least thousands outside
who would do his bidding at the drop of a hat.
You know, they would they would have no problem doing whatever he asked of them.
Midnight, no one knows where we are.
And he was in this room with like four or five of his cronies.
They had big sticks and things.
And I thought that was the end and my legs shook.
I couldn't move my legs.
And I was, you know, just so scared and so worried.
And I just said, well, no, I haven't.
And then I said, I haven't asked much about it.
I just said, you know, and then this guy, Marco, the journalist
who I'd interviewed from this big newspaper, he steps forward
from the shadows in this little room and he says, yeah, you asked me
why why they kiss on the lips.
And I said, no, I didn't because I'd never I never asked that.
And I'd never even seen that either.
I didn't I didn't know that was a thing, which apparently Marco must have
either invented or he'd seen it himself.
And it was his way of bringing it up.
So here I am now in this room, just going, I promise I didn't I didn't ask that.
I didn't even know that you do kiss on the lips.
Do you? I don't maybe you don't.
I don't know, like just I just want to get out of here.
And he was like, not until we finished our interrogation,
he was like really enjoying being like a movie boss, you know.
And he just pushed and pushed and he screamed at me
and David and this guy Demian tried to get in the room for me to try
and he just slams the door shut.
Not this was like an hour in the in the documentary.
We've got it all because I had my microphone on my lapel,
which I didn't even realize at the time because I was so scared.
He screams and screams and eventually he just goes,
you know what, I've got better things to do.
I've got, you know, because his people had been waiting for an hour for him.
So eventually he does let me out, screams a bit more,
some stuff about the Falklands and then goes and does his mass.
And David and I, we go and escape and we can hear him in his mass going,
the devil is in the house today and we must destroy him.
And we're just like, we've got to get out.
We've got to get out.
And we start we're climbing over bodies at this point
because people are splayed across the floor in the corridors,
in the halls and we're climbing over everyone and eventually we get out.
And then it's like, OK, now we've got all this equipment.
It's one in the morning and we need to find a way to get home
to Buenos Aires because, you know, we could get robbed.
So even that was scary then after that.
And it was just, yeah, it was a horrifying, horrifying time, but we survived it.
Have you discovered since then and I get it.
Like, I get the whole scenario.
And for those who haven't seen the documentary, it is on YouTube, isn't it?
The whole thing? Yeah, you just type like my name and exorcism.
It's on the BBC's channel.
It's also Professor Dave put up the same thing.
It's another version of it, so it's on his channel as well.
Right. So check it out.
If you haven't watched it, it's worth watching.
Have you found out anything that that he is in a relationship with this girl
and they were really actively in some way.
There's probably some sexual stuff going on.
Well, I can't confirm the sexual stuff
because I guess we'd have to either hear it.
The only way to know that would be to hear directly from her or him
or to like put a camera in their room or whatever it might be.
But I think we've got as close as we can get.
It just seems it just, you know, and I don't want to be that kind of journalist
who's like making presumptions and stuff.
The thing is, after as we found all these pictures that they were putting up
where they were going to like, they went on holidays together.
And again, this was my point earlier about the money they were using in the church.
They were taking these holidays like around Spain
and he kept calling it like research trips
because he was meeting other exorcists in Spain and putting up pictures of that.
There's all these like really flirty pictures of like
the Padre with these kisses like lipstick all over his face
and sunbathing with Paula and the two of them just, you know,
shacking up in hotels, basically.
So we got all that stuff.
And there was also after the big fight, so to speak, in this room,
some of the clergy was sort of saying to me, like, come on,
it's a sign of affection, the kissing.
And I was like, I didn't say they kissed and they were just going like, no,
but when they do, you know, it's a sign of affection.
It's nothing more than.
So all the suggestions seem to point towards a relationship going on.
Wow. I wonder how many he's had in the years of doing what he does.
Makes me wonder, it really does.
Have you discovered anything since doing that documentary
that you didn't know during the documentary that you guys have,
I guess, in retrospect, hindsight's 2020 or new informations come out?
Yeah, well, some new information, actually, just about a month ago,
somebody on Instagram, some it's been a few years now,
but someone on Instagram messaged me and just said, hey,
you know about Padre Manuel, right?
And I was like, well, yeah, I did this documentary.
And usually those are people who are religious and they want like, you know,
oh, great, can you help me get an exorcism or whatever?
I get a lot of that.
But this woman said she's living in Spain, she's Spanish.
So now we're talking Spain, not Argentina, other side of the world.
And Padre Manuel is there, apparently.
And he told her that his job is he finds missing persons.
That's his job.
And she's worried about whether or not to go with him.
She's deciding whether or not to sort of part with her money.
She didn't say how much, but it could be it could be that he's
charging people loads of money to be like a missing persons detective.
Because the implication being that he can know some spiritual way
about where people are.
So that's a really recent update and it appears and that changes,
I think, how I think of him, because I thought at first, OK,
well, maybe he really believes in his own powers.
And now I think, well, which is it, mate?
You know, are you an exorcist who does that?
Or are you a missing persons thing?
Or, you know, I think he's it points more towards him being a phony
rather than someone who believes in himself, but is misguided, you know?
Wow. Yeah.
That those would be true signs to me as well of like someone who's
trying to make money.
I mean, whatever way possible, coming up with other things.
I wonder where you learn that trick from.
It's interesting.
Yeah, Andrew, I really, really appreciate this because there's so much
that you like the documentary speaks for itself and it takes you through the journey.
But I really wanted to get in your own words, your experience,
your what you went through.
People are more than welcome to ask questions.
Send a super chat if you want to ask your questions to Andrew.
Andrew, is there anything we've left out?
Maybe you'd want to comment about anything to do with this documentary.
Hmm. What else was there?
What happened in that documentary?
It was just it was just like just quite an extraordinary experience, really.
That's that's all.
It's it's something that changed changed my life.
And I guess the intrigue for me was the fact that like people did get better.
You know, they did they did improve.
And that's really interesting.
And that takes us into all sorts of questions about the brain
and whether it's right that these people do it.
Another point to make is that this doctor who had had the psychiatric
the psychiatric ward, he said that this what happened to Paula,
the schizophrenia woman of schizophrenia was taken from him.
That happens all the time.
He said it's happening all the time, particularly around South America,
where all kinds of pastors and magic people are basically convincing
adolescents, particularly once they turn 18, to leave psychiatric care
and and go with them.
And it's really quite insidious.
Now, you've done other documentaries or at least other
yeah, documentaries.
What are some of the other ones you've done?
OK, so I have.
So before the Exorcism one, my first ever
documentaries, and you're right, they're short.
So they're mini documentaries, but talking 10 minutes long.
I went to search for UFOs, again, not really believing and find any.
We're not talking about the UFOs that the US Navy are releasing pictures of.
We're talking about like mystical, new age, spiritual, underground
UFOs that I personally don't believe in.
I guess underground UFOs isn't oxymoron because they wouldn't be flying objects
that be, you know, but aliens that live under the ground.
So I went and did that in in a town in Argentina again,
where everybody believes in aliens because something happened in the 80s
where like some trees were burnt and everybody believed that that was
because of aliens and now there's like a museum and all sorts of crazy stuff
going on there.
I did videos about infidelity in Argentina again, because I was just
in South America for quite some time and or in what in Germany.
And I won't use the word.
But when I was I was in Germany as a word, I shouldn't use on YouTube.
But for for for men who commit crimes against children,
don't want to get you demonetized or whatever.
But I was looking to them for like a year or so.
And I made an audio project for that, which won an award last year.
And I'm thinking of writing a book about it at the moment.
So I was hanging out with like those bad people for some time, trying to find
out, you know, more about them.
Wow. So what projects are you working on now?
I wonder, and I want to say one thing as you're getting into this,
man, you've really taken a magnifying glass to Scientology recently.
And in fact, your recent video that you did with Chris Shelton got some attention.
And that was really going viral.
So you're planning on anything specific with Scientology?
Yeah, I'm thinking about it.
I mean, so at the moment, so the only project aside from YouTube and working
on is I'm writing a book about about the psychology of secrets.
What happens when you keep secrets?
What happens to your body and mind?
Why we reveal them and all those kinds of things.
And that the heart of that is is cults, you know, because that's I mean,
secrets is at the heart of cults.
That's what my channel is really about on the edge with Andrew God is on the edge
of life, the fringes, the fringes and the cults and the weird and the strange
and those kinds of things.
And I've always been told that with YouTube, this was initially an audio podcast.
What I do.
And I just put the videos up on YouTube.
We didn't really give them second thought until a few months ago.
And I've always been told that it's like YouTube sort of decides what's going
to be your thing.
So some people will be like a makeup artist, but but then they'll do one
video that's about fitness and it will just go off the charts.
And it's like, well, now I'm a fitness person.
That's what I do.
And so for me, it was like I was so interested in every religion and cult
and just different way of being.
So there's loads of stuff I've done about whether it be, you know, ex-Muslims
on the show or ex-hacidic Jews or Mormons and all those kinds of things
or Nixxiom and Scientology, more culty aspects.
And then the Scientology one just they just kicked off the Scientology stuff.
And it's a weird one because I am fascinated by it.
It's not necessarily the one I'm more fascinated than any of the other ones.
But it really, really does well on my channel for some reason.
People really resonated with it.
It's a weird one because Scientology then on other people's channels doesn't
do as well, but then other things does and doesn't on my channel.
It's just the way YouTube works, I guess.
But yeah, now because it's done so well, because the viewers are asking for it.
They want it.
I'm just pumping out like more and more about Scientology.
So I've interviewed some of the big people.
So obviously Chris Shelton and Aaron Smith-Levin, but then Mike Rinder,
who was one of the top, top, top guys he was on to talk about Scientology.
And I couldn't believe it.
You know, I heard I just had them as like random episodes, you know,
some time ago, Scientology, blah, blah, blah.
Now, because it's gotten big, I've really looked into it and it is mind blowing.
It is.
And some of the stuff about Tom Cruise, I think if aliens came down today
and looked at our world, looked at our life and they saw what's the strangest thing.
It might be that one of the most famous movie stars in the world
basically heads up a cult and he's basically the face of it.
It is dwindling.
They've only got 20 to 30,000 people, apparently.
Now, members, it was much bigger.
It's getting smaller, but a huge part of the fact that it still exists
is down to his face, is him.
And he is so high up and you start to learn things about him.
And I enjoyed his movies, but now I'm looking at him and I'm going, OK,
so Scientology found a girlfriend for him, right?
They had to like hold a competition finding a girlfriend for him.
They found someone called Nazanin Bonyadi, who was an actress.
This was just before Katie Holmes and she said stuff to him.
So there's a couple of things that happened.
Firstly, she couldn't always understand what David
miscavaged the leader was saying, because apparently he doesn't speak very clearly.
So she was just like, oh, excuse me.
And secondly, she said to Tom Cruise when Tom Cruise won some sort of alien
award in Scientology, she said, very well done.
This is a Scientology thing that you say to people, very well done.
But apparently you don't say it to people who outrank you.
You say it to people below you, I suppose,
that's seen as patronizing or whatever.
So she was then sent to clean bathrooms with toothbrushes.
I mean, this is so when you say a lot of people say about Tom Cruise,
like, oh, I'll leave him alone.
Everyone's got their belief system.
Everyone's got their it's like, no, no, very few people in the world
are sending women who have been handpicked by a cult to be your girlfriend
to clean bathrooms with toothbrushes.
And the more you look into it, my word, there is some mad stuff going on there.
So yeah, it's a fascinating one, Scientology.
Yeah, they're the one of the girls who pretty much lived on a ship.
They've got cases right now open.
I mean, there's man, I've been poking into this as well for a while.
And it's really like, holy smokes, this is definitely insanity.
I mean, this is crazy.
And I hope more people get aware of it and subscribe, check out your channel,
of course, go and follow you and keep up with what you're doing.
And in fact, I think you and me have a lot in common in the way that we view
the world and we're trying to, like, look at things using a scientific method,
like what makes the most sense and then work out from there.
Some things we just don't have answers to.
But at the end of the day, we're not going to pretend we do have the answer.
So Mr. Morpheus, thank you for the super chat.
He was saying this when the when you were talking about the exorcist
casting out the devil or the evil spirits and whatnot, and he was saying,
mind your mind or your mind is mine.
Oh, I like that.
That's interesting, because it's also now I'm remembering what she did say.
And it was sounded more similar to that.
She she was saying this was Candela, the 17 year old who had bulimia
and anorexia and stuff, and she was being exercised to cure her of those things.
She started saying she sort of started laughing.
But this was 20 minutes in.
I forgot to say some of this.
This was 20 minutes in, so it was like 20 minutes of working her,
of pushing her, spraying her in the face, shouting fire and brimstone things
in her ears. And I thought it wasn't going to work the first time.
I was like, oh, my God, he's got us here.
He thinks it's the BBC is very excited and his exorcism isn't going to work.
But I should have known better because it always works.
It always works, which is the most amazing thing.
And she started laughing eventually and it was really scary.
And I was looking at her sort of from behind her head.
So I was like behind us of that laugh, that sort of upside down smile.
And then she says she starts going, she's mine, she's mine.
And I was like, oh, you know, that scared the heck out of me.
So mind your mind or your mind is mine.
I thought maybe they've seen the documentary
because it's quite similar to what she says.
I I know exactly what you mean.
My friend did this. I won't name him.
I don't want to put him on the spot in case anyone investigated and found out.
Hey, I know who your friend is.
I found out who we were at a house church.
And it's a different approach the way that we got to that state of mind.
It wasn't through someone commanding or being over you or forcing.
It was through listening to worship music in the church.
And if you listen to it long enough and repeat yourself,
repeating this music and it goes high and low.
And you get to this hypnotic state
where you're literally believing you're in the presence of God.
And the next thing you know, you're on the ground and you're crying
about something you did last Wednesday when you looked at a girl.
You know, whatever it might be.
Next thing you know, you're like in this state where you're suggestible
and like you you don't care like you're almost in a subconscious type of state
rather than consciously seeing and being a oh, I'm worried about how this is
going to make me look if I sound like this or act like this.
And he he started doing the, you know, the
started like grunting it, right?
Then he's like, oh, my God, I will not I will not leave.
And then everybody gives him attention.
Next thing you know, everybody's over there like, hey, in the name of Jesus,
get out in the name of Jesus, you have no power here.
Like we're over here, like all of us are like teaming up.
Like we're going to get this thing out of you, man.
And I mean, really, this was real.
I know it sounds funny the way that I'm actually describing this,
but we were really convinced that we were participating and casting out
this evil spirit and he even said after like, yeah, that was real.
Like I really so, you know, there's a sense of like a hypnotic state
where I could imagine her starting to be like.
And you're like, what the heck is this?
But it's kind of like you go into this state of mind where you don't really care.
And I like the state statement to say, mind your mind.
This is also why when people are like go and pray for 30 days
and like put yourself into a position and try to force yourself
to convince yourself that God is real, this and that do this.
It's like if I did that with Buddhism,
if I did that with Hinduism, if I did this with, you know,
any type of ism out there, who knows?
What if I end up becoming suggestible to the point
where I actually start practicing that?
Does it validate it is true?
No, it just appeases you, the person who is a believer in that
and it makes you satisfied that you're like, oh, finally, he's one of us
and it's tribalism and I'm not, you know, not going that route.
So well, those those isms, as you say, I think that's a really good point
because that that would extend to the political as well.
That could be Nazism.
That could be some sort of Bolshevik ism on the left or the right or whatever.
You know, it's that way.
I it reminds me of conspiracy theories as well, why we believe in them.
And I had Michael Shermer on as a guest recently, who's like the top,
you know, conspiracy guy guy and he he was saying like the main one
of the main reasons we believe one of them is that tribal thing.
You know, you feel like my tribe believes this and it, you know,
it's against your tribe.
But the other is like, it's the it's scarier to think like, like believing
that there are loads of scary people in charge who are doing horrible things to
us is less scary than believing nobody's in charge and nobody knows what they're doing.
And I think that can extend to religion as well.
Like the idea of like, OK, it's scary, like the devil and Satan and stuff like that.
But what's even scarier is like, actually, we're just like bits of nothing
and we're just going to float away and die one day.
That's even scarier.
But the idea that you and your friends there, like your friends,
you had like a purpose, it was like, we're going to fight against this devil.
And yes, it may be scary, but that's nowhere near as scary.
Like that might have felt scary in the moment, particularly for your friend
who was like overcome by it.
But even scarier would be if you sat him down and said, like, actually,
none of that exists.
Like that is really scary.
And unfortunately, it might be true.
Well, that's yeah, yeah, yeah.
I get what you mean, loneliness or imagining that there isn't that what we've
created, that this overarching purpose must be there to find out that really
that may not be there is scary.
It's almost like discovering you don't have parents anymore.
Imagine being a child, you don't have protectors.
It's a big, scary world that you're in and you don't have people to protect you.
We need that safety net.
And I think God plays a significant role in people's minds,
both on the fear of death and, of course, life itself.
Thank you so much for that super chat.
Chindi, thank you for the super chat.
Good to see you here.
Just wanted to say thanks for bringing Andrew.
I love his research.
Andrew, he does he does do some work on Scientology as well.
Do you think exorcism are abusive of people's conditions?
Oh, thank you, Chindi.
Thank you for the for the lovely kind words.
Yes, yes, absolutely, absolutely.
So this this was it.
This this girl girl, I say, because she was 17.
Candela, she, you know, she had tried to do a horrible fit.
Again, I'm being careful or mindful of the YouTuber, you know,
how they are with with certain things you can say and can't say.
But she was doing certain things to herself in the school bathrooms
and had to be taken home a few times.
She was really in a bad way.
She had all sorts of eating conditions.
She was joining these websites and things like that.
On the one hand, exorcism at least made her feel better for a few months.
She should really have been seeing a therapist, though.
And this is the thing like that's not that doesn't answer everything.
Therapy and psychiatric psychiatric psychiatric care.
I don't want to sound like a Scientologist because I know they're the
end for them. Psychiatry is the enemy.
And it shouldn't be the enemy.
I think that's the best thing we have, but the best thing we have
doesn't always work.
I mean, again, everybody watching will know some people
who might have seen a psychiatrist or a therapist.
And years and years later are still seeing those people because it's not a cure.
It's not a it doesn't cure you in a particular short amount of time.
Whereas what the exorcist is offering is like, yeah, give me one hour.
I'll fix you. I'll fix, you know, we should always be mindful
not only of our own minds, but we should be mindful of all sorts of, you know,
people who tell us they can cure us of anything within a minute.
I've had the same thing with like
osteopaths and chiropractors and stuff.
They're doing fantastic work, a lot of them.
But when they say to you like, you know, I had one recently who just did
that thing where they clipped your neck, like he didn't tell me
he was going to do it and he just said like, mm-hmm.
And then like that with my neck.
I was like, ah, ah, but he was like, you're going to be fine now.
And I was like, what, forever?
He was like, yeah, you're fine.
You're better.
And like, obviously, there's some placebo involved in that.
Like if I believe I'm fine, but actually, you know, I don't believe in that stuff.
And placebo doesn't seem to work very well on me.
And within an hour, I was back in pain again.
I think the exorcist, yeah, just to answer Chindi's question again,
yeah, is taking advantage of these people with those kinds of conditions.
And it's a very sad state of affairs.
Minding the question here, mentioning Scientology.
Do you find it ironic that in a sense, the Padres in competition with psychiatry,
with the medical field, and that Scientology itself's complete mythos,
it's science fiction mythos, has Xenu and the ancient aliens
that were really psychiatrists, right?
And so isn't it weird that these cults like seem to be in competition
or oppose the demonic side of psychiatry?
Like, don't go to medical professionals.
Don't. I mean, in this case, it seems like he's trying to sound like,
hey, look, go to both, go to both.
But make sure you do come to me, though, because, like,
don't forget about Padre over here.
Well, this what it reminds me of, I've got a friend who wanted to start up
a fitness channel on YouTube and about gyms and working out and stuff like that.
Right. And he's a he's a personal trainer.
And he he was looking at a friend of his that had been doing well on that.
That's what made him want to do it.
And I looked at his friend's page and the top top things weren't like
how to get muscular and how to impress the women or whatever it might be.
The top things was how to deal with back pain, how to deal with neck pain,
how to deal with pain. We humans are in pain.
We're just like in a permanent state of pain from the moment we're born
to the moment we die. We don't like that.
It's not a very nice outlook and we can try not to think about it.
We are in pain. And when we're in pain, that is literally a signal that has,
you know, over millions of years of evolution, a signal has been created
to tell our brain, you're in pain.
The reason it tells your brain that is so you do something about it.
And we can that could be mental pain or physical pain.
So as soon as you're in pain, you're going to look at what can I do?
What can I do? And like I say, psychiatry doesn't have all the answers.
Psychology doesn't have all the answers.
Ibuprofen or any of the painkillers don't have all the answers for physical pain.
We just cannot stop pain.
So we will do anything to stop psychological or physical pain.
And the doctor stuff is not working.
That is a huge part.
And there are loads of other parts to it about why people join cults and religions
and things that there are loads, you know, the communal feeling, tribal stuff
and higher power. But pain.
So so so Scientology says, hey, we've got another way of doing it.
We'll take a personality test.
We'll take your personality test.
We'll make you happier.
Well, they've tried that.
But this is what, you know, on the on the sea, or on the boats that
Elrond Hubbard, the founder of Scientology had, when somebody went through
psychosis or anything like that, their answer, rather than given therapy,
was to put them in a room on their own to be quiet for weeks
where nobody would tend to them.
Now, they tried something similar to that with somebody called Lisa McPherson,
who died as a result and they refused to get her medical care.
So it doesn't surprise me that it's all about your right.
It is all in competition with psychiatry and like who can make us
better and happier and fitter and stronger.
And that's what it's all about.
Wow, you said some powerful things there.
And I think that's important, even if you think about the recent thing
happening with the liver king, you know, getting exposed and doing steroids.
And he comes out and he has the nine ancestral tenets of life.
And like he talks like, you know, so it makes you think, what's he selling you?
What is this package, this placebo effect?
And I think in our evolution as tribes, there is this placebo,
even when we danced around to impress the women who sat in the center of the circle,
there's something that goes way, way back and it's even a pain killer in the process.
So there's a lot here we can learn and I hope we keep doing so.
JC Paul, thank you for the super chat.
Really appreciate that.
Hi, Andrew, thanks for the interesting talk.
Do you think there's any validity to the stories and claims by Ed and Lorraine Warren?
Thank you.
Do you know about those?
What are they?
No, I don't know.
Should I look it up here?
This always happens with like the Q&As on my channel as well.
I'm always hoping the other person knows about it.
Seven paranormal investigations by Ed and Lorraine Warren.
So it's about, I guess it's paranormal, JC Paul.
So thank you for the questions.
I'm just, look, this is just me and I'm just going to say, no, that there's not.
And you're, you could, I don't ever want to be that guy who's like, no,
and that means I'm right and you're wrong.
And like, so now I judge you and I think you're an idiot.
And I'm the, you know, I don't believe in that stuff,
but you don't need me to believe in that stuff, you know,
for your own peace of mind or for it to be true because there's plenty of things
that I don't believe in or don't believe exist that do exist.
I'm sure of that.
That's what that's the one thing I am certain of.
The one thing I can be certain of is that I don't know.
There's so much I don't know.
So I don't know my one thing with the paranormal,
any kind of paranormal thing is like, it's just the evidence.
And if somebody, you know, it's like a, a clairvoyance.
If they can, if they can really do that, then they, they should be able to say to
us like, okay, well, this is exactly what they're saying, you know,
rather than, oh, I think it's a man called Jim or whatever.
If, if I was presented with that evidence, I'd, I'd, I'd believe in it.
You know, what, what, what do you think about that, Derek?
Yeah, I'm with you.
I mean, I haven't found that if, in fact, like people who say they know the
future or they can predict things or whatever, it's like, they're not winning
lotteries.
Like, you know, these are things that would be like clear motives that humans
would want and would achieve.
Like if you knew, if I bet on that horse, there's a million dollars in my pocket.
And I think this would make my life and my family's life a lot easier.
But instead they depend on you to come to their little shop.
So they can read your palm and like tell you things that you probably
already know and like make sure that they peek, peek into your background
or whatever it is, or cold read and whatnot to get you suggestive to
thinking that you're doing the right thing.
This is what I see a trend of, but just to, to follow up, JC Paul, I don't
know these people, but they're talking about the movie conjure or conjuring is
based on their stories.
Well, fair enough.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm not having it.
I mean, for me, I had, I had one episode I did was with a woman who had done
a podcast, like a, like a mini series.
I think it was called the fake psychic or something like that or fake psychics.
And it was a story about how in the states, I think it was in the fifties
maybe or sixties, the psychics used to sort of gather information about
their clients and put it all in one central file so that they would all
know each other's.
So if you went to a new psychic, they were likely to know about you.
And he wrote this book about all the tips and tricks that he used during his
time.
So I think even most psychics know they're not real, but they talk about eyes
open and eyes closed.
And the ones with eyes closed are ones who really believe that they are
psychics and eyes open are those who know that they are not and that they're
fooling their people, you know, cause you get both kinds.
There are plenty who think, who can convince themselves they are talking.
I know someone like that.
My, my friend's mom, she really believes that she, she can communicate with
the dead and that kind of thing.
And, you know, it's just not, I don't, I'm not having it personally.
Yeah.
I start as a skeptic and cause I used to be suggestible and just believe
things without actually investigating or being critical before getting there.
And, and, um, yeah, it's going to take some serious work to get me to be
convinced, um, like actual evidence, not stuff like, well, so-and-so said it.
They said they saw it.
So you're telling me they're a liar?
No.
No, I don't know.
Well, that's, what's that called Haslund's razor?
Is it, um, like people always, I'm just going to double check.
It's called that, uh, Haslund's razor.
Let's have a look.
Hanlon, Hanlon's razor.
Right.
So you, this is one of, it's one of the most frustrating argument techniques.
So people are always saying like, hang on.
So, so what you're saying is the person must be lying or, or in, in any
argument, if you presume there's like malignant intent.
So this assumption of just like, huh, they lied to me.
They're bad people then that's Hanlon's razor.
And I don't know why it's called that, but it doesn't have to be that way.
It's not that they're lying.
It's that they really thought they saw that they are being very honest and kind
and nice.
We're not saying anything to the contrary.
We disbelieve what they claim to have seen until that extraordinary claim gets
extraordinary evidence.
Right.
Or we ourselves actually get the same experience and see, but, uh, I, I do
want to say like we, I'm not ruling out that they could be lying.
I'm not assuming they are out the gate either.
I'm saying, I don't trust that what they're saying, maybe there's some issues
with what they're saying or, or maybe they've developed and don't even realize
their own narrative about the situation.
There's so much that can be factored in the least probable to me is that this
literally is what actually happened until I can rule that out.
I mean, that's, that's the last proposition.
In fact, I would do the same thing for the resurrection of Jesus.
Paul was a liar.
He says, he saw the Lord and he gives this account of all these people who
witnessed and said that they saw the Lord.
He appeared to Kephas.
He appeared to the 12, 500 even.
That's what they say.
I'm not saying they're liars.
I'm saying, have you heard of fat, uh, fatwa or, you know, the, the Mary
appearance to happen in front of hundreds of people, thousands of people saw
this thing that they wanted to say was the mother Mary.
I mean, like we just need to start being more critical.
I think because everybody's seen UFOs, seen this, seen Jesus, seen that Elvis
Presley, you name it.
And it's like, maybe humans, um, want to think they believe and yeah,
we want to believe.
Is that X files?
I want to believe.
Maybe that's the case, right?
Maybe that's cool.
It's, it's, it's the first, I think it's from the X files.
I think Mulder has it on his T-shirt, like I want to believe.
And that's, it's like the first step in going wrong in any kind of belief
system, uh, with confirmation bias.
And I love, there's an example with Tom Cruz that I spotted when he was on
that Matt Lauer, Matt Lauer interview.
Yeah.
That's that one where he goes mad at Matt Lauer and he's going, you're being
glib, Matt, you're glib, you don't understand.
I understand psychology.
I understand like the history of psychiatry.
He's like, turns into a lunatic and you don't, doesn't mean you have to like
Matt Lauer, by the way, but Tom Cruz is, is, is a maniac.
Um, and, uh, he says at one point, uh, I never liked psychiatry.
I never liked it.
And once I understood, once I got into psychology, uh, Scientology and I read
about it, then I understood why.
So he does that automatic thing of like, he already didn't like the thing.
Then he read about it and now he knows why he didn't like it.
That is the worst way to form an opinion.
It should have been, I didn't have an opinion on psychiatry.
Then I read about it.
Now I think it's bad.
So he had that confirmation bias.
And it's the same thing.
If you want to believe you're starting from a place of bias, it's just no way
that your mind, our minds are just, they're too, they're too clever.
And that's the thing.
People who are swayed by this stuff, I would never want anyone to think
it means they're stupid because often it means they're smart.
Their brains are so smart.
They are able to pick all the little bits to convince themselves as
something extraordinary.
It's what happened to, um, the Sherlock Holmes writer.
I've got his name right now.
What's his name?
Sherlock Holmes writer.
Ah, Sherlock Holmes writer, Arthur Conan Doyle.
So Arthur Conan Doyle in like the 1930s, um, he's supposed to be like the
writer of, you know, the master of deduction.
So he's got to be pretty smart himself, but he believed in fairies.
And that was not at a time in the 1930s or 40s or whenever it was that
people believed in fairies.
That was really unusual, but he believed in it because some children had
done a prank where they put up a picture of a fairy and they like put
some drawing pins in it to hold it up somewhere and took a photo of it.
And he saw the drawing pin in the stomach of a fairy and thought, oh,
that means fairies can give birth.
Isn't that incredible?
Cause that's a belly button.
You know, that's the name.
And so incredible.
This is incredibly intelligent guy who's using anything he can deduce to
confirm the theory he already holds.
I mean, Jordan Peterson is very good at that himself, uh, cause he has a lot
of religious belief.
He's obviously incredibly smart person, Ben Shapiro.
These are really smart people and they still hold religious beliefs
because they're so smart, I think, not in spite of it.
Well, I find that very intelligent people also will like capitalize on
material that you, I'm not nearly as intelligent as some of the people that
I interviewed, for example, they draw conclusions and I'm like, uh, why are
you doing that?
Like I don't get that, but, and this happens a lot.
Um, you bring up something interesting about them believing that I do think
that Elron Hubbard, as I've investigated this, and I've been talking
to Chris Shelton and all of these ex-scientologists who've investigated
it, that he actually had this strange, yes, he's a con man in a way.
And yes, he was full of himself, but started believing his own science fiction.
Okay.
So there is some really weird things about the mind that we humans just, uh,
don't get, we just don't realize.
And that's why I think we should be critical, even of our own claims.
And just use a skeptical mind.
Anyway, I just, I just want to add to that.
So people, this is what Michael Sherman figured out.
People who, statistically, people who believe that the moon landings were hoaxed
and that we never went to the moon are also statistically, uh, more likely to
believe that we've hidden structures on the other side of the moon.
So they can believe both those things.
That's the incredible thing about the human mind.
Wow.
Yeah.
We've never been there, but there is a, uh, what would you call it a base or
something on the other side of the moon?
Uh, it is funny how the mind can do that.
The, uh, stop scamming man.
Good to see you here in the chat.
While Scientology's take on psychiatry was probably Elron Hubbard demonizing
competition for fixing people.
Yep.
I think it's fair to say psychiatry in previous decades was a lot poorer than
today, without a doubt.
That's true as well.
And what it was poorer at the same time you were able to do, you were freer to
do more kinds of experiments and things that you couldn't today because ethically,
you know, there, there are much better ethics protection involved now.
Um, so the, you know, people always talk about in psychology, there's two big events.
It was the Milgram experiment and the Stanford prison experiment.
Um, the Stanford prison experiment experiment being when they, uh, got, uh,
God, they set up like 10 or 20 people and half of them were guards and half of
them were prisoners to see what would happen.
Uh, and it just went mad the way that the guards bullied the prisoners by the end
of the experiment, but it was totally unethical.
You can't just do that to people and people weren't allowed to leave.
Outrageous.
And then the Milgram experiment was, um, when they were told to, they were
told that somebody else was in another room and that you were to keep electrocuting
them basically, and people turned the electrocution levels up or the electricity
levels up to a level that would kill those people if they were real in the other room.
So they would have been murderers just, and it was an interesting experiment to
see how much people would do if they're told by people in white coats to do it.
Um, and people have replicated that a little bit since, but you can't really
do those kinds of experiments now because to be told afterwards, you know, you
basically, you know, if that person had been real, you, you were a murderer.
You just killed someone that screws with your mind.
Similarly, you can't just put people in prison.
So psychiatry has gotten better partly as a result of some of those experiments
that we can't do anymore, but it's also not, um, it's not perfect.
And it probably never will be.
Yeah, I'm with you on that.
I think that goes for anything medical.
Um, thank you so much.
Stop scamming, man.
Oh, before I take this, someone mentioned, um, Mary Kay Baxter.
I don't know if you've ever heard of her books, a divine revelation of hell,
a divine revelation of heaven, a divine revelation of this that her books are
extremely vivid.
And as a kid, I read this, the divine revelation of hell block is nuts.
Like hell is in the shape of a human body and there's different parts that
you can go to and the worst for the worst kind of people on earth go to the
heart. Jesus takes her in her dream to hell to show her.
And then in one of them, in one of these situations, he takes her to the
heart and leaves her there to let her experience it for a moment.
And then she's so mad at him and he takes around, he wanted her to learn
something so that she could give this message to the world.
I mean, I can't imagine how many books she sold from this, but it, it, it's
like a nightmare.
It literally is top notch science fiction, kind of, uh, fictional writing,
if you will.
But she's, she's actually acting like she really was taken and whatnot.
People, people are believing in that.
But I read those as a kid and it freaking gave me nightmares.
I mean, it was just nuts.
Yeah, I bet, I bet it reminds me of that.
There's that Robin Williams film, uh, what dreams may come.
And that gave me some of the sort of dreams and nightmares and things.
He also goes into hell, uh, so that gets someone back.
And of course, you know, Dante's Inferno, I mean, this has long been
something that we've been fascinated by different levels of hell.
We like to imagine what could be worse and worse and worse and worse.
I had a professor on, on my channel called Professor Paul Bloom.
And he wrote this book called Why We Like To Suffer, or it's called
The Sweet Spots.
Uh, and it's like, what, why, you know, the most basic parts of it are
like, why we like really hot baths and why we like really spicy food.
You know, you like that second of, of suffering because afterwards, by
comparison, you're alleviated and you feel great.
Um, as it's the same reason for him, you know, why do we like, he looks
into, why do we like true crime?
Why are people so obsessed with like, it's particularly women with
watching and listening to true crime, just murder after murder, horrible
things happening.
And part of that is we enjoy suffering and part of that is practice because
for a woman, it makes sense that they get like a, a bit of dopamine in the
brain when they watch and pay attention to true crime, because it might help
them get out of a similar situation if something were to happen to them,
where they might be a victim at some point.
And I think it's the same reason why we enjoy watching horror films.
It's practice, you know, a zombie apocalypse.
Obviously that's not going to really happen, but some sort of
apocalypse could happen, some sort of terrible, you know, the electricity
could go down or whatever.
Your brain is telling you, watch this, like you're enjoying it because
watch it because you might learn something.
So that's why I think you enjoyed maybe, despite having the horrible
nightmares, reading that stuff.
And I think it's a big part of like the fire and brimstone stuff.
You know, we love it.
It's, it entertains us because it's practice.
I could see it too.
I mean, it was written in such a way you can see what you're reading and it
freaks you out.
So yeah.
Hey, Janssen, thank you for the super chat.
Have you ever investigated the claims of the lightning process?
They claim to cure all kinds of diseases by a kind of brainwashing.
No, I've never heard of them, but there are just so many of these.
Have you heard of them?
No, I'm looking it up right now.
There's just too many every episode.
I'm sure it's the same for you.
Every episode I do, every video I put out, there's like a hundred comments going
like, what about this group of horrible people that are doing horrible things?
I'm like, oh, I don't know them, but it looks like they're horrible as well.
So it says this, oh goodness.
Phil Parker's lightning process home to lightning.
It says, uh, change the way your nervous system controls your body.
It's empowering tools involved, gentle movement, meditation like techniques
and mental exercises with practice.
Here we are with practice.
Oh, press something in it went back.
Anyway, you get the point.
Uh, you'll learn how to switch on pathways, which promote health and switch off
ones, which aren't so good for you.
So it's one of those, it's one of those, uh, put yourself in a suggestible
state here, get us, get some sense of placebo effect through a meditation
type of context and you'll see that it works.
You'll see, you'll feel more peace.
You'll feel more of this, you'll feel more of that.
Um, thank you for that super chat.
Moses Irfan.
Thank you.
I hope I'm pronouncing that correctly.
Have you encountered the work of Bob Larson?
I used to watch him as a teenager.
Love your work there.
Thank you so much.
Bob Larson sounds familiar.
We don't know anyone.
Do we, Derek?
Bob Larson, American television evangelist.
Uh, well, there you go.
He's 78 years old.
That's all I know about him.
Wow.
Bad language delivers from Bob Larson.
Larson, a Reverend Bob Larson is an evangelist of the spiritual freedom
church whose motto is do what Jesus did at one time preacher against photos
of exorcist Bob Larson.
So he's an exorcist.
Um, he's also an anti-metal pastor.
I don't know if that's metal music or just metal.
And he thought that Johnny Depp was possessed by pirate demons.
I've seen like, I've seen snippets of him trying to cast out demons of young
teenage girls, and I don't know if he made them exorcist as well.
I think this is the guy.
I've seen something like this.
But it's, it's like all of them.
Like if you were to ask me my thoughts, like technically, I definitely think these
people are, I think that either they're convinced themselves, like you talked
about speaking in tongues at first, you don't really think, then you start
believing in what you're doing.
I can't psychoanalyze or read these people's minds on whether or not they
really believe what they're doing is true.
But I am convinced that what they're doing is working in the environments that
they're in and it's keeping them fed.
In fact, just to give you one analogy, and you know, I always go back to
Christianity because I know it so well, there's an actual scholar, serious
academic in history who argued that he believed that the disciples really did
steal the body of Jesus after he died.
Now, I don't go that far.
I think it's legend, but let's just grant it.
Well, what happened to his body if it's missing from the tomb, right?
Like if you play that hypothetical in your head and his explanation was the
disciples would have stolen it so that they could keep selling the message
because instead of going back up to be fishermen in Galilee, as they were, and
having to pay taxes to Tiberius because he's implementing taxes on this lake
shore, they want to be able to be fed and get money through just simply
speaking this message and going from house to house and never have to work
again to try and provide, they get paid, they get taken care of.
Now, I don't take that conclusion.
The point is there's like this idea like I'd rather keep doing what I'm doing
than go back to construction or whatever it might be, you know what I mean?
You end up getting, you go too far in.
It's a little bit like me on YouTube with Scientology.
It's like I've got to keep doing the Scientology videos now.
They've got to keep doing the sort of fake mad.
I'm sure there are many points in like a priest's life or an exorcist's life where
they maybe stop believing, but they think, well, look, I'm 45, 50, 55.
It's a bit late to retrain to do something else.
How else am I going to put food on the table now?
And you'll keep telling yourself, well, maybe it is true and it's not bad what I'm doing
until you reach a point maybe where you go, I can't do this anymore, but some must continue.
Thank you, Moses.
Great question.
I don't know Bob Larson, but I would say one size fits all probably with it comes to the exorcism.
M. Doug, thank you.
Thanks.
Keep up the good work.
The more people know about the film flam, the more flam flam be safe.
Flam flam.
Sorry, brain did this.
What is the flam?
So flam flam is just like nonsense.
Yes.
Okay.
Got it.
Got it.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
M. Doug.
Good point.
M. Doug.
Absolutely.
Stops gaming man again in the house.
The kids avoided disclosing the fairies were a hoax until the 80s when Conan Doyle and
another who staked his reputation were dead.
It was kids protecting adults from knowing fairies didn't exist.
Yeah, that's the Arthur Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes story.
And the kids who put up pictures of the fairies as a hoax.
Yeah, they didn't reveal it.
I think it led to the breakdown in the relationship, the friendship between Arthur Conan Doyle and
Houdini, the magician who they were close friends and a big part of that.
There was a few other things that happened as well, but they started to disagree because
Houdini didn't believe in anything.
Paranormal and Arthur Conan Doyle did.
It's interesting that a lot of these magicians who know they're psychologically tricking the
mind of humans, they know that we like our perception is limited.
So they know how to tweak that mental part and they don't believe, but it's the people
who are in the audience who know that there's something true about this.
And like, can you imagine if you tricked everyone like Darren Brown does,
then go and tell them, hey, I tricked you.
And they're like, nope, you didn't trick me.
It was real.
And you just don't realize that that's the mind.
The beauty, though, as well of those Darren Brown tricks, and this is my theory as well,
there are layers of things that we are supposed to, they're trying to make us believe
that are not true.
So on the top layer, it's like, you know, magic.
I performed magic, whether it be via God or religion or spirituality or whatever.
This is what I did.
And what Darren Brown, and I shouldn't just pick on him because I don't know enough,
you know, but these mentalists, they, what they're doing is they're diverting attention
away.
It's this, they are saying to you, I didn't do this with real magic and spirituality.
I'm an atheist.
I didn't do this.
What I really did was I use psychology, you know, so Darren Brown will be like, oh,
you blinked and that means this and that.
And that's also usually not real.
So that's the other thing.
So it's like, it's not just the top layer, the religion and spirituality.
It's also the sort of the psychology stuff, the behavioral analysis.
I know that's really popular on YouTube, like look at someone's behavior,
but I think we need to be just as skeptical about that stuff, which is like secular stuff,
as we are about anything else.
And all studies show that humans are not adept and not, not able to tell from someone's
physical behavior and how they move their arms.
And if they look down or up or left and right, what that means, if they're guilty or innocent
or whatever, we can't tell.
And yet people continue perpetuating that a little bit like religion.
So it's not just spirituality that I think we need to be skeptical of.
Well, when Darren Brown converted that atheist, the girl that was an atheist,
and he gave her a spiritual experience, and then he goes to like explain, hey,
look, we've documented the whole thing.
I did this in less than 15 minutes.
I gave you that.
I took real things of your life.
Your father is your hero, your family, things like that and applied it to a father figure.
That's just bigger.
We call God in her eyes.
She looked like she couldn't believe that this wasn't real because of the experience that she had.
And that's that's the shocker.
It's like you could show the film.
I wonder today if she's still an atheist or not.
I'm curious to know if she's like that experience was just too profound.
Even with you documenting all of this, I couldn't.
I can't break through what I felt that day.
And therefore I'm just going to hold on to it.
I don't know.
It makes me fascinating.
Yeah.
A few more here.
The governor says Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses and Scientologists all tell their followers to
shun psychiatrists.
Makes sense.
We were talking about that earlier.
They're in competition.
Doc Pluromonot, thank you for showing up and thank you for the super chat.
I also want to say thank you to the previous person super chat.
Forgot to mention.
Thank you.
I used to work with an MD.
Dr. Braverman, Path Medical, who is a complete quack.
He's a converted Jew on Benny Hinn's faith healing network.
Check this kook out.
Wow.
Yeah, I don't know him, but it sounds like a nutter.
Are you going in this direction of like I'm going to just expose cults now or?
I think so.
Yeah.
I mean, it's what I started with the exorcist stuff.
And then it's I sort of went to a lot of other things as well.
I focused on sometimes political ideologies like right wing and left wing and stuff like that.
But every time I went back to sort of cults and religions and particularly Scientology,
people just loved it.
And eventually you've got to give people what they want.
And it's I've been intrigued since I was like, I say 12 years old in synagogue,
just going like, what the hell is this?
I think it's a lack of respect that I have.
I don't respect people.
I like people.
I want to be polite to people.
And I hope that they like and are polite to me.
I don't want them to respect me that I don't like the word.
And I don't necessarily mean the word respect in the same way that other people would.
What I mean is that sort of looking up to someone and just saying like you must,
you know, whatever they say, you have to hold that in reverence because they're
whoever they are and whatever position they have in society.
I feel very egalitarian about that.
I don't want anyone to ever look up at me or down at me or enough for me to look up or down at anyone else.
And I think that's a big part about religion and cults that I've always found really
gross, just gross, that thing, that reverence for someone because they have some sort of spiritual
level, not because of what they've actually accomplished in their life, but because of
some sort of spiritual nonsense.
So yeah, I think I've got the passion to keep doing that because it just what it just drives me mad.
What about you?
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's in fact, I always think about this one recent situation and went to a friend of mine's
wedding and his father, you know, we were all Christians, hardcore Christians growing up
evangelicals.
His father, I think knows either from my friend telling him that I'm not a Christian anymore
or that I'm doubting or that I'm skeptical.
He approaches me, whips out his wallet and shows me like one of these prophet sayings,
I have, I have prepared good things for you, you know, and like something and he looks at me
and goes, you know what you need to do, Derek, you know, you need to go and you need to humble
yourself and you need to come back to God.
Like, and I was really uncomfortable.
So sexual.
Well, it was going to go and humble yourself, Derek, you need to go and humble yourself.
Well, it wasn't obviously it wasn't a sexual thing.
It was more, he was like psycho anal.
Like, I don't know how it was very coercive and emotional coercive kind of a feeling where
you're like, damn, I used to do this to my friends.
I remember you.
I used to walk over to them because I'd read the Bible.
I get really into Christianity to the point where I'm over here and I'm right.
This is also the scary part is that I'm right and you're wrong.
And you need to hear what I'm telling you for the sake of your soul.
Isn't it ironic that they use words like humble or humility for that?
Because the whole point of humility is the uncertainty and doubt.
That's what you're supposed to have.
He should have come out.
You need to humble yourself like I am because I don't know.
But his thing is like, you need to humble yourself because I know now that.
No, not having that that happens a lot.
And I just wanted to give that example because I told my wife after I said,
man, I'm sorry that I was ever like that.
But I bet you are with other things because everyone is right.
I bet you are with whether it may be some political ideology or a sport team that you like.
That's humanity.
And we try not to.
But so often I've been like, what do you mean that that soccer player is not good?
How can he's the best?
And it's so hard not to have that certainty with certain things.
I'm sure there is.
I'm not big into the sports stuff.
So and I'm not a big fan of getting into politics.
So I have a distaste from it.
The same reason I have a distaste in the cults of what I find within religion.
And there's so much tribalism that it really is off putting to me.
That's why I also avoid that.
But I'm comfortable in the religious realm of communicating,
especially since I know enough about Christianity.
But even then, I try not to be overly.
I want to give you a thousand, let a thousand flowers bloom kind of thing,
like look at the various experts in the field and what they say,
make up your own mind when you watch my channel.
I tell people where I'm at and I tell them why I'm convinced of why I'm an atheist
or why I don't believe this is true.
But I do try to give people the freedom who watch my channel to get educated
without me having to coerce them, so to speak.
They can say, hey, I don't I don't follow Derek's conclusion,
but they can draw conclusions themselves based on the evidence that's brought by experts.
I try, I do try.
I'm not going to lie, but I'm sure there's something.
Yeah, I'm not going to deny that there's got to be an area where I'm like,
no, I know this and you're wrong.
Yeah.
Hey, Jansen, thank you so much for the Super Chat.
Again, lightning process practitioners are trying successfully
to influence official health policies in Scandinavia,
pushing patients to cultish quackery, denying them medical help and benefits.
Well, there you go.
Yeah.
You don't see that on the front page of that website.
They're like, oh, we're just here to help you with the meditative.
Oh, OK.
And don't go see any doctors anymore.
Just come see us.
Oh, got it.
Yeah.
Thank you, Jansen.
I will be looking into some of these things and eventually exposing more cults from you name it.
I mean, I do a lot of that as well.
And we get experts on here all the time, Andrew, that talk about Christianity,
the Hebrew Bible.
Now I've been focusing on Islam and its origins and stuff,
using a natural secular approach to discover that.
So with your channel, I want everybody to please go subscribe.
I've mentioned this before, but I can't emphasize it enough what you're doing.
You've been growing successfully.
Your channel is what blown up in the past few months.
Yeah.
It wasn't like I was saying before.
It really didn't for a long time because I was focusing on the audio podcast.
Loads of people listen as an audio.
And then the last two, three months, it just went from like 3,000 subscribers up to at least 50.
I was going to pretend I didn't know somewhere in the 50s because I know it's 52 point something.
Uh, 52,000 something subscribers.
And yeah, similar, similar channel to yours, looking at the cults and stuff.
Literally my latest episode last night was about Islam as well with Yasmin Mohammed.
It's actually an old episode of mine because this is the thing.
I had these episodes from two, two years ago.
Some of them are some of my favorites.
And that's why the camera doesn't look as good on that one
because they were some of my favorite episodes.
And it's like no one watched them.
And then you once you've got the subscribers, it's amazing what a difference it makes.
So like, I think like a few hundred people watched that in two years.
And then I put it out last night and already a few thousand have seen that one.
It's like, what a huge difference.
So yeah, it's, uh, and Robbie Williams was just on who in America is not a big deal.
But he is one of the most famous singers in the world.
He's like Madonna and Justin Timberlake combined.
And he's a bit spiritual and he's like into conspiracy theories.
And I did a two parter.
So that's the second part.
And the first part was out like a week or two ago.
And, uh, that was like a hero of mine from, it was like, it's like if you had like, uh,
you know, Madonna on the podcast or something, I don't know how we got him.
So, uh, easy trapped.
And I suspect we got to watch the show, right?
I mean, it's, yeah, that's Robbie Williams with, with me and Sean Atwood,
old friend of mine and his, uh, his partner, Jen and Robbie, who just, yeah, he's like,
he was my hero as a child.
What's, what's he into?
What's his, what's his issues?
This is like, do you know, or did they got?
Oh yeah.
So, so, so yeah, like I said, so that's the second one.
So the first one was a couple of weeks earlier and he talks more about conspiracy theories
and aliens.
He, he believes a lot of stuff that I don't.
But again, like I say, like, like he's had in the, it's the weirdest things that Americans
and Canadians don't know about Robbie Williams because he's, uh, in the UK, he had the most
number one albums of all time.
So he's had more than, uh, I think the Beatles, more than Elvis, more than like all these people.
He's the star and somehow Sean managed to get him to come on.
But yeah, Richard Dawkins was another one we had on and, uh, I say we, it was me, I suppose,
wasn't it?
And, uh, uh, Amanda Knox was one of my favorites as well.
Do you remember her?
Do you have Amanda Knox?
No, I don't know Amanda.
So Amanda Knox was like, uh, a huge deal because she was accused of murder in Italy.
This young woman who was known for being very attractive and about 19 years old at the time.
And she came home and found her roommate, uh, who was a British woman in Italy.
They were all studying together.
Amanda's American.
She found her, she had died, uh, been killed and she was accused and she went to prison
in Italy for four years and it was this big thing.
They called her Foxy Noxie, which I thought was because she was so attractive.
It wasn't all the newspapers, Foxy Noxie, but I think it's actually was because of her
soccer, how she, she was like quick.
So they called her Foxy Noxie.
She was really fast.
Um, but yeah, she's, she's like a huge deal.
So I was like amazed, uh, that she came on the show.
I was really excited for that.
Yeah.
You've got some big names and I hope to see you succeed.
Keep doing what you're doing, what you're doing with Scientology is working.
And as I say, you find your pocket, run with it because there's so much more, as you know,
and you're discovering every day with this cult and the fact that it has such a reach
in celebrity, like in the Hollywood world is what makes us even more like, what?
I mean, yeah.
So there's a lot and David Miscavige, goodness gracious.
I got to interview Ron Miscavige before he died and he was suffering with cancer.
Wouldn't tell anyone.
It was not till I tried to schedule again and he wrote back and said,
I probably have a couple of weeks and I'm too sick.
I'm too sick.
I would love to, but I'm just no energy.
He couldn't keep food down.
He died of cancer.
But he came on and I opened it up with a little scene where he's like,
Scientology is the most disgusting, you know, but his son is the president,
if you will, of the whole thing.
I mean, he is the pope of Scientology, his son.
So Andrew, people need to go subscribe to you, man.
They need to.
Oh, Derek, thank you.
Thank you.
Well, if, if for nothing else, the fact that you'll probably be on,
we need to arrange it, but maybe next week or something,
that's a reason to come and subscribe and check out Derek on the,
and I've just had a brand new trailer, which I've paid a fortune to an editor
to put up on the, on the channel.
So, so if, if for nothing else, go and please watch that trailer.
Oh, and, and my most recent episode, which was out last night,
I did one looking at the four scariest things that Scientology has done.
I did my first ever ad, like an ad ad, there was a VPN ad,
but I actually did like a crazy weird thing where I filmed like me and my neighbors,
like running around being chased by Scientologists.
So if for nothing else, watch that full scariest things in Scientology
that I put out last night, just for that ridiculous advert.
No way.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's like they turn up at the door to like fair game me.
Oh, that's a, that's another thing we've got a lot to talk about.
I'm sure we'll do more as time goes by because goodness gracious,
you may have a lot in common.
Andrew Gold, ladies and gentlemen, go subscribe again to his YouTube channel.
I put it down in the chat.
It is also in the description.
You could just type in Andrew Gold on the edge, if you will, with Andrew Gold.
So go subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Let, let him know.
Hey, I'm coming over from MythVision.
Let him know where you're coming from.
So he knows.
I love that.
Absolutely.
I love that.
Thank you so much.
Are there any final words you would say to somebody out there that is wanting to look
into this stuff, more exorcisms and cults and crazy ideas, any encouraging words maybe,
leaving with something positive?
I would say firstly, can I ask them a question?
Can I ask people on your thing, your question?
So firstly, well, one thing you said a bit ago, I was intrigued about because you said,
you don't do politics, which, or you don't want to get involved in which,
which I think is probably the right decision and I'm leaning towards doing that as well.
But I also think there's a huge overlap with cults and ideologies and religions and politics as
well.
So firstly, I'm just intrigued about what your viewers want.
So I wondered if you guys could put, because, because obviously you could say like a cult
could be, some people say the Trumpy stuff like really far right.
I'm not saying that, but some people say some could say like the woke ideology and the stuff
on the left, but those things are culty.
So could, could you put a one in the chat if you want Derek to sometimes look at political
cults, the politics, the cult of politics and put a two if you think, you know what, no,
tired of politics, don't want to do it.
I've got a, my theory is that it's going to be an even split.
So one, if you want political cult stuff, two, if you don't want Derek to touch on that, I
reckon, I reckon it's going to be even.
I used to do this with Sean a lot, we, on his show, Sean Atwood, do the ones and the
twos.
And it was, it was really interesting to see what people said and stuff like that.
And while they're doing that, yeah, just final, I would just say,
you know, all, you know what?
The best advice I got about cults came from Amanda Montell who wrote a book called
Cultish and she was on my show and I'd recommend her for yours.
If you can get in touch with her, you know, I'm sure she would.
And she said, she, she is of the belief and not everyone agrees with this, but she's of the
belief that a cult is very difficult to define and you basically, it's a spectrum.
So one out of 10 cult or two out of 10 might be a fitness regime somewhere, you know,
meditation or whatever and a 10 out of 10 might be Scientology or Heaven's Gate or one of those
Jonestown, that's a 10 out of 10.
And she said, if you find it, you, you're worried you might be in a cult.
The issue isn't, don't try, unless it's like a 10 out of 10, but if it's like a three or four
or five out of 10, you're in a cultish group, don't necessarily get rid of that cult.
Just make sure you're in more cults.
She said, join many of them and then you're not reliant on one because the problem is,
you won't leave a cult because you're worried about losing your social circle,
your social status and all those things behind.
So join loads of them and then you're not, then you don't have that same sort of collateral,
that same sort of issue of like, oh no, I can't leave because you've got that foundation.
So that was a really interesting look.
So that's what I would leave people with.
And I would also say stick with Derek, everyone, because Derek is going places,
myth vision is going to be on a million subscribers in a year.
I would love to see that.
Yeah, I'd love to see it in a million, but I am going to keep growing.
And just to give you some, some evidence in the chat, right?
We've got some people are like, yeah, go into it.
There's just, there's a cult scholar who actually goes into the bite model and stuff like that.
Steven, Steve Hassan.
Yes.
And I was going to get into him because he actually talks about the cult of Donald Trump.
And I thought, okay, hold on.
This is a religious type of movement.
It's not like just somebody who voted for Trump because they have some right leaning politics
or they think some of his policies they like or whatever.
We're talking the cult.
Like they follow his personality.
This guy is the man.
There is no wrong.
He does that kind of level.
And I thought about doing that and talking to him, but I haven't done that.
I haven't actually made that happen.
There's some people who want that.
And then there's others in the crowd, right?
They give the two and they're like, no, no, no, we don't want that.
We do want that.
We don't want that.
It's so hard.
It's so hard because people, people are tired.
People are tired of 1.5.
I love that.
People are tired of it.
People are tired of politics at the same time.
It's hard to ignore that.
Steve Hassan, I think, personally, and I've never spoken to him.
I tried to get him on and didn't quite happen in the end.
I think he, just from what I've looked at, is a little bit too,
what is a bit one-sided with that about the right.
And he doesn't say the same about the left as often.
That's just my opinion of it.
But whatever you do, the problem is you're going to get so much hate.
And that's what I have had whenever I've done it.
There are always people who might be voting for Trump.
And even though you say you're not saying just people who vote for Trump,
you're saying people who are really into it.
And you say, no, but I've done one on the left as well.
I did one on both sides and people go, yeah, I don't care.
I don't care because that's my guy.
That's my position.
And if you're attacking them, I get this from Christians,
often fundamentalist Christians,
because my work is so critical of Christianity,
that obviously they're just not going to favor my work because of that.
And so you could go out here being honest,
trying to point out that you think some people have gone way too far in any direction.
And it's like, hey, this is a problem.
Another person, all caps, right?
James is not his area of expertise.
But here's the deal.
I'm not an expert in any area.
And this is the thing.
I know Christianity quite well.
I mean, you could say I've picked up a PhD, in a sense.
I've heard this from many academics in an interview.
Like, Derek, you practically have a PhD without getting your PhD
from all the books you've read and all that you've learned from us experts.
The point is, I wouldn't cover it as if I'm some political guru.
I would be interviewing experts on this from their perspectives
and getting them to educate if that were the case.
But I want to avoid it anyway, because it's, you know what's weird?
Politics are worse than religion.
Yes.
I mean, you want to get people pissed?
You want people really hate you?
You want death threats?
Don't just poke at religion.
Start talking politics.
And you'll find out that people wish you were dead.
I mean, you will find out how quickly they are sucked into that world
more than they are into the religious cult stuff.
So it's like, do you really even want to go down this path
unless you want to be a political channel
and you want to create a like-minded think tank
of people who also are going to favor you?
Yes.
This is the thing.
This is, it's another religious, it has overlap and you're right.
But it's also something I've avoided
so that I could specialize an expert,
like get the experts to point out about these ancient texts
and who knows one day who knows where I'll go with that.
But I also don't talk about it
because I haven't studied politics in depth.
I haven't actually investigated these things thoroughly.
That makes sense.
So it's, it's so, it's so hard though.
Like I, I tried for a long time to incorporate that.
And I think I'm the same as you.
I think I'm going to move away from it.
But sometimes it just comes up like,
so the, the woman I spoke to on last night's episode, Yasmine Mohammed,
her whole point is that the, the, her, she believes
that the people on the left have got at the moment,
a double standard about Islam,
where if they see some of the horrors going on
in any extreme religion, they'll speak up,
but they won't with Islam because they say,
oh no, that's, you know, in exoticism, you know,
they're allowed to do their thing kind of thing.
You've got to respect their practices.
And she's like, the things that happen to me,
the things that have happened to my family,
and you white people just sit there and don't do anything.
You don't care when like a, this happens to a young girl.
You know, I don't want to say some of the things again,
in case it gets your channel in trouble or whatever,
but awful things happen.
And her point is, is quite political.
She's saying, you know, why is the left not speaking up about it?
And often it will be about the right.
It will be the evangelical churches, some of the mega churches.
It will move into, you know, well, the Q stuff and Trump
and all those things.
And it goes into the right.
And then people get angry, you know?
And I'm like, I'm not on either side.
I'm trying to be the middle guy, but people are angry.
Well, I lean left.
I'm very open about leaning left.
And I definitely would favor a lot of the things,
ethically speaking, and of course,
positions that I know are progressive in that direction.
But I also know that I do see what you're saying
about tiptoeing around dangerous things,
especially when it comes to Islam and other things.
But I also have learned to be balanced in this approach,
because not all Muslims are, you know, I kind of wonder,
I wonder if Sam Harris has gone a bit far
in kind of projecting in some direction
toward Islam and Muslims in general.
At the same time, I know that there is a lot of things
that we would look at and go, that's dated.
These are things that we would say,
we don't practice anymore.
We shouldn't, right?
So I want to be fair.
I want to be honest.
And this is where you're going from religion
to tiptoeing right over into political expectations.
And I'm trying to just be honest and be fair
and actually just deal with data
and focus on what I think is bad.
And if I think that Christian nationalism is horrible
or there's bad things about Christian nationalism,
I think that there's some bad things about Islam, for sure.
And so, yeah, you're going to piss people off.
And no matter what we do,
this is just the way the cookie crumbles.
Yeah.
Well, Yasmin addressed Sam Harris in this video,
because she knows Sam and she's met with him.
So she talked about that in this video I did.
And she fully defends Sam Harris.
But I like what you just said, maybe this, but maybe that.
That's how I speak as well.
I like to go like, hey, we don't know.
But what really annoyed Yasmin was when I said,
I kept saying things like, look,
there are obviously these bad things in Islam,
but there are bad things in Christianity and Judaism as well.
And she, but she didn't like me saying that.
Because she was like, when you criticize Christianity,
you don't say, but there are bad things in Islam.
And I go, no, I suppose I don't.
She goes, why are you making an exception
for the one that was ruining my life?
Why do you have to like,
balance that out with other religions
when you talk about the one?
No, no, she was a Muslim, she was born a Muslim.
She was an expert, she's an ex-Muslim
and horrible things happened to her.
She now hates Islam.
She hates other religions as well.
She's an atheist, but she says,
why do you have to like, why when you criticize Islam,
are you now, do you keep, she said to me, Andrew,
why do you keep saying, and also everyone,
bad things happen in Christianity and Judaism,
and all the other religions.
She said, you don't say that when you criticize Christianity.
You don't say, I mean-
Two answers from me, why?
Number one, there is a stereotype in America
toward Muslims.
Yes, there are extremists.
Salman Rushdie would happen in 9-11.
There is a stereotype in America
about this particular group of people
that are practicing this particular religion.
So we have a stereotypical view of them.
The same why it was, if you go back,
it was stereotypical blacks and whites in America.
My point is, is we have a stereotypical approach to them
in general, and I'll go even further.
I've been really harmed from the psychological stuff
that's come from Christianity,
and I've met many Christians who have been,
they have to go to trauma therapy.
They're leaving Christianity, and they've been harmed,
and it has done damage to them.
So I want to be fair because it's easy to go,
hey, that other, that foreigner, that stranger,
that person who isn't really domestically from America.
Yeah, they're the bad guys,
and their religion is horrible.
So when you hear that,
it's because maybe she hasn't experienced
what we have from Christianity,
and maybe her experiences might be worse
from that particular area of the world
or wherever she's from.
I'm saying it because this is fair.
There's all sorts of bad in all of them,
and I want to do that.
You know what? That's a great answer.
I wish I'd said that to her when she said that.
I was just like, oh, I'm,
because you know when you're speaking to people,
I was just like, oh, I'm sorry.
She's like, well, you know, you shouldn't be saying,
you know, and I was like, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
But I think that's actually a great answer.
I, you know, it depends on your circumstance,
and we don't want to stereotype people.
I think that's a brilliant answer.
I will go back in time and tell her.
If you were, yeah, I know, right?
Wouldn't you if you were in Saudi Arabia as a minority
and someone who's stereotypical Westerner, right?
And people were abusing you of this Western ideology,
and you were constantly getting,
first of all, you're being treated differently.
They're viewing you.
They're talking about you.
You're this people group that just,
what are you doing in my land?
And Muslims stood up and said, hey, cut it out.
There's some bad stuff also in certain versions
of our religion.
Wouldn't you love someone to stand up for you and say,
hey, listen, cut the stereotype out.
Andrew Gold's a good human being, all right?
He's not like trying to destroy your life
or trying to kill you or trying to do this and that.
That is like, we have to try to project
and put ourselves in situations.
And that's why you have to take the testimony
from people who have left these goals.
Take it with a grain of salt and balance
because there is a big, there's a lot more, man.
It's complexity.
There's nuance and complexity to everything.
And that's why I'm careful with Sam Harris
in many ways of what he's saying.
I totally get what he's trying to say,
but you kind of wonder, how is this helping balance?
And are we giving a voice
to the more liberal progressive Muslim
who is also saying these extremists
are the worst kind of ilk?
We need to stop, we need to get them out of power.
We need to stop that ideology,
that version of this from growing.
And so should we give more voices to people
who are more progressive in their approach?
Should we give more voices to people who are going,
I just want peace.
I literally just want to raise my family
and I want to enjoy the world I live in.
Sure, I'm a Muslim and this is the world view
that I believe, but I don't want any bad to you guys.
Can we listen to what they're saying
and not think they're being deceptive?
Or do we need to listen to the ex-Christian,
sorry, the ex, sorry, the Christian apologist,
Muslim antagonist like David Wood and others
who want to just paint this narrative
that like this evil religion and this all evil
and everything about it's trying to get us.
And don't you realize they're actually lying to your face
because it's in their ideology to say,
hey, treat them good until we're in power.
Once we're in power, we'll overthrow them.
It is a conspiracy to start develop this idea.
And it's not based on any false data.
If you go into some of the later medieval interpreters,
they interpreted the life of Muhammad similar to this.
When he wasn't in power, he was more ecumenical
and trying to cooperate because he couldn't do anything about it.
But then they interpreted that later in Muhammad's life,
he became more violent and he literally was out there
with the sword converting and force converting
or at least forcing others to submit.
And this is what they think all Muslims do
because there are some extreme groups
that actually interpret Muhammad this way
and recognize once we're in power, we're going to crush them.
But there are Muslims in the West, for example,
or in Europe you could go to who are like, no.
And I had a recent scholar on who takes a historical approach
and says, scratch the medieval interpreters.
The Quran itself constantly has Muhammad trying to say,
try peace, like let's go with peace.
And so there's just, look, it's not a one-stop shop
and like this everybody in this group, we need a stereotype
and that's the problem I'm finding.
Well, I think what Yasmin would say and Sam Harris is like,
we're not trying to attack the group
because I mean, you mentioned black and whites before,
whatever, but Islam is a belief.
It's not the same as characterizing Arabs, right?
An Arabic person, not that everybody who's an Arab
is Muslim or vice versa, right?
But it's not the ethnicity or something.
We're talking about a belief system
and we have to always be able to criticize.
I had to use an analogy here, but.
We've got to be able to criticize ideas.
And I think they would say that.
And I think your concern is like, yes,
but there are a lot of people who are basically racist,
who are going to take those things, you know?
So that's the balance that we always have to get
and to look at ourselves all the time.
I would say like with the interpretations of the Quran
and the Bible and all of those things,
I just think, well, I don't know why we need,
I mean, look, we can talk about this another day
because it's going to take hours, isn't it?
I don't know why we need any of it.
People say like, oh, you should pick and choose
and like interpret it the best way and the worst way.
For me, like, just be nice to people around you
and like, you know, read Harry Potter or something.
No, I'm with you.
I think these are ancient methods
for people in a cultural context.
And people want to hold on to tradition.
And so they need this tradition.
And I hope that people keep reinterpreting this tradition
to fit modern ethics,
where we're going in more progressive direction of
getting away from 7th century, 1st century,
5th century BCE, perceptions of the world, right?
Like we need to advance.
We don't even do things,
even stuff that was like 20 years ago,
we now go like, oh my God, like,
I can't believe we used to do that.
So like 2,000 years ago, 3,000 years ago,
get it, I don't be ridiculous.
I don't want those books to tell me how to live my life.
I want, you know, my friends and family.
And I think we can, I think we can agree on that, can't we?
Yeah, we could pick the good.
I mean, we could say, hey, this is a good thing.
This is good stuff.
No, I mean, I'm just being,
I'm being difficult now.
Well, I mean, honestly, if we learn from experience
and from predecessors who come before,
whether it's science, hey, we found out, okay,
Galileo discovered this,
like we learn things along the way
and we throw away bad ideas,
recognizing certain ideas are bad
and try to capitalize on the things that work and are good.
Couple more super chats since our discussion
went off of all of the cold stuff.
Alan Bird, does Andrew still think XJWs
who listen to Lloyd Evans,
a YouTube channel have swapped a dangerous cult,
won a less dangerous as he claims in a video?
Yeah, well, okay, I can't go into it too long
because it'll take too long,
but this was, I had a fallout,
a falling out with Lloyd Evans.
Not so bad.
I don't think he's the worst person ever.
He's fine.
He's just like,
he's the only person I've ever had
like a public falling out with, I think.
Really?
Yeah, well, he was,
so for those who don't know,
Lloyd Evans is like the guy
or one of the guys of the XJW,
Jehovah's Witness community,
and he had this big thing happen where,
and he speaks about this,
one of the biggest things he talks about
is exploitation of,
again, I'm worried about saying the words on your channel,
but just like young people in a sexual way or whatever.
And he was then found to have gone on this big trip
to Thailand where he was engaged in relations
with adult versions of those,
but paying money.
And there's a very difficult thing here,
because on the one hand,
people are donating or contributing to his channel
and stuff for the work that he does
against this kind of transportation.
Let's use that word of humans and that kind of thing.
And at the same time, he was engaging in it
and lying and then being honest and lying,
but it's a whole big thing.
On the other hand, it's his personal life.
It's up to him to do what he wants to do.
With his life.
So those are the two arguments,
and maybe the truth is somewhere in the middle.
I don't even know.
I interviewed him,
and he sort of just denied loads of stuff
and didn't really take much responsibility.
And I didn't know too much about it,
but then I started getting message after message
from XJWs who said to me,
this isn't okay.
You've only given one side.
You didn't give him a hard enough time.
He's let us all down.
So I said, okay, I need to speak to the other side.
When I told Lloyd that,
he got really upset with me
and said he was going to sue me and this and that.
So I was like, right.
Well, I definitely have to speak to the other side now.
And there's a lot of bad stuff being said about him.
Now, I'm not of the belief that anyone is all bad or all good.
So I don't believe,
I don't believe he's the worst person ever.
I just think he did a lot of stuff that,
and he's dealing with stuff himself.
He's a victim himself of growing up in a cult.
At the same time as doing all this,
I did a YouTube course on how to become a YouTuber.
And I noticed that YouTubers, ourselves included,
engage in a lot of cult-like activities and personality things.
You know, icons, we're told.
This is the one I chose to do, the class I took said,
rituals, say certain things over and over.
So you're on the edge with or whatever,
have these lights in the background.
All these things are like quite culty.
Non-believers was a big one.
A lot of YouTubers have these arguments,
public spats with people all the time,
because it's like, oh, they're the bad guys.
They don't believe in this channel, but you guys do.
There are all sorts of psychological techniques
that are typical of cults and religions
that work for YouTube leaders.
Right.
So I picked up on some of the ones that Lloyd does,
particularly the fact that he had apparently
been exploiting certain people
and treating some of his people badly.
That's what they said to me.
And I said, you know, you've swapped a dangerous cult,
as in the JWs, which is dangerous in certain ways,
for a less dangerous one, which is his or my,
or your, or anyone's YouTube channel.
But I think a non-dangerous YouTube channel,
like Amanda Montel says, or the non-dangerous cult is fine.
It's a fitness guru or meditation or something.
So that's the point.
Yeah. Cause cult could just mean a group of people too,
that have a common goal or common, whatever it might be,
that you're trying to center it around.
In fact, I use language purposely
when super chats come in or I'm joking,
or I join the Patreon if I want true salvation.
Everyone who watches knows I'm joking,
but you kind of wonder, like, are there people who will,
maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe there's some people who are like,
hold on, I really think there's something to this.
I don't know. But I purposely say like,
but the, but the joke's part of it.
It's a joke.
But that, it's a joke, but you are doing,
and that's, it's not culting a bad way.
I think cults are good when they're like a three out of 10,
or a four, they're actually a force for good,
or a four out of 10.
So I think it's good because what you're doing
is you're using in-group humor, right?
Right.
Which, which reflects on the stuff that you are satirizing.
And it's, it's words and humor and language.
We're showing how the sausage is made.
And I don't believe for a second,
you're purposefully doing the, you know,
and all that I'm purposely, it's just funny and it's fun.
But then the people who are on your channel,
that they know this is only stuff that we'd recognize,
and you feel part of something,
and I don't think there's anything wrong with that.
So that's why I said it's a less dangerous one,
the Lloyd Evans one, than J.W.'s.
And one more thing I find,
because people who leave the faith are scared of hell,
this is a real fear that,
that people have to go and get like therapy for,
is I like, I make a mockery or a joke of those ideas.
Well, guess what?
Guess who's not ever going to hell now?
Like, you know, thanks for joining the membership program
or whatever.
I make very bad ideas humorous,
because I find them as mythology.
We've invented these ideas to make people
walk a certain way, talk a certain way,
act a certain way for fear,
or even at some points there were times where indulgences
were involved in the church
to try and keep people from going to hell,
or get them out of purgatory, whatever.
Anubis, fire, thank you for the super chat.
The methods of manipulation are the same,
regardless of the targets.
I'm with you on however you run this channel.
Thank you.
Well, fair enough.
I think this is the whole like,
methods of political manipulation,
things like that.
Okay, yeah.
More the grim,
thank you for the super chat.
The clergy project provides support to clergy
who no longer believe,
includes job training, I think.
Yes, they're recovering from religious,
religion foundation to help people.
Some people are like you said, 55,
they just can't honestly live with themselves
anymore doing what they're doing.
So they need therapy, they need help
on how do I transition from where I'm at,
I've built a career out of this thing
I no longer believe in,
and I can't honestly do this with clear conscience.
So yeah, I would go look into that more and more.
I think just to make sure I did cover every super chat here,
we went off into the deep, deep rabbit rather Andrew,
I didn't expect us to go into,
but I look forward to having conversations
with you and getting into there.
Man, I don't know if there's anything else you want to say,
I want to give you the opportunity to say.
No, I'm all done because anything,
we'll just talk all night.
It's like, it's great talking to you though.
This is fantastic.
Yeah, we will do it.
You're going to be in my show soon.
And yeah, like you said,
if people do come over,
do say you came from here because it's always nice to know.
And then hopefully I'll be able to send some people back
to Derek so you'll have a bigger community next time
and we shall grow and grow until we can take on Professor Dave
and beat him up.
He's actually, yeah, he's got a successful channel.
Join our cult today before it's too late.
Here we are, right?
Andrew, I really appreciate your content.
Keep it up.
I think Scientology and cults is the way to go.
And subscribe to this channel, like this video,
drop a comment, share it with somebody else,
and never forget, here's our cult motto, we.
Our myth vision.
Oh, I like.
