Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm the host, Derek Lambert.
Thank you so much for tuning in.
I'm gonna be talking to Dr. Richard C. Miller.
Dr. Miller, you have an extensive CV.
You've been three master's degrees.
You had your PhD, you know, a thing about Christianity
as you were one, similar to me.
We were really crazy, I guess, extreme.
There's various forms, of course.
Flavors of Kool-Aid out there,
and we were drinking that stuff.
So you have a book, Resurrection and Reception,
an early Christianity that is a very dense,
very educated, sourced book on antiquity
and understanding the Jesus movement
in the earliest literature we have,
and formulating what I would say is a historical observation
of the literature and the cultural background
from inscriptions, archeology.
What were the Greeks and Romans and Jews
doing and believing before, during, and after this time
that we would say the New Testament is claiming to happen,
right, first century Judea, Galilee in this region
in the Middle East.
And, you know, one of the questions I have recently
encountered, or even one of the challenges,
I was on a show the other day.
It was a discussion that turned into a debate
about four hours of headache at the end.
It went south toward the end.
But I said, look, man, we're dealing with literature
that's loaded with legend, myth,
and they're like, how do you know that?
And I'm like, you know, they're on the spot
as more like a challenge type thing,
and I'm already burning out on my energy here
needing to eat.
And I'm like, okay, first of all, you're looking,
if you compare, you just compare the genres
and look at the types of literature
that's contemporaneous to this stuff,
you're gonna see that, that's legend and myth and such.
But after the live stream,
I realized a better thing that could have been said,
you always realize after, and that is,
why not go to the ancient elite educated people of the world
and let them tell you what legend, myth,
fabuli or fables are?
And so I brought you the heavy hitter,
classicist Bible scholar to come and answer that question.
Oh yeah, I think you, well, first off,
thanks for having me on the show.
I've enjoyed being a part of the vision all this time.
And so it's wonderful to be participating
in all of this discussion and sharing my research
over the years here on a public platform.
And so I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Of course.
Yeah.
So I think one of the things that is lost on people,
there's a kind of a myth that's brought,
and this has to do with kind of our whole perspective
in each world in some ways,
that they were somehow more culpable
than we are more, how you say, more naive, I should say,
more indulgent in myth than we are today,
more, I don't know, credulous, easily duped by,
or they couldn't distinguish between a myth
and something that was presented as flogable or correct
and a genuine depiction of the ancient world.
And so that's just not the case when we go back there.
It's kind of like, I think people think that this happened
so long ago in such a distant period
that people were just psychologically,
like the human species was just entirely different
in some way.
If you think about it,
you're only talking about 30 lifetimes ago,
maybe less if you're talking about the second century.
It's not that long ago.
How many lifetimes?
30.
Okay, got it.
So we're not talking about like the Stone Age
or like some like the recesses of ancient,
you know, or prehistoric ancestry or something like this.
We're talking about 30 lifetimes ago.
The hardware of the human psychology
is more or less the same as it was then.
So we haven't really changed a whole lot in that regard,
or cultures have changed in our language
and obviously science and this kind of thing.
But I would make the case that we are just as indulgent today
in superstition and myth and folk belief
and maybe more so, you know,
we're like even investing our technologies into this.
We're taking whatever breakthroughs we've had
in terms of our science
and actually enlisting them to continue this kind of endeavor
to create myths and to have cultic practice
and indulge in non-evidence based kind of constructions
or frameworks for the human experience.
And so when you go back then though,
into the ancient writing,
you could go back to Lucian in the second century.
I have a quote I pulled up from him.
And I put the source in the description just so you know.
Yeah, let me see if I could read this.
So Lucian was a second century Syrian writer.
He was a critic.
He was a little bit,
he looked with disdain on a lot of the practices at the time
and kind of, you know, especially charlatans.
And so he was a bit of a,
he was a critic of early Christians in some ways
and that shines through in his writings.
He's complaining in this text about
what they called panagyric and encomiastic
kind of myth making.
And this was where you would bestow on somebody.
A panagyric was after they died often,
you'd give them an elevated and exalted kind of story
an embellished story that's, you know,
romanticized and not tethered well
to what actually had happened.
And so this was a way of exalting someone
and this kind of thing.
And he's complaining that that's going on.
And some of the more formal history works
you could sometimes find this with regard to
especially political figures.
Any larger stuff like that.
Exactly, Suetonius would be a great example of that.
You're either a complete buffoon in Suetonius
or you're this exalted figure that, you know,
and sometimes the same figure you can go back and forth
where you've got legendary embellishment
and then you go, she changes gears and back to this
kind of works in all the fiction of a person.
And I think we talked about that, right?
He's a good example of that really.
I think this is the kind of thing
that he's complaining about.
But he says in one of his writings,
now he wrote how to write history.
Was his, you know, how history is written, literally.
It's Komodo Historia conscribenda sit, you know,
how history is to be written.
In other words, he's prescribing,
this is the way it should be written.
And he says in there, history cannot include a lie
any more than the windpipe can tolerate anything
entering it while swallowing.
And so I think this is interesting.
John Moles, who's a very famous scholar
of a prior generation, has nothing to do with Christianity.
He goes on to write, reflecting on this.
Ancient historiography aims or should have aimed
to tell the truth by which is meant to relate things
that actually happen and their established causes.
Accordingly, if an ancient historiographer
does not tell the truth in that sense,
there can only be three explanations.
One, error, two, dishonesty,
three, misconception of history's true function.
And so that was his expert opinion.
Now he's a historian of the ancient world,
not a specialist in Christian stuff necessarily.
So simply put, to put as we're defining this going along,
because I wanna hopefully in this discussion show
without a doubt why we know the New Testament
is full of fable legend myth.
And I used all three because I know that people
might pick each one and say this one means that,
there's certain definitions,
but I wanted to cover all three to just point out.
Some say complete myth, some say embellishment
or mythologizing, and they would call that legendary,
et cetera, et cetera, the list can go on.
But you're saying history as these ancients
would have seen it as what actually accurately happened
as a factual account.
Yeah.
That means if it didn't happen,
or if they wrote it and they acted like it did,
they're lying or the three examples you gave,
but then there's other categories, correct?
Yeah, I think I wanna bring this up,
not so much as to a way to frame what historiography
was in the ancient world,
but just to underscore the more fundamental idea
that they knew the difference.
The ancient people weren't confused on,
I mean, any more than we are today,
probably less so in some ways,
because today people play oftentimes,
we sacralize our, we have got sacred history
and then we've got our regular history.
Sacred history, it's almost a complete license nowadays
to embellish the hell out of it
and just create all sorts of things.
And then that's sequestered off
and you're not supposed to criticize that in some way
because that's their beliefs,
that's their, just leave them alone,
that's what they think is happening.
So, if you go on to like say the Wiki page
for the resurrection, you'll find, I think,
it's improved, but for a long time
there was a horribly biased.
I can imagine someone in like say Iran
or something like that reading our Wiki in the West
and saying, hey, you guys are doing just what we're doing.
You're kind of pedestalizing your own Western sacred
mythology and making it somehow legitimated
in your own academic circles,
just like we're doing with the Quran here in Tehran
in our Quranic academies and this kind of thing,
where it's sort of segregated off
and we treat this a special way
and yet we want to kind of bestow on it
this kind of academic legitimation that, yeah.
And so we're guilty of,
I think from an outsider's standpoint,
we're guilty of that in modern time.
In the ancient world, though,
I don't think it was quite that way
and it's back to your original point.
Yeah, so you see in the New Testament basically
from end to end and narratives,
classical narratives permuting,
in other words, giving analogical kind of variations
on the various sorts of story patterns
and myths and top away and tropes
that we find all over the place in the ancient world
that are registered within the category of folk belief,
myth, legend, this kind of thing.
And no work to distinguish them,
certainly not sufficient work.
And so, I mean, if you wanted to distinguish and say,
well, we really did see him on that mountain
and let's do some work when he was transfigured
and let's do some work to say, this isn't what you think.
I know you know this category,
you've seen it a thousand times in all of your literature,
but this is different.
We really saw him there in this kind of thing.
And so you get that a little bit in 2nd Peter 116 and 17
where, and now I think that's a second century,
you know, pseudonymous text written
in kind of a Petrine tradition.
But even that's almost a separate issue.
What you get there though, is this, you know,
he does protest too much.
Yeah, yeah.
These are not cleverly devised as some would suppose,
brethren, well, who the hell's saying they are?
That's what I wanna talk to.
Yeah.
It's kind of like, I did not have sex with that woman,
you know, like you don't have to,
you don't have to say that to a lot of people to the contrary.
But interestingly in that passage,
the, at Poptai, the verb there for,
we were eyewitnesses of his majesty,
mistranslated in our English Bible all day
and almost every translation.
If you go to LSJ, that's our big,
in fact, my computer right now is sitting on top of my LSJ.
It's like this thick.
That's there, that's the ancient lexicon,
the lexicon rather of ancient Greek
that is used by classicists all day
and in terms of growing Greek and prior
and post classical and so forth.
If you go and actually look up that verb in there,
most of the entries have to do with it being
a mystery called technical term.
It's a seer, it's not an eyewitness,
and it's not translated as an eyewitness anywhere else.
Like no one says, we're kind of using it
as almost like a court record
and we were eyewitnesses of his majesty,
like they're standing forward
in some sort of court trial or something.
But really the word there is seer,
kind of like a divine cultic seer in a mystery cult,
that's the predominantly where you find that verb
popping up is in mystery cults.
The seers, the people that are kind of the oracles
receiving their kind of the prophetic vision or whatever.
And just if I can comment on what you're saying here,
why I love what you're doing,
the best way to know, I would imagine,
to know the meaning of words and how they're being used
is to use them in a cultural historical context
and see, calculate, add up,
how often they're used in what context,
you get an idea of what they're trying to imply,
and then it's kind of a heuristic approach.
Like you go, oh, okay, hold up, this is happening here.
And that's what happened with the birth narrative.
I feel like that's one of the different people
who start realizing there's legend and myth
in the New Testament,
find different things that just make the light bulb
goes on on that one.
It might be birth narratives.
It might be resurrection account.
It might be walking on water.
Whatever it may be that seems like, whoa, whoa, whoa,
that seems a little too fancyful
for like an everyday, ordinary,
historical event of what happens in life.
And then you find other examples in antiquity,
historically, all the way out into the East
with figures like Buddha walking on water
and things like that.
You have to kind of go, what's going on here?
Is this legend, just like that is?
Or are you gonna then say, that's not legend either?
And then all things go, and now we've got all these figures
really doing these accounts, come on.
You know what I mean?
100, 100, yeah, it becomes a special,
like basically the most flagrant example we,
probably they could be found of special bleeding.
Like that fallacy ends up just governing
that entire frame of thought, right?
And so, yeah.
And I think though, and if you look at the trajectory,
like if you look at where did this go,
or what happened thereafter, how were these texts received?
Were they received as historiological kind of chronicles?
Or were they allegorized and symbolized?
And what about the art?
How were these legendary, I mean, I would say
that these texts are clearly iconographic legends
of originary figures, etiological myths
of original figures within the traditions, right?
And yet that's what we see also in artistic representation,
like if you see the icons of the say the saints,
or the apostles, or whatever, if I went into a church there,
supposedly it was from the second century in Sinai,
Greek Orthodox Church, I met all sorts of people there,
and we were there as researchers, as doctoral students.
And yeah, we got to see all of their art and things,
and it was kind of strange to go into this space
that dates back that far.
And their tradition, as they see it,
the way they've carried that forward,
if you look at their iconographic,
their images, they're very much into their icon.
And so you can see these painted images
of the saints, Peter, Paul, and so forth.
Well, those aren't photographs.
That's not, they're not aiming in their renditions,
even in paint, to present this as an accurate depiction.
They've got halos over their heads,
they've got all sorts, there's all sorts of aspects
in those paintings that are clearly meant to aggrandize
and to elevate and to create symbols out of these figures,
to create templates, even models to emulate.
And that's really, I think, what's going on in these texts.
You've got a mix of folk belief, a lot of legend,
and this is what they wanted.
This was a cultic text,
it was meant to perform in a cultic environment.
This wasn't meant to inform historians
about actual ontological events in time and space.
So let's get into a little bit of the evidence,
because people are going,
well, we've spent 17 minutes hanging out with you guys,
and you've brought up some valid points, interesting,
but we haven't seen evidence of the suggestion
that the New Testament is loaded with legend,
or has folklore, whatever it might be.
When I say it's loaded with things
that didn't actually happen in history, that's my point.
So I know several Christians that I very much appreciate,
guys like John Dominic Crossen,
who I don't follow on many cases, many conclusions,
but I can appreciate valuing the legend, valuing mythology,
finding meaning and purpose in that,
because I think we do it,
even the most staunch materialist in the world
is gonna find meaning in Lord of the Rings,
or some type of myth in modern day fiction.
It helps inform them and it helps them articulate
the deeper intuitions of humans, I think.
And that's what mythology kind of, I think does,
is it kind of exposes that narrative
that we all as humans are experiencing,
we call consciousness.
And so there's a lot to this and it goes deep,
but give us this evidence
that shows the New Testament is legend.
I mean, he was really born of a virgin, Dr. Miller.
He really did walk on water and yes,
he held the blind and turned water into wine
and all of these things, how dare you?
Do you hate God or something?
No, no, I think what's happened is it's been lifted out
as Christianity grew out of an ancient context
that now is alien to almost all of its interpreters.
Right.
And so now it's this kind of pedestalized,
sacralized set of thoughts and creeds
and all sorts of commitments and confessions
that's structured around that socially.
And so, and is no longer in its ancient context.
If you go back into its ancient context,
you'll see all of that in vivid form.
You'll see Dionysus, his signature miracle
was to turn water into wine.
Right.
And he was the one of the most famous,
he was like the rock star demigod of the ancient world.
You couldn't get him and Heracles were, that was it,
you know, everyone loved those guys.
And so Christianity is a competitive,
is coming into the onto the scene
and the gospels are competitive texts
that are entering that social space
within the Hellenistic world and the Roman world.
And that's where they're getting traction
and these texts were specifically playing on
and riffing on and crafted in such a way
that they would show their hero to be superior to
or at least on the par with.
Well, with the other ones.
So you've got a virgin birth.
Well, Parthenogenesis was not new to the ancient world.
The most famous ruler of the ancient world
had a virgin birth.
Who is that?
Alexander the Great.
And so you can go back there
and if you, I've actually done it in the book,
you could compare the birth myth of Alexander the Great
right alongside Matthew's divine birth myth
and see about, you know, I think I count 18
or something different connections across there
where it seems to be templated right after that.
Now, Alexander the Great definitely predates
a Christian tradition and Alexander the Great
when Christianity was first in its own, in Coate form
was a little known tradition
whereas Christianity was, whereas Alexander the Great
was giant, his shadow loomed over the entirety
of the Greek East.
Dominated all that it meant to rule in that world.
He was the ultimate symbol of authority in that world.
And so if you wanted to have a king of kings,
well, you couldn't avoid Alexander and the stamp
that he had on the mind of that time period in world,
especially in the Roman world.
Most of the histories we have preserved
of Alexander are actually Roman reflections on him.
And so there's a whole book I actually have
in my library here on just how important he was
in terms of imitating Alexander by almost every ruler
up through that time period.
And so it's not surprising that the king of kings
would have a divine birth narrative.
Most of the rulers had a demi-god kind of embellishment
placed on their narrative one way or another,
especially, you know, the more prominent ones.
But even some that are little known
and I cataloged that in the book, I got tired.
I got up to like, I think it was a hundred in my list.
I had, I kept a list and I didn't even include them all
in the book because I thought,
is anyone gonna wanna read, you know, 11 pages of?
It was a lot.
I could show people to hint on this and might as well
while we're here show them.
I created a documentary that is simplified version
of your book to try and help people
because it's super dense and, you know,
it isn't for the fan of heart.
Let's just be honest.
You go through a gallery and I think I documented 77
or 78 that you put in the book.
And I was like, you know, that was more
than you needed to go through.
And there were certain tropes.
Should we play it for a second and let people kinda see
what the list is and that'll help emphasize your point?
Yeah, yeah, I love what you did
with this documentary, by the way.
Thank you.
Anshia, forgive me if I butcher some of these names.
Turning to page 40, you've got Ega, daughter of Alenus,
Ania, son of Aphrodite, Alcomenie, princess of Mycenae
and Tyrens, Alconee, queen of Traeches, forgive me.
Alexander the Great on the team.
Let me go ports of each of these characters
with check marks, but I do want you to look
before we look at those graphs
at this translation sub theme chart, one through 15.
So I created these graphs that are gonna have
the green check mark and you'll notice
that one through 15 appears at the very top.
The figures are the far left vertical going top to bottom
in alphabetical order.
One through 15 matches the translation sub theme graph.
So if you need to go fact check under each one,
you can and you can pause the video
and you can screenshot and look at both and do that.
Let me just show you some of this material
because this is really important.
As you look, you'll see there's a lot of number threes,
fours, those come up a lot.
Number 11 comes up a lot in the first one.
Keep going down to the next graph.
I want people to pause.
So these translation fables, like some of those things
that pop up there, Dr. Miller is like,
ascensions, the body goes missing.
These things, which I totally could see people trying to go
that are like wanting the new testament to be
what happened historically.
But these are signals that constantly come up
in Greek and Roman myth or legends or fables.
And these really interesting ones that you would say,
okay, that fits like something beyond,
like people ascending to heaven
or a lightning bolt of Zeus zaps and like saves the day
or they get transformed into a star.
Maybe the bright morning one.
Anyway, I'm being funny because that's the title,
one of the names for Jesus, right?
Is that he's the bright morning star
and you get that in Revelation.
Of course, many Christians connect that to the idea
of the Bible, the Hebrew scriptures or Septuagint.
Anyway, those translation fables,
for those who haven't seen it,
there's a lot of them, 15.
And I think at the end of this documentary,
it's four and a half hours long.
I go through and list, I think there's 12 of the 15.
It might be 11, but it's like 12, I think,
out of 15, Jesus checks off.
Right, yeah, those are signals.
And I think one of the things I wanna point out,
well, there's two things here.
One, I use the term fable in a way
that probably is upsetting people in certain ways.
I admit that I'm not trying to upset people.
It's what Perrin referred to in his translation of Plutarch
for the many, you know, and many others
have created such fables.
And he actually gives a list of other translated,
some of which are in the book of translated figures.
And he refers to them as fables, as fabuli.
Now, that's the English translation.
The actual Greek verb underneath that,
mythologio, is obviously mythology.
You can see underneath that, to mythologize.
And so he classes this as mythology making.
And who is this again?
I apologize, I'm multitasking.
Plutarch, Plutarch, the early second century writer.
Basically contemporaries with the gospel writers
and at least after Mark.
And so, anyway, so I wanna just call that out.
A fabuli in the ancient world,
this is the Latin term for basically a myth.
And so a story, a cherished narrative
that stretches credulity, that's outside,
that's clearly an invented story
that breaks the natural order in some way.
That's clearly absurd in that sense,
but is presented as a story for its own kind of purposes
and edification, often sacralized.
And so in this case, it's translation fables.
And that's where I came up with that.
A translation is somebody that had gone
from being mortal to immortal,
to gone from being human to divine, et cetera.
And so it's somebody, it's basically a rock star
in the ancient world, somebody that has been celebrated
and elevated up and then as bestowed on them,
kind of demigod traits, oftentimes a narrative
that places them within the demigod tradition
in alignment with Heracles and Dionysus
and you go down the list.
So just a comment as we go,
those 77 you listed in your book all fit
that translation concept of going from immortal
to a divine figure in some way,
even though none of them are Xeroxed,
none of them are identical, every account is unique.
Meaning they're all special
and they're all just as true as each other.
Am I hinting here at something, Dr. Milligan?
Yeah, you're exactly right.
And really what I wanted to point out there,
and that's why I didn't have to put 77.
I could have put in all 170 in there or even 10.
I chose that many because I felt like that presented
a cross section, a sufficient cross section
of the sorts of the cluster of patterns, linguistic patterns.
This is the other point I wanted to make.
Not parallel.
Yeah, it's not parallels.
This is how in ancient texts you register
in the reader's mind or the listener's mind.
Hey, this is that kind of story.
Begin to process it in that way.
You're used to this story, now here comes another one
that fits into that.
Now they don't all have the same,
it's not like this, like you said, a Xerox stamp
or whatever of exactly the same thing,
but it'll have many of the same recurring motifs
and signals in there.
Sometimes it only requires one or two.
And classicists don't lose any sleep recognizing those.
Isis comes onto the scene.
What did you say, 12 or something?
He's got as many as anyone more often.
I think he's got more than even Romulus, I don't know.
He's basically the console of tradition.
Look, I'll share it real quick just so people can see.
Romulus scored eight, I think it was,
and he was the highest out of all the figures,
even more than Heracles.
And Jesus is on the left.
Look at all those green checkbox.
I mean, he has like an heinous, ignoble injustice.
Remember now, Jesus, according to the Gospels,
was innocent.
He gets killed, according to the perception
of the author's painting.
And there's so many variations of that.
Like, was he a rebel leader who got whitewashed
in this text, or was he actually just a guy
who was speaking on behalf of the poor,
and then he got screwed over by Jewish people
and the Romans?
Well, you know, there's so many ways
people try to tackle this.
We don't know for sure.
One thing we do know is the story,
the story, emphasizes he was innocent.
And here he is being rectified by resurrection,
or really a better one ends up being apotheosis,
where he gets translated.
Metamorphosis, vanished body,
which is why the tomb was empty.
And you were the one who showed me Matthew,
blew my mind, Dr. Miller, on how the Gospel of Matthew,
notice they go to the tomb, and the stone's still there.
But then when they, the angel comes down,
which is totally factual in history, I'm kidding,
rolls away the stone, and then they see
he's not in the tomb, what does that symbolize, Dr. Miller?
Well, yeah, how did he get out of the tomb?
Now, that's a question, right?
And so everyone just kind of assumes,
well, he's kind of like Gandalf,
who of course, as soon as you start saying Gandalf,
then all of a sudden we're into fiction land,
but he somehow had a transcendent body at that point
that was able to walk through walls,
and okay, well, that's a translation in the ancient world.
We're pulling that out and creating a theological
kind of category around that.
But he already had a category for that
in the ancient world that was governing
the cultural kind of mindset
around how these stories would have been processed.
That category, and the readers,
the earliest readers for these texts
would have been in these Hellenistic cities
where these kind of stories were right.
And so for us to go back and kind of poured in
our later theological kind of sequestered frameworks
and overlay them into that would be dishonest.
And so I'm a historian and someone that's interested
in how the early Christian movement got off the ground.
It just so happens that the earliest interpreters
and receivers of these texts admitted as much,
like we talked about Justin Marger.
He's going in and said, yeah,
this is landing squarely within that trope.
And so it's an admission right up front.
Now he complicates this because he's got,
as soon as he makes that admission,
he's got to figure out what the hell to do with that.
But in the ancient world,
this would have been an unambiguous kind of effort
to place him within that tradition that was longstanding.
Now the scandal of it wasn't that another person
was installed in the kind of Hall of Fame
through apopiosis and translation.
It was that this was a backwater Galilean,
unknown, relatively obscure and marginal
on the grand stage.
Deserving of this, according to some.
It executed criminal, you know?
I mean, this is scandalous.
And so it's the scandal part of it
that's really the front page news.
It's not so much that the story had another permutation
in another text or in another cultic tradition.
And so, yeah.
Oh, go ahead.
No, I didn't want to interrupt you, sorry.
Well, you notice, I mean, with myth,
there isn't a terrible amount of effort
to get the story straight.
In fact, that's not even the point.
It's the point was to aggrandize him,
not to have this like, you know,
chronicle of live events in the ancient world,
you know, ontological events.
And so if you see like, for instance,
the Ascension narrative,
well, where do you ascend?
Was it in Jerusalem?
Was it on this mountain?
Was it in Galilee?
At what time and place who was there?
With all the Gospels, you get a different account.
Right.
They do not square.
Yeah.
And there's no effort to reconcile that.
There doesn't seem to be the slightest anxiety
about that concern.
And so that's because that wasn't even the point.
And so, you know, it's the same thing with the, you know,
the origin of Jesus.
Each Gospel has its own kind of depiction of that.
At some point, Mark just kind of skips the whole idea.
Paul does too, because it's not,
it's just not a myth that he decided to go with
or whatever that had even occurred to him at that point.
And so, but in the other Gospels,
one of the logos, is that what happened?
You know, did the logos become flesh and dwell among us?
You know, this kind of thing is,
so this is a Platonic system of philosophy.
Is that, you know, and so the idea though,
wasn't to try and, we press these things.
I think modern systematic theologians try to press
these things into these hard,
you know, literalistic kind of rubrics.
And that was not even the point.
They were completely comfortable with having this diverse
kind of, all these ornaments placed upon their,
their founding figure and having it be coherent
or agree or any of that wasn't even the point.
Well, a couple things you brought up there is pointing out,
there's several accounts that don't line up,
meaning they have different narrations
of what they're trying to do with their story.
And I've heard it argued by some ago,
oh, there's several accounts of the myth of Heracles.
Yeah, there's several accounts of the myth of a Sclepius
or the myth of this guy or that guy or Dionysus.
There are several, I agree.
And they don't agree, they contradict.
This is what we see in the Gospels.
So somebody is picking up on this and realizing,
we need to, you know, nail various forms of this,
probably for their own social groups.
Another thing that I loved about your book,
which is why I personally,
and I appreciate you allowing me to do that,
carrying the torch of your work in that documentary,
at the end, there was this tidal wave of,
how do we know what we're looking at?
This tidal wave that you've pushed and showed like,
look, you gotta go back further into the Greek and Roman
world to see how deep and how far this stuff goes.
And that when Hellenism hit the Jewish world,
where Christianity seems to originate from,
out of, in a Hellenistic Jewish world,
which means centuries before Christianity's on the scene,
Jews are already Hellenized, especially diaspora Jews
that are not centrally right there in the heart
of Judaism in Jerusalem.
They're very mixed concocting Zeus with Yahweh.
There's all sorts of stuff.
And there's even arguments to make that Paul's God,
because he's literally talking about God,
isn't necessarily Yahweh,
and I'm not talking about Marcianism necessarily,
I'm simply saying the Platonic ultimate, right?
The ultimate source of all being.
And I just say all this to say that tidal wave forced me
to have to mention Philo of Alexandria and Josephus,
because you have a clear narrative,
the most sacred figure in Judaism.
Who is that?
Moses.
They rewrite how Moses went out.
They literally take their most sacred guy,
the most sacred scripture about this guy.
You read your Hebrew Bible right now, Moses died.
He was buried by God in the most technical Hebrew there.
God buries him.
Many scribes over time did not like that idea,
because God can't touch unclean things,
especially when kosher and the laws
start becoming enforced more,
especially Maccabean and Onward,
the Hasmonean dynasty and all.
They didn't like that God buried him personally.
So they say stuff like they buried him,
or they try to third person these things
to not have God be the one touching the corpse of Moses.
Here's Josephus, contemporary to the gospels.
Here is Philo of Alexandria, contemporary to Paul.
And they are emphasizing that Moses did not die,
but was taken and ascends up to heaven.
I mean, point, do you start going, yep, I see it.
And that's why I emphasize it.
Myth, vision, pay attention to the myth, right?
That's the point.
I love, sorry, I get excited,
but this stuff is amazing to learn.
Right, right.
No, it's, my case should be very simple.
It's only that we have a living religion
with people hanging on tooth and nail to what,
you know, I understand they find the story dear.
I get it.
Yeah, yeah.
But I'm a historian.
I'm not trying to create theological books
and this kind of thing to help people with their faith.
I wanna look at, you know, let's just back,
all you gotta do is back off just like one step
and take a look at it again.
And you see, okay, you've got a demigod son,
with sense to heaven, just like 59 other people.
And it's not that hard, all you,
if that's all you knew, the case would be closed, right?
There wouldn't be any,
there's nothing further to talk about really.
It's really, my case is really pretty simple in that sense.
Rudolph Boltman, I think is an interesting character
in New Testament.
I'm actually kind of his,
I think maybe his academic grandson
or great grandson or something.
Yeah, one of the things he pointed out,
I mean, in his New Testament mythology,
you know, he had this classic work on that was,
you know, it's pointless to suppose that moving
vertically is going to result in someone getting any closer
to an ontological place called heaven.
We already know enough about cosmology
to know that's absurd.
Right, right.
Now, the-
What are you floating off to?
Like, James Webb.
Hold on, is that Moses?
We just saw Moses, you know.
I'm teasing you.
In the ancient world, maybe they were confused.
Like, they didn't know.
Obviously, they would look up and see the stars
and they thought, is that like five miles up
or is that, you know, what is that?
They, you know, they didn't have the time.
Now we know better, right?
Now we know a lot more than they did back then.
And so, you know, is Jesus in Alpha Centauri then?
I hate to press it to absurdity,
but that's kind of where this is at.
You've got grown adults teaching at universities.
That this is a historical reality,
a fixture in western history,
and it's not even western history,
but we claim it somehow.
If I can ask one more question
because the wonderful queen of heaven up here
named Asherah, aka Ryan, she's expecting a dinner.
I'm taking her out to dinner here in a little bit.
Nice.
Go with family.
But, you know, why is that important?
Why can't you let people just play make believe?
Why can't we allow them to just play make believe?
Is it really important that we help people maybe see
that what we're dealing with is legend
and that they're not like enforcing the idea
that it's historical and everyone should believe
these things actually happen
and proselytize to the world, et cetera?
Well, there's a couple of things there.
One, I am a historian and so it is my job.
I'm not a preacher.
I'm not somebody trying to run a religious society
or something.
It's my job.
That's my intellectual,
that's me being moral intellectually
is to tell the truth about these things
and to be honest and unbiased as much as I can
presenting these just like I would any other
of these ancient stories.
You know, I don't have any confusion over Apollonias
who was, you know, it's competing in cult
right next to Christianity for quite a while.
I could have won out had the empire not adopted
the Christian tradition, but he also a sense to heaven
in those texts.
I don't think any historian of antiquity is confused
over how to interpret that.
Yeah.
And so there's that.
There's also, I think now this comes from my other,
you know, my concern over mental health.
And this is gonna sound a little crazy,
but I think honestly that our ability cognitively
to discern reality from non-reality
is sent a centerpiece to our mental health.
And in fact, many of the diagnoses,
if you look in the DSM five and four
and those in the manual for psychology,
psychological kind of maladies and problems,
a lot of it comes down to that,
the slippage of the cognitive slippage in that area,
the ability, you know, delusion and this sort of thing.
And religion is somehow kind of a place
that's given a license or sort of like,
it's kind of a no-go place for criticism in some ways,
willfully indulging the mind in that slippage,
that confusion.
You've got somebody that could be in every other respect
in their life completely rational,
but then when they get over to this particular domain
and they're thinking, all the rules go out the window.
And I see that as a problem, not as a solution,
I see it as problematic.
They might be comforts,
but in as far as we're being irrational about them,
they're false comforts.
And look, I'm gonna be upfront
and then I gotta get these super chats before we go
because I hate leaving people hanging
and I appreciate the love and support
and doing this.
I love that I'm able to do this
as something I love doing.
And that is, you know, I don't wanna take people's hope.
I understand life is hard.
And I know we talked about this in one of the previous interviews
that I finally launched when I interviewed you
about eight months ago or something.
We came down and saw you and we hung out with the fam,
had a good time and I plan on doing that again.
Is that, you know, some people,
I get wanting to think even something
that's outside of the rational mind
or something hoping that something's beyond,
that is totally, I would almost say, instinctual
and, you know, survival, right?
We're all wanting to survive.
So there's this aspect about us that's like,
I don't want this to be the end of the party.
The party cannot end.
I hope, I wish, I want the party to continue.
For some, some want it to end and that's it.
They say, I don't know, I can't read their mind
and know how factual or truthful that is.
But like, for me, I imagine people are subjective.
So I imagine some people are like, when I go,
I can't wait to rest in peace.
You know what I mean?
And shut off.
But that was just my little comment is like,
you and me relate in that,
like someone's family member died.
Goodness, we can get irrational.
We can think in ways that,
I feel like that's a place they can go to
that sometimes helps them.
And we can find examples where I imagine irrationality
might make them psychologically satisfied,
even if it's not factual.
But then there's other cases where I would look at it and go,
you saw the four kids that were drowned by the mom
who heard the voice of God, right?
And she was reading her Bible
and she was involved deeply in this biblical cult.
And I was watching a documentary about this guy.
Oh gosh, I can't get lost on it.
We don't have the time, but it's really wild.
She went from somewhat normal to full blown insane
and following this cultic path.
So any words from you before we take super chats?
Yeah, I agree with you.
And I wouldn't even go so much further.
I mean, the saying, you know,
that the truth will liberate you, right?
The truth will set you free.
I agree with that.
That goes back to Plato and Aristotle and others,
but Socrates perhaps, the concept,
the idea that by turning the lights on and seeing reality,
you know, life on life's terms,
reality as it truly is,
that that's ultimately liberating.
I mean, there could be a kind of morphine
in indulging the mind in a fantasy world in some way.
But ultimately though, as much as I can,
I want to be engaged in reality
because I feel like that's the least suffering path.
You know, if you understand things
the way they truly are,
you're not prone to make misjudgments
and create more problems.
So.
And I just want to say that I can relate to that too
as someone who recovered from alcohol and drug addiction
and things like that over eight years ago.
I really believe this.
And then super chat.
That is finding what I think is closer to reality
as this risen primate on this planet with a loving family.
It has helped my mental health
and it has helped me actually have better control
over my cognitive faculties
and helping me not go back to addiction.
And so many people run to God to get saved
from their addiction.
I get it.
I've done that several times.
I had two years clean.
I was in AA and in AA and I dove deep
into these meetings and things.
And then, you know, I got to this place
where I finally start de-converting
and really like almost honing in on different ideas,
different kind of philosophical ideas that helped me.
And then also a scientific mindset,
like why did I have addiction?
And all of that started helping me
instead of when the church used to tell me
you have spiritual malady.
You need to go, you know,
there's certain spiritual problems that are flowing you,
which is why you're doing this, or demons.
And that was even earlier
when I was in more non-denominational kind of stuff.
These are demonia, like demons that are influencing you
and causing you to do these things.
So, okay, sorry.
Super chats.
Constellation Pegasus has been here forever.
You are the Moses of this streak, Nubshkin.
Says, was the Hebrew Torah finalized
in the time of Jesus?
That's a Hebrew Torah.
If we mean the first five books, I would say yes.
Because Josephus mentions
that the five books were written by Moses
and so does Philo of Alexandria.
But I don't know if they call it Torah yet,
but it's definitely established part of Judaism
by this period.
I'm coming for the law, right?
So, I mean, whether it had received,
and we've got the Pentateuch obviously,
and the, you know, the Septuagint
and this sort of thing translated prior
to the time of the New Testament.
Largely, you know, very, you know,
mostly aligned right over the top.
And I would see that as pretty clearly galvanized
at that point in history, yeah.
I still don't think there's a canon yet, though.
That's something later.
But the idea of the law
and Moses having written these things,
yeah, that was established.
They thought, which now we,
I could do that's a whole nother,
JC, modern memory experts recommend creating stories
using journeys or 3D as aids.
Would legends, myths, and ritual do this
in low literacy antiquity?
Agricultural cycles, cultural histories,
thanks, thank you to both.
That's an interesting question.
Yeah, I am trying to understand.
Why did they indulge, right?
Why did they indulge in the cultic?
Well, so, I mean, that's part of how we even know
that it's, I mean, I'm gonna take this in a direction
that possibly JC wasn't intending,
but just let me run for a second.
So, there are story patterns.
There are folklorists.
There's, we have, I've covered in my book,
people that study fairy tales and mythic stories,
fictional stories.
One of the things that distinguishes that
from like a story about reality is that there's,
especially in ancient time, is that there's story arc.
There's a, you know, there's kind of a,
and there's one scholar created six story arcs
that are, you know, for invented stories.
And one of them is called the Cinderella story arc.
And that's where the kind of the narrative is redeemed
at the end by some, you know, grand event
that somehow reverses the whole thing, right?
And that's really kind of what we're getting
in the gospels in many ways.
But the idea of a story, a story is a powerful thing
because it doesn't assume where someone's at.
The listener could be at almost any level.
It could be a child, a teen,
somebody more sophisticated, less sophisticated.
A story has that unique kind of dynamic to it
that can engage people at almost any level.
You go see Shrek, well, grown adult,
if it's sophisticated, someone who's, you know,
seen the world can go and watch that
and appreciate it on their level.
And yet you could take a six year old in there
and they'll have a good time too, you know, right?
Like we go to the movies and purposely watch to entertain
but there's something psychological, I think,
that's satisfying in that process too.
So I imagine there is some truth to what JC's asking.
I have like 10 minutes left
and I don't wanna leave anyone hanging.
If that's okay, can we push four?
Okay, four Auker, forgive me if I butchered your name.
Love your work and your book.
That's you, Dr. Miller.
Have you had a discussion with Bart Ehrman
about your ideas?
Thank you.
You know, it's kind of, in all of my travels,
I think I've talked to Bart Ehrman once or twice,
my whole life.
And it was at the Society of the Local Literature meeting.
It may be someday I'll be on the show with him
or something like that here.
I respect him greatly.
I think he's an interesting, we went to it.
We both went to Princeton Seminary
as a kind of a point of commonality there.
And we're both also not religious in any way.
And so we've got some common ground there.
And I've seen his thoughts evolve over the years,
just as mine have.
And it just so happens that I've found a lot
of common ground.
I enjoy listening to him on a number of levels.
And so I'm not sure what his thoughts are exactly
on my book.
I think I've heard that he's read it.
And I have seen in some of his podcasts and stuff,
references to parts of my arguments
that they don't have to be my arguments,
but arguments where we would agree necessarily.
I think I was kind of original in some of this,
but I'm happy to see anyone take up any of these arguments
and run with them as their own in so many ways.
And so, and I think I've seen that to some extent with him.
And so it wouldn't surprise me that if we sat down
that he would find a lot of agreement with.
I don't know, Derek, have you seen his perspectives
on the resurrection and what little I've seen
seems like it would find at least some alignment
with some of the views that have.
Some of it, yeah, there's certain things,
especially the legendary tomb,
this idea of the empty tomb being legendary,
even though you are willing to entertain missing body
as part of a forced coercive translation.
But, you know, he takes the legendary tomb position.
Other than that, some of it seems to be a little traditional
in his argumentation and then also
how he understands Paul and stuff.
And so those are different things
that you and me have discussed off air a lot.
And yeah, but you guys have a lot of overlap.
And I think we're on the same side
as it comes to just trying to figure out what's going on.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Drinks, no question, just some love.
Hallelujah.
Great to see Mithvision Live, amazing guest.
Subscribe to Deep Drinks.
That's my boy David McDonald.
And he's got some wonderful interviews over there.
If I say so myself.
And thank you for showing us with love, my friend.
I appreciate the support.
Inquisitive Mind, Mithvision is the vaccine
for this crazy world.
Thank you so much, the ghost of Mithvision.
I appreciate you.
Dr. Andy in the house with a 20.
I really appreciate the love and support.
I didn't see a question when you gave me
that first super chat.
I noticed that you had another one,
but I didn't see a question
and I don't want to leave you hanging.
So I'm going to try and scroll up and find it
and see if underneath that you had dropped any questions
just so I don't leave you hanging.
I hate doing that.
And I don't like to leave anybody hanging here.
So forgive me.
Here we are.
No, that's Peter.
Okay.
Just a little bit more.
Almost there somewhere up here.
Oh, there it is.
Just some love, inquisitive.
Here we go.
Andy, yeah.
Andy, don't see a question, my friend.
Thank you for that super chat.
Appreciate it.
I just wanted to make sure I tried
not to leave anyone hanging.
Blake, do you think Jesus really told Peter
he's the rock which he will build his church on?
If not, where did the idea of Peter
being the first Pope come from?
Thank you for the super chat.
That's quite a question.
There's a lot there that goes on
and my mind just started to fire
in all sorts of directions.
So.
Yeah.
I think, so Mark, obviously this is where
we're first getting this, right?
Is in Mark.
And there's a lot going on in Mark
in terms of it being a kind of a crafted
early Christian myth.
And so it is kind of the original, right?
The original narrative thing.
And it's post 70, which is after the temple destruction
in Jerusalem.
But what often is overlooked is it's also
post 64 and that's the great fire in Rome
where Peter was allegedly killed.
And so he was killed according to legends under Nero
and so was Paul.
And accused of, as the cult leaders for a group
that was accused of starting that fire
and with confessors.
According to that,
it was in a book you might be writing.
Are you hinting at a book you might be writing?
So there's nothing going on there.
But Peter is, he rises very early
as kind of the chief trait in him alongside Paul.
Obviously Peter and Paul, we talk about them.
James also and others.
But so Peter ends up becoming within that trajectory to Rome
sort of the pinnacle of that tradition
that goes all the way back as one of Jesus students.
And so I think that that particular passage
was crafted in a way that would legitimate him in that.
And so I do not think it goes back to historical
kind of moment with Jesus.
Thank you.
I hope that answered your question, Blake.
I appreciate it.
I'm sorry, my time is so,
I don't wanna be castrated like you're in us.
So Dr. Andy, again, thank you for the super sticker,
my friend.
I really appreciate the love.
And then Peter Boyle, thank you so much.
I hope I pronounced your name properly there.
I didn't see a comment underneath that.
Let me double, double, double.
Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter.
Thank you so much for that.
I don't see one.
Sometimes I check because Dr. Miller,
sometimes they'll super chat
and then like there's a comment or something or a question.
I just don't wanna leave anybody.
Thank you for the love and support.
Lucas Hunt, what does mythology have to say
about the naked youth in Mark?
Ask Dennis that one, right?
The naked youth.
Yeah, that is a Dennis question.
He's, it's, in my opinion,
there are some questions that we just can't answer.
And some of that is, I think it's just in our humility.
There's, in theology, there's the idea
that we should be able to answer all the questions, you know?
And historians don't have that, they shouldn't anyway,
have that kind of hubris that we just know all about it.
But there was something going on there.
Now, I'm not accusing Dennis of hubris.
I think he's got as good a theory as any.
And one of the things I love about Dennis is
he's willing to put his neck out there
with certain kind of hypotheses and run with them.
And he's got one regarding that.
From my standpoint, you know, I don't know exactly.
I think that's part of the mystery,
the enigmatic aspects of the narrative.
Marcus is almost like a fog machine of confusion.
It's meant to be disorienting and not give you the answers
and speak in parables and leave unsettled mysteries
right on the table there.
And it's part of its narrative strategy.
And many have talked about that in the past.
And I almost would place this figure in that cast.
I mean, I'm sure if you were on the inside,
the outside, they get it all in parables.
The inside, we get the actual story.
I'm not sure if you were there with the originary,
you know, the apostolic folks that claim
to understand this text and were carrying it forward
in terms of their own interior teaching
that you'd have a very interesting description
of that person.
But I don't know.
And so I deferred to Dennis McDonnell.
He's got as good a theory as any on it.
And then you have the secret gospel.
Mark, you've got all this stuff, so.
I have to hurry because the wife, I can hear her.
Dicta 89, you think Jesus was giving it to Mary Magdalene?
I had to ask that one.
I didn't really realize as I was reading it,
but nonetheless.
That's awesome.
That's really it.
Yeah, it's starting again.
It starts to fall off the vanishing point.
If you want to postulate regarding a historical Jesus
and any other relationship with someone named Mary Magdalene,
there's there are plenty of scholars
that have kind of speculated along those lines.
Obviously, what was it the last temptation
to move you out a generation ago or whatever?
It's definitely playing with that idea
or that central to it's kind of the movie script.
Right, right, right.
Yeah, I don't know.
At that point, it's what I would say though
is he had sexuality.
If there was a dude.
He would have had to struggle with the same thing as me, dude.
Yeah.
The idea that he was asexual, I think, is off the table.
That wouldn't be a healthy human being, and so.
Sit down, Zumaq, forgive me if I butchered that.
What's Dr. Miller's opinion on Islam?
Was it an outgrowth of some kind of
heretical Christianity Neo-Jews?
If Christianity is a myth, so is Islam, right?
Islam, it's interesting, we've got,
so Christianity is basically a religion
centered around Christ or our figure.
Islam is about the book.
Muhammad is almost secondary in that sense.
Christianity is supposed to be about Christ
and the book is secondary.
I don't know if that's the case in every tradition,
I think.
Right, you've got plenty of Biblicists
that are elevating the book even higher than,
some of them you kind of wonder if you brought Jesus down
and he corrected them if they would even accept that
regarding their book, you know?
So they're so fixated on the book.
But Islam has its own kind of origin story,
its own mythology around where it arose.
I did take a doctoral seminar on the history of the Quran
and its interpretation.
We did spend a couple weeks dealing with the origin story
and unpacking that in different ways.
It's enough to say, I think that it's a product
of its time in Arabia and in that world,
it's got a lot of the same kind of poetic patterns
and scholars have unpacked that.
It's a little bit difficult to study because it's taboo.
And so, you know, there are,
I think in the Christian West,
we're allowed to interrogate Christianity
with full force often, whereas in the Islamic world,
that's, you know, modulated quite a bit
through the kind of the politics of religion
and the different pressures and forces that are there.
But definitely it was a religion with its own,
you know, as you would expect,
it has confluence with what was prior.
Zoroastrian was largely kind of the predecessor,
the Zoroastrianism predecessor to Islam
with some Christian influence.
But we just see the trajectory of Persian
and Arabic religion coming into that time period
and producing this kind of monotheistic system
that was centered around the book.
Thank you, thank you.
Jamie Waldron, thank you for the love, Jamie.
Always there on Facebook and I appreciate the love,
my friend.
Blackface Jimmy Kimmel,
was Paul the inventor of Jesus Christianity?
Inventor, I think he was,
so he was a very inventive person, a cult leader.
He says so in Galatians one and two,
go back and read it, it's very interesting
that he says he didn't get any of his content
by consulting with anyone,
that it was revealed within him.
And the word there is, you know, apacalupta,
it was an apocalypse within him or an internal revelation.
He kind of sees himself as a prophet in that way,
as somebody that's receiving kind of
the internal vision of reality
and some special kind of connection
with the mystical realities of his spiritual tradition
and his culture tradition.
And so he's making stuff up,
it's kind of a long way to get around that,
you know, from a secular,
humidist standpoint as I look at that,
would anyone in our modern time get away with that?
Who would get away with that?
If they, especially if they admitted it.
I was gonna say, some like gurus or cult leaders might,
but I don't think they're gonna tell you they're, you know.
Exactly.
So it's a little bit like Dianetics
or something in that way, you know,
you've got Elrond Hover having this kind of insights
into half a trillion years ago.
Anyway, so yeah, he's a cult leader
and he's highly independent and he tells you so.
If you read Galatians there,
he actually makes fun of the early tradence
of the tradition, the so-called pillars in Palestine,
you know, the super apostles as he mocks them.
And so he thinks he's,
but I don't think he's responsible
for the entirety of the tradition.
I think what you get with the gospels
and further content in the second century,
some of which is in our New Testament
is an effort at reconciling all that
into one kind of system that looks like it could sit
in one basket together.
And so.
Thank you so much, Dr. Miller.
Dr. Andy, again, thank you for this.
Wasn't in case of Jesus, the resurrection,
the trigger for the embellishment and the myths?
Whereas in case of others like Romulus or Dionysus,
other reasons were present at the time
to get them in that Hall of Fame.
In case of Jesus, the resurrection,
the trigger for the embell...
If I'm understanding your question correctly,
because I'm a little confused,
are you suggesting the crucifixion?
Is the trigger for the embellishment?
Or like, is there like a cognitive dissonance explanation?
Or what, I guess it depends on
whether you think that in historical Jesus,
I'm a little confused by the question,
are you gathering?
I think I see what he's saying.
He's saying is, was that the impetus
for the rise of Christianity?
And I hear that a lot,
that people say, if he did rise from the dead,
then we wouldn't have a religion, right?
Right, right.
And the logic goes backwards then from there,
then therefore he must have risen from the dead
because we have a religion.
Otherwise it wouldn't happen.
Which is false, because we see all sorts of other cults
rising and doing all sorts,
having all sorts of success in the ancient world
that had apotheosis stories that,
and it wasn't necessarily, which came first, right?
That's the question.
Was this bestowed upon him because he was significant
or was he significant because this was something
that actually happened or were we bestowed on him
in terms of acknowledgement?
It's a little of both in some ways.
It didn't happen, I don't think.
I mean, let's start with that.
It's interesting that the story,
especially the mark and content,
the earliest we have of the story coming in narrative form
is in Mark, okay?
And in that text, it's part of the mark and secret.
It's part of the stuff that's hushed.
Like, don't tell anyone or they didn't tell anyone
and they ran to Galilee afraid, right?
That's how the whole narrative ends.
Well, why didn't they tell anyone?
Why is that a necessary ending?
That's a bizarre ending, by the way,
but it made sense in the ancient world.
A lot of abrupt endings to narratives in the ancient world.
And so, but why didn't they tell anyone?
Well, that explains why no one knew of this story
for decades, or that it didn't break
until later and somewhere else, right?
And so, so that's kind of,
I think the best way to describe it is that
it was a bestowed story in Matthew.
I see Matthew as a second century,
early second century text.
But in there, you've got the counter,
the alternative story of him being stolen by his disciples.
Lest the latter crime be worse than the first
or whatever they didn't want to accept it.
So that was kind of the argument was
that this is an even bigger hoax
than the original hoax of Jesus himself
as a person who gets killed as a pretender, right?
And so, did they steal his body?
Why would they do that?
That's the question, really.
Well, they didn't do it because they wanted him to be,
okay, you killed him,
we're gonna install him in the Hall of Fame anyway.
So we're gonna steal his body
and make sure that everyone has,
that to give rise to this myth,
to bestow on him the highest, most exalted myth,
the same one that's bestowed on the Caesars even.
And so, they're taking a criminal,
someone that's been charged, he committed a crime,
you know, the whip in the temple
with driving out the money changers.
If I did that, if I went to the local mall
or whatever and started doing something like that.
Or local courthouse, let's say, yeah.
Yeah, I could expect to spend the night in jail
and, you know, this is clearly crime.
I'd imagine more than a night, but yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, and he, you know,
it's not an accident that a couple of days later,
he's hanging on a cross.
And so, you know, he gets prosecuted for that
and that was the sentence.
And a lot of, the Gospels wanna make it
into a different kind of story where he's, you know,
this or that, or he's making all these claims.
But if that crime hadn't happened,
I don't think the story would have, you know,
that's what precipitated it.
And so, anyway, I'm going around about way just to say
that it's a bestowal, I think, on their hero
in order to redeem what would otherwise
be completely disgraceful that is his execution
as a common criminal.
Two things, just mentioning that.
And then we have Aaron Adair.
I'm gonna go ahead and pop his up
to make a point about this, though.
Thank you, Dr. Adair.
Get his books as well,
then documentaries highlighting his work.
He's a scientist and he's an enthusiast.
You could call him an amateur Bible scholar, if you will.
And like, I really, really love learning from him as well.
Thank you for that.
But just pointing that out,
you play around with both possibilities,
complete legend, where they would have concocted a narrative,
where his body went missing,
because we have all these narratives
where bodies go missing and we aren't saying
those are historical.
There may be accounts in antiquity
like Alexander the Great we've heard, right?
Tries to throw himself in the river.
Why?
To get rid of his own body and his death.
So people would think, the gods must have took him.
And there's a contemporaneous story of Calerho
with, it's like a poetic kind of,
what is it, a novel, something like that.
And the man who loves her is going to her tomb
because she had died, or they thought.
And grave robbers took her and like took her off
and they go in the tomb and she's missing
and he starts going, which one of you gods envied me
and took her from me?
That was my love.
And he wanted to also be taken.
But immediately her body's missing
and he thought one of the gods took her.
Like that was like the immediate signal.
And that's why you're saying in your work,
parallels are cool and fun and possible.
And even likely, the stronger there's some parallel
significance and you can maybe see they're in the same genre,
maybe even the milieu, they're written in Greek,
things like that, like Dennis McDonald might show
or others might parallel certain things.
But you're also saying the linguistic fabric
that you're looking at, you can't escape
what we're talking about with legend, myth.
It is a linguistic thing.
So the final question in that vein,
this is a perfect launch off with Dr. Andy
with the 440 people watching right now.
And that is this.
I've had apologist that I've encountered
and engaged having conversations.
I don't like debates
because I don't care for dick measuring contest.
I'm gonna keep it very blunt and honest.
I don't care for that.
I really don't.
I'm interested in conversation
and like good faith conversation.
Not, I got you, haha.
But I asked like, how can you not see
to some of the apologists?
Like my friend, Michael Jones
and some of the other guys,
how can you not see that when you have guys
being born of not just virgins, right?
They are virgin births as well.
Like Perseus mentioned by Justin Martyr,
the list can go on and on.
We have, like you said, Alexander the Great.
We have the birth of Plato,
which is mentioned in Plutarch, virgin births,
but also miraculous divine births in lists ones
with Zeus and Apollo and the list goes on,
and we have miracles of raising the dead
by Heracles, by Isis, by Asclepius big time.
We have healing the blind,
same characters I just named,
also do all that, Dionysus turning one on one.
List goes on and on and on.
How do you not realize this is fiction
that we're talking about with Jesus?
And they go, this is the one
that actually happened historically.
And they'll give weird analogies about,
there was a fiction written about a ship that sank in 19,
maybe 1898, I'm just throwing out a number there,
date, I don't know.
And then therefore it kind of predicts in a way
a lot of parallels to finding the Titanic ship
that actually historically sunk.
And I told them, I want your comments,
I said, if Titanic sunk and three days later
with all the members on it,
it resurrected from the bottom of the sea
and everybody on it was alive,
then we'd have a miracle in my opinion.
But like, what is this?
Anyway, what do you think?
It's extraordinary claims, like Sagan said,
extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, right?
Now that evidence is not forthcoming
in the Christian tradition.
Instead, what they're doing is basically giving
instances of many of the same,
these are story patterns that were vividly present
in the ancient mind.
And they're drawing on that left and right
throughout the gospel tradition.
And the earliest writers, the receivers,
like Justin Martyr, admit as much.
They go ahead and deal with it as such.
And so this idea then that this is this kind of sweet generous,
that's kind of one of a kind story
that otherwise didn't exist.
I've seen so many different apologists try and argue this.
Well, you don't even need apologists
if this were plainly the case.
You don't need like an army of people defending.
You just don't.
It's because the tradition's being propped up.
It happens to be Western sacred mythology
and a living religion.
And so there are a variety of people
that are trying to defend that tooth and nail
even to the point of absurdity.
And so if you get back into the ancient texts
and see what's going on,
they're running a cult right alongside the other cults
right down the lane.
If you go to Corinth, Alexandria, Ephesus, Rome,
any of these cities,
they're following a lot of the same stock patterns
and these same story patterns.
And the story of Jesus is fitting in
with a lot of the same narrative contours
that we're getting with any of the other,
most any of the other major iconic figures
in that cultural kind of context.
And so for us to be mistaken on that
is really our fault at that point.
Yeah, or willingly indulging in the myth
of thinking that it's not.
But just final super chat here.
Forgive JC, we hear JC.
I gotta go.
Intrigued by Daniel Unterbrink's hypothesis of Jesus
as a mashup of real Judas of Galileans
documented zealot actions like temple cleanse
plus Paul's visions, plus mimesis by Marcian
and gospel author's thoughts.
Woo!
That's a whole nother show.
A whole nother show to discuss, yeah.
Yeah, I don't wanna leave you hanging
but I really think maybe we can have another hangout
and maybe address some of the, go more into the weeds.
I don't wanna get divorced
if that's okay with everybody, you know.
That's what I'm saying.
The Queen Doth Call, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I just, I'll give you my thoughts here.
It's interesting.
It's interesting to see that Judas Galilean
actually cleanses the temple, okay.
Did the gospel authors lift this Judean figure
who did actually cleanse the temple
and then paint that onto Jesus?
We don't know.
Did Jesus really cleanse the temple?
We don't know.
I mean, we can say what a text says
but we don't know if that happened or didn't
and that's why reconstructions of the historical Jesus
are like, interesting, fun, but speculative
and to know what actually happened
is just gonna be, you know, depending on the scholar's view.
So, and then Jamie Waldron again, thank you so much.
I personally have to go, Dr. Miller,
but I just wanna say for me, I really value your information.
I love learning from you.
People can read your book.
It's in the description.
If you can afford it, if you can't afford it,
you can get a version even though the sources
are extensive in your book
and they really go deep, but if you can't afford it,
you can watch a documentary
that gives you a very simplified breakdown
of much of what is said in there.
But sometimes when you break language down
into smaller forms to try and simplify it,
you might lose some of the debt
that is actually there in that book.
It's a magnum opus of resurrection reception
just hits it hard.
So final words from you.
I appreciate you, sir.
I appreciate the charts that you created
and shared within this live stream.
And that is worth the price alone of the documentary
just to see those charts.
I should have consulted with you when I wrote the book
because that would have had a lot of clarity for people,
but you did a really wonderful job
presenting that documentary.
If you would have consulted me,
I would have hated you at the time
because I was super fundamentalist.
When you published it, I probably would have been like,
you're from Satan, are you kidding me?
I started a poll at the beginning and just said,
do you see the legend in the New Testament?
And 71% said yes, 28% said no, 379 votes.
So I appreciate you, everyone.
Thank you.
I'll try and do more lives more often.
We'll see.
I've got some stuff coming up.
Stay tuned and thank you.
Time.
