Dom we just found out Jesus is killed. It looks like Caiaphas maybe? I mean we're just
throwing names out there. Someone knew he's going back out to the same place each day.
They caught on quick. This guy is under their skin, especially when he's protected by the
crowds by day. They capture him. They kill him. Boom. End of story, right? We're all just talking
about something that happened in history in his past. But then the largest religion in the world
from this man's story exists on planet earth. Yeah. And we have to start small. Okay. So
what do you think, and using all your knowledge and skills as an expert in this,
happened with this movement? You would think once he's killed, that's the end of it. In fact, you
said that that typically is the expectation, right? Like, okay, yeah. So he's killed into the
movement, right? No. The movement is alive. Yeah. Why do you think the movement stayed alive?
And I would underline that any reason I give for why doesn't in any way negate the fact of that.
It did. Sometimes we argue about this. We make it sound like, well, I don't know why. So it must
have happened. Yeah. The first thing is immediately, as soon as we can get after the death, whether
you're talking about the ascension or the resurrection of Jesus, as soon as we get to his
followers, let me focus on them. They're in Jerusalem. As far as we can tell, when Paul first
gets involved with them, that's as early as three years or so after the death of Jesus already,
he doesn't go wandering around Galilee saying, I'm looking for Jesus guys, I'm looking for Jesus
followers. He seems to know it's Jerusalem. Now, supposedly it's in Galilee. I'm doing it negatively.
I'm going to say, how could it not have worked? And I'm not saying resurrection. Oh, it was
impossible after. No, of course not. Take all of that anyway you want. Focus on the followers.
Had they stayed in Galilee, kiss Christianity goodbye by any name, Jewish Christianity, Gentile
Christianity, because after the Great War, they'd be finished. Now, what happened as far as we know
is in there, they're in Jerusalem immediately. Now, they might be there because they think Jesus
is coming back and God knows he wouldn't come back to Nazareth because that's a dump. So he must be
coming back to Jerusalem. Could have stayed in Nazareth waiting for Jesus. So they're in Jerusalem.
Now, if you're in Jerusalem, you're in a pilgrim city. You're, you're linked into the whole Jewish
world. That's the first move that was absolutely crucial. And the second movement is somebody like
Paul or the movement out into the Gentile world. If they had not done that, if they had stayed in
Jerusalem and been slaughtered as the inhabitants of Jerusalem were between 66 and 74, well,
at least in 70, let's say, again, it might not have survived. I'm not taking it for granted. Of
course it had to survive. I'm striking, saying points in which it could not have survived. They
stayed in Jerusalem, excuse me, they stayed in Galilee. They came to Jerusalem, but they left
Jerusalem. I think the tradition is right. James the brother of the Lord, you remember, was executed
by a high priest of the Anaheim family, same family they had also much trouble with,
and was powerful enough to have him dethroned as high priest by the Jewish, the Roman governor.
I think probably at that time a lot of the Christians in Jerusalem got out of there in 62.
Not because they knew the war was coming in 65 or because God decreed it, but because they just
see what happened to James, who was the leader of the Jerusalem community, bigger probably in
his own way than Peter or Paul. He had his own ideal community there, I think. So I would think
most of them fled. There is that tradition of fleeing Transjordan to Pella. I think they got
out of there. Now, basically, if in the war of 66 or 74, and the next war of 115 to 117 in the
North Africa, and then the war again of 132 to 135, of all the Christians that's called them,
had stayed there, they probably might all be dead. But by then they were out, and they already were
Gentile Christians, or first of all, there were those God-fear Christians. So the pattern was
they managed to move one ahead of the tide, one ahead of the avalanche, like skiers coming down a
slope, saying ahead of the avalanche is pursuing them. If they don't, that's the end. So without
saying anything mysterious, they got out of the Galilee at the right time, out of Jerusalem at
the right time, and were already into the diaspora. Now, it took, of course, eventually, the decision
of Constantine. Constantine had just seen the Roman Empire try to work as a four-way operation
with two Augustuses and two Caesars didn't work. Constantine said there's going to be one empire.
There's going to be one emperor, me. There's going to be one new city, Constantinople.
Hmm, what about one religion? To hold the whole thing together. This paganism doesn't work,
it goes this way, it goes that way, it's too many gods. What about one religion?
It can't go to Judaism because Judaism has rebelled so much against Rome.
It's not because they demand male circumcision. If Constantine said, I'm going to be
converted to Judaism, do you think there wouldn't be exceptions made for Constantine?
And is aristocracy? Of course, he looks at the Christian religion. What does he see?
A religion modeled on the Roman system. It looks just like us. They have a pope who's kind of like
an emperor, they have bishops, they kind of look like us. They're the religion us and we're the
political them. What he saw in Christianity, of course, had been modeled on the Roman Empire.
So no wonder he could see the thing. He said, I don't for a minute, by the way, think his
conversion was insincere. It must be like a thunder clap. Of course, the Roman Empire,
that's the glue that'll hold my empire together. And I would not for a moment deny he had a revelation,
but revelations make sense. You know what I mean? If a little Christian girl in Ireland
has a revelation, it won't be Cali, it'll be the Virgin Mary because she expects it.
And she will be robed in blue and white, which are the Mediterranean sky colors,
not the Irish sky colors, which are darker and darker. So, of course, Constantine is trying to
see, how can this be held together? A religion that looks just like us. I can deal with the pope,
it makes sense. We can have a council at Nicaea and I will sit down with all my bishops. I will be
the kind of the supreme bishop. I will be Bishop Isimo. That's lovely. Love will work beautifully.
It made absolute sense to him. Conversions make absolute sense. You don't convert.
So, without that, I have no idea what would happen to Christianity. How did this anyone else?
If I can go back to Jesus dies, most theaters and the Egyptian and other figures you mentioned in
your book, when they die, their movement seems to go extinct. What is it that you think is different
ideologically that keeps the glue somewhat seemed together in these other movements? Is it they both
have kind of an apocalyptic expectation that, well, I might die. If I do, do you think Jesus
initially, obviously later he evolves to become God and then the Trinity and all this stuff evolves?
But out the gate, here's this guy who, maybe while he says I'm an instrument, he's not like
I'm it and if I'm not it, that's it. You kind of wonder what...
But see, he doesn't say that. But Jesus says, as far as we can see, is we should collaborate. We,
not me, but me too of course, but we should collaborate to create God's rule on earth
in collaboration with God. Now that's the message. People start doing things like Jesus. I mean,
Jesus doesn't settle down at Nile, certainly. You people all go out and bring people to me.
He doesn't. He tells the 12, go out and do what I'm doing. Do it. Go do it. So people are experiencing,
yeah, the power of God's rule on earth kind of works. Now Jesus is the embodiment of it,
but it's not just about Jesus. If it's just about Jesus, all the resurrections, ascensions in the
world won't keep the movement going. That'll just be nice for Jesus and the movement. He's
off there with God and the movement is finished. No. What works with Jesus is that he has a program
which is community-based. We, the fact that his little 12, if you will, the 12 goes back to Jesus,
if it does, that's already a microcosm of the whole. Is it fair to say the same thing with
John the Baptist? I mean, he has a we kind of program, which I think there are people today.
I can't remember the name of the sect, but that they actually follow John the Baptist and they
think that Paul is a heretic. Are they modern, Ebenites? I mean, there's different. As I understand,
John the Baptist. Now, this is again from Rene Josephus in the Gospel. Here's John's program.
We are waiting for God's rule to come. What's holding it up? Sin. That's the old ancient argument.
They must have said, oh, God, here we go again. It's always our fault. Yeah, it's our fault.
We're sinners. God's not coming. John said, okay, but there's something we can do. Remember,
the Exodus from Egypt, we came out of the desert, crossed the Jordan into the Promised Land,
out of Babylon, crossed the Jordan. Here's what we're going to do. Come out into the desert,
we will cross the Jordan, and as the waters wash our bodies, repentance will wash our sins,
we'll arrive in the Promised Land as a purified people, then of course, God will come soon.
Now, that made sense. It could be totally wrong. It was, but basically, it made sense,
and it's powerful. It gives you something you can do about it. You're marching in plain language.
You're not just preparing, waiting, hoping, praying, all of that to be doing for hundreds of years.
Now, there's a chance that God will do it. Of course, you're not going to do it.
You're just doing really good preparation for it, or maybe you're kind of pushing God a little
bit that, you know, how could I not do it? But you're imagining God doing it.
Now, John was executed, and nothing happened. As a follower of John the Baptist, Jesus had to
figure out what's going on, and I don't make him second in command or anything. I just make him
one more of Jesus of John's followers. What happened? God didn't come. If God comes, could
God move up the agenda for a week or two to save? Maybe that's not how it works.
Jesus had a conversion after the death of John the Baptist about God and God's rule,
and the conversion was from waiting for God to do it all for us. We prepare, we pray, we await,
you know, not doing nothing, but God's going to do it. No. Jesus, like a great intuition,
a great revelation, God's waiting for us. No wonder nothing's happening. We're waiting for God,
God's waiting for us. It's never going to happen. We have to collaborate with God. That's Jesus'
message. Now, he can think it's going to be over soon, whatever he wants, but that's a message
which is community-based. We. He doesn't say, I'm God. I'm settling down here at Nazareth.
You want to see God? You guys go out and bring everyone to me. Kiss the whole movement. Goodbye.
This is the final, like, this gets to the Achilles Hill of the whole thing, and it's a very important
point to me is, why Jesus? I mean, why not Theodos? Why not, you know, the Egyptian? Why
not John the Baptist? Why did this Jesus guy become deified? Get all the attributes of all
these other figures and things like that. Well, I really want to point this because
there is no answer to that. I'm going to ask you, why Martin Luther King Jr. and not one of his
siblings? Because the danger is that as we debate the fact that we've no answer, we may forget there
was a person who did this. Right. Now, in time and again, I have seen somebody who's a great athlete
and the rest of the siblings are nothing. We don't know the answer to that. Now, maybe genetically,
if we knew enough, we could figure it out. Jesus had a vision of the rule of God.
Did his brother James, as far as we can tell, didn't have the same. James's ideas seem to be
to have a, almost like a monastic group, like a kumran, living in the, in Jerusalem, called the
poor, living in probably very close to a common life. So they're probably married, like some of the
Essenes were. I think he had, I think Luke got this sort of right. There was a group called James.
That's not Jesus. That probably died out. They would have died out in 70 with the distinction.
If Jesus had said, we're setting up a model group here as an ideal for how people should
live together in peace and harmony and justice and sharing all our goods, it would have been
magnificent and it would have been dead in 70. If James had lived the next eight years, he would have
died in the Romans. Jesus had a vision and a message, which was community-based. You could
take it and you could do without Jesus. If it worked for you, if you found it worked. Now, if it didn't,
it wouldn't have worked. It was that the vision was community-based and worked.
Why, why it was Jesus who had it and not James's brother? I have no answer to that,
but nobody does. Nobody understands why in this family, take any family you want.
I don't know if Einstein was an only child. I don't know, literally, but I don't know if
his siblings, if he hadn't, I've never heard of them. We don't understand that. What we can
understand is why followers kept going with this. That's what we should be asking. What were they seeing
and if it was a totally thing based on Jesus. I'm sort of the revelation of God on earth and if
you want to come to Nazareth, you can see God and I will heal you maybe and go out and bring everyone
to me. You can kiss the whole movement. Goodbye. Would you say Paul's taking that we program of
Jesus that he's aware of, but then also finding in the scriptures like Paula Frederickian kind of
mentions in her book, Paul the Pagan's Apostle, where he talks about, or she talks about how
the in gathering and the in times, there's going to be that the nations will come.
So his we program is now going to include we of Gentile orientation. And of course,
there's many people who want to say, well, Christianity is real. You can thank Paul for
Christianity, almost like Christianity. But you, it almost sounds like in your book,
Luke acts really. I mean, if we're going to give some famous work, it's credit for really
capitalizing and making the Christian movement just how to put this successful. It's Luke acts.
It sounds like if, for example, for example, if Constantine had read Luke acts,
he would see everything that he liked. He would see all the previous governors,
like me, Constantine, they exculpated. They said all these people were innocent.
He would be quite at home with that. He would be perfectly at home with that. He wouldn't be at
home with Matthew or John, I don't think. My king was not of this world. No, he wouldn't be at home
at all with John. So you have to understand, as it goes out into the great big world,
what is congenial to it from the great big world? Paul was important without a doubt.
In the scheme of things, Luke acts is the first act, is the first step towards Constantine.
Not only the first step, it imagines it, but by imagining it promotes it. It starts it as a word.
It starts the process because Christians are nicely agreed. They don't argue. There's no
trouble between Peter and Paul and Luke acts. They're lovely together. Paul is downgraded,
he's not the apostle of the Gentiles, that's really Peter. So this fractious Paul,
who is a radical, by the way, and Luke is a liberal, make no mistakes about it. Luke will
negotiate. Paul doesn't negotiate very well. He's the radical as Jesus was. We have no record of
Luke being crucified, for example. No, Luke would have negotiated. That's what happened.
What I think you have to understand is that it is the vision, the program, if you want to use an
ordinary term, if it appeals to enough people from the ground up, you have a movement. If it's
from the top down, it may work, maybe it won't work, or it works as long as the empire works,
something like that. It was a movement from the bottom up and was set up because Jesus was who
Jesus was. As far as I can see, he didn't get wrapped up in his own power. Maybe he didn't live
long enough, who knows. But he didn't. But from the beginning, as I can see it, the fact that he
told those closest to him, go out and do what I'm doing. Go do it. Why, as I say it repeat, didn't
he simply say, I'm here at Nazareth. I'm setting up a healing shop here. You guys go out and bring
everyone to me, and I heal them, and we have a lovely movement, and it would be dead with his
death probably, instead of which he said, you go out and do the same thing I'm doing.
Yeah, so one more question on this. We can't dive into this, but Jesus, the magician idea.
I wonder if Richard Purvo went too far in his thesis, trying to make Jesus a magician.
I, a magician. I don't know how to put it. Jesus is shown in some of the earliest images of him
in the catacombs as holding a wand. Holding the wand out, for example, at Lazarus is coming
out of the tomb, and he's holding a wand. That's the image I put in the 1991 on the cover of the
historical Jesus because it shows Jesus bringing life out of death. Lazarus, you can see Lazarus
is mummified, so he's coming hop and he hop out of the tomb. You could almost decode it,
and there's women and men with him. So I put it on the cover of my book, not because I thought Jesus
did that, or was a magician, or had a wand, but because he was bringing life out of death
for a community. He's not there by himself. There's Marathon Mary and the Apostle. So he,
this is an image, like a video bite, an image for the evening news of Jesus bringing life out of
death for a community of male and female. I want that in the cover. I chose that. Not because I
thought it happened, but I thought I couldn't come up with a better image for the Jesus who's my
historical Jesus. He brings life out of death for men and women, for a community. So to understand
Jesus, if you take away the community, I can't understand, and he wouldn't have, he wouldn't
have survived. All the talk about resurrection or ascension, that has to be communicated to somebody.
Somebody has to accept that and run with it, however they understand it. Otherwise you don't
have a movement. You have a dead movement. Thank you.
