If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, there are different
tiers, as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much, don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
I have a question personally for you, Dr. Bob.
Dr. Price, if the four Gospels are fictional books evidenced by Memesis criticism,
Dr. Dennis McDonald shows in Mythologizing Jesus that Homer's Odyssey and Iliad were
used in composition as well as Euripides the Bacchae with Dionysus for the Gospel of John
and the Book of Acts, what do we make of the other letters and epistles in the New Testament?
Are they non-fictional? How close to the doctrines from the fictional writings compared to that of
the non-fictional ones? If some, like the Book of James, 1st and 2nd Peter, are forgeries,
how do the teachings there vary from the fictional books?
Well, this reminds me of what I've said about the Apostolic Fathers, that you wouldn't have
reading them. It's still very interesting, but you wouldn't know they had ever heard of Paul
and his teaching. I mean, that kind of presupposes that you're reading Paul's letters as if Martin
Luther wrote them. I mean, that's a powerful but debatable understanding of what the whole salvation
by grace thing is, but still, it doesn't sound like it at all. Just sort of generic early Catholic
stuff. And I think that's true of 1st and 2nd Peter, and especially Stoicism is all over the place
in these letters, like when 1st Peter speaks about how everything will be dissolved by fire,
that Stoic eschatology. And when James says that God is the giver of all good gifts,
even if they're trials and tribulations and all that, that's Stoicism. And Jesus has precious
little to do with anything in James. Well, both epistles of Peter are fictive. In one sense,
1st Peter is almost certainly a baptismal sermon that has been made over into a letter.
And I get into this in the third volume of Holy Fable. 2nd Peter is a pious fraud,
and it has to do with the delay of the parosia, and also an attempt to pursue the Catholicizing
agenda to have Peter praise Paul and say, well, there are people that don't read him this way,
but there's some radical nuts and so forth. It's just like ax, let's get them together.
So it's later in dealing with different issues. In terms of the teaching, I think the biggest
contrast would be a family argument that the Gospels preserve a great deal of
cynic teaching. You got to leave everything and everybody behind. That's cynicism,
diogenes and antisthenes and these guys. Just cut your ties with the world and live
via reason according to nature. Look at the animals and so on. Do they need jobs?
And God sees to what they're fed on. Aren't you more important than that?
And so forth. Whereas in the epistles attributed to Paul, it's more stoic again.
God causes everything to work together for good of those who love him. It's all good.
It may not look that way, but he's like chipping away at you, a diamond trying to get it perfect.
So that's really how God answers prayer. He's sending you challenges and so forth.
And so there's a good book on this is Abraham J. Mallerby,
Paul and the popular philosophers. And cynicism was the origin of stoicism.
Stoicism agreed in principle largely with cynicism, but it wasn't quite as radical.
It viewed cynics as sort of obsessive types that you're so afraid of being owned by your
possessions that you don't want to own any possessions. The only way to avoid it is not
to have them like Buddhism. You don't want any attachments. Whereas stoicism says that's a bit
extreme. That's kind of fanatical. The thing to do is to cultivate an inward distancing so that
there's nothing wrong with enjoying family and possessions and all that. You are ready. You
sit loose to them. If there was a fire or something like happened to Job, you'd accept it and see
what good can be made of it. That doesn't justify it, but that's not really the question anymore.
Okay, things have changed. What do I do now? Is there some way I can become more virtuous as a
result of this? There almost always is a tragedy. If it was more advisable to give these things up,
I would. That's really all you need. Otherwise, you guys are just fanatics. The cynics would say,
no, no. If you really are indifferent, and that's the word they use, adiaphora. These things are
the indifferent things. If you really felt that way, why don't you just give it up now and prove it?
And they would say, well, there's no reason except you challenging me.
And so they had much in common and had many parallel sayings, but they lived differently.
Cynics were like hippies and so on. So you see a lot of cynic material in the Gospels,
stoic material in the Epistles, though it's not incompatible, ultimately. They can live under
the same roof. You don't see soteriology in the Synoptic Gospels. You don't see Christology, really.
I mean, you see stories that were employed in the fashioning of Christology later.
What's a virgin birth all about? Was Jesus a demigod? Or what was he? It raises those questions.
Not really trying to address them. But you do see it a bit in the Epistles.
The soteriology, as Harnack pointed out so well, is do you really think Jesus told like the parable
of the prodigal son that says, you just need to repent and come back to God and he'll forgive?
Did he teach that knowing that in a few weeks' time that it all be washed away and no, you're
going to have to believe in me, the crucified one? Why don't you tell him that again? And so that,
yeah, it's very different. What do I do to gain eternal life? You know, the commandments,
do these and you will live. Well, that doesn't fit the Pauline material too well.
And so on. And there are explanations for that that are horribly heretical. I mean,
you could say, well, he's talking to Jews in the Gospels. And the whole point of justification
language is that Gentiles don't need to keep the law and he's writing to them.
That's no scandal, but there sure is a difference. And so let me pin this down a little deeper.
This is really fascinating information you brought to my attention.
Epistolary writings in ancient world was a common thing. Me and Stephen Nelson have been
talking about this a little bit and their theories out there that say, well, look, the whole thing's
fiction, meaning all the Pauline letters, none of them were technically literally written to
real people. I could see the Gospels playing a Odyssey type of narrative. There are historical
implications. It's historical fiction, maybe just like acts. Yeah, it's fictional, probably mostly.
However, they're still used by a group of people that look at them and they say, that's my Gospel,
Matthew. Oh, no, we're Luke. We follow this one. But they're fiction, we can tell. They're like a
story-ish type of narrative. The epistles seem to be, and this is just my opinion, I kind of want
you to correct my thinking or even maybe say, hey, you're on the right track, and here's why.
The epistles seem like they're written, even if they were written over time, edited by church
members to correct doctrines and whatnot, seem to be not as fiction in the sense that
they're not narrative fiction like acts or the Gospels, but that they seem to be written to real
people in real time with real issues that arose. They really follow these doctrines and stuff.
How far do we take that? I mean, are they fiction or are they real letters possibly,
even though they've been maybe edited in your opinion on the Pauline epistles later as time goes
by to real people or are they all fiction? I think they're all fiction and that the
supposed recipients are part of the fiction. This is true in other letters. Epistles, really,
and the letter is a very short one in antiquities, just a note. There are loads of them, so we can
kind of tell. There are also epistles, which are like treatises with the trappings of a letter,
and of course there were real ones. Somebody might write a long thing to a group or an individual,
and so it does begin with dear so-and-so, and then sincerely yours at the end.
But when they swarm with anachronisms like 2nd Peter does, or with, I think, clashing opinions
like 1st Corinthians does, you've got to say, yeah, it seems to me this is written to... Or
like how about 3rd Corinthians? Nobody defends that being authentic, but we have a letter supposedly
written by the Corinthians to Paul. They're worried about Gnostics teaching there who deny the
virgin birth, and Paul writes back and gives a teaching about the truth of the virgin birth,
and so on. It's obvious this is written later, but we wish Paul would have said something about
this, so let's say he did. And so that, yeah, pseudopigraphical letters are a well-known
phenomenon. They're cynic letters that are supposedly bisocrates. There's like this epistle
that's traded at Perictioni, the mother of Plato. Kind of doubt that that's authentic, and so it
almost doesn't matter what the supposed recipients are. They're narities, as they say. It's like if
Homer has Odysseus telling the story of his wanderings to a bunch of people around the campfire,
that's fictive. Homer is telling you readers that. Well, the same thing here. This fictive letter
has a fictive writer, Paul, and then fictive recipients, the Corinthians, the Philippians,
whoever, and you are reading somebody else's mail. Why not just say, I am writing a letter to you
there in Dalmatia? Well, because that doesn't have the cloud of the apostle to the Gentiles.
So with all pseudopigraphy, like the Jewish ones, Enoch, Baruch, etc., you want the cloud of great
person of the past. And so, oh, listen to this, all right. But I can't give the names of the actual
intended recipients. As they'll say, what do you mean? Paul wrote to us. We weren't around in Paul's
day. So you've got to pick somebody he could have written to. And so it's no surprise you would have
pseudopigraphy on both ends of it. And so you've got to ask to what degree
does the writing sound as if it's half of a phone conversation?
Often it does. And you've got to think, well, what is the subject here? And even on the assumption
that it was Paul writing to the Philippians or something, you have to say, well, they must have
said something to them about what's going wrong here. Let's see if we can reconstruct it.
Well, that really is the same even if it was a later bunch of readers or readers in general,
and especially it's puzzling as long as you see these very different attitudes taken toward
speaking in tongues, eating meat offered idols, women prophesying, etc. Well, hold on, didn't
he just say so and so? You begin to realize you can't really come up with any single
opponent or problem. In this part of 1 Corinthians 15, he seems to be talking to people that don't
believe there is any afterlife. In others, you're talking about people that, like Gnostics have
believed in, realized eschatology. The only desirable and feasible resurrection is the one in
baptism. You won't be resurrected out of the tomb. And so forth, it seems like you've got
different subjects. And when you differentiate them, it's not as mysterious as to who, what's
the real issue here? Well, you see there are two or Romans 9 through 11. I think there are like
three different issues being discussed there. And there were three different fragments.
So I think it makes even more sense to see them as patchwork quilts, as Van Nanen said,
because if you harmonize them all, you're going to start missing what the individual bits are
seeing on their own to be about. You're going to come up with some harmonization that now makes
and means something more compatible with each other. And you lose the whole thing, like you're
doing the Gospels, where there are, it's a bunch of pearls on a string. And they, like an example,
be a church order section of Matthew 18 and 19, I think. It has this saying,
if your brother does you wrong, go to him and try to settle it. If you won't listen to you,
bring another one of the brethren. And if he still isn't willing to reconcile,
drag him before the church. Because if two or three gathered in my name
agree on anything, it will be granted to them. Hold on there. I can see how they were joined
together. But the first one has to do with Qumran style church discipline of a wayward member,
a troublemaker. Whereas the second one is about confidence in prayer. And okay, again,
you can read one in light of the other, but you'll be missing the point of at least one of them. And
there are loads of other things like that. And to make both mean the same thing, that's going to end
real problems down the road in different ways.
