I have gone way, way too far.
Time to back up, turn around, pack your bags.
We gotta go back.
MythVision has spent several years trying to put the Bible
in its cultural historical context,
meaning what did the text mean by the authors
who wrote them in the first place?
And how do I understand what it's doing?
I found similarities in genre and mythology
and legend and narrative and history
and things that make me go,
that's very similar to what I see over here,
over here at the same period in time
or at least is influential in that period of time,
even if it was written much earlier by the culture
in which this material was birthed.
And I think I've gone too far.
I've gone way too far trying to compare Jesus to Dionysus,
for example, in the Gospel of John
with turning water into wine.
Even though Dionysus has turned milk into wine,
water into wine, there are several myths of Dionysus
and that even though Dionysus was an extremely,
extremely popular deity figure at this time,
even in the first century in the Greco-Roman world.
And why would the author craft a narrative
of him turning these objects of water into wine
at the hands of Jesus?
I mean, in that same Gospel,
you have Jesus saying, I am the true vine
or to my flesh, eat my flesh, drink my blood.
Similar things we find with the Titans,
grinding Dionysus in their teeth
and this ritual act of ingesting the deity
that we find so common and prevalent,
well-established in the cults, the mystery cults
of the Greco-Roman world at the time.
And I thought, well, maybe, maybe the author's trying
to pull in these Gentiles and incorporate these non-Jews
who are well-acquainted with these myths
by making Jesus better.
How wrong of me to even try to do something like that?
Hear what I'm trying to say, follow along.
The people who believe that literally happened with Jesus
but don't believe that happened with Dionysus
if Dionysus even existed.
The people who think Jesus was born of a virgin
in a long line of Greco-Roman divine birth narratives.
And of course, it's not just Greco-Roman
but we're dealing with the Greek and Roman world here
in which Christianity is birthed
where gods impregnate women.
They gotta make this one special, of course,
and show you that actually this virgin birth is unique
even though Plutarch mentions Plato having a divine birth
at the Dynamos, the power, and Numa,
spirit of God impregnating Plato's mother.
This is in Plutarch.
Similar language we find in Luke,
exact same Greek words, Dynamos and Numa,
for the birth of Jesus.
Stop that, Derek.
I'm guilty already, but I'm trying to paint you an example.
Okay, so please forgive me in advance.
The people who believe that literally happened with Jesus
but don't believe that Plato's or the list can go on
of demigod, heroes, gods, whatever, with their births.
Those didn't happen.
The people who believe that Jesus had this like
extreme knowledge at a very young age
or walked on water, multiplied the fish and loaves,
cast out the demons, healed the blind, the lame, the sick,
raised the dead, died himself,
rose again from the dead,
a floated up into heaven on a cloud.
Those guys, people who do interviews with exorcists
to say that humans are crawling up the walls,
demon-possessed people are crawling up the walls,
they go even further and they'll go to literature to say,
actually, guess what?
It wasn't just Jesus being born of a virgin.
Mary had an immaculate conception.
So they go a little bit further.
These people who believe that the prison breaks and acts
or some of the apostles are stoned to death
and then they're resurrected,
handkerchiefs are healing people,
just sending their handkerchiefs everywhere
or that Peter's having visions
that just so happen to coincide with Paul's letters
pertaining to how to sit with Gentiles
and that these unclean mills you can eat with the Gentiles,
the list can go on on things we can try and do.
They believe those things are true.
Those people are starting to get to me.
They're starting to become persuasive
because they're teaching me how to turn my brain off.
They're the ones encouraging me to go back,
pack up your bags, quit trying to place this material
in its cultural historical context
and find genre and myth and whatnot that has comparisons.
Quit doing that.
Let me give you an example in the Gospel of Luke
with Jesus on the road to Emmaus.
I wanna do this with Joseph in the Old Testament
and I wanna do this with the theoxany myth
that we see here in Luke.
Sorry, I think I just slipped up and called it a myth.
I meant the story that literally happened in Luke
and I wanna tell you about the stories
that didn't happen with the Odyssey
and then the one that really happened
with Joseph in the Old Testament as well.
So the Odyssey, you have Odysseus,
he goes off to Troy to fight.
Then he has this long journey in Wanderers
and whatnot gets back Athena changes his identity.
He is engaging with his family
and classicists for a long time have recognized
this is mythology, a legend, it is a story.
This did not happen literally.
So he ends up showing up
and he's playing with his own family.
He's toying with Penelope, he's toying with his own son.
His son Argos, Argo dies
because he recognizes his master
and he realizes, oh crap, you have Eurycleia,
the one who suckled him as a child washing his feet
similar to a recognition scene that we see
with a woman who recognizes Jesus
as the Messiah washing his feet.
And I'm sitting there thinking, okay, this is really cool
that eventually with all the emotions involved
reveals his identity.
Kind of like you see Jesus tiptoeing around the apostles
hiding his true identity
and eventually reveals his identity in the gospel of Mark.
Who do men say that I am, toying with them?
You the reader know though who they are.
And then you get to Joseph.
Joseph gets healed according to his father by a wild beast
and they have his coat of many colors
and the brothers are really in on it.
The brothers go to Egypt to get food
because of a famine and what did they find out?
Well, there's food in Egypt.
They don't know that it's his brother.
And Joseph is toying with them, tormenting them technically.
In the end, daddy comes from this land in Canaan
and here they are in Egypt and what's he do?
Finally the emotions burst forward
and he reveals his identity.
Here's what those people who think demons
are crawling up the wall.
Jesus was born of a real virgin,
rose from the dead and ascended into heaven are telling me.
Derek, the Bible one happened.
This is history.
This really happened.
Theodicy bullshit.
That ain't true, that didn't happen.
That is myth.
And then I read Bruce Loudon who says that actually
that myth is in the Bible and those stories are myth.
Exodus, Joseph story.
Jacob and Esau, Adam and Eve, Abraham, you name it.
All these have very interesting antecedents and comparisons.
You can go to other mythologies that it walks and talks
and looks very much like it.
For example, the Akhada that we look at with Abraham
sacrificing Isaac, holy smokes.
Well, we see a similar thing with a king named Athimos
and his new wife, I know.
I think it's his new wife or that was his first wife.
Either way, the step mom is not a fan of the kids.
Frixus and Helen, Helens.
Helens, Helanus, forgive me if I don't have the names correct.
He goes and Apollo supposedly through the Oracle, Delphi
instructs that he sacrifices his children to Apollo.
He goes to do it and at the last second,
a flying golden fleeced ram saves the children,
Frixus and Heli.
Heli falls into the water and at this point to this day,
they call that region of the water Hell's Pond.
Frixus survives and eventually in a thanksgiving to Apollo
for saving him sacrifices the ram
and hangs the golden fleece on a tree
and the Abraham myth, he goes to sacrifice
an angel appears, there's a ram that's stuck in a thicket
in a bush or a tree and there's no golden fleece.
I get it, there's no identical mythology here
but very similar motifs.
And I ask myself, did the biblical account
get influenced from the ancient Argonaut myth
of the golden fleece and such?
Did the ancient Greeks get influenced
by earlier Phoenician, earlier Mesopotamian mythologies
that helped them craft these stories?
Is there some common ground, common antecedent?
How did they get these influences?
Cause I do think there's something there.
Well, those who tell us to shut our brains off
who are persuading me at this point are telling me,
nope, Abraham's happened, but that Argonaut
golden fleece bullshit, kick the can baby, go down the road.
You ain't real, that didn't happen.
So I go, oh my God, where do I go from here?
I mean, I'm reading about the conquest of Canaan.
I find like, it's a Ticulti niner to the first
in 13th century, you see an Assyrian king doing conquest,
kind of like what the Canaan conquest was with Joshua.
Very, very similar.
The other people, they're demonized in the literature.
The God-asser commands them to go and kill and annihilate them
and conquer their land.
But the biblical text talks about this kind of conquest.
And because the Bible says Yahweh tells the Israelites
to go because of these atrocities and evils
that the Canaanites did, that they have the right
to take their land, and that's totally okay.
Just listen to William Land Craig.
Take the time to listen to that guy.
He knows what he's talking about.
But the other examples that you can find
of historical events like this happening,
and by the way, archaeology doesn't even support
that the narrative happened in the Canaanite situation.
There might be one site that's debatable about the data,
but even then, it's continued Canaanite religion,
so it's not even what we read of
and the biblical text of what the religion should be.
Kind of odd.
So what are we doing with thinking this is historical?
Well, as far as archaeologists go, they can suck one
because guess what?
Those who tell us to turn our brain off,
they're the ones who say, I don't care, this happened.
The Bible says so.
You could do this with tons and tons of stories.
Samson compared to Heracles or Gilgamesh
or any of these kinds.
Stop that.
Samson happened.
No matter what kind of genre.
So back to when I was telling you,
I was gonna get into Luke.
Jesus appears on the road to Emmaus,
similar to how there are stories
about theses appearing on roads, Roman roads to people,
and the eyewitnesses who come back
and report these things.
This is documented.
Justin Martyr talks about this in his apologies.
The apology, first apology.
And I'm sitting here reading this going,
oh my gosh, they don't know it's Jesus
that's walking with them.
What's happened?
Are you the only Jew in all of Israel
that doesn't know that Jesus was crucified?
You know the story, you know the story.
And then eventually they invite him in
and then they break bread and next thing you know.
He knew it was him, it was Jesus.
So they go all the way back that night to go tell everyone.
It was him, he appeared to us.
Very similar delayed recognition,
theoxany that you might find with other myths
in Ovid's Metamorphosis, Ovid's Fasty,
myths that you would find in the Odyssey.
But those are myths and those didn't happen.
This myth happened.
Yeah, just chant it till your brain shuts off.
Chant it till you believe it.
Let's do it together, let's brainwash ourselves together.
That's why I said I've gone too far.
I have gone way too far trying to situate
and recognize what it seems to be so obvious.
But the only reason I would do that is I want a sin.
It isn't that I want to know what the historical facts are,
what the literary reality is.
What the genre of the stuff is,
even though there is massive freedom in one's own mind
and recognizing we're dealing with stories,
stories that are crafted and did not happen as they are written.
They're stories.
But when you get to the Bible, that one happened.
It doesn't matter about all the other genres
that it looks like and talks like and acts like
and who screws all that, who cares?
I mean, inspiring philosophy tells you otherwise.
It doesn't matter if all of this is fiction
and it walks like fiction, talks like fiction,
looks like fiction, acts like fiction.
And if you're going to talk about prior probabilities
because you see examples of fiction endlessly occurring here,
this one, this one happened.
So I just got to start taking in
what inspiring philosophy is telling me
and Cameron Batuzzi with the demons
crawling up the wall stuff.
I got to start thinking these stories about Jesus happened.
Quit trying to categorize this stuff
and look at it in its original context.
Quit trying to make sense of things, Derek, how dare you?
Why would you dare try to do such a thing?
So I'm confessing I've gone too far.
I have gone way too far in recognizing
that all of this stuff is loaded with legend, mythology,
sprinkled with verisimilitude,
some history that it might be there throughout these texts,
but oftentimes way more often than not,
propagandistic narratives written to,
in so many different ways,
to encourage you to believe these things
with the Judeans in mind
as you're usurping the Northern Kingdom
and being the primary place of worship in Jerusalem.
You know, so many things.
We got to cut out all those Yahweh cults.
Ours is the one.
The list can go on and on.
And just because I could find the mythology of El
in Ukeret and Asheron,
the evidence is overwhelming that Israelites worshiped
and practiced these kinds of practices from child,
sacrifice, the human sacrifice,
as we've seen quotes about Phoenicians doing.
And just because I could find that El had a wife
and several kids and elements in the Bible
that hinted polytheistic tendencies and stuff,
doesn't mean those scholars who say those things
are on the right track.
Oh, we got to mention Francesca Stavrakapulu
for a second here.
How dare her try to compare the mythology of the Bible
and change my vocabulary here
to compare the historical reality of Yahweh
and the biblical text of the true one God
that no other gods are true
and there are no other gods besides him
to the ancient Near Eastern stuff
that's in Egyptian mythology, Mesopotamian mythology,
Ukeret, Phoenician, Canaanite, the whole nine,
and this region, Hittite, the list goes on and on.
How dare her try to recognize the sexual elements
of these deities which have been off for millennia,
millennia, millennia about these deities?
What is her problem?
How dare her try to situate Yahweh
and this God El and El Shaddai
and try to contextualize this
in an ancient Near Eastern context?
She really likes to sexualize this stuff, doesn't she?
You know, those other Christians
that are antagonistic to her work
who get so triggered and butthurt
because people actually love finding out
what's behind the curtain,
what we've been not being told
by those who believe Jesus was born of a virgin
and actually rose from the dead, walked on water,
multiplied the fish and the loaves
and the list goes on and on and on and on.
Actually, you know what, actually,
I'm not gonna turn around.
I think those people are full of shit
and yeah, you know what,
now I realize in this conversation
that I think I'm gonna keep my pursuit of truth
and April fools, April fools
because in order to persuade me, as I've said before
that any of these actually happened,
you're not gonna do it with a damn book.
There is no way possible in this ancient text
loaded with mythology and legend
and issues amongst itself, there is no way possible.
You can persuade me that route.
It is going to take, if there really is,
divine intervention.
And if God can reveal himself or Jesus
whom Christians think are God and flesh,
that's a whole other rabbit trail about divinities
and there's a higher ultimate father
and all this stuff and Jesus was a God.
I do think the New Testament shows this
that he is a God, but not the ultimate father God.
And then you have this anachronistic,
Trinitarian stuff that is trying
to make sense of all this material.
Either way, don't wanna go down that path.
The point is, is like all of that
and recognizing what's going on in the New Testament,
I just, you're gonna need that God
who can reveal himself to Thomas,
who doubted to also reveal himself to me.
And I think that any Christian
who's sincere about truth and wanting to know the truth
and says to themselves,
I'm not afraid of where the truth takes me
because the truth will set you free.
They have this philosophy of I want the truth.
That's what I had and that's what led me to where I am.
Thankfully, I kept that.
And that's what I was jokingly making this video about
to show you that I want the truth.
And at the end of the day, if they want the truth
and you read the narratives of the New Testament,
truth as in what is reality,
what actually is the case, what is it?
Then you see a doubting tradition throughout the gospels
and needing that to be overcome.
That doubt needs to be overcome by those
who were the closest to the scene
of supposedly the things that are reported to have happened
according to the literary text that we read.
And if those people there doubted,
how much more should you?
Thousands of years removed doubt that this stuff happened.
No, Christians want you to turn the brain off
and just believe.
And I'm not just saying Christians do that.
Muslims do it for Islam.
Jews do it with Judaism.
Many who are more like strict about it.
The list can go on and on.
That being said, I hope you have a wonderful April Fool's
and I won't be turning my brain off.
I just want you to keep joining me on the journey.
And I hope you enjoyed this off the cuff,
hip fire, just having fun, throwing out where I'm at,
what I'm doing, and I hope you are too.
Love y'all.
