Go in the description, subscribe to the New Testament Review podcast with Ian Mills and
Laura Robinson.
Ian Mills, thanks for inviting me.
So for my audience on MidFish and podcast, I'm interested in getting an initial show
with you, just discussing your background, some of the research you've done, what you've
studied in a sense like what your focus is, where you work, obviously is involved in this,
and just give us some information about yourself so my audience can know who you are and where
you're coming from and the insight you might bring in.
Awesome.
My name is Ian Mills.
I'm a PhD candidate at Duke University in the Religion Department.
The specialization in New Testament and early Christianity.
I'm also a visiting professor at Elon University this semester teaching their early Christian
literature in context course.
I also teach Greek in the Divinity School at Duke.
My undergraduate training was at the University of Minnesota.
I studied classics, first and foremost, Greek and Latin literature, as well as biblical
studies, religious studies, and I was a philosophy major until I got demoted to a minor because
of a funny technicality.
I did a master's in religion at Duke.
I've taught middle school and high school Latin, and I'm currently writing my dissertation
on second century gospels and what that can tell us about the nature of gospel literature.
I've published on the reception of New Testament works in the second century, as well as the
continuing writing of Christian scripture from the first to the second century.
Interesting.
There's so much there that we're going to end up having to get into.
I plan to do many more visits, if you will, to try and get some of this stuff unearthed
out of your mind because we've talked before and I've watched you and I want our audience
to know you have a YouTube channel.
What's the name of your YouTube?
Laura Robinson and I, Laura is my Dr. Shvester here at Duke.
We run a podcast called the New Testament Review Podcast.
We're on our 36th episode now, I think, where we review influential works of New Testament
scholarship.
We contextualize them in the history of the field and discuss their reception in New
Testament scholarship.
We have recently, like you said, launched into starting to make YouTube videos, and these
are, I've recorded a few of my lectures that I've given in my course, and we have started
doing a non-canonical Bible study where once a month Laura and I read some non-canonical
Christian or Jewish text that's relevant for understanding the New Testament.
We contextualize that, discuss it, we read a little bit of scholarship, and do about
an hour long discussion of that.
Our first episode was on the ascension of Isaiah, and we talked about how that is receiving
Christian traditions, reflecting certain Christian traditions that show up in the side of the
New Testament and then inform later Christian ways of thinking about all sorts of things,
about prophecy, about the New Testament, about heaven.
That's very interesting that you guys have done this.
I'm glad the scholarship is being available for free for people.
I mean, there's books and there's always stuff out there, but you know how today people
watch media, they want to hear it, or they want to see it, and so reading is difficult
for some people these days.
I'm just aware of that.
Yeah, like your recent video just now, you know, the Bible is the Bible true, and then
you have to break down what this means, and someone commented in your video, it's like,
seems like someone's getting into your skin about something like there's a pet peeve or
something.
Well, can I tell you where that comes from?
We see people commenting on our YouTube videos where we're discussing, say we're discussing
the social situation underlying the gospel of John, or we're talking about the view
of women reflected in First Corinthians.
We get people commenting on our New Testament channel, the Bible is all fiction, the Bible
is all myth, the Bible is all, none of the Bible is true.
As if, and then on the other side, we get, of course, Christian apologists coming on
and saying, you know, the Bible is truth and this is all historical, as if it's an economy,
as if it's an either or question, and as if historians ask that question, as if the only
way that a source could be interesting for historians or useful is that it's either
true or false.
But that's not how historians work, and that's not even how faith communities work.
I can section off that latter for a second here.
But historians don't come to Homer and just ask, is this true or false?
They look at this as a source for sure, what happened in the purported time it's talking
about.
It does, in fact, tell us information about probably pre-Greek, the Mycenaean wars, the
conflicts that happened in the time it's talking about.
It is not a transcript of the speeches that Menelaos was giving.
At the same time, historians use it to talk about the time in which the elite was being
composed, and it reflects all sorts of stuff about storytelling and things like that.
The same is true in the New Testament.
It is almost meaningless to ask, I mean, I don't even know what it means to ask whether
Paul's letter to Philemon is true.
It does tell us a whole lot about ancient slavery.
It does tell us a lot about ancient epistolography, and that's how historians use sources.
And likewise, of course, there are things in the Gospel of John.
Nobody, I don't think most, I don't think any historian believes the Gospel of John
is a transcript of what Jesus said.
That doesn't mean John doesn't tell us anything about the historical Jesus, and that doesn't
mean John doesn't tell us lots of very interesting things about how the historical Jesus was
remembered and how he was used by the 1st and 2nd Century Church.
I think that's important.
I get a lot of those comments as well.
I don't spend all day, you know, responding, and I see it in the past.
If it's something that I favor, I'll hit a hard on it and move on.
But it's nothing against anyone that I don't heart.
It's just, I don't think I have the time to go through and spell that out personally.
Like, some people think the entire New Testament is completely fictional in Astro-Theology,
for example.
There might be something there, like a hint of astrology or something that might be ingrained
into the narrative.
However, you're going, like, it's either or, and I get what you're saying.
So I really am fascinated so far, even just hearing you spout this off.
You can tell that you're educated, you're inside of academic circles when you discuss
this, which I really am glad that you're coming on to share your views and insight with my
audience as well, because we hear from people, we hear from Dr. Price, we hear from Dr. Richard
Curie, who's come on.
And they are friends in terms of the academic circles that you are involved in.
However, they are very, very kind people that I've dealt with.
I know that Richard has maybe offended some people, but that's a different topic for a
different day.
I really have a very good relationship with these guys.
I also have good relationships with guys who are mainstream, and I'd like to ask you,
if you don't mind, to aim the topic of your background, maybe just briefly, because this
is kind of a hit point on my channel.
It'd be different if I was interviewing you on just a mainstream scholarship channel,
but because we have focused so much on mythology and so much on mythicism, why is it that in
the mainstream circles?
Is that a big question?
Should we?
Why isn't mythicism mainstream?
Yeah.
Why is it not even a thing discussed in scholarship?
Well, it's complicated answers to this.
One thing I want to note sort of preliminarily is that Robert Price's scholarship is an
isn't just fringe because he denies the historical Jesus.
The whole clusters of beliefs, these other things he believes around that in order to
make his case are all also fringe.
His view of Gnosticism, the origins of Gnosticism.
There are lots of amazing scholars working at public universities around the country
who are primarily interested in the development of the groups of religions we call Gnosticism.
These different sects, which were not a unified holistic belief system that get called by their
opponents Gnostics.
I think of Jeffrey Smith at the University of Texas and all sorts of folks.
I don't need to list them off.
I was like a place at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill.
These scholars dedicate their life to working and studying these texts.
Many of them have little to no interest in the historical Jesus.
They're not concerned with that project.
Some of them would even probably dismiss that project as not being one that they can say
much that they think there's much that can be said about.
The views Price and others, including Richard Carrier holds about the origins of Gnosticism,
the development of Gnosticism, where they date that literature, how they break up that
literature in terms of source criticism are also fringe.
The point I'm making is it isn't just that someone denies the historicity of Jesus that
puts them on the fringe.
To deny the history of Jesus, they have adopted fringe positions on all sorts of other issues.
Just to take another example, Price sides with the Dutch radicals on the authenticity
of the Pauline Corpus.
There are lots of people who dedicate their lives to studying Paul and to studying ancient
epistemography and to studying the theology of Paul and Romans or the ecclesiology of
Paul and 1 Corinthians.
There are no other scholars living right now as far as I'm aware that hold any view that's
even remotely similar to Price.
A lot of these scholars have little to no interest in historical Jesus questions.
Some of the Pauline scholars at Duke that I work with think historical Jesus studies
is just something that they have no interest in talking about and don't spend much time.
It's not what they're invested in.
A lot of these people aren't, there are lots of Pauline scholars who aren't practicing
Christians.
E.P.
Sanders, I'm not sure he was in a practicing Christian, but he certainly was not invested
in a theological project.
On this issue too, the mythicist scholars have to adopt some radically fringe positions,
some absolutely idiosyncratic positions.
Why is it that there aren't mythicist scholars is because to be a mythicist scholar you need
to adopt a whole host of absolutely fringe positions that people who dedicate their lives
to those things don't consider serious.
You need to find a way to make the brother in Galatians 1 where it's being used, James
is called the brother of Christ, to distinguish him from the other apostles, to distinguish
him from the leaders of the church.
You need to find a way to make that some sort of formal title that doesn't refer to the
normal use of a Delphos.
It goes on and on and on.
You need to, Robert Price speculates some interpolation in 1 Corinthians 15 for which we have no
textual evidence and which isn't justified by an internal reading of 1 Corinthians, that
is to get rid of the Eucharistic formula situated in the historical life of Jesus.
They often justify this by saying, doing history, writing history is just sort of a distalct
project.
You just adopt the view that makes sense of all the data for you, and of course there's
something more or less right about that.
There's something true to that in that we are doing abductive inference.
We are coming up with theories that explain most of the data while adhering to a certain
number of explanatory virtues like parsimony and things like that.
Doing history doesn't have to be done.
Most people don't do history as one overarching giant theory.
You can ask interesting questions about how are we going to date the ascension of Isaiah,
and you can isolate that and just say, what information do we have that pertains to this
question?
When you do that, you find that a lot of the subsidiary theories that undergird mythicist
interpretations of the New Testament are not the best explanation for the evidence, that
he's adopting all these positions in order to support this big overarching theory that
also of course is fringe.
So they were fair.
I don't want us to just jab the mythicists because a lot of my friends, and even Dr. Price,
he wants to adopt me.
He loves me.
He's like, yeah, the paper's written up and he is a very kind man.
I really do appreciate him.
So that we're fair and we're jabbing at views here is obviously not in a negative way.
You're saying, look, guys, I'm not convinced there's good reason to be doubtful of this
position.
Let's poke a little bit at Dr. Ehrman, the nemesis mythicist, we'll say.
That's a strange position to adopt.
To make Ehrman your nemesis is, I mean, Ehrman is such a mainstream sort of conservative
for the views in the 1980s position who thinks that the historical Jesus isn't the same figure
as he's presented in the Gospels.
I'm happy to discuss Professor Ehrman's work in a second here, but if you want me to be
totally fair, I mean, our podcast made waves, made splashes, first got noticed because we
were criticizing Christian apologists.
I mean, we made an episode where we tore Lee Strobel's case for Christ book apart.
We are not invested in doing apologetics in support of some fundamentalist and errantist
view of scripture.
We're interested in doing the best historical work we can and our object of inquiry happens
to be the New Testament.
But yes, on Professor Ehrman, I mean, Professor Ehrman, I've had the absolute pleasure of
working with, studying under, I should say, I've taken several courses with him, I've
done directed studies with him back when I was in coursework.
He's on my dissertation committee.
I speak with him, you know, fairly regularly as I'm doing my doing my research.
He's read drafts of everything I've published, but I mean, to your point, I mean, I think
Professor Ehrman, the dark secret about Dr. Ehrman is that he's a conservative.
I mean, people, people, not a political conservative, mind you, but people, you know, portray him
as this, especially people on the right, conservative scholarships portray him as this radical
skeptic who has outlying views on everything in the New Testament and is, you know, has
ridiculous, is ridiculously skeptical about the Gospels.
And this isn't true.
Professor Ehrman studied under Bruce Metzger at Princeton Theological Seminary and except
for the views that he's published, you know, major scholarly monographs on as far as I
can tell, he pretty much holds more or less all the same views that were mainstream in
the 1980s, the views he learned from Bruce Metzger.
In a lot of ways, I think Ehrman represents a sort of conservative vein in the field.
His views on, on Paul, how to read justification in Romans, I think line up more with sort
of pre new perspective views.
He of course has incorporated some of E. B. Sanders very valuable insights, but line
up with relatively conservative views on how to repel his views on source criticism.
I mean, he's a two source theorist.
In fact, he's more than that.
He's a four source theorist, which was his even less mainstream among Cuba leavers today.
He thinks there's an M and an L document that Matthew and Luke used.
And that again, I think just reflects a sort of 1980s view of things on textual criticism.
I mean, of course, he's done, he's made major contributions into the use of patristic sources
as patristic quotations for reconstructing the text of the New Testament.
But his views on say the CBGM, which is a one of this new method of doing actual textual
criticism, his views on the reconstructability of autographs, things like a reconstructability
of initial texts, I should say, a lot of his views on relative to what we're calling like
new philology or new material philology are very much conservative views.
They're the views that were mainstream held by people, evangelical scholars like Bruce
Metzger and Michael Holmes in the 1980s.
And I want to say that this isn't meant as just as a criticism.
It is incredibly valuable to have someone who holds mainstream views that are not especially
controversial, who is writing for public audiences.
And he's done an amazing job at that.
And this has irritated a lot of people who are conservative Christians, because the fact
is that the views that pastors are learning at mainstream seminaries all over the country
are not leaving those seminary doors.
There have been scholars who've done studies of this, the views that they get taught in
seminaries and they adopt in seminaries and they write papers on in seminaries, they go
then go preach to their congregation as if they never heard of those things.
And I think this is why Hermann has become so controversial is because he is making public
the views that all of these pastors learned at their seminaries but aren't teaching their
congregations.
And the congregations, of course, I think, understandably so, are shocked to learn that
even most evangelical scholars don't think Paul wrote all 13 letters.
And pastors are learning this in seminary and not telling their congregations this.
And I think this is why there's been such a strong apologetic reaction to Professor Hermann.
So I say let his number increase, even though Hermann and I hold very different views on
a whole host of issues.
