Myth Fish and Podcast, I'm your host Derek Lambert.
Have you ever seen some flying object?
You weren't aware of what it might be?
I know my brother has and several friends of mine,
they think they've saw, encountered,
some even think they've been abducted by aliens.
But I also know some people that have said
Jesus has visited them at night in their dreams
or in their sleep or in their private room in a space
when they're going through a tough time.
I was reminded of Michael Shermer's book,
The Believing Brain, about the man who had 14 words
he needed to get to the president.
No one would let him near and Michael Shermer
finally made a guess and said,
I could probably guess what the words were.
After psychoanalyzing the guy for a bit,
he was going through a marriage divorce type situation
and the aliens had something to say about loving humanity.
So anyway, I have some wonderful skeptics here
joining us on Myth Vision who have a new book
and they've had several in the past.
Jonathan M.S. Pierce and Dr. Aaron Adair, welcome back.
Thank you very much for inviting us to talk.
I am older and bolder than I was last with you
and you are younger and more beautiful,
which is another reason why I don't think God exists.
It's unfair that some people are more beautiful than others
just without any merit.
And it's just unfair that we age and that sucks.
Anyway, that's rant out the way.
I'll write you a check for that.
Aaron, what's up?
Well, apparently everyone's aging here except for you.
So the question is what's wrong with,
where are you getting your youth blood, all right?
Listen, I'll just put it this way,
my father is not a mortal, okay?
There's something going on with mommy
and Zeus or Dionysus or Hercules.
One of these people somehow,
anyway, me and mom have to talk about this later,
but I think there's something in the blood,
something in my genes.
You have a book, let me go ahead and show everybody.
This is a really interesting book.
What, why did you write Aliens in Religion
where two worlds collide assessing the impact
of discovering extraterrestrial intelligence
on religion and theology?
Well, I wrote an article for Only Sky
that was looking at a paper by two Christian philosophers
called McNabb and Macintosh.
And they wrote a paper saying,
basically the title of something like,
Houston, do we have a problem?
And it was looking at six elements
where they thought the discovery of intelligent
alien life could challenge Christianity, belief, religion.
And they wrote that paper and looked at these six areas
and said, we don't think it challenges Christianity
and our belief in our religion.
And I was like, yeah, not too sure.
So I wrote a paper broadly around that.
And then Aaron, or I wrote an article, sorry.
And Aaron read it and was like,
hey, this is a pretty cool subject.
And then we got talking.
And then before, you know, we started writing the book
and we used that and Macintosh and McNabb paper
as a kind of central part
because we concentrate mainly on Christianity
but not exclusively.
We do the science first of all in the first part,
looking at whether alien life is likely to exist out there.
Then we do, then we look at Christianity
and effect it might have on theology
and whatnot, these six areas we were talking about
in a little bit.
Then we look at other religions
and then we make our conclusion.
And it was such a fun project
because it touches on so many areas.
And for me, this goes back quite a bit
because when I was still an undergrad,
I was able to do a summer internship at the SETI Institute
to search for extraterrestrial intelligence
and got to use their radio telescopes
for making measurements in the sky.
And while we were doing those measurements,
data was being pumped from those telescopes,
split off in two directions.
One for us doing the normal science
and then went into a bank of computers
looking for any signs of artificial signals
that could potentially come from another civilization.
So I have had professional experience hunting for aliens.
And funny enough, I was just thinking that actually
when I was at the SETI Institute,
that's when I was also writing my first article
about people trying to explain the star Bethlehem story.
So I've been mixing up religion and aliens
a little bit longer than I ought to have.
So you're a scientist by profession, correct, Dr. Adair?
Yeah, yeah, that's fair to say.
Most of my research is either physics related
or it's in data science work that I do in the private sector.
And you have a YouTube channel here.
It looks like you throw things up from time to time,
squiggly lines that I can probably never understand.
Oh, no, the whole point is that you watch it
and do understand.
The whole point is that, hey,
these are little mini physics lectures.
I haven't produced any of those
since I was teaching at one college.
And the last video I put up from a little bit of probing
or prodding, I should say, from Kip Davis.
Yeah, Kip Davis did the prodding, aliens do the probing.
You gotta keep those straight, okay.
Thank you so much, man.
I always appreciate you.
And then we have Jonathan, MS Pierce in the house.
Jonathan, I'm gonna put you here in the seat real quick
and just highlight.
You got a YouTube channel, a tip-ling philosopher.
Seems like philosophy is your thing, correct?
Yeah, so on, yeah, that's what I actually,
I love talking about anything as you well know.
I mean, you get me going and I won't stop.
But yeah, I've got a channel doing geopolitics.
So talking about the Ukraine war
and I've got a channel doing, you know,
talking about philosophy,
particularly in terms of philosophy of religion.
And yeah, and this great thing about a book like this
is it touches so many subjects.
It touches psychology.
It touches, you know, science, sociology, anthropology,
and obviously religion, philosophy, theology,
biblical exegesis.
So it's a really kind of, I reckon if you read it,
it's a sort of book that would just float your boat
no matter what you kind of think.
It touches a lot of bases.
So guys, you wrote this book, Aliens and Religion.
Let's dive in for a little bit into some of the topics,
your introduction here,
as well as letting our audience know
that we will take super chats along the way
as long as they're relevant.
If they aren't relevant to the subject matter at the time,
I'll try and push it to the end and we'll get to it.
So that way we aren't disrupting the flow
of the conversation
because there's always someone who wants to,
you know, what's your dog eat on Tuesdays?
And we know that that's perfectly relevant
to aliens and religion.
And so what would you want to say
as an introduction for our audience,
to your book and the topic?
Cause I'll just throw this out there.
When I was a Christian, this whole idea did come up.
I remember hearing it and thinking about it
and people would go this,
if there's life on other planets,
I was a young earth creationist, by the way.
So we were the center of the universe
and everything is about us, right?
Creation itself was made for man.
But if there's these green Martians or gray Martians
or any type of non-human form aliens out there,
this would probably make God be dead.
This would disprove God.
And I would try to make sense and say,
no, no, no, God's the God of all the planets
and all life in the universe,
but couldn't really wrap my head around it completely.
Where do you want to start?
I'll go for this first and then Aaron can take over.
Really the main question of this book,
the main question this book seeks to answer is,
does the discovery of intelligent alien life out there,
whether we come across it face to face
or whether we have techno signatures of it,
it's somewhere in the distance,
does that make the existence of kind of Christian Omni-God
if we take the main part thrust at the book,
but God in general,
but mainly let's take Christian Omni-God,
does it make the belief or the existence of that entity
more or less probable?
And our summary is the TLDR of the book is,
it makes the existence of that God less probable,
but we do a lot of work to get to that conclusion.
Yeah, and a good chunk of our book as well
is just trying to think like,
or figure out what possible sociological impacts
there could be.
And one of the seminal books that actually helps
put this together was the work on cognitive dissonance theory,
which was realized by the study literally
of a 1950s UFO cult.
Leon Vessinger and his grad student
is basically infiltrating that group and watching them
fail to make an end of the world prediction
and how they handled that when the aliens didn't come by.
And that has a lot of disease and insight
that even if the aliens come,
they land in front of the UN and basically say,
we're here, we're very powerful, God doesn't exist.
We're gonna blow up your planet unless you follow us.
There will still be machinations within various minds
to adjust to this new information,
but nonetheless, the engine will absolutely change.
It will have to take in this new data.
And perhaps the big question that we can answer
before the aliens get here is,
how well-prepared is the religious mind
of various denominations or faith traditions
or if we discover we're not alone in the universe?
Oh, God.
Yeah, I'll just add to that.
There are two kind of things going on here.
There is the effect and the probability
of that kind of God existing is one thing, right?
And that should affect whether people believe or not,
but then you have cognitive dissonance reduction,
which is like, no matter whether you're faced with,
if you're faced with really good evidence
against your position,
likely it is you're gonna entrench in your position type thing
or you'll have mental heuristics
that will allow you to keep holding that core belief, right?
So then it's like, okay, what will happen?
What should happen and what do we reckon
will happen with religious belief?
And in fact, non-religious belief as well
if we were to discover intelligent alien life.
Just highlighting Leon Festinger,
that's a wonderful study to dive into,
understanding cognitive dissonance.
I'm glad that they infiltrated the cult.
It's interesting, I had Matthew Hartke at my house.
He loves using this as well
in his understanding of Christianity
with cognitive dissonance and thinking about
what if the students of Leon Festinger never did
or they did not do this social study
and actually see what was going on
behind the scenes in this cult.
And he said, there's so many movements in history
that we only get like a single word for
that we know that existed,
like maybe Justin Marder mentions a group called
the Malachans or something, I'm just making something up.
We have no clue about them,
what happened, how they had beliefs.
But I did know that Origen in his commentary on John,
just an example, brings up another Samaritan group
that had a Samaritan messiah.
It's like a second century writing,
Origen's writing late second, early third.
He's saying that this group still around,
Samaritan group who said that their messiah,
their Samaritan messiah never died.
Like he's still alive.
And this guy, scholars, like most scholars who study that
say this is a first century person
that they think was around at the time.
What happened with this group?
We just don't have any documentation.
And so if it weren't for them infiltrating,
we wouldn't know what was going on in the minds
and really have a good case study
to understand how the brain works.
Taking the satellite right now that's going off
to the edge of the universe and finding out
there's massive objects right there at the edge
as far back as we can see,
which makes us think the universe is older than we thought.
What if we find out that there was no start at all?
There was no moment of beginning.
Well, they'll just shift a new way of saying,
well, in the beginning obviously wasn't ex nihilo.
Just giving you kind of a reference pointer.
So there's always a way to make it work.
It's crazy.
I can easily see how a philosophical Christian could say,
well, wouldn't we say God created,
we're not saying in a temporal sense,
but just that God is ontologically first
and his existence pervades all of time and space.
And so that's what we mean by God created the universe,
not at 0700 hours on a certain day of the week.
So I know that's the sort of a philosophical hoppery
that can happen no matter what we find.
Right.
And you also have different types of religious belief
will treat the discovery
of intelligent alien life very differently.
So your evangelical Christian,
who might be a young Earth creationist
has a very constricted way of interpreting reality,
constrained by all these add-ons
that they put onto their belief system,
will struggle a lot more
and will maybe even get to the point of denying
the existence through denying the data somehow,
whereas your more liberal Christian,
who's kind of like,
they're very adaptive to different bits of data,
will arguably react very different to such a discovery.
I agree.
We got a super here.
I hope it's relevant, guys.
Constellation threw some big bucks at me.
Thank you so much for the support.
Bought the book and waiting for it.
I have a request.
Can someone calculate in miles from us
how far it would take to reach an electron-ground-state orbital
and nucleus in a hydrogen atom?
Would like to know that number.
I can't do it.
Well, it's gonna be much, much, much, much less
than a mile if you're talking,
let's see, just make sure I get this right.
See, this is why you write a book with a scientist, right?
Yeah.
Because I don't have to be like...
Yeah.
So I think basically,
you're talking about what would be the Bohr radius
because you're talking about the electron in its ground-state
and, yeah, if we're talking a hydrogen atom,
so that's the simplest thing.
So just have to take the Bohr atom
and convert that from meters or micrometers into miles
and it's gonna be some stupidly small number.
So give me a minute.
I'll give you a calculation.
So this is why, I did make Aaron,
Aaron gets quite excited about stuff like this
and he writes like formulae and he writes in languages,
I'm not too sure.
I mean, he says they're English,
but they've got lots of numbers in.
So what happened is I made him put those parts
at the back of the book.
And so at the back of the book,
we've even got graphs and stuff.
I don't really understand it.
I read the words, but yeah, so he's got that.
They are words, I swear.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, but actually, in all seriousness,
and Aaron can explain this,
we did some, I say we, the Royal we,
Aaron did some real science in this book as well,
which is quite cool.
So I don't know, Aaron, do you wanna explain that?
Yeah, I will just first answer the question.
So the Bohr radius works out to about 3.3 times 10
to the minus 14 miles.
So that is 3.3 divided by a trillion divided by a hundred.
In other words, it's a number too small to be useful.
It's also on the order of like two trillions of an inch,
if that helps.
This is great,
cause I didn't even understand the question.
So.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm just sitting here saying thank you to Constellation Pegasus
for his financial support.
Yeah.
But I'm happy of course to convert from metric
to freedom units.
Hey, look guys, I titled this thing kind of blunt, you know,
if aliens are real, is God dead, right?
Yeah.
I threw that out there kind of like,
what does this do with religion?
What does this do with God?
Tell us what the difficulties are as you're diving into this
about alien life and this whole notion
pertaining to God's religion and such.
Yeah.
So I would first say that like,
we have to devote a fair bit of time to the beginning of it
because it's ultimately a scientific question,
a scientific hypothesis,
because we have not been conclusively visited,
claims aside what you might be hearing recently on the news.
But the question then can be, all right,
is it just speculation
or do we actually have good grounds to think that
there's alien life out there?
How would we even identify it?
So it can actually be a testable scientific hypothesis
rather than just some other freewheeling idea
that these crazy atheists scientists come up with.
Of course, we're hardly the first people
to think about alien life forms.
The idea goes back at least into the Hellenistic period
because we see that Epicurus,
the famous philosopher who articulated first
the problem of evil in the way that we understand it.
He talked about other worlds with life on them.
There's entire, one of the first pieces of science fiction
from the second century AD includes a Star Wars.
There's literally a battle in space between aliens.
It's not our modern Star Wars, but still it's like,
hey, these ideas have been around for a while.
The reason we can think that aliens do exist
is that we can look around at the universe and realize,
you know what, we're not actually all that special.
Our planet is one of several
around one relatively normal star
and that star is one of 400 billion in our galaxy.
Our galaxy is one of hundreds of billions of galaxies
in just the observable universe,
which itself may actually just be these weak limits
of what we can see, the actual universe
could literally be infinite.
And with all that space and us looking fairly regular
in our composition and in our placement
in that grand cosmos, you'd have to say, okay,
this principle of our mediocrity would suggest
we're not alone, that we're not going to be
the special thing just thrown out to the universe,
that we will have neighbors.
The question just is how far away are they
and what can we do with our technology
or near future technology to find them?
And that's the first big chunk of our book to show,
hey, we have reason to think they are out there.
We actually have some ways of trying to estimate that
using some mathematical tools
that were first developed in the 60s
and we've developed a bit since
with some simulation techniques to say,
you know what, more likely than not,
we have neighbors 50-50 if they're in this galaxy with us,
but almost certainly somewhere in the observable universe,
there's a cousin of ours looking out
and wondering if we're here.
Yeah, and what then happens is
it kind of depends on how big you think the universe is,
because if you think the universe is infinite,
I mean, we have ideas about the observable universe,
but then, you know, what's beyond that?
If the universe is infinite
and Aaron can tell you the likelihood of that being the case,
then of course, if you think that there's definitely going
to be at least one instance
of intelligent alien life existing out there,
in an infinite universe,
then there's now infinite examples
of intelligent alien life,
and that then is pretty massive.
So when you mentioned Apex of Creation,
I think earlier, Derek,
so if you have this idea, as many Christians do,
that we're the Apex of Creation,
then how does that work with the idea
that actually there's infinite amounts
of intelligent alien life out there and infinite space
and like, why is there all that stuff out there
if it's all about us?
Do you know what I mean?
Why are there microbes on the planet Zbock over there?
I mean, what's the point of that if it's all about us?
And so this thing goes back to the notion
of it depends what kind of Christianity you have
or what kind of theism you have
as to how it affects your belief system.
Yeah, and there's some history here
because up until about the early 17th century,
the church, both Catholic and Protestant up to that point,
had some pretty clear views about the existence of aliens
and the answer was no.
And you better not think there's actually
intelligent life out there because if you do,
that's a heresy and we know of at least one person
who was burned at the stake for committing that heresy.
What? She had Donna Bruno.
Oh, wasn't he like us?
Was he like 1600, 1700?
1600, yeah, he was burned in Rome in February of 1600,
basically down the street from the Vatican.
There's a monument to his site
where he was burned at the stake for various heresies
but apparently of those about 10 heresies,
the one that seems to be the most prominent
in the Inquisitional Records was the claim
of the plurality of worlds and having people on them.
Which is interesting because actually Christian apologists
tend to deny this.
So they try and kind of massage history
or and say that actually no,
he wasn't burned at the stake for that.
But I think people have been able to look at records
more closely recently to find out exactly as Aaron says
that that is one of the prominent reasons why he was executed.
There's something.
Sorry, which is to just to finish that thought,
which is interesting because someone's then therefore
being executed for a more accurate understanding
of the universe and reality
than the religious people had at the time.
So we, I mean, we spend a lot of time in a book
talking about divine deception.
So if, and Aaron can talk about a really important part,
which is how the Bible gets cosmology wrong,
but the Bible gets cosmology really, really wrong.
And then church fathers run with it
and early church thinkers and philosophers
take that on board and go with it.
And so you've got this thing where,
well, this is your optimal revelation, God.
This then it's deceiving people
because it's giving them a false view of reality.
Now it's not, and Aaron can talk about this,
not like they wouldn't have been able to understand it at the time
because there was contemporaneous understanding
that was more accurate than the kinds in the Bible.
And so it looks rather dodgy here
and it looks like God is purposefully deceiving
the readers of the Bible.
I wouldn't do when someone who believes the Bible
is true in some way, they hold this book as sacred.
They may not be Christian per se as Orthodox,
but they think in ancient alienish terms.
They think the Bible is the book about aliens.
The Bible is about, and they'll even like,
if they're open-minded enough,
and many of them are in some ways,
they'll say, well, not just the Bible has this,
the ancient Sumerians that the gods come down
and slave the humans to mine the earth for gold
for their planet.
You know, the list goes on on their ideas
and they've used like sitchens, interpretations.
Oh yeah.
There's several problems with that.
But what do you do with those people
who think, well, the Bible is about aliens.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's interesting because there have been a number
of Christian writers who actually try to use aliens
to save the Bible.
Because if you look at this book and like say,
it's the 18th century, you're in England
and you got all these crazy deists running around
telling you that the whole universe works
with these natural laws and miracles can't happen.
But you got this book with all these crazy miracles.
I've got this guy who can multiply fish
and walk on water.
You gotta be like, well, I believe this book,
but I also see how the universe actually works.
Oh, they must have been natural events
misunderstood in some sort of way.
So you get some English people, you know,
trying to find ways of re-explaining the stories
in Germany in particular,
the rationalist movement there of how Jesus was
not actually walking in water,
but it was a dark and stormy night.
It was really foggy.
The disciples couldn't tell that they were beached
and Jesus was just walking on the sand,
things like that to explain the stories.
In many ways, I've had some people with theological training
write these books to try to explain the Bible
in terms of all flying saucers.
One priest, back in the 60s,
wrote this book called The Bible and Flying Saucers.
And basically all the supernatural events,
alien spaceship, parting of the Red Seas, aliens,
Jesus sending to heaven, aliens.
Star Bethlehem, oh, come on, aliens.
It's just, you know, aliens all the way down.
And of course, Ezekiel's vision, totally aliens.
So in many ways, it's kind of a rescue operation.
I've got a pamphlet here written by a brother,
Michael Diamond, right?
And it's called UFOs,
demonic activity and elaborate hoaxes
meant to deceive mankind.
So this is kind of the other way around,
which is like seeing UFO data
and explaining that by sort of demons,
rather than seeing aliens in the Bible,
seeing almost theology or the Bible in aliens.
Yeah, yeah, and it really depends on the time
because starting in the 70s,
the stories of abduction started becoming,
or encounters with aliens started becoming
more and more negative with the story of Barney and Betty Hill
with their alleged abduction experience back in the 60s,
then becoming this big median sensation in the 70s.
And when this became like all these things
about being abducted and being probed
and your memories being erased
and you being sexually assaulted
by people from another world,
then they took on this much more demonic presence.
So you actually see the interpretation of aliens
in theological writings of that kind
to switch from, oh, angelic to demonic.
So again, it depends on who you read and when you read them.
But ultimately we can come down to and say,
there's a good reason we can be pretty sure
these stories are not about aliens
is because just as you were saying,
if the aliens were coming down
and instructing us or giving us technology
they did a pretty crummy job
because you look at the books
that are supposed to be attributed
to their granting of knowledge and you're like, wow,
this is about what I'd expect from somebody in the Bronze Age
or this is what I expect from somebody
who has maybe an inkling of the astronomy
that the Greeks had developed,
which itself was very flawed compared to what we know today.
And I think the example is if we just open our Bibles
and we just go to chapter one verse one
and we look at Genesis and if you,
let's see, just go go through our translation.
The whole universe was in a hot dead state.
Oops, sorry, no, that's bear naked ladies song.
In the beginning with that,
when God began to separate the waters,
it's like wait, water separation.
Oh, then you find out, oh, the world is actually flat
with this metallic like dome called the Rakea
to separate the waters above and below
because outer space is just full of water.
The stars are just little lights put in the sky.
Why are they there?
Is it because they're worlds
that we could possibly visit with new technology?
No, they are lights there for signs and for seasons.
It's a giant calendar.
That's what the sky is for.
It's not a place to go and visit or explore.
There are no entities there to live on
because there's no worlds to actually visit.
And the fact that, especially in Genesis,
it always blows my mind.
And he made the stars also that throwaway line
for almost the entirety of the universe.
It's like, you know, all these details
about the different kinds of cattle
or other creeping things on the earth.
But trillions of stars just animate those.
It just shows that clearly they did not realize
what was out there.
And if you thought visitors from those worlds came down,
they would make that clear.
No, we didn't come through a hard tent.
So what apologies do to try and excuse this away?
So the question is why in the Bible did the writers
get biblical cosmology so wrong
and why did kind of God allow that?
This is a divinely inspired holy book.
Then how come it's full of complete bunkum
when it comes to actual claims about reality out there?
And this is very similar to slavery.
And I say this all the time.
There are two things that I think justify us
rejecting the Bible out of hand.
Like literally, I don't need to,
I mean, I've written books of biblical exegesis
or I don't do this, but I do really in my head.
I'm like, I don't need to give the Bible the time of day.
Why?
Because it got slavery so damned wrong, right?
And if Moses doesn't come down from Mount Sinai
and written on the tablets saying,
rule number one is don't keep slaves.
And rule number two is in capital letters,
no, really don't keep slaves.
They're bad, like it's bad to do that.
That never happened.
And so you have slavery being countenance.
And if God, this was his optimal revelation
and he knew in advance with divine foreknowledge
that that book would be used to countenance slavery
for 1800 or the last 2000 years,
then that book sucks, right?
And it sucks big time.
And so morally it's abhorrent and I've rejected on that.
Anyway, so that's the slavery thing.
But what slavery, what apologies do is they say,
well, humans just wouldn't have understood slavery
at the time that it was bad.
And so there need to be this progressive revelation
and blah, blah, blah.
And then of course it's completely nonsense
because those contemporaneous ideas
that were better ideas of slavery
around in the ancient Near East.
But the same goes to the idea of biblical cosmology.
Why did God not put the accurate understanding
of the universe into the Bible?
Well, we just wouldn't have understood it.
It just, we weren't ready for it.
So they need to be this progressive revelation
that took place.
And Aaron can talk to the fact
that actually there was contemporaneous understanding
that was more accurate of how the universe worked at the time.
And just so that like, I agree with you,
it looks more like it's coming from man
rather than the other way around.
But to get into the phenomena of why is the Bible
describing ascending up to heaven?
Why is there descending down from heaven?
Ideas that happen in the stories we find within the Bible.
Why do you think that phenomena is there?
Do you think, I'm feeding you kind of my thoughts right now?
Maybe you can correct me.
The obsession and observation of the celestial sky
and that maybe they thought these were deities
as we see like Job describing the sons of God,
which eventually be considered angels, as we call them.
But that that is the place we want to be.
We want to go there.
So this is why we have these narratives of kind of like
looking up like twinkle, twinkle little star,
how I wonder what you are.
And so we have this imagination that we've created
in our literature, maybe seeing comments coming down.
So there's natural observation of things that projectiles,
whatever coming down to earth
and the observation of the stars
make that imagination of humans going up there
or things coming down here into literature,
into fan fiction, into fiction, into legend,
into myth, into cross-culture.
I imagine there's a number of observations
they could have made to just notice,
hey, that big warm thing in the sky.
Clearly it is responsible for the crops doing well
or doing poorly.
They could have seen the associations
with the length of the days and the coldness
and the growth of their corn or other agricultural products.
So they would have already realized
there's a close connection between us and the heavens.
It doesn't take a bunch of test tubes to realize
that we truly are connected with the cycles of the universe.
And also one can observe just from night to night
the regularity of what is seen
and that the stars you saw last night
will be the stars you see there before.
That maybe certain stars rise in certain seasons
but they dependably come over and over again.
And you could say that my great, great, great grandparents
saw the same rising of the stars
and that sense of celestial immortality
you already see in ancient Egyptian religion
where those who are blessed will be able to live
with Osiris in the sky.
And also usually Osiris himself is associated
either with like the constellation Orion.
Isis is usually associated with the star Sirius,
the brightest star in the nighttime sky.
So there's already almost a sense of astral immortality
which also then eventually leaks itself into the Bible.
You see that most clearly starting in Daniel
about the righteous becoming like the stars in heaven
and then you get to the New Testament
and you're like, yes, and oh yes, we will very much be that.
And Jesus himself is the morning star,
the great source of light.
Philo in his writings, he'll also refer to the stars
and planets as Theor.
He'll actually use the word God for planets.
And this is of course, an alleged monotheist
calling the stars gods and using the,
I can't say the G word, it's the theta word
to refer to these objects.
Hmm.
I just think about that phenomena.
You know what I mean?
That's just why we've done that.
And so I could see how that's not a huge leap to UFOs.
It's really not that big of a leap
to see why someone comes along and goes,
see, I knew UFOs all along and they can just,
they can anachronistically kind of backdate their ufology
into the whole biblical and world religions kind of.
Well, I think was it Carl Sagan in the demon haunted world
which is a great book.
Talking about how basically UFO experiences
and abductions or not necessarily abductions
but the experiences people have of coming across UFOs
or aliens is just a modernized version
of people having demonic or angelic experiences.
And actually it's just an updated version of that
essentially and I would go with that.
Got some super chats here.
I'm gonna try and hit real quick.
Constellation building on our little atom thing.
Okay, help explain emergent properties from that scale.
All right, let me get out my whiteboard.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, in the most fundamental ways,
I'm going to have to be very hand wavy with this
but fundamentally the distances and the arrangements
of the electrons in the atoms pretty much describe
atomic bonds and from that you explain chemistry.
From chemistry and chemical interactions
you can get the very complex molecules
that form the biomolecules that make up life.
And of course from life you get things with brains
and then with enough things with brains
arguing with each other you get politics
and you get the modern world.
That is an extremely fast jump through all those hoops
but it ultimately comes down to the little things
setting up the rules that can then be used
for the next big piece.
And it's just a big giant collection of gears
and you really stare down at it.
Thank you.
Durin Chao says in the NOI, what's that mean?
NOI?
Elijah Muhammad said the wheels and Ezekiel
are the mother plane.
These planes are the UFO.
So I know what the vision is supposed to be
the vision of Ezekiel where he says it says
wheels within wheels with eyes on the wheels
and other Old Testament scholars have looked at this
and said, oh, this is actually the imagery of God's chariot
which rolls around on the rakia.
So again, it's not really a UFO
because it literally is a chair with wheels
driving around the surface of the hard firmament.
Also, I think it even mentions that the chariot
has like this fire for producing smoke in that.
So that would suggest that if this is an alien spacecraft
it's powered by coal and I could tell you
that ain't how you get across the universe.
Not with steam engines, no.
Eventually fossil fuels and then it's this
and then it's that which is very odd.
Michael Apple, thank you for the super chat.
Hopefully our alien religion encounters
less like childhoods end and more like third rock.
For context for everyone, Child's End
is one of the first major novels by Arthur C. Clarke
where the aliens come and there's some interesting stories
there, I won't spoil too much.
Third Rock is a 1990 sitcom with John Lithgow
as the leader of this group of aliens
basically trying to blend in with the rest of humanity
but are always looking a little bit weird.
Thank you so much.
Chris McCarthy says the excellent film Contact
based on Carl Sagan's novel portrays the impact
of the discovery of E.T. on culture and religion.
Have you seen it?
I have seen the film but it was the ending
not very Carl Sagan-y.
I don't know, I've not read the book though
so I can't tell, there's something like the particularly
anyway, controversial at all.
Yeah, I've read the book and I've seen the movie.
I recommend both.
It's been a while since I've read the book
to see how well it stands up
but I would say almost certainly go read,
trying to think how different it was.
I mean, Ellie's encounter with her father at the end
is I think different than the novel
but there's still plenty of agreement
generally between the two.
But when it comes to showing the response,
some people extremely excited that the aliens are here
and it just becomes like this big media circus
and Gary Busey in that movie is also some crazed preacher
who blows up the first machine based on the alien tech
because he's basically his own miniature doomsday cult.
Is Sagan right about or at least the film right about that?
I think so.
I've also memory it serves.
They don't actually say who did the bombing
in that first incident in the book.
I think they leave that vague in the book,
they make it clear.
It's like, no, no, you see the person pressing the button
with the suicide vest going off.
So it's like for whatever reason in the film
they decide to make that clear.
Also the movie was basically required viewing
when I was at the SETI Institute,
like all the other interns basically got together
and just we're all watching it on VHS
on the tiniest TV that was in our room
and we just all gathered there for it.
And while it's fantastic, it makes a huge math blunder.
And we, because we're all science nerds,
every time we hear it, we're just like,
oh God, how did that get to the script editors?
Where it says like, there's like a hundred billion stars
in the Milky Way, if there's just a one a million chance
this and a one a million chance this
and a one a million chance this,
then there'll be millions of life forms.
And it's like, no, if we actually run your numbers,
there's like a one in a billion chance there's anything.
So you're off by like 15 orders of magnitude
or something absurdly wrong.
And it's just like the most wrong
you could possibly be in a film.
Especially with the scientist behind it, right?
Yeah, Sagan was like part of the script editing.
I don't know how that got past him,
except for the fact he was helping work on that script
in his dying days.
So who knows what might have slipped by.
Patrick William, thank you for the 20.
Before we invented aircraft,
all UFOs were boats, chariots, et cetera.
So that was number one.
Number two, sightings are up 1200 times since UN founded.
They want aliens to justify world government.
Number three, aliens only visit crash
in US powerful nations, coincidence, odds equals zero.
One of the things I'd like to say
which is sort of tangentially connected to this
is if aliens did cross the universe to come and visit us,
they would require, and Aaron can talk to this,
they would require the harnessing of technology
that is mind-blowing.
They would require the harnessing of energy
that is mind-blowing.
You can talk about the Kardashev scale
to try and explain this,
but basically it would be phenomenal.
So they would appear like gods to us actually in many ways.
After C. Clark's third law,
is like anything that's sufficiently advanced
in technology appears like magic,
which when you had the conquistadors
going to South America against the Aztecs
and they were firing muskets on the back of horses
with metal armor,
then Aztecs had never seen anything like this.
And someone's flash was going off here
and someone's dying over there.
I was like, whoa, that's magic.
It's just science mate,
and you're not as technologically advanced.
But anyway, I contest that aliens would cross the universe
with all their knowledge,
and you'd think they'd be able to see us from afar
and get a really good grasp of what we were
and how we operated from afar, right?
Rather than having to hover just above us,
abduct some drunk guy and shove a probe up his arse
just to find that, you know,
they've crossed the entire universe for that.
And then they go, oh, it turns out there's some feces
up there, who knew?
And then send them back down and he's like,
oh my goodness, I had the craziest night last night.
It's like, just absolute garbage.
Anyway, sorry.
Thank you, Patrick.
Oh, just to go through the-
No, no, no, there's lots more to say to that.
I wasn't really-
Oh, can I keep it up?
Yeah, keep it up for a moment.
So let me start with number two,
sightings up 1200 times since UN founded.
So I think there could be an interesting confounding factor,
aircraft are now far more common since the UN was founded.
And it's not because the UN has made a bunch of aircraft,
it's just they've now become commonplace.
In fact, one of the earlier studies
by the US government of UFOs,
like part of Project Blue Book and things like that,
they figured that maybe about half of the UFO sightings
that were being reported was the U2 spy plane.
And the U2 is not controlled by the UN.
I could tell you that.
That was designed by the US to spy on the Ruskies
in the old days, though I shouldn't say the old days,
the U2 is still used today actually.
And yeah, the aliens only visiting or crashing US,
more often than not, that's the case though,
you will see stories of aliens coming down
in places in Africa, in Mexico and things like that.
But yeah, they seem to only crash
and then only get reported about like decades later
with somebody saying, oh, I know,
and the government's keeping it secret.
And well, that's actually the most recent round of things
when a person who says he was told by a guy
who was told by a guy that he saw alien stuff.
I like in the book, you talk about the instance
of the policeman chasing a UFO,
but it turned out to be like a star.
Is that correct?
Oh, it was specifically Venus.
He stops a car and asks, hey, did you guys see that thing?
Did you see something falling out of the sky?
Sorry, I missed that.
There's like a cop recently, he was driving,
he saw something, a lot of stuff's over California,
I noticed, and they're like,
even the cop was freaking out,
pulled like next to someone's car and said,
hey, hey, hey real quick, did you guys notice
something falling out of the sky?
Like there's like tons and tons of this stuff right now,
especially with the government footage.
I don't know if you know,
Mick West, the skeptic of, yeah, okay.
Oh yeah, we actually cite him in the book
to discuss one of the alleged alien craft
in the Navy videos that started to be released
what five years ago now that videos came out.
But yeah, one of the incidents we talked about
with a different police officer, this was in the 60s,
and so there was already like this heightened awareness
of alien reports out there.
Just these were a couple of cops in Ohio,
and just like the weeks before there was these stories
coming out of Michigan of UFOs,
but surprisingly the first person
that came up with the idea of swamp gas explaining UFOs
was actually a person who was a believer in UFOs,
but he thought like this particular incident was,
I think this is just swamp gas
is causing some refraction of light
and that was confusing some people.
So this is what's going on in the news at the time,
and police officers see this bright light in the sky,
think it's moving, they hop in their police car
and they are just driving for it at full speed.
They're going over 100 miles per hour.
I think they go all the way into Pennsylvania
trying to chase this thing.
And if you look at the path of what they're following,
you can see what was in front of them.
You put up the star map and you realize,
oh, that bright light they saw was Venus.
Yeah, so yeah, it's an easy mistake to make, right?
But I guess there's a lot to be said
about the context that people are in
when they are seeing these things
and being influenced by prevailing ideas at the time.
So I think part of what your commentator was saying
is kind of spot on, part of it may be a bit conspiratorial,
but yeah.
So I guess I kind of posted the title
as like if aliens are real, God is God dead.
How would you answer that question?
Because many people who read the Bible
think aliens and angels or demons or whatever, right?
There's a lot for God to explain, especially,
how does the story of our relationship
with the almighty work,
if we're not the most special part of creation
and in fact, we're one of trillions
of created intelligent species
and one of the issues we talk about
with the mediocrity principle or the Copernican principle,
we're not going to be special
if there are other intelligences out there.
Well, aren't they also gonna have a relationship with God
and how does that work?
And Jonathan, take that away.
Well, yeah, so the Copernican principle
is really important to an awful lot of stuff
that we discuss in the book.
So the Copernican principle is like imagine a bell curve
and if you don't really know much about the existence
of what exists out there, then you say, okay,
let's say there's potentially trillions
of intelligent alien life forms out there.
Okay, where do we fit in the range of say,
intelligence in the range of morality
in the range of in the image of God
and there are loads of stuff like and suffering and evil.
So all of these things like we think,
oh, there's so much suffering and evil on this world.
But actually there could be an entire galaxy
that's been eradicated in the same way
that we talk about a genocide here.
There could be intelligent alien life form out there.
That is so intelligent, it's vastly superior to us.
So the Copernican principle says on all probability,
we are gonna be somewhere in the middle.
This gets pretty interesting
when you're talking about all of these things.
So for example, evil.
So take this, right, Derek, you live in a world, right?
Where stubbing your toe is the most horrible thing
that can happen, right?
Okay.
If I ask you, well, how do you explain an all loving God
in light of that data?
You would say something like,
oh, it's a bit difficult,
but you'd be able to give some kind of explanation, right?
Now the question for you, Derek,
is would it be more difficult for you
to explain the suffering that takes place
on a world where we have cancer, Ebola, genocide, rape,
war, all these terrible things?
Would it be more difficult for you
to explain how an all loving God could exist in that world?
Would it be more difficult than to explain
how an all loving God could exist
where you can only stub your toe?
Yeah, it would be a lot more difficult.
I mean, keep adding to it and you have more problems.
Exactly.
Okay, so therefore, the amount of suffering
we have in this world makes God less,
that kind of God less probable
than a God in stubbing toe world, right?
Now take the Copernican principle
and the amount of suffering on this world
is going to be really distinctly average
compared to some of the suffering out there, right?
So then when you start understanding
that things can be way, way to orders
of magnitude worse out there,
then actually the probability of an all loving God
existing is at least lessened, right?
So that's just one way of looking at the Copernican principle
and how it can take effect.
Another really important one is in the image of God, right?
So Derek, you can look at your fish
that you've got in your fish bowl
over the other side of your office.
You say, God, is that any, I'm in the image of God.
I'm Derek, look how handsome and amazing I am.
I'm like, this is Godly, I'm divine.
That fish, that's a fish.
It doesn't, that's not an image of God, right?
So and think about that relationship.
Now think about the Copernican principle again
and imagine an alien out there
that is more in the image of God.
We are just averagely in the image of God.
And we look at that fish and say,
that fish is not in the image of God.
There's going to be an alien looking at us
saying they are that much more in the image of God
compared to us as we are compared to a fish.
So there will be aliens that are far closer to divinity
than we are, and yet we think that the apex of creation.
So what does that effect have on Christian belief,
for example?
I mean, that would be like, what is Jesus an avatar
for only the humankind?
I mean, at what point do you,
yeah, there's all sorts of issues.
That's one of the biggest sections in the book.
Aaron, you go for it.
Yeah, yeah, you've stepped in probably
what is the biggest controversy
within the theologians who are discussing this
and they're known as astrothiologians.
So this is not the astrothiology of Chariah as this is
applying theology to the case of
we have extraterrestrials out there.
How do we fit them into the story?
And the thing that they're pretty divided on is, okay,
was Jesus coming into our world dying and rising
a one-time event and we humans are the lucky ones
in the whole universe?
Or does Jesus have to incarnate
into the intelligent life forms for each of those worlds?
And so there could potentially be not one Jesus,
but billions of Jesuses.
In fact, there could be multiple Jesuses
in the universe at the same time
because with all the different possible life forms
that could be out there, there's a pretty darn good chance
that, hey, Jesus have to be literally
in more than one place at the same time.
And so you have not just many Jesuses,
but a bilocating Jesus who's just like going in
and out of both realities.
So well, apparently, you know, teaching,
suffering and rising from the dead across multiple worlds.
And we'll be doing this not just once,
but billions of times for billions of years
as new civilizations emerge throughout the cosmos.
And this is a really big, as Anna has said,
you know, this splits us through theologians.
We sit off to the side, right?
And we look at all the criticism
that multiple Jesus advocates have of a single Jesus advocate.
And we look at all the criticisms
a single Jesus advocate has of the multiple Jesus advocate.
And we just eating our popcorn going, yeah, yeah,
all of you are right because both of you are wrong.
But this is certainly a really contentious issue, I think.
And what you have to do is there's kind of a ladder
of processes you're going through.
So first question is,
does intelligent alien life exist out there?
Okay, the answer is yes, okay.
Is it moral?
And we go through all this in the book and say, right,
okay, it's likely to be moral.
Okay, if it's moral, is it fallen?
Well, if they're not fallen and we are,
that's really unfair on us.
So if God is surely fair, everyone should be fallen.
Okay, so they're intelligent, they're moral, they're fallen.
If they're fallen, do they need atonement?
Well, if we need atonement, then surely they need it.
Again, it goes into that unfairness thing.
Okay, so if they need atonement,
what atonement do they get?
Do they get the same atonement as us?
Well, if ours is the optimal atonement,
surely they should get a chance
of having the optimal atonement or, you know, so on and so forth.
So, okay, what is the optimal atonement?
Is there only one optimal atonement?
Is it an incarnated God in human or alien form?
Are there other forms of atonement that equally as good?
So, you know, there are all these sort of questions
that eventually you get down to.
I think it's more plausible that all alien life form
would be falling in the same way we are.
I mean, if you believe in all that kind of stuff.
And therefore they would all need atonement
and it's more probable that they would all have
the same kind of atonement for kind of parity for fairness.
And so they would all have an incarnated God, you know,
in their whatever form.
And the question is, as Aaron said,
is there's one God rule, you know, one Jesus rule them all?
Or do you need like a million Jesus and billions?
Which is why, like this is making a case
for some form of polytheism better than monotheism,
in my opinion, number one, number two, if you were trying,
you know, if you had to go with atheism at all,
it would be that one probably makes more sense.
And you could still assume there's a supreme one
above all of those that kind of like allows them
to have jurisdiction of other planets
or whatever you'd like to make.
The Mormons are closer in some way.
The other interesting thing that you said,
there's a couple of things I wanted to highlight
that I thought were really cool.
And it reminded me of that philosopher Xenophans.
Xenophans, yeah, Xenophans.
Xenophonies. Xenophonies.
Is that Xenophonies?
If cattle and horses or lions had hands
or were able to draw with their feet
and produce the works which men do,
horses would draw the forms of gods like horses
and cattle like cattle,
and they would make the gods' bodies
the same shape as their own.
Very old philosopher.
I mean, this is 570 BCE to 480 BC, you know,
like way, way back there who said that.
Another interesting thing is looking kind of like,
is it the Capernaum, the, what is it called?
The Capernaum principle.
That is pretty much like looking at ourselves
and then kind of like trying to expand out in our thinking
and look at the rest of the world, the universe.
You can use this kind of an analogy here.
Is that would just say that whatever spectrum
of characters that you're looking at,
we'd see it somewhere in the middle.
We're just kind of average Joes.
So if we're looking at evolution from like,
abiogenesis from chemistry to biology,
we're looking at life and how it's like,
it's cannibalistic and it's in nature, period.
From the get, there's a book called
The Short History of Life on Earth.
Love it.
I gotta interview the scholar at some point.
He goes all the way from like,
how life starts in the oceans.
Ultimately you have like the eating of algae's
and algae is like trying to get some sunlight,
but it's also eating, it ends up evolving
to where you start having certain life forms
coming out of this and then they're eating each other.
And it's like for millions, hundreds of millions of years,
life itself is eating itself to try and compete to stay alive.
And we end up coming out of all of this.
So it's like, I feel like all of these imaginative
theologies and ideas and myths and stories
that we've created, like trying to solve this innate,
totally normal problem that we literally have the day.
Oh, should we eat animals?
No, only eat plants.
Okay, so that's still life form,
but it doesn't harm as much because it's not conscious.
And it's like, we have to sustain in order to stay alive.
We have to kill something.
Humans cannot stay alive without killing something.
So I'm looking at other planets thinking
if life is out there and it's intelligent,
it is gonna have the same problems.
And I kind of chuckle thinking,
what if aliens came here?
We found a way to communicate and they go,
do you guys wonder why we're here at all?
Why there's anything and they don't know the answer.
Why there's anything rather than nothing
are those kind of questions?
It's just, it makes-
There are loads of things we think about in the book
that are sort of connected to what you're saying.
So one thing is that if aliens did come down to Earth
and you think, well, they'd have to be massively
more technologically advanced than us
and they would have had to have probably spent
a lot longer time existing in order to get to that point.
But there is the kind of,
there's a potential reality that they could be atheists, right?
If you look at how our own societies have evolved,
like if we extrapolate the growing non-religiosity
in our societies and our more modern and advanced societies,
then you can imagine that add a couple of thousands,
maybe tens of thousands, maybe 100,000 years onto that.
We might have taken, shed the shackles of religious thoughts
and you can imagine that actually they could come down to us
and they might seem like gods to us,
but actually they're themselves atheistic.
And the Union, there's so many ideas to play around with.
There's lots of game theory that Aaron can talk about
as to whether we really should be looking for aliens
because they could be more powerful than us
and therefore we wanna be being quite quiet
and almost hiding rather than sending out signals going,
hello, we're here.
Well, I'd hope that they would learn
if they were that evolved to maybe, I don't know,
there's no telling what their outlook is.
If they see us and say, look at this bacteria.
What if they know, like they're like, yeah,
we know where this leads, I'd rather get,
like what if we're not on a path that's a good ending?
And I've seen some of those alien movies where people go out,
they find some form of life form,
it's on the spaceship in a protected area,
it gets out, it consumes everyone in the ship,
it makes it to Earth and now we're like, oh my gosh,
you brought it to Earth, human life is probably gonna get
destroyed and eaten by this life form.
You know what I'm talking about, right?
But actually, so that's kind of based on historical
and analogy.
So there's something called the Columbian Exchange, right?
Which is, Chris Columbus founded, went over to New World
and actually there was an exchange of went places,
exchange of technology, exchange of this,
but actually is far more for the benefit of Christopher
Columbus as like the advanced civilization if you like.
But also there's a lot of death involved in passing on germs
and illnesses and whatnot.
And again, very much not in the favor of the indigenous
populations and there's an analogy to kind of what you
were saying there, things escaping off a spacecraft
and killing off the humans.
Actually, we've literally seen that in the way that humans
have migrated around the world in particular ways.
And like, we're the world, right?
Tom Cruise famously, the aliens themselves start dying off
like these humans have given us all these diseases,
we're dying, we gotta get the hell off this rock.
I have a super chat and it's actually an interesting one
because I know a person on Facebook,
let me first get this here, the Inveritas,
thank you for the super chat.
Page 301, Raelle, in the 1970s,
can you speak about them, the realians or whatever?
Yeah, yeah, so Raelle was this Frenchman in the 70s.
I forget what his original name was,
but he claims that he encountered the actual gods
that they were aliens called the Elohim
and he changed his name to Raelle
and founded the Raylian movement.
And yeah, they're a modern UFO cult.
They believe that basically all of the gods
were extraterrestrials of one form or another
and like any good cult, the gods are coming back.
I think right now on their website,
they say that they are preparing an embassy for them
and their arrival no later than 2035.
Yeah, so they claim there that basically, yeah,
as the name suggests, the Elohim,
the Hebrew word for gods, you know, taking that
and then saying, yeah, Jesus an alien,
I think Muhammad an alien, Buddha an alien, et cetera,
all these sources of religious wisdom came from the stars
and that they will make their presence
much more clearly known in just a decade or so.
Yeah, they're, I actually know one of the followers
who, I think I saw the message me earlier,
they're talking about, yeah, so they just wrote me,
they said something about, I think it's time
to interview Raylian rabbi Leon Ariel Melul
and there's his contact, but pretty much just sending me
stuff like they are really part of the movement
and they wrote just now, you just interviewed Dr. Aaron
and dear about aliens and religions, so I repeat,
I think it's time to interview Raylian rabbi Leon Ariel
and Melul and like they really want me to interview them.
I told them I wanted to speak to the main guy
who started the cult and interview them
and last time I tried to go for this discussion,
that guy wasn't going to do it,
but I could have interviewed maybe someone lower than that
and talk to one of them, but I really wanted to talk
to the guy and like get his experience from his mouth
and like go, what's going on?
And yeah, is that guy you're speaking to called Pierre Charles?
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I speak to him, yeah, he spoke to us.
Yeah, I am a little bit reluctant to want to maybe talk
to his rabbi because one of the messages I've also seen
is saying that the Raylians are the real Jews
and I'm just like, you can't say that in a post-Holocaust world
and be seen as anything either serious or not anti-Semitic.
So I'm just like, no, no, you don't get to do that.
We saw what happens, not again, sorry.
It's just weird how so much of the biblical language
gets hijacked for that particular movement.
It's like the Bible seems to be the primary literature
in which they are getting there.
Yeah, and this goes back a long time.
If we go back even before most of the well-known UFO cults,
if you go to something called the Orantia Book,
this was published in the 1950s, but it was probably
partially written over decades, it's
also claimed to basically be channeled information
from extraterrestrials and a big chunk of it
is the real life of Jesus and again, explained ultimately
through channeled information, which is basically
a modern way of saying revelation.
But with four aliens, then the John of Patmos had.
Right.
Durin, Chiles, thank you again.
I don't think alien would visit us due to the fact
we have nothing to offer them, but we shouldn't broadcast
ourselves.
I generally agree with this.
So if you imagine that aliens have got all this advanced
technology and again, I implore Aaron
to mention something about, say, Kardashev scale.
But if they're going to be that far advanced to us,
then really there's not going to be a lot that we've got
that we can offer them, that they can't get from another planet,
I'm sure, without, that was maybe closer.
Or do you know what I mean?
I think the probability of aliens going all across the universe
to then find us and then say, oh, we really wanted coal.
Or do you know, we really wanted lithium.
Really?
You came all this way for that?
You couldn't like concoct some kind of substitute?
I just think it's really unlikely.
Yeah.
So you mentioned the Kardashev scale.
We've used the term twice now,
so we should probably explain what this is.
So this was a way of trying to say,
hey, if we're going to talk about aliens,
we want to talk about them being more powerful,
less powerful.
How do we actually go about and compare that?
What can we do to put them on a scale?
So this Soviet astronomer creates this scale
that's based on what we think might be the universal way
of describing the abilities of a civilization
and its control of energy.
How much energy are you able to harness
and use to your ends?
So at the most minimum, you got muscle power.
And you can lift some things,
but that's nothing compared to a steam engine,
which is nothing compared to a really good diesel engine,
which is obviously nothing compared
to a nuclear fission system,
which will be nothing compared to a fusion,
or compared to building a structure
to collect all the light from the entire sun.
And these are like the levels of imagination
that you could have.
So the scale that Kardashev had,
which then was called the Kardashev scale,
is they, okay, if you can harness and control
all the energy that lands on the surface of your planet,
so basically all the sunlight in your planet,
you're a type one civilization.
If you can harness all the energy of your host star,
you're a type two civilization.
And if you can harness an entire galaxy of stars,
then you're a type three civilization.
Interesting enough, the jump from all those
are similar in orders of magnitude.
And you might say, okay, well, where are we on that scale?
Well, we are approximately a 0.7.
Now that sounds close to one,
but because this is a logarithmic scale,
to actually get us to just type one status,
we would have to produce 1,000 times
as much energy as we do today.
Now, that doesn't mean we need to build
like a thousand new power plants.
We need to build a thousand power plants
for every power plant we currently have.
Which basically means there ain't enough coal to do it.
We're not gonna do this with fossil fuels.
We are gonna have to be way more advanced
in how we make energy to reach even that modest level
of where things could be.
Now, we did some calculations in the book as well
to figure out, okay, suppose that the aliens
really want to cover the distances and get to us
and they wanna do it in less than a geological age
because the problem is going from just the near star system
using traditional rocketry,
takes tens of thousands of years.
So you probably wanna have a rocket or other ship
that can go a significant fraction of the speed of light.
And also if you go really close to the speed of light,
you can get all the weird time dilation effects.
So locally it seems like,
oh, only a few minutes have gone by
and then you land on the planet, it's like,
oh, a thousand years have gone by.
If you're going fast enough, you get all those fun effects.
So we do some math together and figure, okay,
civilization that even could send such relativistic shifts
to us would have to be at least a million times
more powerful than us on that Kardashev scale,
which would tell us, okay,
it's definitely the case
that they are not running their civilization on oil.
They are not going to invade us because in the same way
that people allege we invaded the country of Iraq,
that oil is not gonna be the reason
they can travel the stars.
So, and if it's other raw materials,
it's a whole lot easier to get from asteroids
that are just freely floating around.
You don't have to like deal with all these,
you know, buggers like us.
You can just say, hey,
you've got these rocks floating around in space.
Well, thank you.
You've been like, if they're saying like,
oh, they're here because they want our water.
Well, first off, water is like the second most abundant
molecule in the entire universe.
So not that hard to get.
And two, you don't even have to come all the way to earth.
If you go to the moon and Celadus or Europa,
yeah, let's go to Europa.
That's a great choice.
Go to Europa around Jupiter.
We now know that there is water underneath
its frozen surface.
And Europa, this moon has more water
than all the oceans of earth.
So there you go.
You're thirsty, go to Europa.
Aaron's gonna wet himself with excitement
because someone in the live chat
has just mentioned the dark forest theory,
which we talk about in a book.
Do you wanna just mention that, Aaron?
All right.
So this ultimately comes down to you,
gets the question of, hey, should we keep ourselves quiet?
Should we broadcast ourselves?
Should we even be looking for ET?
So spoiler alert, it's too late.
But the idea in this game theory,
which gets called the dark forest,
it's based on, it became really well known
after the publication of a novel in Chinese,
but then translated into English.
So the original author, Leo Xixin,
first wrote this book called The Three Body Problem,
the sequel to What Was the Dark Forest,
and the third one is Death's End.
This trilogy is, I would say,
really good science fiction reading.
I strongly recommend it in English.
If you can read it in Chinese, go for it,
but I'm not that good at Chinese yet.
Nonetheless, in the second novel there,
the aliens that are discovered in the first novel
are not nice, they're coming to Earth,
they're going to come and destroy us,
but one of the revelations that humanity makes
isn't just that we're not alone in the universe
and we have hostile neighbors,
but the entire cosmos is built fundamentally
on the universe being a scary and dangerous place.
Basically, you realize that every civilization
is out to keep itself alive,
and because of the great distances involved,
you build up these chains of suspicion.
You don't know what the intentions are of the other ones,
and all you can do is basically get suspicious,
and the same thing for them,
and you realize, hey, if they're way more advanced
than us, they can take us out,
and if we're way more advanced than them,
we should take them out so they don't have the chance
to become more advanced than us and take us out.
So everyone basically is in fear of each other
and realizing this will lead to your destruction.
So the only way you can remain safe is to hide.
The metaphor is the universe is a dark forest
filled with hunters, and everyone is trying to keep quiet
because the person who is lighting the fire
and making the noise is the one making themselves
the target from all of the other hunters.
This is such a, like, I wanna say this relates to us
as humans so much, because look at hunter-gatherers,
look at the tribalism that we humans evolved
from hunter-gatherers to being agricultural people,
and it's us versus them kind of groups,
but eventually civilizations occur,
and then we unite and we find ways to try,
and collab with certain laws that allow us
to try and follow certain paths.
If people deviate from them,
they get, there's justice that's supposed to be served,
and it makes you think, like, there's a huge risk
if we do try to make noise and get their attention,
especially if we were looking,
and this is what I meant by the whole Capernaum analogy,
I didn't know if that was related
to what I was describing on,
with our experience and our knowledge of evolution on Earth,
and the fact that life eats life to survive and competes.
There's always competition, it's pretty much you or me,
and one of us has to go for life to keep going.
Sometimes certain species are dependent on others
as their life source, things like that,
but my point is, is if we take what we see on this planet,
and we imagine certain elements from the universe
out there on other planets,
that life started the same way with them,
and their habit is a dog eat dog world,
and it's vicious, it's survival of the fittest,
it is all out, I need to eat some substance,
I need to eat other life forms in order to survive,
what are the odds that this thing,
these other entities, beings, life forms are even friendly?
What are the, what's the probability?
Have you ever done any calculations on the probability
that other life forms on other planets
are actually more friendly than being what you just described
as potentially dangerous and actually ready to harm us?
I have not, but I think there are at least some constraints
on just how nefarious the aliens could be,
because you can imagine if you had a civilization
that was the most anti-social civilization ever,
that everyone is out for each other,
well then you couldn't have any level of cooperation,
because if you're worried that every single person around you
is a potential murderer or thief, or thieving murderer,
then no trust can happen,
and you can't have any sort of trade or exchange of ideas,
it would just be everyone running around with clubs
and trying to beat each other the head
before they get beaten over,
and in that scenario,
you're not gonna probably build spaceships,
you're not gonna even get out of the Stone Age, basically,
because you need to collect all the stones you can
to hit the other guy first.
There's gonna be some minimal amount of social ability,
of social morality that an extraterrestrial civilization
would have to have to reach advancement.
Now, it's unclear if you'd have to be
a completely peaceful civilization
to actually gallivant about the galaxy.
I mean, after all, we're getting close
to sending colonists to Mars,
and we're hardly a peaceful world.
I think the Ukrainians could say something
to that effect very confidently right now.
I know Jonathan has plenty to say.
Yeah, yeah.
Don't give me a start.
Yeah.
It is my hope that our future
is that we do become more and more peaceful.
There has been evidence that shows that kind of trend,
but will it actually trend to kumbaya sort of peace,
or are we going to destroy ourselves?
And this is actually an interesting thing.
Right now, we have no direct evidence
that extraterrestrials exist or have existed,
but there's an interesting consequence
of our work and our projections.
If we actually were to discover another civilization,
and just say, hey, there's somebody else
in the Milky Way galaxy,
for us to have actually been able to detect that
with our current technology, our current methods,
would actually be astonishing
because given my probability
that maybe there's one or two civilizations
in the galaxy right now,
they'd be so far away we couldn't detect them.
So for us to detect them,
they would have to be more numerous than we estimated
for them to be close enough just to be randomly
in our detection range.
And if they're more numerous,
the equation that we use for figuring out
how many they're out there,
the only way you can get that number up
is if their average lifespan
of their civilization is long.
From the Copernican principle,
if they are long lived and we're average,
we could be a long lived civilization.
Discovering ET could actually tell us something grand
and wonderful about our future.
If we are just the sea students of the galaxy,
and we see that the other students out there
have been around for thousands or millions of years,
we have a long and glorious future ahead of us.
So in some ways, that tiny bit of technology
detected among the stars would tell us
our future can also be among the stars.
One question, and maybe both of you can answer,
I don't know if you have a different opinion on this,
but if we, let's just say we could detect
that there were alien life form on a planet
far, far, far away, would you suggest
we avoid trying to make contact,
or would you say, you know what, it's worth the risk,
we're just gonna go, I would wanna make contact?
Well, I would say if we're close enough
for us to detect them, almost certainly vice versa,
they can do the same.
And it's almost impossible for us to even mask
our presence as is, even if we said everyone,
hey, turn off all of your radio antennas.
Not only do we have this bubble of radio waves
still leaving the earth going across the galaxy,
the more important thing is they can also just look
at earth and tell earth is a place with life on it.
With our current technology, we're just on the edge
of maybe detecting the sort of chemistry on exoplanets,
planets around other stars that would show
the signs of life on them,
and even potentially their own industrial revolution.
So if we were, in our near future,
we're gonna be able to have space telescopes
that will be able to read atmospheres and say,
oh, this atmosphere has a lot of extra methane.
That's a pretty good strong sign that there are life forms
because it takes life to produce a stable amount
of methane in an atmosphere.
But if we also say, oh, there's an increase
in carbon dioxide, hey, there's a lot of nitrogen oxide.
Oh, it looks like this is a world
that's going through industrial revolution right now.
And we'd be able to tell that without the aliens
sending a single radio signal,
just the presence of their planet will give them away.
And that's with our near-term earth technology.
Aliens with a thousand years more tech,
they've been seeing us and eyeing us for a long time.
So if we're trying to hide too late, cats out of the bag.
So we might as well say hi.
Right.
And it's quite easy to destroy us as well.
I mean, Aaron, what's the stats about just firing
a very small bit of matter at the earth quite quickly?
Yeah, I mean, you can imagine all sorts
of different science fiction scenarios
for how you could destroy the planet, mega virus,
nanomachines that turn everything into paperclips,
red matter and turning us into a black hole
like in the recent Star Trek movies.
There's an even easier way of doing that.
If you just take any clump of anything
and just fling it at a significant fraction
the speed of light,
it will have the energy, the yield of atomic weapons.
So all you have to do to destroy the all life on earth
is just throw a bunch of crap at us really fast.
And that's all the technology you need.
Just throw stuff at us really hard
and humanity is done.
We literally won't even see it coming
because if it's coming at close to the speed of light,
then literally the light won't get to us
in time for us to even notice, let alone react,
let alone even think about how we could stop it.
It'll literally be like, oh, what's that?
Gone and not even reaction time.
And that's, of course, if the aliens are nefarious,
we literally won't even see it coming.
I want to get to you, Jonathan, here in a second
because I'm bringing God back into the equation or gods.
I know you love getting deep into this and philosophy.
Ricky Johnson, thank you for the $3.
Ricky.
When the aliens come, you will get protected.
Chris McCarthy, I'd love to see a large survey
of religion leaders on.
If ET is discovered, will they also worship your God?
Would you two be interested?
Well, I mean, again, there's so much to talk about here.
If aliens came down, what are the chance
that they would try to proselytise to us?
I mean, we talked about whether there's a high chance,
maybe there's a high probability of them being non-religious.
What are they proselytising?
There is, in fact, there's, what is it?
I'm just trying to remember that I think this,
you can categorise religion in several different ways.
Here it is.
So one aspect of contact with ETI is worth bringing up here.
This is what we write on page 103.
In light of the notion that any such aliens
may have their own religious beliefs,
the religions of Earth will have to be on the defensive.
Ashkenazi, who's a guy that writes a paper about this,
talks about there being three classes of religion in general.
One, proselytising religions,
two, isolationist religions,
and three, agglutinative religions
that do not proselytise, not rejecting other religions
and often assimilating their beliefs into their own.
When the Christian conquistadors
with their class one religion met the class three Aztecs,
Christianity prevailed rather easily, though painfully,
helped along by the large power imbalance.
Imagine the technologically advanced aliens
coming to us with a class one religion,
confronting humans with their own class one religions,
but who might be on the wrong side of the power imbalance.
So there's loads of things to consider here
with what type of religion we have,
what type of religion the alien life form might have,
if we were ever to meet.
And I don't think, I think,
so my idea about intelligent alien life existing
is it certainly exists out there.
There's probably trillions, if not infinite, instances of it,
but we are quarantined by distance.
It's just too difficult to travel.
The distance is required to actually meet face-to-face.
So I think that's just highly unrealistic for us
to meet any aliens.
But it is interesting to think about
these kind of thought experiments.
Yeah.
I don't know that answered the question there, but...
Makes me think of Star Trek.
For example, you show up to a planet
and there's a guy who's their God or a God or something.
If they're highly intelligent on that level,
I mean, would they come to our planet,
see our human imaged deities with attributes
like us from this planet,
just heightened level of the attributes
that humans already have.
And they go, yeah, these people are backwards.
They don't see how...
They're stuck in their little bubbles still.
They haven't figured out that they're not the center
of everything.
And they're just only aware of themselves
and they don't realize it.
That's a...
If they're more intelligent than us,
I imagine they're gonna do that.
I just don't get how they wouldn't.
Now, it does also lead to some interesting thoughts as well.
And I do agree with Jonathan that the chances
that aliens will be visiting us,
especially in the near term, is vanishing small
just because of how stupidly big the universe is.
But even in that scenario,
if imagining that somehow the aliens do cross the gulf
between the stars and land on our cosmic shores
and they land, they come down the gangway
and we see them and we see they're wearing crosses
and they're Jesuits,
that is going to have to affect us as atheists
because we're gonna say, all right,
the chances of two remote worlds coming
to the same very particular theologies
is so remotely small that that almost requires
divine intervention to explain that.
That's an extreme scenario,
but I could also just imagine the aliens come
and they are religious,
but they're also not only more advanced to us
in terms of technology,
but they've also been doing philosophy and theology
for thousands of years longer than us.
So while we're stuck with Thomas Aquinas
and William and Craig,
they have their own alien William and Craig
who's been working on the cosmological argument
for 10,000 years.
And you can just imagine,
there would be so much progress then
that if the aliens came and they say,
oh yeah, we're all totally religious.
We have these great theological arguments.
I'd have to say, okay,
you clearly know how to travel the stars
and so I'm gonna believe you about star drive engineering.
If you're also more advanced than us
in terms of philosophy,
that's I'm gonna be paying attention.
That is worth listening in the same sort of way.
If you find out, hey, all the experts agree on this thing,
unless you can prove otherwise,
you should probably go with that consensus
and all the more so if the consensus is superhuman.
There's so many like what ifs
kind of conversations that can come up from this.
Like what if they came here,
they fully wrap their heads around evolution
and they actually come to bring a heightened understanding
of how this applies out in the universe,
not just on this planet
and can describe how certain other planets
would have different kind of life forms
based on certain chemical and substance reactions and stuff.
And like we're like being blown away
and they're like, but this is our religion.
Our religion, like imagine they came here
and they found naturalist atheists skeptics like us
and they said, you guys are the closest
to the truth about gods or God.
And you're like, what do you mean?
Like we think there isn't a God.
No, no, no, like all of the natural properties
that you see evolve and that are sustainable
that cause things to be evolution, chemistry,
the whole nine that you're doing from your science,
we've now theologized that and made that
a philosophical kind of worldview.
And it is our religion.
So it's a science religion
and it's the most heightened sense of intelligence
in the universe.
But they still make it some kind of religion
rather than it necessarily being a deity.
It's something else.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah, they'd be so.
I guess if we had to give that species a name,
they'd be the Spinozians.
Right?
Technically, they'd come and be like,
these are the smart guys.
Ignore these ones who die on crosses and stuff.
Okay, just run from people who sacrifice their children.
Yeah.
And of course it reminds me of the cartoon
of aliens coming and telling us like,
oh yeah, Jesus, he visited us too.
We baked him a cake.
What did you guys do?
Oh my gosh.
Well, we killed him.
That's what we did.
Nice.
Anything else that you want to touch on, Jonathan?
Yeah, well, yes.
You've got a Bible full of topics.
I mean, goodness, there's so much.
I guess one of the first things to say,
one of the first things he says after one and a half hours,
one of the first things to say about approaching this
is we look at abductive arguments.
So just to remind people,
let people know what abductive arguments are.
They are inferences to the best explanation,
which is to say that deductive argument
is all men are mortal.
Socrates is a man.
Therefore, Socrates is immortal.
You agree with the premises,
then the conclusion follows,
it's a valid syllogism and job done.
Inductive argument,
all the swans I've ever seen are white.
Therefore, all swans are white type thing.
You're like, yeah, there's good probability that's the case,
or the next one I'm going to see is white or whatever.
You can use probability,
but it's not always going to be the case, right?
And then abductive arguments are where you take
some competing hypotheses.
So say Christian, Omnigod theism
and naturalistic atheism, right?
And you say, let's look at all the data in the world.
This is what we do in kind of a theology,
but actually let's look at all the data in the universe,
including the existence of intelligent in your life.
Okay, does that better support naturalistic atheism
or Christian, Omnigod theism?
And likewise, you can kind of flip that
and say, what are the predictive powers of these?
So what would the universe look like
if we were existing in Christian,
Omnigod theism, under Christian, Omnigod theism
and what would we predict the universe to be like?
And would we expect aliens
given the Bible, given this and that?
I mean, I don't know if I've done this with you before, Derek,
but there's the thought experiment I like,
which is, Derek, come into my house, mate.
You know, I love rabbits.
You know, like, yeah, I know John, he loves rabbits.
He's like the world's biggest rabbit lover.
So yeah, I've got three rabbits.
I mean, I've just built a rabbit hutch for them.
It's absolutely lush.
You're going to love this.
It's perfect for these three rabbits.
And you're imagining, so you're predicting that.
He loves rabbits.
What's this rabbit hutch?
What's a run going to look like?
It's going to be this sweet thing in his garden.
I bring you out, I bring you through my house.
So I open the back door and say, look at this.
And my rabbit run goes on further than the eye can see.
And the hutch goes up to the moon, past the moon.
And you're like, hang on, dude,
you've only got three rabbits.
Well, why have you designed and created all this?
And you say, yeah, yeah, it's even better than that.
You know how much I love rabbits?
And you're like, yeah, yeah, I get that.
Yeah, no, I really love rabbits.
Over there, there's just,
if the rabbits get too close to that area,
it spurts out hot boiling oil,
and it can kill them instantly.
And if they go over there, just over there,
this is really how you like this,
they go over there and they eat those mushrooms.
They'll just die instantly.
And if they go over there, right,
then there's a black hole vortex that will suck them in.
And you're like, hang on, mate,
why do they need all this space going up past the moon?
And there are only three rabbits.
And why is this place look more like it's designed
for them to die rather than to live?
I say, yeah, welcome to the universe, man, I'm God.
You know, so the analogy there,
I think is quite a useful analogy
to just try and understand the pure scale of the earth
and look at the abductive arguments here
and say, is this what we would expect?
Is this universe what we'd expect
on Christian Omnigod Atheism?
And you can flip that and say,
does this data better support Christian Omnigod Atheism
or naturalistic atheism?
And we go through looking at loads of data points saying,
yeah, that's better supportive of naturalistic atheism.
Yeah, that's better supportive of naturalistic atheism.
Now this, I gotta ask you, Aaron,
because I, not Aaron, sorry, Jonathan,
because I have, and you can tune in too,
if you want to add anything to this, Aaron,
but this, we always talk about Omnigod Atheism
versus atheism.
And I know for a fact that several theists
who may watch me, not the ones that feel offended
in the chat, they're probably Omnigod,
but the ones who aren't offended, who are listening
and actually tuned in will go, yeah,
but it doesn't destroy the notion of A God or gods,
depending on the kind of version of theism
that's showing up in the chat.
I probably have Hindus who watch me.
I probably have, you name it, that tune in the myth vision.
But like, you always hit the low hanging fruit here,
Jonathan, and that's the Omni.
It's easy to hit the Omni,
but these gods don't have to be all.
It's not, well, it's not so much as easy.
It's the most prevalent.
I mean, we did a series on this book, right?
And that's the God I take aim at in this book, right?
And that's on purpose,
because actually that's the God that most people believe in.
If you ask most believers, unless they're like really
nuanced or the most general Muslims and Christians will say,
well, do you think God is all powerful?
Well, yeah.
Do you think God knows everything?
Well, yeah.
Do you think God is loved?
Well, yeah.
Okay, as your Omni God.
So, fair enough, you can have another version of God,
but I just think that's less,
I think it's less likely that people
will have that understanding of God, but it's possible.
And the problem is, if you attack one version of God,
then someone just says, well, that's not my version of God,
so it doesn't apply to me.
And it's just like moving a pea around in a shell game.
The con man says, oh, you thought my God was there,
well, now it's over there, and so on and so forth.
So, it's not the low hanging fruit.
I think it's the most plausible version of God,
but it also makes its own problems.
Because those characteristics don't synergistically,
synergistically work very well together.
And it's actually what most theologians over time
have kind of built towards.
That's true.
I mean, because I think philosophically and theologically,
they find a way to try and make it fit our understanding,
the best we know now, and allow that God
to kind of fit the new box.
I almost wanna say the unfalsifiable new box,
because pushing him outside space and time,
making him this, making them that.
And that's what I think a lot of Muslims
who watch my show love to tackle the problem
of the Trinity against Christians,
but they have this, they really do have
this philosophical deity that they've come up with.
And they think, well, this one's the one,
and you can't find any flaws with this God,
and you can't find any problems, and it's perfect.
And to me personally, if there was something for me,
in my mind, if there is some form of a deity,
it is far from an omni anything, in my opinion.
That's what happens when you invite into the equation
a kind of personhood, okay?
So like take Francesca Stavrocco-Lopoulos book there,
God and Anatomy.
What you've had over time is this abstraction of God
out of like a biblical version of God,
or a Quranic version of God.
If you're adhering to the kind of Hebrew Bible
understanding of the foundation
to the monotheistic religions,
then you've got a corporeal entity that walks around,
doesn't quite know everything,
doesn't know where Adam and Eve is,
has parts of the body.
And then over time, people have worked out
that that doesn't really kind of,
doesn't cut the mustard as far as theology is concerned.
And so you've, people have abstracted God
for like 2,000 years,
and you get to this really problematic position now
where those same Christians and Muslims say,
yeah, this is a God I believe in now,
like you're saying, Derek, this is this abstract entity.
However, I also believe in the Bible,
or in the Hebrew Bible, the foundation of Quran or whatever.
And oh, this is a problem,
because actually this thing is really different
from this thing.
And they're actually two completely different entities.
And I would argue that they, those two are incoherent,
but they still have to hang on to this
because this is actually the kind of holy book
foundation of their beliefs.
Right, right.
And that's why I just, it might even be,
polytheism makes better sense in my head
than monotheism at this point.
If I were to try and get my head wrapped around it,
or at least a form of hinotheism if you want hierarchies,
but I would only put hierarchies there
because I see us, human civilization
and the natural world kind of work in hierarchies as well.
So like, that's the only reason I would do that.
But...
I think the most plausible version of God
would be some kind of idealism
where you've got an absolute spirit,
which is everything and it underpins everything.
And you live in a kind of everything's mental spirit.
And our understanding of matter
is actually just the representation
of what our minds understand,
or it's just a representation,
but it's not the reality.
And so there's a big resurgence
in this kind of understanding of reality, ontology,
in philosophy at the moment,
people like Bernardo Castro and others,
idealists who have really good arguments actually
and are trying to use physics and maths as well
to defend that.
But I would say looking for God in that kind of way,
which is a real kind of, not really a God as a person,
but God as like the basis of everything,
some kind of absolute spirit of which we are a part,
is possibly the most plausible version of God
if you want to go there.
I actually had an interesting point
on about the universe itself.
And he said, well, there's chaos.
There's a lot of chaos and not structure.
And he says, in his opinion, that mind,
because he calls it a mind, is,
it doesn't know or it's confused.
It doesn't know what to do.
That's why you see the problems we see
in the universe that we live in.
That was his answer.
And I was like, well, that doesn't sound
like an Omni-God idea at all, right?
So it's just an interesting thing to kind of hypothesize,
but this is why I always go back to,
and it's a necessary thing we humans do,
but like philosophy, doing philosophy like this,
it makes me think mental masturbation.
It's like people who watch TV
to like enjoy the entertainment of the TV.
People could just sit there and think on philosophy
and talk like this stuff.
It's just, you go off into a place in your mind for a while
and think about these things.
And it's so abstract.
There's nothing concrete anchoring a lot of this stuff.
Not all-
And then you gotta go and put your washing on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, and then you're back into reality like,
whoo, I went on host past Mars in my thinking just now,
like, and then you're back.
And it's all just out there in the wind in your mind.
A lot of it is.
As a science fiction nerd,
I can say that a similar thing will happen
like before the Han Solo film for Star Wars.
There were all these attempts by Star Wars nerds
to explain inconsistencies in the story,
in particular when Han Solo says
that he did the Kessleron in under 12 parsecs.
But everyone was like, but wait,
a parsec isn't a unit of time, it's a unit of distance.
So it's like, well, that's completely, you know,
wrong, confused.
And so they came up.
Well, what's going on here is that actually the Kessleron
is a series of black holes.
And to do it in 12 parsecs means you have to get
super stupidly close to the black holes
to make this trip in such a short distance.
And these were the attempts to try to get around this.
And you're putting all this energy into ultimately fiction
that then gets turned into more movies of-
That is brilliant.
Quality.
That is theology.
What they're doing is theology.
That's brilliant.
Yeah, I mean, actually Star Wars has this issue
of canon nowadays now that Disney has bought it.
And now like all the novels are now called legends,
rather than like history.
They're trying to differentiate things like that.
Yeah, so that's where a lot of that energy will go.
But it is worth noting that in our book,
we don't just talk about the Omni God
because we do talk about what are the possible intersections
with extraterrestrials and modern Judaism, Islam,
Hinduism and Buddhism, as well as the UFO cults.
We try to look and see, well,
where are the other texts or beliefs intersect with that?
So for example, reading some of the stuff
from Hindu folks that are saying aliens are totally okay.
And in fact, when it comes to reincarnation,
it is possible that you'll be reincarnated
into an alien body or vice versa.
So basically, if aliens exist,
the possibilities for reincarnation are just grander.
And so I look at that and like, well, it's at least consistent.
It's not like the issues that we see
with the multi-incarnating Jesus problem
that astrophilogists deal with.
It's like, okay, there's now more animals of sorts
that you could be inside of.
And also was interesting to see that in the Islamic world,
that in the modern Islamic world,
there's all these attempts to actually try to combine
aliens and previous beliefs.
So for example, we mentioned like how UFOs are called demonic
in some modern Christian groups.
If you go over to Iran,
there's a lot of belief in ancient aliens
and that the UFOs are being driven by Jinn.
Right.
I was just about to ask you
because it's so culturally and religiously relevant often
on how they perceive things.
But like, imagine they actually come here, some aliens.
And everybody's like, hey, the realian cult
and they call up all the cult leaders and they come in
and this alien life form is drastically different.
Because I don't know who the hell you are.
Like, we're already assuming there's life,
but these aliens come here and are like,
no, we were not in contact with any of you
and we have nothing in common with any of you.
But all these cult leaders from different sects
of their version are acting like they have the connection
to this extraterrestrial extra life out there
that comes to visit.
I just think, I think I can imagine that happening.
Yeah.
I mean, we can already see the stories that people
have told that have formed UFO cults or other UFO beliefs
and you have seen how they change through time.
So like, if you go back to the 50s
with some of the first UFO cults,
like the Atheria Society that was founded by George King
says he basically had a nice friendly chat with these aliens
and he described them basically
as these white Norwegian men and women.
That was their appearance.
So the aliens basically in the most perfect form
were Scandinavian.
And only like the modern view of the alien
of this kind of like bulbous head or big wraparound eyes,
that really only started becoming part
of like the cultural zeitgeist.
Again, when the story of Barney and Betty Hill
started becoming well-known in UFO culture,
which only again took off in the 70s,
especially with a more, I don't wanna say novelistic account,
but basically a reading, a book form of their sessions
with their psychologists
when they were going into hypnotic trance states
to try to get back their old memories.
That's apparently how they were trying
to learn this sort of stuff.
And then that was put into a book,
that was turned into a movie
and that's how things exploded.
And where did they get their visions of aliens?
The funny thing is like basically in the weeks
before their hypnotism sessions,
there were episodes of this show
called The Outer Limits that was on TV.
And like literally like the week before,
it had some of the very few examples
of these bulbous head, big eye creatures.
And then they go into these sessions
and then they describe somewhat similar aliens.
And you'd be like,
I think we can follow the traces
of where these ideas are coming from.
And it's complete cultural contamination.
Nothing like a bit of priming, yeah.
I have to agree with Deb Forill here.
Don't knock hot Nordic aliens, okay?
Constellation Pegasus says,
what are Aaron's and Jonathan's favorite chapter
in the book and-
I can answer what Aaron's favorite is,
is the appendices in the back.
So this is a bar book like all people should have
at least more than one appendix.
The link is in the description.
Recommended book is down in the description.
So I hope you'll go check it out.
The book is right now, what, 9.99 before credits
on Amazon, 7.74?
Yeah, paperback is obviously more-
Paperback's 22.99, still.
Yeah, just to be safe, you should get both.
Yeah, definitely.
Just to make sure when the aliens come,
this is the biblical handbook.
What's really nice about this is
it's had some wonderful endorsements.
So Richard Carrier said,
it's the definitive book on the subject.
So someone who knows his onions says,
this is the definitive book on the subject.
We also need more people to review.
It's only got one review.
And that's not even a written review.
Also, there's the NASA historian
who has written on astrobiology.
He says, also, absolute ringing endorsement.
So if you like the top guy in the world,
that we wanted to like the book.
Yeah, he's written a whole bunch of books
about the extraterrestrial debate.
It's like long history.
He was the chief historian at NASA.
And he actually coined the term astrothiology
for this subject matter.
And yeah, he was one of our endorsers.
Yeah, that was a good fish to catch.
What is your favorite chapter?
Mine would probably be challenging Christian doctrines.
So the six areas of Christian,
potential Christian challenge
that Macintosh and McNabb, the two Christian philosophers,
looked at were challenging theism in general,
challenging Christian scriptures,
challenging Christian doctrines,
challenging Christian tradition,
exacerbating the problem of evil
and challenging the Christian narrative.
That makes the core part of the book
where we are taking God,
particularly the Christian God to town.
But I would say challenging Christian doctrines for me
would be the most meaty.
Okay, meatiest.
And I probably go back and forth between chapter one
of all the discussion of if we're alone or not
and how to deal with what's called the Fermi paradox
to explain if we're saying there's all this life out there,
how come we haven't met them?
We haven't detected them yet.
That's one of the issues within chapter one.
But I think what might be more relevant
to what's been going on in recent news
is probably chapter three,
all the alleged evidences that the aliens are already here,
they're buzzing our skies, they built our pyramids,
what have you, we discuss the more
and less scientific evidences put forward to say
that we already do have strong evidence of aliens
and why they're actually quite wanting.
Okay, I got to ask you guys
why we got the book pulled up here for a second.
Just to get your thoughts,
you're both skeptics, you're both critical thinkers.
Does this, for anyone who's a critical thinker like me
who really wants to go in and kind of use it as a tool
or a handbook to be critical of the UFO claims
as well as how this could impact religion on earth,
do you guys take the whole alien thing to task as well?
Like the claims that we've had so far,
you're not denying as I think all three of us think
there's life out there of some sort,
some form out in the universe, period.
Whether it's in our galaxy or not,
I mean, I would imagine it would be,
but just saying like we think there's life out there.
The question I'm saying,
do you guys take to task UFO claims and stuff?
Well, like ancient aliens and stuff like that.
Oh, and modern.
What are?
And we'd also look at the modern claims
that we had, we talk about the UFO and the UAP phenomenon,
obviously not the most recent claims
because they've only been in the news for like two weeks,
though people have been digging and realizing
actually this person is,
he's basically repeating other things.
And so ultimately he's laundering somebody else's dirty,
used ideas about these same things,
but now they're just coming out of a different mouth
to make another news cycle,
but it's really just the same things.
Like a person said they saw a thing
and what was that thing they saw?
Oh, it was from the same people who say
that they've been encountering interdimensional ghosts
out at this ranch in Utah.
I forget we're skin walker ranches.
A lot of it seems to be coming to the same people.
There's this long history in the media itself
to basically run with these fantastical stories
because it sells newspapers, it gets clicks.
Got it.
Constellation.
And just ancient aliens is just BS.
Yeah.
Yeah.
If anything, we give actually how you would detect
if aliens came in our past,
what sorts of things would they leave behind
in the most obvious sort of thing is this.
If you're a civilization and you're developing on your own,
you see basically this gradual change
in your architecture, in your beliefs,
in your science, in your mathematics.
You could basically watch the progression over time.
The way that you could tell another culture has come in
and done some sort of contamination
is there's some sudden change.
So for example, if you are an archeologist
and you're working in North America,
you're digging through and you're in deep layers
and you're seeing more traditional Native American objects,
arrowheads, things like that.
And all of a sudden, you see this fine porcelain.
You're like, okay, this is a sign of here's
where you had European contact
because of the very different items
and technology coming in.
The thing is, do we look around
and we see all of a sudden,
hey, here's this new vocabulary
and are this new technology,
things popping in just out of nowhere versus,
oh, we can see either gradual change
or we can see, oh, this came from these people over here
on the other side of the lake or whatever.
That's the sort of thing we see in every case
and the people on ancient aliens who claim otherwise,
at best, don't know what they're talking about,
at worst, are just lying for money.
Thank you, constellation Pegasus.
MNag with the super sticker.
Thank you so much for that love and support.
MNag, good to see you here.
And thank you for the super thanks the other day.
I just saw it or yesterday.
Really appreciate that.
Is there anything else you would like to say about the book
before we wrap up this episode?
Because I think there's gonna be,
we have much to talk about, just put it that way.
There's much more we could do on a follow-up episode.
Yeah, I mean, goodness, we haven't even touched really
the theological wrangles too much.
I like to mention a couple of little sort of thought
experiments like, or not so much thought experiments,
arguments.
One thing that annoys me about the Christian approach
to say, or theistic approach to say
the fine tuning argument is this.
And I often talk about this in a book,
which is that we are just sort of holding on
the very ends of our fingertips to life on this planet, right?
We're very close to dying, you know, you've got black holes,
you've got diseases, you've got all this kind of stuff, right?
But you've also got a constant,
so if you change them only just a little bit,
life wouldn't exist in the universe.
Now, theists look at all this data and they say,
this is evidence that God exists.
And they call this a fine tuning argument.
So it's just, everything is so perfectly balanced
that God must exist because this allows life to exist.
However, if you can imagine a situation
where life was teeming in the unit,
the universe was teeming with life.
Everywhere you look, there was life everywhere.
There was life all over the moon, it was easy.
And there weren't black holes,
there weren't, you know, it was easy to continue living.
And indeed, if the constants changed a whole bunch,
life would still exist, right?
Then the theists would go, look at that.
This universe was designed for life.
You could change all the constants and there'd still be life.
You got, hang on.
Like you've argued that this is evidence for God.
If you change a constant and we die,
so and we're just hanging on
and it's only just able, we're only just able to live,
that's evidence for God.
And you imagine a universe where life is so damn easy
that you could do anything and life would still exist.
And that's evidence for God.
You're having your cake and eating it.
This is, heads you win, tails I lose.
Do you see what I mean?
Yeah, I definitely get it, yeah.
I don't know that.
Yeah, cause like imagine it was even harder for life to be
than what it is now.
Then it's just, they'll just take that too and be like,
I mean, what are the odds that this little speck of land
on the planet earth is the only place
that's inhabitable for life.
All the other places across the waters on our planet,
life is not habitable, but the spot we're at,
that's how good our God is.
And then if you minimize that even more
to the neighborhood within the city that we live in,
I mean like it does not matter.
God did it and he's got our back
and it wouldn't matter how, you know, how you chop it up.
I would imagine they would find a way to make it.
It's like the Texas shooter fallacies net
where, you know, but that's what you're talking about.
But yes, sorry, Karen.
Yeah.
No, I enjoy it.
Last minute people were throwing super chats at us here.
So William Arons, thank you for being here
always in the chat, William.
Sci-Fi has two main storylines.
One where humans struggle with starship technology.
The other, the search for the meaning of life
outside of this world.
I think that does capture a lot of science fiction,
at least some of the most thought provoking science fiction
will definitely try to say,
hey, what is our place in this grand cosmos
now that we have the scientific worldview
and also the idea that we can use our technology
to either create or solve our problems.
And what does that say about where we're gonna be going
in the big picture of things.
Some films have done a fantastic job imagining
what that could mean for us.
Even where it intersects nicely with religion,
like perhaps the most important theological film
in science fiction, I'm gonna point to 1951's
The Day the Earth Stood Still.
And you actually know a phrase from that film, Derek,
even though you may not have seen the film
because it gets reused in Army of Darkness,
Klaatu Barata Necto.
Yeah, yeah.
That comes from this film.
Oh, hey.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
When Bruce Campo was having to learn that line
from Sam Raimi, Raimi clearly was watching other films.
Yeah, but that film is basically about visitor from space,
coming with a message of peace, is killed for his beliefs,
brought back to life and told us about an apocalyptic end
if we don't mend our ways
and become a more peaceful civilization.
In that movie, Klaatu is as close to Jesus
as the 1950s was going to allow you to have
in McCarthyism era US history.
So I wouldn't say the same thing about the remake
with Keanu Reeves from about a decade ago.
I can't speak as positively,
but it's showing like, hey,
once we have the idea that we are part of a bigger picture,
how do we imagine we're going to fit into that?
And that is both beautiful and terrifying.
Humblin'.
Derek, I actually have to shoot right now
to go and pick up my kids
who have been on a school trip to France, right?
And it's 11 o'clock UK time
and I've got to go and pick them up at their school,
so they just get out for a couple of days.
We're wrapping up anyways here.
I love you, man.
Yeah, I love you guys.
Well, Aaron, not so much, but you, Derek,
are two legends.
But just to say there is, no, I love you, Aaron, man.
There are loads of really meaty,
there's loads of really meaty arguments to do with philosophy
and theology that we barely touched on.
So there is certainly a lot more.
There's a lot in the book, it's jam-packed.
But thank you so much, guys.
Sorry to shoot a little bit early.
You're good, you're good.
We'll wrap things up here when you go.
All right, brother.
Take care, yo.
I'm safe.
All right, now he's gone.
Okay, I think you're going to do that, man.
I knew you were going to do that.
I'm that predictable.
I apologize.
You are, you're so predictable.
For those who don't know,
I've actually gone and met with Aaron.
And we went to the museum, Boston Museum.
That was fun.
Lots of ancient stuff, filmed a lot of that,
never used any of that film that we did in the museum.
I don't know why, I just never did.
You'll find an excuse.
There's always a reason in the future.
Yeah, there's something, who knows.
Gospel of Galactus.
I've pondered this subject very loosely a lot,
but I would be willing to bet aliens
would be wildly different than anything we come up with
because life loves to mess with expectations.
Kane.
I think it is definitely the case
that we have little ability to predict
the form of those extraterrestrials and their psychology.
In fact, one of the sections of the book
we actually speculate on,
what could an alien religion be like?
Like the actual religion of the extraterrestrials.
And our main conclusion from there is,
we see just how weirdly contingent
our myths and stories and religious views are,
that they are based on pure accidents
of biology and cosmology.
We actually give, I think, probably the most fun example
that your viewers will appreciate
is the Gospel of Mark at its story
of the Gersonian Dmoniac.
I think Dennis McDonald has very strongly shown
that this is based on the story of the Cyclops
from Homer's Odyssey.
So that Polyphemus, which means many voice,
becoming then the many demons haunting
the Gersonian Dmoniac.
Yeah, I think the evidence for there is very strong.
But then the question is,
well, where does homework get this idea of a Cyclops?
And you actually go back and you say
that actually the stories of Cyclopsies
might actually come from the accidental discovery
of elephant bones that were left from elephants
that went extinct before humans ever came in.
And if you look at an elephant skull,
you don't know what it is.
And there's this big hole for where the trunk was,
but not there anymore.
It looks like, hey, it looks like it's just this big hole
in the skull of some ugly looking dude.
And they're massive, so they're larger than human.
Yeah, and the fact that it looks like
just one big hole for an eye, but it's like,
oh, maybe this is actually the origin of the Cyclops.
And the thing is that evolution of elephants
is just an accident of Earth history.
There's not gonna be elephants necessarily
on every single planet with life on it.
That would be quite the conversion evolution
if that were true.
And so we realize there's no way then
that the aliens could develop that same story
of the Garrisonian Demonia because it was dependent
on this chain of accidents and authorial intentions
that all are based on trivial little details
of how the story of life developed here on Earth.
And you can see similar things with our stories
of the stars and constellations.
If you're in a different part of the galaxy,
you're gonna have completely different constellations.
And of course, you're probably not gonna have
the same images in the sky because it's like,
well, we have like the big and little bear.
Well, if you're on a planet without bears,
you're not gonna imagine bears in the sky
and have stories of how bears got up there.
So all of these weird contingencies
means like we have no ability to predict
what an alien religion would look like,
which also means if they did come here
and they had a religion very similar to ours,
that would actually be very strange.
And I think actually evidence for theism.
The chances of them developing a similar theology
to humans completely independently
is very hard to explain on just random chance.
That's why I thought, I mean, like,
to give a little pushback about some natural phenomena
that lead toward some systematic theological
or mythological narrative,
you have like ancient aliens, we've all seen it
where people are making crop, you know,
making crop circles or they're drawing giant figurines
in the earth of what looks like human type beings,
but they're actually aliens.
Or we find natural like plateaus,
mountaintop plateaus that are flat,
looking almost like perfectly flat tables.
As if, who made that?
I actually think that's where the idea of giants
may have come from.
Ronald Handel talks about this in the Hebrew Bible,
with you had these nomadic people probably due to drought
and agricultural, something agricultural caused them
to have to uplift and leave civilization in the Middle East.
And a lot of these massive civilizations,
people who had lots of people there
help build these massive structures, leave,
and then centuries later, the next civilization comes in,
they find this abandoned giant civilization,
you know how people think the pyramids are built by aliens.
So they see these giant walls and they go,
they had to be giants, you know, us,
our little 15 man crew or 100 man crew,
we didn't couldn't build this.
It had to be big humans, giants.
And so a lot of these kinds of myths come from that.
So I could see another world if rock formations
and planets are made of rocks and things like that.
Also do that, I could see some overlap
and it not necessarily imply theism,
but where this goes back to my point about life.
If life based on our understanding of the elements
and such chemistry into biology in some way,
share that common kind of cannibalistic survival mechanism
and they're all close to a star that warms it
and gives it light for it to have some type
of plant life grow, whatever.
There's probably gonna be potential overlap
at some point in their history to what they're experiencing.
And I do think religion is a reflection often
of the world in which people live and why do we die?
Why don't we live forever, you know, questions,
existential questions that that life force is trying
to describe and explain about the world they live in.
So I don't know if it necessarily would imply theism.
It would to me though, if they went meet our Jesus Christ.
You know, like they spoke English or like there's some way
in which it was so universal that there's people
on another planet, literally speaking English
who have a place called America.
And there's, you know, like that would really raise
some like statistical flags in my head to go hold up.
But just because I saw common things
wouldn't necessarily mean for me.
And that's what I mean that yeah,
if we found like the same theology happening
with the same sorts of stories, it's like, yeah,
there's like almost no chance of that developing accidentally.
But we have to also be careful if we're looking for it too hard.
I'll give a anecdote for that.
Cause I mentioned the idea of Jesuits coming down
the gangway from the alien spacecraft.
It's like, all right, if that happened,
that would be, you know, clearly impressive
because it's like, not only are they Christians,
but there are particular order
of the Catholic church coming from there.
It's like, okay, the chance of that happening
are wildly improbable.
But the Jesuits have also in their past
have kind of accidentally done this sort of thing.
So when the first Jesuits were going to China
in the 16th, 17th, 18th centuries
and trying to, you know, spread the word,
they were also then having to learn the language,
read their texts to try to translate and interpret
their beliefs into something that
Chinese could then better handle.
And they're reading their histories
and this movement amongst some of the Jesuits
was that, hey, if you read all of Chinese history
figuratively, they got the entire story of the Bible.
That you just have to, just have to squint just right
and everything is there.
And this movement was called figurism
because they're literally taking everything figurative
and they get the whole kit and caboodle
of the story of salvation and all that.
It's like, I think only like maybe a dozen Jesuits
ever actually believed it.
But nonetheless, that's the thing is like,
if you're looking a little too hard,
you'll find anything you're looking for
just becomes looking in the tea leaves
and interpreting what you want.
So-
I do like what you said though, like elephants,
they get this particular,
they have the hole in their skull,
looks like a Cyclops, the narrative of the Cyclops.
What are the odds that another planet
would have that exact narrative type thing?
It doesn't have to be identical with the same names,
but you know, the concept and that,
that would really raise some serious flags.
I would still want to approach it skeptically,
but I would look at it and go,
whoa, what the heck is up with this thing we call life?
It seems universal in some way.
But then again, what if we found out something
in the natural order of things kind of caused that
to be the case in the universe?
Yeah.
And of course we might also say
that maybe really ancient aliens is correct.
The aliens brought all of our religious movements here.
And if I may quote from Star Trek VI,
The Undiscovered Country,
you got to read Shakespeare,
he's better in the original Klingon.
Oh my gosh.
Thank you, Gospel of Galactus.
Is it Galactus?
Yeah.
Imneg, once a person decides to believe in something,
they will start to see all kinds of things
to validate that belief, validate that belief.
So here's a question.
Is there any physicists coming out sounding the alarm
on the so-called evidence of UFO?
Well, I mean, you can find some physicists
who are very much physicists or astronomers
who very much believe in the UFO phenomenon.
Probably the most prominent astronomer
who's been really pushing for the idea
that we actually had a visitor and astronomers recorded it
is a astronomer from Harvard, Avi Loeb.
He basically said that this interstellar object
that came at our solar system,
well, was it now four years ago, five years ago?
I'm forgetting exactly.
It was called Amor Amor.
That was the name we gave it.
It comes from a Hawaiian word for scout.
And we know it actually came from outside of our solar system
because of its orbital energy
that there's no way it could have actually just been
in orbit around the sun.
This is something that basically shot through
and shot back out and is never coming back.
Most astronomers figured this is something like a comet,
but a comet that originated from another star system.
Loeb suggests that actually it has this weird trajectory
in its motions that suggests that actually it is a light sail
and is actually a sign of alien technology.
And he's had a very hard time convincing other astronomers
that he's right and for good reason.
There are good scientific grounds for doubting what he's saying
besides the initial improbability that it's alien tech.
At the very least, the story of this thing coming in
is a bit interesting because the story of this interstellar
object of this shape, this like oblong shape
that this object had is very similar to another Arthur C.
Clark story called rendezvous with Rama
where this giant cylinder comes in from interstellar space
and everyone realizes, oh, this is actually an alien craft
and that it zips around the sun and a team of astronomers
like astronauts land on it and go inside
and find out like this basically giant cylinder size city.
That does not happen in this case.
Unfortunately, we didn't send any astronauts to or more
or more, but I was like, when that thing came in,
it's like, we had an opportunity to call it Rama,
but we missed it.
Wow.
Yeah, there's a lot of really smart people
who can make that kind of conclusion
that they're aliens or whatnot.
And just throwing the two up there
before we leave this super chat,
really appreciate the support of Nang.
In your head, it's far more plausible, I imagine,
based on what you see in your experience and learning.
I'm sure Jonathan would probably agree that alien life is,
I mean, that we could potentially be being visited
or there's some extra terrestrial life that maybe,
I don't think it is.
I think we're perceiving things
or we're making misjudgments about what we're seeing
or whatever it might be.
There's also the fact that humans are fickle
and we hallucinate, we see things,
we, you know, all sorts of things
that can explain why we think we see things.
But that's far more plausible in your mind
than the idea of the Omni-God.
Oh, yeah.
Well, at the very least, aliens don't have to break
the laws of physics to exist.
They don't have to break the laws of physics to get here.
It's just basically an engineering problem
and a social problem where the aliens even have the will
to trek across the stars to come and visit us
and then bother somebody in the hills of Nebraska
or what have you.
So there's all those initial implausibilities,
but you can also say the same thing about a deity,
about the aliens.
If the aliens want to come here, that seems weird.
If God wants to come here in human form,
it's like that is not any less weird initially, it would seem.
And at the very least, we know potentially
how we could build a spaceship that could go to the stars.
We just know that it will take geological periods of time
to get there.
Yeah, that we don't have to break physics
for that to work for Omni-God.
We need physics to be broken on a daily basis.
Well said.
Someone quote that.
Someone needs to go around and coin that.
Constellation Pegasus is the fine-tuning argument
in the book.
That's really getting old.
Yeah, we only touch it a little bit
just in the way that Jonathan mentioned earlier,
that you can imagine a universe absolutely teaming
with life, a universe with where the only life
in the entirety of the cosmos and life
where it's just kind of like randomly spread around.
Which version of the universe would theism predict?
And the thing is different arguments for theism
give you different results.
So if you take fine-tuning, it becomes a bit distracted
from the ideas like, well, if the universe is fine-tuned
for life, why is it that it barely exists anywhere?
It's just barely crawling onto the surface of this one rock.
And potentially, this is the only rock in the entire
solar system with life on it.
You would say, the universe is built for life.
Okay, and how much life is in the universe?
Well, that one spec over there.
That's what the universe is for.
It's like, I think your proportionality
is a bit off there, buddy.
Right, and it's a great humbling thing to consider.
I like the image from one of the space shuttles
we have out that has the speck of earth.
I mean, it's like a dot and...
Yes, the image you're probably referring to,
there's two images, the most famous one was taken
by the Voyager 1 probe in the early 1990s,
where yeah, it turned around to take an image of earth
and the entirety of earth is just this one pixel
caught in a internal reflection in the optics of the probe.
That's what I was gonna say, yeah.
There seemed like a light, almost like caught up
in a light a little bit of a dot.
It's nothing.
Technically, if you were taking this photo,
you would have said, oh, I'm gonna delete that
because you got this weird reflection inside
the optics of your camera.
But one, there wasn't gonna be any more opportunities
because the probe doesn't have the energy
to keep taking these pictures.
And secondly, Sagan was able to look at this image
and masterfully create his...
Even though he wasn't a poet,
his use of prose feels like poetry.
He was a wordsmith beyond almost any other astronomer
is able to do.
Wow.
Thank you, Constellation.
Van Schenk Guitars, just to say thank you
for the work you do.
Thank you, it is appreciated.
Yeah, thank you so much for that.
Really appreciate the support
and I'm glad that you are getting some positive feedback
out of this.
Bilal Kolkak, thank you for that Kolkak.
Thank you for that super chat.
I think it's super chat, super stick or whatever that is.
Thank you so much for that.
We are caught up here.
I didn't wanna leave anybody hanging.
Dr. Adair, why should people get the book?
Well, there's only one way to salvation
and this happens to be the only one true book
that will get you there.
All the other ones might make that claim,
but we have the science to back us up.
We do the math.
It touches so many fascinating subjects
that we touch pure physics and mathematics.
We do computer simulations.
We talk about what is the nature of intelligence?
How we can go and possibly detect it all
and yeah, what are the societal
and religious implications of it all?
So if you're an atheist, you could see,
hey, here are problems that religion can have.
If you're religious, you could say,
here are the things that you're going to wanna be considering
if aliens come by.
And some religions will be in better shape than others.
The Mormons, they're gonna be okay.
The Scientologists, less so than you think.
The Catholics, they have more explaining
to do than other groups.
And yeah, and this was a lot of fun to create.
I think there's a lot that a reader will learn from it.
And I also hope it creates some interesting conversations
and see where religious beliefs can go.
And even as non-believers,
knowing that the search for life beyond Earth
has implications for our future,
that we can actually realize if we do discover
life beyond here, that actually gives us reason for hope.
And the reasons to be scared of life forms out there,
I think we give some reasons why it,
the universe isn't as scary
as sometimes science fiction makes it.
Well, I hope people will sign up.
Let me see what our poll says here.
I did pin the book at the top with the Amazon link.
Have you ever bought a book by Jonathan M.S. Pierce
or Dr. Aaron Adair?
85% have not, 8%, well, mind you, there's 387 votes,
going to grab it one now.
So 8% is going to grab a book from you or him
or this book, which I hope they get.
And then a 6% of our viewers have.
So there's a huge market of people who have not got,
purchased any of your books.
And hopefully we can get them to tune in.
You've got the Nativity, you've got,
or yeah, you've got the Nativity.
Jonathan has all sorts of books.
And this one you're gonna do.
A small question there.
Jonathan wrote the Nativity.
I wrote on just one part of the Nativity,
the star Bethlehem portion of that.
So in some ways, mine is kind of a sequel
or extended appendix of his Nativity book
because I do all the astronomy
or alleged astronomy to explain the Nativity story.
I really appreciate you.
It's always fun to learn from you
and being someone who's a big science guru
and loves to learn about all the science out there.
It's great to have you on.
If anyone's interested in seeing another version
of this interview that you haven't watched,
you can watch over at Nostica Informant.
I know that you guys did it.
And I'm sure you covered things we didn't even discuss
because there's so much to cover on this.
And maybe we can have you back to cover more,
get into the theology problems and such.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Like one thing we didn't touch at all.
And it's something that even the Astro Theologians
haven't realized they need to touch on.
How does eschatology work with aliens?
Are they gonna come and blow us up?
Oh, there's that eschatology,
but also how do you have a new heavens and a new earth
when there are trillions of earths?
There's all sorts of stuff to cover.
I seriously appreciate you, Dr. Dare.
Get the book, ladies and gentlemen.
Hit the like button on this,
share it out, drop a comment.
And if you feel like you could financially support,
join the Patreon.
We do work very hard to try and bring you fun conversations
like this and educate the general public.
So thank you, Aaron.
Hope you had fun.
Absolutely, always good to be here.
And never forget, we are MythVision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Children can do that.
Don't mind, don't do that, you're not your father.
Make sure your fist is completely healed.
It's just because today is the day
it will be over and we will be together.
Don't worry, baby, we'll stay away from you,
even if you're about to cry.
That's the truth.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh,
