Professor John J. Collins, thanks so much for joining me, I'm so excited about this.
Good friend of mine and also a patron member, Artie Hagen, says for Dr. Collins, one thing
that I find confounding about apocalyptic literature is its obscurity.
I would think that if there is an almighty God, and if that God has some message, some
hugely consequential message, I love the way you're leading up, Artie, this is interesting,
a hugely consequential message that he wants to communicate to humanity, then it is puzzling
why this message is so obscure, so ambiguous, it does not seem credible that the God who
once inscribed 10 commandments on stone tablets would now be resorting to sending these surrealistic,
surrealistic, sorry, visions. So then my question is, why have so many people taken these somewhat
bizarre documents so very seriously? Well, you know, people, some people take them as actual
revelations. Now, first of all, it's not going to do you any good to ask why God does one thing
or another. We have no access to that. The question really is, why do people
write supposed revelations in this kind of a style? Now, the 10 commandments are rather
exceptional in so far as they're clear. That's very unusual in the Bible. No, but most prophets
most apocalyptic writers have visions that are enormously complicated. Now, why is that? Well,
it's because put yourself in the position of the person having the vision, and instead of
thinking of them having a vision, think of them trying to figure things out. And when they try
to figure things out, they realize life is obscure. Most of the big problems in life are obscure.
And so, you know, what they want to convey is the sense of seeing it last darkly.
They don't want things to seem too clear. They often also want to leave things so that they
can be interpreted in more than one way. And that if the initial interpretation doesn't work out,
it can go to plan B. But I think it's an attempt to respond to the obscurity of life.
And the answer really to the question is that you're coming at it from the wrong side.
It doesn't do us any good to speculate on why God did this or that. We don't really know
what God did or did not do. What we have are writings that claim God said or didn't say something.
And that's the question. Why do the writers, the human writers do it this way?
That brings up an interesting question. I think that's so basic. You're going to be like,
okay, this is a powerful question asked, though. What is a profit? Because
you watched your recent lecture on this, Old Testament interpretation. And you do such a
fantastic job on just showing the humanity of these texts. But, you know, prophets were a
dime a dozen and they were in the pocket of the kings. And then maybe you can tell us about prophets
and what was their role? What were they supposed to do? That might answer the question in a more
proper angle, so then you can kind of know. Well, now a prophet is a person who claims to get
inspiration and to be inspired by some kind of divine spirit. Now, the story of Balaam,
Balaam wasn't even supposed to be an Israelite. But, you know, it seems like he has something
like an epileptic fit. And then while he is in that state, he sees something.
Now, so no doubt prophets were people who had strange experiences. And that's what gave them
credibility to some degree. For a lot of the Old Testament or Hebrew Bible period,
you have whole guilds of prophets. If they first appear in the books of Samuel, they travel in packs
and you hear of Samuel conducting them. And Saul at one point takes off his clothes and
lies down naked with them all night. He gets some kind of ecstatic behavior. But for all of that,
you know, the prophets that we have in the Hebrew Bible are managing their ecstasies.
In other words, they try to say things that do make sense. And a lot of it is political.
Kings kept, according to some accounts, a king could have 400 prophets.
Who ate at his table is the way they put it. In other words, he was supporting them.
Now, the king decides he wants to go to war.
But he wants to consult the prophets first to see, is this the will of God?
What are the prophets going to say? Yes, your majesty, do what is in your mind, your majesty.
And then the interesting prophets are the one out of the 400 who will buck the trend
and go against it. And tell the king, yes, go up to bat, then you're going to get killed.
And then the king has the dilemma, which one should he believe?
And the best solution is go up to battle. And if he gets killed, he'll know that the one
prophet was right. But it's a little late for him then. And that's the way to test all of these
actually is after the fact. X event two, if I could say. It's all after the fact. It's the only
really, you know, the other question you have, if the king might have asked himself is,
is this something I really need to do? Is this a risk they are to take?
This begs a question further into the prophets, if you don't mind, before we hop off that idea.
Are there any clear descriptions of prophets that are aware of other prophets' writings that
they purposely don't agree with and they contradict? Oh, I mean, there are certainly stories of prophetic
conflict. They don't usually involve other prophets' writings we have.
Actually, none of the prophets really wrote anything. They gave oracles and somebody came
along afterwards and wrote them down. There are definite differences in perspective, say,
between Jeremiah and Ezekiel, both of whom live through the destruction of Jerusalem.
And they read the whole course of events very differently. But you don't get oracles preserved
where they're fighting with each other. You do get oracles preserved for Jeremiah is fighting
with other prophets. And he had a very hard time because he was telling people that God is on the
side of the Babylonians. And that just doesn't play. Yeah. So are there contradictions, though,
you would say, maybe between different prophet books? Well, yeah. I mean, what constitutes a
contradiction? Right. Maybe, you know, it's debatable, but definitely different perspectives.
Like they don't agree with a particular what their purpose or intentions are on certain things.
To oversimplify the thing, according to Jeremiah, the reason Jerusalem was destroyed was because
they weren't practicing justice. According to Ezekiel, the reason Jerusalem was destroyed was
they weren't preserving holiness and purity. Now, those are very, very different takes on it.
Not necessarily incompatible with each other, but they're pulling in opposite directions.
It even seems like some of these prophets have like you talked about a vision of a universal,
even sometimes optimistic for nations that aren't Israel. Whereas others are like, no,
we're going to just crush these people. We just defeat and kill the enemy. That seems like that
could possibly qualify for like contradictions in a way like one is more optimistic about the
nations. One's not. Yeah. But you can always work your way around the contradiction. Of course.
There's enough wiggle room, but they're different. Has that ever frustrated you that when you're
like reading other scholars and you're like, you get a little bit like, it's not so clear,
black and white. This is what it actually means to a point where you see certain scholars you're
reading and you're going, you're playing wiggle with. Oh, I mean, some of it, yes. I mean, there's
an awful lot of apologetic scholarship out there. Scholars who are trying to make the Bible look
good. You're not trying to make it look bad either. No, no. But there's no point in trying to make
it look good. Because if you try to make it look better than it is, well, in the book of Job
that problem is discussed very directly. And Job says to his friends, would you lie for God?
Would you distort the evidence to make God look good? And for Job, obviously, you shouldn't do
that. And he says, he's not going to like it. And in the end of the book of Job, he doesn't.
Thank you, Dr. Collins.
