Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor John J. Collins, thank you again.
And this is so much fun, we're going in some really deep conversation here.
One of my Patreon members, Jerry Gardner, he says, for either, and he's talking about either
Dr. Baden or you, the question would be because I was like, what do you guys want me to ask?
If the Israelites were not slaves in Egypt, and there was no Exodus and city quest,
how did Israel form? How did this disparate 12 tribes come together to form Kingdom?
Why did the other Canaanite groups join as well?
First of all, you know, I am not prepared to say that there were no Hebrews who were
slaves in Egypt. I would think there surely were, and there surely were many at different times.
But I think what you get in the Bible is a kind of composite story, where different
memories get fitted together into a more or less coherent story.
And there has been an awful lot of work done in the last 50 years or so on early Israel.
Now, for what it's worth, I mean, this is mainly done by archaeologists. I'm not an archaeologist,
and if I've learned anything from this, I know that whatever archaeologists say
is going to change. It's in the nature of the business, because if they go back out to the field
like summer and dig somewhere else, they'll find something that they hadn't known before
was there. That's the nature of archaeology. But the current consensus on archaeology is that
if you look at Israel in the period roughly 1200 to 1000, which according to the Bible
is the point when Israel should have been settling in the land, coming into the land.
Again, you know, some vagueness on the dates. Now, first of all, no evidence of Egyptian influence
on the culture, because you do have a change in the culture. And that is in the highlands of Canaan,
you have the growth of unwalled villages. So these are not powerful people,
but people moving into the highlands of Canaan. Now, the highlands of Canaan is the region around
Shechem, the West Bank, basically. And that's evidently where they moved in. This fits,
you know, reasonably well with the Book of Judges, because then when eventually they become strong,
then they come down and attack the cities. But it takes a while. Now, no sign that they
brought parts from Egypt, for example, which you would expect if they had all come out of Egypt.
Where did they come from? The consensus. And the consensus, though, is good for the moment,
but not necessarily the last word on it. And the consensus is that they were Canaanites,
that it was similar to what you had in Canaanite villages. One theory is that around the same
time the Philistines were coming in, attacking the coast, and that some of these people may have
fled because of the turbulence in the lowlands. Some of them might even have rebuilt against
some of the city-states. That's, again, debatable. Norman Gottwald wrote a famous treatment of that.
But they seem to have been Canaanites who fled up there. Now, somebody at some point came along
and told them that they should worship the god Yahweh, who had not been worshiped in that area,
as far as we know before, say, what, 1300? As far as we know. Again, this could change,
but that's the present state. Again, most of the evidence seems to be that Yahweh was a god
worshiped in the south, south of Edom, wherever you put Mount Sinai. And now Mount Sinai probably
wasn't actually down in the Sinai Peninsula. It may have been over in Paprika and Midian,
and some of the stories are said over there. And it seems that Yahweh was a god who was worshiped,
a storm god worshiped in that area. Now, that suggests then that some people came from there.
There was some influence from there, and those people went over a following to worshiping this
god. And then, you know, one thing leads to another, stories develop, and eventually,
Yahweh acquires a new personality in the biblical stories. The whole process takes a few hundred
years. Do you think there was a united monarchy, or do you think that there were just two different
locales where Yahweh kind of separately grows and they work together somewhat?
I don't have any objection to the idea of a united monarchy. I don't see that it's particularly
problematic. That doesn't necessarily mean that it's a fact. We don't really have independent evidence
of it. But, you know, that you have a very strong sense in later times that these were really
very closely related peoples. So, you know, I don't see any great problem with the idea of
there being a united monarchy. But if somebody actually came up with evidence that there wasn't,
how to prove a negative, but I wouldn't have a problem with that either. But there surely was
a sense that they were one people before they developed a monarchy at all.
Interesting.
Now, you see, if there wasn't a united monarchy, what then, David presumably would just have
been a southern chieftain. And then, you would just have grandiose claims by the southern kingdom.
But, you know, there's no evidence on that one way or the other. And in that case, it's happy
to go with the biblical account. And then the final one in this vein is that there's this,
the conquest. So, obviously, I've interviewed Ronald Handel. I'm sure you know who Dr. Handel is.
Yeah, he actually did the cultural memory argument of the Exodus and did a fantastic
job explaining the Highland, the whole thing you're talking about. And that even if they weren't
in Egypt, even though he does think there were definitely Hebrews or these types of Canaanites
over in Egypt, that also Canaan was ruled by them and they would go and pick up slaves or,
you know, have them do tasks for them and slave for them. So, the fact that when
Egypt collapses, it's kind of this whole, our God did it. You know, now we can,
so the conquest, though, we didn't really get too deep into that. I'm trying to explain how
these peaceful, no-walled Canaanites who move into the Highlands are now these warriors fighting
these battles against all these different... Well, you know, again, we're dependent here on archaeology.
That's the only control we have. Now, most of the sites that are destroyed in the book of Joshua
were not destroyed at the appropriate time in history. Jericho being the showcase example.
Jericho apparently hadn't been a walled city for some time before that.
There are a few places like Hatzor that were destroyed. Now, whether they were destroyed by
Israelites is another question because they could have been destroyed also by Philistines,
by people coming in from the coast. But the consensus is, you know, that the mass of conquest
described in Joshua did not happen. The question then becomes, who made up that story and why?
And, you know, the story, there's an evangelical scholar named Lawson Younger who has a good book
on this, on how the story of the conquest is, certainly resembles, possibly is modeled on
Assyrian conquest. You know, that the Assyrians both left nobody alive. Well,
Joshua is going to match that. Now, when would this have been written? Right. This is a very
difficult question. Some people thought in the time of Josiah, but now it doesn't really seem to me
that Josiah carried out any great violent conquests either. Was it sometime after the return from
the exile? Was this something, you know, an ideological document? I mean, it surely is an
ideological document that's saying you should have nothing to do with the peoples of the land.
Now, from that point of view, this might be somewhat congenial to what you get in the book of Ezra.
It's the, you know, the anti-Samaritan argument that you really should not leave any of the
native peoples alive in that part of the world. Possibly, didn't there somewhere? But I don't
really have a good answer as to where the book of Joshua comes from. I'm editing a big commentary
by Tom Dole's man. He published the first half of it, and he is a very complicated idea. He thinks
it was written in northern Israel, and that doesn't make sense to me. Interesting. But
do you think you think Philistine people actually would convert and come and join? Do you think at
any time in history they ever joined maybe some of them? The Israelites? Not much. Now, the Philistines
actually seem to have been relatively cultured people. Larry Steger thought there were Greeks,
you know, that they came in from the west. He said, but Philistine culture as you got it in a
place like Ashkelon was a bit more sophisticated, whereas the villages up in the highlands, these
were crude. You know, that's one of the striking things about them is that there seemed to have
been a breakdown in civilization. Thank you.
