Mimps's criticism is about how texts use literary models in the composition of famous models,
models that are well known in your culture, and then use that as a template. The Fayyakians
in the Odyssey, it mentions that they often threatened by the Cyclopes. And so you have here
Odysseus battling with one of the Cyclops who represent this foreign threat. And so in that
sense it would make sense for Judith to imitate Odysseus in this situation, the Cyclopes representing
a foreign threat to the Fayyakians, the Assyrians representing a foreign threat to the Israelites.
So the storm hits the ship, wrecking the boat as they get close to land, and because of Paul's
instructions, everybody lives. They go to a house of a rich person on the island,
and then he's well received there, and they send him on his way. All of that,
that sequence especially should call to mind in the Odyssey.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Ladies and
gentlemen, we're talking about memetic connections today. How does Mimesis work, and is it
operating in the New Testament outside of Jewish literature, the Bible? And today I have Dr.
Michael Koshnosh. Welcome back to MythVision, my friend. Thank you very much. Thank you. Just for
the sake of our audience, because we've only done one video before in the past, tell us your
expertise, credentials, school, etc., and what we're going to talk about. Yeah, thank you. So I
did my PhD at Claremont with Dennis McDonald as my dissertation director, and I did a postdoc in
China, and I'm actually just about to start as a recording in a couple of weeks. I'll be going
out to the Netherlands to start a postdoc at Radbaad University, where I'll be working on
the Book of Acts and its use of literary models for a particular purpose. But yeah, so my research
focuses on early Christian and early Jewish narratives, primarily situating them in the
ancient Mediterranean world, trying to read them as products of the ancient Mediterranean world,
along with other writings. So treating them the way you would treat any writing from the
ancient Mediterranean world, but it's not closing them off from Greek and Roman literature or
cultures, but to all of that, including the Jewish scriptures, but also others. So today,
we're going to be dealing with these literary models and going into Acts, I believe, specifically,
but we're going to be talking about other things as well, Luke, Luke Acts, etc. Go ahead, take us
into what you wanted to present today, and I hope everybody in the audience knows to go down in the
description. You guys can check out the links there, and let us know what you think of this
episode when it's done. Yeah, so I'm sure a lot of your viewers and listeners are familiar with
Dennis McDonald's Mimesis Criticism, but we'll talk about it a little bit just in
general terms for those who may not be as familiar. The way I talk about is Mimesis Criticism is about
how texts use literary models in the composition of their texts. What you want to do is you want
to write a story about something, and you, with certain themes, certain topics, one way to go
about that, especially in antiquity, is to look to models, famous models, models that are well
known in your culture, that are about those themes, about those topics, and then use that as a template
of sorts. And you could do that either for the macro structure of the narrative you want to write,
or for the micro structure of a smaller episode or a series of episodes, or even just for how you
characterize people within your narrative. You can use examples from literature as a way to do that.
And so the way I think about it is sort of a reverse engineer, right? So if you want to
write a story about a topic, you look for something that, a story that features that topic, and you
use that as a template. So when you want to make it known to your readers that you're doing this,
you would often not only follow the structure and characterizations, you would sometimes leave
non sequiturs within your story. Things that don't make sense on a plain reading that can prompt
the readers to think what is going on, why did the narrative do this, and hopefully you've left
enough clues that can guide them to where you do that. Dennis often talks about proper names,
proper names that are odd, or even if they're not odd, they can still signal toward what model is
being invoked. But all this, you don't even need to have to want your audience to know that you're
doing it, or you could want just like a subset of your audience to recognize it, such that
gives pleasure to readers who recognize what you're doing, but not everybody needs to recognize
what you're doing in order to appreciate your story. So one of the things that you mentioned
about this, this is what I fell in love with when Dennis started talking about literary models and
how they would use a common theme or story that had some serious roots in the culture,
in particular that they're writing in. It's not like they're using a Chinese story,
let's say, over here in Rome. It's relevant that you would think, okay, hold on, they learned
Greek, they know Homer, they know the Hebrew Bible, they believe in prophecy from the Bible,
there's both and, and this shows Hellenism. But it also makes me think that if they're doing this,
this should lower our confidence in the, like, how much of this is actually historical,
but not so much so that we end up necessarily saying, oh, it's complete fiction, there is no
there's no root to this blah, blah, blah, because there needs to be verisimilitude as well to history.
So I just thought about that along the way is like, okay, if I'm going to write a story,
I'm going to make it relevant with real people, places and things today. Even if I fictionalize
them in some degree, there's still historical, you know, verisimilitude in some way.
Yeah, so it depends. And to some extent, it's really what I talk about in my research has,
I would say, little bearing on the historicity of what is behind the text, if anything.
So if you were to tell a story about a certain theme, so I'm speaking very broadly,
we'll get into specifics with the example, so it'll be more clear later, maybe.
Let's say you want to tell the story about Jesus that plays on a particular theme. And you know
of a famous story by Euripides or by Homer or in the Jewish scriptures that presents that theme in
a way that your audience will know and be familiar with and appreciate. It would make sense to model
your presentation of Jesus using those models. But it doesn't tell a modern reader, especially
anything about, well, did that thing actually happen? It might have, it might not have. What we
know or what I think we can know is that writers told their stories using models. And so you had
David Litwa on. That's what I was going to ask you about. Yeah. Yeah. And so I admire his work.
It's a little different from what I do, but he likes to talk about cultural tropes. And so there
are certain ways that you tell certain kinds of stories and antiquity that have cultural logic
to them. So if you want to tell a story about whatever, an exorcism or something, there are
certain ways you do that. It's very generic. And I think he's right. I mean, I think there is an
extent to which that's true. But there are also times where there are particular literary models
that the author has in mind. As far as we can say, we don't know. We can't interrogate the author to
find out what they had in mind. But there are clues and you can argue about the credibility of the
claim that the author is imitating a particular literary model as opposed to a generic one.
And Litwa himself in his book, The Gospels, How the Gospels Became History, he even in that
book refers to the Gospels imitating Jewish scriptures, in the way that McDonald will talk
about. So they're not incompatible. It's just a matter of where he or I or anybody else would
land in any particular case. So I think he's right that there are sort of cultural scripts
for telling stories, but there are also particular scripts. And he would say, I think,
based on what I've read, that a lot of times they do have the basis in Homer or Euripides or some
famous work of Greek literature, but that they're so often imitated that they become culturally
diffuse and lose any meaningful connection to Homer or Euripides or so on. And in some cases,
that may be true. But I don't think that should be presumed ahead of time. I think there is an
argument to be made one way or the other. If you could tell us how Luke is imitating
first Kings, because this is, you brought this up in our Better Call Paul Saul episode somewhat.
Yeah, this would be good to get into again. Yeah, so this is in, I actually don't remember
talking about, do we talk about Luke's Gospel in that episode? No, actually it was Axe. Yes,
definitely Axe talks about, yeah, no, that's fine. I couldn't remember to be honest. So
the book of Axe, as we talked about in our last talk, does imitate the presentation of Saul
in first Samuel, right? But here we can talk about how the Gospel of Luke imitates
first Kings. So it would be a couple of weeks later, but in the same series of books in the
Jewish scriptures. So here's where I said it would make more sense when we talk about specific
examples. So I said before that you want to think about an example of a type of theme
in earlier literature. This is what I would think is happening. It's easy to imagine that Luke,
which we'll call the author of the Gospel of Luke for convenience sake, that Luke wanted to tell
the story about Jesus as a miracle working prophetic figure who had a particular interest in
those who were on the socioeconomic margins of society. I think that's a fair conclusion to draw
based on a reading of Luke without any knowledge of literary models or anything like that. And if
that's the case, Luke had a ready model at hand, the prophet Elijah, who was a miracle working
prophet who events to care for socioeconomically marginalized people. And when we get to Luke
7, we have a story about Jesus healing a woman's widow's only son that very clearly imitates first
King 17, where Jesus raises a woman's a widow's son from the dead. If I were to estimate off the
top of my head, I would say this is probably one of the surest examples of literary imitation
in the New Testament, maybe one of the least controversial, the least contested examples
that you could find. So what you have is Jesus comes to the town, he gets to the gate of the town and
sees a funeral procession for a widow's only son who has died. And he comes and then he raises him
back from the dead. And the text says he gave him to his mother. And then those who see that say
there's a great prophet has risen among us. And so this is an excellent example of Dennis
McDonald's criteria, if your listeners are familiar with that. So the access, analogy,
density order, distinctiveness, and then interpretability.
In density order, these are very quickly met because in first King 17, you have Elijah coming to a
town. He meets a widow at the gate. But then there's a little episode in between. And then the
widow's son dies. And he goes up to the upper room with the dead boy's body. And then commands it to
rise from the dead. It does, he does rise back. And he gives him to his mother. And then they
recognize that a man of God. So it's structurally very similar. And in the same order,
you have a distinctive trait, because you have a verbatim repetition in both. So in the
Septuagint version of first Kings, he gave him to his mother is identical to what Luke has,
he gave him to his mother. But also the interpretability, you have the question of what is Luke
trying to accomplish by doing this. And you have, well, he wants to present Jesus as a prophetic
figure that makes sense to his audience. And doing so, presenting Jesus this way, that is,
signals to them that Elijah is in mind as a model. They're familiar with Elijah,
and they can interpret Jesus through this framework of Elijah's ministry.
So one other important criterion that is met here is accessibility, which there's no question
that that first Kings was available to a first century, second century audience.
But we know for sure that Luke had access to at least the stories, whether or not a manuscript,
because in Luke chapter four, Luke presents Jesus referring to this episode, actually the
episode in between Jesus coming to the town and then healing the woman. So in explaining his ministry
in Nazareth, Jesus refers to Elijah in this episode. And so it seems very sure that that's
what Luke is up to here. So he's not only referencing Elijah in this story, but he's also
mimicking and imitating the very place that he's using to reference. In Luke four, he refers to
it in Luke seven, he imitates it. Wow. Three chapters later. Right. It's fascinating.
There's your fingerprint. It seems like it. And you have very mainstream Bible scholars like Luke
Timothy Johnson, for instance, stating this very straightforwardly. Like this is obviously what's
happening here. So they don't do the same. They don't do the same with the Greek stuff. So this
is not as much. Not as much. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like I don't think it's fairly being and I get why
you see clear quotations, right? It is right. It is written. But we talked about that with Dennis
too, where he points out like it is written. So what? The Aeneid literally entirely mimics
and doesn't quote the Homeric, you know, not once. So you wouldn't go, well, in Homer,
chapter six verse, get out of here. You know, I don't even know if they were written that way,
either way, you know, right? Well, in Virgil's defense, he uses a lot of the same characters.
And so that helps. But yeah, Virgil doesn't need to tell his audience what he's doing,
because it's so clear. Yeah. And Luke is, it's, I get it, like it's a sort of a degree removed from
Virgil, I mean, in one way at least, a degree removed, in that the most obvious reference
are Jewish scriptures. And I think that's fair. But Dennis doesn't discount that possibility to
my knowledge. And I certainly deal with with the use of Jewish scriptures and early Christian
literature. But it doesn't need to end there. Right. Now, what about Acts? You're going to
bring up Acts and the Homeric epics. That's a. Yeah. Yeah. So if that example from Luke's
gospel is maybe the most certain example of mimesis in the New Testament, probably,
again, off the top of my head, the least contested instance of a New Testament text imitating
a classical Greek work of literature, it would be Acts 27 and 28. So Dennis McDonald has the
definitive article on this from 1999, called the shipwrecks of Odysseus and Paul in New
Testament studies. And so, so what happens here is Paul is on his way to Rome, he's in Roman
custody, he's going to go stand before before Caesar, but he experiences choppy waters. So the
storm hits the ship and they end up wrecking the boat as they get close to land. And because of
Paul's instructions, everybody lives, they ride the planks to the shore and they're met,
while these people mistake Paul for a God, but then realize he's not a God, but then they take
goes to a house of a rich person on the island, and then he's well received there and they sent
him on his way. All of that, that sequence especially should call to mind the Odyssey.
And as McDonald presents, it's both in Odyssey five and Odyssey 12. So those are the shipwrecks
first in Odyssey five, where he arrives at the shore of the Phaeachians. And then he that's
where he tells his story with a long first person narration. And Odyssey 12 is where he previously
sold in flashback lands at shipwrecks on the island of Calypso, and that's where all of his
his shipmates die. But so you get all of this that is structurally similar, the Phaeachians
receive, they're very rich, they receive Odysseus and then send him, they send him on his way just
like the the Maltese peoples and Paul on his way. But really what clinches it is, is the language
that Luke uses. And so even so it's where he runs, where Luke says they ran the boat ashore,
the word used is Homeric Greek. And so even as conservative a scholar as F.F. Bruce,
some viewers might be familiar, very conservative, says this is unmistakably Homeric. And so
and he wouldn't go so far as to say the whole episode is structured after the Odyssey, but
it's clearly a reference to the Odyssey. Wow, I love this stuff. I really do.
And so Dennis in his article he talks about it. The reason for this is to contrast Paul with Odysseus,
you know, Paul saves everybody's life, everybody's lives. Odysseus saves nobody but himself.
That's right. And so not a hair on their head. Right, right. Yeah, they're all safe. They were
actually after they ship their shipwrecked, the soldiers wanted to execute all of the prisoners,
but Paul prevented it via the centurion that that was friendly with Paul.
Wow. Okay, so you want to tell us about the couple examples of earlier Jewish narratives,
Judith, Joseph, and Aseneth? Is it Aseneth? Aseneth, yeah. Aseneth. Yeah, so I wanted to talk about
these because I think there's often at least an unstated assumption that when we talk about this
in early Christian narratives, whether Luke or Acts or Mark or something from the second
or third century in Christian literature, that this is sort of new for Jewish types of writings,
but that doesn't seem to be the case. So here are two examples I want to talk about from Judith
and from Joseph and Aseneth. Judith, I'm working on an article on this right now, so it's not
available. It's not finished yet. And Joseph and Aseneth, I have an article that was published
a year or so ago, but it's not very accessible, unfortunately. But so I'll be building off of
that. But in both of these cases, both written in Greek, probably, both written around the year 100
BCE, so well before the time of Christ, before the New Testament writings. We have examples of
Jewish novelistic writings that imitate Jewish scriptures in what are very fairly certain ways,
but they're also imitating classical Greek literature and or Greek mythology as a part
of telling their stories. So Judith, I'll give a little background of what Judith is about.
This is an entirely fictional narrative. I don't think there's any,
there's nobody contesting that. It gives away its fictionality very blatantly. It says it's about
an attack by the Assyrian army led by King Nebuchadnezzar, who readers would know is a Babylonian.
So right off the bat, you understand this is either really bad history or it's just absurd
non-history. It's an effective story. And then that is what it is. So the first seven chapters are
about Nebuchadnezzar's armies led by Halophanes, a general, and they're taking over town after town,
and they get close to Israel. And that's where the tension is. So around chapter eight, you would
be introduced to Judith. She is a widow, but she's going to take matters into her own hands.
So the way that Bethulia is situated is between the army and Jerusalem, but also the narrative
describes it as the path to it being a very narrow path, which is geographically,
it doesn't, we don't know where that would be. Right, Bethulia is not attested as an actual place,
to my knowledge, and certainly the geography in the area around Jerusalem doesn't
lend itself to this description. And so what that seems to be is a reference to the Battle of
Thermopylae, where the Greeks, and especially the Spartan army, hold off the Persian invaders
who are greatly on number them at a narrow past Thermopylae and resist their invasion.
So that's in itself is a way of referring to a well-known Greek story from Herodotus,
primarily from our records, to explain this situation, to give readers context for how to
think about this situation. Like this is as dire for the Israelites as it was for the Greeks as the
Persians invaded. So what Judith does, so they're in trouble, Judith devises a scheme where she
beautifies herself and then sneaks into the camp of the Assyrians under the guise of being
somebody surrendering, which is itself a trope that you see in Herodotus and elsewhere.
But she's beautiful and Holophenes wants to sleep with her and eventually she's alone with him in
his tent. He drinks wine, he drinks more wine than he's ever had before, I think the text says,
but then he passes out and Judith takes his sword and cuts off his head, and then takes
a head in her sack and goes back and displays it in Bethulia. And when they see his dead body,
the Assyrians panic and retreat and the Israelites go after them.
But one of the models, and so we talked about thermopoly already, but one of the models from
Jewish scriptures that informs this, there are a ton actually. I've been really impressed
with how rich this is intertextually, but the one I want to talk about is David and Goliath.
So that's a fairly well-known story from First Samuel, right? So once again, back there.
Where the Israelites are threatened by the Philistines, you have this giant Goliath who demands
combat of champions. And David steps up and slings the stone at him and then takes Goliath's
swords and cuts off his head. And the Greek phrase, he cut off his head, is identical to what Judith
has for she cut off his head. So it's generic enough that in and of itself, it's not really
noteworthy. But in the context of all the other contextual similarities, it's fairly obvious that
Judith is using the David and Goliath story as a way to think about Judith and threats from foreign
armies. And so that's the interpretability is David and Goliath is a famous story about
resisting foreign invasion and foreign influence. And the Judith narrative uses it as a model for
that exact same purpose. It was probably written at the time where, I believe it's the So-Yukids were
threatening the Maccabees. And so, man, I'm out of my, a little bit out of my, I didn't review it
ahead of time, unfortunately. But it seems to be used as a model for that situation where they're
facing foreign invasion, the threat of foreign invasion, the threat of foreign rule. And so it's
a way of thinking about resistance. It's a model that was ready at hand. So the other example is
from Joseph and Asinith, which is again entirely fictional, but based on the life of Joseph in
the book of Genesis. So it takes that detail that Joseph was married to an Egyptian named Asinith
and sort of expands that probably motivated by questions of, well, wait a minute. I didn't know
we were allowed to intermarry here. And so explains why it was appropriate for Joseph to marry an
Egyptian woman. And that's the first 21 chapters of, I think, 27. So most of it is about Joseph
and Asinith, their romance and how it becomes appropriate for them to be married. But my interest
is actually in the second half, which is like the last third, chapter 22 to 27, which is about
a battle between, well, it culminates in a battle between the son of Pharaoh and Benjamin,
Joseph's brother. So again, this is the Genesis, these are Genesis characters. And Benjamin goes
to the Wadi, takes some smooth stones, slings one at the son of Pharaoh's head, and it knocks him down
almost dead. And then he goes around slinging rocks at all the different soldiers that were with him.
There's very much David and Goliath. But then they think he's dead, but then the son of Pharaoh
gets up and Benjamin goes to finish him off and he took his sword. And again, the words that he
took his sword is identical with this with the Septuagint of David taking Goliath's sword.
And he was going to finish him off, but Levi talks him out of it, though the son of Pharaoh
ended up dying anyway. And so there's a lot there in terms of Benjamin being called a young man,
a young boy, just like David is called a young boy over and over again. So there's a lot in there
that connects the story with David and Goliath. But what's really interesting to me at least is that
in this instance, you have a story being used counter-intuitively. So Judith uses it in the
way that you'd expect as a story reinforcing these boundaries between Israelites and others,
between Jews and non-Jews. But the author of Joseph and Asinith, remember this is a story about
Asinith converting to Judaism. And the son of Pharaoh wants to abduct Asinith, like he's
in Egyptian, she's in Egyptian. And so the story uses the David and Goliath paradigm against
breaking up this intermarriage. It would make sense. It would be intuitive at least if they
use the David and Goliath narrative as a template for breaking up an inter-ethnic marriage.
But it's the opposite. It uses a story that's about the boundaries
toward the end of breaking down the boundaries in some cases at least.
Do we have a dating on that? Because that...
Well, it's contested. It's contested. I place it around more or less the time of Judith. So about
100 BCE. Some people argue it's later. And some even argue that it's Christian as opposed to Jewish.
I only ask because Jewish or Christian, it doesn't matter. To me, both groups,
well, especially Christians, they've opened that door in intermarriage and things like that.
As far as if you were to put this tribe or whatever, because the Jews saw themselves as an ethnic
somewhat genealogical model fits while they've opened their doors open to others as well.
But I'm reading a book right now. Where did I have it?
Jews and the Roman rivals. In there, she shows all the Jewish literature about
how Jews were starting to open up their doors and if you married a non-Jew and things like that.
So it seems like right around this time that you're describing, it's possible that this
another narrative is spinning into the current issues of how, no, stop telling us we can't marry.
This isn't Esra Nehemiah. This is like a whole new age, you know?
Right. Yeah, well, that's right. This is just one voice among many. There's a spectrum of beliefs
among Jews. I refer to the earliest Christians as just Jews, like Christ following Jews, Jesus
following Jews. So they fit on that spectrum of attitudes toward the incorporation of Gentiles.
It wasn't a new innovation of Christians. There are examples. There are precedents
from centuries before. Even prophets talk about, sometimes apocalyptically, that in the future
Gentiles being brought in. So it's not a foreign concept to Jews, but it was very much contested
how many Gentiles, under what circumstances Gentiles, what would be required of the Gentiles.
So it's a very multifaceted issue. And yeah, you can't look at one text and say,
this is the Jewish view on the incorporation of Gentiles. It's way more complicated and
variable than that. So we didn't talk about, we talked about the monopoly with Judah,
but there are others we could talk about as well. So what I'm working on in the article
is looking at the possibility that Judith, when she beheads,
holophonies, is imitating, to a certain extent, or at least evoking the world of the Odyssey.
So one of the most famous episodes from the Odyssey is his time with Polyphemus, the Cyclops.
So he and his companions get stuck in a cave with the big Cyclops who rolls the door shut
with his boulder. So they're stuck. They can't move the boulder, and he starts eating them.
So in order to get out, Odysseus gives him this wine he had received from a god and gets him drunk,
and then they fashion a steak and drive it into his eye. Then he moves the boulder,
and Odysseus and his men hide underneath the sheep and escape because he's feeling the sheep,
he's blinded, he's feeling the tops of the sheep, but they're hanging on underneath to get out.
And so the resonance of that with the Judith episode is not only the drunkenness precipitating
the attack, but there are also sheepskins mentioned lying on the floor of the room.
But I guess those are the main things that unite the two stories.
Wow, so even in those literary texts that aren't in our Bible, we can see imitation
potentially not only from Jewish literature, the Bible, but also non-biblical literature,
like what you're describing here. So this is fascinating.
And it makes sense. It makes sense because if memory serves, Odysseus is telling the story
to the Fayokians. If memory serves, I need to double check this before I submit to the publisher.
The Fayokians in the Odyssey, it mentions that they are often threatened by the Cyclopes,
the plural of Cyclops. And so you have here Odysseus battling with one of the Cyclopes,
one of the Cyclopes, who represent this foreign threat. And so in that sense, it would make sense
for Judith to imitate Odysseus in this situation, the Cyclopes representing a foreign threat to the
Fayokians, the Assyrians representing a foreign threat to the Israelites. And so I mean, that's
really the theme of almost every model I've seen. Even in the New Testament, with the pigs,
I mean, in the legion, that would be a foreign threat. They would be the Romans. So it's obvious
there's a potential continuation in this vein. Yeah, I think you're right. You're referring to
what the work Dennis has done with Mark, with a garrison de Moniac. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I jumped
right there. It's fine. I followed you. I wanted to make sure everybody else did. Yeah. But so
let's, you know, one more thing with Joseph and Asinet. So we talked about its use of David and
Goliath, and it obviously uses the story of Dinah and Chechem, but I won't get into that.
One other thing that I argue in my article is that it uses the Helen story from Greek mythology.
So I don't point to a specific text that tells it. I just say it's referring to the mythological
story that was well known about Helen. So Helen is the reputed to be the most beautiful woman in the
world. And when it comes time for her to be married, a lot of suitors come to court her.
And she has to decide among them. But there's quarreling among the suitors because she's so
beautiful. And so Odysseus, who is there, comes up with the scheme with Helen's father, that all
the suitors should agree to honor the selection of the husband for Helen,
forming a pact that if anybody violates the marriage that ensues, they would all come together
and go to war against that person. And then that's what ends up happening is later,
Paris visits Helen with Menelaus, who was her husband, and takes her back to Troy.
And then that evokes the pact among the suitors. And that's how you get the Trojan War. So all
that is sort of the foundational story that underlies why we had the Trojan War to begin with.
At the beginning of Joseph and Asinith, you have a very similar setup. So Asinith is very beautiful.
There are suitors who want to marry her. But there's one in particular who doesn't come,
is the son of Pharaoh. He's not allowed by his father because of a class issue. She's too low
for him, according to his father. So just like Paris doesn't go to, he's not one of the suitors
for Helen. The son of Pharaoh is not one of the suitors for Asinith. And then later it's, so already
reading Joseph and Asinith can maybe expect, oh, maybe the son of Pharaoh is going to play the
role of Paris and try to abduct Asinith. And then a battle will ensue. And that is, in fact, what
happens. The son of Pharaoh schemes a plot to abduct Asinith, and then a battle ensues. That
ends in his own death. Wow. With a stone hitting him in the head. That's right. Yeah,
which I don't think is the same with Paris. Right, right. It's interwoven. Exactly eclectic
mimicism. Like you talk about some form of eclectic literary, what do you call this,
pretty much, mimicism. But there's also imitation. So it could be either one.
Let me ask you this. As we're exiting out of this interview, I really hope people get interested
and want to dig deeper into these models that you're describing. What do you hope to change?
Like, what are your goals with this? You know, I don't know that I have an agenda
beyond, I just find it really interesting and compelling. Right. I think it's just a lot of fun.
Like, I don't know what other scholars do, what motivates them to write what they write.
But for me, I just find it really interesting. And it's actually a source of joy and
fulfillment to work on it. So I'll take the bait, though. What I'd like to see happen is
maybe a bit blurring the boundaries between Greco-Roman and Jewish or Jewish and Christian
or Christian in antiquity, especially. Because these writings written in Greek for them,
for the ones I'm thinking about at least, are products of ancient Mediterranean literary
production. And we shouldn't think they're exceptional unless there's evidence supporting
that the exception, right? You shouldn't a priori say these are exceptional because they're in the
Bible. Well, support that with a justification of some kind. And I think there isn't in this case.
So it's a lot of Christian narratives, Jewish narratives. They do, they're exceptional in
that they imitate the Jewish scriptures. Sure, you're not going to find a Greek writer doing
that with the maybe exception of Lucian, who may, you may do that in the second century,
but that's contested. Generally not. So that's an exception, like it's Jewish and Christian
writers imitating the Jewish, but they're also imitating and referring to Greek mythology and
classical Greek literary models. It's not really, it's not crazy. Like the book I've been reading,
I mentioned with Katel, she's not only talking about, well, she's talking about a totally
different thing. She's talking about laws. And, and, you know, when you start looking at the
Tiszafta and the mission and the Talmud and all these, you see laws that the Jews have that
sometimes actually go against the biblical law, but Jews take a position because during their time
in pagan Rome and then Christian Rome had influence. So usually the influence is by the
bigger, bigger dog. Usually. Usually. I'm not going to say like you said Lucian, who knows,
maybe he's catching on, but- Well, he was in Samaria. So he, so the Christians would have been
his neighbors. Yeah, so that makes sense. He talks about Christians. So he knows that they exist,
at least. Yes. I just want people to like think about that. No, that's a good point. I just
wanted them to think about like, why didn't they copy the Jews? That's a one-way street.
It's kind of like you have a, you have a much, the major impact was from the people ruling.
And I'm not saying that they didn't have any impact. It didn't go both ways either. It could have.
Yeah, not as much. Right. They're all writing in Greek, for the most part. The
writings we're talking about are written in Greek. They're not in Hebrew. And so already you're
adopting the language of, of the imperial power. So it's reasonable to, to look to see how far
that goes. And not to ahead of time, you know, foreclose the possibility of, of influence of
Homer. Right. Everything needs to be made by an argument. You shouldn't just accept it. But
arguments can be made. Yeah. So your academia page is where people can go and check out some of
your articles. Are you writing a book or? Yeah. One size. So in a few weeks, I'll land in the
Netherlands. And so that's a, for a fellowship that I applied for that entails writing a book.
So I'm going to do my best, the best I can to write it. So that's, that'll be on,
it's a book I've been sort of dancing around the last few years. But we'll actually now sit down
and, and work on it. So it's actually relevant to what we talked about. It's, it's going to be about
Gentile incorporation in the book of acts and the way the book of acts uses literary models
in different ways in relation to that thing. So as a way to explain it, you know, why this is
acceptable. And then as a way to sort of polemicize against opposition, so to, to stigmatize opponents
of it within the narrative, and then to further justify those who, who are proclaiming the, the
rightness, the correctness of, of incorporating Gentiles. I can't wait to read that. I have,
I have a shtick right now for how that happened in history. In reality, which these texts are,
like I said, verisimilitude. There's some reality here, whether you accept that this is actually
history written here. The reality is somehow the incorporation of Gentiles, and what we like to
call proselyting into the Christian faith. Some people don't call it conversion, you know, Paula
Fredrickson, other people, et cetera. It's just an interesting thing to consider. But there's some
truth to this. And is this a narrative, a story kind of trying to paint that picture in a fantastic
way for people to go, Whoa, okay, yeah, they are, they do belong. And you know what, they're the
ones who, who rejected what they were supposed to have. Or like, you know, there's a lot of
interesting things, pervos, commentary on acts comes to mind. At the end, he says something like,
Paul was once a Jew. Like it goes so far and acts that it's almost like Paul starting to kind of
like distance himself in, according to the ax author, you know what I mean? He's kind of
not saying Paul did himself. But you know, right, right, right. Yeah, I'm not sure I go with, I would
go with pervo on that. But that's, but yeah, no, it's, it's interesting. And I do think, I do think
there is obviously an amount of persuasion involved in these narratives. So it's, it's, it's speaking
to a sensibility that already exists. But sometimes presenting things in a way that, that may work to
persuade others of that sensibility. Are you going to be publishing under, do you know if you're
going to be using Dennis's new publishing company to? Oh, that I don't know. I am on the advisory
board. But I haven't gotten a lot of details about that yet. Keep me in the loop, my friend.
Thank you. Any final words to our audience?
No, everybody be safe. Be safe. Ladies and gentlemen, check out the description. Go check out
his article, Better Call Paul Saul. Wonderful, wonderful arguments he made. Really blew my
mind when I read it and then we did an episode on that before. So go check out our previous
episode and never forget, we are meth-fissioned.
Ladies and gentlemen, join the
Patreon, not only to support us, but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis on McDonald
and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon, early access. You guys can ask personal questions when
I go to interview these scholars and you're helping meth-fissioned grow.
Thank you.
