Ladies and gentlemen, Myth, Vision, Podcast, Eric Leonard. I'm your host, you know, blaspheming
of the Holy Spirit, right? The unforgivable sin. Well, my book, it would be unforgivable
of me to not inform you about the upcoming Paul conference, the NINT 2024 conference
hosted or held by Bart Ehrman, who will also be giving a lecture. James Tabor on the Apostle
Paul and let me tell you that guy knows some things about the Apostle Paul. He's given
a lecture on Paul's big idea. Robin Faith Walsh is Paul's philosopher. Paula Fredrickson,
Paul and the pagan gods. Come on, baby. It'd be unforgivable of me to not inform you about
this conference. So the link should be on the screen. Pin comment in the description. Sign
up. It helps Myth, Vision, Podcast. It helps the academics and it also helps bring your
education further. Ideas I want to cover on Paul. I think he's such a pivotal instrument
in the early Christian movement and what kind of catapults this thing further. So I like
to understand Paul and I hope you do too. But listen, while I hope you sign up and everything,
let me inform you where we're at, what's going on. I've been staying at my sister's house.
She's got a wonderful home we've been staying at for the past few days. And since our lease
has ended with our rental property, we are about to make a 42 hour drive. It takes 42
hours of driving to get to where we're going in Florida. We're moving to the side because
my wife's family is closer. We want to be practically half off California, you know,
beaches, Disney World universe. So lots of stuff to do because we're practically in the
desert where we're at located in Washington. And I know this trip. I've done this quite a few
times. And every time it's a lot of work. It's a lot of stress. It's a lot of work. Wish me luck.
I hope that we get there in one piece. I'm pulling a trailer. My brother's driving our U-Haul. And
I am fingers crossed, you know, hoping we get there. I'll listen to a lot of audiobooks. You
know, moving is also expensive. So everybody just keep in mind signing up for MVP courses,
subscribing to our Patreon or membership programs, one time donations, there's all sorts of options,
super things. Thank you. If you're able and helping, it means a ton. I cannot tell you how much
this is made in this vision possible over the years. And again, I understand if that's not a
thing that you can do or can afford it or you just not doing it. I understand that. I want to
thank everyone who has and in other ways, people who can't afford to help us out or sign up for
courses and stuff, the likes, the shares, the comments, the subscriptions, all of that goes a
long way. The algorithm actually, you know, you get paid monetization from YouTube. That adds up
and helps make myth vision keep ticking. I have some big plans. I have a lot more work I want to do.
I'm trying to get more of these courses with academics to have you be a direct student. So
you don't have to sign up to Harvard or Yale or Oxford or Princeton or whatever in order to take a
course by an academic who can be a personal scholar, a personal teacher of your own. That's
what I want. I want everybody to know this material. And so wish us luck. Wish me luck. I hope we get
there safely. And I hit the ground running when I get to Florida, where I'm going to be located.
And we've got some documentaries in the works. Moses, you won't want to miss courses coming out.
We've got one with James Tabor on the Apostle Paul as well. There's just a lot of stuff on the
horizon that we're about to do. And thank you for being there. Thank you for the love and support
comments. You name it. It means a ton to me. So sign up for the NINT conference. I hope you will.
It's going to be a big deal. Some big names. I'm going to be interviewing some of these academics
again and going deeper. I like to dive into this. I want to understand the origins of this enigmatic
religion that has really made a ripple effect in the world we live in today. So how did it begin?
And what is the case? What is the real truth, right? As you know, I'm a skeptic, but I love to
dive into these things. I love y'all. And thank you again. I really mean that from the bottom of
heart to everybody who's helped make this possible. I never thought that this hobby,
which was just a side hobby I loved to do, would blow up and be what it is today.
Thanks a lot. Never forget, we are MythVision.
