Ladies and gentlemen, Dennis R. McDonald has been ignored enough. Dr. McDonald has talked
to me privately when I was there in California with him and Dr. Richard Carrier about these
topics and a lot of the scholars out there that even don't accept his materials, his
ideas still say, well, we don't believe it's mimesis, but sure, it may have influence because
the culture around them in the Greco-Roman world had the Greek epics, the Iliad, the
Odyssey, there were plays about these things, the Aeneid, Euripides, the Bacchae, with Dionysus,
et cetera. Now ask yourself this question. It's in the air and the authors knew Greek,
which was the learning process in which they'd learned Greek, knowing the Iliad and the Odyssey.
These were things they had to know. This is how they learned to learn Greek. Now why aren't
there any commentaries out there that specifically deal with the Perikippes and show and say,
this has its parallels over here in the Greek epics? No, they only go to the Hebrew Bible.
So what you're going to find in this video, you're not going to find anywhere else.
Ladies and gentlemen, real quick as an introduction, many scholars have stopped, neglected, rejected,
refused to even consider Dennis McDonald's work. So today I have Dr. McDonald taking
us into an example that is almost so obvious that cognitive dissonance is the only thing
you could do to say why they reject. To get out of it, yeah. To get out of this. We have
Dr. Richard Carrier joining us, of course. Dr. Carrier, he's mentioned and even defends
a lot of Dennis's ideas. He doesn't obviously conclude everything. But in so many ways,
when a scholar says, oh, Dennis McDonald, you might want to rethink that and consider
what we do today. I want to take the example of the famous
story of Jesus being anointed for his embalming before his death in the Gospel of Mark and
in other synopsis and also in, it's also has a version in the Gospel of John. I'm reading
from the synopsis that I have of the Gospels, a memetic synopsis which includes parallels
to classical Greek poetry and to the Bible, the Septuagint as well. So my colleagues and
I are going to be reading from the text and then along the way we're going to talk about
them. And I think there really can't be any doubt that this text is memetic of Homer.
That doesn't mean that it justifies all the memesis that I propose. But in this case,
I think it's inescapable. And by the way, we're going to see that it was recognized
by ancient readers. So this reading is congenial to the reading of the Gospels in Byzantium.
So here we go. The woman who anoints Jesus for his burial in Mark surely imitates the
famous Homeric niptra or washing by Euryclea Odysseus' nurse, who recognized the scar on
his thigh while washing his feet in Odyssey 19. Here are the most relevant lines where
Penelope speaks to Euryclea about the renown that comes to those who show hospitality.
Now I'm going to read a footnote that's here because it really is important.
I was just going to ask you to do that. Yeah, right. That's really crucial.
Well, in fact, why don't you read the footnote beginning with Euryclea's recognition?
Yeah. Euryclea's recognition generated many literary imitations, especially in Greek
tragedy, where one character recognizes another by a distinctive token, which is the second
criterion in this case. Examples appear in Escalus' Koifari, Eurypides'
Sophocles' Electra, in Achilles' Tatius' Leucapa and Clytophoron, Longus' Daphnis'
and Chloe, and Heliodorus' Ethiopica, all novels. These are all religious novels.
Where both tragedy, or there's both tragedies and religious novels, where the hero identified
himself by, quote unquote, a scar on his knee and he got a hunt, that he got hunting a bore.
And the Testament of Abraham even. So here we have an example of an imitation in Jewish
literature, presents a superb example of imitation of Odyssey 19 by a Jewish author. So, yeah.
And proof of concept. I give those parallels in other books. But here is my translation
of some relevant lines from Odyssey 19, and Derek is going to read it, and he doesn't
need to read the Greek. So go ahead, Derek. If one is noble and of noble heart, strangers
carry one's fame far and wide. To all peoples, many speak of one's excellence. Then prudent
Penelope said to him again, Dear stranger, never before has a man so prudent of dear
strangers from afar come here to my house. So thoughtfully prudent as you are in everything
that you say. I have an old woman with a wise heart in her breast, who nursed well and cherished
that unlucky man. Wise Eurycleia arise now and come, bade this man who is the same age
as your Lord. And the old woman took the gleaming basin to wash his feet and poured into it
lots of cold water and then drew the hot. But Odysseus sat at the fireplace. So she approached
and began to wash her Lord. Immediately she recognized the scar that a bore long ago had
gouged with a white tusk. After touching Odysseus' beard, she said, You most surely are Odysseus,
dear child. I did not recognize you before, not until I touched the whole body of my Lord.
Later she anointed him richly with oil. Now the recognition of Odysseus by his scar is
also the model for the recognition of the risen Jesus by his wounds in the Gospel of
Luke and then more extravagantly in the Gospel of John with the Doubting Thomas episode.
Now the phrase, Strangers carry one's fame far and wide is these two words, kleas uru,
far and wide fame. And we're going to talk about that as an important intertextual clue
that Mark is dropping. By the way, Mark is not trying to disguise his imitation. He's
advertising his imitation and wants to show that the episode about Jesus is actually superior
to the one in Homer. This is not plagiarism. It's emulation. It's rivalry with Homer. And
my work often is mistaken to be plagiaristic. And I'm not accusing these authors of plagiarism.
I understand what they're doing as art. Any comment to that?
No, spot on. And anybody who's us classes, people who've been in classics in ancient
history know this. This is common. This is the whole literary milieu in which this stuff
was created. Everybody was doing this. Everybody accepted it. Everybody admired it as a process.
And in fact, we're specifically taught it. This is the skill you are specifically taught
to do. And so far, therefore, all the authors of the Gospels would have been taught this
and encouraged to do it. It's the normal way of doing things, especially constructing
myths of any kind like this. So there's nothing spontaneously odd or ad hoc about what you're
proposing. What you're proposing is that the Gospel authors acted like anyone else who
was educated in Greek literature.
If I may add, just to say it in the most basic terms, to not do this is to not create epic
narrative to be the best. I mean, that's the whole point.
And also, if you were to create something pseudo-generous, you lose all the richness
of communication that you would have had with emulation, so the point that may you need
to emulate in order to comment. That's all of the Gospels are doing is they're emulating
and what they change is the thing I think people forget. The changes, because they often
say, oh, but look at the differences. Yeah, look at the differences. The differences are
the point. So the similarities, the emulation is what's to key the reader, or at least the
deep reading reader who notices, to key the reader and to know what's being compared. And
then the changes are the point. They're the message.
That's exactly right.
That's how this technique is used as a method of communication. It is a language, if you
think of it in those terms. And to emphasize again, like this is a language that was being
used by everybody at the time. It was well known and it was admired. So for them to
do it is actually exactly what you would expect.
There are characters in Odyssey 19 who are not happy about the reception of Odysseus
the beggar and somebody washing his feet. And there's a slave woman named Melantho, a female
slave. She earlier complained about Penelope's generosity to Odysseus the beggar. The hero
then rebuked her for discrimination against the poor. And Penelope accused her of having
committed a monstrous act of hospitality. The Greek phrases will be important when we
look at the Gospel of Mark.
As Mark Jesus was eating, a woman carrying an expensive stone jar broke it and poured
a precious ointment over his head and down his body. Apparently she had recognized what
the disciples had not. Namely, that soon he would die and his body would need anointing
for burial. The twelve scolded her for not carrying instead for the poor. This is the
same word that's used in the Odyssey for Melantho, the rebuke of Melantho for not carrying for
the poor. But Jesus insisted that she committed a beautiful act, a Kallan Ergon, whereas in
the Odyssey Penelope says Melantho has created a mega Ergon that is an outrageous act. Same
word for the act in Greek.
I want to emphasize that. So remind people of that Greek point again, because I want
people to not miss that. The fact that the same Greek is being used is really crucial
to this.
Okay, Odysseus in disguise as a beggar accuses Melantho of not carrying for the ptochoi.
And you have the same issue about the poor with the same word ptochis. And also Penelope
accuses Melantho of doing a mega Ergon that is not outrageous or a great act. And we have
Jesus saying that the woman who anointed him did a Kallan Ergon, a good act as opposed
to a bad act.
This is crucial, the Greek lining up with the concept of what's being done to the story.
This is one of many pieces of this that actually indicate that the emulation is what's happening
here.
And it's not just emulation, it's advertised emulation. Mark is not disguising his use
of Homer. And actually these parallels continue. The name Eurycleia means far-fung fame. And
Homer puned on it in Penelope's statement to her in Odyssey 19, if one is noble and
of noble heart, strangers carry one's fame far and wide, kleos eru, reversing the words
of Uru kleos, to all peoples and speak of one's excellent. Luke freely redacted Mark's
account at the beginning of his transformation of the pericope peccatora that we had talked
about before. Now I'm going to ask Derrick to read on page 206 the entire story in Mark
from Mark 14, 3 to 9. You can make your own judgment about the parallels. So go ahead.
And while he was in Bethany at the house of Simon the Lepper, and as he was reclining
at dinner, a woman entered, who brought an alabaster jar of very costly ointment of pure
nard. She broke the alabaster jar, and poured the ointment down over his head. But some
people expressed with each other their indignation. Why this waste of ointment, this ointment
could have been sold for more than 300 denarii, and donated to the poor. It goes off to the
next page. And that word, to poor, is the same word used in the Odyssey, the Ptochoi.
And they scolded her harshly. Mark, but Jesus said, Let her be. Why do you trouble her?
She has performed a beautiful act on my behalf, for you always have the poor with you. And
when you wish, you can do good for them. But you do not always have me. She offered what
she had. She anticipated the anointing of my body for burial. And I tell you truly,
wherever the good news is proclaimed throughout the whole world, or through the world, what
this woman has done also will be spoken of. That is, she will have Euroclea. She will
have renown far and wide. And the reader expects, this is a flag to Euroclea, that this woman
is doing a generous act that will be remembered everywhere, just as Euroclea's generosity
would be proclaimed throughout the Greek world. Any comments?
No, I think it's beautiful. I just think that that right there alone, the name means the
very phrase in which Jesus is using, is a huge red flag on top, everything carrier and
it's worth showing people. I'm going to show people this. So you have the synopsis. I don't
know if this will show up on video, but you can at least see the structure of the page.
But he's got all of the Homeric verses, so you can actually go and check complete with
and then when we have the comparisons here, the synoptics, we have again all of the passages
that you would need from Homer to actually see the parallels and figure it out.
In fact, it's right that those things in the footnote come from Homer, but they actually come
from a Byzantine retelling of the story. Oh yes, this is a good one, the bottom footnote stuff.
So you have the Homer passages here, but down here in the footnote we've got the Homeric
Antones. And these are poems, there are five large poems done over a period of about half a millennium
actually. Beginning in the fourth century, the first poet actually was a woman, Evedosia,
the wife of Theodosius II. These texts have never been exhaustively translated in any modern
language. And we've had a critical edition of them only in the last 15 years or so. And you will
not find what we're going to read right now in any commentary or discussion of this text.
And I think it shows clearly that these authors saw in this story echoes of the story of Odysseus,
and they did not shy away from identifying those similarities and using the Homeric lines that
inspired Mark to retell the Markian story. So Homer is both earlier than Mark and later than Mark
when the Byzantine authors retell the story. It's really quite an amazing phenomenon.
And it's another proof of concept. Like they saw this. So one of the criticisms of your work is
like, well, I didn't, they see it. Well, here they did. Do you want us to read that? Yes, we do.
And in fact, I'll read the things that are not Homeric. And I'm going to invite Richard to read
the things that are in footnote 32. The following lines from recension one of the Homeric Antones
retell Jesus anointing and retain the pun on the name Eurycleia. I would not.
Oh, you want to go there? Okay. So this is from the Kentus. I would not object to a woman like
this touching my feet. That's right from Odyssey. Woman, no mortal on the boundless earth would
reprove you for your renown extends to the far off. Klaus, you're on. Yep. To the far off sky.
Like that of a faultless king, who God fearing rules over many valiant men,
maintaining justice and the black earth brings him as snow melted on the high mountains,
snow that the Uros thawed when the Zephras poured over it. Let me read the transition.
Here are some more imitations of the Niptra in recension one. And they describe the grieving
mother of Jesus, the Theotokos. Ah, I see. Yeah. As this is again, these are lines from Homer,
ultimately. As snow melted on the high mountains, snow that the Uros thawed when the Zephras poured
over it. And as it melts the flowing rivers bulge, so her beautiful cheeks melted as she wept.
So just as Penelope weeps for her husband, the Theotokos weeps for her dead child.
To comfort Mary, a divine voice came here. By the way, all of these lines come from the Niptra,
that is Odyssey 19. And I've identified them by specific lines. Some of the lines are identical.
Some of them are modestly changed because of the environment. To comfort Mary, a divine voice came
to her with comforting words drawn especially from Odysseus's transfiguration to Telemachus
and his prediction to Penelope in the Niptra. And I will tell you another thing and place it in your
heart. Your child is safe and will come very soon. Such a son as anyone might desire to have.
Not for long will he be far from his loved ones in homeland. Surely all these things will come to
pass just as I say. You will see him. For I suppose that you will not stop weeping, groaning,
and tearful lamenting until you lay your eyes on him. But I will give you this command. For now,
go to your home at daybreak and speak with the mighty suitors, the 11 disciples in this case,
obviously. Yeah, I think that's enough, honestly, just for time. I'm sorry to interrupt you.
But in the same footnote, Richard, toward the end, at the end of the chapter of Resension 2,
after the healing where the mark and story has the woman serve a meal, the poem strings together
from Odyssey 11, 14 Homeric lines of the 16, often in the same sequence. So all of the following
lines, Richard's going to read, come from Odyssey 19. Several of them appear in exactly the same
sequence. And it's used for the retelling of the story that we have in Mark. So, for quickly mortals.
For quickly mortals grow old because of hardship. I'm here referring to Eurycleia.
Thus the wise mother of Peter answered him, Dear stranger, never before has a man so prudent of
dear strangers from afar come here to my house. So thoughtfully prudent as you are in everything
that you say, while I am an old woman, a good caregiver, I will wash your feet though I am frail.
And that's originally from a Penelope line. But here it's the mother of Peter.
Jesus responds, Washings of feet do not please my heart, and no woman shall touch my feet.
For many nights on a wretched bed I have slept and waited for the bright-throined dawn.
Unless there is an old woman, a good caregiver, who has suffered
in her breast as much as I, I would not object to a woman like this touching my feet.
I don't know how one can deny mimesis in this example. And to deny mimesis is to say that the
Byzantine authors were smoking dope. But we have verbal similarities that are significant.
After all, the difference is Odysseus comes back, never having died. And the point in the story
in Mark is Jesus is going to die after his death and be triumphant. And the Eurycleia recognizes
that she has spiritual perception in a way that the disciples don't. They want to send,
give the money to the poor, which is virtuous, obviously. But you don't always have Jesus.
And so this, you also have a rebuke and so on. I mean, the parallels are just so striking that,
now this is the, if you will, the camel's nose under the tent. And it's not going to be long
before the whole camel is under the tent. If one can grant such advertised mimesis in this case
at a crucial point in the Christian narrative, you've got to be open to seeing such mimesis elsewhere.
Yeah. And it's worth reemphasizing for people who might not have caught it that
they actually were able to completely retell the entire gospel using nothing but lines from Homer.
So what is the probability that you could do that unless the original gospels were already doing
that, essentially? And what they do here, of course, is they're doing it much more literally,
they're much more directly, they're taking actual lines, whole lines from Homer, slight
modifications here and there. But it's clear what they're doing is they're going, oh,
that's that will do this, that will do this, that will do this, and it all falls together,
which would not probably be possible had Mark, for example, not already built all these narratives
out of Homeric passages. And you have analogous imitations in Greek tragedy, in Greek novels,
and in a Jewish novel. So what Mark is doing here is a part of a literary tradition that is spread
throughout the culture that Mark is living in. Yep. Prior probability is high. That's how you do it.
Background evidence establishes the higher prior and makes the theory easy to demonstrate.
Derek, what do you think? I love it. I mean, at the end of the day,
like you've done in your books, and I always recommend people, you go through this chart,
which I don't see it here. But it might be here where you you literally are giving,
okay, rebuke, rebuke, woman named you, you know, far and wide, far and wide, like you do this thing
and you're like, you're trying to give them the training wills to say, here, let me show you like
it's in your face. Once you see it, you can't unsee it. How much time do we have on the recording
on this one? Yeah, time. This is a perfect segue. We should throw this in here. So,
and I made this point before in previous videos we've done, but so here's the thing. So like the
critics of Dennis's theory will say, no, no, no, no, not possible. I would never do this.
But they don't say that when the same thing is being done with the Septuagint, right? They're
all like, oh, yeah, yeah, absolutely, emulation and mimesis is happening with the with the Septuagint.
And in my book, in On the Historicity of Jesus, I actually give an example. I have a whole section
here on the work of Thomas Brody, who showed that the Gospel of Luke does this same thing
we're talking about Mark doing with Homer. And Luke also uses Homer. But also what he's doing
and also what Mark does is he's doing the exact same thing, using the exact same art, the exact
same technique, but using the scriptures as his base text instead of Homer. And Brody showed that
there's Luke is just littered. It's almost like the design, one of the main goals of Luke is to
remind the king's literature for the Elisha and Elijah narratives and construct stories about Jesus
in which he plops Jesus into their position, and then updates it to the current context and
then make some changes that represent how he wants Jesus to appear better and superior to Elijah
and Elisha. And you can go through the Brody has a whole section on I cited in here where he goes
does the kind of the same thing that we're seeing here, where he shows passage by passage by passage
every single thing. I mean, I've got listed here 12345678910. Just as examples, I have a list of
10 passages, whole stories and Luke that Luke has constructed reconstructed through Memesis
of the king's literature. And again, this is this isn't something I found. This is Brody's
published this under page 475 in your book for anybody. Yeah, 475 and 476. But I want to get
there's an example, because the example, it's exactly the same things that you're talking about.
So, you know, we have the I'm going to read the king side, and then there's the Luke side.
So Kings, it starts with it happened after this. And on the Luke side, it happens afterwards.
King side, it says at the gate of Sarepta, Elijah meets a widow. Luke at the gate of nine, Jesus
meets a widow. Kings, another widow's son was dead. Luke, this widow's son was dead. Kings, that
widow expresses a sense of her unworthiness on account of sin. Luke, a centurion whose boy,
Jesus had just saved from death, had just expressed a sense of his unworthiness on account of sin.
Kings, Elijah compassionately bears her son up the stairs and asks the Lord,
why he was allowed to die. Luke, the Lord feels compassion for her and touches her son's buyer,
and the bearers stand still. Kings, Elijah prays to the Lord for the son's return to life. Luke,
the Lord commands the boy to rise. Elijah, the boy comes to life and cries out. Luke,
and he who was dead sat up and began to speak. Kings, and he gave him to his mother, literally the
Greek, Kai Edoken autante metri autu, and in Luke, and he gave him to his mother, Kai Edoken
autante metri autu. It's the same Greek, literal word for word. And then Kings, the widow recognizes
Elijah is a man of God and that the word he speaks is the truth. Luke, the people recognize Jesus
as a great prophet of God and the word of this truth spreads everywhere. And every book he has,
the Dionysian gospel, when you're getting into Luke and Virgil, the mythologizing Jesus, which
was the beginner's guide to selling me on you, I mean, following the gospel of Dennis on this
thing. And I was blown away at just how basic, like you just did here, and you want this, and it
started painting a picture, I started to believe. But then all of these scholars started making me
doubt. And now I've came back to my Lord. You know, but these, this parallel is absolutely
essential to understanding the methodology of mimesis and readership. And it has one additional
item that it doesn't appear in the parallels, that is, Jesus can he can raise the boy back to life
better than Elijah can. Because he can do it himself. Elijah has to pray and ask the
right. And also, like, Elijah is kind of a jerk about with her about this, whereas Jesus is much
more passionate. So they're fixing the story. Like, there's something kind of a little bit
embarrassing about the Elijah story, like he's kind of a dick. And he's weaker. It's a messier
story. It doesn't contain the values they want. So they've cleaned that up. They've updated it,
made Jesus a better Elijah. So that now they have a hero model that they can pray. So they don't
have to rely on the Elijah. I want to make one comment about modern literary criticism. And
we can talk about mimesis and antiquity, perhaps at a different time. Literary critics sometimes
talk about a reader's munda significans, or the plural would be the significantes. That is,
we all, when we read, have cultural contexts or worlds that we bring to the text. And so we
read it in the context of our world. But the world of antiquity is different from our world.
It has a different munda significans. And to what we're doing is trying to embed these narratives
in its native environment and not to import the text directly into our own world and its
signification, but to interpret it in light of the signification of antiquity and read it alongside
of and not as well as the ancients. So the idea that the New Testament was written for people
in the United States who speak English in the 21st century is simply not only anachronistic,
it's just stupid. And we have to understand that these people read these texts over against the
cultural monuments of their ancestry, that is, the biblical traditions of Jews and the
the poetic traditions of Greeks, which were the monuments of ancient religion. And our ignorance,
especially of the Greek side, has diminished and really crippled Gospel studies.
Yeah. And so the case in point, so it's mainstream, the King's emulation in Luke. It's pretty much
everybody accepts that that's happening. And it's by the same evidence, repetition of the same
Greek words, repetition of the same order of events, repetition of the same meaning and
interpretation of events, details, even if they're not verbatim, they're described basically the same
things are happening. And so if you can show that and accept that for Kings, Luke is using Kings,
for example. And then here, here, Dennis can show that the exact same techniques, exact same
vocabulary for the exact same meaning, the exact same order of events, exact same sense of events,
sometimes things will be flipped, like in the case of Luke, or in the sometimes where Luke will
flip the gender from something from Kings, right? So, or in the case it'll be, you've done a monstrous
thing will become you've done a beautiful thing. So there'll be flips, but they'll still be exact
flips. So that's like improbable by itself. And the flip, of course, is usually the meaning of
like something that they want to do to improve the text. So if that is accepted and is for the way
that Luke is using the septrogen, and he has the exact same evidence for Mark, for example, using
Homer, and it's it lines up the same way, it's the same technique, it's the exact same thing.
There's no reason to really reject it that other than you're just insistence that there's no way
Mark would use Homer for this, but obviously Mark would use Homer for this because he's writing Greek
to readers of Greek. He's educated on Homer, as all Greek literate persons were. So, and he wants
to hit both audiences, he wants to hit the Jewish audiences, but he also wants to hit the Gentile
audiences, what's going to appeal to them? Like the septrogen is clever, the way he uses the
septrogen is clever and useful, but a lot of his audience aren't going to be familiar with that,
so they're not going to get the illusions or get the communication. So obviously he's going to use
like some sort of well known Greek literature, Homer's going to be the most well known, even the
public would have heard it sung, and so even the literate people would know Homer from the
singing of it in public and so on. If you know Greek, you definitely do. I think the problem is
they're starting with some presuppositions. Of course. I don't want to rabbit you all that these
are not very bright authors. Right. Number two, they're starting with a paradigm in which the
milieu is only Jewish and they have a horrible conception of the Hellenism that was going on
in that time. And yet these texts are written in Greek, so they're clearly not for a Hebrew
speaking audience. Right. Obviously if there are Hebrew speakers who also speak or read Greek,
then they're going to benefit from this as well. But obviously this is a Greek audience they're
going for, which means Greek speaking Jews and Gentiles, obviously because Mark is a pro-Gentile
text. So that's, you know, in the case that they're stupid, quote unquote, like when you get to the
emulations of the septrogen, you can't claim that, oh, they're too stupid to do this when they're
doing it. Like it's mainstream already accepts that they're doing it with the septrogen and the
Deuteronomy and Exodus and stuff like that. So it's obviously they're clever and they're obviously
they're doing it really brilliantly. Obviously this is literary artwork. So you can't just suddenly
say, oh, now they're too stupid to do it when it's Homer. No, obviously not. Yeah.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you enjoyed that show. I have hundreds of other ones on the patron
letting you guys know you can help us continue doing what we're doing at MythVision Podcast.
Also, you can have questions asked to the academics that I research with and I interview.
Your question can be asked in a 1080p high quality video that might end up on YouTube.
Like I said, ladies and gentlemen, I want to expose the cults, show these superstitions for
what they are and the errors within these texts and all of these religions to help people realize
they're all man made and that we have what it takes. All we need to do is pull together.
Let me tell you something. The religious world has the financial backing that those skeptics,
such as myself, don't have. So if you want to help and be a participant, you can for a little
little bit a month. It's not much. If you want to go more, you can. But like I said,
this is how I can keep the lights on for MythVision.
