Please become a patron of Myth Fish and Podcast.
Get access to everything early.
Help us grow.
Ian Mills, New Testament Review Podcast.
Ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description.
Make sure you guys subscribe to the channel.
He will have a Patreon here soon.
And when he does, I'll put it down there as well.
If it's there, go ahead and join it.
Help him out.
We're talking about the infancy gospel of Thomas.
We spoke about Gospel Mary, Gospel Thomas.
Obviously, the infancy gospel of Thomas is non-canonical.
So that means it's fun, I guess.
If you don't mind, tell me, what is this gospel?
So we've looked at a number of Gnostic Gospels together.
This is not a Gnostic Gospel.
At least, it's not obviously a Gnostic Gospel.
And unlike the Gospel of Thomas and the Gospel of Mary,
which have some pretty clear teachings that are pretty
clearly contrary to what the proto-Orthodox church would
decide is Orthodox Christian theology,
have some even rejections or repudiations
of the canonical Gospels, the infancy gospel of Thomas
is really just a prequel to the canonical Gospels.
And as a result of this, it's actually
been really popular throughout the history of Christianity
and has influenced Christian art,
has influenced Christian teachings about Jesus,
it and the proto-Evangelium of James,
which is the other sort of prequel gospel, which
tells the story of Mary's childhood
and then the birth of Jesus.
It renairates the birth of Jesus.
These two texts, unlike the sort of Gospel of Judas, Gospel
of Thomas, Gospel of Mary, have in some times and some places
almost had a liminal status in the church.
It's not to say they were ever part of the New Testament.
We don't have any canons of the New Testament
that include these texts.
We do have canons of the New Testament
that include other texts that are not part of our 27 books.
But there's never been a time when
the Infancy Gospel of Thomas, so far as I know,
so far as the evidence indicates,
was bound up with Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
But Christians read this.
This was popular.
And you can still find art in medieval churches.
You can still find art in manuscripts
that depicts some of these scenes.
And this text even influenced the chronic depiction of Jesus,
the depiction of Jesus.
In the Quran, we have the famous scenes
of Jesus creating birds and Jesus in the school room.
That one's not in the Quran, but these sayings
get repeated throughout Christian literature
and are important.
So what is the Infancy Gospel of Thomas?
Well, it's not the Gospel of Thomas,
as we already talked about.
But it does claim to be written by Thomas the Israelite.
And this text starts with Jesus as a five-year-old
and tells a series of episodes
of Jesus sort of flexing his power, potentially.
There's a debate over how to interpret this text.
A certain school of thought has the story
of Jesus growing in wisdom and power,
which is more or less what Luke actually says, right?
Luke says that Jesus learned.
Luke says that Jesus developed over time.
And some people have read this text
as sort of a narrative telling.
What does it look like for a God incarnate to grow,
to develop in wisdom?
And the answer this text gives to that
is when Jesus started off,
he was just killing people willy-nilly.
A boy would bump into him in the street
and he would knock him dead.
He would curse his teacher
for criticizing him.
That's the answer that this text gives us.
And then over time, the people of Nazareth
come to Jesus' parents and say you need to teach him
to do good, to be merciful, to be caring.
And potentially one reading of this text
is that Jesus does, Jesus develops.
And so towards the end of the text
we have Jesus healing people, Jesus doing miracles.
James gets bitten by a snake.
James, the brother of Jesus, and Jesus heals him.
Jesus is helping Joseph's construction work.
Joseph cuts a board wrong and Jesus lengthens the board.
And so you have, on one interpretation of this text,
you have Jesus growing in moral character,
which is interesting.
Another interpretation of this
is that there is no development.
That what this text is trying to do
is, well, I should back up,
it's conventional in ancient biography
to have stories of the child of heroes,
of famous people, of even demigods, I suppose,
to have stories of these kinds of people
doing the things that would make them famous
when they were adults.
So you'll tell a story of the infant Hercules going off
and doing some show of strength,
strangling some snakes in the bed, right?
And that's the sort of thing
that he's going to do as an adult
and just retroject it.
Kind of like David ends up ripping the jaw of a lion
as a youth while he's out there pastoring his flock.
Then later, he's tearing the head off Goliath, so.
Yep, yep, so the other school of thought
that doesn't see moral development
in the Infancy Gospel of Thomas
is that this is just showing
that Jesus could do this all along
and that Jesus was always the kind of person
who had this kind of power.
And students, I've taught this text a couple of times,
students read this and say,
this is so radically different from the Jesus we see.
I mean, we have Jesus,
not only is Jesus doing nice things
like healing a snake bite and creating clay sparrows
and bringing them to life,
but he's cursing people and knocking people dead.
And maybe it's a little bit different,
but I remind you, Jesus hates figs, right?
Jesus comes across a fig tree that's not bearing fruit
and it's out of season and he curses the fig tree
and says, never bear fruit again.
Now, that's doing something rhetorically,
that's doing something narratively
in the Gospel of Mark and Matthew.
It's probably a commentary on the temple.
It's a whole mark in sandwich
where it's being sandwiched in between
the story of Jesus's action in the temple.
That's not really my point.
My point is Jesus cursing things,
Jesus doing acts of power is in the gospels.
And so this, on this other school of thought,
is just showing that Jesus could always
do these kinds of things.
Which side do you, I mean, you've taught on this.
Yeah.
And so this does beg the question.
And I'm sure you still get torn in both directions.
You're probably like torn in the middle somewhere,
but on a good day, where do you lean?
I like the moral development story.
I think there's some things to be said for this.
I mean, this, it is described as the paitaka
It is described as the teachings of Jesus.
That's not right.
I think there is a case to be made
for the moral development for you.
We get this intervention to teach Jesus
to start doing good things.
And I do think the bad, when we say
that the questionable actions of Jesus are all front loaded
and the obviously nice things Jesus does
are all back loaded.
That is the come at the end of the narrative.
It does seem to me that there is a sort of
development across this story.
So that makes me wonder if there's a moral development
growing in the God of the flesh.
Jesus in the flesh being God in the flesh, okay.
Well, I kind of have to ask this in the vein
of this question.
So first, dating this text, but in light of Gnosticism,
which acts like he has it all from day one, baby.
And everything all at once almost doesn't need
any growth or development.
Makes me wonder how early Gnostic ideas
were permeating in out there.
Cause I wonder if the development idea
is kind of a way of saying, listen,
even God in the flesh grew.
He had development, which makes me think Luke
being a little later, maybe already we're seeing guys
coming on going, nope, full God, no need for growth.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Well, okay, there's a lot to unpack there.
I mean, one of the things is, you know,
Gnostic ideas being out there.
Again, I've argued, I think it's incontrovertible
that Gnosticism isn't a thing.
There is not a church of Gnosticism.
Gnosticism isn't a coordinated ideology.
Rather, it's one of the many ways, or no,
it is actually itself many ways of synthesizing
contemporary Platonic philosophy,
contemporary ideas about metaphysics
and knowledge and ethics with Christian thought,
which proto-orthodox people did that too.
They just did it a little differently.
So to say that Gnostic thought was already out there
is of course itself obviously true,
because there were Platonic philosophers
before Christianity came around.
So, you know, it's for sure in the air.
It's for sure in the water.
I'm not sure how much I see this text
actually engaging with that explicitly.
This text seems to be engaging with the canonical gospels.
It concludes with a story, a retelling,
a very close retelling of Luke's description
of Jesus as a boy in the temple.
You know, the pinnacle is Jesus going to the temple
and teaching the people in the temple.
So Jesus, at least as I read this,
Jesus grows up into the boy in the temple
that we see in the gospel of Luke,
teaching people.
This wouldn't have any reflection
on the hypostatic union or anything like that.
No, I think it's probably too early.
You asked about dating this text,
and that's kind of a hard thing to do.
The very debate over the hypostatic union,
the very debate over the natures of Jesus
depends on a sort of conceptual apparatus,
a way of thinking about metaphysics
that just isn't, so far as we can tell,
just isn't formulated.
People just aren't using that language
to talk about Jesus in the first, second, third century.
I mean, okay, this start to in the third, I suppose.
But it's not that like that is or isn't biblical,
that is or isn't part of first century Christianity.
It's just that's not the language people are using.
It's not the questions they're asking.
So how do we date this text?
Well, the dating of this depends
on how you interpret Uranus.
Uranus, I think Uranus knows this text.
He explicitly quotes one episode from it,
which is this episode of the boy Jesus
learning his alphabet.
But that story is also a very popular story.
It shows up in other texts.
So some people have suggested maybe Uranus
just knew the story all by itself
or knew it from a different text.
It also shows up in the Epistle of Apostolorum
and several other texts.
Interestingly, Jesus is being taught alpha, beta,
and Jesus stops the teacher and says,
first tell me what alpha is,
and then I shall tell you what beta is.
And you're supposed to go, ooh.
Yeah, I know.
That is, I think it's emphasizing sort of
inscrutability or profound insight.
And that's never really fully explained.
But I think Marcin actually knows the text
as it's found in the Infancy Gospel of Thomas
based on his description of who's using this text
and the other episodes.
He connects this explicitly with other episodes
that are in the Infancy Gospel of Thomas.
So I think it's probably that dates
to before the 170s.
And so it's written sometime in the middle of the second century.
Just barely after some of those pastorals, huh?
Well, dating the composition of the pastorals
is a hard question.
I know, right?
Well, thank you very much.
I appreciate it.
Well, thank you.
Ha, ya.
Ha-ha, ya, that's funny.
Look, look at that, hey.
And it's pretty cool!
