Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Today, we're going to talk
about the Israeli-Palestinian war that is happening right now. I needed to give someone
something from my lips, but specifically not just mine. My father, who's a retired Green Beret. He
was in the seventh group. He's been through several different avenues within Special Forces.
He has combat experience. He understands what it means to be in combat in war and in the Middle
East. So he's engaged with terrorism, counterterrorism, trying to help take out targets that are
obviously the bad guys and worked hand in hand with several tribesmen in Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran.
I'm not sure exactly the details because you wouldn't tell me with your security clearance, but
introduce yourself. Mike Lambert, my dad. Just a little strange because I'm so used to talking
to you on a one-to-one level being dad. But doing an interview is, I'm actually honored to be on
MythVision. I think this is fantastic. Once again, we'll say, yes, not my area as far as the Middle
East of expertise. There's a different Special Forces group that covers that area, but I have
been there several times. I have done several missions there and have gotten to know other
people quite well. I'm a seventh group guy originally, like you said, so I'm Spanish-trained.
Spanish-trained white boy. He's a medic. I'm not getting rid of him. That's why you grew up in Port
Bragg, North Carolina and only moved one time in your life. Anywho, yeah, I guess just getting
into you. I guess the first thing you were asking me before we actually started rolling the cameras
was about 9-11. Yeah, so let me first, I just want to, before I ask this question, sure, I want to
make the point, the reason I'm doing this video is there's people that I've looked to and thought
these are really smart people. They are very popular. They do political stuff on their channels,
and I've been watching them and I'm a little grossed out by some of the rhetoric. The anti-Israeli
rhetoric in light of the recent events, and the reason it might be my upbringing that plays a
significant role, and I have a bit of patriotism I'm sure in me, but it's also a eye for an eye,
tooth for tooth kind of thing to me. If you kick my door in and harm my family, I will do whatever
is necessary to make sure you understand and your family that you will not want to mess with my
family. This is just me. It's just the way you raised me. So that gets a lot to do with your
upbringing. It has a lot to do with you and the way you've taught me and Kurt, but I see people
who are smart, who absolutely blindly surrender to the Palestinian side and Hamas and such,
to the point where Hamas are the good guys, the freedom fighters who are saving their people
from the oppression of the Israelis, et cetera, et cetera. And I just figure I want to have someone
else's voice like yours to speak up. So question. Sorry for the long thing, but this is so controversial.
Sure. And anyway, first question I have is what are the key similarities and differences between
the recent Hamas attack on Israel and the 9-11 attacks in the United States in terms of skellen
impact? Go wherever you want to take you. Well, for starters, I would say this is Israel's 9-11.
You know, with the exception of going back to 1940s where they were invaded by six different Muslim
countries all at once. And it was game on. And the whole world is just right after World War II.
So everybody was like, what is going on? Six day war. I mean, it didn't, I mean, they just cleaned
house and it just goes to show you what they are capable of doing. And I'm going to tell you right
now, I've trained with their special forces. I've trained with them. I've trained with several
different groups and they are outstanding and they're incredible. Yeah. It gets as far as our 9-11.
Think about how our country actually stood together and we got together and we realized,
hey, we've been attacked. You can only imagine back to 1941 in Pearl Harbor and people kind of lost
interest or just had forgotten. But it's something that we'll never forget. Well, here we are,
you know, 20 years later going, oh, 22 years later. Well, easy to forget.
And in terms of scale, I heard the president of Israel speak. He said something to the effect of
over a thousand people, civilians, were attacked. They invaded us. It wasn't just, you know, I shot
a bomb and hoped it hit, you know, mortars were dropping when I was in Afghanistan in 2010. We
used to wonder who's huts targeted next because they were aimlessly shooting. It seems like
they were targeting specifically trying to target areas. But they invaded, they killed over a thousand
and the Israeli president was getting a lot of press media people really trying to catch him,
trying to get him. Right. And he's like, you do understand that our population scale
were so much smaller than America. Our 9-11 just happened and it's 40 times the size,
based on population of deaths that we just had from a terrorist attack. 40 times, imagine if
9-11 happened in America and it was 40 times the size in terms of death toll than what it was when
we experienced it back in 2001. This is what the president's trying to express. Yeah. Not to mention
the hostages that have been taken. And like I said, I mentioned earlier to a friend of mine,
we were talking, they're celebrating, it's a season of celebration for the Israelis.
And that's when one of the first places it was attacked was this big dance party,
that there was approximately 250 young people there celebrating. And I guess it was about
6.30 in the morning or so. All of a sudden you look up and you know, they're showing videos and
there's like this young girl dancing and this guy dancing and you look in the background and I thought,
wow. I was like, here it comes. And they don't even know it. And what it was, it was those hang gliders
that were coming in. And I was like, that looks like a parachute team, a halo team coming in is
what it looked like. This was not done. This was just not done on a whim. This was not done
in a vacuum. This has been planned out. This has been planned out for many years. You look at
a lot of the places that are backing them and where they're getting their munitions from.
Why is it that the Israelis have all this great land and they've built, they were given desert
and swamp land? And I guess we'll get into that question. But I'm just saying, you know, yeah,
this has been planned and those rockets and everything came, you know, from sources.
I feel like as we get into this further, dad, as a human, you know I care about humans. Like,
I'm a humanist. I don't want to see war. I wish this didn't happen. I wish the leaders would get,
figure this out. Stop. I don't think that the negotiations will happen at this point, at least
right now until really something's changed because of the blood that has been shed on one side. Now
they're going after Hamas. They want to eradicate this terrorist organization
and really put an end to this from happening again. And I don't blame them personally. However,
I just, I figure I want to express this because I keep hearing people online who are saying,
look at what's going on. They've cut the power out. They'll say this is like a Geneva Convention
for the breaking international laws, cutting power out, food, etc. Is it, and I don't know,
maybe you don't know off the top of your head what the law, international law of war is, but
imagine my neighbor, okay, lives next door, is dependent on me. My house provides them electricity.
My house provides them food. My house provides them water. They come over, shoot my dog, shoot my
kid, try to take my wife and me or whatever. And then the other neighbors go, why did you turn
off the power and stop providing them food? When their neighboring country, Egypt, is there,
there's a border. They can provide them food in terms of war, especially if they side with Hamas
as it seems from what I've seen is there. The media is painting it and shifting this.
Yes.
To make Israel the absolute bad guys in the whole thing.
Absolutely. And my answer to that is you just declared war on my country. You just,
you came at me. I didn't come at you. I didn't start this. Things were going fine. We were living
peacefully side by side. And then out of nowhere, you come at me with this planned attack. And
war, yes, you stated it. It's a horrible thing. You know, you don't, you don't want to see the
innocence or you don't want to see the innocence injured in any way, shape or form, which when I
was discussing with someone earlier, it may have even been you yesterday about how I would have you
and your mother and the whole family, you'd be standing in the red line,
you know, waiting to exit the country. You would be with a million other people. Sorry,
this sucks, but you can't stay here because hell's coming. What was that move? You just tell them,
tell them we're coming and hell's coming with us. Yeah. So, you know, I mean, the bottom line is,
yeah, it's going to get ugly quick. I think so. Um, I have more questions here, but I kind of,
I just felt like expressing this, it's really weird how things happen online with some of
these people that I'm thinking, you guys are all for progressive values. You want gay rights. You
want people to have rights as trans people. You want to show, hey, we're growing beyond our older
ways as humans. These terrorist Hamas would be the first to cut your head off. Yes. To throw you
off of the roof and many of these countries that back you. And here's the thing, Sharif Gaber,
you don't know this person, ex-Muslim, he made a YouTube channel critiquing Islam while living
in an Islamic country. He got captured. Sure. He ended up going to prison or getting extremely
like big, big trouble and was not allowed to leave the country. He just posted recently on Twitter
saying, hopefully this is the last winner I have to spend in this country. He lives in Egypt. They
will not let him leave the country. I'm amazed he made it that far. Right. He wasn't just executed
on the spot. Which tells me maybe their values are starting to change. Yes. But it's like,
whoa. The people who are out here that are pro Hamas in this are like, do you even know their
values? Do you even know their ethics? Right. Can you see both sides? It goes back to the
values that you've been trained and you've been raised by. They can't be discriminatory.
They don't want to, like I said, I'm a soldier. I signed up for what I did and I'm responsible
for those actions and I have to live with those actions every day. And that's why I look back
and I can reflect honorably on my career and say, I did the right things. I made the right choices
at the right time and some were split second decisions. They're hard. But that's a soldier's
choice. I've signed up for that. But these innocents don't need any part of that. What I'm
getting at is like, they talk about the land and they talk about, well, you're talking about a line
that was drawn in the sand by the Brits in 47, 48, 1947, 1948. And it does not mean jack to a lot of
them, believe me. They're like, well, why did we get this land? And if you look back and you look
at the history, you can see that the Israelis were actually given the really worst part of that
area. They're given the desert. They were given the swamp lands and they've turned their country
into beautiful, beautiful country. On that note, Palestine receives a lot of money. They receive
a lot of money from the US, from the UN, from numerous sources. And where's all that money go?
It doesn't go towards their infrastructure. It doesn't go towards education. It doesn't go towards
building a better life for their families. It goes towards weaponry, towards destruction,
towards things of hatred. All I can say about that is that, you know, I mean,
is that how you really want to live? I mean, they state that Hamas has actually stated that Israel
will exist until Islam wipes them out, wipes them off the face of the earth.
This touches on things that go into jihad. This touches on things that, you know,
makes me wonder about more. And I'm not on the ground. I don't see exactly. And I heard a wonderful
interview on a news station where the guy goes, you know what? I wish I could have done. I wish
I could speak to these civilians and say, how do you feel about Hamas? Just so that we understood
how like, and I'm sure different ones have different opinions, but like, overall,
Hamas ran things for them. And so it's so complicated as that president of Israel said in
that press conference, which I liked it because the people were really pressing with these harder
questions and he tackled them. And they were like, well, what about the death toll of civilians on
the other side? And he says, well, when Intel, because they're now really paying attention,
we now have drones that are seeing this stuff over there. And he says, when you see that a kitchen
from a certain kitchen over here in Gaza Strip, missiles are being launched to my house, to my
backyard from that kitchen, civilian locale locale or not. Hamas is going into these civilian areas.
What do you do when the targets are in civilian territory that are being run by your, your
quote unquote, government of Hamas, the militia, the militia of your government are literally
fighting a war and then going into your civilian territory. What is Israel to do? Like just not
do anything? I don't know the answer to this. And well, the answer is quite simple. It's defend
yourself, defend yourself and your people, do whatever it takes to keep yourself and them alive.
And like I said, I revert back to it, but I say it was a line in the sand drawn, but this,
it's just like the Doran line that was drawn between Pakistan and Afghanistan. And one of the
fire bases I have to be on in Afghanistan was right there on the Pakistani border. They, they
don't acknowledge it. A lot of the folks don't acknowledge it. I expressed to you, I told you
a few days ago, we've been talking about something. And I said, there was a goat herder who lived
on the base of a mountain in Pakistan, but yet his herd of goats was actually on the Afghani side.
They don't really acknowledge it. And I can tell you from personal experience that I've seen where
the border is completely open, that they never had places set up until the U S ended up in
Afghanistan. They don't understand the difference between their country having a border. It's to
them, it's land. The Israeli prime minister has stated that Israel will change the landscape in the
Middle East in response to the Hamas attack. How does this compare to the U S war on tears aimed
to topple the Taliban regime? And what lessons can Israel learn from the U S's mistakes?
For starters, it would be the fact that, you know, there's a reason we've always been in the
Middle East. There's a reason we always have to keep going back. Most of the most intolerant
countries are in the Middle East and support terrorism and support these organizations such as
Hamas and Palestine and whatever. And then if you look at America itself, where we have people
who are supporting Palestine right now, which is understood, I mean, that's their ideology.
That's where they're coming from. That's their belief. But we allow that we're tolerant. We're
tolerant in this country of other people and of their religions and of their section of their
culture and their beliefs. Are you saying that if someone was in Gaza right now that supported
Israel, they probably wouldn't be alive for long? No, no, absolutely. So people in
America who who are pro Hamas actually have heard some of these people whose I feel brains are falling
out personally. They're just so not there's no common sense, no balance in the way they approach.
I understand. Hey, civilians are going to die. That would make me and it does make me go, oh,
my gosh, be very cautious how firm you are just going with one side. Part of my patriotism says
Israel get them in terms of the Hamas terrorist. The other part of me goes, how many innocents
are going to die because of this? This sucks. So I understand that. But there are people in America
that are pro Hamas that you are pretty much suggesting would probably end up being killed
by terrorists like Hamas if they were over in the Middle East saying some of the things they
truly believe. Yes, I'm not suggesting that I am guaranteeing that 100 percent they most definitely
would be. There's no tolerance for that. They won't accept it. Put it this way, their viewpoint is
this is, you know, the way it is and this is how it should be and this is what it's going to be.
Right. And whereas we're like, well, look, maybe this is not the way it should be. Maybe this is
not the way it has to be. There are other answers, you know, to questions. You do not have to kill
people in order to get what you want. They want, we've talked about it, the Tatali and Karafaat,
Karafaat. How do they want us? Kalafaat. They say it. I've heard it said several different ways.
I've heard it said in Arabic. I've heard it said and, you know, the languages we were taught
in Afghanistan. You're saying, though, that ultimately that there's a correlation and people
would be naive or even ignorant to not see a correlation between their ideology, meaning their
religion and the acts that we're actually witnessing here. You're not saying all Muslims, of course,
would be siding with us like any religion, but there's a huge proportion in the Middle East
of extreme groups with Islamic forefront. That is what's driving their mission against Israelis.
Exactly. You cannot you cannot lump one group together with everyone in that group. That's
like saying that, yeah, all Islamic people are bad. All Christians are bad. All these type of
people are bad. No, that's not true. You have good and evil in every human being and you have good
and evil in every society and in every person. But why do we have to keep going back to the Middle
East? Why do we have to keep fighting this problem? Why are they harboring terrorists? You know, when
they just when they stated that ISIS was destroyed, that we had done it. And you know what? We knew.
We knew, at least in my community, he's wrong. It'll never, it'll never change. You know, one of
the old adages was kill one, create three. So in other words, if this guy killed your father, killed
me in combat, well, which side are you going to grow up on? Which side are you going to grow up
believing? It's just, it's, yeah, it's pretty bad that, you know, you look at that and you think
that most of the evil states happen to be, you know, there. It's interesting about how the
tolerance that they have toward progressive values, you were saying. None, I'd like to say.
Lack of respect, a lack of seeing people's views as they see them, a lack of being able to respond
to people, how they are and who they are and treat them the way they should be treated.
Like a tolerance kind of thing. It is. It's a tolerance. It's, you know, and they have no
tolerance for it. And it's a way a lot of people internally feel for real when it comes down to
situations like this, but they won't state it. They keep it inside. You go back to the hashtag me
too. That's just recently happened in the last few years in the United States. And me as an old
man that has changed my views on how I treat women, how I respond to women. I could be at a
grocery store and rather than going, okay, hey, thank you, honey, have a great day, which
that's always doing. And that's just who I am and how I've always been that I now say,
I thank you, ma'am. Have a great day. Right. The honey part. You know, exactly. Leave that out
of there because that could be offensive. And it's never been offensive to me or anyone I knew,
but maybe it wasn't. They weren't telling me. Right. Right. They're not really open to that.
Yeah. And they, it's almost like part of you thinks when you think about this from the West
in a democracy with enlightenment values and such trying to progress in your world,
you think about it as like, what kind of world are these groups wanting? They want everyone to
become them in order for peace to be over the religion to peace. Oftentimes they'll say,
right, which is stated so in the Quran, which always blows my mind. It's stated that it is a
peaceful religion. However, peaceful to who? Yeah. And then we see what we see. And it's not peaceful
to anybody. I mean, it states, you know, no, you do not kill them, but yet kill the infidel.
Right. So there's, there's, you know, I know that there's some Muslims who will watch who are
going to disagree and go, no, no, no, I don't believe that. But like, so what about these states
and these actual groups that are religiously motivated, that are terrorist, and they aren't
small, they're huge amounts of people that are interpreting the more radical violent approach.
Yeah. And as you can see, I mean, we take it back to the United States. You see these
demonstrations going on, pro-Israel, pro-Palestine, but you don't see anybody being killed over.
You don't see the police dragging those people off and beating them and killing them and doing
those kind of things. That would not be tolerated from them. And anywhere you are in their areas
or their situations, they kill you. All right. And if they can make a statement by doing it,
one of their favorite things, of course, is to behead you, you know, and publish that to the
world, which is barbarism. How else do you describe that? I mean, it's terrorism. It's
one of the most horrific things that could possibly happen. So just to bring in one more
thing that I think is very important. Yeah. Proportionality is a term Britain loves to bring
up. Oh, sure. And is it a proportionate response that Israel is doing to Hamas right now? And
I don't know if you saw that video I sent you. I did not. Oh, it was really,
really well said because the reporter who's challenging this guy and going the proportionality,
is it really they cut off the food, the water, the this, the that? They're bombing over here,
the killing civilians now. Is this proportionate? You know, Britain has a fetish. She used the
term fetish for the word proportionate. Yeah. And he says, what would be proportionate is
we drive around Gaza, finding a music festival. Good luck doing that, he said, because they
don't they don't celebrate music. They don't play music. They have very ideologically. This is a
no no, right? But then we find a music festival gunned down 250 people, rape women in the streets,
take the hostages, behead the children, kill and shoot the women and, you know, in the head.
I mean, like the list goes on, right? Yeah. And he goes, I guess if we want to be proportionate,
then we should do that. Here, they're in war. It's nothing's completely proportionate. And it's
funny how when Israel gets involved in defending themselves from surrounding countries that have
people who want them dead and gone, the proportionate topic comes up when they ass kick the other
peoples who are trying to kill them. So I'm not look, I don't want to be full blown. Oh,
I just support everything Israel's doing. Like I sound like a Zionist or something. No,
not in any way. Right. I am for the democracy that is here. I am for like you just did this to us.
Yeah. So well, as stated before, you know, Israel has no choice. They must defend themselves. They
have to defend themselves. And they do have to come back with action, swift, violent. And, you
know, they have to do what they've got to do. Unfortunately, war is ugly. Yeah. And I can
just tell you that it's terrible that these innocents will be involved, that they will be caught
into it, that they will get caught up in it. But like I told you before, you would be in the exit
line, you'll be on that, you know, 10 million people stand in line, which creates problems for
other countries. You know, one of the problems we created in Jordan and Syria in 2011, 2012 was
the refugee crisis. But I'd rather you be standing in a, you know, a horrible refugee line and in a
horrible refugee camp than being in the tunnels of Palestine right now with your brothers and sisters
and your mom, because it's coming. I mean, there's no way around it. It's coming. So what do we do
with the fact that they strike knowing Israel's going to strike back? They knew this. They strike
and then they go back into the bunkers with their loved ones. They go back into the, they bring
themselves as a target instead of trying to find a way to get their families to slowly start creeping
for a celebration or something in head south so that they don't put their own in harm's way.
They knew they would attack. Why would they do this? Which also makes me think that, you know, of
course, why would you bring your family back into this? Why would you keep your family there?
I got you. It's wrong. You're telling me I have to leave. Well, an example here in the United
States is earthquakes, forest fires. People have to evacuate their homes all the time. Do they want
to? No. Do they want to lose their things? No. Do they want to lose that? All their stuff? No. But
what's the most precious thing we can have? Our lives. Our lives. Right. And if you want to keep
your life, you get out of there. You get out of there right now. I also believe that that's one
of the reasons you're seeing the timeline you're seeing, that it has not struck yet. One would
probably be, and again, I don't want to go into too much operational security, but pinpointing
hostages where they're at, what kind of negotiations are going on to retrieve them, and also to give
these people a chance to let the innocents get out and get them out of there as they should.
Hopefully, the bad actors are not delaying that process from happening and not allowing people
to leave. I've heard through the Great Vine Hamas is trying to encourage their people to stay
where they're at. Wow. Again, the value of life and your values. It's almost like, no,
remember what we said. It reminds me of the Jim Jones cult, where drink the Kool-Aid. No,
give to the children first. Let them die first. It's like, are you kidding me? You would rather
see your loved ones die with you than to try and get them in a safe place and to try and make sure
that it's man to man, like you said, war, us versus you, not our children,
wives, and whatnot. So anyway, values are totally different. I agree. I absolutely agree.
And there's no stopping it. There's going to be no stopping us. So, unfortunately,
that's where we're at in the world, which could be different. I think everyone does.
I think even people protesting on both sides, which could be different. I do, too. But it's
just, I don't want to seem like, oh, I'm just here to justify Israeli doing this. But I am.
I am trying to justify what were they supposed to do. And it's not like I go,
good, I'm glad that people are now going to die. Never. I wish that didn't happen.
You can't change what has already occurred. And I know what we would do as America.
I know what we would do. Again, we talk about the percenters. It could be less than
5% that could be the bad actors. Well, the other 95% need to get a high tail on and get moving.
Get your asses out of there. And I know you don't want to leave. And like I said before,
in the interview when we talked about if New York City had attacked upstate New York,
what would you do? Well, it doesn't mean that it's not going to be there in five years when you
return. It doesn't mean your home won't still be standing. It doesn't mean your stuff will still
be there. I mean, it may, it may not be. You know, war is hell. Very, very true statement. And
it is. But at the same time, hey, get out of there for now. Get to a safe place. Get to a safe
location. And then, you know, at some point in time, you'll be able to possibly return and return
to your home and to your loved ones. Well, it's the willingness to adopt and adapt and things
like that. And look, I've made my channel all about trying to get people from all these different
beliefs to progress and reinterpret for them less harmful. You know, if Jihad can be interpreted as
warfare, you know, self-sacrifice in a combat situation where you'll get immediate access to
heaven. I've always said, well, that's internal. Like there's some interpretations where people
say it's an internal struggle. Sure. Okay, let's make that the interpretation. Let's cut out the
warfare Jihad aspect that actually encourages you to battle against the infidel, your enemy,
in order to get directly into heaven. We get historically why that worked in the seventh
century with all the empires that be, you are to fight. They had to fight their way to become
something. Yes. And they did. And they did. And the Mongolians did as well. And they actually,
the Mongolians conquered more quicker than what happened with the Muslims. So when you look at
this, it's so... They were ruthless. They were ruthless. They were ruthless. All of them were.
All these different empires had probably different rules in which they did things,
but they were ruthless. That bringing that into today's time, it's a tough, it's a tough thing
if someone attacks us. What do we do? How do we properly respond? Are we supposed to bend over
and just take it? No, I don't think that's the answer. No, that's not the answer. Of course,
it's not the answer to go and kill and try to annihilate or hurt civilians in any way.
But when your terrorist Hamas group goes among your own civilians to hide,
goodness gracious, what, what do these people expect that are being all like,
how dare you guys try to tell these civilians to leave? I mean, what are they trying to do?
What do you think that is trying to happen? I believe Israel is trying to get those people
out of harm's way. It is a horrible way. Any way you slice it, there is no way around it.
Like I said, you guys would be on the bread line. You'd be on the immigration line trying to
get yourselves out of that area. But you did not choose this. And that's what's horrible.
Mama did not choose this. She did not choose this for herself and her three young ones.
You know, grandma and grandpa didn't choose this. All right, wherever this ideology that you have
came from, and you've decided to do this, you've now put us in harm's way because we are part of you.
You cannot allow what's happened to happen to go unresponded. It just cannot happen.
It was well planned out. There's no doubt about it. Well planned out. Numerous,
so much so that it overwhelmed what they, what do they call the dome in Israel, that there were
so many rocks that are actually overwhelmed the dome, that they could not shoot down the
missiles they needed to shut down. And it killed a lot of innocent folks. And no one's asked for
this. You know, I mean, where's this coming from? Right. Because a book stated this, because one
man, one woman, one person wrote this in a book thousands of years ago and stated this is how
things should be. This is how it, this is how it's supposed to be. I mean, it's,
I can't imagine that religion doesn't play some role. The cultural background behind
certain ideologies. There are variations. Not all Christians are the same. Not all Jews are the
same. Not all Muslims are the same. We've said this a thousand times, but when you see,
if you do a terrorist organization or a terror, you know, it's that, it's the same thing as like,
can we state a fact, even if it sounds offensive? I think it should be. When you list off the terrorist
organizations, you're going to find that most of them are predominantly extremist Muslims. Yes.
That have this ideology of Islam that needs to be squashed or changed where that ideology
doesn't continue. This is the worry I have is that ideology keeps spreading. So there's some
people online. What do you say to this? Someone like Hassanabi or a guy named Vash, they're like
always out there, very liberal in their politics and whatnot. But they'll say stuff like, because
I'm very liberal too in many ways, but I see how far it blows my mind to hear them say this stuff.
Well, what they're doing is they're telling them to evacuate so that all the people can come out,
then they could just genocide all of, this is what they're saying. The Israelis just want to
genocide all of these people in Gaza. So that's why they haven't do this evacuation order in order
to just kill everybody. Like, all right, now we see you. That's how they paint it. Well, one,
nobody knows what's going on as far as that's concerned. Okay. Nobody knows the plans.
Unlike America, we, you know, they don't announce what they're going to do, how they're going to
respond to this. Right. Yes, we would like it to be soldier on soldier. Wouldn't you? I don't want to
see poor innocents killed, you know, just because so and so decided to start a war. And you may have
one out of every 20 men who decided that this is what we're going to do. I don't know. I don't
know enough about the area. I'm not an expert on it. I have friends that are, that do know quite a
bit, a lot more than I do, especially about that area of operations. No, you do not want those people
involved. So what is the best thing for them to do? It's a bad situation, but to make it the least
horrific situation is to get those people who do not want to be a part of it out of there. Listen,
we're not saying you can't come back. We're not saying that, you know, none of that isn't going
to be here in five years and that you won't be able to return. Does it suck? Yes. Do you want to
leave? No. I got it. But guess what? Someone made that decision for you and it is no longer in your
hands. That decision is no longer in your hands and it's coming. And the best thing to do is to
get you out of here and get you safe, the safest location we possibly can. That's the way I see it.
The international community's response to the Hamas attack appears different from the response to
9-11. What are the implications of this discrepancy and how might it affect Israel's actions moving
forward? So as far as the international reaction to it, everyone's reactions are going to be
different, but imagine this. I think maybe here's part of the issue. We as the United States live
within a border. We live within our own area. Can you imagine New York City attacking upstate New
York? So now how do you respond to that? And who's going to choose what side and how are we going
to deal with that kind of craziness? Who's the innocence? Who are the combatants? Who do we go
after? Who do we not go after? How do we go after them? Oh, by the way, you decide to take,
you know, however many people from our area as hostages. Once again, as a soldier, as a warrior,
as a man of honor, I'd like to say, how do we try to stop them from doing this,
being cowards, hiding behind human shields? Okay, I have a friend that was killed in 2005,
Eric, excuse me, four. And he was killed because there was basically the bad situation was a little
girl was being used as a shield. And when a couple of the guys thought they should frag the room,
in other words, throw a fragmentation grenade into the room and just clear the room, he said no.
And God bless him and God rest his soul, but Pedro Munoz, he went in, he assaulted it himself,
he took the guy out, he saved the little girl's life, but it cost him his. So I mean, it's the
decisions you make, you know, just so I'm understanding you clearly and the audience is getting this.
In American warrior combat in the war situation, we're not using civilians as shields, we're not
hiding behind civilians, which look, we haven't had a home front, you know, war since the civil
war, technically, right, like amongst our own people. And here we are. But as far as going over
into some other region or another war zone, we're not grabbing their families and putting guns to
their families heads to try and get them. But you're saying from your experience, you've seen
this in the Middle East where they're using their own civilians and their own wife, children, mother,
grandparents, whoever as targets, putting guns to their heads to get the American soldiers to stop.
Yeah, exactly. I mean, it's sad, but you think about it and you know that, you know,
it goes back to the basics. It's right and wrong. How do you become experts in anything?
You become a master of the basics. And that's what you do to hide yourself behind another human being.
I mean, not another soldier, not another fighter. That's just cowardice. And we don't play by those
rules. And we do have rules we have to go by. And we follow those rules to a T. And if we don't,
we're punished for them. Okay, or we punish our men. And as it should be, not give them named
gymnasiums and named streets after them after they do some horrific act. Yeah, exactly. I mean,
you don't hide behind children. You don't threaten to kill a child because, you know, you and I
have a have a spat. You and I are fighting. So you don't go, well, okay, well, then I'm going to
kill your kid. What where does that come from? I mean, it's straight up cowardice. I mean, it's just
I don't know how to react. Other than that, just it's so upsetting. You know, just so upsetting.
What strategies could Israel employ to limit the turret, the territorial and individual scope
of its military operations in response to the current conflict with Hamas? Again, let me reread
that. What's what strategies could Israel employ to limit the territorial and individual scope of
its military operations in response to the current conflict with Hamas, especially considering that
Hamas operatives are scattered across different countries. Exactly. Right now, I would say they
need to focus on the Hamas militants that are right there in their own backyard in Palestine,
which I understand is very difficult to do, because they have like a tunnel system. The only
kind of reference I have to it is the tunnel system. They claim that, you know, they have
under the ground between the south and, you know, getting drugs into this country, how we run.
And I have no idea how they're doing that, how you actually go in. It's going to be ugly
any way you look at it. It's going to be brutal. It's going to be bloody. And that's why I said
the first thing to do is to get the innocence out of there. So when people criticize, you know,
President Benjamin Netanyahu for telling these Palestinian people, you need to leave,
he means it, because he's saying, let's, it's coming, we're coming in. And it is very difficult,
even with extreme training. And I think you know a lot of the extreme training that your,
your own old man went through, and the units I was with, that we have to do to get into a room
to shoot people. And now we're talking, talking a dark tunnel, talking about going down in there.
I'm talking about, I'm coming after Derek Lambert. I'm coming after you. I'm not coming
after the other ones, but they could be using them as shields. How do I, you know,
just retain the fact that, I mean, you never say that, right? Did I, how do I, you brought aside
who is who, how can I get to you without getting the innocent in the way? And that is why you
want to get them out of there. Okay. So this is going to get real raw here. Right. But this is
necessary to explain. There's no way with us comfy at home in America, sitting in our seats,
for you to understand what I'm about to say. But in combat, in war, it is ugly and it is bad,
right? So you were telling me there was a book yesterday, and I was actually shocked by the
title. Yes. Called Shoot the Women First. Yes. Okay. Listen, I heard this and I was like,
what, why would, why would they title it this? Yeah. Dad, explain why getting the civilians
out of there is a good idea based on a combat special ops person like you doorbanger kicking
doors in, we're going in to take out bad guys. Why that book would be titled that and why it's
probably good that all men or women, children, kids are out of there. Explain why that title.
Well, it goes back to, I mean, you know, for this country, we could go back to women's
liberation and just say, yes, you know, women should have equal rights. Yes. I mean, women weren't
allowed to vote in our own country until what, the 40s? Ridiculous. You know, I mean, this is just
some of the thing, the progression we've made is fantastic. Since I've been alive myself,
without giving away my age, but I'm an old man. Bottom line is, is yes, you have to get these
people out of there because it is going to get ugly. It's going to get ugly fast. I'm coming in
there to get you and you're one, you're either intentionally using your children as shields,
because you know that's going to slow me down or hasn't make me hesitate, which gives you the
upper hand and killing me to, you know, destroy my mission. Or two, it makes it, it makes you win
all together because you know that me being who I am, that's why I was talking about the training
is trained as well trained as I am in a dark tunnel in the middle of the night, in the middle
of the day, it doesn't matter. I'm in a dark tunnel and I'm going in and I'm here in movement and I'm
going and I'm ready to shoot someone. How I have to make that split decision between,
do I know this is a small child? Do I know, is this a woman with a newspaper that looks like
a rifle being held at me going, Hey, hold on, stop, you know, and this is where there's a language
barrier type thing that comes in. I mean, a lot of problems happen with those things.
Well, you were explaining yesterday and I just want to highlight it because this one moment
really made sense in my head, even if holy smokes, I don't know how we can even justify this, but it's
still a thing is that when you're going in to get this, let's say a terrorist and we have a target,
Osama Bin Laden, we have, remember what happened? He literally goes in, his family is in this home.
Now, here's the problem. You described it and said the reason that that title makes sense in a
combat war situation is that the wife, the mother, of course, she's going to protect hers,
her man, her love or the man that is hers. She may actually be someone who has a weapon.
And as soon as you go, Oh, it's a, it's just a, it's just the wife. We're not cool. Turn my back.
I'm killed by you. So this is why the, the, they should heed this warning, get out of there.
If they're going to send ground troops in to try and go and take over and get the extremist,
the Hamas terrorist and their combat militia away or destroy them, because in these females
that might be in there protecting their men or completely innocent bystanders, you don't know,
you can't read their mind. You don't, and you don't have that capability. To my understanding,
as I, as I recall when team six went in and got Ben Laden, one of the wives did pick up a weapon.
One of the wives was firing upon them. And yeah, that was, I don't recall if she was killed or not.
I mean, if someone's firing at you, obviously you fire back, but she may have just been extremely
injured, but I'm not sure. But I believe one of the women in the bedroom was killed. She was a
combatant. You do not know. Luckily for me, before I even entered the military the first time
as a young man, I had a friend, an older friend of my father's who was a police officer.
And he told me a story and it was a story that had just stuck with me and it just never left me.
And I was like, that's just nuts. Well, he was called to a domestic complaint. He went in. It was
a fight between a husband and a wife. And he goes over and he looks at the wife and she's got the
hell beat out of her. She's bleeding. She's black and blue already. She's destroyed. And he said,
ma'am, I'm going to take him to jail. Do you agree that that is what should happen? And she said,
Oh, absolutely 100%. He said, yes, sir. He read the man is Miranda rights, turns him around,
cuffs him, says, as I'm walking out the front door, I hear this cha-ching like a shock and I
also feel it. The wife had jumped on his back with a butcher knife and stabbed him in the body armor.
Luckily, he was wearing body armor. Back then, Lord knows what level protection he had, but
it was enough to stop the knife. And but she jumped on his back and stabbed him,
because he was arresting her husband. Same situation. I don't know what's going through
that woman's mind. Is she the one with her hand on the detonator? Or is it you? I don't know.
I don't know. And I meant to look up the name of the guy who did write that book. And it was
written years ago in the 80s, but it was considered a very highly read. Yeah, that's a crazy title.
Shoot the women first. I wanted to catch your attention. Yeah, that's exactly why I brought
it up. Of course, I wish none of this was happening. No, I wish none of us wish this is happening.
But it's like when you're navigating something so controversial and difficult, and you hear people
just blindly, completely swaying to the side, even if there have been issues between both
people. Yes, like it just blew my mind to hear some of these things come out like they just
want to genocide and annihilate. And they just this this that and it's like, whoa, okay, so how
should Israel real quick on that? Let me just say this. That's another thing. The Palestinians,
they've never accepted any of the offers that have been given up. If you read their paper,
Israelis, the Jewish people have been kicked out of, you know,
Psycho Joe from Blazing Saddles, you know, or one of the movies, we've been kicked out of every
decent country in America, or, you know, an every decent country in the world, right? It was Stripes
actually Bill Murray, you know, we've been kicked out of every decent country in the world. Well,
he's he's right. They have been persecuted and they've been kicked out of every country in the
world. I mean, the Nazis exterminate what a third of the Jewish population themselves,
just during the World War Two period, a short period of time when you look at it overall,
to say we just exterminated a third of a population. And that amount of time, that's just crazy.
But no, they've been offered deals time and time again. Let's do I don't know what they are. I don't
want to get into the details and say, Well, I know they were like a two state solution.
And like I said before, and they've been offered and they have money from multiple sources.
But they use it towards hatred. They use it towards building more weapons. Not towards
education of their children, not towards bettering, you know, their environment, bettering their
living situation. It's used towards hatred. It's used towards warfare. And it's why it makes me
think you bring up the whole really anti-Semitism that is a real, real thing. I mean, it's so real.
It blows me away that anyone would have that kind of hate toward Jewish people, period. But this,
I heard someone say, I think it was Michael Shermer, something I saw on Twitter, and he said
something about the left has gone so far left that they end up on the extreme right. Exactly.
That they literally are so far that they're supporting people. Their ideology is absolute
terror and like the hate of these Jewish people and annihilate the Israelis and literally willing
to bomb themselves, kill others, kill hostages, kill these infants, you know, the whole nine.
And you how do you end up over here? Look, I don't want to even get into politics. I just want to
point out these smart, sophisticated, I'm all liberal, the very people who would end up killing
the people you supposedly stand for, it makes very little sense to me. So let me go back to
another question. Sure. How should Israel navigate the legal aspects of captured Hamas militants?
They capture them, they surrender in the combat situation, particularly when it comes to categorizing
these militants as non-international combats or prisoners of war. Well, for us again, we go back
to, you know, the Geneva Conventions and the laws of land warfare, the rules of land warfare.
We had specific ways to deal with POWs. And it wasn't the crap that you see. And it does happen.
We have bad actors, you know, just like they'll say about police officers. Well, quite honestly,
less than 1% of cops, okay, are on end up being bad folks. It's the same thing with us in special
forces. We're so highly selected and trained. Very few slip through the cracks. You'll get a
couple here and there. And they'll want to, you know, go to extremes to make this person talk or
whatever. And it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. That's not our job. That's not what you do. That
is your job was to capture them. They surrendered. They laid down their arms. Our job is to treat
them humanitarily now. And, you know, not with loving kindness, not wrap my arms around you and
love you. And hey, now I'm here to give you a big bear hug. But no, but I'm not going to also,
at the same time, I'm not going to treat you, you know, in any way, shape or form, there's going to
injure you. There's going to hurt you. But you are a POW. You're a prisoner of war. How do they deal
with them? That's a start. For starters, you, you detain them, you get them into their own
separate location, and you keep them out of the fight. And that just, and of course, again,
lessens the amount of combat that you're dealing with. Right. And they're also trying to gain
information probably to help with the situation from we have people trained that, you know,
outside of my area, of course, that are trained in interrogation that would go ahead and they would
do those type of interrogations and speak with them and say, Hey, what, what do you know? What
don't you know? And, but like I said, pretty much you're getting three odds of the count. We treat
them like someone who's arrested here in the United States. But that's our military. How is
Israel going to deal with this? I don't know. Again, you guys will be standing in the bread line. You
would be standing with a million other folks exiting that country, waiting to somehow get out,
which again, creates a crisis in itself, which people don't look at. But that was one of the
reasons in 2012, we had a problem. You know, Jordan was being overrun by the Syrian refugees,
we had all those problems going on. And these things have been going on for thousands of years
in the Middle East. It's like, I get it. I got it. But when are you going to, when are you going to
get your act together? You've been given chance after chance after chance. But yet you keep repeating
the same things insanity. It is insanity. Next question. The characterization of the Israel
Hamas conflict as international or non international has legal and humanitarian implications. What
should Israel consider when deciding how to categorize the conflict and how might it impact the
treatment of captured individuals? Well, I wouldn't say they're actually, I wouldn't consider them
international. If someone claims they're a fighter that was sent from Hamas, from Iran, for instance.
Well, then guess what? That's where you're going to end up, you know, going back to that's, that's
a tough one. That's how you right now you need to deal with what's right in front of you in your
own backyard. How are you going to handle this situation? Get these combatants, get them off
the battlefield, either by killing them, or by, you know, POW by confiscating them, but remove
from the battlefield and get these things moving on. The other difficult problem I have here is that
I heard and I don't know the number, but it might be 17 Americans are being held hostage in Gaza right
now. So this is another international thing where Israelis, the Israel is our ally. And then not
only are they our ally, we also have hostages that are American citizens in Gaza in light of this
situation. So we kind of have their back, but we also have to have our back of our own citizens.
What do you think we as Americans should do as a retired Green Beret in Special Forces, etc?
Yeah, this is, this was something you and I discussed earlier at one point time off camera.
What will we do today if Mexico attacked the United States? Okay, like, like a really well
organized, really well organized came into New Mexico or Arizona or Texas and came across that
border and killed all these innocent people. And then they took a bunch of people, right prisoners.
You have a ton of dual citizenship. That's just the way it is. You have a lot of Mexican Americans.
And what are you going to do? I mean, they are still considered American citizens.
So yes, it is our responsibility, at least in my opinion, as a soldier to rescue those American
citizens. So when people say, well, why is, why is the US putting boots on the ground? Well,
that is exactly why we're not there to go after these Palestinian fighters necessarily. Okay,
it may come to that. You may be drawn us into this. We see it with Ukraine. We see it with Russia.
We see it with China, who's been ostensibly quiet. But at the same time, we see all these
outside actors, like I said, I know for a fact that Iran is part of they had a plant
that was specifically building weapons for Palestine. And once it comes out in New York
Times, whoever, there's no denying it. There's there's no getting around doing it. So
where did you get all these weapons that you came into Israel with this the attack?
Right. Gets in the weeds. How might Israel's experience in combating terrorism and insurgency,
both domestically and internationally inform its response to the Hamas attack?
Are there specific tactics or strategies from your experience that could be relevant in this
context? That gets into a little bit of OPSEC, we call it or operational security. Whereas some
of the ways I would do business, some of the ways I would have my team doing business,
I prefer not to discuss. But that is one of those things that they're going to
decide on their own. That's, you know, Israel's going to decide whether this is how we're going
to go in here. You know, we've located this area, or we've located these hostages. This is who's
going to get them. I mean, those are decisions that are, yeah, I mean, way up here. Can I make
them? Sure. I can make them in a split second. Would it be the right call? Hopefully. Right. I
want to say, you know, 99% of the time 99 plus percent of the time I made the right decisions
in a split second. But it was only because of the training I had. Right. Well, this in light of
this is outside of the special ops, you're in the combat zone. But the next question I have is
the international community's response. So the world is watching, right? The response to the
situation in Gaza appears to be mixed, right? We talked about there's people who are like, whoa,
poor Palestinians, and rightly so, because it's a screwed up situation. I mean, I mean,
these are humans. It's a humanitarian issue. My grandmother is there. You know, I mean,
she's not. No, you're making him say, you know, yeah, you know, but then there's also people
who realize like you do not do and not think that they're not going to come like who in the right
mind thinks that this is justified or that it somehow just needs to be squashed and it's nothing
to respond to. So it's a mixed situation. How should Israel navigate this diplomatic landscape
in light of the world watching and seeing whether this is right or wrong to garner support for its
actions and objectives? Should they ignore or should they try to do things in a way that gets
more villainized because this is what a lot of these people on the other side of the power has
been shut off and right now. And exactly. And like, I'm sorry, but I can only go back to that one
reason one more reason to leave. Get the people who are not bad actors who do not want to be
combatants who do not want to be killed, who do not want to be in harm's way.
Does it suck? Yeah, it sucks. It sucks a lot. I don't want to leave my house today. But guess what?
I was just told my neighborhood's about to be attacked. Right. Okay, I'm grabbed my family. I'm
going and out of there. In light of that, you make an interesting point because if this the next
question and I want to bring this back to the point of what's happening over in Gaza right now
in the context of current conflict with Hamas, what role might intelligence gathering and sharing
play? And how could your experience in special operations inform these efforts? I want to paint
that question like how does your experience inform this? But we all have saw or seen they cut off gas,
they cut off power, they cut off food, they cut off electricity. To me, I scratch my head wondering
why are they dependent on that when they're bordering, you know, they literally are neighbors
with Egypt. Why'd you do it to begin with, right? Right, like why is this, but then also you got
to imagine what if their plan, what if the whole point of cutting off this was to get civilians to
go, we can't, this isn't going to be livable. Let's get out of here. Let's escape now. And now
they're giving them, they're like giving them the steps to help them get out of there. Right.
Because of this, I feel like the way that the people who villainized the Israelis right now
are painting the narrative in such a negative light. What if it was their special ops and
the higher people who thought, because we don't know that these private conversations,
first step in getting them out of here and away from our borders from bombing us is to
shut off any reasons and resources for them to want to be next to us. Now, if they were dependent on
Egypt, instead of completely relying on Israelis whom they want to bite the hand that supposedly
is feeding them, which is absurd to me. I don't know the in and outs. Maybe I'm ignorant on this
and I don't see exactly the dynamics, but well, number one, what is terrorism? Terrorism is where
I put you in enough fear to create you to do something you don't want to do. Okay, because
I've either threatened or I have done or I have completed. Okay, so this only
amplifies the amount of support and all poor them for the international community, because
now they've shut off the power, they've shut off the water, what they're being evil tyrants are
doing this or doing that. Well, guess what? We have to. We've got to get in there. We've got to see
what's going on. Yes, we shut the water off. Yes, we shut the electricity off. Yes,
we want the innocent people to leave. Okay, if you want a war, then come at us. Let's fight like
you know, and that could be as, see that you're calling me to that could be a sexist comment,
but let's fight like men. I get what you mean, but you know what I'm saying? Let's be warriors
about this. Let's fight the way we should fight. You want to be in this fight, then it's us against
you. Okay, you against me, me against you. Okay, I don't need to go upstairs and beat up your wife,
you know, to prove to you that you need to come down to my house later to beat my ass, not going
to happen. Okay, just not the way, just not the way we work. And as far as Intel internationally
goes or any of that kind of stuff, like having intelligence, gathering intelligence, intelligence
and stuff, do you think it would help Israel in terms of the whole what we were talking about with
the world is watching to say, all right, these are why we did these actions, but we could not say
at the time. And this is why we're at right now. Absolutely. Do you think that it's a smart move in
combat situation though to say that so far or should they wait till dust really settles before
they give any Intel because people are watching? No, they need to wait because here's why this is why
I've always loved Israel. Israel kicks your ass and tells you about it later. Okay, unlike us who
puts it out there and all that does is put your troops in danger, puts our missions in jeopardy,
puts, it makes it harder on me as a special operator. Okay, oh, well, hey, we got special
forces going in over here. Like I said with Israel, they are we're kicking your ass and we'll talk
about it later. And I love that about them because that is how we try to work in special forces,
because you do not want to give away your plans to your enemies. And America is one of the worst
ones about doing it. Okay, you got the president of the United States on, you know, whichever president
name one since I've, you know, been serving since Reagan. And I gave my a joy. But, you know, the
bottom line is, is they put it out there and they tell them, Oh, yeah, well, we're going to, we'll
be deploying these guys are this ship's going this place now this way. Well, hey, thanks. Thanks for
the Intel. Thanks for letting us know. Okay, they had a saying in World War Two, loose lips sink ships.
Well, they actually did. Okay, because what they did is they told them where these ships were going
and we didn't have the obviously communications we have today. But the Intel got out and what they
do they send submarines to sink our ships. Okay, now we have, you know, 500 dead sailors,
a ship that doesn't work. So that's where that old saying comes from, loose lips sink ships. So no,
do not discuss your missions, do not discuss what you're doing. Will they will help them
internationally as far as letting them know why they're doing what they're doing? Sure, there'll
be, you know, there'll be PR people on the ground. Let them know that there's certain reasons they're
doing certain things. But at the same time, don't put me in danger, don't put my life in danger,
and my team's life in danger, because, you know, you had you felt compelled to put this
off to the world because the world's screaming, we want to know we want this one. Well, yeah,
everybody wants to know, well, guess what? Sometimes you don't know your own grandmother.
Okay, two days ago, ask me, well, I mean, I can understand if we're supporting them like Ukraine
and we're sending them, you know, missile stuff, but we're, you know, boots on the ground. I said,
mom, they have us hostages on the ground. You understand that, right? Well, yeah, I do. But I
mean, what and I said, that's our responsibility. Those are our people. We want them back. Okay,
we want every single one of them back. Not by and you know, and here's the other thing and without
getting into too much politics, but we just did the $6 billion deal with you. We were giving you a
chance. You know, when it comes to Iran, who I believe is the big actor. Okay, as far as backing
Palestine, we've given you every chance in the book. I mean, come on, when it, when is enough
bottom line? No, do not put those answers out there.
Explain as best as you can as to why we're doing what we're doing. If I was Israel, and President
Benton, not Nyahu, I would absolutely discuss to a degree why I'm doing what I'm doing and trying to
get the innocence out of harm's way. But other than that, no, do not discuss operational
no contingencies and this and the other thing because all that does is put my life in danger
and makes missions fail. That's what it does. Makes missions fail.
So I guess I want to wrap things up by saying it sucks. Both ways suck. I hate that people have to
die, that people are dying. I hate what happened. Yeah, why they have to do it. Right. And so,
of course, you know, there's an extreme ideology when you look behind Hamas. They've been known as
a terrorist organization for a long time and they've been running the show here in Gaza with the
Palestinians. So it's like, I didn't want this interview to be a justification for like human
lives being at loss. Right. But when I see enough people, the only reason I even did this dad and
called you down here was that, you know, I was going to remain silent and not even, you know,
let the world kind of like let things happen because they're going to happen whether I say
something or not. But when I saw people who stood for values that I stand for, not realize that those
values do not stand in the places that they are wanting to support, but you can go to Israel,
be gay, same sex. You can be trans. You can go to these places. It is a democracy. You have rights.
You can be these things. You can be same sex relationship, the whole nine. Like I repeat that
to point out to my. It's called freedom. Yeah. It's called freedom. Yeah. Much more than what you
would imagine going into these areas where it is far more backwards in those ethical ways and
not I've heard this from many ex-Muslims and I don't think enough people who are liberal skeptics
like me who don't think this stuff is true pay attention to the ex-Muslims who come out of this
particular religion and describe the hate to Jews, describe the extremism that comes out of it in
the teachings that they've discovered, which made them go, this is horrible. Right. And they're not
paying attention to that. And then they want to act like their values are lining up with people who
are acting in the very value that they do not agree with. It just shocks me. And I felt like
balance needs to be brought in, especially with all the anti-Semitism and stuff that does exist
in the world. I just felt like we needed to bring a little more balance to saying,
is Israel completely right in every action they're probably doing? Maybe not. I can't see everything.
But I can't judge and act like when you've done what you've done and they now commit war going
after you, you see my catch point. And it's quite easy to criticize me. It's quite easy
to criticize anyone. Very easy for me to point the finger at you and go, well, you know, you're
wrong because of this. You're wrong because of that. You're wrong. Now, wait a minute. Why is that?
Because you see it that way? Or is it because the thousand people that are your friends see it that
way? Or is right, right? And is wrong, wrong? I mean, which is it? The other thing is you stated
that something I will point out is they are not, all these organizations that get mentioned,
Taliban, Al Qaeda, ISIS, they are not government organizations. They're religious
organizations. So when you point out ideology, put that in there as food for thought.
Okay, because they are not government organizations, they're religious organizations.
So, you know, born and raised Catholic. Does that mean I should force that upon you?
Did I, as you grew up? Never. I did not. Why? I was blessed enough to meet your mother who
told me no. She thought you were wrong. Yeah, of course. And you didn't force it on her,
she didn't force it on you. But I did get to make my own mind up. And the interesting thing is is
I'm not, I might be an apostate to the religion, but like my family loves me either way. They love
me no matter what. There is no, I don't, I'm not condemned. I don't, I don't, you know, I don't get
No one whispers behind your back. Did you know Derek doesn't go to church? Did you know?
They already know that. I mean, really? I mean, come on, you know? Right. And I think in my,
I mean, if there's ever been hiccups, it's like minuscule discussions any family member would
have, like they argue over something. Kurt thinks UFOs are behind this and that. And I'm like, dude,
are you kidding me? He probably gets more crap than I do. But the point is, is like,
that we want to see a world where these ideas and freedoms are there. And as one of the presidents
said, I don't know who all the presidents are, but one of them wasn't Ben Nahu, whatever his name
is, particularly Ben Nahu, I always butcher that. It was another guy who got the press and he dealt
with their questions. And he says, look, what we're dealing with is barbarism and civilization.
You have barbarism, the acts that they did were just unhumane versus civilized or civilization.
And so civilization must win out. Right. This little land is like a little piece of America
here in the Middle East. Right. And, you know, our values in many ways line up. I'm not a Zionist.
I don't think that God really gave the land. Right. You know? Right. And I do wish that people
did he sure. You gave him a pretty shitty spot. But hey, that's on that spot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, but at the end of the day, the desert and the swamp here, you know, you guys can have this
grab. Right. Well, they turned it into something quite interesting. And I want to make one more
comment. My friend Neil from Gnostic Informant said to me last year, when we were over there,
we went, saw some sights really cool. I don't know what's going to happen to my tour next year.
It might be held off. I might push it off a few years till we see for sure everything is calm and
just control the land. But he said, we went to Israel for like 11 days following one of my
Professor James Tabor's tour. He took a trip to Egypt to go see the pyramids. He got to taste a
little bit of another country that is not ran in a democratic way by people who allow you
liberties like that. And he said he felt really uncomfortable. Like he felt like even endangered
in a few points because it was so we're rewalking in front of people's houses on the strip, you have
to pay them just for walking by weird stuff like they were trying to coerce this American guy.
But then it gets worse. He goes to the hotel with the girl he's dating at the time, you know,
they're seeing each other. And they demanded he had marriage certificate because they couldn't
sleep in the same hotel room. So he had to pay $1,000 in order to get in a separate room in order to
sleep. And even then when he ordered food and I can't remember exactly how this way again,
no, you have to have two separate table. Like it was really, really like you're not married to her.
So you cannot. They had such restrictions. You have to order for her also. No, I don't know.
I doubt it. But you wouldn't be shocked. My Lord. But he felt I wouldn't be shocked. He felt the
difference. Huge difference in the regions and how people were in those places. I didn't feel
threatened at all. I mean, the closest you get to feeling nagged is when you're actually in Israel,
not Egypt. Right. When you're when you're in Israel, though, the closest you get to getting
nagged is when you're literally walking down the little strip that they have where they're selling
stuff. Right. They're trying to barter with you. Sure. It's, you know, it's fun. They're salespeople.
But you don't feel there's no coercion. I don't feel so. Anyway, unlike our car, they just don't
come out on the streets and go, Hey, Chevy's for sale today. Right. I just figure I'd voice that I
don't hear enough balance. You know, don't take that extreme approach, which might lead toward
more anti-Semitism in the world and create more problems towards Jewish people. Instead,
don't say shit like that. Exactly. That's my thoughts. If you can disagree with the actions,
but it's so one sided right now. And what would we do? It is one big mess. That is what it is. It's
one big mess. And Israel's got to respond. They have to face music. I mean, they didn't start this,
but I think they're sure as hell going to end it. So thank you. Yes, sir.
