Are there interpolations in the Quran? Today, I have a scholar joining me to take a deep dive
into a few examples of where scholars think there are interpolations in the Quran. Dr.
Ma'a'im of Putin is going to explain his position in this particular area, and if they are, is it
possible that these interpolations were inserted during Muhammad's life? You know, I wouldn't go
to William Lane Craig or some other apologist that's a Christian to ask them for the interpolations
in the New Testament. The same way I wouldn't go to an apologist in the Muslim world to ask him,
hey, where are the interpolations in the Quran? It's literally the opposition to their entire
faith position, that the Quran directly comes from heaven, etc. etc. So no, they wouldn't be
able to tell me if they even were. They wouldn't want to tell you that these are possibly inserted
later. But in this particular episode, it's quite interesting to see an academic come very close to
really suggesting that maybe these interpolations could go very, very far back, even to the Prophet
himself. Maybe Muhammad inserted some of these at some point in his latter years.
Let me know what you think, but even if that's granted, it doesn't require one to be of faith.
It just shows that they're trying to keep a manuscript tradition by standardizing a text
very early on as the rise of this empire developed.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Pod.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Today, I have Dr. Marijn van Puden. Welcome to MythVision, my friend.
Thank you. I'm happy to be back. Thank you. Yeah, thank you for joining me again.
And today, we're going to be dealing with interpolations, which is going to be a very
hot topic to discuss and to find out what and how and where and when and all these fun,
cool questions. Before we do, our audience is probably some of them, not aware of who you are and
what makes this guy qualified to talk about this. Can you tell us your qualifications and a little
bit about yourself? Yeah, sure. So I'm Marijn van Puden. I live in a Netherlands and I've been
doing research here for a couple of years. My background is originally in linguistics.
And in the past years, I've had a big project on the question of where does Arabic come from?
That's basically what I got interested in originally. I was like, what's going on? And
especially what happened with Arabic around the turn of the Islamic era, which is something we
surprisingly don't know that much about. And originally, I was going to use sources like
early papyri, early inscriptions and these kinds of things to learn something about this language.
And at some point, I realized, well, nobody's really looking at the Quran, which is very strange
because you think that's a very central, central book, but like real linguistic research into the
Quran and the Quranic text wasn't really being done. And that led me down a rabbit hole that went
really deep. Just looking at, you know, okay, what can we, what can I actually do with the Quran,
which led to questions of like, can we even trust that the Quran is from this early Islamic period
or, you know, is it from 200 years later? Some have argued. So I started working a lot with
early Quranic manuscripts, looking at those. And I mean, this is really, you know, being coming
together, I've written tons of articles, you know, just, you know, I've discovered a new letter
of the Arabic alphabet, which nobody had seen. And it's there in the Quranic manuscripts. So,
you know, that kind of stuff is really, really fun. So that's basically what I've been doing.
And hopefully I'll be, I'll be doing in the future. And I do do a lot of it on Twitter and have a
pretty public face that way. So that's what I do. And that's my qualifications.
Wow. Thank you so much for that. I really appreciate that. And I believe you, you've got a new book
that is out. This right here, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot tell you how important,
if you go to thebrill.com website that is down in the description, please go over here to the right,
download PDF. It is out. This is the Quranic Arabic. Okay. And this was written by Madan
Van Poet. So you actually can download this right now for free. It's free. It's free. It's free. Yeah.
You want to tell us about this? Yeah, I'll tell you something about it. So, so this is just,
just really just come out. I was surprised to find out just before we started,
because I thought it was going to come out in three days. But no, it came out on Valentine's Day,
which is, you know, a nice day to have it come out. So Quranic Arabic, this is basically the
result of the research that I was just talking about. So I've been looking at, you know, what can
we say about the history of the Quranic text? And specifically, what can we say about the language
of the Quran? And how can we find out? And that's the result of it. It's a big book. It's pretty
technical. So, you know, read it, beware, I suppose. But it's free and for everyone to download.
And if you want a hard copy, you have to pay a lot more money. But if you don't want a hard copy,
you can just download it free. It's open access. So that's really fantastic. And this really came
out of my project, which was funded by the Dutch organization for, you know, research.
So my project and they funded making this free. So I've got to thank them for that.
Yeah. Well, I just want everyone to know as we're on this topic, this is a must read. If you're
serious about wanting to educate yourself on this, get ready to read words you probably have never
heard. It's very difficult. I'm not going to lie. As I even was reading Sean Anthony's book on the
historical Muhammad, there's just a lot of tribe names and certain when you don't know
tribe names and this one too. Yeah, you kind of have to, right? Because you're dealing with,
especially if you're going into the language, you're the one of the unique scholars who points
out the hype of Arabic is actually coming from a tribe. It's a particular tribe's dialect. And
that is what's fascinating gets into your whole thesis here. I want everyone to know for a moment
here, this is his Patreon. And in his Patreon, of course, you could join behind the scenes,
you get the little special insider scoop of what's going on, or you could just be the fan.
Either way, either one you join, you can private message Dr. Van Putin and he will
answer your questions. I mean, actually have conversations with you for being a participant
helping support him. If there's a guy I really want to go to about a linguistic question or
anything Quran wise, Arabic wise, it does not matter. He doesn't just know that. I mean,
he knows multiple languages. This would be the guy I'd go to to ask about these particular things.
So please go join his Patreon. And if you don't join his Patreon, and you're like, look,
I'm not joining any more patrons, Derek, I'm just just throwing it out there. I really recommend
you do. But if not, you can give him a one time and go buy him some coffees on his Patreon, throw
him some coffees, private message him on Twitter or something like you could try and your best or
email him and throw him some coffees for his time. This is what I do on MythVision. I'm trying to
make the colleges realize that people, you know, things are going online and we're changing the
game. We really are on educating the world. So that is my shameless plug on helping go support
him. Thank you. Absolutely. Do you mind if I share with for one second actually what your
Braille book looks like? Sure, sure. Go ahead. This is the book here that you will download for
free on the Braille website by what I'm imputing. Please go get it. It's for free. You want to take
a deep dive. This is where it is. Look at these look at these words, right? Look at some of these
words. These. This is some serious linguistic stuff going on here. Go support our friend here,
our scholarly friend, Dr. Van Puden, and I really highly recommend everybody get the book. A lot of
stuff in here, highly recommend. Okay, there's my plug. Yeah, no problem. Absolutely. I appreciate
it. So today, what do you have for us? What are you preparing for us? Yeah, so we were talking
a while ago. You said, you know, we were talking about you wanted me to come back on. I was, okay,
well, let's figure out, you know, an actually interesting topic to talk about. And, you know,
we were talking about it. And you were, you know, talking about how in early biblical manuscripts,
you know, you have portions of text that are just missing altogether, which in later texts show up
and these kinds of things. So, you know, that's what we call interpolations, things that have been
added to the text over time. And sometimes these, these interpolations in any text, right, that
doesn't need to be a holy text, although that tends to be the place where we look for them.
They don't, they're not always always found in manuscripts, right? Every now and then you can
look at a text and you're like, this doesn't look like it belongs here. But, but it might still
be, you know, but we don't have any evidence, we don't have them found a manuscript where that bit
is missing. And we could still call those interpolations. We still say, well, this was clearly
asserted. It's just we don't have access to the time of a manuscript that it wasn't inserted yet.
So we were talking a little bit about that. And I think the Quran has some, some interesting
things going on with what looked like interpolations would have been identified as interpolations,
which kind of complicates the matter. And I thought it'd be fun to kind of explore that. And
especially, you know, with this kind of audience who's aware of these kinds of things going on
in the Bible, it's like, okay, how does that work in the Quran? Because it is a little bit
different. And we'll see a bit of that later on. Yeah, many just for, I mean, there's some famous
examples in the Bible, where we would see the Trinity or things that show up that weren't there
initially, even probably the promiscuous woman, or if you will, the adulterous woman, these are
things that weren't in the earliest sources in the earliest manuscripts, biblically, which are
kind of like everybody knows about this stuff. So it's just a shock everybody to let them know,
like the Quran was pretty established very early on. I personally think that is due to knowing
and having this experience. You know, if you have a brother, an older brother, just giving an analogy,
and let's say you had drug addiction, he experienced some drug addiction, you might not
go down that path that your brother went down, and he might actually have taught you a thing or
two and said, listen, this is what you want. This is what I did to overcome addiction, horrible
analogy, just using a point. And so the younger brother might be able to see that and go, okay,
I'm going to do something different. Maybe. Yeah, no, I think, but there's point in this analogy.
So let's back up a little bit about this. And let's just talk about what we know with these
manuscripts. So what becomes very clear very early on, and you know, I've done some research
and some papers on this, and you know, people cite me a lot for this. But if you look at the text,
really look at the text and look at the early manuscripts, not many people are looking at them.
The first thing that will strike you is that how similar they are. They are extremely similar. I
mean, it's really a totally different story than with New Testament, but even, you know, with like
early, early Hebrew Bible stuff, it's much more chaotic. And then you look at the Quran, and it's
just it's the same thing over and over again. It's not just the same thing, you know, like in
general lines, no, it's down, not just down to the words, it's down to the spellings, right,
even the specific spellings, and sometimes really random spellings are copied faithfully over and
over again. Sometimes a word can be spelled in two ways, but they'll always write in one place in
one way and the other place in another way. And you don't get any mixing in that early manuscript.
So really, scribes took the utmost care to really carefully copy these manuscripts.
So, so that's kind of interesting. And as you said, you know, it's like, well, is that because of an
example of the text? I don't know. That is putting a lot of faith in knowledge of textual problems
in the person who ever composed the Quran, which they may have, you know, but how, how,
where were people all of these issues? But the Quran does take pains to say, you know, look,
you know, that this text is in some way protected from corruption, and these previous texts were
corrupted. So I think that that, you know, that was a kind of self fulfilling prophecy. You know,
if the Quran says it has to be, it has to be preserved and it will be preserved. Yeah, obviously,
followers are going to try really hard to do so and they do. I mean, they're actually very successful
at it. So, and then the question kind of becomes, okay, so, so when, when was this text standardized,
we haven't already standard text. And so just to be clear, we have hundreds of manuscripts.
And every single one of them are part of the same text type, the standard text, except for one,
which we'll get to in a second as well. But I'll repeat it here as well. But all of them are the
same text type. And all of them are, you know, letter by letter, basically, small changes here
and there, of course, like it would always be. But it's really, really carefully controlled for
which suggests there was a common ancestor. So there was a single written text, people were not,
you know, hearing the Quran recited and writing down what they heard. No, no, they had a written
copy and that copy was distributed across the empire. And that was copied and copied and copied
extremely carefully to the point that, you know, there's barely any differences there.
The text is identical. And the question is, so when did that happen? Well,
we're starting to get some insight into that. So we have radiocarbon dated manuscripts and
radiocarbon dated manuscripts give, you know, dates in of these manuscripts on, say, the late
seventh century, and mid seventh century, that kind of era. And we have multiple of those. Well,
all of those descend from a single original text. So if they all descend from a single original
text, that original text must have been even earlier, right, because they've been copied from that.
Which brings us very close to a date, say, around the 650s. And not much later than that,
earlier techniques, technically possible, we have yet to see real manuscripts that really fall
out of line in a weird way, around 650, which is perfectly in line with the traditional Muslim
narrative about this, who say that Othman, the Third Caliph, who reigned around the 650s,
standardized the text and distributed across Islam campire. Well, that seems to be what we see,
that really seems to be what happened. So it really seems like Third Caliph really said, look,
we need a standard text guys, we can't go all over the place and do our own different thing,
because you know, we'll end up, well, maybe like the Christians, but I don't think it was so
precise, but they clearly felt it was important to get this kind of standardized end going on.
So that's kind of what we're stuck with. Now, then there's this other side. So I mentioned
there's one exception, there's one manuscript, which is actually a little different. And that's
a Sana'a palimpsest. So, you know, this is word palimpsest, which is a text, which had its original
text erased and a new text written over it. And with the Sana'a palimpsest, the new text is actually
the standard text, text we were just talking about. It is just the Quran. But on the lower text, there's
also a Quran, and that Quran is a little different. So the wording is a little different every now and
then it uses a slightly different wording here and there. The order of the chapters is different,
so the surahs are different, which is really quite striking. And well, that's basically it. And the
differences are still tiny. Like even, even still when we look at these texts, okay, sometimes there's
an actual word or two, but still actually all the verses are in the same order. Basically,
there's like one exception where it's slightly different order. And I think there's one place
where a verse is missing. But it's not like one of those verses where you think like, oh, that
that is really, you know, the juicy one that's now missing. There's nothing, nothing very important
theological in there. So even this text, which really seems to be a different text type, which
doesn't seem to descend at all from this standard or thematic text type, but really is a separate
track going back to an even earlier form of the text. That's the only evidence that we have
in the literary sources. So when we look at, you know,
books that talk about the early Quran, especially early sources, they talk about
some of the campaigns of the prophets, also having their own copies of the Quran. So
very often gets mentioned, Ibn Mas'ud, Ubayi, very often as well, but especially Ibn Mas'ud.
And in these literary sources, we get, you know, actual reports to say, I saw in the codex of Ibn
Mas'ud, this, such and such and such. And the kind of variants that we see in those kind of reports
are actually very similar to what we see in the Sanat al-Nasist. So they're not radically different,
but just worded slightly differently, slightly different construction, maybe an extra word or
two, a couple of words fewer. And there's still a report about them. So we don't have like actual
examples of, let's say a codex that we can say, well, that was clearly Ibn Mas'ud's, but it seems
to have existed. It really seems to have existed. And it's kind of part of this kind of sense of
what did the Quran look like before the standardization by Uthman. And we have a couple of,
you know, reports in the books. And then we have the Sanat al-Mas'ud, which basically proved that
these reports were not just made up. And interestingly, these companions, one of the things that's
reported for them is that they have a different order of the chapters, so a different order of the
Surahs, just like we find in the Sanat al-Mas'ud, which is interesting. I mean, why would you put
it in that order? Why would you do it in a different order? But clearly the order wasn't quite fixed
yet. And that is something we see in the Sanat al-Mas'ud to see what we see reported for these
so that's kind of the lay of the land of, you know, what is the text like?
Okay, that was really interesting. I have to say, what really catches my attention,
you know, I've mentioned this before, I'm a big fan of Scooby-Doo. I like to approach things,
you know, historians, right? They approach these things using what we would call a naturalistic
methodology, because it's the only way for us to actually ascertain what's going on.
So like, I'm making guesses just as much as the academics are trying to with this literature,
and I'm hearing this, and if we're granting the voices of what we're hearing from the Muslim side,
what we call Muslims, because early on, I'm not even sure that they were called that. So
what's really interesting is, when I think about this, they had examples of textual consistency
from Jews who were trying to keep their scriptures. In fact, in the 9th century, of course,
we get the Masoretic text, but there seems to be this rise of preservation of one's holy scriptures
in such a manner. It makes me wonder if this is why out the gate, they had this established,
making sure our empire, our faithful text, etc., is going to stay complete. So for those who aren't
miracle explanation type people, and you're like me, and you want to pull the mask off and try to
think what makes the most sense, it makes me think, especially as often as Jews and Christians seem
to be involved, whether they're Syriac Christians and Jews, that it makes me think they had examples.
It's not like they couldn't have looked around their new local neighbor and say,
well, see what they're doing? Let's do something better than that, because this is better than
that. In their mind, their belief, their faith, their story, their prophet, everything is better
than what the Jews and Christians are doing. And so here they are setting themselves apart in some
sense. And I'm just saying it as a Scooby-Doo kind of guy, so that everyone knows. You also mentioned
the slight variations and things like that that are so minuscule, even in the Palimpsest lower
manuscript, which really piques my interest, because I can't see the tradition of like, well,
it's just oral and someone's just reciting things they heard the prophet say. That itself sounds
highly implausible, like not the case. It seems more like what you're describing, that here is
the text, here is the standard. And maybe even prior to Uthman, if we grant that Uthman is where
we have this like, here is the set standard, even prior to that, I have a hunch that it's not even
like Wild Wild West, so to speak, it's still kind of pretty solid. And Uthman wanted to perfect it
or make it even better or something. Yeah, yeah. So I mean, basically, I think you're writing the
money here. So just to finish the thought, it's true, especially within Judaism, you see pretty
high consistency of text already, like, okay, sure, 9th century must read the text. And the question is,
where's the interaction going and which direction is it going in that case? I mean, there's really
some things going on with that. But things that we call the proto-Masoretic text, right? So the
text, which is basically the Masoretic text is just without all the Masoretic notes at it, but it's
the same continental skeleton. That's much earlier. And that's much earlier than Islam, even, right?
That's really, really around. We find versions of that in that C-school. So it's really, really
ancient. And so that's one side. So this idea of trying to preserve the text and, you know,
Jews were actually pretty good at it. It's just Christianity that did a really poor job at this,
or a really poor job is maybe they were, you know, not a great job. But by the time that the
Quran rolls around, they're doing a pretty good job at this. And so the other side of this, yeah,
so what's kind of interesting, it took me a while to really tune into this, but I think you're
right. Even if you look at, like, the variants that we see within what is reported for the
companion codices or what's reported for the Alan's test, these variations are really tiny.
Tiny to the point that it doesn't make so much sense that this was a purely oral thing.
These texts were probably, and this is what our reports tell us, were being written down, right?
It wasn't just people were only doing it from memory. Things were being copied and being copied
from one another. And we're probably being copied while they're being dictated really from the start
quite early on. And that's why we get so little variations. And there's some variations, some
variations. So Beham Sadi, one of my colleagues, wrote a beautiful paper on this on the son of
Ancest and saying, look, these variants that we find here, they don't look like oral variants.
It's not, you know, everybody just kind of composing their own version of the story on the fly.
But it kind of looks like they're from dictation. And the dictation being slightly faster than
people can actually keep up. So, you know, after a while, you're like, Oh, well, what was the wording
exactly? I'll put it like this. And, you know, people come to slightly different wording, but
still very close in that sense. So even, indeed, even before the standardization, there was already
a real focus on getting the text down and writing, which tells us all kinds of things. I mean,
there's all kinds of interesting questions about what's going on with literacy. You know, thinking
of, I'll say, these, these, these, these, high jazzy Arabs who absolutely had no idea how to read
or write and only want to start a conquering this, to figure it out. That's not going on. There were
clearly people, highly literate people, writing things down. And how many hard to say but clearly
whatever we see with these texts and the fact that all these campaigns of the Prophet had their
own copies. If we assume that they actually wrote it down themselves, that suggests pretty high
literacy. And even if we assume that they had their personal square to write this down for them,
even that implies pretty high literacy. So there's an interesting question there. I think
this is kind of taking us in a direction is like, but I sometimes wonder about this,
how do we think about literacy in this period? The written form was really important and every
now and then I get people and they're like, the written doesn't matter. It's about the
memorised Quran. It's like nobody memorises the Quran without a written text. I mean at some
point they managed to remember it, which is incredible, but they do use the written form. And
not just that, the early scribes really cared a lot because they even go as far as copying
minor spelling differences. We had zero, zero implication for the pronunciation
and they still copy it faithfully. So it was incredibly important to written form to them.
And that is something that I think sometimes gets underappreciated. It's like, well, I think
that's very mean to these scribes who really, really went out of their way, writing these
beautiful calligraphic manuscripts, taking such time to get everything right. And they say, wow,
who cares? I mean, it's all about the oral Quran anyway. No, it's also about the written Quran.
And they really cared. Yeah, that brings up a lot of questions about
just the fact that how did how did the oral tradition of the idea of recitation and the
actual text itself, that this brings up like almost like this struggle that makes me wonder,
like, eventually singing and reciting the Quran may have taken on its own tradition in such a
manner that at some point people are like, you know, it's always been this. And they have these
traditions that go back to saying, well, the people who recited the Quran, that's how they
wrote it down. And it seemed like there might be competing traditions on how the Quran came to be,
whether it was scribes who wrote this specifically, or if there's some makes me think of various
things. But maybe we can go ahead and deep dive into your presentation on interpolations.
Let's see that. Let's go into it. Awesome. Okay. And here we are. Make sure you let me know you
could see that. I can see it. Yep. All right. And let me pop that up full screen. I will not
be able to see you. Well, all right. So, yeah, so interpolation in the Quran. So let's talk about
this. So we took a little bit about, you know, what's an interpolation and how can we tell
and these kinds of things. And the Quran is really kind of an interesting, interesting issue here.
Like I said, you know, in the Bible, every now and then, like the woman taking an adultery,
it's just missing in the early manuscripts. It was very clear that someone inserted it at some
point. It was like, well, what did they insert in for? Was it, you know, for some kind of reason,
or just because they really like the story or whatever? There can be all kinds of reasons.
But you can see it. You can actually see it. And sometimes these stories are very obviously
interpolations, even before we discovered it, right? So there are clear examples
where people had either pegged like either in the Hebrew Bible or the Christian Bible
had already pegged, you know, some verses like these are clearly interpolations. We just need
to find a manuscript to prove it basically. And then you find it was like, oh, that was not a surprise.
And with the Quran, as we'll see in a little bit, it's a bit more difficult. But I thought I'd pick,
you know, two examples, which scholars tend to think of as interpolations. And I'll talk about
some of the issues and the reasons and these kinds of things. Let's get to the next slide. Yeah.
Um, so this is from, um,
from, from Surat al-Mudathir, which is Surah 74, if I'm not mistaken. And this is a really interesting,
interesting kind of verse. So kind of give this layout. Here's, you know, two pages of the Quran,
remember the Quran era, because veteran right to left. So we start with that with the right page.
And what you see here is you see the first, you know, couple of verses and whenever you see a
circle, that's the end of a verse. So you can see at the top right bottom, you can see the first
verses of the Surah. And very clearly, these, these, these verses are incredibly short, right?
Really, really, really short, tiny things, sometimes even only two words, sometimes three words at
max forwards. And then we go to the next page and we go to the top and we still see, you know,
these really short verses. And then we get to this highlighted portion, the blue portion,
which is huge. It's one, two, three, four, five, and a little bit lines. Well, you know,
all before that we had about three verses per line. Now all of a sudden we have one verse
which is six lines long. Even that just, just looks weird, right? What's going on there? Why,
why, why is, why is there this huge thing there? And these kinds of things make you wonder just,
just purely on a formal level. And you know, Misa linguist, I comment this from a very formal
level, I look at these things like, that's weird. This, you know, breaks with the pattern of the
Quran, breaks with the rhyme, with the rhythm, you know, like the Quran, as much as there's a
written text, it is also an oral text and its, and its performance is very important. So, you know,
unlike the Bible, the Quran is rhymed and there's hardly any verse that doesn't rhyme with a previous
verse. And in fact, this enormous verse does still rhyme with a previous verse. It's just,
the rhythm is gone. The rhyme is there, but the rhythm is gone. And that just makes you wonder,
okay, what's going on there? So let's, let's look a little bit about at the structure of, of what's
going on here. So you can go to the next slide. So, kind of give, give, give, give a sense of,
you know, what the structure is about, say, verse one to 10, address the messenger,
you know, traditionally taken to be Muhammad, but whoever. And, you know,
tells the message to be an ascetic, and then there's an oath about the day of judgment.
And then it goes into a long section, well, a long, I mean, these verses are very short, but
verse 11 to 26 are a chastisement of ingratitude. So, you know, here's some quick translations of
the things. So, and then he turned back and was arrogant 23 and said, this is not that magic
imitated from others or something like that. So, you know, people are saying, you know,
this stuff is just magic or this is the stuff, this is nothing. And these are only words of a
human being, right? That's, that's 1st 25. So, here the Quran is citing detractors of the Quran,
and, and then it says, I, that is God, so God is speaking in the first person will drive,
drive him who says that to soccer. Another question is, what is soccer? And well, clearly,
that was not an obvious words to, to do listeners either, because verses 27 to 30 go explanation
of what soccer is. And what lets you know what soccer is, that's, that's 1st 27. It spares nothing
and leaves nothing. It scorches, scorches the flesh of human, of man, I guess, will be a better
translation anyway. And there are 19 over it. Well, those first three verses probably should
make it clear that that soccer is a word for help. And there's some place, you know, where you can't
leave and where you're scorched. And that's how it's understood that soccer is supposed to be a
word for hell. And there's a bunch of names for, for hell all throughout the Quran. You have jahannam
and you have, and just, you know, the fire. And then there are 19 over it. So,
there are 19 over it. What does that mean? Well, that's a good question. What does that mean?
So, we can go to the next slide. So, you know, it's talking about these, you know, there's 19
over it. What does that even mean? 19 what? And this, this really large section seems to be all
about, you know, giving some kind of answer of 19 what? Which is kind of strange, because it really
seems to be directly answering the question, what do you mean 19? So, I'll give a translation here,
and it goes, you know, we have only appointed angels to be warden over the fire. Once again,
referring back to, you know, saqar at the hellfire. And I've made there a number, nothing but a means
of a trial for the deniers. That is to say, you know, don't, don't pay attention to this 19. It
doesn't matter. These are just angels and happen to be 19. And they, they are guarding over, over
hellfire of some kind. So that, so it's given as a trial for deniers, so that those given a
scripture may attain certitude, and those who have attained belief may increase in faith, and those
given the scripture and the believers may not doubt. And so that those in whose heart is sickness
and deniers may say, what did Allah mean with this as a parable? Right? This is literally the 19
what? Madad, Allah, the heather, mathalan. So what is this about? Why are you talking about 19?
You know, what is this? And thus God misguides whomever he wills and guides whomever he wills.
And none knows the soldiers or forces of your Lord except he. And this is nothing but a reminder
to human beings. And then the text continues again, basically. And the text, you could just remove
this whole section. And the text would still make sense. Well, that's one good indication of what
a, what an interpolation is about. And, you know, if you can remove it, and it seems to really fall
out of line, that makes a good sense. And this text seems to be somehow trying to answer, you
know, what is this 19 about? Why is it talking about 19? And, you know, that's a bit confusing and
weird. And it still doesn't really give an answer, though, which is kind of interesting. So sometimes
when we talk about, talk about interpolations, we sometimes talk about exegetical glosses,
right, glosses of places that are not totally understood. And someone else like writing, well,
this word means that. And then that gets incorporated into the text. That's not what this is. And it's
not even that. It's like, it's almost like an anti-exegetical gloss. It's kind of like, wouldn't
you like to know, but you're a denier who cares about these 19, right? And so there's this interesting
thing going on, but it clearly is an interplay with the text. So kind of what it looks like
is you had this text and it talked about 19, and people were like 19 what? And then it's like,
well, you know, and it goes into some detail about the 19 and what's going on with that and how,
you know, people, only people who don't see the truth will be asking that question.
And, but doesn't really want to answer it. So I have questions. I already have like,
I want to try and like, so first of all, just to get this straight, the interpolation
is what did Allah mean with this as a parable? No, the whole section. So, so all this text,
that's the whole, the whole interpolation. So it's huge. It's a lot of text. And so the whole thing
is kind of talking about that. And this is just one point. And I think it was, you know, it was,
it's why I put it in darker font just to kind of put that out. It's like, well, you know,
that seems to be talking about, you know, what does it mean that this, what are you talking about?
So what does this look like? I mean, it looks like the text didn't originally have this section.
And people recited it that way, or, you know, the prophets decided, recited it that way or
whoever. And at some point, people like, wait a minute, what is this about? And then someone
put in this text as a kind of an explanation. So who was it? You know, was it, did this happen
after the prophet had died and nobody understood what this 19 meant anymore? Did, did, you know,
he added himself, which is, you know, there are stories even within tradition, the tradition
of Islam. That's like, well, sometimes we'll say, well, in both cases, it will be an auto
interpolation. But, you know, the question is whether God interpolated it or Muhammad interpolated
it. Where they said, you know, no, at some point, some of these verses were added later. So we have
sometimes you have like, Mededin verses in, in Mackin Suras and these kinds of things. So they
were added later. So, so Muhammad would apparently go on as like, well, I had a new revelation and
supposed to go somewhere in the Surah. Is it one of those? So is this like an auto interpolation?
Could be. But we'll look at the textual evidence in a second.
Wow. It's also a quick note. Just go for it. Go for it. Go for it. I want to, I want to let people
know, specifically speaking to my kindred that I came from Christians and others who would love
to come to this and they love like getting we're dealing with actual academics here. But my point
is, is they'll go to these places you see. Thus, Allah misguides whomever he wills and guides whomever
whomever he wills. That's Bible. Just so everyone knows, like this is in the Bible. So quit pretending.
You know, quit, quit looking at Islam and going, ah, you know, Allah misguides. Dude,
the very prayer Jesus says is lead us not into temptation. Like, don't guide us to be,
let us stray. He's praying to his father according to the Gospel. So it's like, come on, man,
this is 101 Bible. Stop using these polemics against each other. All of them do it. Anyway,
go ahead. Sorry. I just had to make that point. Yeah, no. So it's just a really interesting
thing. So what's going on with this? Well, so if it's an interpolation, we can start asking the
question, okay, where is this interpolation? When was it inserted into the text? And I think we can
go to the next slide and kind of kind of look at it. Oh, no, I wanted to finish one last thought,
but I can do it on the next slide as well. So one thing, this is a really interesting
suggestion by a colleague of mine, Daniel Beck, who says there's 19. So very often this has been
understood as like people didn't understand what the 19 meant. And Daniel Beck says, no, no, the
reason why it goes into such polemics all of a sudden is because they knew exactly what the
19 meant. Because the number 19 actually has a function in, say, denierius at the time.
It's the important heavenly bodies that is the 12 zodiac signs and the five known planets at
the time. And the five known planets are, let me get this right, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Venus,
at least. No, and the moon, I don't know, maybe it's not Saturn. Anyway, one of those, Mars, Venus,
Jupiter, the moon, and the sun, which are planets, right? Because heliocentric.
I thought the sun and the moon were luminaries and that there were five different planets. I can't
remember exactly, but it might be something like that. This is also biblical, by the way.
So anyway, so it's a zodiac plus the five planets. So I guess it's not the sun and not the moon,
but it's indeed Mercury, Venus, Mars, Saturn, and Jupiter. That's probably right.
So that would be 17. So technically, you're adding the two luminaries of the moon and
the sun in there to make it 19. Oh, I am. Thank you. Thank you for doing my math for me.
Yeah, no, it's fine. It's fine. And I'm glad because this is something that is a powerful
point you're making, please. Yeah. So anyway, so he says, you know, they knew exactly what it meant.
And they were like, look, this sounds kind of weird and idolatrous, right? You're, you know,
there's these heavenly bodies guarding over hellfire or whatever was going on with that.
And I just think it's very interesting thought and it kind of puts a thing on his head. It's not
about people being confused about what this verse was about or what this 19 was about,
but actually they knew exactly what it was about. And we're like, this doesn't really fit with how
we understand this early new version of the religion. Another kind of interesting thing to
say about this 19 is it's a very popular thing among modern Quranist Muslims who think there's
something about this 19 and they see this, this, this verse as a kind of invitation to figure
out what the 19 code of the Quran is. And they do all kinds of like crazy calculations and they're
like, well, you know, you count the letters up together and then you get 19 and you divide it by
19 and you get this and that, which is all crazy because as much as the Quranic text is
incredibly stable, it is not so stable that you can take the modern text and say, well,
this is exactly how with man wrote it. And there's some kind of heavily message in there.
It's the Bible code. It's like the Bible code, but on the Quran. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So,
so this 19 has kind of multiple sides to that. So this is kind of numerological kind of
cult really that is obsessed with this. And every now and then people go to me and they,
you know, they sent me this huge books and websites like you got to figure it out and
you'll see that it's true. And it's like, look, here's one word that has missing the letter that
you just counted and all of a sudden all your calculations are wrong. But that doesn't, doesn't
deter them, of course. So like, well, if the calculations are wrong, clearly that manuscript
is wrong. It's like, well, you know, I mean, I can't do anything with that. Yeah, you can't.
Enough, enough poking fun at. No, I get it. You're not alone. I deal with it in the Bible.
I deal with people. So I totally get it. Yeah. Yeah, anyway, so yeah, let's go to the next bit.
So when was this inserted? Right. So we started looking at early manuscripts. Here's an early one.
This is probably an eighth century manuscript. And there I've underlined the, you know, upon it are
19. And then the rest of the verses is the interpolation. The interpolation is just there
in Israeli manuscripts. Okay, but that's only one manuscript. Maybe that manuscript just happens
to be the one that interpolated the text, right? That's possible. But we can go further. So go to
the next slide. So we can do a critical addition. We can take all the manuscripts that contain
this sura and compare them with one another. And if we do, we see that time and time again. So this
is actually from something I've been working on, a critical addition of the Quran.
I compared one, two, three, four, five, six, seven manuscripts with one another that have this sura
and all of them have this interpolation. They're all there, which suggests that the common ancestor
of all these manuscripts, which must have been, you know, around the time of Rothman,
already had this interpolation. So this is an interesting thing. And just to point out,
we can go to the next slide, actually. Why not? So as I said, I've been working on this
critical addition of the Quran. So what is a critical addition? A critical addition looks at
all the versions of the text that we have, put them together and try to reconstruct what the most
likely original text was. And this is actually something I've been doing on my Patreon. So if
you become a Patreon, yes, you can, you'll get free access to my critical addition of the Quran.
Now that I get $400 a month, which was my goal, I try to do 200 verses every month
of this critical addition. And I'm working it up backwards. So I had done this one already,
so I could do it and show it off. So if you're interested in that, and want to see more of it,
you can join with Patreon and see it. But now you saw at least one of it already.
So it's present in all the manuscripts. Comparing the manuscripts to one another,
we can reconstruct what your original looked like. And that original had this interpolation.
So this interpolation, if it happened, that's a big if, of course. It happened before the
standard text was established. That, of course, massively lessens the timeframe where we can make
make up a cool story about what happened exactly. Like the first looks weird, it looks uncertain,
I agree. But it's there in the earliest texts, and we don't have a single one where that bit is missing.
And that really makes us wonder, okay, so if of standardized text, that was about
two decades after the death of the Prophet, maybe even a bit less. So you have, if it happened,
like in a post prophetic period, this interpolation, you have about a 15 year gap to put it in there,
which is enough to put it in, but it has been put in. Or if we take the story of like, okay,
the Prophet actually sometimes had revelations, and then later on would update his revelations,
well, then it could actually be a prophetic interpolation. And I think there might be something
to it in this case, I think it might be a prophetic interpolation. Because I think it kind of makes
sense to see, you know, him interacting with people being confused about this number, or
understanding exactly what the number was about and being confused about that. So there's kind of
interesting interesting thing going on with that. But manuscripts don't tell us anything about it,
which is kind of interesting. The only thing to tell us is that it was in there already.
So I don't know, that really makes things different, right? And it would, of course,
be amazing if we would find a manuscript where this portion is missing. But so far we haven't,
and we found quite a lot of manuscripts by now, and you know, it's not there.
So is it, are we, by the way, just in case, I'm not trying to cut you off, are we done with this
particular one? Let me know, because before we move into the next one, I do have some questions,
I think. Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, I'm done with this one. So please, please ask questions.
Okay, so first thing, let me pop this back, just so it's just you and me for a second while we
get into this. This brings a lot of questions to my attention, and completely speculation on my part.
And I mean, it's, that's natural, right? We want to guess and try and find out what's going on,
especially when scholars themselves don't know exactly what's going on. I'm not going to pretend
to know. And I'm speaking for like, Muslim scholars that are like reading this going,
we think it might be this. So, you know, they're trying to understand what's going on, or is it
purposely left off. And this kind of gets into my question about my interview I did with Dr.
Shoemaker. So I'm just going to like, pitch it to you and then tell me what you think. And then,
you know, we'll wrap it up from then and we'll get back into your presentation. When I had Dr.
Steven Shoemaker on, he was mentioning that Muhammad and his companions believed that the
end of the world was going to happen in their lifetime. Is it possible that the reason why Muhammad
didn't make a standard version of the Quran towards the end of his lifetime is because no one was
going to be alive? So what's the point? So it's like this apocalypticism idea. And if, if, if the end
of the world was going to happen during Muhammad's time, then does that mean all the verses in the
Quran that talk about the future are possible, interpretate interpolations, or it's hard to
know. It's, it's, this gets into that apocalyptic vein. Yeah. So, so I'm pretty, I'm pretty
susceptible to the idea that there's clearly apocalypticism in the Quran. It's, it's, it's
very obvious and it's, it's very clearly obsessed with that, especially in the earlier surahs.
I don't think in the later surahs, that's the case. The later surahs are very interested in,
in very, very legalistic details. And, and I'm not so sure that, that Muhammad was a,
an apocalypticist until the end of his life. I mean, this is, I mean, like, like Shoemaker knows
better. So, so, so please, please, I refer to him as well. But to me, it seems like, and there's,
and this actually came out a little bit, but it seems to me that, that the Quran becomes very
interested in, in state building. And that's obviously because, I mean, even within, you know,
the traditional history of Muhammad's life, he becomes a head of state, right? He, he really
starts this, this new, new, new Medina state. And, and so becomes very obsessed with that and
becomes very, very central. And the, and in those later surahs, the, the kind of apocalyptic
message becomes less prominent, I guess. And of course, you can say all kinds of things. I mean,
you can still be a leader of states to bring about the end times or whatever. But, but, so I'm not,
I'm not sure whether that totally means that it's not apocalyptic. But, but I see, I mean, I think
there's a clear shift between like what the focus is and whether the apocalyptic focus is there or
not. So that's kind of what I'm thinking. The other question I had was related to your presentation
here that really had my, I don't know, my thinking was popping up. And it was that particular
part where he says, what did Allah mean with this as a parable? Thus,
thus Allah misguides whoever he wills and guides whoever he wills, right? We're all on the same
page here that, like I said, that's a biblical trope. And none knows the soldiers of your Lord,
except he. And I wonder if this, the soldiers of the Lord, I'm completely making a guess
interpretation here. The soldiers of the Lord potentially could be if we take in account
possibly the jihad interpretation of the expansion of the empire and that the keys to the kingdom
has something to do with the sword in real life, or the soldiers of the Lord are the 19
celestial bodies that are angels or some celestial heavenly bodies. The question I had was,
you talked about the Koran has different words for hell. And the word specifically that's being
questioned is S-A-Q-A-R. That I wonder if that is possibly related to apocalyptic judgment. Rather
than it being a place you go like what we think of as hell, I wonder if this is fire, because,
you know, God destroys the earth with water before he's going to melt all flesh with fire.
Do you see? So I'm wondering. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know. So, you know, with the, I mean,
I must say, I think, you know, the soldiers of your Lord, I don't really understand what it means.
So we, which is not to say that, you know, there might be people who do really understand,
and there might be good reasons both in right now, traditional, traditional,
to see it or not. I'm not sure what's going on there. I'm just guessing.
Yeah, no. So that's one side. Like, I'm not sure if really people know that well,
because it's actually difficult first, this one. And this idea of S-A-Q-A-R being somehow
end times judgment unrelated to hell, I don't know. I think it's the only time,
and I'm going to look it up right now, that it gets used in the Koran. No, it's used to come
of other times, I think. One other time. One other time. What's that passage look like?
So anyway, so it's this kind of, so, you know, it's a word. It's kind of an isolated word.
It's a very different word from the normal words used for hell. So it could be, I don't know.
I certainly don't have an opinion about it, but it's an interesting thought.
Well, thank you. I just wanted to, like, sometimes you have to go out on a limb,
especially when we don't know. And I just thought maybe keeping the apocalypticism
a potential explanation and not just saying, you're going to hell and burning forever,
and this and this and that, what typical, like, the Christian idea of hell, but obviously it's
a different idea of hell. It just made me wonder.
What is the similarities there between Christianity and Islam when it comes to
conceptualizations of hell that's very similar?
Well, when it talks about fire melting the flesh, right, you see a passage in the Hebrew
Bible that could be taken that way that their tongues will melt to the socket of their mouth,
their eyeball sockets will melt. It's really crazy sounding. I know.
There's a passage in 2 Peter 3 in the New Testament where he talks about, well, God
destroyed the earth with water before, but the elements will melt with fervent heat, fire.
God will destroy everything with fire, and that is not hell. One might argue that's the fire of
God's judgment, which is hell, but that it's not like this is the place of eternity you're
going to rest. This is God's judgment of fire. So it makes me wonder, could this be? I don't know.
I don't know. But back to the presentation. Yeah, yeah, let's go for it. Let's go for it.
Awesome. Thank you so much for taking my questions.
All right. No problem. Next page. Yeah. So this is another passage that I
thought was kind of interesting highlighting because it adds a really interesting kind of
side to it. So this is Surat Maryam, a Surat Maryam so that this is the chapter of Mary,
and so Mary, the mother of Jesus. And what's interesting about this Surat in a couple of
ways is it has a very, very nice, but very unique rhyme. So it keeps on ending its verses in
over and over and over again. And it tells the story about how Jesus was born and what was
going on with Mary at the time and starts off talking about Zachariah, which also rhymes very
nicely in Iyah and Zachariah. So there's a couple of things going on there. And this rhyme is really
a pattern all throughout, at least the first part of the Surat. I think it switches near the end.
But somewhere in the middle, just interrupting this rhyme, there's a different rhyme.
And what's interesting about it is that that different rhyme that comes in, I think about
four verses, we'll see it in a second, so that interrupts a rhyme. It has its own internal
rhyme, that section, and then it picks up your original Iyah and rhyme again. So it really
breaks from the rhyme, says something which is kind of unrelated to the general story,
but kind of a side note to the original story, and then goes back again. And you can take it out and
the text works just fine. So once again, that kind of looks like an interpolation of some kind.
So let's go to the next slide, and now we can kind of look what it's about.
So Surat Mayim. So, you know, the first verse is mysterious letters. We don't know what any of
that means. But we can talk about it. Well, we can talk about it because I have no opinion about it.
And then it, you know, verses two to 15, it talks about Zachariah. And then it goes about the history
of marrying Jesus. So I've kind of summarized it, you know, also mentioned the scripture,
the story of Mary, she withdrew from her family to place in the east, Shatriah, is what it ends in.
And then a couple of verses later, but he said, I am but a messenger from your Lord,
so that I will give you a pure son, Rulaman Zakiah. This is Jesus, of course. And Jesus
starts talking as a baby. There's all kinds of interesting stories about this, and there's all
kinds of interactions with paraphiblical texts about the, you know, the infancy gospel and this
kind of stuff. Really interesting things. I think it's a shoemaker who has written on this, actually.
So there's some interesting things going on there. So Jesus said, Pete was on me on the day I was
born, and will be on the day I die, and the day I am raised to life again. So Yama Obathu Hayya,
right, once again, slightly different rhyme, but it's basically the same thing.
And that's the last verse, and then this kind of weird insertion. So it's verses 30, 40, 40,
so six verses, and seven, I don't know, keep track of my math for me.
So, and all of a sudden the rhyme is different. It doesn't have this Iya, Iya, Iya anymore,
but all of a sudden it has oon, im, oon, that kind of stuff, which's rhyming with each other in
the Chronic Rhyme. So it says something like, that is Jesus, son of Mary, the word of truth
about which they dispute, fihi, yam tarona, and it's not God, it is not for God to take a child,
exalted is he. When he decrees something, he says only be, and it is, kum fayakum,
right, rhyming with yam tarona. And next verse, God is my Lord and your Lord, so serve him.
This is a straight path, heather, siroth, and mustaqim, but factions differed among themselves,
so woe to those who disbelieve in the spectacle of a tremendous day, which is the end times,
min mashhadi yaw min nalim. So, but there's a really interesting thing, so it's talking about
the birth of Jesus, right, and it's talking, and it's specifically, very specifically,
this is something I only kind of come to, as I'm talking about it right now, it's talking about,
you know, Jesus coming back to life, and so the day I'm raised to life again, at the end times,
right, that's an important point here. And then all of a sudden it shifts, the rhyme shifts,
and it goes into this anti-Christian polemic, it's like, look, wait a minute, no, no, no,
Jesus is not the Son of God, don't be silly, right? God is insulted above everyone else,
he's not just gonna hit babies, that's weird. So, Jesus is of course very important, a very
important holy person within Islam, but clearly and very strongly not the Son of God, right?
And even though, you know, she's still a virginal birth, and she, you know, conceives,
conceives of Jesus through all the kind of magical ways, and by the power of God, but
apparently it's not God giving a child, so, you know, it's kind of interesting to think about
this well, it's like, I mean, are you not the Son of God, if God is the one who gives you life? I
don't know, I don't have a strong opinion about this, but it's an interesting question.
But so you have this kind of, and it continues a little bit more, but this is kind of like
insertion, people have generally seen this as, you know, this is clearly an interpolation and
that Christian polemic to make sure that, you know, people aren't confused, Islam is something
different from Christianity, you know, that kind of plays into these questions like,
was there a believer's movement that was not that concerned with the differences between
these different, you know, versions of religion, and then someone else came in, maybe, you know,
after Muhammad's death, they put it in there and said like, look, no, no, no, we don't do,
Jesus is the Son of God anymore. Well, you have to get rid of some more references about Jesus
not being the Son of God, so I don't think you can really sell that. But nevertheless,
I mean, that's kind of what it looks like, right? Why is it going out of his way? Why is it breaking
the rhyme? Why is it doing that? So it's been seen as an interpolation of some kind.
Any, any, any thoughts? Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is something that comes to mind. We haven't really
addressed this yet. And I apologize to the audience watching. You know, when we look in the New
Testament or in the Hebrew Bible, and we're trying to find interpolations, we're looking for
things like you say that break, what does this talk about? This is irrelevant or some of the
early sources, since we have so many different sources, it's not in some of them, but it is in
some of them. What would be the point? Like we see things like that that really help us raise
red flags as to why these things may or may not be original. In this, though, there's another
added methodology, I think, or a methodological tool in the Quran that you can use. And that is
that breaking of the rhythm that you don't find biblically. We mentioned this in passing, but
it doesn't seem like we really emphasize this. What would you think the goal of inserting this,
this breaks the rhythm? It does seem anti-Christian. If we were looking at some of the other academics,
what is his name? He wrote on the earliest movement is a believer's movement, which would
have consisted of Dr. Donner. Yeah, Dr. Donner, I'd love to interview him at some point, but
this makes me wonder, like you're saying, is this something that is starting to,
the movement is becoming exclusive and it's starting to separate itself from the other
communities? Yeah, so it's really attractive to read it like that. But we'll see that there's
some issues with it on a textual ground. Because different from the previous one, where we could
at least say, well, there's like a 15-year gap between the Prophet's death and
Othman's time, where it could have been inserted, I don't think we can make that case for this one.
We'll see it in the textual evidence in a second. But that's what makes it difficult.
And at this point of it, like, yeah, using rhyme and looking at these things, it's not without
problems either. Because, I mean, to too many Muslims, when I point to these kinds of things,
they go like, well, look, we are you to say, you know, how God is supposed to compose its holy text,
which I take as a fair point. The breaking of the rhyme with a clear break in the topic,
and then kind of going back to the thing, you could see that kind of the sidebar
conversation, the sidebar conversation of something else. And maybe it's just a purely
stylistic device to say, look, we're going to talk about something slightly different,
and then we'll get back to the story again, okay? And that could have been part of the
composition. I don't think that's nonsensical. So it's always dangerous to make these kinds of
arguments. And I mean, you got to think how you think about it. But there's issues with
seeing this as a late insertion, at least. So we'll see that in a second.
If I might say, just to be a nitpicky about what you were saying, I wouldn't say it's dangerous.
I know you said it's dangerous. But like, the reason why is, I can handle the Bible,
Hebrew Bible, New Testament. Sure, a Christian may not like it. A Christian may not be
comfortable with me going and venturing and hypothesizing, which is just speculation. This
is what it requires sometimes for us to test things and to look into these. But if we're
being dogmatic, that would be a different story unless we had like, legit reasons to
take a stand. And I don't think you're being dogmatic. So I just personally...
No, no, no. So I mean, I think it's true. But I think we need to be very aware of the
evidence that we're talking about. We're not talking about, you know, this isn't the kind
of thing like finding a manuscript where the passage is missing. It's really a different story.
And it's really different kind of arguments. And you can totally see that someone would decide to
break rhyme. I mean, you know, we see this in our poetry as well. It's totally possible for, I don't
know, Shakespeare's probably a bad example, but I don't know Shakespeare well enough. So I'll take
Shakespeare as an example anyway. You know, like having a kind of rhyme and then going into a slightly
different topic and to kind of mark that topic as being a separate topic, you do a different rhyme.
That's totally reasonable. The Quran doesn't do it that much. Even the last one that we looked at
didn't actually break the rhyme, even though it totally broke the rhythm. It didn't break the rhyme.
So we don't see that often. But we do see it like different passages within a surah with different
topics will switch rhyme. It's just not very common that it'll switch rhyme and then switch back again.
So there is a kind of association with rhyme and topics and these kinds of things,
which make especially this one, seeing this as an interpolation is actually dangerous. I
think it might not be an interpolation. But it might be. It's been identified as such. So there's
interesting things going on. Wow. And just to kind of point this out, like, sure, like the New
Testament, we can't really do these kinds of things. The Hebrew Bible, though, has poetry in it. And
it has a kind of poetic structure. And every now and then that poetic structure is suddenly broken.
So I'll do a terrible job of explaining this because I don't know the Hebrew Bible well enough.
But it kind of repeats things, right, and says things one way and then it turns them around
and says them again differently. And that's a typical thing of, say, Hebrew poetry. And then
if that doesn't happen, or all of a sudden there's something in between which breaks up this kind of
symmetry of these near synonyms, you're like, okay, well, clearly someone put something in there
that broke the poetry. That would have been easier than this one. That really kind of, you know,
that has a very strict structure and you can play around with it. But they're doing the same kind
of argument, right? They're looking at like, what is the structure? How would you normally do a verse
in this kind of poetic diction? And then if that's broken, you can say, well, that's weird,
that probably shouldn't have been there. And that's basically what we're doing here, too. So it is,
I mean, it has a history doing this kind of method. It's just not as relevant for the less
poetic text of the New Testament. So let's go to the next slide and kind of look at what's going on
here. So the question is, you know, is this section a interpolation? The text breaks a rhyme,
or breaks with the theme, right? It's, you know, talking about Jesus, and that is not,
and then he's done the Son of God. So if there's an interpolation, when did it happen? Well,
just like with the previous one, we can look at early manuscripts. Here's a beautiful early
manuscript. No, really one of the earliest ones. And it has this section. It's right there. It's
right in the place where we expect it to be. It's there. So it's present in the Uthmanic text.
In the standard text, it is there. But what's crazy is it goes even earlier. So let's go to the next
text. The next slide. Yeah. Because it's even in the Summa Palimpsest. So the Summa Palimpsest,
I mentioned already, it's a different text type, right? It's not the standard text. It is really a
separate branch of, say, a earlier source that both of them came from. And even though these very
verses that break the rhyme and, you know, are in there are actually worded slightly differently
from the standard text, it is actually a different text. It's not the same. But all the themes are
there. The rhyme is broken in the same way. And it's right there in the text. So what does that
tell us? It tells us that whatever texts or whatever version of the Quran the Summa Palimpsest
got its text from or whatever the Uthmanic text got its text from, that earlier source already had
this insertion from the start. And the Summa Palimpsest really, like the text we have, which
might be a copy of an earlier text, is already around the year 650. So the common ancestor of
these two main, of, say, the standard text type, and this must have been before that.
And I'll go to the next slide and we can look at that for a second. Oh, and maybe I should
say this real quick. Go back to the previous slide. So we're talking about the lower text here,
right? So we see the pretty clear dark text. That is the upper text. That is the standard Quran.
But the lower text, you can kind of see the traces of it. And we're looking at that. And yeah,
the text is right there. We can see Qun Fa Ya Qun. That's the red line on the left.
And so it's there. We can see it's there. It's breaking around. The end of the verse is even
marked and everything. So the insertion is there. So let's go to the next slide. So
Bernab Sadri, who I already mentioned, kind of looked at, you know, this Sanna Palimpsest,
which he calls the C1. He says, it's probably a companion codex, like even Masoud, which he
calls I am. And he said, like, okay, how do these texts interrelate with one another? Like these
companion codexies and the authentic text and how it goes back. And he says, well, there's really two
ways that the text could have happened. So either there was a single origin, which he calls P,
the prophetic origin, so to speak, which may have been a written text, you know, personal copy of
the prophet, or maybe it was a prophet dictating and everybody writing down at the same time,
or it may have been a later source and we just call it P. Let's stick to that name.
But all these three texts had a common source and it was an earlier source from which the
authentic text and the Sanna Palimpsest called C1 here, descend. He says, there's one other option
and that's that the authentic text is a kind of critical addition on itself, that the
authentic text collected from all kinds of companion codexies in different versions and
put it all together, including C1, and that fed into the authentic text and became it. Well,
even if that's the case, then at the very least, this earlier text C1, which is the Sanna Palimpsest,
had this addition. So in whatever way you cut it, it has to have been earlier and this
interpolation has to have been earlier around than the authentic text. So pre 650,
pre the decision to standardize the text when there were still non-Sanna texts around,
this interpolation was in there already and this kind of brings home how close
even the Sanna Palimpsest, which is a different text type, really is a kind of different thing.
These kind of differences, like my new differences wouldn't even register if we're talking about
the new testament. These are distinctions without a difference basically. But it's there and it's
there from the very, very start. And really like thinking about, okay, who would have been in the
authority to put in a, and who would have been, who would have been not just in a position to do
this, like put in this anti-Christian text into Surat Mariam, but also who would have had the
motivation, especially if we buy into the story that there was a kind of believer's movement,
why would you be doing that? We're not talking about an insertion that happens in Umayyad times,
where maybe the interrelation between Christians and Muslims is a bit different.
No, we're talking about a period before Othman, even before the Third Caliph. And in that period,
we're talking about like a decade rule between a prophet and that time. And a lot could have
happened there, but it's not so obvious, like one, who would have had the authority to insert that,
and two, who would have had a reason to insert that. So maybe it was actually their original
composition of the text. I don't know, I don't have a strong opinion about it, but it's essential
that we know this, right? It's essential that we know that it's there in the earliest texts and
it's there in other text types than the Othmanic texts, because that totally, totally changes the
game of what kind of historical stories we can come up with. And I'm perfectly happy with people
coming up with stories why this is an interrelation, but you can't call it an interrelation that
developed, you know, sometime after the death of the prophet, when the Amidst were having their
own little Antichristian story going on. That just doesn't work. It's earlier than that. We
can throw that out without any question. We can throw that out and actually have a story about
what's going on. I'd like to comment just to get your thoughts working with me on something here.
I can only do analogies here because I don't have anything to, I have no expert. This is why I have
you on here, you know, when it comes to the Quran. But let's use the Gospels for an example, horrible
example to compare. I know to my Muslim friends watching, I say that because they're like, no,
there's nothing like that. Well, no, I agree. I agree. But here you have Mark, all critical
scholars across the board just put it after 70. It's pretty clear. It knows too much. It knows
too much about the war. It just does. So here it knows too much about the war and it paints this
picture about the apostles. The apostles, it makes the apostles look like dimwits. They don't know
what they're talking about every time. They don't understand. They don't recognize the Son of God.
They don't get it. And the one time Peter does, Jesus said, look, you didn't know this flesh and
blood did not reveal this to you. But my father revealed this to you from heaven. But then the
Gospel of Matthew, scholars probably roughly a decade or so after Mark wants to fix a lot of
Mark, but still likes a lot of Mark. So he's using Mark. And then he corrects Mark by making all of
the apostles get it. They're not dimwits. They understand. And then every time you look at them,
I love that. That's what makes it so fun because there's so much controversy, you know, and it's
not just all like what you're finding is like, was it there? Was it not there? Which is a different
kind of excitement. But even let's say a scholar say a decade or so, there's such a difference
even in that short amount of time in the early writings of this stuff, in the early movements,
there's already difficult differences. So my question is if we take the conclusion that you're
running with, and we look at the second caliph, okay, is there any internal evidence within the
tradition within narratives, anything that we could think of, where Umar would have been,
you know, in some way shape or form already potentially, you know, sticking with this clear,
we're separated from this idea of the Son of God being Jesus idea Christianity, etc.
Because this is the same guy that if we go with the Islamic story, the one that actually conquers
Jerusalem, if we say Shoemaker, you know, those are interesting Christian voices. But this is a
guy who was going after Jerusalem, if we grant Muhammad's dead. So there's a lot of questions I
have, but I wondered if you thought maybe yeah, yeah, I mean, I certainly don't don't don't have a
qualified or smart opinion about it. I, I don't know. I don't know. But but I think I think that's
the kind of direction you need to think about, you know, if you really want to see it as an
interpolation, you have to think about that period. But even then, it's like, if we're talking about
that period, how come to unrelated texts, basically, I mean, you know, they're doing the same
text, but how come both of those unrelated texts, both have this insertion? Like there needs to be
an earlier source, source still. And we don't have we don't have any evidence of of a standard text
being around, right? There's no there's no standard text that both of them could have gotten from,
at least as far as we can tell. And I think we can tell pretty well, we have, you know, a lot of
data by now. So even then, it's like, where like, like, for me, the only obvious authority
for for this insertion to be there is someone who could have said, this is the revelation that
Muhammad had is not necessarily only Muhammad who could have done that. There's other people who
could have done that too. But but how how do you how do you convince people that that that is what
Muhammad said? And you know, there's this anti Christian thing in there. And it's like, it's
it's not like, I mean, the Quran is anti-trinitarian all throughout. You know, it's not it's not just
dispassage. Dispassage is kind of striking because of of Mariam. But you could you could, you know,
if we start fantasizing, and this is pure pure speculation, but let's say that, you know,
sure that Mariam was not originally Muhammad's composition. Maybe it was a Christian text.
And Muhammad was like, Well, you know, I like a lot about this text. This is great. It tells the
story about about about Jesus and how he was born and everything. And you know, there's clear
interactions with with Christian texts that we know. But but I don't like the stuff where he's
the son of God. So let me let me put in, you know, a little bit to make sure that everybody
understands that he's not the son of God. That's a very reasonable way of understanding this
disinsertion. Of course, then you have to assume that there was a pre-Muhammadan version of the
surah, which we don't have any evidence for, but we know we're speculating right now. I don't think
that's a crazy solution to the problem. As far as the data goes, though, putting it simply,
whatever your position is, and really, it's it's okay to still have a question mark at the end
of the day, because no one really knows at the end of the day. But as far as data and evidence goes,
we can at least say for sure that it was something already in there by Palimpsest,
which is pre-Uthmanic, which means this could be a decade after the Prophet. We don't know. We
don't know. So so really, I say this just to give people the benefit of the doubt. Let's just say
this stuff goes back to the Prophet. I mean, I'm not saying we know that it does, but but nobody
knows that there are people who take on faith and they trust the tradition. So they believe that,
but it's like, we at least say this is early material. This is for sure early enough.
Really early material. And it's really, it's really quite difficult to to to come up with a
scenario how these two different text types would have had it without prophetic authority.
You can think of ways you have to think about it. And it's not it's not reasonable to come up with
something if you come up with a compelling story to do it. But it's not an easy story to tell.
It actually takes some time to think how do you how do you do this? So you mean out of the two
interpolations that you gave? I would I would be inclined to so I would be inclined in both cases
to say that they're prophetic interpolations. Okay, I think I think this happens quite a bit
throughout the Quran. I mean, I took some really salient examples. But the Quran, the tradition
tells us that there were prophetic interpolations that that at later times the Prophet would say,
well, no, insert this little bit into the text again, please. And memorize it that way. And it's
like, okay, do we need to take this seriously? I don't know. But but it makes sense. And every now
and then you get these kinds of these are quite close to in some ways exegetical glosses, they're
sometimes explaining like things that are not quite clear or sometimes making a bit more clear
what may have been subtext before this. I mean, sort of money doesn't call Jesus, Son of God,
and like it barges in as like, no, don't don't do this. No, it's just it's just no, it just makes
sure that there's absolutely no doubt about this. So if you know, if you would ask me, I think probably
a prophetic insertion, if that, you know, especially with sort of volume, I think it's
perfectly reasonable to think that this is actually just part of the style. And it's,
you know, deliberately taking a different rhyme. And, you know, most, most things that look like
insertions actually don't break the rhyme. That's a good way of doing an insertion. Nobody will
notice if you keep the rhyme, right? So the fact that it is actually not doing the rhyme, which
with other things that we've identified as possible, insertions, like the first one that we saw.
It's like, it's actually a bit too obvious, too obvious to the point, it's like, well, no,
it may have been on purpose, and maybe a stylistic choice to break the rhyme here.
That's kind of what I'm thinking, but I don't know. Other people have come to other conclusions,
but other people have really wanted to see this as a post-Athmanic insertion. And that
is impossible. I just know. So that is what I like about what you're saying today. Like,
you have an opinion, but you also have the fact, and the fact is it cannot be post-Athmanic.
And in the Merriam case, it can't be post-Palimpsest. I mean, like this is before Uthman. So it's
pretty red flags to me. I like what you're saying. It could be a prophetic interpolation, which would
simply be, you know, tradition has it that Muhammad is inserting things himself later on,
saying, hey, no, no, no, we need to add this in there, which raises different questions that I
don't think academics care about. It's not in our field. It's more about the modern like,
this was directly from heaven. What are you talking about? There's a whole bunch of theological
issues we don't want to address. It's not my aim. At the end of the day, I'm Scooby-Doo. I kind of
already use a naturalistic methodology when I'm approaching this. So I'm not really concerned
about the whole, is this divine, is it miraculous, whatever. As far as the question goes, though,
this opens up different questions that are possible. And now this question I have as we're
exiting out of this episode, I must ask, are there any interpolations that you have found
that seem to be not explainable other than they have to be or most likely are actual interpolations
after that we would say is not palimpsest, but you see what I'm saying that might be
post-Euthmonic. Is there anything that we know that might have?
No, not really. So it depends on what you call an interpolation. So anything that you get excited
about, no. Right. That's the thing I want to get everybody aware of. So really no. Now what you
can see, and you can call this interpolations in a way, is that there are some spelling reforms
that happen. So at some point, like let's say the second century, I think, some manuscripts
start really changing, well, really changing, somewhat changing the spelling of the Quran.
And so they start writing some words a little differently. Almost without fail, they become
less ambiguous. So places where some words could have been read in two ways, now you can only be
done in one way. So there's that, and there's one verse, but I think actually what we have in
the standard text today is the original, but there's one verse in Suda 86 or something like that.
Anyway, in my critical edition that I'm working on on my Patreon, so you can check it out,
there's one verse where actually like five different manuscripts have a spelling that is
different from what the standard text has today. And that's a lot. Like, you know, I'm looking at like
eight different manuscripts there, there's like five, they're doing something differently.
There's something going on there. It doesn't have any effect on the meaning whatsoever. So it's,
you know, it's not interesting in that sense. Interesting to me as a linguist, but I'm not
sure how interesting it is historically. I mean, it's historically for the history of the text is
interesting. It's not very interesting for the meaning of the text. But there's one. But so,
and so there's a couple of these things and you have to look through the whole text to really
find something, but none of this, none of these, these like, you know, whole verses being added
or we're talking about like tiny things and not even whole words being that we're talking about
like tiny things. Just today I found like one verse where all of a sudden there was an extra
word in one manuscript, but it's only one manuscript. And that hardly ever happens. Like,
that was a remarkable moment. And then someone else came along and was like, well,
you know, the exact same verse is somewhere else in the Quran. And there the word is added.
So Cleedy, which is confusing the two versions, like, yeah, that's absolutely the answer.
So that's the kind of things we see. So no, no, after Earthman, it's interesting in some ways,
but boring and others. So you don't find these kinds of insertions anymore. No.
Yeah. And that that takes away the thunder for those critics out there who want to
just really come out and try to like use a Quran as some, the way I would say is this,
you know, I come from a more critical approach. I'm looking for the human thumbprint, you know,
and these are people, right? And people are like, no, it's divine. And I get it. It's a faith
question versus a history, in my opinion, question. And just like the debate preview,
I was showing you a Bart and Mike Lacona, where I take kind of the Bart approach,
but people are going to be quite, I think, disappointed if they think they're going to
find the adult first woman example in a Quran. You're not going to find that because so early
on, they're already creating an established. This is our Bible. This is our holy text. And so
this is something very early on. And get used to it, I think is probably the best thing to say
is get used to it. I would take a different approach if I was approaching this, maybe saying,
well, where did, where did the stories, is there intertextuality? These are the kind of things
I like to look at. But you have the best thing. So indeed, if you want to, you know, want to get
into it, look at Mariam because it has lots of great intertextual stuff with Christian texts,
which I'm not qualified to talk about, but there's other scholars who do. So you should definitely
have that. So clearly, there's something going on there. So, you know, and, you know, I believe
we can go, well, obviously the same stories in there because, you know, it's the same God.
So, you know, that's where I'm getting out of it. But it's like, it's really just really striking,
striking similarities between some Christian texts from say the same period.
And what's in what's in the Quran. And that's that's cool and interesting. And
we can really learn something about it. I hope everybody goes first off
be sure to go and check out his new book. It is on real. Let me make sure I share this so
everybody could see it because I'm excited for people to tell me what they think about this.
If you can keep up with it. I mean, it's super, super scholarly. So download the PDF up here
on the top right. Make sure you guys do that. It's free. And consider joining his Patreon.
I mean, like you can private message him any questions you have. You can be a person of faith,
a person, not a faith. Like when I respect your boundaries, respect your position,
I mean, he works right with very sacred texts to to Muslims. So he is very
aware of those boundaries and respects them no matter who you are. This is someone worth
supporting because he's just a breath of fresh air on academics. He has no polemics. He's not
out here axe grinding for or against. He's going to give you the data at the end of the day.
Let's be honest with the facts. And it seems that very early on, the Quran is an established text.
Get over it. I think it's just very tough. I think people are hurting themselves. They're
looking silly, I think by trying to pretend that there's just like, no, that's not it. This is
100 years later or something. No, no, no, stop. Stop. Just stop. Okay. And just just let's start
recognizing that. Okay, because you just look kind of silly. That's my opinion.
But please go support him. And just just to add a quick thing. So I'll probably do a couple of
Twitter threads in the coming month to kind of summarize my book for the people who will be
extremely confused by what it's about. I think I think I'll do a little chapter by chapter thing.
So that's something you can look forward to. So also follow me on Twitter,
which is at PhdNix, just like my Patreon actually. So you can find me there. Or you can just type my
name, which people always mistype. So maybe it's better to do PhdNix. So be sure to check it out.
And if you're interested in what my book is about, but are very confused by all the weird
signs and linguistic stuff that's in there, I'll try to summarize it in a nice way on my Twitter.
So here's this Twitter. All of this is down in the description. So you can go and follow him on
Twitter. If you want to know something in the language, you want to look at sources, I'm telling
you he's your guy. He will be the one who can really get in there, dig in deep. And I have the
utmost respect for you, Dr. Vimpu. And I hope more people will actually go and support you. Follow
you, learn from you, because you bring up very interesting questions that make me...
You know, like I said, I feel like I'm repeating myself, but I have to. I feel
like it's necessary. Nobody's saying this as an atheist. I say this openly. I love the stories.
I love finding out like when I listen to After the Prophet, right? When I listen to the book on
Audible, and just hearing about what happened early on, it gave me a picture, even though maybe
most of that may not be guaranteed historical fact, just some of them might be a story and
legend and things like that. But with what you're making me do is you're making me want to
like open up the question in my head, all right, so this text is early on,
what was really going on? Because if this is the case, and it seems that it is,
now we need to reevaluate what was going on in early Islam. We call it Islam. It probably wasn't
called that for a while. But what was going on in Muhammad's life? What happened with Umar?
What is going on? And I want to really open up the can of apocalypticism just because that's
what helped me in Christianity kind of figure out some stuff. So I wonder if there's something more
to it. I don't know. Thank you so much. Is there any final words you'd like to tell our audience?
No, no, this was fun. It was fun to kind of go into this problem. It's something I was writing
a paper about a while ago, and then we started talking about it. I was like, oh, yeah, no, it's
fun to kind of get this weird thing. It's like, you have these interpolations and everybody's
like, it's clearly an interpolation. It's like, okay, yeah, it's a clearly an interpolation. But
I mean, what do we do with manuscripts? So, you know, and here I feel like what I'm doing
is something that can add something to the discussion. We like talking about these
interpolations, but let's talk about the facts and then talk about these interpolations. And I
think I thought it was a nice, nice way to kind of put that together. So thanks. Thanks for having
me and letting me kind of ramble about this for a little bit. It's interesting. If it is an
interpolation and it wasn't there at the Prophet, now we have to ask what other explanation and
your explanation, I think is fine. I mean, we don't know it to be the case. But if it is a
prophetic interpolation, then that would have been Muhammad himself said later, hey, insert this.
So what? We have actual companions who say or there are writings about them saying that this
is what he had done. Even one of his companions who left and forsake his movement. He says why,
but I'm giving you an analogy to point out like he admits like, no, I asked him that this would
sound better. And he says yes. And he's like, okay, and he changed it. Oh, I'm not going to be,
I'm not following you anymore. And of course, that creates problems for him in this time and age.
But yeah, there's a lot to say that that I don't see why that couldn't be the case. I don't know.
My Muslim friends probably love me right now for saying, but it's true. I mean, I have no
problem with it. It doesn't exactly. It's like, if you have a nice story to tell that Muslims
find nice, I mean, it's like, well, I mean, oh, if it's true, it's true. I mean, that's what it
comes down to. I mean, it's really, that's, that's the important thing. And that's what we should
be doing in scholarship. And sometimes that means that, you know, the Islamic history is just correct
or close to the truth or whatever. Who knows what exactly was going on? We don't know.
But, but, but we can get an okay idea. And sometimes the idea, it's pretty obvious. And
sometimes it brings all kinds of different questions with it. It would be so much easier if
this was a late interpolation. But it's not. Which makes it difficult. And which makes it
interesting. So that's why it's actually cool and nice to have this. It's so much easier too.
So it's so much nicer. So when it's interesting, we have a real different, you know, a real
headscratcher. And this is a headscratcher, both of these. And that makes them interesting.
I just, as I was leaving, I want to say to my skeptics, this doesn't, for a skeptic,
like me, this doesn't mean that, let me use Christianity's analogy to get away from the
hotspot here. It doesn't mean that this is actually perfect from God and that this is an
actual miracle. Okay, I say that as a skeptic. So for those who are like, afraid that if this
did go directly back to the Prophet, I don't know, like, think about why you would think that.
To me, that doesn't compute. To a person of faith that computes. To a person not a faith,
this simply means that what is the human explanation here? Why would they want to
standardize out the gate very early? Even with Muhammad, maybe there was a form of this that
was already kind of standard. And then, you know, they're just perfecting that standardization
over time. And Uthman is like, we got to get this figured out. I'm not playing games anymore.
Let's make sure we nip it in the butt. And they do. I mean, this is something that you should
consider. So don't take anything here to, I don't know, don't get but hurt. You know,
don't get but hurt. That's all I'm saying. So I think, like you said, facts, let's stick with
the facts. So thank you so much, Dr. Ben Putin. And until next time. Thanks for having me. Take
care. Thank you. And never forget, we are MythVision.
