Ladies and gentlemen, I've interviewed Dr. Samuel Zinner for a while now on Mithvision
and he's back.
He left Mars and now he's a little bit closer and he's on the moon.
But he'll be on Earth one day, who knows.
No, Dr. Samuel Zinner has been interviewed on my channel and he's an interesting character
because he has read and knows language, like he just learns so many languages and understands
these languages.
And today we're going to deal with intertextuality with the Quran.
Did the Quran borrow from other literature, other traditions and things and put it into
the Quran as their own tradition?
We're going to be poking into this.
We're going to hear that I'm going to also be, if you will, learning a lot from this.
Maybe I'll learn a thing or two that I didn't understand and I'll be a little tested here.
So today I have Dr. Samuel Zinner joining me.
Welcome back to Mithvision.
Thank you.
It's a pleasure to be here.
Before we even start, I already can hear people on the other side of the screen and they're
already saying, who is this guy?
He definitely doesn't look like he would know Arabic or like, who do you think you are talking
on this subject matter of intertextuality and talking about the Quran, especially in
its original languages and stuff?
Give us a little background about you as we dive into the subject.
I did my PhD at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln and studied many different topics.
Ancient languages and literatures as a basic thing, but I also studied museum administration
and archives.
I did the equivalent in coursework for a major in classical Greek, even though I didn't actually
major in it, but I did the coursework for it and wrote a series of papers on Shantoub,
which is the a Hebrew version of the Gospel of Matthew.
There's a lot of debate.
Is it ancient?
Is it medieval or later?
Is it a combination?
Whatever.
So that was a part of my Greek work as well.
So addressing the Greek Gospel of Matthew, comparing it to this very interesting, intriguing
Hebrew version.
So there's a lot of Hebrew that was involved there.
So I did Greek as well as other languages at the university, but the Hebrew, of course,
I've known since childhood.
So I was able to just do any level that was there without having to take all of the coursework
in the languages.
I already knew it.
But anyway, so museum administration, archives with history also did work in history, degrees
in history and literature, ancient and modern literature.
A lot of the history also is evolving modern holocaust, holocaust, the Jewish holocaust,
comparative genocides.
So this is why I have an interest both in the ancient literature, for instance, Jewish
literature ranging from what we call the Tanakh, the Hebrew Bible, then the rabbinic literature.
But that ties in too, I think, my interest in New Testament studies, because that is
relevant for the whole question of anti-Semitism and holocaust studies, there are different
ways to qualify that and interpret what is what, and we talk about anti-Judaism, anti-Semitism.
But in any case, that's why I've studied both the Hebrew Bible, then I did a lot of coursework
in the Greek and in New Testament history and theology, and then holocaust.
So it's sort of, you see the line there, but as far as ancient literature, I'd been obsessed
with ancient literature since I was young, as I said, in Hebrew, since I was young,
started studying Greek and Latin when I was, I think, 11 years old, and then so did heavy
coursework in classics, even though I didn't major in it at the university, but I did enough
to probably get some kind of degree out of it, and had a wonderful time at the University of
Nebraska at Lincoln, that's where John Turner was teaching, one of the world's greatest authorities
as scholars on the Nakamari library, Gnosticism, and used to speak with him and others at what
we call the Seneca table every Friday night at a local bar eating popcorn and other things like
that, talking about Homer, Gnosticism, or what have you, among all the students in classics.
Anyway, so that's a little bit of who I am. So where does Arabic and the Quran come into play
for you? Because we're going to be discussing that particularly. I understand if you were
looking at history, especially if you're into Christianity and Judaism and the history that
goes down throughout church history of anti-Semitism, you cannot miss the Islamic history. You cannot,
if you're really wanting to understand and get a grasp, like you're going to bump into it,
especially by the 7th century, when you have Hercules, and you know, there's this Christian
dilemma of who this prophet figure is that's coming on the scene. So I can only imagine you
found interest in this, but just a little tease on this. Do you know Arabic really well? And you
lived in Morocco, you said for 10 years? I lived there for a decade. But any historian or expert
in literature who has spent their life basically studying the Hebrew Bible, and then based on
that in the New Testament studies, eventually the issue or the topic of Islam and the Quran,
all of these are going to come up because this constitutes the third of the so-called Abrahamic
religions. And if you're really interested in Judaism and early Christianity, the next logical
step historically viewed is Islam. And Islam, of course, the origins of Islam are
imbricated within the Jewish and Christian communities of the Arabian Peninsula. And so if
you ignore Islam, ignore the Quran, you're actually ignoring a big chapter in the whole
subject of Judaism and Christianity. Right, right. So you figured you've learned the Arabic
language, which the people who are watching this probably aren't remembering, but you have like,
I don't know, 10 or 11 languages you've learned. It's, you just kind of, you're one of those people
who can really quickly figure out how language works and get into it. But you know this pretty
well on the inside out. And I contacted, you contacted me and I said, is there any way we
could talk about intertextuality? And I must openly say upfront what my motivation is. I'm very open
about this. I'm biased. I'm someone who thinks that all of these things are manmade. You can have
a different ontological approach, but at the end of the day, facts are facts and I want to look at
the data. And to me, I find it fascinating how people at different periods are using previous
literature and maybe rewriting it or giving it its own spend sometimes, not always, but intertextuality
really mesmerizes me because this is what happened when I was looking at the Genesis
account and then saw Mesopotamian literature be utilized for the flood and the creation narrative.
As a fundamentalist Christian, that'll shatter that bubble you create in traditional thinking.
But at the end of the day, it just made my awe and my wonder even more for this literature.
People are trying to say to me, there is no intertextuality when it comes to the Quran.
They're probably extremely strict fundamentalists that are saying this, but in my mind, I'm going,
no, I find more beauty in finding out how they did these things. So today we have you bringing
the heat and I know I'm going to learn some things I've never learned, but can you take us into this
somehow? Well, I would first comment on your little autobiography there. Fundamentalist
Christians who at some point when I see the evidence, for instance, the Gilgamesh epic,
elements of it are parallel to it, have been incorporated into the Genesis
account of creation and then the day loops or the flood of Noah. If a fundamentalist becomes
convinced that this is the case, it can really have a faith shattering effect. On the other hand,
I think maybe 90 percent of Christianity, which are the higher churches, Protestants
and Catholic and Orthodox, this is sort of just stuff you learn in seminary or in graduate school.
So it's not a shattering at all. It's just the paradigm is there. It's been in place that
this is not incompatible with the basic higher churches, the Protestant and Catholic Orthodox
churches. Theology of inspiration is compatible with the incorporation of non-Jewish, non-Christian
stories. So there's no problem at all there. Even though oftentimes, and I'm not speaking
for history, because we can go into like the Byzantine church and maybe see like Dennis
McDonald talks about this eclectic mimicism from Greek literature, which I find fascinating.
But today, even these higher churches aren't really recognizing that type of a memetic connection.
I just want to make the point when we go to the Quran, because it's a big taboo for a lot of
people on the Internet. Oh, don't do that. Don't do this. They're approached to this.
There may need to be a more mature approach. Don't create a house of cards for yourself.
If you're wanting to maintain, it's kind of like, don't hold to a ridiculous claim if this is just
me speaking, right? Don't pretend there's no connection to the epic of Gogamesh and the Genesis
narrative. The approach is they're going to ignore it and, oh, nope, the Bible is before that and
that borrowed from the Bible or whatever they try to do to gymnastics it. If the evidence points
to something, I want to be consistent with it. At the end of the day, this shouldn't necessarily
destroy one's ontological approach. So it just should strengthen the view you have of your tradition
not to be so house of cards developing fundamentalist approach. That's just my opinion.
Again, that's a problem. The fundamentalists and most evangelical Christians will have.
I would say the solution to that is to educate themselves in the type of biblical criticism
that is taught in the higher liturgical churches, proselytism, Catholicism, and Eastern Orthodoxy,
where these things just are not an issue. Even some quote-unquote influence from Homer,
so what? What's the problem? This is well-recognized. For instance, I know in Catholic
biblical scholarship, the Book of Tobit, this is one of the books of the so-called Old Testament,
that it's in the Catholic and in the Orthodox canon, but not in the Protestant canon. It's
reserved for what Luther started the trend. We'll put it in this middle, in between this
so-called Old Testament, New Testament, called the Apocrypha. So one of these apocrypha books,
the Book of Tobit, has a story about this nice little dog and his happiness, wags its tail,
and everyone in the seminaries will teach you. Of course, this is an influence, this is an echo
of the Odyssey, Odysseus' dog. So this is an issue among fundamentalists and evangelicals.
They just need to read and educate themselves in more modern biblical criticism, which has
been able to adjust the theology with the increase in scientific knowledge, for instance,
enlightenment or the Renaissance. But I know there's analogies there, but it breaks down
to a certain extent now when we bring Islam into the picture. We're dealing with a different
chronology. It's a younger religion historically viewed. It's not too millennial old yet. So it
took time for Judaism, it took time for Christianity to develop the theology and the modern
biblical criticism and make it compatible with the quote unquote faith. Anyway, that's my...
Yeah, so this is a primer to intertextuality with the Quran. Take us in. What would be the
first example? You have to keep in mind, too, my own background. I've done a lot of not only
scholarly work of also, well, I mean, as far as biblical criticism, historical, but I've also
written a lot of theology, right? Because I am concerned, my whole life I've been concerned
about the humanism and improving relations between Jews and Christians and Muslims and other people
call people of good will. So I've participated in conferences throughout the Middle East,
North Africa, and Egypt and all this. For many years, I've published theology. I've tried to
develop a feminist paradigm for what we call column or Islamic theology, just someone who
interprets the Quran historically. There are a lot of things that could be done and that are
similar catching on, actually, right? And maybe some good will come of it. Now, I've also produced
this or formulated this paradigm. Now, for the pious Muslim, when they read the Quran or when
they consider the Quran, these are not the words of the prophet of Islam. These are the words of
God. That's the theology. Now, if we find so-called intertextuality in the Quran, for instance,
the Quran, there's a passage that sounds like something from the Hebrew Bible or the New Testament
or the New Testament apocrypha or the Christian or the Jewish liturgy, for instance, or even
Zoroastrianism, which Zoroastrians are mentioned in the Quran, we can look at it two ways.
The Islamic theology is able to deal with this. There are two ways. One way is you could say,
all right, we could just stick with what the Quran is portraying here. Or apart from the theology,
this text is portraying God as citing from the Hebrew Bible, for instance. In one section of
the Quran, as I'm sure you know, God is speaking. And he talks about, as David, before or after the
Torah, and I'm paraphrasing after the Torah, David wrote in the Psalms, my right,
his servants shall inherit the earth. So there, the text is showing God quoting his own holy book,
one of his former or earlier sacred inspired books. So the Muslim will take this literally
and say, well, right, this is what's happening. God is citing one of his earlier books. So this
is what I call a divine echo. Now the Python Muslim is going to take that literally, it's
literally a divine echo. God is quoting one of his former scriptures. Now a scholar can accept this
rubric as well, this terminology of divine echo, because all it means is, all right, now we take
the text of the Quran and just as a literary text, it is portraying, what is it portraying as a
literary text, you don't have to have any faith or anything, just look at it as a historian,
person of faith, an agnostic or an atheist, everyone has to agree that this is a text that
is portraying God, echoing previous scriptures that he inspired, right. So divine echo can be
taken either, right, in that sense, or in that sense that a pious Muslim would take it. So that's
how I generally speak of this issue. All right, so this part of the Quran, we have a divine echo,
or I just usually just an echo, right, of this or that passage from whatever book, Jewish,
Christian or whatever, right. And so that's the way I think you can include pious Muslims
in this kind of topic. There's no doubt, right, that there are passages in the Quran where God
is portrayed as literally citing earlier scriptures, right, that he has, now what is,
what, there is a parallel to this that we know straight away from, right. If you study Indian
Judaism, right, in the rabbinical literature, starting in the Talmud, right. So the Talmud,
right, the Mishnah, and it portrays God as studying, reading, studying his own Torah,
yeah, and even the Mishnah, right, and then God prays, right. He don't, where's it sits it,
right. So, right, he dons the phylactery, right. And so this is exactly what we're seeing in the
Quran. And as you know, the Quran actually cites the Talmud, right. It doesn't say it's citing
the Talmud, like the other passage says that God is citing the Psalms of David, right. There is a,
there's more than, there's a famous passage, right, that is quoted from the Mishnah, right,
and that is that whoever kills one person, it's as if they've killed the entire world,
whoever saves one person, one life, it's as if they've saved the entire world, right. So,
but there are other passages that have been overlooked, right. So there's a divine saying
in the Quran that God has prescribed, or literally written, but it really means,
God has prescribed mercy for himself. Now, this also comes from the Talmud,
actually comes from the Trakatek Barakot, right. I think it's Folio 7a, if my memory serving me.
But so there's more, that's been overlooked by and large, right. And so this is what we have in
Judaism as well, right. So it's not surprising because this is congruent. Now, another way to
look at this, just from a theological viewpoint, which also makes psychological sense, right,
from a scholarly viewpoint is, all right. So you have this text, God is speaking to what's
called the people of the book, it's usually rendered, but that's really means the adherence
to the earlier scriptures or the earlier revelations, right, that's mainly the Christians
and the Jews, right. So if God, all right, so if God has a new revelation, and it's in Arabic,
and, right, who wants to convince Jews and Christians of this new message, how is he going
to convince them? How is he going to get to their heart unless he uses the phrases, the idioms,
that generational use, right, has made dear, right, to the Jewish Christians, right. So it would be
odd if we did, if the Quran were not full of these, these, of this intertextuality of these
echoes of liturgical phrases, and biblical phrases, for instance, and Talmudic or Mishnahic
teachings, right. So again, that makes perfect sense. And actually, to argue that, right, that's
not taking place is, it makes no sense theologically even, right. That's just bad theology.
Yeah, you're running into a wall. So that's a great point. And in a like the way you approached
this, you gently edged in using the pious Muslim approach. And I respect that, even though I would
personally say this is human, right. And I just said that out loud. I mean, like, my channel's a
skeptic channel, right. So like, I want people to see things they've never seen. And the way you
approached it was so gentle and kind and respectful, that any Muslim watching this can respect that,
even though I want the Muslim to know for me, like, these men who are writing this are super
clever. You know, they recognize this, it's common sense that someone would want to do that if you're
going to convince your audience. So I like, I use this analogy, and I'll shut up, I'd love to hear
more intertextuality is, I like to watch Scooby-Doo, you know, when I was a kid. And you always think
it's a ghost, a demon, a god, or the angel, or whatever. And then you find out you pull the
mask off and there was a guy behind the mask the whole time, or someone that was doing it.
Personally, I think this goes for all of these. These men are clever. It doesn't mean that there
isn't practicality, or there's some truth there that is applicable to the world they live in,
and sometimes is applicable to the world we live in today. Sometimes these are just kind of
wisdoms that are echoed throughout all mankind's history that we all experience and we all can
learn from. So I like to try and be as respectful at the same time, use that kind of critical
approach. Please continue, though, I'm loving this. What else would you say there's?
Well, to wrap up, maybe the theology background of all of this with the theological setting,
the possible theological setting here, is already also held in Islam, just as you have in Judaism,
Christianity, right, these very weighty trajectories of esoteric doctrine, esoteric
practice. So Sufism, for instance, in Islam, you have Kabbalah and other types of esotericism
and mysticism in Judaism, for instance. There, you will find that even the dyad or binary
of atheism and theism begins to break down because the core message of mysticism,
especially monotheism, but it goes beyond the monotheistic paradigms as well. But I think the
core mystical message is that any thought, and the Quran sort of has this message, but in different
words, any thought that the human mind can have about God is an idol, because God is so beyond
anything that human mind can conceive, therefore God ends up being the pure nothingness. So rather
than the fullness of being, God is nothing. In Kabbalah, this is called Ain Sof, which literally
means without end. Now that would tend to be, literally that means, of course, what? Infinity,
which seems to mean everything. But the Kabbalahs really turn that on his head. And what they mean
by it actually is the infinite nothing. That's what God ultimately is, the infinite nothing.
Because if it's beyond anything that the human mind can handle, given the fact that we are
bodily creatures with a mind that is somatic, it's this lump of gray matter,
like a rat, we're going to have cognitive limits. There will be certain topics that we will never
be able to understand. Just like a rat can only navigate a labyrinth and make maybe three right
turns at most. You cannot teach them to go beyond that. They would have to turn into a higher species
in order to handle a heavier cognitive load. So in the same way, there are certain concepts
who are never going to be able to wrap our heads around. And if God is one of these concepts,
then this is the message of mysticism and Judaism, and I think Islam as well. There is no
concept we can have that actually accords with whatever this divine reality would be,
or divine irreality. And so every thought we do have of God is an idol. It's in Islam,
we call it shirk, associating something with God. So instead of associating a different
God with God, your ideas of God become these idols. And so the Sufis, some of the Sufis have
this tradition where you have what's called the shahada, the profession of Islamic faith.
There is no God but God. That's the first part of it. And so they say, what do you do? You
start at the end of that sentence and you start erasing it letter by letter. And what do you end
up with? The first word, la, that's the negation. No, there is not. So the affirmation, there is no
God, but God becomes a negation, because ultimately God is beyond anything we can think. And if we
think anything about God, it's idolatry. So we just, God has to be ultimately this divine
nothingness. And so the whole dyad of atheism and theism, the mystical currents in Judaism and
Islam really in the end show you that this is somewhat artificial. And of course, you could
write reams on how to qualify that, of course, because there are many different definitions
to atheism. But there is this continuity that connects atheism with what we call apophatic
theology. And that's the via negativa. You broke up called what? The apophatic theology. And what
that means is it's the also Latin would be called the via negativa. That's theology, which says,
you know, there's nothing that we can say about God positively. We can't always, we cannot say
what God is. We can only say what God is not. Because God is this nothing. So what can you
really say about it? Anyway, that's why some of these Sufis also, right, got martyred, right,
for some of these teachings, like a language saying, I am basic, I'm the truth, I'm the reality,
basically, I'm God. Why? Because in Islam, in Sufism, as well as Kabbalah and Judaism,
one of the core teachings is that there is nothing that exists but God.
Right. And this actually, you know, is borrowed from 1st and Judaism from the book of Deuteronomy.
So like God says, in heaven and earth, there is nothing, right, but me. Right. So this is,
it turns from monotheism, the belief of one God, to what we call monism. Everything is God.
Right. And so if everything is God, and of course, that has to be qualified as well,
there are different ways that the mystics qualify this. But anyway, so, but that's a heavy,
heavily authorized teaching in Sufism. Oh, yeah, everything is God. Right. So, right. Halah said,
I am God and, you know, I've got crucified. Right. But that's, that teaching endures,
and it's part of Jewish mysticism this day, the Chabad movement, that's the core teaching of Chabad,
this what we could call monism. Right. So everything is God, the stone, right, on the ground.
And so it's sort of a pen and theism. Right. Right. Right. All right. So, but I mean,
you know, what's the difference between that and a lot of people's atheism? A lot of people's
atheism would actually be compatible. Right. This, this mystical mentality. So we might be
dealing with a false dyad. But apart from that, all right, that's the theological way to deal with
a lot of this stuff. So here, put me back on track. What do you want? No, no, no, no, that,
I love that. No, I'm glad you, I'm glad you did that because just make one comment that I want
to get into intertextuality is simply put, I mean, if all we know and perceive is the natural world
that we can actually understand, technically, I could see no problem with someone wanting to hold
to that kind of ontological position. I mean, there are things we don't understand. And,
and, you know, when people argue philosophically, they run into a wall and they just have to use
the term brute fact. Well, that brute fact itself that we run into could technically be what they're
trying to kind of describe in a sense. And that's why it is, it's a pretty deep philosophical thinking
process there. And I know a lot of people who converted from atheism to, well, not a lot,
I just know a couple on the internet, but like they've told me the philosophy behind it is what
convinced them to become Muslim. And for me, there's too many other things that, that caused
me to go, well, I wouldn't need to practice this religion for me to come to this conclusion. If
at the end of the day, theism or some monism or pan in theism, et cetera, makes the most sense to me,
I wouldn't need to technically go into that. You get where I'm going. So, so I do think it's
interesting though, to like consider that. Now, if, if, did you want to comment on that before
I take it? Yeah, from a Jewish perspective, right? No one has to convert to Judaism to be
our God or to be quote unquote saved, right? It's not the teaching of Judaism, right? Non-Jews,
right, have can have a covenant was called the Nochai covenant, right? And actually,
the Quran really has basically the same teaching, although current, a lot of current forms of
Islamic will be called Kalam or theology, right, seems to imply this, right? You got to be Muslim,
you were up with God, it's a final revelation, et cetera, et cetera. On the other hand, if you
look at the Quran, that's the message of the Quran is, is plain. God has given every nation
their own religion. Right? And so this concept that, oh, it'd be wonderful that the whole world
become Muslim, this is anti-Quranic. I was going to say, Deuteronomy does something like this,
the sons of God that are given ownership of the nations, the table of nations,
seems to indicate that as well. And at some point, it seems the prophetic teachers
finally come on the scene and go, you guys led the nations astray, all you sons of God.
We see this in Psalms 80, I can't remember, you know what I'm talking about. But yeah,
I think there's some type of tradition here. There's even the idea of Francesco Strava Capullo
wrote a book called God and Anatomy. I'm looking forward to reading that soon. The whole point
is that God has a body, like a literal physical body. And if God has a literal physical body,
Hebrew Bible wise, and of course, philosophy develops later, and people want to put God
outside of space and time and all that today. But the literature indicates he had a body,
has a mind, he has hands, he even has a phallus, if you will, or if I can use the term penis,
he had a wife, all of these things. And there's even arguments I hear in the Islamic traditions
going back where some people know he does have a body and then others saying,
as you would describe, no, nothing, don't even try to comprehend.
Right, there was objections. Because some people wanted to say, right, well,
when the Quran talks about the hand of God, this is a metaphor. And then the objection was,
how do you, what right do you have to say that's a metaphor? And then how can you
determine what in the Quran is a metaphor and what is not, right?
Right. It's a good question.
These debates also occurred in Judaism as well. One of the main authorities in Judaism,
of course, Maimonides, famous 13 articles of faith, which you'll find in any Jewish prayer
book, the cedar, you have to believe these things to be a good Jew. But on the other hand,
those were written when Maimonides was quite young. When he was older, he actually
developed a theology of inspiration. So while the Torah has a higher degree of inspiration,
then the ketadim or the nevim, then the writings of the prophets. So the first five books of
the Hebrew Bible. Now, according to Maimonides, Moses asked God, this is going to lead up into
our first example of intertextuality in the Quran. But Moses asked God, well, let me see you.
And God says, you can't see me face to face. No person can see me face to face and live.
I'll let you see my back. Now, Maimonides explains that the back of God is a symbol
for creation, because that's all we can know. That's all we can know. So that's what that means.
But what is really revolutionary about this is that now a lot of Jews will be shocked by this,
but all you got to do is really sit down and read the guide to the perplexed by Maimonides.
He's very clear about this. The inspiration of the Torah is the summit of inspiration because
Moses was able to reach this degree of insight. So what it comes down to is that again,
the revelation from God as an inspiration and the ability of the human mind to discover divine
truth, that distinction really, again, becomes artificial. So it's a very naturalistic doctrine
of inspiration that Maimonides ends up with. Interesting. And it fits hand and glove with
Greco-Roman natural law. Plug it into Sufism, concepts of Sufism as well. And eventually,
this could be used to broaden the theological approach. When was Maimonides writing?
It's the Middle Ages. I just kind of want to know, because I know that
different interpretations and different periods kind of reflect different meaning.
And so I just kind of wanted to know, I've heard the name and I was like, hold on, when did you
write this? He's leading up in influence like Thomas Aquinas in Catholicism. So it's like
he's benefiting from the work of Aristotle. This is what this is developing out of. So of
course, as you know, the Islamic philosophers at that general time were doing the same thing,
grappling with Aristotle, developing the synthesis between Aristotle, Plato, of course, as well.
So Aristotelian philosophy and also Neoplatonic philosophy, integrating it in column or Islamic
theology. So Maimonides was a part of that as well, living in Arabic culture also. So of
course, he's writing in Arabic as well. Awesome. Awesome. Okay. So we'll get to our first example
of intertextuality and I'll go ahead and pop this up and let everybody see. I see Exodus 34-6 here.
That's right. Now, the point I'm making here is, all right, everyone knows, right, there are parallels
in the Koran to the Bible, the Hebrew Bible or the New Testament. But the question in scholarship
today is, all right, so this could be explained just natural, if you look at it, naturalistic,
right? Just as from a scholarly viewpoint, a story in this viewpoint, because that, well, this
could be because the prophet had heard homilies, right, where scripture was quoted,
and he had, as a businessman, he had no doubt conversations with Jews, Christians, Pagan,
Zoroastrians, right? Right. So, you know, you're going to hear verses or phrases, you're going to
pick them up, you're going to memorize phrases, sometimes even maybe a verse, right, from the
liturgy, from the Bible. Right. But most scholars would say, yeah, but there's really no evidence
in the Koran for an extended quotation from the Bible. So, most would say, well, yeah, there's
really no quotation going on up the Bible in the Koran because of this, only like little phrases.
And even the Psalm line that is quoted that I mentioned that, you know, my righteous servants
will inherit the earth, right? It's very short, right? So, you could hear that. Romulan, remember
it. There's a major flaw with that, and it can be falsified rather easily, right? And that is,
that, for instance, you could take the early second century Syriac collection
of hymns known as the Odes of Solomon, Syriac, Christian Aramaic, basically, which I spent
a lot of this year translating. But my point is that all scholars recognize that the
author or the composer of the Odes of Solomon was well versed in the Hebrew Bible.
But he never quotes anything at length. He never quotes an entire sentence. So, scholars endlessly
debate, all right, this line in the Odes, is it from Psalm 13 or Exodus 15? No one would agree
because why? Because everything is being, and this is the general rule. Like John Carpenter,
New Testament scholars pointed this out in a lot of his recent publications. In the ancient world
and literature, the rule is memesis. The rule is paraphrase. You do not quote a previous
scripture at length, except in a very specific, in a very specific type of genre, right? Like
theological writings or something. But in letters and homilies, you don't quote at length. You
summarize, you paraphrase. And so this is exactly what we find throughout the Qur'an. It's totally
consistent with ancient Greco-Roman literature, pagan or Christian, and also Jewish literature at
the time, right? You just, you echo, you hint at biblical passages or liturgical passages,
liturgical phrases. So, the fact that there are no extended quotations of scripture in the Qur'an
is no argument against the fact, just from historical perspective, right, that the prophet
had, was not familiar with extended passages, but only with these short phrases, right? So,
just from historian, you have to test it, right? Yeah, but is there any evidence in the Qur'an
where we could see that, right, whether it's God or the prophet, right, depending on your,
if you're a price Muslim or you just want to look at this historically and naturalistically,
is there any evidence of the Qur'an that shows more than a familiarity with just more than these
short phrases, right? And now, I think, I think there is, right? And the first one here has to do
with what we call, it is somewhat, what is called a basmalah, right? That's a term for
this, this four-word phrase that opens every sorrow in the Qur'an, with the exception of sorrow,
nine, right? And is Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem, right? In the name of God, the merciful, the
compassionate, right? So, you'll find this everywhere. Now, it is actually the first, this,
it is not counted as a verse, it's just like the phrase that's put before verse one of each surah.
Okay. But in the first surah, which is called Surah Fatiha, the opening or the prelude,
the basmalah is actually counted as verse one. And this is done in order to make sure that
surah one has a total of seven verses, right? This is symbolic number seven.
Now, scholars have long pointed out that the basmalah, right? In the name of God,
the merciful, the compassionate, is based on this passage in Exodus 346, right? But
it's usually overlooked. I haven't found a single reference yet in the scholarly liturgy,
the fact that the basmalah is also echoing verse five and not only verse six. So, I'll
go through this and point out to you where I'm getting at here, why this shows that this is,
this is reflecting minute, right, intricate knowledge of the Hebrew text of Exodus 30,
letter for letter. Now, okay, let me explain what I'm talking about.
First of all, all right, let's read this. This is the 1917 Jewish Publication Society translation,
which I sort of prefer over the revision, right? I like older English literature,
like Shakespeare and stuff like that. All right. And the Lord descended in the cloud
and stood with Moses there and proclaimed the name of the Lord, right? And the Lord passed by
before him and proclaimed the Lord, the Lord, God, merciful and gracious, long suffering
abundant in goodness and truth. Wow. In verse six, right, so we have, this is very odd, right?
Did you catch how it is? God is telling Moses, look, I'm going to appear to you and I, God,
am going to pronounce Yodhe Vahe, right, the name of God. So why would God appear and, you know,
and say his own name? So this is very deep, right? Anyway, so the Lord passed by before him and
proclaimed, by Yikra, the Lord, Yodhe Vahe, Yodhe Vahe, El, right? Rakhum v'channon, right? So
the Lord, the Lord, God, merciful and gracious, right? So this is recognized by the most critical
scholars, right, that the Bosmala is an echo of this. Now, what's interesting about that is,
let's see here, I'll take this down a little bit. This crucial phrase, right, in the Hebrew
text, there are 19 letters in this, Yodhe Vahe, Yodhe Vahe, El, Rakhum v'channon, 19 letters. Now,
the Bosmala, which is echoing this, also has 19 letters in Arabic. And what I've done here is,
I've separated the 19 letters in, and the four words, right, the four words are separated with
the forward slash bars, right? Right, right. And I've separated the Arabic letters for those who
don't read Arabic, right? And to show you, right, you can count those yourself. There are 19 letters,
there are three, plus four, plus six, plus six, right? So there are also 19 letters, exactly 19
letters, right, in this echo of a Hebrew text, which also contains exactly 19 letters. Now,
this table, let's go down to this table here. On the right side, I have the Bosmala, here,
the letters are joined, right? So at the top, you have Bismillah, right? So in the name of God,
right? Now, if you go back to Exodus 34, verse five, which you see on the left, where God tells
Moses, I'm going to appear to you and say or utter or declare Yod-e-Vahe, right, the name.
Right. So in Hebrew, you see what it is, it's Vashem Adonai, or Vashem Yod-e-Vahe. Now, what's
interesting is, right, if you know Hebrew, the Hebrew word for name is Shem, right? But here,
the Hebrew text has the letter bait before the Shem, it's joined to the Shem. So you pronounce it
this Shem, but you don't translate. That's usually considered, you know, that's a preposition,
so it means in or with, right? But this is an idiomatic use, which you do not translate, right?
So when you render this into English, you don't say, right, God's not saying I'm going to appear
before you and call upon the name of the Lord or in the name of the Lord or with the name of the
Lord. You don't translate it, right? But the thing is, so this is exactly what you see in the
basmala on the right, right? It's Bismillah, right? So the letters are, let's just put it into English
in Arabic, it's B-S-M, right? And that's exactly what you have on the left side there in Hebrew,
B-S-M. And then you have Allah on the right and then Yod-e-Vahe, right? And
all right. Now, to wrap this example up, we have to go to Sura 96, all right. Because this is also
echoing, in fact, it's just quoting, right? It's a divine echo, if you will, of this same verse,
actually it's 34-5, where if you go back up there, I'll show it to you in Hebrew, right? God
proclaimed, vaikra, right? Proclaimed the name of the Lord, right? Vaikra. Now look at this,
in Sura 96 opens, right? So say or utter the name of your Lord. Here, again, the Ba,
which corresponds to bait in Hebrew, the Ba is not to be translated. And a lot of
Koran scholars wrongly translate this as pronounced in the name of your Lord, but that's not what
it means. It just says, pronounce the name of your Lord. But ikra, right, is this is cognate with
the Hebrew, right, word that with the verb that we find in Exodus 34-5. Vaikra, the Shem Yod-e-Vahe,
right? The only difference is that there's a conjunctive vah or wow, right? Wa, before the
verb proclaim, right? So that's missing in Sura 96-1. It starts say, it's the imperative, say
the name of your Lord, right? So what we have there, right, is the basmala is a divine echo,
right? You can view that theologically or just literally, but it's a divine echo of this passage
from the Torah, right? Which has 19 letters in Hebrew and the Arabic echo, lo and behold,
has exactly 19 letters. Now this is not the only example, right, that we can supply,
but this is the first example, right, illustrating this point that this is showing
a more intimate knowledge of the Hebrew Bible than just having heard stock phrases from the
Bible, from famous Bible verses and homilies or conversations with merchants, who may have been
Jews or Christians, right? This is much, much more intimate, right? This is letter for letter,
right? 19 letters in the Hebrew text, 19 letters in the Arabic echo of that passage.
I lost you for like five seconds there, sorry. This is much more, you were saying, than just...
This is much more than just knowledge of stock phrases from the Hebrew Bible, from homilies
or conversations with merchants, right? This is an intimate knowledge of the Hebrew text,
right, of Exodus 34, 5 and 6, right? And let me point out something very quickly. Well,
first of all, let me ask you, do you have any questions or comments? And what are exceptions?
To me, it just sounds like there's some serious rabbis in his corner.
Sounds like this guy's really fond of Judaism to some extent.
The Quran says it claims, right, in the name of God, the Quran is a confirmation, right, of
Judaism and Christianity. Right, so theologically viewed, you know, from an Islamic perspective,
this should not cause any concern. Right, right. I'm just saying the tradition that some say he...
Well, a lot of people say he was an emergent, number one. A lot of them want to argue he was
just a shepherd. They want to argue that he didn't learn any of this stuff from any previous
literature, so it's all directed from Gabriel. And that House of Cards is the problem I'm trying
to point out. It sounds like there's a rabbi in this corner. He learned it from somewhere,
and that's just me personally saying enough they can say, no, it was divine. It was given to him by
Angel Gabriel. Okay, that's fine. If you want to believe that, that's okay. I'm not... Whatever.
For me, for everyone to draw their own conclusion, all I'm pointing out is...
The data. Yeah, what I'm pointing out is I'm trying to correct a scholarly prejudice out there,
scholarly consensus, which is just incorrect, which is that the Quran never... Whoever wrote
the Quran was really not... Had never... Had not read the Hebrew Bible. Right. So, theologically,
in Islam, of course, you can say, well, I mean, God knows everything, so this is totally
unproblematic. So, that's not where I'm trying to address this scholarly... Right. Using historical
methodology and... Yeah. The Quran shows a more intimate knowledge of these earlier traditions.
It's just not echoing stock phrases that could have been heard in conversation or in a homily
for instance. How do you explain this? Right. That's going to be up to each person, but this is the
first... All right. Now, just something very quickly here, right, in the four... In Sura Wan, right,
Sura Fatiha, in the fourth verse, the first four... The fourth verse, very short, Malik Yom Adim, right,
which I contend means the king of the day of judgment. This is a phrase right out of the
Jewish liturgy. Right. And in fact, the verses before it, right, first mentioned the divine
name Rahman, the merciful. This is right out of Judaism as well. And then the next verse is
Rabbi Alamin, the Lord of the worlds or the Lord of the ages. Right. This also comes from Judaism,
the... In the... It's all throughout the liturgy, but it's earliest... The earliest attestation is
in the book of Enoch, right. And we found it in the surviving extent, Aramaic fragments of the dead
sea scrolls, this divine title, Lord of the worlds. So you have Rahman, Lord of the worlds, and then
king of the day of judgment. All of this, right, is echoing Jewish liturgy, right, and Jewish
literature. You can say it's... Again, you can look at this as a divine echo, theologically, or just
from a historian's viewpoint. But there is a... There is debate about this word,
Malik, which I'm rendering king, because most Muslims will say that this actually doesn't mean
king. It means owner or master. And they'll say that the Aleph is to be pronounced with a long
Aleph, right, and that's what's going to change it from meaning king to owner. But there are a lot
of reasons to just reject that. And it's, you know, the 1.6 or however many Muslims there are who say
this prayer many times every day, they're actually, I think, saying it incorrectly. It's not mentioned,
it's not referring to the owner of the day of judgment. It's the king of the day of judgment,
which is a totally lucid phrase in a Jewish context. And that's the majority opinion
among the seven Kiryat, right, of the Koran. Five of them read king, and only two of them
read Malik. And for some reason, everyone wants to go with the minority on this. But what I want
to point out here very, very quickly is Malik, it has three letters, right. Meem Lamqaf has numerical
value of 90. And in fact, there are exactly 90 letters after this word to the end of sort of one.
All right. So that's also that's that's a very, that has precedent in Judaism. I'm interested
in this type of literary technique, numerical based lyric technique. I was going to say that that whole
seven thing where you talk about the seven letters, Genesis opens up with strange seven
significance. So I definitely think now to show you why it's so important that we read Malik here
instead of Malik or a king instead of owner is that the final Surah of the Quran, Surah 114,
verse two, reads Malik Ness, the king of humanity. And there no one disagrees Malik means Malik,
it means king. So what you have is a, you know what chiasm is? Yes. This is a macro chiasm in
the Quran that joins together in a macro chiasm structure, the entirety of the Quran, Surah one
and Surah four. I mean, 114. Right. The end is the beginning. Malik is in verse four of
Surah one and it's in the fourth verse to the end of Surah 114 because there's six verses,
so it's in verse two. So it's a this it's a really, really neat macro chiasm structure that we see
there. Right. And it's totally lost when you recite Surah one, the Fatihah as owner of the
day of judgment instead of king of the day of judgment. You lose that. But what's interesting
is, is that from the meme, this is the first letter of Malik, the in Surah 114, from the meme of Malik
to the end of Surah 114, there are exactly 66 letters. And 66 is the numerical value of Arabic
God. And so they there is a numerical technique, right, that is used together with this same word
in Surah one and Surah 114. Right. Anyway, that's just trivia to throw out there to show you.
This also you could see if you feel it theologically, you could just say, well,
this is another confirmation of the Jewish revelation, right, of Jewish tradition. Right.
So it should it shouldn't cause anyone any concern at all. But well, I'll leave it at that. We should
move on. Okay. To another example. Well, here you don't have to read this, but I'll point out this
may sound really bizarre for scholars. But now that we see these Jewish parallels,
it's interesting that in Surah 96, right, remember that that ties into Surah into the
Basmala and Surah one, right, because they both are echoing the same passage from Exodus 34.
Now, it's interesting that if you take, if you make a list of the verse numbers in Surah 96,
which contain divine names, so the two main divine names, Allah, God, or Rob, Lord,
those in verses one, three, eight and 14, if you add them up to get 26, which is the numerical
value of the tetragrammaton in Hebrew, and you say, well, maybe that's just coincidence. But the
fact is in verse 14, we have the only instance of the divine name Allah in Surah 96, numerical value
of the Hebrew equivalent, which is Elohim is 86. Now, after the name Allah in verse 14 of Surah 96,
there are exactly 86 letters to the end of that Surah. I could give you about 200 examples of this
type of letter number technique in the Quran, right, that is sort of sometimes based on Hebrew,
the numerical values of Hebrew divine names, rather than the numerical value of the Arabic
cognates, even though you do find examples, for instance, of where like the Aleph, the first letter
is letter 66 in a verse. I mean, that happens a lot as well. So there is this very interesting
dialogue, if you will, going on. If you want to view it theologically, you could say this is
divine dialogue on a numerical level, because let's say if you're reaching out to Jews,
this would be something that would really appeal to them. It would be very interesting.
So if you want to view it that way, you could also view it historically, as well.
In either case, they knew what they were doing with this. This is brilliant, actually. And I say
that because it's an interesting technique that the Jewish people also were using in the Hebrew
Bible. You did the whole Psalms 114. We've discussed a lot of these different things before,
so it's really interesting. Yeah, well, you know, a really quick example would be Psalm 118, right?
Towards the end of it, you have three forms of the divine name El or Elohim, right? And the final
two or three verses of Psalm 118. Now, if you add those up, it's El, Eli, and Elohim. So God,
my God, and my God in a longer form, right? But if you add the numerical values together, why is
it short form El and then the longer form Elohim? Well, if you add the numerical value up of those,
which is 30 plus 31 plus 46, it's 118. So it's not a coincidence. It's deliberately one in order
to hint at the enumeration of that Psalm, which is Psalm 118, which shows you that it's either been
composed or redacted to serve as the 118th chapter and the 150th chapter Psalter, right? So this is
exactly the type of thing that you can find hundreds of times, literally hundreds of times
show a Quran. I think I'm the only scholar who's collected the evidence because no one's thought
of looking for it, right? Because it, you know, who wants to take the time to count the letters,
right? You know, in Arabic or Hebrew, but it's just something I've always been mathematically
inclined. So I like to do it. And I begin to notice these, these, these patterns, right? So
I just want to comment and say, I can see why a Muslim who believes would use this and say,
these are evidences of a miracle. But I want them to also consider hearing a naturalist like me,
just this phrase, the Hebrew Bible did the same thing. Okay, that's the same thing. And it doesn't
prove, it doesn't prove inspiration. Even from the theological viewpoint, it doesn't pre prove
inspiration. In fact, Jews theology, and I think Islamic theology and Christian theology would
say that would be bad theology to try to prove, you think you can prove the inspiration of a text,
because of numerical properties or something. Because then, you know, where does faith come
in? If something can be proven. But anyway, one, one historical issue that this is connected to
is relevant for is the whole issue of the development of the Quranic text and the
codification, the canonization of the Quranic text, right? I'm one of those scholars who think
that the Ufmanic text that we have is actually early. Right, right. I'm not going to be dogmatic,
but you know, after decades and decades of study, and I've been reading the Quran in Arabic since
I think I was a teenager as well, right? After all those decades, you know, that's where I've
settled. It looks like the evidence points in that direction. There are too many things that
just cannot be explained for me if you have an opposite view. It's an early, it's early. Right,
would you say 50s, 60s, or like, like two, three decades after? That's not the right question to
ask, because of the whole issue of orality in relation to textuality and the integration
and the mutual, you know, imbrication, right, of the two in that type of culture. What I mean by
that is this. What I mean when I say that this is early is I believe it's, for instance, you're
well aware of the Sanna fragments, right? And a lot of scholars think that this is a three Ufmanic
version. And so, but I would say it's secondary to what we call the Uthmanic text, right? It's
secondary, and I don't want to go through the whole, maybe in another talk, if you want to
read it, I could go through the details to show you my evidence for this reasoning. But it is
secondary, in many respects, and it's also what is secondary to the Uthmanic version is the
sequence of the Suras, right? Because if you look at the Uthmanic text, some scholars have
begin to develop this point in the last several decades. The Quranic text, at least we have,
as we have, you know, the so-called Cairo edition, which is what we call the Uthmanic
right version. It's not haphazardly put together. Every Surah, right, seems to be in some way
connected, literally, or some other way to the Surah that comes before it or after it.
And sometimes it's very subtle, but it's very clear, right? And entire books have been written
on this, right? How there's not haphazard at all. It's very integrated, the way that all this,
the Suras are arranged, right? And for instance, this, no scholar has mentioned this before,
because again, you know, they don't like to take the time to look at this kind of detail. If you
look at Surah 53 on the star, Surah 53, you will notice, right, it's very important when you're
reading the Quran and Arabic, of course, everyone knows, to look at the terminal letter of each
ayah, the last letter in each verse. And it's usually involved in some type of rhyme, as I'm
sure you're right. But now what you will notice is that there are exactly 50, there are 78 total
verses in Surah 55, but there are exactly 53 verses that end with the letter alif maksura,
which is a hybrid letter, right? So that letter, right, of course, and the terminal position occurs
53 times in that Surah. And there's a lot of evidence to point out that that is not coincidence.
So this is a very subtle hint at the enumeration of that Surah as Surah 53. So now if you take
that Surah 53, and then move it and put it, let's say, you know, before Surah 19, right,
you've disrupted this integral rhetoric, right, or the structure of the Quran, right? And which is
really amazing. For instance, but Surah 54, well, put it this way, Surah 55, right, has a refrain,
right, which is repeated 31 times, right, in different verses, 31 times. That refrain
is anticipated in Surah 54, verse 55, 45, 54, 55, so it's not a coincidence. That's an intentional
anticipation and hint at the enumeration of the next Surah, which is going to repeat what's said
in verse 55 of Surah 54, 31 times in the next Surah.
Interesting. Yeah, yeah. So you think the Uthmanic.
So if you put them in a different sequence, you're going to lose those subtle hints of
connection. And that's what you that that doesn't pertain to the Sanna manuscripts. But many examples
that I could give you that are like that do. And so you can see that the arrangement of the Surahs
and the Sanna manuscripts are secondary. They have disturbed this original sequence.
So you think the Sanna manuscripts, the lower text, it's secondary. You don't think it's earlier?
It's earlier to a lot of manuscripts we have, but the readings themselves are secondary to what we
know, you know, as the Uthmanic sequence of chapters. And again, I can show you and there are no
matter if you want to say like, as Mahalali says, these were student exercises, you don't even have
to say that you could say that, well, yeah, this the Sanna manuscripts were part of a codex.
But it doesn't matter. There are other codices, like in the Magana collection, right? There's
another Quran manuscript that has variations that are not attested in the seven or the ten.
So this is exactly what everyone says makes the Sanna manuscripts unique.
So it's not as unique as everyone's building, but it is very significant because the length,
you know, the amount of the Sanna manuscripts. But if you look at a lot of what's going on,
especially in Surah 19, you will see that a lot of these variants look like anyone trained
biblical studies would look at them and say, well, that's a gloss. That's an interpretative
gloss on what we see in the Uthmanic version. You know, and then there's another one, for instance,
one like in the Uthmanic or I'm saying the Cairo edition, where you have a reference to
and I hope I'm not reversing this because I could be as you know, I started out having a
cup of coffee, which I really needed. But there's one that mentions the paying of the zakat,
paying of alms. But in the Sanna manuscript, it says to wage jihad. And I might have that reversed.
But that's a gloss. Again, it's interpreting zakat as a way to wage jihad, right? So that's
showing you that already at that early stage, there was already a spiritual interpretations
of the concept of jihad. It just was not totally or exclusively related to armed conflict, for
instance. It was already being spiritualized, right, which is in itself a secondary type of
interpretative manifestation or feature, let's just say. So, yes, there's an example there, right?
So the very strange sequence of the surahs or the chapters in the Sanna manuscripts is secondary
to what we find in the Manic manuscript, where everything coheres. Every chapter in the Uthmanic
has these very subtle literary or even letter level hints at what the surah comes before it
or comes after it. They belong together. And another example of that would be
surah 112, right? Just starts off, which is an echo of Deuteronomy 64, the Shema, right? Shema Yisrael
and Reich, right? This is a kuhu lachohad, right, saying he is God, right? And
so the two divine names in Hebrew, Yodhe Vahe and Elohim, the numerical vibes are 26 and 86.
You add them together, you get 112, right? So this is surah 112. So I don't think it's a coincidence,
and it's surah 112 because it has that hint at the numerical, the sum of the two
numerical values of those two divine names in Hebrew, right? So it's hinting at the Lord and
God of the Shema, right? And so you place it 112. So if you put it, if you did not have a Fatiha,
that would be surah 111 and you would lose that. So let's show you the Uthmanic manuscript or the
Uthmanic version or recension, right? In my opinion, it's as early as you can get everything, also the
Sana or the other Kiryat, all of the seven Kiryat. If you knew Hebrew, excuse me, if you knew Arabic,
you could get a book of all the Kiryat, the seven Kiryat, right? And you could go through each
and every one of them. I did it. It takes a long time. Compare it to the Uthmanic manuscript and you
can make really good arguments and you can explain all of them as secondary interpretations of what
we find in the Uthmanic version of the Cairo, right? And so what is it all about? Well, again,
I think you have to compare it to something in Judaism before it becomes clear. Hardly anyone
does this. When you're looking at the Maseritic text, what do you see every now and then? You see
that there's a word and they show you a variant and it's called the Kiryat, right? So you have the
Kitab, the Kitib and the Kiryat, right? So the written form and the spoken form and the Kiryat,
that Hebrew word is cognate with the Arabic word Quran, right? So to recite, right? And so you have
these variants in the Maseritic text and it's very mysterious where they come from, right? But
when you're in a synagogue and you're reading the Torah scroll, you have to pronounce it according
to the Kiryat where there's a variant. But when you're writing a Torah scroll, you have to write
it according to the Kitib, right? And if you write it according to the recitation form, then it's
invalid. You've got to throw it away and start all over again. So this is showing you, I think, that
in the Jerusalem temple, there were probably, right, a deposit of the Tanakh, right? Different
scrolls of the different books of the Tanakh and they were, there was an authoritative text
and the variants were very few and that's nothing like seven variants, right? There's only one
in Judaism, one group of recitation variants. And so you spell it differently according to
the recitation, if you see what I mean. And so what you had in Judaism, so the Maseritic text,
right, comes from what we call, you know, the Prophet Maseritic text, right? Now that
Protom Maseritic text was probably the official text of the Jerusalem temple and it was controlled,
right? The only, the reason we only have one set of variants is because that text was so
controlled. How was it controlled? It was controlled by the Soferim. And this is a group of scribes
and that Soferim means the counters. What were they counting? They were counting the letters
and the number of words, right? Exactly what you've been talking about. Because if you leave
out one letter, then all of these like numerical structures in the text, you're going to lose it.
Like, you know, in Barayshid 1-1, right? It has seven words and 28 letters, but semantically,
the divided between 14 letters plus 14 letters was 7 times 2. So it's 7 plus 7 plus 7 plus 7 plus 7.
Why? Because there's seven days in that creation story. If you take out one of those letters,
you've lost that, right? So the Soferim were controlling for that, right? So the Dead Sea Scrolls,
what do you have, right? When the Dead Sea Scrolls came out, you had an entire generation of scholarship
that sort of got sidetracked. Oh, look at all these differences with the Maseritic text. Well,
it was overlooked and now a lot of scholars, right, are realizing a lot of these Qumran manuscripts
were like scribal exercises. But not only that, there are other. Like, there's a famous Qumran
Psalter, the Book of Psalms. And the arrangement of the chapter is totally different from the
Maseritic text, and a lot of them are missing. A lot of the chapter is not even in there. Well,
as soon as you realize that that was composed for a certain type of liturgy at Qumran and was not
meant to be a copy of the Hebrew, a proto Maseritic Psalter, it all falls into place.
It's not that that, that Psalter at Qumran is a pre Maseritic Psalter that shows something
more primitive than the Maseritic text. That's the same mistake that's been made with the
Salam manuscripts by a lot of Quranic scholars. It's not an early, something earlier than with
Monic text. It's secondary to it, but it's a free rearrangement. So who knows what the exact
purpose was, but it's sort of like, I liken it to, like at Qumran, there are some biblical manuscripts,
manuscripts of certain biblical, let's say extracts from the Bible were written and composed at
these little scrolls served as devotional, private devotionals for this or that scribe,
right? But then you can't misinterpret it as well. This is supposed to be an exact copy
of what they had at hand for, let's say, the book of whatever, Habakkuk or Psalm 37 or whatever.
Right. Anyway, I mean, some, this is fun. I'm not dogmatic. This is just my view,
basically evidence. It's interesting. It makes me think of Jeremiah though, Dead Sea Scrolls scholar
Kip Davis that I've had on talks about how the Jeremiah and the Dead Sea Scrolls does look
more primitive. He says because the one we have, now this isn't the Torah, this is not the first
five books. So this might be why in the writings, you might have differences, but in Jeremiah,
he said it looks like it's been padded in the Maseritic, like it's got like, it's almost double
size. Whereas in the, in the one we find in the Dead Sea Scrolls, it's really minimal. And he went
through some examples explaining it, but it was really interesting. Now I want to get back on
track. This is so interesting. Everything you're saying, I don't feel like we should continue
going into things that I could go into and ask you about the two horned man, you know, the Alexander,
the great romance, things like this, I think are fascinating. Then take it right back to Sura 55.
Right. I tell you, there's, there's a refrain that happens 31 times in there. Now most scholars,
not all, but, but most critical scholars say, well, actually this, this is echoing
Psalm 136, which has a refrain that's repeated 26 times. Is that what you got pulled up here,
136 right here? Let's go to that. That's got it. Got it. Got it. Got it.
That's right. Psalm 136. Right. Now the immediate objection to that is that, well,
there's only 30, well, there are 31 refrains in Sura 55, but there are only 26 in Psalm 136.
So what's going on there? Well, you know, this is a little excerpt here that I copied from a
recent presentation, a conference presentation I gave at a university on Quran and biblical
intersexuality. But so in Sura 55, you have this refrain in English, right? So which of the Lord's
favors or bounties or gifts will both of you deny? Right. Now Psalm 136, the refrain, which you have
26 times, right, is for the loving kindness, right, the chesed, the loving kindness of Yorubah
He endures forever. Right. So so the key to this is to realize that Psalm 136 in the rabbinic
literature is called the great Halal, Halal, right, the great praise. Right. So why is it the great
praise? Because there's another section in the Psalter, which is called the Jerusalem Halal.
Right. These are the praise, hallelujah Psalms or praise Psalms that were decided, right, either on
the way to Jerusalem for pilgrimage, or as you were ascending the stairs to the temple, right,
Psalms of ascent. But in any case, right, there are 26 of these refrains in Psalm 136.
But some of these other Halal Psalms, right, also contain this refrain. And if you add them
together, you get 31. So there are 31 instances of this refrain for the mercy of the Lord and the
deers forever, right, in the Halal Psalms. Right. So it actually does line up. But now you can go
further than that. Surah 55, the title is Surah al-Rahman, the merciful. Well, first of all,
I don't want to get into this too much, but there are two types of numerical values you can assign
in Hebrew or Arabic. And that is the standard Gamatria value, which is, you know, like Aleph
in Hebrew is the equivalent to number one, the second letter is number two. But when you get
to 10, you owe this 10, but then the next letter becomes 20. Right, 20, 30, 40. That's right. But
then you then you get to 100, 200, 300, 400, Tav, the final letter is 400. However, there's another
system that was used by the ancient scribes. And that's what is in Hebrew called mis parseduri.
In English, you could call it the ordinal value. And that is one, the letters one through 22 represent
the numbers one through 22. So Tav in the is 22, not 400. Right. So if you use that ordinal value,
Rahman, the divine name Rahman in in Arabic, and actually also the Hebrew cognate of the
same divine name has the numerical value of 55. Now, what's very significant about that, besides
the numerical value, right, is that in the Syriac Peshida translation of the Hebrew Psalm 136,
right, the word for a hesid, which is the mercy of the Lord, right, becomes plural.
But it uses the Syriac cognate of the Arabic Rahman, which is the title of Sura 55. Right.
So what this is an illustration of is how this would make perfect sense. You can do this theologically
or historically, right, is that right in the Arabian Peninsula, the main language of the
Christians was Syriac. And their version of the Bible was the Peshida. And so this is a divine hint,
divine echo at the Peshida translation of Psalm 136.
So this is touching the Christian this out. Other scholars, for some reason,
just totally looked over this. Wow. So this touches on the Christian
background as well as it seems like mostly. And if you were to put a percentage, like
if you were to if I were to ask you to say, all right, I just want to get your opinion on a
percentage of the whole Quran, all 114 Suras. If you were to look at that totality, if there was a
somewhere on the scale between Christianity and Judaism as who they're trying to be more like
or there seems more of like an influence. Do you think that there's more influence of Judaism,
even though there is a connection to Christianity? That's a difficult question. I really can answer
because it becomes complicated when you bring up the issue of what is called Jewish Christianity,
or there's Christians who may have been following some degree of Jewish praxis.
Okay, good point. Good point. This is very much a debate. It's fallen out of favor among
modern scholars, but there are some still some really respected scholars like Geese Rums,
an Oxford, believes that not all but some of the Christians, right, of the Arabian Peninsula,
were Jewish Christians. And I, I hold that too. Now the late Patricia Crone, I like a lot of her
work, but in a series, a two series of essays that she published were published posthumously after
her death from cancer. She defended, right, the thesis and all the evidence she could that there
were these Jewish Christians, right, and we see some of their beliefs being affirmed and some
negated in the Quran, right. Now, I would say she, she attacks me and I've never, I've never published
a response because these are posthumous and I've wanted some years to pass, right, just to be
respectable to her memory, but she attacks one of my theological works. She doesn't mention
as a theological work and where she, she says, this is not a really a critical book because
I do not argue, I just presume, I just, from the outset, assume that there were Jewish Christians
and that we see affirmations and negations of Jewish Christian ideas, right, in the Quran.
But this is, is, even though this is a theological work I wrote, right, in the wake of
9-11 actually, in order to write, to create good will between Jewish Christians and Muslims,
I wish you would have given me a little bit of credit for that, but anyway, so she just lumps me
together, lumps that, she overlooks the genre, but the fact is that I do argue in there on the
basis of a lot of critical scholarship, I do try to present the case, right, and I don't follow
everything that some of the scholars I cited, that she implies that I just follow them uncritically,
is not the case, but the irony of it is, is that later in that essay, she ripped off
something of mine from my own book, which she denigrated as being uncritical,
and I mean, that is some other conversation, right, that's something, you know, at some
point I'm going to address, but I do think they're related to all of that. There, there is
good evidence, right, that for these Jewish Christian ideas being echoed in the Quran,
either affirmatively or negatively. Now, some of these don't necessarily have to come from
actual Jewish Christians, they could have been mediated through the mainstream Syriac Christian
Church's literature, because the Syriac, the mainstream Syriac Church preserved a lot of the
earlier literature that was, you know, sort of quasi heretical, was Christian from centuries
earlier, works like those of Solomon, for instance, or the sort of Clementine literature.
But anyway, so to make that short, because of this complicating factor of the possible
phenomenon of Jewish Christianity in the Quranic matrix, it's hard to say, you know, what predominates
one over the other, Jewish or Christian, it's really hard to say, you know, I just can't come up
with some, all I know is that the integrally addressed to both Jews and Christians.
Yeah, one more, and they overlap with these Jewish Christianity, so it's really hard to tell.
That was a great response. And I totally can empathize with the way you took that. So one more
question I need to ask you before we go. Jesus was seen as crucified in our Gospels and, of course,
lots of other literature that isn't just the Gospels, but they have a unique perspective,
of course, that Jesus was not crucified or was not killed or there was a replacement. And we do know
later literature clearly indicates like Simon, another guy is in replacement,
looking back into the Gospels, is that a reflection of potential kernel there of memory?
Who knows? The point is, this would fit, I think, a Jewish Christianity which doesn't deify the Jesus,
which isn't making more of him than what a real guy, a Jewish prophet, if I could use the term,
would fit. Do you see any literature, intertextual literature, that would make sense, that predates
the Koran, where they would use that idea? Where do you think they borrowed it? Is that from the
Apocalypse of Peter? What do you think is going on there? You get where I'm opening up a can of
worms here of how Jesus, they don't think he was actually crucified, therefore he didn't actually
die. That's subject to debate though. The modern standard line from Apologetics,
that holds to that, but there are many scholars of Islam that point out some problems without it.
That may not, the crucifixion may not necessarily be denied in the Koran, in the passage you're citing,
because it's what, one way to interpret it is that, all right, it says,
it's criticizing Jews because they're boasting, we killed the Messiah, that is Christ in the sense
of a name that Christians use for Jesus. But God says, but they didn't kill him, but I raised
him to myself. So that could mean, could mean resurrection. Well, yeah, well, not necessarily
resurrection, but this ascension from the cross, right, also. But what I'm getting at is it could
just be a type of way of saying that they didn't really kill him, because he didn't stay dead.
Even if they killed him, I brought him up to myself. So it could say that, because there's
debate about this, because other places in the Koran, it says, God says to Isa, you know,
I'll, you know, refers to his death, but there's a lot of ways to get around it. Anyway, it's
open to debate among critical scholars. And there are even traditional, Muslim traditions,
right, that can be cited for the interpretation that he actually did die on the cross,
but it was only for a certain amount of time, and, you know, God brought him up to himself.
And so there are those traditions as well. You have to be aware of modern theology
being read back and up mystically, right, into the past as if this is the way it's always been
viewed. Right. It's the same thing with the subject of the Koran's canonization and all of that and
the stories about Ufman, sending up four copies, all of this. I mean, that's sort of like what we,
I mean, a biblical scholar would compare that to the traditions we have from Pethios,
and no one's going to take everything Pethios says at face value. Right. Right.
We might need some kernel of historical kernels there, but it's really not the case. And again,
to wrap this one thought up that it says before, the reason, one of the reasons for
viewing that Ufmanic, or the Cairo edition, if you will, as early, is that it couldn't have been
written by, you know, people from the later time, right, when the hadith were assembled,
because when it was already, they didn't know what a lot of the Koran meant. What are all these
mysterious letters that start some of the surah? Allah, if not me, what's that? What's this word
mean? We have no idea. What's that word mean? Yeah, it comes from an earlier period. That in an
earlier period, they would have known what it meant. And that all that knowledge was lost.
Well, not only that's the great mystery. That's the great mystery. And it's the same thing. We
have the same paradigm in Christianity, though, in my opinion, as a scholar, the original Jesus
movement, right, this Jesus figure was faithful to the law. And the way you can get to that is that
what we can know more historically is his brother James, this very Torah observant
Jew, led the movement after Jesus. There's no way that he could have led this movement if Jesus had
done and said all the things that the Gospels claim. And so, already at the time of the Gospels,
the original message, right, is no longer understood. And it's the same. When the Quran,
when they begin interpreting it, when we have the tafsir, right, tradition developing already,
they all through the Quran, there are these mysterious letters, no one knows what they mean.
There are these mysterious words, what do they mean? No one knows, they all debate it.
So, that there's no way that that squares with the idea that, well, it had just been invented,
right, because the people who invented it would have known. I mean, they would have been able to
give some claim, at least, well, this is what these mysterious letters mean. That knowledge
had been lost over a generation. Anyway, I actually did an interview recently with the
Marain van Putin. I don't know if you've heard of him. Sure, sure. Yeah, very respected scholar.
Yeah. And he mentioned that he believed that the Quran was actually recited and understood in the
Quresh tribe language, so that it would have been the tribal dialect. And that that would,
that is a very interesting, and he points out today, the reason that knowledge of the Quran,
many passages of the Quran and words of the Quran were lost was because in the meantime,
there had come a souring in the relations between what we now call Muslims and the Jews and the
Christians, because a lot of those mysterious words and other things like this, right, are echoes of
Jewish and Christian scriptures. And so now if you're no longer availing yourself of that
source for knowledge, you're going to be out of loss. Oh, man, this you're opening up a whole
can. Because when the Quran uses the word Islam or Muslim Muslim, it's not using it in the sense
that modern column uses or the medieval column theology uses. Because now, when you read the
Quran and it talks about the Muslims, everyone has in their mind, well, this means the followers of
this religion called Islam. But that's not what it means in the Quran. In the Quran, it means
anyone who has submitted their their will to God. Right. And so that includes Jews and Christians
who may not even accept the Prophethood, the Prophet of Islam. Right. And so it was only after
a generation or so, right, where this, right, Fred Donner's pointed this out, over a thousand
times, right, the people who are being addressed in the Quran are addressed as the believers,
O believers. I think actually, that's a bad translation, it should be O faithful, because
it's just not an intellectual ascent that the Quran is talking about, talking about being faithful,
right. It's not just an idea, but faithful in your conduct and all this. But anyway,
over a thousand times, that's what that's what the people in that movement called themselves.
Right. The term Muslim, right, it's hardly ever occurs. But that's what was latched onto after
generation or so. It's, and it's, it's very understandable from a historical sociological
perspective, right, where you had this distancing starting and now you're going to have to, you
know, create more clear lines that separates you from those that just like what happened at the
synagogues with Christians and Jews in the first century. And here you have already this anti-Semitism,
anti-Judaism starting to peep in, and they're they're separating themselves from that Jewish
cultural. So understanding early Christianity becomes more complex. It's not that simple.
You have to have a background like you're talking about. And you talked about that on the channel
before as well. We, we've get into this stuff. There's so many questions, Dr. Zener. I'm afraid
we're going to go on forever if we don't pause, because there's so much more I know that you have
to let us be aware of and educate us. Is our final word from you that we'd like to make,
because I really want to wrap this up and do more with you on the topic.
Sure. I'd be happy to do more interviews since it's sort of a relevant topic at this point,
since I just last week finished translating the Quran, right. It's over I think 12 years it took.
So it's sort of a fresh interest, a fresh concern, right. And I think what I take away from it is
it's just not a translation. It's also, you know, running commentary, sometimes quite lengthy,
but mostly very, very brief, right, especially pointing out where 99% of current translations
get a lot of things wrong, right, which should not be the case anymore. But anyway,
I would say that repeat, right. In the beginning, this movement was a movement of those who were
faithful to the God of Abraham. And it was only after a generation that it seems that
relationship began to sour with the Christians on the Jews. And then there was this separation,
right. And the one of the keys to understanding Quran correctly is then availing ourselves of
the Jewish and Christian sources that are divinely echoed, right, in the Quran. And that's,
that's what I mean. I have so many questions. I mean, just the name of Allah and where does
this name come from? There's so many things. So let's pause this here. Let's do this again next
time. Ladies and gentlemen, please leave comments in the comment section. Let us know what you
think about this. I am shocked. I didn't know that Dr. Zener had this much insight into the Quran and
just this whole tradition in the history. I'm definitely going to be wanting to get some insight
from you and let me know what you think. Don't forget to like it, of course. Go down in the
description, check out his EDU page. The links are down there to check out Dr. Zener's work.
And thank you once again for joining me today on MythFishing.
Until next time, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythFishing.
