It really seems like Dr. Ehrman is just woefully ignorant of the scholarship around this problem.
Seems like Bart's ignorant of the scholarship he just doesn't know.
Again, it just seems like Dr. Ehrman is just woefully ignorant of a lot of the scholarships surrounding this issue with Matthew.
I'm happy to talk about my knowledge of the scholarship with Matthew.
No, that's just false, and I can just...
You don't have to take my word for it. Let me just pull up some actual scholars here.
Again, Dr. Ehrman, it just seems very much unaware of a lot of the scholarship around this issue.
Whoa, what?
It just seems like Dr. Ehrman is actually quite ignorant of a lot of the scholarship around this,
which I was actually surprised when I saw his response in this.
He just didn't seem aware of it. He just said, well, I got this from a Catholic scholar, which is kind of strange.
Sounds like he doesn't want to know about scholarship. Sounds like he thinks he knows about scholarship.
But if you want scholarship on Matthew, read the commentary that Dale Allison wrote with W.D. Davies.
You're right, Bart. He doesn't want to look at serious scholarship on this issue.
Music
Dr. Bart D. Ehrman, welcome back to MythVision, my friend.
Thank you. Thanks for having me again.
Thank you. You did a course on the genius of the Gospel of Matthew.
In that course, it's a deep dive on this gospel, which is a strange gospel.
We have tug-of-war between with this guy at Jew, with this guy at Gentile, and there's a lot of really interesting.
The scripture was fulfilled, so I hope everybody goes and takes that course with you.
But let's get into a little bit of the online apologetic, anti-apologetic drama that takes place.
You did an interview with apologia, and in that interview, apologia, I think, emphasized some of the apologist's argumentations.
And what happened is Michael Jones, who's inspiring philosophy a big YouTube channel, responded to some of those things you said.
And so then there was a response to that by a Dead Sea Scroll scholar, critical scholar, friend of mine, Dr. Kip Davis.
And he has a wonderful video responding in depth into the scholarship on how they deal with the two donkeys.
I called Dr. Allison, actually, on the phone a week and a half ago.
He's trying to put a bibliography together, and he said, I'm in a crummy mood, but what is your question?
I said, well, these apologists keep saying that it's not two donkeys.
It's one donkey, and they're sitting on the two, I guess you'd say, the cloths that go over the donkey.
And he's just sitting here going, oh my gosh, this is annoying, harmonizers, just annoying, but okay, maybe we'll talk to him later.
In this thing, Dr. Kip has a question for you.
Sorry for such a long intro.
Dr. Airman, I have seen apologists responding to your comments about the two donkey reading in Matthew 21, that Matthew is clearly reading the Hebrew as opposed to the LXX.
Because of the rendering of the last line on the son of a donkey, it seems obvious to me, Dr. Kip, that Matthew is quoting a form of the LXX, since he is following this text verbatim up to this point or up to that point.
Do you have any thoughts about the change he makes in the last line?
The simplest explanation seems to me that he is probably using a different, more literal recension of the Greek, but it is a primary importance for Matthew to have Jesus sitting on two animals.
Thank you so much for your work in public spaces.
So is our audience supposed to understand what this all means?
This is complicated stuff.
Okay, so maybe I should just kind of explain what the situation is here briefly.
Is that okay?
In case somebody doesn't know.
So in the Gospel, Jesus rides into Jerusalem to fulfill a prophecy of Scripture, and the prophecy of Scripture is about basically how the Savior will come riding into Jerusalem on a donkey.
And it's a quotation that is from Zechariah that says that the text in Zechariah is in poetic form.
And it's written in Hebrew, of course, because the Old Testament is in Hebrew.
In Hebrew poetry, the way they do their poetry in Hebrew is not by rhyming words.
The way you learned in third grade about how to write a poem with rhyming words.
They rhyme ideas.
And so a couplet, a two-liner in Hebrew, the first line and the second line will correspond in some ways.
And so, for example, a synonymous parallelism is the first line will say something and the second line will say the same thing using different words.
An obedient child is a pleasure to his parents, and the boy who does what his father says creates happiness.
It's like you got these two lines that basically are saying the same thing, but they use different words to say it.
But sometimes it'll be like the flip side of the coin.
It'd be an antithetical parallelism.
You know, the thoughtful child is a pleasure to his mother and the one who is thoughtless is a pain to his father.
Something like that, like saying just the opposite.
Okay, so you have various ways of doing these parallelisms.
And in this passage in Zechariah, when it talks about this person writing on a donkey, it says that he'll come in, he'll be writing on a donkey, on the coal, the full of an ass.
Okay, so it's the same, it's a synonymous parallelism.
And so, in Mark, for example, Jesus secures a donkey, his disciples secure a donkey, and he rides into Jerusalem on a donkey.
In Matthew, it's been long noted that what happens is Matthew actually quotes the verse on a donkey on the coal full of an ass,
and that Jesus, and they spread out their garments and stuff, and Jesus rides into town, but he has them get two animals.
They don't get one animal, they get two animals, and they spread their clothes, and it looks like he straddles them and rides into town on two animals.
And so, whoa, what?
And so, the deal is, there have been scholars, including one of the finest critical scholars of the New Testament, John Meyer, who taught New Testament at Notre Dame,
who wrote a very important commentary in the Gospel of Matthew from a historical critical point of view, who argued that what Matthew's doing is,
he's trying to show that Jesus literally fulfilled the prophecy, because it speaks of a donkey and the coal of an ass, and so Jesus literally rides in on both of them.
And John Meyer used that to claim that the author of Matthew may not have been Jewish, because if he had been Jewish, he would have understood Hebrew parallelism.
And it looks like he's taking this literally when it's just a literary device.
And so, he hasn't convinced a lot of people about that, but it is pretty clear that Jesus rides in on two animals.
And so, when you say LXX, you're referring to the Septuagint, as your audience almost certainly knows, but the Septuagint, the question is, is Matthew quoting the Septuagint and doesn't understand the Hebrew parallelism or not?
And some people are saying that, well, some people say, no, no, no, he's got to be following the Hebrew here.
And some people say, no, he's following the Greek here.
And to me, I'm trying to get my mind about why that would matter.
I mean, either way, he appears to ride in on two animals.
They get two animals and he rides in on two animals, and that's the problem, because it's just kind of funny.
I mean, it's kind of a weird scene, and it looks like Matthew.
Matthew goes out of his way throughout his gospel to show that Jesus literally fulfilled Scripture, you know, starting in the birth narratives.
I deal with this a lot in my course, starting on the birth narratives that Matthew wants to show he really fulfilled Scripture.
And in this case, it's kind of like he takes it a step too far.
So, if people want to argue, is Matthew quoting the Hebrew or is he quoting the Greek?
The thing to realize about this is that we have a Hebrew text that we don't know of Zechariah,
that we don't know how original it is, but it's the standard text that looks like most people have.
The Greek text we have of the Old Testament, the Septuagint, is not a single thing.
We don't have a single Septuagint translation.
There were a number of Greek translations done of the Old Testament in different parts of the ancient Jewish world,
different parts of people living in different Greek areas.
They wanted Greek translations and different people translated them.
And so there's no guarantee that the Greek translation that we have printed today in like modern times,
the Greek Old Testament, is exactly the one that Matthew would have had.
And so it was Professor Kip, I think, who was saying this.
Is that right?
He's saying, look, it's word for word with our Septuagint until this last few words.
He said, you can't get word for word agreements if it's coming out of a translation from Hebrew.
He's obviously reading it in the Greek.
Otherwise, he wouldn't agree word for word with the Septuagint.
But if you had the last couple of words different, it's probably just a different version of the Greek that he has,
which would make perfect sense.
And just going deeper, I like what you said here.
We may have lost some version of the Greek scriptures.
The idea also looking at how Matthew uses Mark because instead of one and making it singular,
the antecedents here in Matthew literally make it plural then and talking about the animals.
And so you can you can watch what Matthew is doing to Mark and watch what he's doing with the scriptures.
And so my question to you is some scholars like Allison, when I call them on the phone,
sometimes they take a kind of conservative position or at least try to deal with it in a different way.
They think Matthew was too genius based on your course.
Of course, people need to sign up that he wouldn't have made this blunder of mistakenly literalizing a parallelism that he would have understood Hebrew parallelism.
Even in the Greek, you know, is the idea.
So he made this postulation that he thought maybe he's lifting from a narrative in Exodus where Moses is traveling with multiple donkeys back to Egypt.
And so he thought that and then someone criticized that and he never wrote me back yet to give me what that was that he was persuaded by.
But Matthew could have been mistaken.
He thinks he was too smart for that.
Yeah, isn't it the simplest explanation in your view, even though it's possible other other ones are the case, but that he just made a mistake and mistakenly took this little one.
Well, that's how I've normally understood it, but I actually have a simpler solution that I think is more viable.
And I don't think he's referring to Exodus.
I mean, he's quoting Zechariah.
And so, but Dale, Dale Allison is able to see all of these parallels everywhere.
I mean, he has an exhaustive understanding of both the Hebrew scripture and the New Testament.
And so he sees these kind of illusions everywhere and he's very good at that.
The simpler solution is that we have other highly trained rabbinic scholars from antiquity who sometimes will read this kind of synonymous parallelism literally.
And it's just a way of reading the text.
It's not that he's making a mistake or these two dumb to figure it out.
It's that the text itself is much more, you know, there's a lot more depth to the text than a simple literary synonymous parallelism.
And that by and so you have you have rabbinic commentaries on various kinds of synonymous parallelism that actually doesn't do the same thing.
You know, if you take it literally, like it doesn't make any sense because it's synonymous parallel.
It's just a way of interpreting the text.
And so it doesn't mean you're making a mistake any more than it would mean that like it's a it's a mistake if you use gametria to interpret the text.
Gametria is where like every word has a numerical value because each letter is a number until you add up the numbers that are represented by the letters.
Then you find another word in some other book all together in the Old Testament that has the same numerical value and you link the texts.
Now doing that isn't a matter of stupidity or making a mistake.
It's an interpretive method.
And so Matthew may be influenced by this kind of interpretive method that you could take the parallelism.
You recognize what it is, but you're actually making kind of a statement about it that is meant to be kind of a fuller understanding of it.
And so I'm kind of inclined to that these days instead of just saying, well, Matthew didn't know what he was talking about.
But either way, it sure makes it kind of a funny scene and it isn't, you know, it isn't.
You're right.
It isn't what you get in Mark, which was Matthew's source.
So Matthew's clearly changed it.
My sense is with somebody like Matthew, who really is bright.
I mean, they're in my course, I talk about like some things.
You know, you just wouldn't notice stuff unless you look really, really closely unless somebody tells you that Matthew's got in there.
And usually it shows some kind of cleverness of mind and not stupidity.
And so my rule of thumb is if somebody seems pretty smart and they say something you don't understand, it might be because, you know, they're smarter than you.
Rather than they're dumber than you.
I do want to say I went to bat for you in Kip's live stream chat where he discussed this when he played Michael's video.
When you initially responded on apology as channel, you just gave your two cents.
Yeah.
He fired your two cents off the side and Michael kind of disbarred.
It seems like Bart's ignorant of the scholarship.
He just doesn't know.
And I'm thinking he's not writing like a dissertation or publication.
This is an interview online where you're just saying, here's the deal.
It looks like he's got a Greek Old Testament.
He, you know, it was like a quick thing and it became a two and a half hour stream where he thought you don't know what you're talking about.
And I think he quoted probably some more conservative scholars who help him think Hebrew and then how that's relevant.
Well, I'm happy to talk about my knowledge of the scholarship of Matthew.
I, you know, as you know, I mean, I studied Matthew for 40 years.
And it's a scholarship of Matthew for 40 years.
But if you want scholarship, I'll tell you, if you want scholarship, if he's serious that he wants to know about, it sounds like he doesn't want to know about scholarship.
It sounds like he thinks he knows about scholarship.
But if you want scholarship on Matthew, read the commentary that Dale Allison wrote with W.D. Davies.
Three volumes, really dense.
I mean, it is hardcore scholarship.
It's not, it's not this kind of simple.
Sounds like you might have a copy hair behind you.
It is, there you go.
This is where you bar.
There you go.
I'm telling you, you know, this is not, this is not the kind of thing you get on the Internet.
This is serious.
This is very serious scholarship.
So signed by him to.
Okay.
Okay.
Right.
Very good.
Yeah.
And it's a very impressive commentary.
So W.D. Davies, who is his teacher, was one of the great scholars of the New Testament, who was intimately familiar with, with Hebrew texts.
He was a, he was one of these extremely learned linguists.
And, man, and so, and Dale was just kind of starting out when he, when he did this, and it's, it's a quite an impressive work.
Well, I can't remember what they say about the two donkeys though in there now that I think about it, but I've certainly read it a few times.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I hope people will go and look at the scholarship and consider what Barb is saying.
And of course, what Dr. Kip has said, and of course he is, as usual, we honor and respect you love learning from you as a scholar.
And we sign up for your course on Matthew so people can learn more about this gospel that does clever, very interesting things for the narrative about Jesus and how he's rewriting Mark.
And I love this stuff.
So any final words from you, Dr.
Well, just say that for the course, it includes when you purchase the course, it includes additional reading materials to suggestions for reading, which would be some of the scholarship.
I can't remember if I put that that commentary on because it's pretty heavy duty, but I put other commentaries on it that are really quite useful and other scholarship.
And so it's a nice resource to start with.
Thank you so much.
I'll see you all in the next course.
