And it was astonishing what I saw.
Jesus sails the sea with a crew, that is, his disciples, that are not nearly as noble
as he is, like Odysseus.
Like Odysseus, Jesus keeps his identity a secret so his enemies can't kill him.
The Jewish authorities play the role of Penelope's suitors.
They love the best seats in synagogues, and they're willing to kill in order to win the
inheritance.
Judas plays the role of Melantheus, Jesus' turn, quote, slave.
Jesus has his feet anointed by a woman, like Odysseus, having his feet anointed by his
nurse Eurychlea, and she recognizes him from his scar, and the name Eurychlea means
renowned far and wide, and it said of this woman who anoints Jesus that wherever the
gospel is proclaimed, it'll be in her memory.
So these parallels were so striking that I dared not give a new lecture on it because
it hadn't been digested.
And so I spent another summer working through the Gospel of Mark, creating criteria where
I might be able to make a claim that there's a literary connection, and at point after point
after point, it became clear that Mark was imitating not just the Odyssey, but also the
Iliad and also some Tragedian plays.
I translated Homer and Euripides and Plato for myself in order to compare the Greek of
the Gospel of Mark with the Greek of these stories, and it was unbelievable what I was
finding.
I also turned to a study of Greek rhetoric and understood better how literary imitation
or mimesis worked, and it was that people were taught how to write by imitating recognized
models and to compare heroes in an activity called synchrosis.
Synchrosis is simply a comparison to show that one character is similar, but better than
another.
And of course, that's what's going on in Mark.
Synchrosis is like Odysseus, but he's better than Odysseus.
He's like Hector in his death, but he comes back to life.
So that's a synchrosis, and it goes on and on.
Alright, alright, alright.
Let's get the party started, and so everybody knows that we have a course out.
Dennis McDonald did an 18 lecture course with me here at MythVision.
This is the first course I actually am involved in, which I felt very honored and privileged.
That's the landing page.
You can find that in the description as well.
The course looks like this, and it's very thorough.
Thanks to my wonderful wife, Ryan, for packaging it and making it look all pretty.
18 lectures, all of them are in 4K, extremely deep.
If you're looking for a deep dive, that's the course.
But today, we're actually going to be talking to some experts.
And I have Dr. Gregory Crane joining us today from Perseus Tufts and Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
And of course, my honorary, you could call him, PhD, best friend, Neil.
What do we do all the time, right, Neil?
Yeah.
We do.
But you guys deserve an honorary PhD for all the work you do and what you know.
I am close.
We feel extremely humbled by it, but we don't try to reach for it.
What did it say in Philippians, too?
He did not think it worthy to grasp equality with God.
Okay, we're not grasping.
Yeah, but he also became obedient unto death.
You don't want to go there.
Right, right.
Well, welcome.
Two greats are here today.
Welcome to MythVision.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Dr. Crane, our goal today is to put some stuff before you you may not have considered coming
from Dennis's work, and it's not that you have been reluctant to try and pay attention.
I honestly do think it's going to sound a bit conspiratorial, but I do think that Dennis
has been ignored purposefully because what he is proposing flips everything people have
built on its head.
It's hard for them to factor in an entire different genre of material.
They love going, it is written, and that's real easy to go to Hebrew Bible.
Very difficult to say these people were that sophisticated to have a complexity of ideas
from both the Greek novels, epics, tragedies, et cetera, and Hebrew scripture from LXX.
So Dennis has obviously blown me away.
I am fully convinced that he has certain, there are certain, I'll say, stories and
narratives in the Gospels that I am convinced of.
There are others that I'm not so sure, but it's not that they aren't the case.
It's just they're not as strong.
But if you've already been convinced of the strong stuff, you at least have to say, maybe
he's right about this.
I don't know for sure.
Okay.
Giving a plug to our audience for you, and I'm going to bring up our little shared
screen here.
First of all, the book, sorry, I got to stop sharing the screen and re-show the screen,
get a little plug for you all.
But here's the book.
I hope everybody will get a copy of it.
It's more of a guide or a tool than it is like I'm just reading a regular book.
Very complex.
He gets into the Greek.
He does stuff in this book that nobody has done, translating certain works like the Byzantine
Chintones, the Homeric Chintones, if you will, and the Byzantine writings and stuff.
There's certain things he translates that haven't been translated before in this book,
and I hope that our audience will get a copy.
Can you tell us about your website, Dr. Crane?
Yes.
Well, we built what's a digital library, and we've been working on this for 40 years.
We're best known for our collections of Brecarum and Antiquity, but we also have a number of
other collections which are visible there.
What you see here is an older site that's been in operation for quite some time and
is in the process of being replaced.
In fact, I'm skipping a meeting, retiring this website and going on to the next version
of Perseus to attend this conversation.
Wow.
Anyway.
I just want to jump in real quick just to say this website is probably the most useful
tool that I have in my tools that I use, just as somebody who's dependant.
I can't tell you how much I use it every single day, every single day.
I'm always going on Perseus.
Me and my friends, we call it Alice.
Let's see what Alice in Wonderland.
Let's go deep into Alice to see what these words were used for in certain contexts.
Any word you click on the word, it'll say play to use it for this text, or, you know,
Calces use it for this text, and it's like going deep into Alice in Wonderland, looking
at all how these words were used throughout time.
It's amazing.
Gregory, I not only use it like that, but my students have, and because it's online
and it's available through university sources, it's been really a marvel, and it's a real
privilege to be able to talk to you.
Yeah.
Well, I just want to say something about this community, and your kind words there.
I grew up in one of the richest cities in the United States, Greenwich, Connecticut,
and I became fascinated with Greek when I was in high school, Greek and Latin, but Greek
in particular, and at that time it was impossible, literally impossible to put your hands on any
sources in the richest, you know, public library, the richest city in the country, roughly.
You couldn't order them.
They weren't in print.
So I really developed a passion for making things available to the broadest possible
audience because my model is always myself as a younger person.
So seeing Derek and Neil, in particular, who are not in academic institutions, saying
they're able to engage with the primary sources in this way, it really makes my life.
Of course, yeah.
As does this whole, the fact that you're having this kind of truly intellectual venue.
So it's super exciting to make.
Yeah, beautiful.
Well, we're here to roll out the red carpet.
Of course, even Dennis is rolling out his red carpet for you.
But we're also hoping in hopes that using all your critical faculties, but that you
actually are engaging and seeing what we say today, and we'd love to get your take by the
end of the episode or even by the end of a certain example to say whether or not this
is convincing to you or not as somebody who's coming at this neutral, but loves the Greek
world and yet knows, of course, the Gospels go right into the same category because they're
Greek literature.
So we want to get your take at the end of the day, and I want to promote people to go
support what you're doing, check out your website.
And then, of course, Dennis, the last person I want to give a little plug to is my dear
friend Neil.
Neil's been working very hard.
Neil has a YouTube channel for those who don't know who might be new to MythVision because
we've got some new people joining in.
Go subscribe to Gnostic Enformment.
He's my sidekick.
Me and him don't agree on everything under the sun, but we love each other.
And he's my brother, and I hope that more people will see that and recognize that even
if you disagree with things that I might say or he might say or whatever.
But go subscribe to Neil.
He's in the description as well, and he has a late night gnosis kind of a clip channel
where he does shorter little clips from, look right here's Dennis McDonald, how the Gospels,
well, we're getting a little hype with the titles, but how they steal from Homer, right?
We're Dennis McDonald, of course, Bart Ehrman, et cetera.
The list goes on, but go show him some love as well.
Now that we've done our little shameless plug, gentlemen, is it time we dive into the deep end?
Sure.
Should we enter Alice in Wonderland now?
All right, I'm down.
Dennis, would you want to start with the the Demoniac narrative?
No, let me start with the Eureklia episode.
OK, my favorite one.
This Gregory was one of the real gems that I found later on in doing my investigation.
And this is a story that is very well known to you, but probably not to most of the viewers.
And so I'm going to take liberties in reading a summary of kind of data points in the narrative
that go with Odyssey 19, the Niphthra.
And then I'm going to compare it with something in the Gospel of Mark, and I'm going to do it serially.
So I'll do the Odyssey story first to create a narrative and then look at the the equivalents in Mark 13 and beginning of 14.
Can we get it on the screen while and if you want me to read it, I'll read it for you if you want.
No, this is a different list.
OK, the one you've got still is.
So just to be sure, I'm on the right thing here.
Let me get this right.
Are you guys seeing the text?
No, there it is.
Oh, you just brought it down.
OK, go ahead.
OK, is it conspiracy to kill 193?
Yes, but if you scroll back a page or two, you'll you'll see.
An excursus.
And that'll have some of this material.
I've got the wicked binder.
No, no, no, no, no, go forward a little bit.
Sorry for this.
A generous widow.
No, no, no, keep going, keep going.
Excursus 25 Marks.
OK, there it is.
The anointing woman right there, right there.
OK.
OK, Odysseus has kept his identity a secret from the suitors
so he can avoid getting killed.
For the first time in 20 years, Odysseus
is going to see Penelope.
And he goes to his house with Telemachus, his son,
who was amazed at the great light that's
shown on the walls of the house.
Telemachus goes off, but Odysseus goes to Penelope
and sits down.
Penelope, in private, questioned her husband,
who's still in disguise.
And Odysseus answered and then gave her the signs
that she had asked, the Samatha, that he had seen her husband
and when he might return.
That very day, Odysseus was consulting the oak
sacred to Zeus at the Dona.
Quote, he is near.
That is, he himself is near.
All the, again, a quote, all these things will come to pass.
Tada, ponta, teletste.
No one in Ithaca knew if or when Odysseus would return.
The suitors were prepared to kill Telemachus and Odysseus.
The suitors feared harm from the people of Ithaca.
After giving his prophecy to Penelope,
Odysseus disguised as a beggar sat by himself.
Eurycleia entered with a bowl of water and washed her feet.
Later, she anointed him generously with oil.
That's a quote.
When he recognized, she recognized her master.
She dropped her, his leg into the breast vessel,
spilling the water.
She alone recognized her king.
Malantho, the wicked slave woman,
had objected to Penelope's generosity to a poor beggar.
And she committed a masprous act.
The name Eurycleia means renowned far and wide.
Odysseus and Eurycleia discussed the disloyalty
of some of the female slaves then.
Here's the Markin story.
Dennis, just a quick question.
Are you reading from this page that we're looking at?
No, I am not.
No, I'm not.
Are you reading from something I prepared for today?
Got it.
Jesus keeps his identity a secret so that his opponents cannot
kill him.
One of Jesus' disciples was amazed
at the great buildings in the Jerusalem Temple.
Jesus went to the Mount of Olives and sat.
Four of the disciples in private
asked him about the destruction of the temple.
And Jesus answered and gave them the sign,
the Simeon, when he would return.
That's the equivalent of Semata in Homer.
The disciples should consult the fig tree,
like Odysseus consulting the oak at Dodona.
He is near.
All these things will take place.
Pantatata genetai.
It's like a man on a journey.
Keep watch because you do not know when the Lord of the house
is coming.
And quote, quote, the chief priests and scribes
were seeking some deceitful way to arrest and kill him.
The authorities feared a popular uprising.
After giving these prophecies to four disciples,
Jesus sat at a table at the humble home of Aleppo.
And Odysseus had spent his time with Eumaeus, his swine herd.
A woman entered with an expensive stone jar of ointment
and poured the contents on Jesus' head.
She broke the jar to release the oil.
She alone recognized that Jesus soon would die.
People at the meal objected to the woman's
extravagant anointing.
The ointment could have been sold and money given to the poor.
Jesus then says she has done a beautiful act, a colon ergon.
Whereas it was a mega-ergon that Melantho had committed.
Jesus declares that what she has done
will be remembered wherever the good news is preached.
Eurelia means renowned far and wide.
Quote, then Judas Iscariot, one of the 12,
went to the chief priests for the purpose of betraying him.
Now, this cluster of motifs are dense.
They're sequential.
They're meaningful.
And they satisfy many of the criteria of mimesis
that I've incorporated into mimesis criticism.
And I think it's very difficult to explain these similarities
in terms of a common genre.
Can I just jump in and emphasize a few things real quick?
Because we have the sequence happening in both texts,
where in both texts you have either Odysseus or Jesus
basically predicting the future in a sense involving a tree.
Then immediately followed by both of them having their feet
rubbed or anointed by a woman.
In this case, in the case of Odysseus, it's Eurycleia.
The woman that anoints the feet of Jesus,
she's told that her fame would be told far and wide.
Eurycleia, which is the name of the woman who
rubbed Odysseus' feet, that word in Greek
means fame far and wide, which means
it's almost as if Jesus is literally putting
upon on the name of the woman who anointed the feet of Odysseus.
Right.
Now, in the synopsis, you will see actually
my translation of some lines from the Homeric Chantones.
And there, these authors are retelling the story
by using lines from.
What page is that, Dennis?
If you scroll down a little bit.
Is it right after the actual, because this
is the blocks that compare both stories?
Yeah, keep.
No, no, I don't.
I was in the 400 or something.
It could be.
Oh, that's right.
It's in it's in.
I kind of do want to let people be able to pause the video
and look at this so they can see it.
It's kind of important, I think.
So these are the comparisons.
And there's sequential.
He has seven criteria, Dr. Crane,
that he is methodologically trying to say,
if it meets these, it's strong.
Some of his examples, obviously, Dennis,
I don't even have to speak for you, you say, aren't as strong.
Like, you admit you're not even sure if some of these really
meet the criteria in terms of, are they really something?
Is are we stretching a little, or maybe it is something
we just can't prove that that's the case.
But with your methodology, this is one of them
that is at the upper clear comparison.
Yeah, that's right.
Let's, if Professor Crane, any thoughts on this so far?
Well, I just want to point out that as I was following along
the passage in Mark, Mark 14.7, I actually noticed the word
that I hadn't realized was there.
Because I'm familiar with the idea,
the poor you will have with you always.
Or we will have with you always.
And the Greek is always, for always,
you will have the so-and-so's with yourselves.
But the word they use isn't the word I would use for poor.
It's beggars.
It is, in fact, precisely the same word.
That's true.
This is, which I hadn't expected.
So there are other, so again, I don't want to overemphasize it.
But it did catch my eye and make me pause
for a second in this context.
Well, actually, I was debating that.
But the other type of cases of tochos in Mark
indicate it's more of a class of poverty.
Sell your goods and give to the patroch.
So it's just a matter of consistency.
But you are precisely right that the word that
is used for DCS as the beggar is tochos.
Can I read these boxes?
Well, we just did so.
But sure, you can.
Just to briefly summarize for the audience again,
the Odyssey 19s on the left, Mark's narrative is on the right.
Why don't you read it?
Odyssey, I'll read Mark.
We just go back and we just keep copying.
They can hear the story back and forth.
OK, I won't be able to read the Greek.
So if you want to butt in on that Greek there.
No, no, ignore the Greek.
OK, let's get people who know we can see.
Ignore going back and forth here.
Lemakus was amazed at the great light that
shone on the walls of his house.
Odysseus interpreted the light as the presence of Athena.
One of Jesus' disciples was amazed at the great buildings
in the Jerusalem Temple.
Jesus predicted that these buildings will be destroyed.
Odysseus went to Penelope and sat.
Jesus went on the Mount of Olives and sat.
Now, I could see why someone might go, OK, some of these
aren't like verbatim, like that's the point.
None of it's Xerox copy.
Anyway, Penelope in private questioned her husband in disguise.
Four of the disciples in private
asked him about the destruction of the temple.
And might I add, of course, Jesus technically in Mark
is disguised.
Nobody really knows who the hell he is.
Good point.
He's purposefully not known.
Anyway, Odysseus gave her signs that he had seen her husband
and that he would soon return.
Jesus gave the sign when he would return.
That very day, Odysseus was consulting the oak sacred
to Zeus at Dodana.
The disciples should consult the fig tree.
He is near.
He is near.
All these things will come to pass.
Until all these things take place.
No one in Ithaca knew if or when Odysseus would return.
It is like a man on a trip.
Keep watch, because you do not know when the Lord of the House
is coming.
The suitors were prepared to kill Telemachus and Odysseus.
The chief priests and scribes were
seeking some deceitful way to arrest and kill him.
The suitors feared harm from the people of Ithaca.
The authorities feared a popular uprising.
After giving his prophecies to Penelope,
Odysseus disguised as a beggar sat by himself.
After giving these prophecies to four disciples,
Jesus sat at the table in the humble home of a leper.
Eurycleia entered with a bowl of water to wash his feet.
Later, she anointed him generously with oil.
A woman entered with an expensive stone jar of ointment
and poured the contents on Jesus' head.
When she recognized her master, she dropped his leg
into the brass vessels spilling the water.
She broke the jar to release the oil.
She alone recognized her king.
She alone recognized that Jesus soon would die.
Melantho had objected to Penelope's generosity
to the poor, not showing hospitality to Odysseus.
The beggar was performing a monstrous act.
People objected that the ointment could
have been sold and the money given to the poor.
Jesus told them she had performed a beautiful act.
Eurycleia means renowned far and wide.
Penelope told her that one who welcomes strangers
will have fame far and wide.
Jesus said, wherever the good news is proclaimed
throughout the world, what this woman has done
also will be spoken of in her memory.
Odysseus and Eurycleia discussed the disloyalty
of some of the slaves.
Then, Judas is scared yet went to the chief priest
for the purpose of betraying him.
All right.
Let's talk, I guess, briefly again.
Thoughts, Professor Crane, obviously,
what's your first reaction to that?
You know, there's more elements there
than I would have thought of.
And there are things like the odd episode
with a light on the walls in the Odyssey,
which is kind of a strange,
I've always wanted to be a bit of a strange,
unmotivated action, but it's showing
some sort of divine presence.
I'll say that, first of all, a general thing
about how people would think about this kind
of comparison, there's always been a tension
for, you know, since the beginning
between Christian literature
and non-Christian Greek literature.
And, you know, attention among the early Christians
about what you should be reading and thinking about.
But that would really be stronger later on
when there was a Christian literature to focus on.
And wouldn't be the case when the gospels
are composed early on, where there was very venting
this thing.
But a thing that I think everybody needs
to think about is that anybody who was educated
and spoke Greek would, in fact, have grown up,
probably memorizing, you know, with large chunks
of hemorrhagic poetry in their heads.
I was just reading an ancient Greek grammar,
talking about how Greek works.
And I went by Dionysius Thrax,
and I was just surprised to see
that he uses Homeric Greek.
I mean, Homeric Greek is not standard,
but that's what you're using to learn your own language,
even though it's an earlier archaic form.
So when people come to assess parallels
between things of the Homeric epics
and things of the New Testament,
I don't, I think you really have to,
you would really have a hard time having in your own head
a sense of how sensitive people would be
to these similarities.
Because you would really be much more primed for
in a way that no one can imagine.
Why?
Is it fair to say, Dr. Crane,
that what's happened in New Testament studies
in your estimation is that we've gotten so caught up
on focusing on this kind of Judaism,
and we've got to find LXX and scripture,
and like we almost forget they're written in Greek.
It's almost like we've lost the fact that it's,
it's in the zeitgeist of the Mediterranean
in which this material is coming out.
So nobody's denying, everyone knows Dennis most of all.
And I think they think he's only focused on Greek.
They haven't read his work.
He's clearly saying, I know LXX, his teacher,
like is one of the famous ones who showed the memesis
and Mark going to Elijah and Elisha and showing the Bible.
But Dennis himself is saying, yes, yes, yes,
and let's look at this.
And this is what makes him unique.
So what do you think of that?
Am I right in assessing that New Testament scholarship
is doing themselves a disservice
by not noticing what you're describing here
about the Greek education and knowing this material?
Well, let's just think about how people,
the formation that most people receive.
And I'll go back to historically the invention
of the kind of study of Greek and Latin that we do in the United
States, you can go back to 1776 in Germany,
where a young man by the name of Friedrich Wolf
walked across Germany to Dürtingen, matriculated,
and they said, he said he wanted to study philology.
And they said, kid, this doesn't exist.
And they said, what do you want to do?
And he said, I want to read Greek and Latin.
And they said, oh, you mean theology.
And he said, no, because if I study theology,
I have to be orthodox.
And I want a space where I don't have to be told
what to think and how to think as a good Lutheran.
And not clear of this event actually happened
the way he described it, but it does reflect a split.
So when I was, as Dennis was studying at Harvard,
there was a complete separation of the New Testament world
from the classical Greek and Latin world.
That's exactly right.
And I remember being kind of shocked
when I was a graduate student,
when I started to work with a Harvard Theological Review
and Helmut Kester.
Yeah, yeah, he was my thesis advisor, yeah.
And I'd already taken Bip of Hebrew with Teo Lambden,
but you would go there, it was like a parallel universe.
It was like a Star Trek episode,
where there are these two unit groups
that are living in the same space
and don't know anything about each other.
Gregory, let me give you a story of someone you know.
When I made some discoveries with the acts of Andrew,
which I edited, and some Homeric and Euripidaean parallels,
actually some Platonic ones too, quite fascinating work.
And Andrew becomes the new Socrates and so on.
But I became very good friends with Albert Lord
after he retired.
And you remember, he had an office at Weidner.
So we'd go over there and then go to the Faculty Club
for lunch on many occasions.
And one of the takeaways with him was,
how is it, Dennis, that the Homeric epics,
which are so foundational to Greek identity
in the Roman Empire, in the early Empire,
is entirely absent in the literature
of the study of the New Testament.
And he said, somebody's got to correct that.
Now, I'm hoping to correct that.
And Albert Lord was such a dear man
and such a phenomenal scholar.
His approach to the epics is different from mine
because of his oral formulaic commitments and so on.
But he certainly knew the literature well
and was a champion for such singers of tales.
And so that has stuck with me.
Now, I may be wrong about half of my suggestions,
but I'm not wrong about all of them.
And it doesn't require that the reader or the author
is a first-class intellectual.
It's a part of the social identity discourses
and struggles.
So I think they are kind of want to be Virgil's
in the Aeneid, where Virgil in the Aeneid
is carving out Roman identity by a synchrosis
with the Homeric epics and doing mimesis all over the place.
That early Christians are carving out
their own social identities by crafting narratives
that represent a synchrosis with the heroes of the Greek world.
Now, they're not trying to deceive anyone,
but they're not trying to write histories either.
They're trying to craft alternative narratives
to sustain the images they have of their own in-group
and in various outgroups.
And the best way to do that is to take what was known
and what was the most popular thing in the world,
at least at the time, and what everyone worked off of.
By the way, James Tabor's showing love in the chat.
Dr. Tabor says, don't forget,
80 knock was there, but maybe after your time.
His two volume collection of essays
is stunningly enlightening for Hellenistic mystic motifs.
Good to see you in the chat, James.
Oh, yeah, I mean, but one of the things that is different
is that, by the way, New Testament scholars now
are not ignoring Greek and Latin literature,
but they're using Greek and Latin literature
that is more or less contemporaneous with the New Testament
and ignoring Greek poetry and not just Homer,
but also the Tragedians.
And as you know, and as Perseus Project is trying to correct,
Archaic Greek is a different kind of Greek
than Koine Greek, and it takes certain kinds
of special training to be able to be facile with poetry.
So there's a kind of allergy to poetry, I think,
in the study of early Christian texts, unfortunately.
In the study of it.
Couple super chats here.
I wanna get these before we get to one of my favorites,
the Polyphemus Cersei and the Demoniac story.
I love this one, and I hope that I'm not only getting
Dr. Crane on board with this.
I suspect you might have already a glimpse into it,
but I'm wanting to get the audience,
the 210 people to vote in the chat
whether Dennis McDonald's work convinces you,
it doesn't, or you're on the fence.
And so hopefully by the time we do some of this,
you can change your vote if you said no,
or if you go from no to on the fence,
that's even better than saying absolutely no,
but I am interested in getting people to see,
and if they don't see it, I can't make everyone.
Constellation Pegasus says,
why didn't the Greeks recognize a copycat scenario
and reject the gospels?
How much authority the Greek gods have
on the population at these times
after the last gospel was written?
I assume the general population knew these Greek stories.
Well, the last point is clear,
and we, yes, the general population knew these stories.
Now, why, if they recognize the similarities,
did they not reject the gospels?
Because the gospels are not presenting Jesus
or the apostles or anyone as identical to the Greek models,
but as superior to them.
So it's a matter, again, of synchrosis,
of a kind of competition.
Now, how much authority did the Greek gods have
on the population at these times?
It depends on what one means by authority.
Certainly this literature had an authority,
and we have lots of skepticism about the Greek gods.
We have forms of atheism and antiquity.
We have lots of popular religion about the gods,
but people knew about the gods,
and early Christians engaged that.
By the way, Jews had done so earlier than that, too.
And so you find in Third Maccabees, for example,
the Jewish god is compared positively against Dionysus.
So that one finds a struggle among the gods
and early Christian and Jewish heroes.
And so you don't reject the gospels.
You actually appreciate, if you're in that in-group,
you appreciate the differences
because your team hero is better than the other team hero.
And then one more constellation.
Thank you for the love today.
Can't put my finger on why these evidently educated authors
wrote the gospels.
They're so late in history,
it seems like they were rebelling with counterculture,
rebels of sorts to change something,
and they did in a huge way.
Yeah, they are, they're changing something.
And that's why they're invested in this.
The same way that Virgil is trying to reshape
ancient Trojan identity to make it congenial
to the reforms under Caesar and Augustus.
But you also see this with going back
to the ancient Assyrian Sumerian texts
where they're taking texts from Enlil and Anu
and then making it in the Marduk and change.
It's like, there's another, it's sort of similar.
I don't know if you'd call it in Mimises,
but there's definitely polemics happening.
Well, as the Greeks called-
Oh, God was good, but our God did the same thing,
but did it even better?
Well, sometimes the Greeks called it Zealos,
or Zealusus, that is a rivalry.
And so Mimises can be both sympathetic,
but it can also be agonistic.
And to engage a culture is often to engage its mythologies.
I'm with you, yeah, we see it with,
even if it isn't opposing,
like you'd imagine different type of tribes
or different people groups,
you look at the Anzu myth with the mythological bird
that predates Marduk,
you can see even in their own society,
they were doing it to their own myth.
So-
That's right, that's right.
And the same thing with the Jews.
I imagine they did it to their own,
and this is why you have,
I think so many competing rabbinic writings
of like how to interpret,
and they're doing it with their own scriptures.
So there's all sorts of fun stuff.
It's complex, it's not just simple.
One of my Harvard professors, Albert Hendricks,
actually did a beautiful study
of not having one Dionysus
and not just two Dionysuses,
but a whole slew of them.
And so that Dionysian tradition was really quite plastic.
Are you ready to get into the Cyclops, everybody?
No, I wanna hear a little more from Professor Crane.
Okay, I would too.
Okay, so first of all, I will admit,
I'm really, I find this very compelling
for a variety of reasons
where I'm predisposed to find it compelling.
I've already mentioned the fact that the people
who composed the Gospels did not live
in a Christian, not Christianized counterculture
that had emerged and was self-sufficient.
They were living in as products,
least linguistically of a Greek,
linguistic and literary culture.
So they, a couple of hundred years later,
you might be able to separate yourself off a bit,
but not then, so this was their world.
Secondly, my view of the Iliad and the Odyssey,
which I developed when I was doing my dissertation,
was I really believe that the Iliad and the Odyssey
are rips that split up the Gogomish Epic
in two different stories.
And that I ended up studying Akkadian Sumerian
in some Hittite because I came to see
archaic Greek culture as part of a network
of interacting cultures that extends well into the Middle East.
The Yale Greco-Arabist, or one Yale Greco-Arabist
said that the West begins at the Hindu Kush.
And there's some, I think there's a lot of truth in that.
So the idea that if you're producing the Gospels,
that your reference point would be the Iliad and the Odyssey,
Odysseus and Achilles, I'd be surprised if it wasn't.
And the only surprising thing is that you do not get
the kind of explicit engagement with Greek poetry
in the Gospels that you would see
in other contemporary literature.
But that doesn't mean it's not going on.
Well, you're familiar with the word
East of the Helicon by West and so on.
He makes a case quite similar to yours.
And that was, I was happy to see that
when he started working on that.
So, yeah, nice.
I love the way that you said that.
And please interrupt me if ever I'm
bloviating on a subject or something
because I love hearing what you're saying, Dr. Crane.
And I'm sure you're gonna have a lot that we can learn.
I know I'm learning every day I talk to Dennis.
And I know I'd love to connect with you more often.
And me and Neil, Neil was really telling me about you.
And I was like, okay, we need to talk to him more.
We need to get you in, especially with the work
that you've done.
So I'm really appreciative of you being here.
And I found Professor Crane, actually, weirdly enough,
in this text right here, it's a landmark Thucydides.
And I'm reading the back and there's an appendix.
There's an article about, well,
I don't know if you call it an article,
but it's a chapter about religious festivals
in Thucydides.
And I was like, oh, this, and it was,
I was really, it was really well written.
And then all of a sudden it says, okay,
Gregory Crane, Classes Department, Tufts University.
And then I went up, as I'm always doing,
I'm always going on Perseus Tufts.
And then I see the name on the corner of the screen.
I was like, oh my God, it's the same guy.
And then that's why I looked you up on Twitter
and reached out to you to get you on.
Cause I was like, I couldn't believe it.
I was like, it's the same guy.
This is one of those weird coincidences.
Thank you again.
I'm gonna get to this fun story here.
And this story really, when I first heard it,
before I had met Dennis, I was like, that's pretty cool.
I had no way to know whether it was true or not.
Even my methodology at the time was not,
I had, I have to confess, I had come from just,
there was no strict, rigorous methodology in my thinking.
I just was trying to figure out what was the truth.
And so we got Marx, Garrison, Demoniak,
and Homer's Polyphemus and Cersei story,
which take place in books nine and 10 in the Odyssey.
They're the adventures.
Of course, Jesus is on some adventures, right?
He's on that massive sea, right?
That sea of Galilee that Porphyry said,
what are you doing Christians?
You made that up cause it was never called a sea
before you guys wrote your gospels, hint, hint.
Kind of interesting that they're calling it a sea.
I've been there, you could see all sides of that lake,
even though it is a big lake, I admit.
It, it's not this sea.
And so Dennis got me thinking and I was like,
all right Dennis, let's, let's dive into this.
Do we, Dennis, do we want to just go to the parallel boxes
and maybe you give us an airplane view
of what you're seeing going on.
And then we can, me and Neil can do the reading thing.
I think you and Neil should just go ahead and read it.
Sounds good to me.
And so then Professor Crane and I can jump in
and we need to feel free to like cut me off
or anything like that.
Me and Neil will do this.
I'll start with the Odyssey nine and 10.
And just so that I do think it's important to say
to those who've never read the Odyssey,
don't even know what we're dealing with.
There's two books here within the same Homer's Odyssey.
Two books side by side, they're in chronological order.
They're right next to each other.
The first one, he goes to the island
with the Cyclops named Polyphemus
and the next story is going to be Cersei the Witch.
But the author of Mark would have known this story.
So let me go ahead.
Let me interrupt you just to say this.
And Professor Crane certainly knows this.
These two stories were imitated over and over and over again.
They were talk boy for literary creativity.
And you found imitations of both of them,
for example, in Virgil.
You have both of them imitated in the satires of Lucian,
which means that they were probably common property
to intellectuals, Greek speaking intellectuals
in the Roman Empire.
So we're not talking about, you know,
stories that are kind of tucked away
in the battles of the Iliad.
We're talking about stories that are really quite generative
of other kinds of narratives that are riffing on it.
And so what we find in the Gospel of Mark
is a riff on these really popular stories.
Thank you, Dennis.
All right, we're going to read it.
You ready, Neil?
Yeah, let's go.
Let's have some fun, man.
Odysseus and his crew sell to the land
of the Cyclops and of Cersei.
Jesus and his disciples sell to the region of the garrisons.
On the mountains of the Cyclops, innumerable goats grazed.
Cersei turned soldiers into swine.
On the mountain, a large herd of swine grazed.
Odysseus and crew disembarked.
Jesus and his disciples disembarked.
They encountered a savage, lawless giant
who lived in a cave.
They encountered a savage, lawless demoniac
who lived among the caves.
Polyphemus usually was depicted nude.
The demoniac was literally nude.
Cersei recognized Odysseus and asked him not to harm her.
Odysseus swear me an oath,
not to plan another plot to hurt me.
The giant asked if Odysseus intended to harm him.
The demoniac recognized Jesus and asked him not to harm him.
I adjure you, by God, do not torment me.
The giant asked Odysseus his name.
Jesus asked the demoniac his name.
Odysseus answered, nobody is my name.
Jesus, I'm sorry, the demoniac answered Legion is my name.
Odysseus subdued the giant with violence and trickery.
Cersei's magic turned Odysseus soldiers into swine.
Jesus subdued about 2,000 demons with divine power
and sent them into swine
and then drove the swine into the lake.
Polyphemus the shepherd called out to his neighbors.
The swine herds called on their neighbors.
The Cyclops came to the site
asking about Polyphemus's stolen sheep.
The garrisons came to the site
to find out about their swine.
Odysseus and crew embarked.
Jesus and his disciples embarked.
Odysseus told the giant to proclaim
that he had blinded him.
Jesus told the healed demoniac
to proclaim what God had done for him.
The giant asked Odysseus now aboard ship to come back.
The demoniac asked Jesus now aboard ship
if he could be with him.
Odysseus refused the request.
Jesus also refuses the request.
Odysseus and his crew sailed away.
Jesus and his disciples sailed away.
Odysseus awoke during a tempest
in the episode immediately following
the story of the Cyclops.
Jesus awoke during a tempest
and calm the wind and sea
just before exercising the demoniac.
Those are the parallels.
And if I can just add one comment Dennis
that I found fascinating
and it was recently that I heard you make the comment
when you paralleled them.
And then I'd love to hear Dr. Crane's thoughts on this.
The legions represent we know Rome
or the Roman army.
These are soldiers representative
in the name of the demon.
They're cast into swine, little pigs
just like Cersei transforms real soldiers
Odysseus' warriors into pigs.
And so this is too much for me not to go, come on.
And then notice the pigs drown.
Well, in the Odysseus story, the soldiers in that
that when the storm, the tempest blows the ship
and they literally drown,
all the soldiers drown other than Odysseus.
So you have in a weird way, of course, a rewrite
but it's clearly connected.
I can't see how, and I want to add one more caveat
that I think is interesting.
I'm friends with everybody
and I interview massive amounts of academics.
I had Delcey Allison Jr on
and I did a history or not series, right?
I consider him conservative in many respects
but he's also very liberal compared to a real,
real fundamentalist or evangelical or something like that.
And he's very smart.
And I said, what do you think about Mark?
What's history and what's not?
He goes, I don't know what to do with this demoniac story
because he's a very honest scholar.
And I said it sounds condescending
but in my head while recording I was like,
I do know what to do with it.
It's so obvious to me
because I'm looking at sources
you haven't even permitted yourself
to really allow to be the answer.
So what do you say to this narrative?
Well, I want to say, I want to give you a footnote to that.
Please. The insignia for the 10th legion
that destroyed Jerusalem at its temple was the boar.
There were boars on the insignia
and in some of the-
That is mind blowing right now.
It's amazing.
So wait, when was the 10th legion in service?
From what?
Well, under Vespasian and Titus.
So they were the occupying legion in Judea for the Jewish war.
Wow, that is mind blowing.
I did not know that.
See, this is-
I should have said it in the book, I guess.
Yeah, that's really interesting.
Oh, Dr. Crane, what do you think?
What's interesting that some people might argue
that the fact that you spliced features
from the Cersei episode and the Polyphemus episode
weakens the case.
On the other hand, what you get in the Odyssey
are alternations between threats of destruction
and threats of seduction.
You know, lotus-eaters, sidewalks.
Oh, that's right.
Yeah, that's right.
And so, and you actually,
you can see how the same story pattern can flip.
So most of Odysseus's men are killed by the Lystergonians
and his ships hangs behind everybody else.
The rest of them go downtown
and they go, they're led by a princess
who takes them to see the queen.
It looks like it does not like them
and they just turn to the giants and eat them all alive.
That's right, that's very good.
It's met by Nausicaa, the king's father.
And she says, my mother,
my mother's one, you've got a charm
and he goes in there and he shows up,
he's hidden, made invisible,
it suddenly appears there is a pause and he's accepted.
But it's the same story pattern as the Lystergonians.
You have the same alternation of feasts.
You have cannibal feasts
and you have feasts of generosity,
like the fiacians in Menelaus and Nestor,
but you have the suitors
who are eating people out of house and home.
But there's one more one could add
in my reading of returitions.
There are letters of advice to future authors,
not to be dependent just on one model
lest you be thought to be plagiarizing.
They don't have the same definition of plagiarism,
but they did have some suspicion of it.
And then if you have more than one model,
it shows your creativity.
So it's like a bee that go, you know this image,
a bee that goes from flower to flower,
connecting, collecting nectar
in order to make narrative honey.
And there also was kind of a rule
that you should never use more than three models at once
in a narrative.
So frequently you find combinations of two of them,
which shows creativity.
You find the same pattern by the way in Virgil,
where Virgil seldom imitates more than three episodes
in the same episode.
There are exceptions,
but that seems to be part of the pattern.
So some scholars have called this eclectic mimesis
or mimetic hybridity.
And these are things that you no doubt have seen.
Are you convinced there's something going on
with this garrasim demoniac story
and what we're reading over here in book nine and 10?
I'm certainly convinced it's worth thinking about
and that it's interesting to think about.
And that, I mean, it's hard.
I mean, it's like, you know,
if I were using statistical measures,
you can say, well, I've got something
and the probability that it's random is 98,
maybe 90, one in 20, one in 100, whatever it is.
But if it is statistically one in 100,
that doesn't mean it's not, you know,
there's not something there.
So are we seeing similar story patterns?
Yes, did the audience,
the people who produced these gospels
were they immersed in Homeric epic?
Certainly, yes, would be my expectation.
How do you, and even how purposeful
would they necessarily have been in,
or how, to what extent is this,
these are the ways in which they were taught to think.
These are the things they thought with.
Now, Dennis points out, you know,
a genre that's well worth reflecting on,
which are rhetorical exercises,
when grammar school, you would give advice to Odysseus,
or give an ego, you know, make up a story,
a speech for Odysseus to Paula FEMA,
so he doesn't eat his friends.
But you would be put in a position of active composition
based on, you know, your understanding of the story,
or maybe you would have famous rhetoricians
composing things like a defensive hella.
Who was convinced?
That's right, right.
Character.
So, as Dennis said, these are not sacred cows,
these are not things that you look don't touch.
These are things to think with.
By the way, there's a passage in Quintillion, Gregory,
that I like a lot.
He's talking to rhetoricians
about how to put together narratives like that,
and to have a combination of two,
comparing two heroes in synchrosis,
probably, well, obviously,
in order to train them for the law courts,
you know, how to say that your client
is better than another.
But when he encourages them to identify a model,
and it doesn't have to be epic, it could be whatever,
he suggests a, what I call a strategic re-reading
and re-reading and re-reading of the model,
so that it becomes digested.
And so that when one goes then to imitate it,
it's not buchteblech, it's actually more generative,
because you now, like the cow, can pull up the cud and chew it
and make something different.
So I think we still are, in my view,
I don't think the study of rhetoric is in a position
yet to have what I would call a taxonomy of mimesis.
You know, what are the technologies that go into it?
Is it memory?
Is it cultural availability?
Is it this kind of strategic re-reading?
Is it a visual access to a text?
Or is it all of the above?
And my suspicion is it's all of the above.
I was gonna say, I was gonna say,
there's always the possibility that these stories
are so popular and well-known,
that when the new story is being constructed,
it's almost like indirectly influencing
the sequence of events and the stories being written
in the same sort of structure.
And even if that's the case,
it doesn't mean what your work is doing is wrong,
it just means that you're noticing this.
So either way, even if it's not directly trying
to mime, mime, or mime, whatever you say that,
even if it's not doing that on purpose,
there's still something going on,
even if it's by accident or indirectly.
Real quick, Dr. Crane, I wanna take this criticism here,
or at least what I find is a good pushback
to hype the drama of our sequence right here
on this episode, and that's why James Boswell,
and then we'll get to super chats here in a bit.
You are stretching, stretching, stretching,
is what Dr. Crane is actually saying,
but he's saying it nicely.
Is that how you feel, Dr. Crane,
or is James putting words in your mouth?
I would say, I'm still thinking, and it's hard for me to say,
is this supposed to be intentional?
Is it in the air, and the verses absorbed it?
Is there something going on?
And I think what Dennis does,
Dennis, your job is not just to give,
it's not a court of law.
You're not there just to give only those things,
but you're gonna put someone in jail, or whatever.
You're gonna put someone in jail,
you're gonna put someone in jail, or whatever,
only those things, but you're gonna put someone in jail,
or whatever.
Your job is to say, here's an idea,
and I go to explore the idea in as many ways as I can,
and come up with as much evidence as I can,
and it's up to you guys to think about it.
And so it really does, in general,
challenge me to think about what the relationship
between these different stories is.
I would also need to go look at,
to me, until I go back and look at the Greek slowly.
That's right, yeah.
Or to me, also, from summaries to decide what I think.
And so for some of the things,
like the finer element where Odysseus wakes up
during a storm, that may be Eolus,
that may be, that's a little later,
and so that's not quite in the same,
and to my mind, it doesn't feel to be quite in the same frame,
so that's not as convincing as some other things.
How the demoniac, and I don't know enough,
I've not reflected enough on the demoniac myself,
on that element as well, and how odd that is.
I mean, of course, I've heard this story,
I went to a zillion years of Catholic school,
so I've heard this story many times,
and my name is Legion, is in my head,
but I don't know the scholarship on it.
I don't know what it really means.
I will say that I did think about,
at some point, I'd like to do work
on something like a very simple concept,
and I think it's relevant here,
which is the idea of humility,
which you can take for granted in a Judeo,
or a Christian-influenced space.
Nobody ever would have thought
that was a good idea in the classical period.
The word is tapainate, and that means being lonely.
That's right, yeah.
Low class, it means,
I'm not gonna use negative terms,
but it would be a negative term.
Yeah.
And it's like saying, I'm nobody,
I can't tell you how shocking,
to me, the building up of this negative term
into a positive quality, the sort of God,
God becomes flesh bad enough,
and then you're talking about that being tapainos.
Well, Christianity is a big six,
it's thumb in the eye of a classical tradition
of which it emerges.
And so there's this engagement,
but it's so separate, tends to be so separate
that we don't often realize how disruptive
and transgressive this is,
but transgression means you're in a moment or something.
Right, they're fighting against,
and this is exactly what Genesis does
with the Enuma Elish.
In fact, Dr. Matthew Munger, who was just in the chat,
he's a philologist and he knows like,
I don't know, 13, 14 languages or whatever,
but he's like highlighting this,
I know Ronald Hindle's written about
the anti-civilization approach of Genesis 1-11.
Like, while Babylon is all hyping
and having the Apkelu bring civilization
and agriculture and beauty and war
and all that is a good thing,
the biblical text is saying, no, bad, Tower of Babel, bad,
civilization, bad.
So they are rejecting the bigger world in which they live,
and I think the Gospels might be doing that same thing
also by co-opting names and titles of Caesar, et cetera,
to apply to their lowly king who will one day rule the world.
So the least will be first, the head will be the foot,
everything, like you said,
it's flipping everything on its head,
but it can't do that if it doesn't work
with the model in which it's opposing.
That's why I think the memesis position
makes a lot of sense, but just getting to that,
I know you're not convinced you'd have to really examine it,
but you weren't thinking,
oh, they're just stretching everything.
This is all just pulling it out of his butt.
That's not what you're thinking, right?
No, no, and it's not, I mean, what's the useful idea
in this line of work?
It's one that gives you a new reading.
It's one where you've seen,
you've been reading, looking at these sources,
and then you see patterns you'd never noticed before,
and you have to stop to say,
hmm, that's interesting.
And then all of a sudden features that you had skipped over
and maybe vaguely thought,
what's going on here?
You might not have noticed them,
suddenly come out in a full 3D relief,
and it's like you have,
I can see new colors,
and your senses have been expanded.
So this is, I mean, Dennis has written a lot,
so the best hits in a short summary
are enough to get you thinking,
but, and I've done this also,
where you're trying to say this thing
is alluding to that thing,
they could be standing there pointing at it,
and you'll get some scholars will say no.
That's right, that's right.
So I wanna weigh in with this last chat if I could.
Please.
I have not heard Gregory Crane say
that mimesis is not a part
of ancient literary production.
We know that it happens,
and we also know that some parallels
that scholars have drawn between two narratives are nonsense,
and so we know that.
So we're dealing with a spectrum of plausibilities
that go from random associations
to strategic imitations,
and what we need then is some sophisticated criteria
to determine what does this look like?
Do we find other examples of it?
So this is not a response to Gregory,
because I actually agree with him,
but it's a response to the chat.
That such mimesis took place is not the question.
The issue is with any proposed similarities
between two stories, in this case,
the Polyphemus story and the Garrison story,
are there enough points of connection and justification
for making a claim that this is,
I wouldn't say necessarily a literary production,
but it's a cultural rivalry going
between two similar kinds of stories.
And if that's as far as we can get with this one,
that's okay with me.
I love it.
Now, I do wanna end one more thing
before we get to super chats, Dennis,
and if you can find the page number
for the Byzantine, the Homeric Chintones,
I would love for us to turn to that,
because I think in this particular example,
there is one, am I correct on that?
Yes, and I can find it pretty quickly, I think.
Please do.
I know it's in the 400s,
so I'm gonna go down and start to scan it.
Okay, I've got it already.
What's the page number?
348.
Okay, 348, sorry.
Thought it was in the 400s.
All right, I'm gonna find this,
and this might really at least,
because one criteria number seven
in Dennis's methodology is to say,
are there, because look, in the 21st century,
we can maybe be looking for anything, right?
Dr. Cran, I can go and look at an X-Men comic
and go, holy smokes, did they know about something?
Anyway, you can make up stuff,
but in number seven of the criteria,
are there ancient Christian voices
that know what Dennis is saying,
that are looking at this demoniac story
and noticing the Homeric Odyssey connection?
And this is an ancient Byzantine,
what you said, 348?
348.
Is it a Homeric rewritten Gospels
by Byzantine intellectuals?
Yeah, and it's to number 63.
If you get, once you get it up,
then let me read it, because it's a little bit...
Okay, tell me to go forward or backwards here.
So...
Go up, go up, go up, go up a little.
There you go, right there.
Stop, go back a little bit.
There you go, that's all we need.
Okay, so...
But when they...
Sorry, go ahead.
Oh, no, did you want to read it, Dennis?
Yeah, let me read it.
Go ahead.
Resension two of the Homeric centos
establishes the setting for the garrisonemoniac
by borrowing with modest alterations
the beginning of the Polyphemus episode,
not a C9.
But when they arrived at the area
located among the garrisons,
here there was a headland where a cave lay
next to the sea with cascading laurel
as though encircling it.
In it, swine and goats rested at night
and around it, a high tomb was built
with large stones set deep in the earth
with tall pines and high-folded oaks.
Here slept a monstrous man
whom a demon shepherded by itself far away.
He did not engage with others
but lived apart in new only cruel thoughts,
for he had been made into a monstrosity
and was not like a man who eats bread,
but like a wooded peak of high mountains
that looms larger than the rest.
The poets refrained from imitating Odyssey nine
for the rest of the poem.
Instead, they switched to Odyssey 10
in the episode with Searcy.
So Jesus spoke and the demons cried out
and called to him,
as you commanded, let us go to the cry of swine.
So these, by the way, these passages,
as far as I know,
have never been translated into English before.
They're not usually considered because of a late date
and they are actually parasitic on Homer.
They're very difficult to assess.
But I think one can say that these poets
certainly saw similarities between the two stories.
That's different from saying
that they thought the Gospels were imitating Homer.
Rather, they were ornamenting Homer
to make the Gospels more classy, I guess.
So it adds at least the touch of saying Christians
saw enough in the narrative of Jesus to say,
hey, this isn't shockingly different from our ancient,
like some of these seem to jump out of them
or at least some type of pattern
that they would rewrite the Jesus narrative
using Homeric.
That's right.
I guess, window dressing from the Homeric story
into the Gospel narrative, correct?
Yes, we know that that happened
and this is, I think, a pretty good example of it.
Does that, in any way, kind of,
what does that do to your thinking, Dr. Craner?
Well, I think it's pretty much in line
with how I would think about it.
I mean, I like the description.
I think that, I mean, I guess,
I'm just looking up the cantonas right now,
which I've heard of.
I think, I can't even think if we've got,
I don't even think we've got it
in the newest version of Perseus.
So it's not in my intellectual orbit.
It sounds fascinating.
You've got these Byzantine rewritings,
Christianizations of, you know,
middle of Greek myths and Greek literary forms.
But it does, if you have, you know,
a Byzantine person making these connections,
that certainly strengthens the probability
that other people will make these connections.
Yeah.
That's what I thought.
And by the way, to tease our audience,
we do have that course, Dennis.
And we only went over two today.
We only went over two.
We went through Euryclia,
and we went through the Dmoniac.
There are several dozens and dozens and dozens of these
where Dennis is highlighting and showing you and going in.
And a lot of them, some don't have these cantonas,
a lot of them do.
The hemorrhaging with the black blood.
It's like, hold on, that's not in our gospels,
but we see it in the Iliad.
And so there's some really cool stuff that it's like,
there are people who are playing with this.
And if they're playing with it,
it helps at least, like you said,
gives a little strength to what Dennis is doing.
So any comments before we start super chats,
questions and things like that?
I want people who are theologically nervous
about mimesis to chill out.
Because I'm not trying to get anybody
to change their religion.
I'm trying to educate them about a new possibility
in appreciating these texts.
Now, I happen to be an atheist,
but I'm not an atheist because of this.
I'm an atheist because of science.
But I also am a humanist.
And I appreciate what these authors are trying to do
to make sense of the world.
And it's unfortunate in my view
that this work has been used ideologically
for religious controversy on many sides.
Now, it really does call into question
the fundamentalist understanding of divine revelation
and that Jesus did all of these things.
Of course, that's nonsense in my view.
But these authors are doing something quite noble
in their own way for their own culture.
And they're trying to make sense of the world as we all are.
So I don't want my work to be seen as ammunition
in a culture war, except the war
against ignorance and intolerance.
I can dig it.
Any comments from you or can we go to Q&A now or?
Let's go to Q&A.
Awesome, let's see where it goes.
You Saul, forgive me if I butcher it.
Thank you for the super sticker, my friend.
I really appreciate the love.
The empty cross, shouldn't the Jesus's gospels,
even the best non-canonical gospels
be taught in classics programs?
Yes, and the classics are to be taught in seminaries.
Both agree, thank you.
Yellow Psyche, thank you for the super chat.
Is it true that Nonus uses hallelujah, amen,
for Bacchus and Dionysica, sorry.
Dionysia talks, he does.
Yeah, it's a 5th century text,
but I have a better example than that,
because Colomacus in his hymns
in the 3rd century BCE uses it for Artemis.
Oh, is that right, I didn't know that.
Revive the goddess, receive her prayers,
you who have chosen rejoicing, hallelujah goddess,
preserve Argos of Inacos, hallelujah goddess,
you who have driven out the horses, hallelujah goddess,
you who have driven them back home,
save all the estate of the Danans forever.
Well, actually you have a reverse of this statement
by Yellow Psyche, that I didn't,
by the way, I didn't know that, Neil, that's interesting.
But in the Christus Potians, the Theotokos
talks about her women comrades as a theosis,
and they want to come together with their tambourines
and give the avoe.
So you have this crossover between Jesus and Bacchus
or Dionysus frequently, and you find it already, by the way,
in Judaism prior to the early empire.
And I think, if I'm not mistaken,
I think Nones wrote a text about the Gospel of John.
He wrote a paraphrase of the Gospel of John,
and he did so before doing the Dionysiaca,
and the presumption is that he held to both religions
because the Dionysus of the Dionysiaca has Christian traits,
but nonetheless, there's a devotion to Dionysus.
There's so much overlap in his religion,
that's why I love about it.
I love it.
Prodigal bastard, thank you for the super chat.
I sometimes, the names,
you just gotta read people's names here.
Did Jesus' competition, Jesus' competition with pagan gods
serve to elevate his Christology amongst early Christians?
Well, I suppose that's for me.
I don't see any evidence that Jesus competed
with pagan gods himself.
So the issue can be rephrased
was Jesus' competition with pagan gods
in some of the Gospels serving to elevate his Christology.
And I think there's no doubt about it, in my view,
that you have Jesus dies like Hector,
his father, Joseph of Arimathea,
Joseph of Arimathea with his father's name
has to rescue Jesus' corpse,
but Hector's body lies in the ground
and Troy gets destroyed.
Jesus' body rises from the dead,
but Jerusalem is destroyed.
So Jesus here is surpassing Hector
insofar as there's a resurrection from his grave
in a way there wouldn't be for Hector.
So yes, I think as long as we can say
that the portrayal of Jesus as competitive
with pagan heroes and deities,
by the way, it's mostly heroes, not gods,
probably did help shape the Christology of later Christians.
I do wanna mention too, just a point of that,
again, the course that we've done.
Let me pop that up here real quick.
That course, where's it at?
Hiding behind our window here, sorry.
With Dennis goes into even comparing Hector
and Jesus' death.
We go through your examples, of course,
and that is a fun one about Joseph of Arimathea
burying Jesus Prius, Pri, I'm sorry,
going with the help of,
I was at Apollo that was helping him
in terms of getting through at night
with the soldiers going to sleep.
Hermes, Hermes.
Okay, I was thinking of the Aeneid too,
where they fly across the water,
the gods, the flies, the sandals and stuff.
There's all sorts of really cool stuff here to consider.
But yeah, sign up for the course.
The link is in the description.
You will not wanna miss this.
I'm dead serious.
It will blow your mind because it's not just,
like we're not just boringly talking.
There's music, there's visuals,
there's, we're bringing the charts up.
Me and Dennis are going back and forth
and there's all sorts of stuff to learn.
Stupid horror energy.
Hey, if you're going to pledge rise,
you can't go wrong with Homer.
Again, this is not plagiarism.
This is mimesis.
And in fact, the rhetorician said,
when you imitate, make sure that you aren't so wooden
that you could be accused of a mindless plagiarism.
But you're right.
You can't go wrong with Homer, whatever you're doing.
Thank you, thank you.
Prodigal bastard's back.
When the gospels have a parallel with the HB,
what is this?
The Hebrew Bible.
Okay.
And the Homeric poems in one story,
how do you decide which is more likely to be the source?
Good question.
They both are.
If you can make those parallels clear,
they both are.
I'll give you an example
that Professor Crane already mentioned.
Jesus is asleep on board ship.
He wakes up in a gale
and his disciples are fearful and so on.
You have verbal parallels with the story of Jonah.
Okay.
You have verbal parallels with the story of Jonah.
The story of Jonah though is a very different story
from what you find in the gospel of Mark.
And some of its elements are more similar
to the Elis story in the Odyssey.
So I don't think it's an either or.
And I think we've been wrong
in not recognizing cultural hybridity
and that these stories get conflated with each other
in new artistic creations.
It makes you kind of think too.
I mean, this is just,
I'm just throwing spaghetti at the wall to see what sticks.
Maybe Dr. Crane, you can comment on this,
but there's like this competition going on
with against Appian and Joe Seaford and Philo
and like who borrowed from who?
Oh no, you guys borrowed from my Moses guy.
And others are like, no, you guys copied our Greek stories.
We had it first.
No, we had it first.
Why is it that that competition's there?
Is there not overlap?
Hasn't Hellenism steeped into the pores of everyone
to a point where you kind of,
anyone can make that argument at this point
because there's such overlap.
Like you said, cultural hybridity,
that yeah, there are differences,
but there's so much that they're also sharing.
You kind of have to ask, where do they get this from?
So I wonder about that.
And Eusebius is a text called Preparation for the Gospel.
There you go.
He mentions how there are people arguing over,
who is first Orpheus or Moses?
And they're like, well, Moses is the son of,
or Museus is the son of Orpheus.
That must be the Moses.
And then other people are saying, no, no, no.
Orpheus was taught by Moses.
So he has like a paragraph or two paragraphs, I think,
talking about that.
Well, if I could add just one other footnote.
Clement, Phil, Alexander is Preparatio.
I'm sorry, the,
Exhortation in the Greeks?
Yeah, the Protepticus is a marvelous example
of this hybridity.
And because he compares the biblical characters
with Greek characters and mythology
in a very sophisticated way.
If I had, if I could extend my career another 20 years,
I think I'd want to do a new edition of the Protepticus.
Because it really is an overlooked text
for such kind of early Christian brilliant hybridity.
He says in that text that Jesus is the new Orpheus
singing the song of salvation.
That's exactly right.
Yeah.
I saw that.
I saw that.
There's like, do you have Justin Marder also saying,
you know, the way you talk about the sons of Jupiter
and the logos of the Mercury.
So there's these people, they're playing with his ideas.
They're debating them back and forth.
But I want to give Dr. Crane's thoughts on this.
So first of all, I just want to,
I can't resist saying it, Dennis.
I visited my 99 year old mother last week
who's doing quite well.
Thank you.
So you know, don't skimp yourself on 20 years.
Thank you.
Don't give up on it.
So, but I think that this, on the one level,
I think that the, much of the Hebrew Bible is so old.
And dates from the period where there would have been
separation, not a lot of circulation
between what's going on in Greece
and what's going on in the Middle East.
That's true.
Yeah.
So, you know, the idea of which is what first,
they have both are connected to this ancient,
Near Eastern cultural space, you know,
linguistically and culturally.
And that's why, you know, Acadian was kept alive,
probably is still being kept alive at Harvard
by the Northwest Semitic philology,
i.e. Old Testament people who have to learn that language.
But this idea of, you know, this is something
you do not encounter.
This, where are we, are we, you know, Jewish?
Are we Christian, Old Testament, New Testament?
This is not something which is prominent
in the discourse of people who study classical Greek
to our loss.
We are getting fired up about the patrepticas.
And I've passed through Clement of Alexandria
and some of these church fathers,
mainly getting them ready for digital publication.
And you really get me going saying,
well, I should be working on this stuff too.
This is a new kind of enormous amount
of fascinating material that is relatively unstudied.
And it's also philologically very tricky.
And so that you are moving through three different moments
in Greek in order to make sense of the,
and it shows you how brilliant Clement was.
This is one thing I love about Richard C. Miller's work
as well, Dennis, your buddy who lives right there near you.
And he kind of works this model with Starton
making the point of Justin Martyr
that you mentioned there, Neil,
of we believe nothing different
than what you guys do with the sons of Zeus
or Caesars with their apotheosis
and like eyewitness testimony.
All of that is like formulated there
in Justin Martyr's apology.
But it's like, it's almost getting into the,
are the gospels some type of fictional narrative?
And there's this debate today.
You can't get anyone to agree.
Is it biography? Is it this?
Is it historical fiction? Is it mythology?
Is it this?
Like what kind of genre are we dealing with?
I like his model because he goes,
look at the preponderance of Christian literature
that is doing what you're saying, acts of Andrews, Dennis,
where you see clearly it is inspired by Homeric literature.
But it's also fictive.
And he's saying, well, we should apply that,
at least if we see the preponderance of it, it's fictive.
All of this non-canonical quote unquote
that we like to throw around because of orthodoxy.
And we're supposed to get to these and go,
oh, but these talk about these are the historical ones.
And it's like, they all wrote in fictive kind of genre.
And you're gonna say that you get to this force field bubble
that, oh, but these aren't fictive.
These are real actual historical memory
and all the others are fictive.
And I think that taking that model and approaching it
and saying, why do we draw that line and go historical
and then draw that line and go,
oh, these, by the way, that didn't make it
into our holy book, those, by the way, are just fictive.
And that's why we don't accept them.
They're not accurate.
They're not true in the little.
Well, let's be just a little finer about that.
Please.
There are differences among fictions.
There are historical fictions
and there are mythological fictions.
And then there are subcategories there as well.
So fiction doesn't necessarily mean one thing.
And not all fiction is mimetic.
So we, one also almost has to be,
treat every text to be generous
unless you have some reason to say that it's different
than to compare it to something.
So because some people think, well,
if it's fiction, therefore it's false.
Well, no, it's somebody's truth.
And then they're...
Like in just a bad analogy,
but can you imagine someone saying,
Iron Man, the movie, that's false.
Like nobody's questioning
if it's literally historically accurate.
We're all saying, look at the superhero
who came out of the cave,
who overcame all of the enemies around him and such,
or death itself.
Nobody approaches it that way.
But I think once it's become a tool
and become weaponized in the world,
but it has become a tool politically in the empire,
but also it demands you be like us
or you're this heathen or you're a goyim
depending on the kind of context you're in.
You're this non-Christian.
This is where I think you start having these problems
throughout history.
And now today, there's this cultural war.
Like you said, Dennis, you've got fundamentalists,
radical fundamentalists.
This is an errant, infallible, accurate.
Everything described in it is what literally happened.
And that's the battle that I face all the time with you.
Of course it is, yeah.
So, okay.
Next Super Chat is Steven Sorensen.
Any thoughts on trickster, deceptive God's people
in the Greco-Roman world
and specifically in the New Testament?
I'm thinking of scholars like Michael Williams,
Dean Nicholas, John Anderson, Mark Given.
Thank you for the Super Chat.
Well, there certainly are, I'll start, Gregory,
but I'd appreciate your help.
I'm familiar only with Michael Williams,
not with these other scholars.
So I'm kind of out of it.
Certainly there are not only trickster deities,
but most deities can be a trickster on a given day.
So taking various shapes ends,
but Hermes is a trickster, Odysseus is a trickster.
And you find trickster also in not just an epic,
but you find it in tragedy as well.
Whether that is helpful for the New Testament,
I'm not sure.
The theme of secrecy certainly is important.
By the way, you have tricksters also in Hebrew Bible.
So tricksters are not unique to the Greeks.
But I'm not really quite sure what to do
with that question, Steven, I'm sorry.
Dr. Crane, do you have anything?
I mean, it's, again, I'm not,
I have not studied the literature on tricksters.
I just point out, I grew up with a trickster
named Bugs Bunny and Roadrunner,
and they are very much sort of bolderized versions of that.
But you get, and again, I would recommend
reading the Homeric hymn to Hermes.
There you go, yeah, that's a good example, yeah.
Where Hermes steals cattle.
And Odysseus really is the sort of a counterpart
to Achilles and the sort of the mirror image.
I think I'd like just to go back
to the question of what's historical.
And so, you know, unlike Dennis, I'm not an atheist.
I'm not sure what, I'm not an agnostic.
I'm not sure what I am, but I used to go to a church
that, and the minister who was a friend of mine,
I've heard Easter would get very anxious
and just go through the story and say,
if this all didn't happen, as described,
I don't know what I'm gonna do.
And I've read of at least one prominent professor
of theology who lost his faith because he found like,
you know, trivial inconsistencies between the Gospels.
What kind of a faith did you have that you did work?
And-
That's a good question, yeah.
Yeah, it's like pretty naive.
But I'll say that the European continuous tradition
of European historical writing that survives
begins with Herodotus and the opening,
the climax of the opening book,
the center point piece of the opening book
is the meeting between the wise man and the great king.
And it's so long of Athens and Cresus,
the richest man alive.
That's right.
And it's an event that almost certainly did not happen
because the dates are all by a couple of decades.
But it's also one of the truest events in Greek history.
I can teach, you know, at length about everything
that happens here is true.
It just didn't happen.
And it's not mythological, these guys existed.
But, you know, if you pay attention to this
and it gets seriously, you learn an enormous amount.
And that to me is history as opposed to a chronicle.
Let me throw something at you.
Because then you have this, you have the aspect of propaganda, too.
In the Sibylene books, we all know the Sibylene books
throughout history is sort of like this tool of propaganda
where it's like, go and get Magda Mauder from the Phrygians
and bring her to Rome, and then you'll win the war.
And like, do they really believe that?
Or do they admit that people believe that
and they're doing it to get the people,
give people some better energy to fight their wars?
What's going on with those texts?
And then also in the Sibylene texts,
you see them over time start off as traditional pagan stuff
and then they become Jewish Sibylene texts.
Then eventually they're just Christian texts.
So you can see even the Sibylene books
convert their religion over time.
And like the propaganda aspect of it, what do you...
Don't you think there's some...
That's something that should be challenged, right?
What do you mean by challenge?
I mean, isn't it sort of...
I don't know, isn't it sort of dangerous
to use religion as a form of propaganda?
Right?
I mean, I guess I'm criticizing each and every one.
Well, let me phrase it another way.
It can be.
Look at Daniel. We know Daniel fails.
Okay, I think all four of us on here,
what I mean by that is there are predictions.
There's date, clock ticks.
It goes past that time.
What was expected didn't happen.
But as I've interviewed John Collins and others on this,
they go, well, look, yeah, it failed.
But the point in desperation was to give the people hope.
That's right.
And during that, that propaganda
actually may have given the people in the circumstance.
It's like a white lie, if you will.
It's something like telling everyone it's gonna be okay,
even if it's maybe not.
There's a sense in which you don't tell your kids
everything on purpose.
But I'm not even saying that the author
didn't actually believe.
Maybe they really did believe the end was soon,
but they were giving hope to their people
and inspired to do so,
even if they were wrong at the end of the day.
So there's a point in which is that I could see that
being good and useful or, hey, telling your soldiers,
you're half the size of the army you're going up against.
But the gods have said that we will be victorious
and our children will be free.
They will not become slaves.
Today you fight, we win.
You go in, you fight twice as hard
than what you would have if you said,
guys, we're going to get our asses kicked.
Are you ready to die?
No, like, so you kind of wonder,
but there are times I imagine that that propaganda is-
Neil, Neil, I want you to think about something though.
I think your comments helpful,
but I think there's a tendency too frequently,
especially among Christian scholars,
to think that texts are written to convince the outsider.
I think most of the texts that we deal with
are for admirers, for the insider,
so that even something that looks like
it's an attempt to convert outsiders is also,
or primarily intended to fortify the insider
and to then establish the inside-outside boundaries
that are needed for social identity.
So I get skeptical when people say
that a certain text is written to convert an outsider.
It's very hard to get an audience
for a text from an outsider.
It's much easier to get your audience
from somebody who's an insider.
Thank you, Seth, for that.
The father, son, and holy ghost of myth vision,
and then they said, so again, take my money.
Well worth it.
Thank you.
I think of the doubting Thomas story
with what you just said.
I would imagine the reader.
There's a lot of breaking the fourth wall in these books
that I love noticing where they're like,
hey, you see Thomas and you feel,
that's why you believe,
but it's almost like Jesus turns and looks at you
and goes, but blessed are you, the reader,
who do not see yet still believe.
So you're right, I think it's persuading the insider
to hold on, to be steadfast, and don't give up.
That's, I think you're on the number one.
But it's not to say, I wanna double back on it.
Neil, it's not to say that there's not polemical literature.
There certainly is, and it is intended for the outsider.
And the siblings have that propensity
because they're claiming to be revelations from the civil
and not from an insider who's venerated in the community.
So I think the sibling oracles
may be something of an exception.
Interesting.
Okay, we have gone on for quite some time
and we only did two really major examples.
And even in the first example that you talked about,
we didn't get into the chintones,
which I think we could have,
there's probably stuff there we never even got into.
Anywho, this is the book.
I cannot recommend this book enough.
Let me just give you an example why.
My wife does not get into this stuff.
She thinks we're a bunch of nerds sitting here
talking about things she doesn't give a hoot about.
This is honest, I'm being honest.
She doesn't care.
But this book, and when I've showed her the course
and she had to help formulate the course to put it in,
she's like, I can get into that.
That's actually exciting and enjoyable.
So for whatever reason,
what I do most of the time on MythVision is boring to her.
But then when she gets this book
and is listening to the course,
she's like, I like that.
I love how he focuses on the women
and highlighting women in a way that,
we don't hear typical people who are talking about Bible stuff
or focusing on the women.
So I hope that people will take the time
to get a copy of the book
and be prepared, sign up for the course,
because you're gonna want the book in hand
while you're taking the course.
Go to Perseus Tufts, check out our friend,
Dr. Crane's website.
Is there any other website we're missing here
that we need to plug?
Like, well, let's stick with this for now.
If you give me any links at the end,
I'll add it into the description of this video.
And I wanna do future stuff just exclusively with you,
of course, to learn from you
and talk to you about your studies
and maybe you have something fun to go over.
Thank you, Shadman, for that super chat.
Dr. Dennis, you're a legend.
Keep up the good work, they said.
I thank you, thank you.
Please check out the websites in the description.
Also the course, like I said,
this put I spent at least a month every day editing,
putting a piece of me into editing this course.
And you can see, you go and click it,
once you buy the course,
you'll see you can go in,
every single one is fully packed with information
and it's in 4K.
So the quality is impeccable.
We go through.
Anyway, anyway, anyway.
Teasing people, teasing people.
I hope the people sign up and then subscribe to Neil.
Thank you.
If you haven't, go subscribe.
He has two channels now, Late Night Gnosis,
and of course his main one is Gnostic and Formit.
But I wanna allow all of you to have a final say
to our audience and maybe to each other.
Anything you'd like to end this episode off with?
Discussing.
Well, I'll go first and just say that,
I see this described as your life's work, Dennis,
and I know that not everybody is wildly enthusiastic
as we usually hope they will be when we write something.
But I think if this is what you would consider
to be your life's work,
and I know you've done other things,
you're gonna be pretty happy
and feel like you've done something really interesting
to keep a lot of people thinking and engaging and delighted
and seeing what have been separate traditions,
seeing them in juxtaposition of ways
they otherwise would not have done.
Not surprising that somebody who is friends with Albert Lord,
I remember well, would have this kind of a,
I've had this kind of a clue.
Well, I wanna thank Derek and Neil for getting us together
and Gregory Crane, it's a pleasure to meet you
and I am such a fan of Perseus as other people are.
And this is the kind of conversation
that I find lacking in our two disciplines,
that I don't think biblical scholars
pay enough attention to classics.
I think classics, my experience of some classicists
have been really patronizing to people who study Bible.
And I understand the history behind it.
And actually, I've been a victim of that
on the classic side as well as in my own field.
But it's so important to have conversations like this.
I think I'm a pioneer,
but I don't think I'm a settler yet.
And I think I'm waiting for people to come in
and to clean up my mess,
but we will push back some frontiers.
And I think we're going,
I think if we can collaborate more like this in the future
between the fields, we'll both be better off.
So thank you so much for your intelligence
and for your lifelong commitments
and create something beautiful for all of us.
Neil?
This entire time, these almost two hours
flew really fast for me because I really enjoy
listening to the Mimesis theory,
but also it was nice to get a real honest
and good reaction in real time to this
from somebody who's entrenched in the classical world
and obviously with the website.
And so I was enjoying this whole entire time.
That's it, that's all I gotta say.
I have the poll.
I'm about to close it.
If you've been convinced based on these few examples
or if you're on the fence from a no
or if you aren't convinced and you were, vote now.
I really want to get the honest numbers here
in just a second, but I do want to say to you,
Dr. Crane again, thank you for being a guest
and being cautious because if you would have,
based on this episode with only two examples,
been like, I'm sold.
I would have been skeptical of your jumping
to the conclusion to be honest.
Absolutely, sure.
As academics, I've learned quite a bit
from various versions of you, academics,
and oftentimes it takes chewing
and really mowing over it and I love your response.
It was at least it built curiosity
for you to examine the Greek and say,
maybe Dennis is onto something
and maybe you have a way in formulating it
and packaging it that might be a bit different than Dennis,
but if there's something there,
I hope that you explore further
and we can get you to come on and speak about it.
I'll be delighted.
Yeah. Awesome.
I'm so, so grateful.
I am too.
All right, we're closing poll.
Let's see what the poll looks like
just to get an idea of where our audience sits.
Are you convinced of Dennis McDonald's criticism,
Mimise's criticism, 53% said yes.
Wow. On the fence, 36% and a no, 10%.
The poll completed is 264 votes.
Wow. A lot of votes.
Yeah, it's a lot of votes.
So Dennis, overwhelming,
most people think yes without a doubt.
36% say, I don't know what to do with this thing,
but I can't say no.
It's fair, it's fair.
That's a fair.
It's fair.
That's a big win.
Yeah, that's a big win.
Are not convinced and maybe they've read other academics
as to why they take a position
or maybe they're just not aware of your work enough.
Who knows?
Respect that honesty though.
Whoever voted for no, I respect the honesty, right?
Oh, the votes cannot be changed.
I did not know that.
Oh, whatever.
I thought that if you vote, you can change your vote.
So maybe some people have been convinced
and the statistics might be different now.
I'm not sure, but I really appreciate you
and everybody in the chat.
I'm gonna go ahead and again,
if this is okay with you,
play that promotion for your course.
So that people can actually be encouraged to go
and sign up today and maybe get a copy of the book
and stuff like that.
And maybe next time we could do something with you alone,
Dr. Crane.
How's that sound?
I'd be happy to do it.
Thank you so much, everybody.
All right, I hope you enjoy this.
If you haven't seen this,
you really need to stick to this.
Stay tuned.
Here we go.
Let me hit play.
And it was astonishing what I saw.
Jesus sails the sea with a crew that is his disciples
that are not nearly as noble as he is, like Odysseus.
Like Odysseus, Jesus keeps his identity a secret
so his enemies can't kill him.
The Jewish authorities play the role of Penelope suitors.
They love the best seats in synagogues
and they're willing to kill
in order to win the inheritance.
Judas plays the role of Melantheus.
Jesus is turned, quote, slave.
Jesus has his feet anointed by a woman,
Michael BC is having his feet anointed
by his nurse, Euryclea,
and to recognize him from his scar.
And the name Euryclea means renowned far and wide.
And it said of this woman who anoints Jesus
that wherever the gospel is proclaimed,
it'll be in her memory.
So these parallels were so striking
that I dared not give a new lecture on it
because it hadn't been digested.
And so I spent another summer working through
the gospel of Mark creating criteria
that where I might be able to make a claim
that there's a literary connection.
And at point after point after point,
it became clear that Mark was imitating
not just the Odyssey, but also the Iliad
and also some Tragedian plays.
And I translated Homer, Enderipides and Plato
for myself in order to compare the Greek
of the gospel of Mark with the Greek of these stories.
And it was unbelievable what I was finding.
I also turned to a study of Greek rhetoric
and understood better how literary imitation
or mimesis worked.
And it was that people were taught how to write
by imitating recognized models.
And to compare heroes in an activity called synchrosis.
Synchrosis is simply a comparison
to show that one character is similar,
but better than another.
And of course, that's what's going on in Mark.
Jesus is like Odysseus, but he's better than Odysseus.
He's like Hector in his death, but he comes back to life.
So that's a synchrosis and it goes on and on.
And okay.
And that's what the parable was.
I'm cynical and it's not a point...
It's just like I'm really sick of such stuff.
And it's like I'm kalimba.
And you know I'm so sick of love and hatred.
And there's no point in doing one thing.
We only have real love for it,
it's not an issue.
Only love, what we think.
God forgive me.
