We are here at the Faithless Forum 2021, Austin, Texas, hanging out with all the YouTubers.
And I have the privilege and honor of interviewing you, Seth Andrews, I really appreciate you
joining me.
Hey, thanks for the invite, man.
It's good to be here.
Absolutely.
Well, other than your godly voice, what had to start off that way?
You read Dr. Joshua Bowen's wonderful book, Plugging the Atheist Handbook to the Old Testament.
Volume one, we might see some more.
I know he's working, so it should be probably maybe next year.
I don't know.
We'll see.
Absolutely.
Well, he's a wonderful friend and a great person to work with, so I'm really glad that
you were the one who read it, or else the audio just wouldn't have been half as good
as it is.
Well, thank you.
What is it that you do?
What is your activism, if I could use that term online?
Yeah.
Well, I'm a former evangelical, raised in a devoutly Christian home.
Theologian parents, the whole shoot and match Christian schools, student leader.
I was a Christian radio host for 12 years.
We played Amy Grant, Stephen Curtis Chapman, Michael W. Smith.
All my favorites.
And then I became a video producer and began producing videos, fundraising videos for hundreds
of churches all around the country.
And I was in my 30s, and I became less satisfied with my faith.
It just didn't, it wasn't making sense, but I partitioned it out so that I could be a
believer in Jesus, but I didn't really have to participate in my faith.
I was kind of dormant and that lapel pen Christianity, you know, yes, I believe in Jesus.
Yes, I'm going to heaven, but, but I don't really engage in Christianity.
And I stumbled across a debate video with Christopher Hitchens against Rabbi Shmueli
Botiak.
And I was just browsing the internet.
I was, you know, I didn't mean to, you know, see the debate.
I just happened to stumble across it.
And at the end of that 90 minutes, I realized that the atheist made more sense than the
God believer.
And I started a journey of deconstruction, became an atheist.
I said it out loud at the end of 2008 and immediately was seeking community.
So, you know, I live in Oklahoma, Jesus town, Oklahoma, Tulsa, and I was looking for community.
And so I decided to create one online.
And I called it the thinking atheist.
I am not the thinking atheist.
The thinking atheist is an idea.
It's an icon, you know, I come out of a faith culture.
So let's reject faith.
Faith is a terrible way to find out what's true.
Let's try to reason this out.
Let's follow the breadcrumbs, let's pursue the evidence and started the podcast behind
it in 2010.
And you know, we're still kicking approaching 600 shows.
So I produce podcast and videos and speak all around the world, you know, encouraging
other people to pursue an authentic life and to challenge religious claims.
What has been the most difficult thing you encounter when it comes to believers?
Well, you know, conversations are often challenging.
For me, it's been the dogmatism of family.
You can imagine theologian parents.
I mean, they did everything in their power to front load the deck so that I would be,
you know, a Christian leader, a Christian minister in some capacity, you know, they didn't give
us a choice.
I mean, they said it was a choice.
Test God.
But if I'd come back with a question other than God or Jesus, well, you're wrong.
You're reading the wrong books.
You're listening to the wrong people.
You are being deceived by the evil one, you know, that kind of thing.
And for me, the biggest challenge has been those in my immediate family, you know, the
disappointment of parents who feel like they failed, you know, we were, we weren't good
enough parents.
Our son is failing as a son and the cost to our relationship, because for them, nothing
else can be enjoyed unless the eternal question is answered.
And it's been very difficult.
You know, I lost my father earlier this year and we had, we mended offenses a little bit.
But I mean, you know, it's amazing.
You realize the conditionality of some of the love that is offered up by people in your
tree and your circle, in your culture, you know, because if you stand opposed to what
they hold dear, a belief linked to their identity, they'll often shut down and maybe even shut
you out.
That's been the biggest challenge for me.
Sorry for the loss of your father.
I can't imagine what that's like.
No, we weren't hugely close.
I mean, I broke up a little bit.
They gave me, believe it or not, an opportunity to say a few words at the funeral, which
is weird, because I think, you know, they would have been afraid I was going to go off
on a tirade.
But you know, I just honored his life and, you know, it affected me more than I thought
it would.
But, you know, we were, we were strangers in a lot of ways and I find that's a common
story.
A lot of people find that, you know, their families want them to be like them, think
like them, vote like them, worship like them, and if they don't, you know, they then implement
what they consider a tough love model.
Well, we won't fully accept you because we accept you.
We're endorsing you and then you find yourself, you know, you feel the outside mess of that
circumstance and it's very difficult for many people.
With all that, I guess you could say social ostracizing of that happening to you and it
happens to a lot of us.
What has been the greatest reward from exiting, if I could use it, the cult mindset that we
all had?
Well, there's a ton of answers to that.
I'm going to try to not, you know, send you into a deep slumber with my answer, to not
have to, I mean, Christianity and funding religions have an authoritarian model where
you respond to authority.
It's a culture of savior figures.
It's also a culture of shame.
You're born sinful, you're broken, you need to be redeemed.
Not me, but Christ who lives in me, you know.
And coming out of that, I found real satisfaction in being able to accept myself, you know,
I don't deserve hell.
I'm not broken, I'm not damaged goods, you know, my life has value.
And more than that, and this is encouragement I give to other people, is I think everybody
deserves the gift to give, the gift to themselves on authentic life, live authentically.
How many people have to hide behind a shell?
They do the dance, they speak the words, they pant a mind, whatever they're supposed to
do to keep the peace, but that's not really peace.
What it is is an absence of conflict, right?
You're going along to get along, but you don't get to be your authentic self.
And for me, the biggest plus has been, I don't have to do the dance.
I get to figure it out on my own terms.
I found that I'm more happy, I'm more accepting.
My life is filled with much more color and culture, the wide spectrum of humanity.
I don't start with truth, with a capital T, and then try to find things in this world
to confirm my bias.
I can discover something new every single day, and man, to be able to evolve like that
instead of having a dogmatic faith, this is who I am and I will never change.
What a prison.
To be able to say, teach me something new, I want to be a discoverer.
I mean, that's true liberation.
That's been the best part for me.
Wow.
I don't blame you.
So what is your long-term goal?
Obviously, the initial goal was finding yourself.
That was a process.
You have found what you would like to say as yourself.
You figured out what makes you happy, what makes you tick, and how to enjoy this life
far more than you ever did within the bubble.
They're sure there's a security blanket in some senses, but they're still the feeder.
And today, we don't live with that like we used to.
So the question is, in the long term, what do you hope to gain from doing what you're
doing in your activism?
You know, I'm not a great mind.
You know, it's funny, there are so many people out there that I find so impressive
and even intimidating.
I'm like, they're encyclopedic recall of all this amazing data, you know?
I found myself for a while apologizing for the fact that I'm kind of an idiot.
It took me 30 years to get out of a fundy faith.
You know, I used to think that, you know, I used to think that Donkeys talked and that,
you know, I used to be that guy, you know, but I found that, you know, my gift has been
storytelling and encouraging.
And moving forward, you know, I want to go after the fundy faiths and I want to debunk
the bunk and I want to, you know, deconstruct, dismantle the lies that are often being used
to harm people, especially children, which is kind of a sore spot for me because I was
one of those kids.
But mostly moving forward, you know, as we see the rise of the non-religious, I want
to continue to encourage that and to encourage people, which brings me back to authentic
life, you know, be who you are.
It's OK to stand apart, be an individual.
You are not on this earth to keep other people comfortable.
You know, we tend to think that, you know, well, I can't disrespect my parents or I can't say this
to so and so or I'll be judged, you know?
And I'm like, well, I understand that, you know, consequences could be a real pain and
not everybody can come out.
Not everybody can be that open.
Some people even fear for their lives.
So I'm not trying to make a blanket statement, but I do want to encourage people.
You know, you're not the other responsibility to make sure everybody else feels cozy and
comfortable all the time.
In fact, it was when I became uncomfortable that I started to really think that I started
to say, why am I uncomfortable?
Why is this bothering me so much?
And then I finally came to a moment of critical mass where I was willing to find out what
all that means.
And at the end of that journey, you know, it liberated my mind.
So storytelling, telling the stories, the wonderful stories of escape from religion
and embracing the natural world and encouraging other people that it's OK to be
themselves and that they don't have to keep other people cozy and comfortable.
Ladies and gentlemen, the thinking.
I'm not the thinking atheist, but I'd like to think we are thinkers.
You know, faith is faith makes me crazy.
You know, a election seasons in the heartland always feature some guy, you know, holding
a Bible, they show him in church and the narration says candidate X is a man of faith.
And if we stop to define faith, the faith faith is really claiming to know what we do
not know, like Hitchens once said, it's called faith because it's not knowledge.
If we knew it, it would be knowledge, not faith.
And I always wanted him to reproduce those political lads to actually say it.
Candidate X claims to know what he does not know.
I think that would be a much more honest way of approaching, you know, faith.
And so the thinking atheist is just an encouragement to everybody, including myself,
you know, faith is just a terrible way to find out what's real.
Let's let's think about it, you know, let's engage brain.
Religion likes to teach us to distrust reason, distrust our minds.
How tragic is that, you know, distrust your cognitive abilities and lean on this other.
And any religion, any competing faith could make those claims.
No, let's let's think about it.
And my hope is the icon and the site, the community, the content of the thinking
atheist provides that encouragement to other people to do the same.
Thank you.
You bet you it's been an honor.
