Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen got another question by Sherry Clem and she says, oh, I forgot.
About and according to the scriptures, if God is not a man and can't lie, he does not
change his mind.
What he says is what he means.
My question is, if he is against human sacrifice and everyone is responsible for their own
sins, then why did he send his son to be sacrificed for the sins of the world?
Sounds like a lie to me, right?
Yeah, I mean, probably another theological question that's not strictly in my field, but
I'll give it a go.
Yeah, so I think that, again, what we're probably dealing with here is, I think as she's
intimating here, this development of theological ideas.
So again, I think Paul is probably looking back at the data points, right?
He believes something about who this man was.
He has concluded something and he's knowing the Hebrew Bible and trying to make the pieces
fit right with what he sees, what he knows.
You just quoted a tool song, by the way.
Really?
I think trying to make the pieces fit, I don't know why that came to mind.
You know, tool.
Heavy metal.
Yeah.
Schism, they do the song.
I feel like there's a song that I know from them.
Probably just turned off half your patrons, sorry about that.
He doesn't like tool.
Tool what?
Mysterious, heavy metal band in the 90s, anyway.
But because of that, trying to remember the question, oh, yes.
So because of that, again, if you've got to make an omelet and you only have these ingredients
that you have to make an omelet, even if you've got gummy bears and pancake batter, and somebody
says you have to make an omelet, guess what, you're using pancake batter and gummy bears
to make an omelet.
I think that's what's going on here with the apostle Paul.
So he's got Jesus, you know, and again, not my field, so nobody should take what I'm
saying here or take it with a grain of salt.
He believes, at least in some respects, as Jesus being more than a man, right, the Messiah.
But he's died, which is an unexpected thing.
And how do I take these, you know, what I know, the gummy bears and the pancake batter
and how to make an omelet out of it?
And I think what he then does is sort of reinterprets in a theological way to make it coherent.
And certainly these are not my ideas.
I think this is Bart Ehrman's position on these things that I suspect that Bart Ehrman's
right, go figure.
But yeah, so, you know, looking back at the Hebrew Bible and yes, of course, you know,
I think this the ultimate canonical form or theological position that at least the editors
of the Hebrew Bible took is that people are responsible for their own sin and that he's
got a new child sacrifice.
You know, how do we make sense of that?
I don't know that we do.
I think the way that Paul made sense of that is that he's God and he can do as he pleases
and he's in a different category.
And there's a little bit of maybe there's a little bit of cognitive dissonance there.
But you know, who are we to question God?
I mean, those are principles that I think I know I came to the text with them.
I know you came to the text with them.
I suspect Paul came to the text with them.
I mean, you break up a good point on that, that God's in a different lane because you
have God sending lying spirits, for example, in the Old Testament, totally OK with it.
I mean, don't question what God is doing.
He does a lot of good things according to the narrative for the Israelites.
He does a lot of bad things.
It looks like against his own people for being disobedient or whatever.
But my point is you kind of can do what he wants, however he wants it.
But the New Testament, James seems to say there's no shadow of darkness, these type of things
like he does all good.
And I wonder, once again, back into the evolution of her question of where deities come from,
God starts to change.
He takes on a more all powerful, almighty view.
But even Paul is like, who are you, a man to question God?
You know, God do what he wants.
I mean, we see this.
And again, John Collins is the person to talk to about this.
And I think you guys actually did talk about it.
But I mean, this type of dualistic approach, God starts to develop because it's like, you
know, this, this ancient Near Eastern theodicy of we have evil in the world.
I mean, it was a real problem back then, both in the Hebrew Bible and in the ancient Near East.
And as, you know, I think time goes on.
And particularly in the apocalyptic genre that aims to answer that question, that problem a little bit.
Were you OK? Well, actually evil is a real serious force and this sort of dualistic approach.
The good has to battle with the evil in that in that more narrow sense.
So, yeah, I mean, I think theological positions, you know, they develop.
I mean, we know that they do.
And so I think I think being able to see that
that type of separation and exclusively putting evil over here and God being more virtuous,
you know, or omnibenevolent over here, I think at least laid the groundwork for that.
I think it's complex, though, the question she asked about Jesus in particular.
And I don't know if anyone has the answer, but I do enjoy like thinking in ways like Bart Ehrman talks about.
If let's just hypothesize here, if Jesus was a guy on earth and unexpectedly he gets killed.
Yeah. I mean, like, let's say Mark's words where he says, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
Let's just say this is complete despair.
I mean, the original closest to the original, if you will, or like something that's the earliest we have, Mark,
here he is shocked, right?
If that's the case, we do see implications in the narrative that he expects to die.
But nonetheless, he dies.
If this is the real history, now they're trying to make sense of it.
Yeah.
Now you got to run back.
You see Abraham was about to sacrifice his son.
Oh, but God puts a ram here.
And then, you know, there's these children sacrifice claims that are throughout the Bible.
It's a serious thing and it's a bad no-no.
So the idea that he becomes a curse because cursed is any man who hangs on a tree.
Well, he became why did he why did he die in a way which was a curse?
Oh, he did it for him for us.
So it's hard to know whether this is theological from the get or if this is really this has a historical basis or what?
It's so complex.
Yeah, I have a hard time again.
This is just my two cents.
And again, nobody should nobody should go preach a sermon or something.
Based on what I'm saying, don't write an article based on this video.
But I do think that this has all the signs of them.
It all these things seem to fit together, theologically, a little too neatly.
And again, this is how we operate as humans.
I got my mind automatically again goes back to the tire prophecy because this you see it so clearly there.
This prophecy fails.
It doesn't happen the way it's supposed to.
And theologians know this, biblical scholars know this and the way that they you know,
the way that they argue for it, for it not being strictly a failed prophecy.
Or that God, you know, fails to do something the way that he wants to do it.
Is they incorporate this idea of Jonah against Nineveh and prophecy that prophecy is contingent.
And you know, prophecy is more about getting people to do something and those two things are true.
And so then the idea then becomes, well, the king of the king of tire must have somehow
repented and we just didn't know it.
Right.
And then to follow on the heels of that.
But then the Egyptian prophecy fails in chapter 29.
So the Pharaoh must have also repented.
I mean, it's like, OK, guys, like, is that possible?
Sure. At what point do we start going?
Should we continue to try to make all these things fit?
You know, that's a good point.
And we I think we do that no matter what.
So trying to make sense of Jesus's death, burial, resurrection, and how it's been interpreted,
it's complicated.
I mean, this could be that what was expected didn't happen.
And now we have this, if you will, grasping at Old Testament narratives,
trying to make sense of something regardless, if you will,
irregardless of the of it making sense in Hebrew culture.
Oh, yeah, we're in a first century context, too.
So they're like, I don't know.
Yeah, I mean, it's it's it's irrelevant, I think, to, in a sense, to the
the current interpreter doesn't need in the same way that I don't think,
you know, when I hear like the Wu Tang clan
utilizing older songs or older lyrics,
reworking, you know, literary themes
or old sayings, they don't have to fit the original context.
They don't even have to fit the original context terribly well,
just enough to get the point across
because that's not that that doesn't that doesn't necessarily matter all that much.
It's how they're using it in the current context.
And a good place that I that I see this is I always talk about this.
I think they're still going this cult of Lord Royale
down in Mexico, your Messiah, right?
Yeah, he's he is in no doubt.
No diggity.
But like to listen to them.
Utilize the biblical text to justify.
Things that have happened.
Or to watch them interpret climactic
like climate things that, for example, there was a hurricane, I think,
that passed close to where their compound was.
And it missed much like hurricanes do, right?
They start to come in and then they go out to the coast or something to the ocean.
Apparently, like they made a huge deal out of this.
It was coming up and then they prayed and Lord Royale said,
no, you will not come this way or something.
You know, at 19.
You know what I mean?
I blow.
Oh, and what happened?
It's still spread.
Well, but not in the way that it would have.
Right. You see, because they came out with that vaccine.
Really quickly and don't look.
Don't sell Kenneth Copeland.
Sure. Right. You're right.
I apologize. I repent.
I repent. I repent.
No, that's a great point, though.
And I exactly like the COVID-19.
It's like anything that comes up the way that they use it, yeah, it's being used.
So if this guy died, looking at stuff like in Caiaphas prophesied,
it is better than one man die for the nation than the whole nation.
We don't want the Romans.
That seems like that could have some legit basis to the idea of like,
let's get rid of this guy.
I mean, there's there's this hint to that.
So anyway, I think like one analogy that I'll give and then I'll stop.
But like if you think about a baseball catcher,
right, he's got his glove here and I used to catch.
If you throw the ball and you don't hit the glove,
like if it's not coming, he doesn't have to keep his hand there.
Right. He can move it.
And if you've ever seen a catcher, he'll, he'll, if he's good, which I wasn't,
but if he's good, if it's a little bit inside, just off the corner,
when he catches it, he'll turn his glove in like this.
So the glove part of the glove is over the corner of the plate
because the catcher's mid is kind of big as opposed to catching it like this,
where the glove is facing out, he'll catch it and turn.
So the umpire, when he sees it, if you see him,
they'll hold it there like this or they'll catch it and they'll hold it like this.
Yeah. They want the,
they leave it there for a second so the ump can see, hey, it's man,
that's over the corner of the plate.
Even if the ball was out here and he's turned it in, um,
and I think that's a good analogy to what's happening here is these data points
are coming in.
There's flexibility to be able to move that glove around and catch it.
And if it's outside, you can just turn that glove in a little bit and it's,
it's over the corner. It's over the corner.
Like maybe it's not perfect.
Maybe it's not where we would have expected it, but we'll make it work.
Yeah. We'll make it work. Wow. Thank you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
