Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
We're going to talk about why the ancient world sucked for women.
I have with us the Queen of MythVision, Ryan, my wife.
Welcome to MythVision, sweetheart.
Oh, thanks.
That's not awkward at all.
Not awkward. Not at all.
We also have an expert Assyriologist, Dr. Joshua Bowen,
joining us today. Welcome back, my friend.
Good to be back.
I'm always excited when you're here.
You're going to be highlighting law codes and different issues
between the older laws before the Bible, what is in the Bible,
and our goal along the process is to have the Queen of MythVision
to kind of give the modern context perception,
like her hipfire reaction to some of these ideas
and also her insights as a woman.
I mean, this is the thing that's missing in these discussions
so, so often as men sitting around talking about like,
well, this law wasn't so bad for women because X, Y, and Z.
And it's like, well, if you don't know what it's like to be a woman,
sorry, you don't really have the ability to speak in the same way.
So, yeah, I think it's really important. I'm excited.
I think so too.
We started talking about this yesterday off-camera.
And Ryan, I'm just going to refer to my wife as Ryan.
That is my name.
It's very difficult to do that.
Usually it's boo-boo-doo-doo or like, you know what I'm saying?
Some other little nickname that we have for each other.
But for this video, we're going to keep it professional.
And you could throw your two cents in there.
So, Josh, we talked about rape in the ancient world.
We talked about how women were treated as property in the ancient world.
Men had it made compared to women.
But even then, look at how we do things when we're in control.
So, where do you want to begin?
Yeah, I mean, I think just in general, sort of laying out the nature,
the patriarchal nature, particularly when it comes to the law collections
and the way that the law dealt with these issues.
I mean, these are documents that are put together by men, right?
Because it's a patriarchal society.
So, when you deal with things like rape, for example,
you know, everybody thinks today, and of course, you know,
more recently, Jordan Peterson made that unbelievably boneheaded comment
about how was it so, have we really come so far?
Because it used to be that rape wasn't a crime against a woman,
but it is now, and I guess in some sense, that's good, he said.
But is it really that great because now, you know,
men aren't able to come and protect a woman in the same way.
It was just such nonsense.
But I think that understanding that that is the way the law
and society at large viewed something like the crime of rape
is it's not a crime against the woman that gets raped.
It's a crime against the man that owns her, owns the rights to her sexuality.
And that's something that is seen in Ancient Near East in general.
It's also seen in biblical texts.
I think it's really important to recognize that and to get,
I mean, a woman's feedback on that.
Because again, from a man's perspective, we can say things like,
well, I mean, sure, she has to have sex with the guy,
or, you know, sure, she has to marry him.
But I mean, she'd want to do that, right?
Because she was devalued.
And while that might be true, it's true in the same way.
I think that, like, if you watch Schindler's List
and you see the Jewish women who are being kept in the concentration camp,
like, slap their faces or whatever to make their cheeks a little more rosy
so that they don't get killed that day when the guards come by.
Yeah, that's something that they wanted to not get killed.
But that doesn't mean that we then say,
oh, well, yeah, it's pretty much okay.
I think that's what happens in the Christian apologetics a lot.
What do you think about that idea?
I mean, we're married, so the law is different,
even in the ancient world for married people.
So if Ryan was raped, and I mean, this is,
we talked about some of this yesterday.
So please, if this is sensitive material to you, turn off.
Yeah.
We're going into raw real-life stuff,
and that's what Ryan loves to do is to talk about the real stuff.
So if you weren't married, your dad owned you as property.
You were his.
Right.
So you were, what is it called, bad goods?
You were...
Yeah, the term that's used in the Hebrew is,
like they translate it to be deflowered,
but it means once you've had sexual intercourse, right?
And so now your dad's not going to be able to get as much money for you, right?
I mean, that's really what it comes down to.
The value goes down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so, and then if you got raped,
you might feel however you feel,
but really it's about how your dad,
who is the owner of you,
is now screwed with having to either take care of you
as a non-virgin because no one wants to marry you
and nobody's going to pay the money to do so,
or he gets a lot less money for you,
or the woman would have to marry the rapist.
And so you kind of have these like,
if they know who the rapist is, he'll be held by law
to have to like marry her.
But I want to get Ryan's thoughts about this part
and really give us your two cents.
This is crazy.
The rapist then owns the woman,
which kind of lifts the burden of the father
from having to take care of the daughter anymore,
but you now have to be married for the rest of your life
to the person who raped you.
And can you explain why the rest of your life?
Because that man cannot divorce you
because he broke a law by raping you.
So if you're rapist.
She gets the privilege of having to be married for life
because he can't divorce you.
Right.
Because he screwed up.
He stuck with you.
Now imagine being the guy.
See how that sounds?
Imagine being the guy who wants you,
purposefully rapes you,
and you're like,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, I don't like this guy.
And now you're stuck with the guy.
Well, that's pretty much how it was anyways,
but right, they didn't get to say so
and who they got to be with,
whether raped or not,
they were given away either way.
Consent, I think, is in these circumstances.
If we think about, like when you say to your kid,
we're going to go get shots, right?
You don't really need his consent to get shots for him, right?
Or you're going to go to school.
It's not really, consent isn't a factor here.
So he has to do it.
You're his parent.
Right.
So, you know, when a father says,
all right, hey, I'm in debt
and this creditor is willing to take you as a concubine.
In order to satisfy the debt, best of luck.
You know, I'm obviously the one saying that,
but her consent is not something that's considered.
It's a transaction between the two men.
Right.
So either way, it would not work for me personally.
I'd be beheaded probably,
but you know, it's not much different now, you know,
as far as the women are devalued
based on how many men they have been with
or how many sexual partners they have been with.
They're devalued from that too.
But people don't look at it the same way, I guess.
But basically it's the same concept.
So like, I think what you're trying to get at is that women
are called hoes, sluts, things like that.
But a guy who is sleeping with several women is a pimp,
a player.
It's a good thing that he is.
What I find interesting in our social setting is
you have that for a lot of women.
And usually it's super misogynistic guys who do that, right?
But then you have some women, they lean into it
and take ownership and they don't let the misogynistic BS
bother them and they are kind of the player
who own their sexuality and they sleep with who they want
and they have control like a man.
So there's like, there's some women who are ferocious
and they kind of eat through the bitterness
from men around them who probably are jealous
and wish they could be with them.
And they just take ownership and you can see a lot of that
kind of like, I don't know what would be a good example,
but I mean, horrible example, I'm just going to use it.
Well, like when Jimmy Snow, I can't remember that.
The pastor, the really fundamentalist, horrible, bigoted pastor.
In Texas?
Yeah, I kept calling him a pumpkin because it was the world's
biggest fruit and he took it and leaned into it, right?
And all of his social media had as its icon a big pumpkin,
right?
He took ownership of it.
Right.
And it was a great Tommy McMurtry was the name of the pastor.
But he, like, it was a big, it's a big mistake for McMurtry
to do because it boosted Jimmy Snow's, you know, social media
tremendously.
But yeah, so maybe something like that.
I was thinking like Kardashians or something like,
you know that they've been with several people.
Now they're rich, so they have that advantage.
But even people who aren't rich, what are your thoughts?
I would say it's more like the girls who want to pursue only
fans.
Like we had talked about them taking ownership of their,
you know, themselves, you know, sexuality and leaning into it.
That's what I would look at as leaning into it.
You know, does that make sense?
Yeah, this is a great point that you're bringing up about only
fans because it makes me think about what happens in Genesis
38 with Judah and his daughter-in-law.
She's a piece of property being thrown around among sons and one
spills the seed.
We know what happens to him.
I used to really worry about that, by the way.
Yeah, the whole spill your seed on the earth and God will,
you know, get you.
Oh, get you.
God will get you.
But I'm thinking of like-
Intermelt is fine.
Yeah, that's okay.
I know that women had a, I mean, life period in the ancient
world had less value ultimately.
But, and I hope our morality continues to evolve and we bring
more value to life as time goes by.
But I'm thinking about women going into prostitution,
not concubines or sex slaves.
I'd like to get into those discussions too.
But like women who went into the occupation of prostitution,
I wonder if they're kind of leaning into that.
You see what I'm trying to get at?
Yeah, I mean, it's complicated.
So certainly like Mesopotamian goddess Inanna Ishtar,
you know, certainly does have that aspect to her,
like her personality or characteristics.
Conversely, I guess, if you read through the epic of Gilgamesh,
you have Enkidu when he's dying, curses prostitute Shamhat.
And like the way that she's depicted in the curse is describing
the like the terrible aspects of the life of the prostitute.
So I mean, I think it's probably not like a univocal.
You know, there's not one way that they viewed that.
But yeah, I mean, I see what you're saying.
I'm sure that did, that did happen.
Probably depended on the situation.
Okay.
So the laws, there's some good stuff that we were talking
about.
Like if you were too much chopping the hand off,
what was that one about again?
Yeah.
So, you know, in the broader interiors in the middle of Syrian
laws, you see that one of the things about the law collections,
these, you know, if X happens, then Y should happen.
Those those collections, they're very similar through the millennia.
And you find out that there's sort of a similar set of
circumstances that each of these collections is trying to deal
with.
They think about them similarly, and then they the punishments
or the ways that they're solved are very similar,
even if they're not exact, they're in the same sort of thing.
So like if, you know, if somebody steals something,
all the law collections, you know, treat that in a similar way.
Anyway.
So in this particular case, it talks about if two men are fighting
and the wife of one of the men, assuming like that he's losing
a fight, comes up and grabs the silence testicles,
try to help her husband.
Well, if one of the testicles gets damaged, she loses a finger.
If both of the testicles are damaged, then the text is broken
there, but it says that both of her some things get either cut
off or gouged out.
So I mean, it's pretty like horrific stuff.
Right.
It probably means like breasts are cut off.
Yeah.
But in the biblical text, the same sort of the same offense,
it results in just kind of getting a hand cut off of the woman.
But again, it's this sort of, it's pretty harsh, right?
To say the least, but it's very one sided.
As many of the laws are, is like when we think about things
like adultery, adultery is a crime that's committed against
the man.
It's not committed against the married woman.
Or whoever the adulterous.
Right.
Yeah.
I feel like you can have a guy that commits adultery, but it's the
guy who's sleeping with a married woman, which is why you brought
up that men in the ancient world could be married to several women.
Yeah.
They were titled something like second wives or concubines or
sex slaves or stuff like that.
But that was, I'm sure there was wrestling in the households.
I mean, we even have the depiction of Abraham and like the
struggles between the slave woman and of course Sarah.
These things are specifically talked about, but like I'm curious
from Ryan's perspective, like when men who are Christian apologists,
sometimes big name Christian apologists, hear things like this.
The way that they respond is to try to soften the law.
And so what they'll do is they'll look for potential benefits to
the woman.
So in the rape circumstance, we were talking about what you will
hear all the time as well.
I mean, she's, you know, she's been devalued in that society.
And so she might not be able to find a husband.
So this is the way that the law is trying to provide for her for
the rest of her life.
Like what would your response be?
I'm curious to a Christian apologist who's a particular man who
says something like that.
So will you go into the story so that other people understand what
the story is behind it?
Yeah.
You want me to kind of give it a try?
A guy comes up, we have a story with Abraham and his 12 sons,
and he has a daughter, the 12 sons sister.
They go to meet another tribe.
There's like serious beef that, that happens because the prince,
I think he was a prince of the other tribe.
One of the main guys sons rapes the 12 brothers sister,
which is Abraham's daughter.
Now I know this is before the law, but we know how the Bible does.
Like they have like, how does Noah know unclean and clean animals?
That's a bit of anachronistic because the law doesn't come to Moses.
But anyway, like the idea is that she was going to be marrying to their,
to their son and they were going to merge as tribes.
The 12 sons go and kill all of them after they circumcise them.
They have a fever on the third day and they go and kill them all.
Not an actual story that happens.
But the point is, is how do you feel about someone trying to defend
the notion that, well, the law, at least she's being provided for.
Right after they've killed my entire family.
Nope. Nope. I threw you a loop by mentioning that.
Okay. So that's why I wanted him to tell the story that he told in a day.
Yeah.
Just to, you know, it's a law.
So there are different ways that, like there are different atrocities.
When I think about what I have heard men say to these stories,
right, it just makes me cringe.
It's the same sort of feeling that I get when like they,
they make the same things up about child slavery.
But that, so if you, if you think about circumstance where a man just,
so in Deuteronomy 22, 28, 29, you have a law where it says,
if a man finds a woman in the field,
seizes her and rapes her, like lies with her,
then the result is that he has to marry her forever.
He cannot, he can never divorce her.
Right. Okay.
And in that circumstance, an apologist will say,
like, well, I mean, sure, it's, maybe it's a little harsh,
but I mean, at least she's provided for her for the rest of her life.
I mean, my gosh, like, well, what if the law,
you know, didn't require that or something.
And in fact, I have heard apologists say,
man, can you imagine having to be that guy?
I mean, waking up, maybe that he just had like a bad night or something
and he went and slept.
Now he's got to wake up to this woman every morning.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts about that?
So for one, it's not a privilege to stay with someone who's raped you
or devalued you even more than what you already were in that society.
It's not a privilege, it's torture, you know?
And so that's what I would say is it's torture.
I mean, nobody wants to live with their abuser, you know?
And that's like, you know, a man being abused as a child
and then growing up, do they want to still live with that abuser
when they no longer have to, you know?
Yeah.
No, they'd rather, you know, live in the streets.
And that's basically how I feel, you know?
I can't speak for every woman, but pretty sure most women would rather live
in the streets and fend for ourselves.
Wow.
Yeah.
I mean, I just, I think one critical aspect that men, because of physiology
and because of, you know, the way that society is structured here,
like one thing that they can understand is this severity.
And I know we put the disclaimer up, so sorry.
But I mean, like the severity of being forcibly penetrated by someone.
That's something that it's just so easy for a guy to move past,
because they don't, unless it's happened to a man,
it's something that you just don't understand.
And obviously there's a, and it's certainly,
I don't understand it from a woman's perspective,
but like there's obviously a tremendous psychological aspect to that
of having no ability to fight back
and having no ability to do anything.
But more than that, just the, these are things that I think men need
to be made aware of.
Right.
And that they're just, they don't.
I just, I want to highlight something interesting about that law
and how backwards this is.
Imagine he rapes her, right?
But she knows the law is going to force her to have to marry him for the rest of her life.
He knows that that's the case too.
What are the odds that she's going to go try and tell somebody?
I mean, if she tells, she's forced to have to marry him.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I'd like.
And maybe scared.
I mean.
For her life.
But see, that's the, that's the issue.
Because if she consented and had sex, like that, she could get killed, right?
So I mean, this is.
And if she couldn't prove that she was raped, right?
Yeah, that's right.
And what was the proof you, you, oh, so sorry.
No, no.
I mean, you told a story.
So that's the only reason I know.
But I mean, like, so if you go back a little bit in Deuteronomy 22, at the beginning of
that section about sex crimes, you know, in a woman's wedding night, if the husband gets
the text talks about if the, the new husband goes in and they have sex and he hates her
and he gets really angry with her and he comes out and says, when I went into her, she was
not a virgin, right?
The signs of her virginity were not there.
The case is not for him to prove.
That's a subtle thing that I think people miss in the text.
But the case, it's not like he can make the accusation, right?
Now it's then the onus is now on the woman and her family to prove that she actually
was a virgin.
And how do they do that?
Well, the mother and father have to produce the dress that she was wearing that ostensibly
shows the blood while I was having a struggle coming up with that word.
And that's the onus being on the woman and the family to prove that.
How does that strike you?
One, I think it's crazy because maybe he was just small, you know, maybe he was too
small.
I'm just saying that's not her fault.
But it's a thing.
So, you know, I don't think that's right for her to have to prove it because what if
he, you know, for instance, just wanted to sleep with her, you know, and that happens,
I'm sure men do it all the time.
They just want to sleep with you and that's it.
You didn't want to commit to her after he was able to be with her, you know.
So that I think that's a ridiculous law is that in that circumstance, of course, if the
family can't produce the bloody piece of clothing, she's stoned to death right there.
But best case scenario for her, she's been publicly humiliated by this accusation.
If her parents and I mean, like I can't even fathom this, the family has to come out and
show this garment, right?
I mean, even in a best case scenario, how humiliating must that have been?
But the punishment on the guy is a fine.
He has to pay the family like, I think 100 shekels of silver, but he can never divorce
her.
And that's the whole point here.
She still has to marry him.
Wow.
It seems like women are currency.
That's really what their cattle, their sheep, they're a heightened form of animal.
Their property.
Their property.
And I mean, like legitimately seen as they're used to create peace treaties to try and connect.
They're like, I would almost, it's cattle like even the kind of negotiations.
Hey, you know, I'll give you 30 oxen and whatnot.
They had negotiations to make things right.
It's just seems like that women are currency and they're used as vessels, right?
Because even their, what is the technical term for their understanding of nature?
I mean, they thought that it was the man who produced the child.
Now we know a little bit better about the whole egg and the idea of the semen and whatnot
and how a baby is birthed, but that it's the man's child.
Even the fact that a woman's, we should dive into a little bit of abortion and the problems
of the loss of a child.
What happens like if you're, if a man's in a fight, right?
We talked about a woman grabbing the testicles.
What happens if a man's fighting another man and the other wife's trying to jump in, she's
pregnant, the guy accidentally elbows and boom, she miscarries.
They kill that guy, right?
Like he just, right?
They're supposed to chop his hands off or his elbow off, right?
Or what happens?
Oh, yeah.
I was like, no, no, Derek.
They don't.
Now I know where you were going.
Like this is a common law that shows up in many of the law collections is dealing with
this problem of if a man beats a pregnant daughter of a man or a wife of a man or like
this, this is a concern and the fetus she miscarries or if, so it considers if she miscarries,
that's one punishment, usually monetary fine for the value.
No, it's paid to the man, but whoever has a woman in this society, like whoever you're
under somebody, right?
You're under a man somewhere.
I mean, like it's more nuanced.
Like there are, I would say there are degrees of property like relationships.
She's not considered property in the same way that like a slave would be considered property.
There's certainly an elevated status and you can see that there are levels of that.
Can you imagine how bad it was for them then?
Yeah.
Because the wife's life is not looking so good for me.
Yeah.
So I can't even imagine.
And that's why I say from the perspective of the sex, at least from the perspective
of the man listening to this or me speaking about this, like we're the one that's in
the position of power in the story.
Right.
It's just so hard for us even when we try to wrap our heads around.
I would say honestly to a, you know, like you had said a Christian apologist who said
those things about, you know, making excuses or making a lighter of the situation about
how women were treated.
I mean, just put yourself in their shoes.
How would you like it if you were raped, you know, like, and we're not, I mean, think
of it as you being raped by your worst enemy, you know, because at that point they become
your worst enemy, you know, do you want to marry him?
That that's a privilege for you, you know,
I think it's even more complicated than this because we were talking about this a couple
of days ago.
Men, it's so much, there's so much more to this in the life of women in a patriarchal
society because it's not just like a guy, a guy can like temporarily put himself in
those shoes to a certain extent, right?
But we don't walk around all day worried about being attacked.
We don't worry about what guy is following us.
We don't worry about, am I wearing the wrong clothing today?
Boy, it's after nine o'clock.
I need to be careful in this Walmart.
Like we don't worry about those things.
And if we do, it's only in very limited circumstances where there are other men in a, like a particular
neighborhood or something that might cause us issues.
But women, I'm going just off of what I understand other women have said, but I mean, like it
seems like we were talking about it, like this is something that you, like women deal
with this every day.
It's constantly on their minds.
Women and now that human trafficking has gotten so bad, you have to worry about your kids.
I mean, you have to even the boys, honestly, but of course the girls for sure because they're
trying to, I guess, kidnap them and what they trap them and sexualize them basically just
for payment.
Is that how that works?
So you have to be concerned about that, but there's a lot of like, you know, tracking devices
now, a lot more technology to basically be able to abuse or stalk or, you know, get access
to women.
Yeah.
It's like, it's a much bigger picture.
And so I think this plays into, and I'm really hoping that a lot of apologists watch this
because this is, I think it's so important for them to realize, but when we come to something
like Deuteronomy 21, 10 to 14, or it's talking about the captive bride, right?
So the story, you know, for the audience is that, you know, Israel is commanded in the
previous chapter that when you go out to war, if the city fights back against you, you're
supposed to kill all the men and take the women, children, catalyst, plunder, right?
And these people are destined for slavery.
That's what they're destined for.
And so in that context, if an Israelite man who's just killed all the men in the city
sees among the captives this beautiful woman and says, I'd like to have her as my wife,
then it lays out the process.
You take her back to your house, you shave off all her hair, you trim her nails back,
you make her change out of the garment, the clothing that she's wearing and put on new
clothes.
And then she gets 30 days to mourn her family.
And then after that, it doesn't say, and then you ask her, hey, are you okay with this,
right?
Would you like to marry me?
Right?
That's none of that there.
It says, after the 38 period, you may go in and have sex with her and she will be your
wife.
Then it says, and actually, this may be good to just read it, but I think I'm doing a pretty
good paraphrase, but if you find that you no longer want her, you can't just sell her,
right?
Because you've deflowered her.
But these are the things that the Christian apologizes that, look, you can't just sell
her.
I mean, look at the protection that's given to the woman here.
Look, she gets 30 whole days to mourn.
My God, where else would you see this in the ancient world?
And what are they really doing?
What is the 30 days really for?
Yeah, I mean, I think scholars are of the opinion here that the text is trying to set
this in a good, paint a good picture.
But really, what's probably happening here is making sure she's not pregnant, right?
Make sure she has menstrual cycles.
Because the point of this, one of the points of this is the man can have a legal heir through
this marriage.
So from your perspective, if I take the position of the apologist and I say, yeah, okay, okay,
sure, it's not great.
But look, now she doesn't have to be a slave.
And she gets this whole month to mourn.
She gets some new clothing out of this, you know, and she has her status elevated, right?
She can't just be sold as a slave, so like, sure, it's bad, but look, the law is trying
to protect her.
What's your reaction to that?
Would they want to be married to the people who murdered their family, you know, because
I'm sure that that girl had family somewhere that's no longer there.
And so now you're just living with murder, basically, and having to be married to him
as if it's, you know, a privilege because you're no longer a slave.
I'd rather be a slave personally.
So how would you respond to, this is not a common apologetic response, but it's one
that I have heard that when it says there that she's given 30 days to mourn.
But the word there in Hebrew is bakha, and it can mean like to weep.
And there are some contexts where it could mean like to be so happy that you weep.
And they interpret this as like, you're simultaneously mourning how awful your life was with this
heathen nation that, you know, God has seen fit to destroy.
And you're simultaneously weeping for joy that you get to be married to this man who's
part of like the people that say, what's your reaction to that?
I would say, yes, weeping can be either way, but we mainly use it for, you know, when we're
trying to show that someone is upset, not joyful, you know,
like, can you imagine a scenario where you would be thinking,
no, and I don't know where they came up with that.
Or how did they get to their answer?
Do they say like how they came up with this?
Yeah, I mean, it's it's it's really nothing more than if I were to if it would be like
if I said I went to the funeral home yesterday and, you know,
the wife of the man that died was, you know, weeping in the front row.
Technically, because weeping could be done when someone's really happy.
You could say, well, maybe she's weeping for joy that her husband's dead.
Right. But but you most likely you're going to say, if we do the math, you know, honestly,
doesn't calculate like does it resonate at all with you?
No, that a woman would say, oh, I'm being delivered from this awful life of my family
and I get to spend the rest of my life.
But does that resonate at all with you?
No, honestly, I would say she's probably weeping from being upset for her entire life.
There's probably no joy shown on these women, you know, they're they're not happy to be there.
Yeah, you know, can you imagine having to interact and be married
to someone that you can clearly tell is not, you know, is there I'm sure there's punishment
for that too, huh?
Like the women probably aren't ever happy, you know, like they're the chances of her
being joyful at all are probably very slim, you know, throughout her time from being captured,
I'm sure.
Yeah.
Until, you know, however long and probably even before the way women were treated, you
know, where she was living in her village or, you know, I'm assuming it's a village
that I don't know, you know, I don't see women just being joyful for having life and having
to care for their responsibilities and be treated like property, you know, have no say
so and what happens to them or their bodies.
I just don't see that as being joyful.
But I mean, maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe it's because I've only seen it, you know, this way.
And I don't know, but I can imagine that.
So what was I going to talk about?
There was something I was going to ask you about the punishments, is there a punishment
for like them not being happy or joyful, you know, or showing like appreciation?
Maybe I don't know.
And then you said that it was going to be really good to the good ones.
Always slip away.
Maybe it'll maybe it'll come back up.
All right.
So we may have to throw you something.
Yeah, we may have to like do a reset here because I let me start back and then get one
slip away, you know, sucks.
So I guess one of the things that I would be curious to hear your perspective on the
way in which ancient societies, particularly like in areas of Mesopotamia and the Hebrew
Bible, the Old Testament, tried to determine things like intent.
So to take it outside of rape and adultery, if you read through Exodus 21, 20 to 21,
and it's one of these really well known slave laws, the law is trying to get at how do we
determine if the master intended to abuse and, you know, maliciously beat his slave
or was it just moderate correction beating, right?
And the way that they do that is they say, well, if the slave dies immediately, then
that must have been malicious.
And so then the slave master is punished.
But if the slave takes a couple of days to die,
If you drag it out.
Yeah, then, then, you know, maybe some other mitigating circumstance came in and that led
to the death of slave.
So the benefit of the doubt is given up.
But that's how they they determine those types of things.
So when it when it comes to determining whether a woman is raped or if she commits adultery,
it has to do with her crying out.
So the law says if a woman is in like the city or in a house where other people are like
around will be around the house, right, like a village or something.
Yeah.
And she claims to be raped, but nobody heard her cry out.
Then it's assumed that she was willingly she consented to that and she committed adultery.
But if she's out in the field, then there there would have been no one around to hear her scream.
And so it's the benefit of the doubt is given to her that she didn't consent.
So they assume that she got raped.
How does that strike you as a is it a good test?
Is it a bad test?
Like, what are some of the ways that that resonates with you?
The logic there is just not realistic because men are physically stronger than women.
So he could, you know, cover her mouth.
He could do lots of things.
He could threaten her life.
They already don't have, you know, any rights, basically.
They have no consent over themselves.
So the chances of them believing her either way is also a concern, I'm sure.
So screaming out is not always possible or safe for women to do.
Suppose a guy knocks her out.
She's unconscious, which happens.
Then she's raped.
Then she wakes up.
Where does the law help her in any of that?
Well, it looks just too bad for you.
But I mean, like, I know the answer to this, but I think
male apologists need to hear this.
Are there circumstances that you can think of where a woman might get raped
and not scream?
Yes, all the time, still today.
And that's not even a law, you know, like.
But why wouldn't they?
Because they don't want to be killed because they're scared for their lives.
They're scared they're not going to be believed.
There's many reasons or how they're going to be viewed in society.
A lot of women who have been raped even today will not come out
and probably haven't came out to say that because they're not comfortable yet.
It's still not accepted or believed, I should say, in a lot of places.
What's interesting is the recent Danny Masterson situation.
We're dealing with a celebrity with lots of money, really popular.
He's dated several girls over the years.
They've only in the past, I don't know, really, really spoken out in the past
five years to 10 years, but they tried going to the police.
Some of them, some of them didn't want to say anything.
They were embarrassed.
He was known as the donkey puncher or something.
He would get them, drug them.
They'd be unconscious from his date rape drug, and he would go full speed
ram in the anus and they would bleed.
And they literally would go to the police and try to get him in trouble.
Scientology try to stop him.
Simple point is, is that's upper echelon of society's celebrity status.
That these were people, some of them that were dating him.
He was with them when he was doing this stuff.
And look, they found him guilty now.
He's actually being locked up.
I don't know how long, very long time, but you're talking about upper echelon.
And they really, they were embarrassed.
They were ashamed.
The whole the whole thing in the world named it.
Who named it what he was doing?
Like, was that a name that he gave it?
I think the reason, you know, to like, yeah, I guess the only the only thing
I would think of is that according to what Karen de la Carriere was saying,
who's an ex-scientologist, you can call her the queen of ex-scientology.
She described it as like an actual donkey comes up and then just boom,
tries to go full throttle into mating with the other sex.
So this is what he did, but they're unconscious.
So like, he got charged for this stuff.
And anyway, just how fun can that be?
Sleep on someone who's unconscious.
I mean, I don't know about you, but I'm not into that.
How would like them to be, you know, at least engaged in some.
I mean, somebody was a good friend of mine was telling me recently that I haven't
liked but I trust her saying that like men are not statistically hired to do
like certain jobs around corpses for that reason.
So it's a thing.
Yeah. Again, I haven't like, I haven't read the secondary literature or anything
on that. I don't know that I'd want to.
But one of the other things that I think is really telling here,
it's not just a matter of the woman has to cry out.
And I mean, that that could mean that after the rape, she walks outside
and you see this in some of the stories in the Bible, she walks outside
and cries out, I got raped.
But if she doesn't do it immediately then, like nobody's going to believe her.
And there are some the outside the Bible, some of the nearest law
collections that deal with this, there are some laws that say that she has
to actively fight back.
And I talk about it in volume two, I think, volume two.
I meant to mention, yeah, you have both volumes, volume one, volume two,
really good books thrown audible there on Amazon.
Of course, get the paperback hardback.
This is the hard pack.
And let me tell you, a couple of people try to take advantage of me.
I threw these books at them and it stopped the perpetrator from continuing.
This is about 10 pounds, I'd say, throw that at him and you're good.
Just just shameless plug for you, Josh, hard work you're doing.
I want to like pull back for one second.
I think this is an important point to highlight.
And I want to get to the motivation behind why are they defending these ancient laws?
Two things I want to say and then I'll just throw out there.
Evolution, number one, as a society, you can see how some of these really manmade
and I'm using man as an even gender here to try and say like the male in this manmade laws.
These are not God, they could say God said, but these are manmade.
And I'm looking at them and I'm thinking in a if I look at nature, animals that work
in tribes and the way that they are alpha males that are competing with other alpha
males and they own the women in the tribe.
The woman can try and fight back, but ultimately the alpha male is the one.
Look at lions, look at gorillas, look at chimpanzees and the kind of way that
their communities work and see humans where hunter gathers not too long ago.
Eventually agricultural.
So you have to be more systematic about how you're producing your food, smarter,
harvest the whole nine, but you can see the date, the expiration date on these
laws as we evolve and you and me and Ryan see this.
Then we turn over and we look at why would someone want to try and say, yeah,
but, you know, at least they didn't kill them.
They just cut their hands off.
There are still countries today that practice these kind of things that are
backwards. So I say backwards because as humans, you would think we'd all want to
move forward. Yeah.
But no, you have very fundamentalist Muslim societies that I'm friends with
some of these people who are calling liberal inquisition.
We're in a liberal inquisition.
They want us to think and act like that.
No, we want the law from the seventh century to be the law of all time.
We want the law of Moses to be the law of all time.
And they, of course, equate all the law codes as if Moses said them or whatnot.
What the heck is the motivation here?
And I think this is why John Collins work on this so important.
And if people haven't read it, he's got like a 2019 publication called
What Are Biblical Values?
And it's an excellent little read, 200 pages.
But it's so good because he goes through all of these issues.
Essentially, when you take a position on biblical inerrancy and you say,
this is the inspired word of God, it's infallible, right?
It's handed down from on high.
It is true in everything that it says.
That becomes a snapshot in morality and human history.
That's what happened.
So the clock stops ticking.
Moral progression stops because you say, we don't have another inspired text
coming like in 1000 CE, we didn't get an update or something.
So it's like, this one right here, this is what we've got.
And if it says here, kill homosexuals, well, then I mean, God's word from on high.
So what we should be doing, right?
And if it says, you know, that this is the value of X person, you either have
to operate utilizing that as your baseline, or because of your current
moral intuitions and moral progression, you have to say, well, it couldn't mean that.
So that's why when you see these discussions about slavery, like the text
is not ambiguous about owning slaves in the Old Testament or in the New Testament,
for that matter.
But that's why you have the apologetics, because on the one hand,
they want inerrancy to extend to the very letter, right?
And in so doing, this is the word of God.
And therefore, if it says you can do X or I endorse X or whatever,
then that's like part and parcel, right?
As he said in the Latin, the whole genie gig.
And so then you have to say something like either, yep, we're going with this.
Yeah, we're going with this, but it can't mean that.
Or like some Christians, I know, who are more progressive in their approach,
who say, I'm going to cherry pick for me, I don't need it.
I like looking at it, studying it kind of like a science.
I don't need this book.
And she fought me for a long time when I was a fundamentalist, believing
like you described, she'd go, I don't trust it.
Men wrote it.
She had an intuition.
Her instinct was men wrote it.
You can't tell me that something in there is.
And when I met men, I met humans, humans wrote it.
But. But you weren't wrong.
Men wrote it, you know, at the same time.
But what I was saying was humans wrote it, which means we are very selfish
beings. Naturally, it's like, you know, instilled in all of us.
We all have selfish tendencies, no matter how giving you might be.
You look out for you first, right, which is considered selfish.
You don't think that, let's just say God was real.
And God really spoke the words through to them for them to write.
You don't think they put something in there to benefit them, you know?
And that's what I used to tell him.
And he's like, no, it's not, it's from God.
And I'm like, dude, no.
So then we're driving to the beach one day.
Oh, my gosh, you could tell it better than I can.
No, you can tell it.
And I just was like, honey, guess what?
She's like, what? And like, men wrote the Bible.
And she said, you just want to sin.
No, she looked at me like, are you fucking kidding?
Literally. And I was just like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But I can actually prove it.
So I still had to be right in a way.
But like, you know, because I wanted to steal it.
But she I was like, you were right.
You were right. And we left.
Say it. But you didn't like, you know, prove it.
Right. Yeah, because my proof was, you know, my common sense.
But my proof is I'm smarter than you.
Right. My proof is, you know, my instincts say
and my intuitions is that's not accurate.
But, you know, I just had a lot of doubts
and I I tried to believe in the stories.
And it's not that I don't believe that there's not a higher power.
