For those of you who don't know, I was a Christian for most of my life and asking whether God created
the world and the universe and everything that we know that exists. If that was even a question,
it wasn't. I just believed it. I was taught it. And it's kind of like rooting for your own football
team or your own bias position because you were raised that way. That's kind of where I came
from. I didn't even like Lawrence Krause to be honest as a Christian because he was poking against
my sensitive, comfortable religion. Well, in this show, he joins me on MythVision Podcast and he
shows us scientific reasons for why a universe coming out of nothing isn't crazy. It's not a
miraculous thing and it doesn't require God. In fact, God would be an ad hoc proposition.
Let me know what you guys think of this show and make sure you subscribe, like, check out the
Patreon because this is being released early.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Derek Lambert, your host. Guys,
look who's on the screen. I mean, I got Professor Lawrence Krause. I want to start with a little
poetic intro here. Since the dawn of man, our universe and its origins have remained a mystery,
even though theologians and philosophers have drawn conclusions on its origins,
but advancements in science could solve the mystery of the universe's origins and its demise.
The religious have often used God of the gaps arguments to deduce something created us. Is it
possible that we are now able to understand scientifically how all this came to be by natural
means? And this is where we introduce today. We have theoretical physicist and cosmologist
Lawrence Krause, who's the author of the book we're going to be poking into today called A Universe
From Nothing, Why There Is Something Rather Than Nothing. Professor Krause is an advocate
for public understanding of science, public policy based on sound empirical data,
scientific skepticism, and science education. And he's an anti-theist. I used to not like him.
This is a confession up front. When I was a Christian, I did not like him. But he seeks
to reduce the influence of what he regards as superstition and religious dogma in popular
culture. And I commend you for that. And thank you for joining me on MythVision.
Well, it's nice to be with you virtually. I should say I've evolved from being an anti-theist
to being an apotheist. Because I really don't care.
Because God's irrelevant to everything I do. So that never enters into discussions and
40-some odd years being a professor of physics and astronomy. I never heard the word
while I was working in physics. And so it's not that I'm anti-God. It's just that God is irrelevant.
Interesting. That's kind of the point of having you on the show today is to talk about this thing
that you didn't really talk about often. But I think it'll be interesting too, obviously,
to hear the science behind what you're going to say. I really appreciate you joining me. I want to
give a thanks to Anthony Guthrie, my really good friend, for sending the donation to make this
possible. You're the reason that the show is happening. So thank you, Anthony. And we're going
to learn a lot today. So that's my small talk. And I saw a wonderful interview that I had to
mimic some of the questions, but I feel like we're going to take this in a different direction.
How do people respond to your book when you initially put this one out,
the universe from nothing, why there's something rather than nothing? And when you first published
it, do people love it, hate it? Is this because your research destroys the last bastion of God,
as I've heard you say? Well, look, I mean, there were a lot of different reactions.
But I was surprised at the popularity. It became a New York Times bestseller in the first week,
actually. And that surprised me, what always hopes for those kind of things. But I was
surprised that that happened. And I think the point is that people had been waiting for a long time
for an argument. I don't know if Richard Dawkins said this or I did, but it is the last bastion
of religion. I mean, for a long time, religious arguments said, well, the existence of life is
evidence of God, but then evolution demonstrated the diversity of life could come by natural means.
And so the last question that seemed hard to answer is how do you get this universe of 100
billions galaxies, each containing 100 billion stars from nothing, clearly, you need some
supernatural shenanigans. And the remarkable thing is you don't. And I think that's certainly
worth celebrating. And the fact what I look, I don't write books, and I don't generally do
arguments to try and argue against pseudoscience. I mean, I think it's important to do that. But I
really try and get people excited about the real universe, because that's so much more
interesting than the myth and superstition. And so I wrote that book to describe the amazing
revolutions that have taken place in cosmology in the last 50 years,
and to get people excited about those. But a corollary of that is that
that we now have a plausible mechanism to understand how you could get a universe of 100
billion galaxies, each containing 100 billion stars from nothing with no supernatural shenanigans.
In fact, the really remarkable point is that if you asked,
what would a universe created from nothing by physical laws, quantum mechanics, etc.
that lasted four billion years look like? And the answer is it would look
virtually identical to the universe in which we live. Now that doesn't prove it,
but it certainly makes it plausible. And that's remarkable. And it's remarkable for a variety
of reasons, because 30 or 40 years ago, we couldn't even ask that question. It would have seemed like
a non scientific question. And the answer is now we have a whole series of steps in cosmology
discoveries that have changed the way we think about the universe, as well as theoretical arguments
that make it plausible. And I think that's remarkable.
Well said. Yeah, there's a bunch that we're going to be talking about today that's probably going
to be over your head. It was over my head. Your book was something else I have to admit,
like I could keep up to like with you up to a certain point that I was like,
I need a visual on this. I'm like, you know, well, you know, it's a short but I think
science books should be short. And it's a short book. I wanted to do it in the minimal amount
of space to take people through one to puzzle through. But it is complicated stuff. And it's,
it's, you know, it's at the forefront of physics. It actually began. I think you told me beforehand
that not only did you not like me, but you didn't like Richard Dawkins. Yeah, he was tough. And
the book began really what happened was Richard asked me to give a talk at a convention. I think
it was the atheist convention. And I think 2009, I can't remember what year, maybe 2008.
And he asked me to do this, you know, and I had a few days notice and I, and I just sort of
almost put, well, I put together this lecture and it was kind of last minute and I put it
together on the fly. And I, and I may have even called the lecture University of nothing, but it,
it seemed it created a huge stir. And there were like several million people that watched it
afterwards. It was where I made up. I mean, most of the jokes I do are, are invented on this for
the moment. But I was talking to that crowd. And that's when I, I was talking about how every
Adam inside your body comes from a star. And I uttered these words, which are now I see now
see on mugs and other things where I said, you know, so for, you know, forget Jesus, the stars
died so you could be born. Oh, that was so good. I've seen that. Yeah. Yeah. And it was just off
the cuff. But, but in any case, so that was popular enough that I thought, well, maybe this
will resonate with people. Of course, there were the, there were the groups that immediately,
well, you know, the haters take more time often. I mean, some haters do immediately,
but they take more time to develop their arguments. And there were, I did, I did,
I made a joke in the in the early part of the book, just for a joke. But of course, it alienated
a variety of theologians and philosophers. Because I said theologians and philosophers won't like my
my definitions of nothing, maybe, but they're experts at nothing.
And anyway, so that that got their hackles up. And of course, what you read
are ridiculous arguments for people who've actually not read the book, but argue that I
don't when I'm talking about is not really nothing. But of course, they never define
what their real new nothing is, which is the main point. I mean, the Bible doesn't really define
the void, right? Generally, the void of the Bible is this infinite, you know, vast empty space,
right, the void. And that's one kind of nothing. But I'm actually pretty careful in my book to
talk about different kinds of nothing. But there are people who say, well, he's not talking about
a universal, he's talking about a quantum vacuum. And most of them don't even know,
they know what those two, they know how to say those two words, but they don't know what quantum
or vacuum it means. I honestly don't either. Well, no, you know, it's a complicated subject.
And the point is, I'm not even saying that. I'm talking about the universe, everything we see
that we exist now, space, time and everything within it, in our universe did not exist. Now,
if one has the laws of quantum mechanics, you can pop a whole space time into existence,
where there was none before. So the question, of course, that's begged is, well, did anything
else exist where there are other universes? And that, you know, that's a metaphysical question.
And to some extent, one you can address in science, but it's irrelevant. The point is that
our universe didn't exist and that came into existence. Now, any semantic babbling that these
people come up with arguing about a quantum vacuum means they haven't understood the central point
that there literally was no space, no time, no stuff, you know, that are literally everything
that we see did not exist. And I don't care if anything else existed, because that's not the
question. The question is, can you get our universe from nothing? And it literally is nothing. Now,
it is true that in order to, there are a few things I should qualify. First of all, we don't have a
full theory of quantum gravity. So we can't calculate the mechanism by which our universe
could have evolved from nothing. It's just by extrapolating what we now know.
In empty space, quantum mechanics and special relativity tell you that particles can burp in
and out of existence all the time and do and are doing it all the time. Then if gravity is a quantum
theory, which there's no reason to suggest it isn't, quantum mechanics looks like it's fundamental
universe, then space and time, which are the variables of quantum of gravity, become quantum
mechanical objects. And if they're quantum mechanical objects, and space and times can
pop in and out of existence. That's all we need to know to make it to make it plausible.
So if I may, and this is interesting, because I wrote this down, but this is down on my notes
a little, and we were already getting into the deep water. And I'm like, whoa, I love this,
by the way, thank you for this. One of the things that I was thinking about with Richard Dawkins
being a biology expert on this and AO biogenesis, if you will, like the fact that
different elements combined under the right circumstances in some way, we believe that
this is how life began. How it happened in the correct environment and exactly how that's the
complex part, we aren't really able to exactly reenact. But does that translate somewhat into
what you're saying here about the universe is that there's something here we know we have
the components, we have the idea, we just can't like, we don't, oh, there's a picture of it.
Look, it just happened and we don't have the evidence of it actually taking place.
We don't have the full theory, but Richard made more of an analogy. It's kind of pompous to me
to suggest that this argument was the same as Darwin's argument. But this was profound, but
well, and he spent years validating the data. But the idea is very similar. When Darwin came up
with the idea of evolution and came up with all sorts of evidence from looking at fossils and
looking at existing species, he didn't know about DNA. He didn't know the mechanism of genetic
replication and mutation. He didn't know any of that. He just said, look, it's plausible. If I
look at these things and I can demonstrate that there's real good evidence for evolution of diversity,
I don't know the mechanism of that evolution. And in some sense, it's the same. All the evidence
points to a universe from nothing, although we don't know the specific evidence by which it came
into being. And by the way, and that's important about evolution too. Evolution, natural selection
explains the diversity of life from a common ancestor, but it doesn't explain the origin of
the common ancestor that we still haven't don't have a full theory of. We have lots of arguments
suggesting it's plausible. And all the time people are arguing for ways that you natural
mechanisms on earth deep in deep ocean or in layers of various crystal layers that you could
develop a separate replicating object with a membrane and etc. But we don't have those exact
steps yet. I suspect in the next 25 years we will, but we don't have that. But there's no evidence
to suggest it's impossible. And in fact, every bit of evidence to suggest it's likely. And in that
sense, the beginning of life and the beginning of the universe are on the same footing in the
sense that we have a plausible mechanism, but we don't know the details yet.
This is fascinating. I mean, I never thought I'd even be asking these questions. I was like,
God did it and that's enough for me. That's the argument for people who want to stop thinking.
Basically, it's just if you want to, if it seems so puzzling, just say God did it and then you
stop thinking. And the point is that that's too often been the history of many ideas is that people
say, well, look, I can't possibly understand how that could happen. I have no idea how that
can happen. So therefore, God did it. It's like the people who say, I see something in the sky and
I don't know what it is. So it must be aliens. I mean, there's lots of other possible explanations.
And in that case, the aliens are the last least likely possibility. And I would argue in the case
of God, generally, God is the least likely possibility. And of course, that argument,
as you know, is subject to the is called the God of the gaps argument, which is to put God when we
don't understand something. Because the problem with that is every time we understand something,
the gap becomes smaller and smaller. And they shift God. And I think my argument in some sense
closes that gap more or less completely. I mean, it doesn't. There are these questions about was
was there anything before did time exist before was is it infinite in the past and for the future?
These are interesting, potentially interesting philosophical questions. And to some extent,
sometimes physical questions right now, they're metaphysical. But and you know, you can bury
God in in in that realm. But but the point is, if you're doing that, that's fine. But it, you know,
it just makes God more relevant. It literally, as I was not being facetious at the beginning
of the program, when I said that it's never discussed, you don't need God to understand
anything that we can see in our universe. That doesn't make the essence of God impossible. It
just means it's redundant. It's an idea that unnecessary. And so, yeah, if it makes you feel
good, fine, but you don't. But God doesn't add anything to our understanding of anything.
Professor Krauss, I have a hard time, because I don't know the science as you do,
trying to figure out how when we talk about quantum mechanics and things popping in and
out of existence, and we could see that that happens, like, we know it happens. We can't see
it happen directly. We can infer that it happens. But anyway, my question is this is like, when I
look at material matter, right, I live in such an equilibrium. I'm just everything's good. Life's
great. Like, how come everything goes just just the way I like it? Sunrise is the sunset. You know,
my question is where does all this like Bill O'Reilly sunrises, sunsets, no one understands it.
I mean, yeah. Anyway, start going. Well, how does material how do how do I guess I have a very,
very limited understanding on the science here? Sure. But how can nothing in the way you're
defining this produce actual material mass objects of earths and planets and stuff like that? You
don't mean it? Well, it's a subtle idea that, in fact, the point is that, yeah, virtual particles
and antiparticles are popping in and out of existence all the time, but they have to disappear.
Because they violate the if they were if you could measure them, they'd violate what's called
the conservation of energy. If you have nothing, and then you have particles, you appear to violate
the conservation energy. The great thing about gravity is when you include gravity into the
into the works, you can have positive energy and negative energy, gravitational potential
energy, if you wish is negative. And the reason for that is that if I have an object out at infinity,
actually, it's Carl Sagan here. Anyway, if I have an object out of at infinity at rest,
it's reasonable to say it has zero energy, right? But then if it falls towards a planet,
it loses energy, right? It loses potential energy and falls towards a planet. And therefore,
its energy, its gravitational energy here is less than it was there. And if it was zero there,
it's it's negative here. And once you'll offer negative energy as well as positive energy,
then you see you could actually create a system where you create two particles say
particle, antiparticle pair. And yeah, their rest mass has energy, but there's a gravitational
attraction. So potential energy, the gravitational attraction is so negative that it overcomes the
positive energy of the mass. And the total system has zero total energy. And then it can come in
those those particles can persist, they can exist in real life because that they're popping into
existence doesn't violate any rules of conservation of energy. And so literally, the vacuum can burp
particles eventually if there's if there's sufficient, I say gravitational forces, and that
happens near a black hole, for example, particles, antiparticle pairs pop out into existence near
the source of a black hole, and the antiparticle can fall in say, and lose enough energy that the
particle can be radiated. And that's what we call Hawking radiation and black holes radiate.
And so the point is because it because of the negative energy that's allowed by gravity,
you can create it's it's it's like a friend of mine, an eminent physicist named Alan Gooth once
said you it's sort of the ultimate free lunch. Because of the fact that gravity can involve
not just negative energy, but also negative pressure, you can have a phenomenon which was
first described by Gooth, it's called inflation, where you can have a small universe inflate and
become very large, and dump a lot at the end of that dump a lot of energy into space. And all of
that is is due to the negative energy negative pressure of expanding space. And he called it
the ultimate free lunch, because apparently, you start with almost nothing, and you end up
with the universe with lots of energy. And that idea was very influential to me when I talk when
when I was talking about the whole universe creating for nothing. It's really just that
gravity adds a new complexity to the mix, and allows for phenomena which are not
which are not intuitive in any sense, because we don't see you know, the all all objects that we
see mass is a gravitation attractive, it's got positive energy, we're used to gravity always
pulling, you know, and never pushing, and sucking and never blowing, depending on how you're going
to think of it. And and but it turns out, once you allow for general relativity, exotic configurations
of mass and energy can exist, that have strange properties, and change all the rules. And that's
just the way it is in physics, we discover the universe is stranger than we thought it was,
and the rules change. And some people don't like that, they say, no, no, you're not allowed to
change the rules. But actually, discovering the rules are different is what we call learning.
It's something theologians don't know about, it's called learning. And theology has never
learned anything. There's no contribution to knowledge in the knowledge base of humanity
from theology in the last five hundred years. And I say that, not in a biased sense, I've
asked theologians, I've been with theologians, and I challenge them, I say give me one contribution
to knowledge that theology has made since the scientific revolutions in the last 500 years.
And they all say the same thing. What do you mean by knowledge? And and and I and I would
submit that if you asked a physicist or a chemist or a biologist or a psychologist or
what contributions to knowledge they made, their fields are made, they wouldn't say what do you
mean by knowledge, they'd give you an example. And I think they're driven to that because
they don't have examples. And and that's that's that's really important. The fact that religion
has all the answers before you even ask the questions means you can't possibly add to
knowledge because they don't you know, the answer is always God did it. And that's not an answer
to knowledge. It's interesting to like I recently interviewed. Well, let me mention this. Do you
know Tim mentioned? Yeah, he's a friend of mine. Yeah, I know Tim. Did you interview Tim? No, not
yet. I'd love to. I plan on trying. He's hilarious. I'm going to have him on my podcast. So there
you go. Anyway, well, you'll probably beat me to the punch. So no, but I'd love to definitely
interview him. I loved his Thank You God video. And he's talking about the mom who's she had
cataracts and that he's like it couldn't be misdiagnosis. It couldn't be all these other things.
I thought that was man that he really is brilliant. He's he's great. Tim mentioned I'm a huge fan of
his and and I'm fortunate to know him. Yeah, that's awesome. So I interviewed Professor Mark
Psalms, who's actually a guy who wrote a book called The Hidden Spring, trying to find out where
consciousness comes from. And I don't think he means that in a philosophical way. He means this in a
neuroscience way of trying to understand we still don't know the answer. It's a big open question.
It is. But he talks about homeostasis and how it works within us. And there seems to be this like
there's this certain place where pleasure and pain where we're in between it and we survive
this way. I wonder if the universe has somewhat of a form of a homeostasis existence with a
zero energy here. It's like you mentioned, if I'm not mistaken, in previous interviews,
it's zero energy. But there's maybe you can describe this mathematics, there's like a 30
percent something of the total the total energy of the universe, we think it all as we measure,
it seems to be precisely zero. And energy is not well defined in general relativity,
I should say that. But class, the classical Newtonian energy appears to be zero. But that
doesn't mean there's nothing that has energy in it. It says there's a balance of things. But
and so the universe as we measured is spatially flat, which is another way of saying it has zero
total classical energy. The university measured spatially flat, that's not meaning doesn't mean
it's like a piece of paper. That's a two dimensional flat universe, you get that all the time.
Yeah, a three dimensional flat universe is just one that the university always thought you live
in where the x y and z axes are perpendicular to each other and this and point in the same
direction in all of space. In a curved universe, the x y z axes can point here in one place. And
then when you're over here, they go back to get over here, they point in a different direction.
That's because space is curved. But a flat universe everywhere you go, they point in the same
direction. That's it's the universe we always thought we lived in. But we can measure that we
can measure looking for curvature of space and a large scales appears it's not curved.
And and so the universe is flat. But but in order to make it flat, gravitation, you have to have a
certain amount of energy. And we used to think that there was enough matter to make the universe
flat. And I was when I was first studying dark matter when I was a young researcher and assistant
professor. And I one of my big research areas was to look at this dark matter, which is when we
look at our galaxy and all galaxies, most of the mass of those galaxies can't be attributed by stars
and as we attributed to stars, or even hot gas, it's it's something that's invisible, it doesn't
shine. And we call that dark matter. And it's true. And they are dominated by dark matter. And we can
measure that amount of material by measuring the gravitational attraction of things and
the way light bends and all sorts of ways. We're convinced that that there's probably five to 10
times more stuff out there than meets the eye. And it's probably in fact, the strong arguments
that suggests it's a new type of elementary particle, which is why I got involved in the game
as an elementary particle physicist with, you know, proposing dark matter particles and experiments
to look for it, etc. So we thought, Okay, well, that's it, there's enough dark matter to make the
universe flat. But then it became clear and clear, the more we measure that there wasn't enough
dark matter, there's only 30% of the amount of stuff needed to make the universe flat.
And in fact, in 1995, a colleague of mine from the University of Chicago, and I wrote a paper
saying it doesn't work. There's not enough dark matter to make the universe flat. And there's
all these different tests you can do and looking at all the observations, the only way you can have
a flat universe is if 70% of the energy in the universe resided in empty space, if empty space
itself had energy. Now, at the time we proposed that, we didn't believe it. My own feeling was it
meant that some of the observations were wrong, and it was a way to demonstrate that the observations
were wrong. But in fact, it turned out to be exactly right. 70% of the energy of the universe
resides in empty space. And the way you could test that is if you put the energy in empty space,
its gravitation, your appulsive, if you put energy in empty space, it blows, it doesn't suck. And
that causes the expansion of the universe to speed up faster and faster and faster.
And in 2008 and 2009, two sets of astronomers were measuring the expansion rate. The universe
had discovered it was speeding up. And the amount by which it was speeding up was precisely the
amount we said was necessary to be in empty space. And they won the Nobel Prize for that discovery.
It's also interesting you note that the way to test this, they go deep in the earth to try and
keep radiation from coming through, correct? Oh, that's for dark matter. Yeah. So dark energy,
you measure by looking at the expansion of the universe, the energy in space. Dark matter,
we think it's a new type of elementary particle that doesn't really interact strongly, doesn't
interact with light. And how can you detect it? Well, if it's out there, it's also in this room,
it's also in your studio, it's going right through your body as we have our discussion.
It does interact so weakly, most of it goes right through the earth without knowing the earth was
there. But some of it will interact. And the point is, it interacts so weakly that if you
put a dark matter detector here where I'm sitting, there's so many cosmic rays that
they would overwhelm the signal. But if you put the detectors deep underground,
where they're shielded by miles of rock, then the cosmic ray particles get stopped and the dark
matter particles will make it all the way through. And every now and then, one of them might bounce
and be detected. It's not been detected yet, but we're building larger and larger dark matter
detectors to look for. And I'm part of an experimental collaboration that's trying to do just that.
Oh my goodness. So you mentioned the expansion of the universe, right? I came from the theologian
side, the kind that hasn't contributed in the last 500 years. I'm trying to contribute now, but
you know, I have to say, we had what we call eschatology, and it was, Jesus is going to fly
back on a horse, or who knows, whatever picture you have on a cloud. And yeah, every religion
has a strange eschatology, the end. But you have a real concrete vision. And is it a doomsday vision?
Yeah, well, I've written about the future of the universe. And the answer is it's not going to,
it's pretty bad in the long run. It's not going to end well, at least in terms of what people,
you know, what you might think it would be. And I, as I think I told you beforehand, I wrote a
bunch of papers on the long term future of the universe and discovered I was doing eschatology
at the time I'd never heard of the word. And the point is that ultimately, because the expansion
of the universe is speeding up, it's carrying away distant galaxies with it, space is literally
carrying those distant galaxies away with it. And eventually, they'll be moving away from us
faster than light, it's allowed in general relativity, it turns out, because they're not
moving through space faster than light, that's not allowed. But space can do whatever the hell it
wants. And it's, it can, it can expand away from us faster than light. And the, and eventually,
they'll become invisible. And we calculated that in about two trillion years, all the galaxies outside
of our own galaxy that or the galaxies that are bound to our galaxy, will have disappeared. And
astronomers, there'll still be stars around. So we're strong life forms that evolve around stars
in, in, in what will then be a massive galaxy, because it won't be our Milky Way, because our
Milky Way would have collided with Andromeda and a bunch of other galaxies would be a big galaxy.
Any civilizations that develop around those stars will develop astronomy and build telescopes and
look out. And they'll, they'll actually think they live in the universe we thought we lived in 100
years ago, because they won't, in 1925, we thought there was one galaxy in the universe, our Milky
Way galaxy, and the rest of it was empty space, static and eternal. And those astronomers will
look out and see nothing outside of their galaxy, all evidence of the rest of the expansion of the
universe and the rest of the universe will have disappeared. But then if you wait a longer time,
those stars will die out, actually probably merge to form black holes. And then the black holes will
evaporate. And the little to be nothing, the universe will be cold, dark and empty. And that's
the future of the universe. It's cold, dark and empty. So it may be gun with a bang, but it'll end
with a whimper. And that's the future. And the interesting thing is actually, since you mentioned
eschatology, it's an amusing story that I haven't told very often. I was invited to a meeting at the
Vatican of all places. I don't know how many, maybe almost 20, almost 20 years ago, at the
Pontifical Academy in the Vatican to discuss the few basically the future of the universe as seen by
physicists, biologists and theologians. And it was held in the Pontifical Academy where I'm
where Galileo was kind of excommunicated. And it was quite a fancy thing to be in.
And I stayed in the Vatican in one of the hotels in the Vatican itself right next to the big St.
Peter's. And it wasn't a man. Unfortunately, it was the day that I was there during the election.
It was in 2000, I can remember now, because I was watching TV in my little room in the Vatican
when Al Gore won the election. And then I went to bed and then I woke up to catch a plane and
discovered that apparently he hadn't won. And it was very just, it was weird. But anyway. But the
thing that that's an aside, the thing that was interesting at that meeting is was a total failure.
Because we talked past one another. Because for the theologians, the far future was the
resurrection and they were thinking thousands of years or who knows. But for the physicists,
the far future is trillions of years in the future. Because we know that there's no evidence
the universe is going to collapse and eight times go shorter than that. And so we just had nothing
to say with one another, which was my first evidence that really, we did have nothing to say
with another. And as I told the theologians there, and I was quite blunt about it. I said the difference
between my lecturing to you and you lecturing to me is that you have to listen to me and I don't
have to listen to you. The reason being, if you want to be a sensible quote unquote theologian,
you have to know what the evidence of reality is and you have to try and work your myths around
that reality. But as a physicist, I don't have to know anything about your myths. So so so literally,
they had to try and the reason they had the meeting it was, you know, the Vatican has a
Pontifical Academy, which is scientists who advise and the point is they need to know what the
current science is so they can manipulate their stories to be consistent with the science.
You know, they eventually had to decide retroactively that indeed the earth wasn't the
center of the universe or even our solar system. It's a hard way to swallow. They got they got
they got burned with Galileo. And so they've tried to keep up with the science ever since. So
they have to listen to the scientists. But the scientists don't have to listen to the theologians
because they have nothing to add. So it was interesting that when I when I was at this meeting,
which was literally an eschatology meeting at the Vatican, we had nothing to say to one another.
It's interesting. Do you feel the same way about philosophers often? I mean, it sounds like they're
in the same vein. A lot of times it's word fluff and it's it's dual non dualism or something that
is esoteric explanation for reality or this is all consciousness. You said on a previous interview
that because the person mentioned, oh, we're going to talk about reality, you know, we're
back in reality and you're like, no, physics is reality. Can you explain this of what you mean
and how that differs? Well, I don't mean physics. I mean, nature. I mean, the world as we
empirically measure it, there is nothing else, right? I mean, not no knowledge comes by revelation.
It all comes from empirical evidence and you're seeing how the world works. And that's it.
And and and that's the basis of all knowledge. When you say philosophers, I mean, the point is,
it depends on the philosophy we're talking to, right? There's some who just there's some who
just babble words, semantics, but you know, lots of philosophers who try and the philosophy is really
we all do philosophy. But philosophy is a rigorous philosophy is a method by
analysis and critical analysis and logical analysis to probe interesting questions. And
in fields of science, where those questions are not well defined, like say consciousness,
philosophy can be quite important because it can frame the important questions. And I, you know,
they're philosophers like Dan Dennett, who's really heavily involved in, you know, relating to
neuroscience. And that was true early on in physics, when the questions were ill defined. And
then the philosophy was, it was called natural philosophy after all. And it was an important
for setting the stage to the kind of questions that would be relevant to driving the field.
But once the field began to mature more, the important questions to physicists
are not the ones that philosophers ask. And in order to ask the important questions, you have to
have a lot of intellectual baggage, you have to know where in order to know what the next
interesting thing is, you have to know all the stuff that we now know. So it becomes
physicists who are asking the questions. And philosophy really hasn't has no impact on physics
nowadays. That doesn't mean it's unimportant. It just has no impact. Right. There are philosophers
of science and they do serious work, but it doesn't and it may be laudable work, but it doesn't
impact on the on the development of physics itself. That was what I was going to ask is,
I guess, what do in the vein of this, what does physics do that philosophy cannot do?
And I mean, when it comes to, well, when it comes to physical questions, absolutely nothing,
it can do a lot more and it does a lot more. And that's why physics has progressed. And,
you know, the philosophy of science really hasn't done much. But, but when it when it comes to
non physical questions like consciousness, which maybe ultimately is a physics question, but,
but it's so complicated, it's going to be studied by neuroscientists.
Physics doesn't have much to say at this point. Some people think it does. My friend,
Roger Penrose thinks somehow physics is related to consciousness. I think he's wrong.
But, but, you know, we'll, we'll, we'll find that out. But, but right now,
what physics doesn't do is, is, is produce interesting questions about consciousness
that philosophers can at least frame. So there's some room left for them. Let me put it that way.
This is really interesting because I was interviewing Professor Mark, Mark Psalms in
his book, and he seems to have somewhat of a quantum mechanic angle of trying to explain,
I think, and I look some of his stuff went over my head in his book. So it's really,
really fascinating. So I, I really appreciate you going into this and explaining. So this
is the next question I'd like to pose to you if you don't mind. Sure.
What alternate explanation are there scientifically for the existence of the universe?
Like, I know there's more than one that could potentially make sense. Like,
for example, some people say that the universe's origin, you know, the Big Bang is actually the
end of a previous, right? It's a theory or a hypothesis, if you will, but we don't have evidence
prior to that because we can't empirically observe or test in any way. It's metaphysical.
But are there any other metaphysical explanations to you that are just as plausible that don't
require more ones than that? That's very implausible based on everything we know. But the point is that,
as I said, t equals zero is an open question right now. And so was there a time before the
universe? Well, Stephen Hawking would say, and I would tend to agree that it might be a bad question,
because if space began, so did time, and there literally may be no time before the Big Bang.
So you can't even ask the question, what was before? It's not a good question.
That's frustrating. But that's just the way it is. But that may not be the case. You're right,
it could have been, it could have been an infinite cycle of collapse and expansion. There's no evidence
for it. There's no good theory. There are people who promote that idea, but it's really not generally,
most physicists think it's ugly and not well, well defined. But you know, the best, the best
What convinces you the most, the best metaphysical argument for a universe is,
is comes from inflation is that, is that
so a, and it's for the origin of a multiverse, it's not really for the origins of our universe,
but I'll explain it. So early on, you have, let's say you have a Big Bang and early on,
the energy of space begins to dominate over everything else on the universe began against
to expand very, very fast. And then there are local pockets where there's like a, like a seed
forms, like a, like a raindrop where you decouple from that background expansion. And a local
hot Big Bang develops, all that energy of empty space gets dumped into matter and radiation.
And it's the beginning of what essentially is the beginning of a Big Bang. Okay, our Big Bang.
But that means our universe sort of formed, but that means more, that means there's much more
space outside of our universe, which is still expanding exponentially fast. And there could
be other universes forming now, and other universes collapsing now. And it could be,
it could be infinite in time, that process could have gone on infinitely. And there could be an
infinite number of universes and, and, and they're all way beyond the region we'll ever be able to
see because they're expanding exponent in this space, it's expanding exponentially fast. So the
universes are being dragged apart faster than you'll ever be able to measure. And so most of us
think that it's most likely that we live in what's called a multiverse, which is namely our
universe is not all there is, there's other potential universes in which even the laws of
physics could be different. Because what I didn't get to say early on is that the one presumption
that it's simple to make that were that well, the one presumption that makes it easiest to
understand a universe from nothing is to assume that quantum mechanics, you know, in some sense
pre exist our universe that the laws of physics were fixed. And our universe arose. And but people
say, Well, if you have the laws, then that's nothing. And my answer to that as well, you don't
necessarily need the laws, it could be that the laws come into existence when the universe comes
into existence. And the other universes come in can come into existence with different laws of
physics. And, and that we don't know that's that's really metaphysics, but it's certainly a possibility.
But it's quite possible that in these other universes in the multiverse,
there are other laws of physics that particles have different have different masses that they're
different forces, all of that is possible. And I think that's the best metaphors, sort of metaphysical
picture of, of, of, of our, of, if you want, our, our universe's origin. But, but we don't, but
anything, anything we say about t equals zero at the exact beginning is pure speculation. It's,
it's, it's metaphysics, you can call that philosophy if you want. But we don't have any evidence to,
to sort of refute it. And therefore, right now, it's, you know, it's fine to talk about, but it's
just talk. How does this differ from string theory? Well, string theory purports to be a theory of
quantum gravity. So, and a theory of space and time in string theory requires, at this point,
apparently more than four dimensions, maybe 10 or 11, although it's not really well defined.
And it's the whole theory isn't well defined. But if it's a theory, if it is ultimately a
theory of quantum gravity, and it could be, then it could explain specifically how, how the mechanism
by which space, if you want to call that comes into existence, but it's right now, it's a very
poorly, it's, it's very, I was going to say poorly understood is a better way than poorly defined,
poorly understood idea. It's really got a lot of features that make it attractive to physicists,
but it hasn't yet explained anything about our universe or the origin of our universe. It has
the potential to do that. And maybe one day I will, but there's no evidence that it has yet.
This is fascinating. I have to ask a good question for my friend, Dr. Joshua Bowen,
and he gets this a lot. So we're going to pose it to you. And this is a theoretical physicist
we're talking to. So you're one of the leading guys out there. We often hear people who argue for
the existence of God through presuppositional apologetics. I'm sure you've engaged with people
like this. They pose questions like this, if you remove God from your worldview, what takes his
place? What is the, and then this is really the pose to you. And I'd like you to give your honest
like response on you. I was going to say that real quick, real quick, I just want to finish this.
What is the foundation? The ultimate fundamental, non-dependent source of existence that institutes
and secures all possibilities and impossibilities. How would you address a question like this?
Well, the point is, you don't need such a thing. Why do you need such a thing? There's no, when
you don't need a, you don't need a purposeful source, things can just come into existence.
Right. As I often say, the lights, I've got studio lights on here and the photons are being
emitted by the atoms in the light bulbs didn't exist before they were emitted, right? They
didn't exist. They didn't need some God to say, okay, come on out now. And it was just laws of
nature. And so the nature can have, you know, laws without any, anyone, the presumption that you
require some intelligent entity to create that is just a human anachronism. You don't really need,
so the point is what replaces God? The answer is you don't need anything to replace God.
There's no need for God in the equation anywhere. And in fact, actually, when I think about it,
I did Steven called the Colbert report years ago. And, and it was when the universe of nothing
first came out, we had fun. And he said, so, so you say God literally is nothing is not that
there's no thing that's God. And I say, yeah, and he said, well, if God is nothing, can't the
universe come from him? It was his joke. And you know, and I think, okay, if that makes you happy,
fine. That is so good. That was a really clever statement. He's very clever. Yeah, it is funny,
though. You're right. And I think it is. And I'm actually interviewing Dr. Michael Shermer come
Monday, we're going to be hanging out on his believing brain book. And that one blew my mind
because all the mechanisms for why we believe are really discussed throughout his book. And
we'll be going into that. I'll be mentioning you, of course, on the show. I promise I'll tell him
not to say anything bad, you know, I'm not just using a good friend. Say hi. Yeah, I know y'all
are close friends. So there's someone out there. This is how I always like to end things. We're
going to ask etology this show and hopefully on a good bang here. And you're talking to someone
who is wanting to be more scientific minded. They're struggling with the emotions that you
understand the psychological. I'll use the word damage, but I'll say the psychological baggage
that comes with these superstitions that we have your goals to get people to think more empirically
and to start observing the facts. What would be your encouragement to the person right now who's
afraid to let go of this concept of God, kind of like when you're a kid, you have an invisible friend
or it's like a mommy and daddy, you know, they're praising in church, their hands are high, like
pick me up daddy. That's really what they're doing psychologically. What would you say to the
person who wants to take what you're saying, but they're afraid, they're afraid of the repercussions
and hell and sure, sure. The first thing I would say is that we already use the language incorrectly.
We talk about a loss of faith as if losing faith is a loss. And in fact, it's not it can be a great
game because if you give up this notion that you that you possibly that's impossible understand
reality and begin to ask questions about nature, you gain a lot, you don't lose anything. And
the real thing I'd say is that the real universe is so fascinating, you don't need the fairy tales.
It's awe inspiring to look out at a Hubble Space Telescope picture and and realize the
amazing universe and to think how fortunate we are to have evolved in such a universe for a short
time to have a consciousness where we can ask such questions. So instead of being being worried,
you should you'd enjoy your brief moment in the sun. Enjoy the fact that that we're here as a
cosmic accident does not make life purposeless. It means we make our own purpose and it makes
every instant we're alive more precious. Enjoy and exploit the brain you've been given and experience
the universe in its totality. Learn about it. Enjoy it. It's fascinating. It's it's wonderful.
It's pleasing and and and enjoy the experience of being human. The opportunity to love others,
to get to know other people, to communicate, to look out. Isn't it amazing that we here on this
remote planet in the middle of nowhere can look out with our telescopes and have developed ideas
that allow us to understand the evolution of the universe back to almost the beginning.
Celebrate existence and really celebrating existence is what is what reality is all about
and you don't need you don't need fairy tales to do that. Wow. Well said. I couldn't have said it
better myself. Ladies and gentlemen, make sure you guys go and check out where's that right here.
Get his get his books. He's got his books on Amazon. I have the link down in the description.
I really ask you guys to go check out his material. The book that I was reading was a universe from
nothing right here. And beside it is hold on. Okay, so let me go back. Let me go back. And beside it
is beside it is my new book. So this one that just came out a few months ago of physics climate
change. Oh, wow. I think he accidentally backed out, ladies and gentlemen. Let's see what happened
here. Here he is. He literally popped in and out of existence just now. We have evidence. We have
evidence now. I was in that quantum vacuum a while for a while. I wonder how painful it was.
Seriously, get the books. I'm actually going to check this one out next because I know some
climate change deniers. And yeah, I need to read this because I'm interested in hearing what an
actual scientist has to say about it. Plus, you have other stuff. The greatest story ever told
that sounds so interesting to me because theology is all about stories and we're a narrative type
creature. So get his works and check out his website. He also has a podcast. If you guys aren't
aware of it, make sure you go check out his podcast, the latest book. Here's the website.
I'm sure sign up and get his weekly or how does it work? You give emails out and stuff to notify
people? We generally announce when it's out. Yeah. The podcast for our Patreon subscribers,
they get a notice right away when there's ever a new one. But same for the YouTube subscribers
because it's a video podcast that comes out eventually on YouTube. We have usually one
new podcast a month because it requires a fair amount of production. But we also have a lot of
things in between. I do some physics ones and stuff. And we have some fascinating guests.
This last month was a filmmaker, Werner Herzog, for example, was a film filmmaker.
Next month will be a Nobel Prize winning physicist. And so we jump back and forth
between science and culture. And we've had people from Ricky Gervais on too.
Oh, I saw that. I saw that clip. He's a funny guy. So how much is it to join your Patreon?
Um, the it's $5 a month. Well, actually, there's still a $2 a month option. But if you want to
have, we also do a Q&A once a month, a live Q&A with me. And if you want to do that, it's $5 a
month. But you can just get the videos for just $2 a month, which is pretty, pretty coffee. Not
man, I buy a Starbucks every day. Not even a coffee. Two months is a coffee. Yeah. You're right.
You're right. Well, thank you so much, man. Let's do this again. I hope we can do this to promote
what you're doing. I appreciate all the information. Please, I'd like to have you back.
Thanks. It was fun. Okay, you take care. Ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
