If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, there are different
tiers as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much, don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
I just wanted to show you guys something glorious before I get into this.
That right there is the queen, the queen of my life.
Sorry the room's a mess, but we're over here, just moved into our new house and I'm about
to try to chip away at something.
The best I can.
You know, I had to write this up.
We had to have this documented if you will because it's just too much to go over.
So it's the Messianic New Covenant Israelitism, Israelitism.
On August the 14th, my friend Jason DeCosta put a video discussing the views of Dr. Jason
Staples from the perspective of Israel only.
And today he put out yet another video discussing Dr. Staples.
And I have to say as much as I was really looking forward to hearing Jason's take because
he has some really good videos.
I think there's some major issues with his analysis.
So I'd like to take the time to set the record straight for Jason and others.
And before I even start, I want you to know like I honestly think that if me and him hung
out in person and I was still drinking, I said this the other day, we would have beers together
and hang out, probably have, you know, cookout, family hangouts, things like that.
I think he's a great guy.
I think he's a very likable dude.
I think he, he just seems really cool, really cool, chill guy and he knows a lot man.
He's a brilliant guy.
He knows what he's talking about.
So I want to present this.
I do like him.
He's very smart and insightful person when it comes to the Bible and Israel only, but
I think he's wrong about a few things and I'd like to point them out for his benefit.
Now, of course, before we get on the scholars and the others, they're going to be bringing
in stuff that may not even be discussed in this video.
So we'll be looking forward to Dr. Carrier, Dr. Staples' interview with me and technically
this is just me putting some notes together and trying to set the record straight.
This is not my opinion against his, Jason DeCosta.
I'd like to focus strictly on Dr. Staples' work and where I think Jason DeCosta may be
misrepresenting it and I'll try to refer to these gentlemen as Dr. Staples and DeCosta
wherever I can, just so I don't confuse their names, the same Jason.
So I hope this doesn't come off rude in any way.
I want to specify that and I am going to be reading this.
So bear with me.
I had to type this out.
Dr. Staples' article was published nine years ago in the journal Biblical Literature.
It's called What Do The Gentiles Have To Do With All Israel?
A fresh look at Romans 1125-27.
It's great that Iowars, like Jason DeCosta, are finally getting around to addressing it.
But I think they really need to read it carefully before they get too excited about where they
think Dr. Staples might agree with their theory.
However, DeCosta did admit in his first video on August the 14th that he only read some
of Dr. Staples' recent post on Bart Ehrman's blog and that he should have paid better attention
to it.
He also committed to reading the blog post in the future and to give a thorough response,
which I really hope he does.
And he admitted that he really needs to read Staples' 2011 article a second time.
I totally promote that because it's 20 pages and has a lot of information to absorb.
I agree that it's definitely worth rereading.
Now after DeCosta's initial reading, right off the bat, he commends Dr. Staples for coming
very close to the Israel-only position.
He commends Dr. Staples for making the correct distinction between important terms, such
as Jews, being a subset of the Israelites.
DeCosta basically takes a victory lap for Israel-only, claiming that Dr. Staples' work
100% backs up his Israel-only view.
Now I put in quotations because a lot of this stuff is actually verbatim in the video response
that he did on Dr. Staples, which wasn't a long video, it was a quick video.
And so he says it backs up Israel-only 100%.
He characterizes Dr. Staples as a complete Iowar-type scholar in terms of his understanding
of Romans 11.
Now that really seems like a shining endorsement.
However, he accuses Dr. Staples of going wrong on one particular point based on what
he can recall the article, and he admits they could be wrong about this.
He says that he's under the impression that Dr. Staples is a so-called wannabe Israelite.
In other words, he's a Christian.
So Dr. Staples necessarily believes that he's part of the narrative and that Israelites
are still being saved today.
This is inconsistency at its finest, according to DeCosta.
It seems like being a Christian essentially disqualifies a person from evaluating the
evidence objectively.
And that can happen, don't get me wrong, but he's definitely using this as an argument.
So according to DeCosta, there's a problem with Staples' theology off the top, because
allegedly he's not recognizing the eschatological nature of those last days, and what was all
coming to a close, and when that would be.
That being the destruction of the temple.
This is full preterism.
Apparently he's at a disadvantage in believing that he's part of the program and part of
the gospel mission.
DeCosta asserts that Dr. Staples needs to come out of Christianity a little bit in order
to understand that.
It makes a lot more sense if we exclusively it down to Israel.
But DeCosta is careful to repeatedly point out he could be wrong.
He could be wrong.
And I think he actually is wrong about Dr. Staples.
Now I'll try to explain why that is.
As an aside, I'd like to point out that starting a critique of Dr. Staples with these accusations
does seem to be a textbook example of both a strawman fallacy, not addressing the stillman
version of Staples' argument, and poisoning the well, preemptively presenting irrelevant
information in order to discredit someone.
So he's a Christian, don't listen to him, he's wrong automatically.
You can poison the well in these areas.
So I'm sure DeCosta is simply trying to point out Staples' biases up front, but I don't
think this is valid if he can't actually point out instances where Staples' biases
are getting in the way.
In any case, the so-called error that DeCosta points out is this.
According to Dr. Staples, as expressed by DeCosta, non-elect Gentiles are inside of
the salvation narrative, along with gentilized or gentilized Israelites of the Northern tribes.
Here's exactly what he says in quotes.
Basically, what Dr. Staples does is understands that a lot of these saved Gentiles being gathered
in from the nations are actually the dispersed Israelites.
They're the Northern tribes, they're the paganized Israelites who've been gathered back in to
fulfill the mission to save all Israel.
But he then goes on to add that other Gentiles were added in alongside, so in other words,
this in-gathering of the Israelites from the nations would open up the door, so to speak,
to allow other real Gentiles in.
And DeCosta claims that there are two problems with that, according to the narrative.
One, the eschatological nature and how it all ended.
All the elect would be raised, according to Paul in 1 Corinthians 15.
And number two, the fullness of the nations had to come in by the end, which was within
the generation before some of them standing there would die.
So basically, if I understand DeCosta correctly, Dr. Staples is refuted by the a-prur-i assumption
that full preterism is true, and that Paul was somehow aware of the events that would
transpire after his death.
But I think we could safely assume that the doctrine of full preterism is not within the
scope of Dr. Staples' analysis, as it's just not something that Bible scholars tend to
take into consideration.
So obviously, this is just something full preterists have to deal with, with when evaluating
Bible scholarship in general.
DeCosta goes on to question Dr. Staples in a way that seems to beg the question that
IO doctrine is in fact established as being true.
Are more than the elect coming in, elect is always a term that refers to biological Israel,
never Gentiles who have faith.
Now I want to point out that DeCosta does consistently fall back on the idea that anything
is possible in the realm of supernatural make-believe.
The story is a supernatural tale, an ideal story that is not concerned with such historical
plausibility, etc.
Clearly anything can happen in a fictitious narrative.
Well, anything but the inclusion of the actual non-Israelite Gentiles into the communities
Paul is addressing, that's just illogical according to DeCosta.
Now if anyone thinks I'm strawmaning DeCosta here, I'll provide links to the first video
and second video he recently put out.
I'm happy to be fact-checked on this all day, today's video basically reiterates all the
points I just mentioned, that Jason Staples is allegedly a futurist Christian.
DeCosta affirms that these futurist Christians must necessarily assume that the Israelites
are still being gathered, because the fullness of the nations has not come in yet.
So by default all Israel has not been saved.
And this is supposedly the clincher against Dr. Staples' entire thesis.
It seems like the implications is that Dr. Staples must necessarily be blinded by his
religious bias, that necessarily render him incapable of providing an objective analysis
of the text.
Now that's an interesting aspect of DeCosta's view that's worth pointing out here.
On the one hand, the epistles of Paul are supposedly fictional.
Now I don't know what this means exactly, perhaps they're epistolary fiction.
Like they were written to fake audiences and describing made-up situations.
Fiction was a thing in the ancient world.
However, DeCosta and other Ior seems to frequently contradict this view by claiming that there
were in fact, in actual history, ethnically distinct paganized northern Israelites dispersed
throughout the Roman Empire in the first century AD.
He frequently supports this assertion by quoting a single passage in Josephus and by referencing
the Maccabeean literature.
He dismisses any skepticism in his historical proposition, so just take note of this apparent
contradiction here.
One, either we're dealing with fake epistles written to fake Christian audiences that consist
exclusively of Israelites regardless of who these people were in actual history, or we're
dealing with real letters written to real people who actually existed in history and
these people were all actually Jews or distinct paganized northern Israelites.
I'll just keep this issue in mind, I'll touch on it later, so just don't forget about that.
Now let's transition from DeCosta and take a look at what Dr. Staples actually says
to determine if DeCosta is accurately characterizing the still man version of Dr. Staples' thesis
you can judge for yourself.
In terms of what Staples posted on Bart Ehrman's blog in July and August, most of it recapitulates
the content of his 20 page article.
I'll provide links to the blog post, those who want to explore it, he made three posts
in total, and by the way he responds to questions, so if you want to ask him a question, he
responds and I've asked the IOers to please write questions and I'd like to see the engagement
of what he responds to the IOers who are promoting their view and trying to test him because
this would be the guy that's so close, you know?
Number one on these posts, he says what does Paul mean by all Israel will be saved?
The post number two on blog, on Ehrman's blog, why does Paul switch from talking about Jews
to Israel?
And post number three is did Jesus fell to restore Israel?
Paul's solution to the problem.
I do want to touch on a couple of things that Dr. Staples wrote in the blog post and in
the comments underneath the post which may be helpful for this analysis.
In the comments asked Dr. Staples to define the term Gentile, here's his answer.
Quote, Gentile is just an English rendering of the ancient Hebrew and Greek words for
nation, goi and ethnos respectively.
In the Hebrew Bible, the nations are the various people groups across the earth of which Israel
is the one specifically chosen to be Yahweh's covenant people.
On occasion, the nations is used as shorthand to refer to the nations other than Israel.
This latter use of the term becomes more common in the literature of late Second Temple period
and in the New Testament, the nations almost always refers to everyone else.
Paul uses the collective noun nations or nation to refer both to non-Jewish groups and to
individuals within those people groups akin to using America to refer to the collective
or to Americans, a use that we also find in later rabbinic literature.
I can't or at least won't go into more detail here, but if you're really interested in
more detail, I suggest taking a look at Ishe Rosenzai, I may not be pronouncing his last
name correct, and Adi Afir's 2018 book, Goi, which it engages in a highly
and quite technical theoretical at times history of the term.
Their hypothesis, which I'm sure I fully agree with, is that Paul's use of the term
to refer to individuals is in fact an innovation.
I'll post a link in the description to the article by Rosenzai about the term Gentile.
In any case, anyone who wants to check it out, I'll post a link to the blog, post,
and to Staples' article. Here are a couple of key sections from Staples' second and third post.
Putting the pieces together, Paul appears to read Hosea as a twofold prophecy.
Each directly involving Gentiles or Gentile status.
First, Northern Israel would no longer be distinct from the rest of the nations.
They effectively become Gentiles. This does not seem to be what happened with the Northern
Israelites who were scattered by Assyria. They intermarried with other peoples,
thus assimilating into those groups, and ceasing to be their own separate ethnic group.
But at some later time, and this is the part Paul specifically quotes,
God will restore Israel from being not my people, Gentiles, to put it plainly.
Much of Israel has gone native and become Gentiles,
so now God is fulfilling his promise to restore Israel by incorporating Gentiles.
The Assyrians were experts at breaking up rebellious people groups.
Their primary strategy was to deport much of the population, dispersing them among
different regions of the Assyrian Empire, ensuring that they were spread too thin
to unify and rebel again. And within a few generations,
these dispersed groups would typically intermarry among the other people groups
in those areas, effectively losing their distinct ethnic identity and becoming
melting pot Assyrians. Such practices are considered genocide by today's standards.
This is ultimately what happened to the Northern Kingdom of Israel.
As Assyria deported large portions of the population,
scattering them into separate areas for a theologically charged and hyperbolic
account of these deportions, C. 2 Kings 17.
Another question that was posed to Staples on the second blog post relates to the Josephus
passage that Dacosta keeps referencing as proof that there were, in fact,
Northern Israelites dispersed throughout the Roman Empire.
I'll give you the whole passage in question and provide a link below
to provide context for the question I'm about to read.
This is what Josephus says in antiquities book 11, chapter 5, section 2, line 133.
But then the entire body of the people of Israel, Israelites,
remained in that country. The entire body, entire, entire, entire body of the people of Israel,
Israelites, remained in that country.
Wherefore, there are but two tribes in Asia and Europe subject to the Romans, only two.
While the 10 tribes are beyond the Euphrates till now and are in immense multitude and not
to be estimated by numbers. Interesting. In quote. The interesting part is not part of the quote,
but that's just me saying that out loud to emphasize.
Now, Josephus clearly states that Asia and Europe were home to only two tribes,
and that the remaining 10 are beyond the Euphrates.
However, there seems to be a very popular opinion among Ior's
that beyond the Euphrates somehow encompasses Asia Minor.
Pause one second here. I am going to exit this so I don't hear it.
Okay. Beyond the Euphrates somehow encompasses Asia Minor.
To illustrate this point, here's a map posted recently in an IO group that illustrates Ephraim
being dispersed all over the West. Note, however, that this map doesn't illustrate Ephraim's
dispersion as far as Spain, which is where Paul claims he was going in Romans 15-24 after passing
through Rome. Note, where the Euphrates is on that map, on the far right, now with that in mind,
here's a question that was asked to Dr. Staples in the comments regarding Josephus' passage.
If Josephus claims there were numerous descendants of the Northern tribes beyond the Euphrates,
and that only the Southern tribes returned, why do we suggest that the Assyrians effectively,
ethnically cleansed them out of existence, and that there were no 12 tribes in Jesus' day?
Do you mean that there were simply no 12 tribes in that particular region in Jesus' day,
or do you outright discredit Josephus' account? 2 Kings 17-6 says that the King of Assyria
settled Israel in Halah and Habor, on the river of the Gozan, and in the cities of Medes.
2nd Estra's 1339-49 claims that nine tribes were miraculously led across the Euphrates and
wandered for a year and a half to a distant region called Arzareth, another land,
where allegedly human beings had never lived, or had ever lived. It goes on to prophesy their return
in the end times, when the Most High will miraculously lead them home. If it was a common
knowledge that the lost tribes were in that particular location, why don't we see a concerted
effort on the part of early Christians in the New Testament to spread the gospel to those lost
Israelites in particular? Here is Staple's answer to that question.
Good question. The best explanation is that the perspective of Josephus and 2nd Estra's
was not common knowledge in that period. They present only one of quite a few opinions for
the fate of the northern tribes in operation in that period. There is a debate in the Mishnah.
For example, in which one of the rabbis R. Joshua argues that the nations scattered by the Assyrians
no longer exist as ethnically distinct entities.
Other sources, such as Tobin, have other perspectives on the issue.
There is also no evidence for Josephus' claim that there were 10 distinct Israelite tribes
across the Euphrates somewhere. It seems to have been a matter of faith for him, not an empirical
claim. Here is part of a follow up response to Staple's quote. In terms of the other options
available in the 1st century Jewish Christians, are there any empirical claims that the 10 lost
tribes dispersed among the nations were still ethnically distinct entities, contra rabbi Joshua,
that had since moved west into the dispersion of the Roman Empire separate from the Jewish
diaspora? Southern tribes? Here is Jason's response. Dr. Staple's.
Those who thought there were still ethnically distinct entities typically imagine them as
across the Euphrates somewhere in the east. Note that Josephus draws the distinction between
those who are under the Roman Empire, those from the southern tribes, and the remnant of the other
10 tribes which he envisions as an innumerable multitude somewhere in the east, the one potential
point of contact for the idea of the Israelite remnants in the west is Hosea 11 verse 10. His
children will come trembling from the Mediterranean Sea, but that's tenuous at best. I think it's
probably more accurate to say that the earliest Christians who left records thought Israel had
been scattered to the four corners of the earth or to the ends of the earth and therefore had been
scattered and intermingled everywhere. I do think James 1 verse 1 and 1st Peter understand the tribes
of Israel as having been scattered and mixed everywhere and have adopted the same view that
the next post argues is reflected in Paul, understanding those Gentiles who have been
incorporated in the Jesus movement as members of a renewed 12 tribe Israel and effectively
resurrected Israelites. I don't think there's strong evidence that the Gentile converts imagined
themselves as biological descendants of Jacob. Paul refers to them as descendants of the Patriarchs,
but he emphasizes they've become such by receiving the Spirit and participation in Christ.
The first person plurals, especially 1 Corinthians 10 verse 1, and his insistence that Abraham is
the father of all the faithful, Romans 4 verse 12 through 16, work pretty powerfully together on that
front. Galatians also argue strongly that the uncircumcised faithful are already reckoned as
Abraham's seed, which would make them descendants of the Patriarchs by the work of the Spirit."
Staples article, so that so I think it should be clear from those excerpts from Airman's blog
that Jason Acosta probably doesn't fully grasp the extent to which Dr. Staples views actually
clash with Io. But since he admits to having only partially reading through the blog post,
let's see what Dr. Staples says in his actual 2011 article that Acosta actually read.
Staples starts by outlining four major interpretations of all Israel in Romans 11, 25,
and on. Number one, the ecclesiastical interpretations, which equates Israel and the
Church arguing against defining Israel on ethnic grounds, based on Paul's redefinition of
Israel in Romans 9 verse 6. Number two, the total national elect view, which argues that the complete
number of elect from the historic empirical nation, i.e. all elect Jews, which would be something
that Dr. Price would talk about, will be saved in the same manner as the Gentiles, i.e. through
Christ. Number three, the two covenant perspective, which is held by a small minority contingent of
scholars holding to a two covenant perspective, arguing that both the all and Israel should be
taken at face value, to mean that every individual Jew will be saved by membership in the Jewish
covenant, regardless of the reception of the gospel. And think about that for a second guys,
that's a held scholarly position, I suspect, as a minority, but there are people who hold it
that all that existed in the first century really were Jewish people. There wasn't the 10 tribes
in actual evident existence. They had been assimilated. Anyway, I'm messing up. Number four,
the eschatological miracle position in which Paul envisions a future salvation of all Jews
at or immediately prior to the eschaton, presently holding the majority. So after the fullness of
the Gentiles, Romans 11-25, has come in, the Jews will finally be saved all at once, probably
through some mass conversion and a small minority advocate for some kind of retroactive salvation
for all Jews throughout history. Staples provides a handy illustration of the relationship between
the concepts of Israel versus Jews. According to Dr. Staples, the strong consensus view is that
Israel must mean all ethnic or empirical Israel, all Jews. This is represented by the article on
the left. However, this is not Staples' own view. So Staples sets out to answer three primary
interpretive questions. How does Paul define all Israel and what does Paul mean, the fullness of
the nations? And how is the salvation of all Israel related to the ingathering of the fullness of
the nations? In summary, Staples' article seeks to answer the question, what does the
ingathering of the fullness of the Gentiles have to do with the salvation of all Israel,
the heart of Io? He outlines the following definitions for the terms Israel as it is used
in the Hebrew Bible, the patriarch, Jacob, Israel, the nation composed of his descendants, that is,
all 12 tribes of Israel including Judah, the northern kingdom, the 10 tribes of the house of
Israel, excluding the southern kingdom and the house of Judah, separate, and the returnees from
Judah after the Babylonian exile. Staples claims that the evidence points to the fact that the
first century Jews, Paul in particular, continued to make the distinction of all Israel as referring
to all 12 tribes as a whole. Josephus certainly upholds the distinction referring to Israelites
in antiquity and in antiquities only, capitals, only in the book antiquities, in reference to the
pre-exilic and exilic periods. According to Staples, once the northern tribes are off the scene,
Josephus restricts himself to more precise terminology referring only to the southern
tribes. He no longer speaks of Israel but only the Jews. For ease of reference, here are the
historical periods we're talking about. Here are some key quotations of Dr. Staples' paper,
which I have broken up and redacted to present the sailing points. Quote number one. The Qumran
community was not alone in anticipating a full restoration of the northern tribes. For Ezra,
13 verse 40 through 47, expects the eschatological restoration of the 10 tribes still lost in
exile as does testament of Benjamin 10, which connects this restoration with the resurrection
and the Lord revealing his salvation to all nations. Number two. Evidence from the early
Jesus movement suggests similar expectations. Jesus' selection of the 12 and his promise
and his promise that they would judge the 12 tribes clearly demonstrate anticipation of a
pan-Israelite restoration as does his promise that the Son of Man will gather the elect from the
four winds. Number three. The present consensus notwithstanding, Paul also makes it abundantly
clear in Romans 9 verse 6 that when he says Israel, he does not restrict his meaning to ethnic
Jews, nor does he think all who are born Jews are Israel. In addition, Paul frames his ministry
in New Covenant language, suggesting the centrality of the restoration of all Israel
to his gospel. In considering the role of the New Covenant in Paul's proclamation,
it is critical to remember that Jeremiah's prophecy primarily concerns the reconstitution
of all Israel. That is, both Israel and Judah will be restored by means of God's writing the law on
their hearts. In fact, the prophecy is part of the larger section promising the return of the
northern kingdom and the reunification of all 12 tribes. Significantly, Gentiles are not mentioned
in Jeremiah's prophecy. The covenant will be made with only Israel and Judah. Thus, if Paul thought
that the New Covenant was being fulfilled, he would have been expecting the miraculous return
of the northern tribes. Instead, he strangely obsesses over the mystery of the circumcision-free
justification of the Gentiles, while still insisting that he is preaching the fulfillment
of the New Covenant. It is in pondering this paradox that all the pieces snap together.
Paul's mystery is that faithful Gentiles, those with the law written on their hearts,
see Romans 2 verse 14 through 15, are the returning remnant of the house of Israel,
united with the faithful from the house of Judah, the inward Jews of Romans 2, 28 through 29.
Identifying faithful Gentiles with the returning house of Israel obviously assigns much more
significance to Romans 9, 20 through 26, where after first declaring natural ancestry and an
insufficient criterion for covenant membership, 9, 6 through 13, he's talking about who the promises
are for and all that, but even goes to make the point just because you're a descendant,
doesn't mean you're one of them. It's the chosen, right? And defending God's justice
in election, who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Paul quotes Hosea's words to the northern
kingdom demonstrating that God is calling his elect. The house of Israel has intermingled,
intermarried among the nations, no longer having the distinction of being elect. Once a part of
God's elect nation, Ephraim has become not my people, indistinct from the non-chosen nations,
that is, they have become Gentiles. What does not my people mean if not Gentiles?
Hosea 8 verse 8 sums up the situation. Israel, the north, is swallowed up. They are now in the
nation's Gentiles, like a worthless vessel. Paul appears to be suddenly echoing this passage
when he defends God's choice in making some of the lump Israel into worthless vessels for dishonor,
leading to the inclusion of the Gentiles, citing Hosea's promise of the restoration of
not my people as proof, uncircumcised Gentiles with the not my people being restored to Israel
as promised in Hosea. So Paul takes the radical step of identifying faithful, that is to say,
as promised, Ephraim's seed is being restored from among the nations, being redeemed from
its cut-off Gentile state, becoming children of the living God once again. Moreover, in the process,
God has provided for the salvation of the Gentiles by scattering Ephraim among the nations,
only to be restored in saving Ephraim. God saves the nations. In saving the nations,
God saves Ephraim. Thus, the new covenant not only restores Israel, but also in the
unforeseen plan of God fulfills the promises to Abraham that all the nations would be blessed,
not through his seed, i.e. as outsiders, but by inclusion and incorporation in his seed,
Galatians 3-8. Paul insists that these faithful Gentiles are not to become Jews, that is Judah.
In order to become members of Israel, they have already become Israelites through the new covenant,
thus all persons should remain in the state in which they were called, 1 Corinthians 7, 17-20.
Before protesting that Paul would never have called Gentiles Israelites,
one should remember that the circumcision controversy makes sense, only if the debate is
over full Israelite status. If Gentiles were to be saved simply as Gentiles, i.e. as the fulfillment
of the nations flocking to Jerusalem at the Eschaton, circumcision, which marks a status
transition from Gentile to Israelite, would have been entirely unnecessary. Why would Gentiles
ever need to be circumcised to worship the God of Israel? And on what basis would they be circumcised
if not to become part of Israel? If uncircumcised Gentiles could already worship the Lord with
somewhat secure status in non-Christian Judaism, there is little reason to think that such a thing
would have been a problem in even the most conservative law-observant Christian circles.
Rather, the debate must have been centered on the question of whether Gentile converts
can acquire full Israelite status without circumcision, food laws, or any other visible
marker of the identification with Torah or traditional Jewish identity. For Paul, Gentile
converts are not saved as Gentiles, but actually become equal members of Israel alongside their
law-observant Jewish brothers. It is this assertion that was so unbearable for Paul's
opponents. Gentiles saved as Gentiles are no concern. Gentiles as Israel are a shocking
affront and a grave threat to traditional Israelite identity. The debate is therefore
fundamentally over status, specifically the status and identity of the people of Israel.
It is precisely at this point that Paul is simultaneously most continuous and discontinuous
with traditional Judaism. He continues to preach God's special election of Israel,
the lasting value of Israel's covenant, and the restoration and ultimate salvation of Israel.
But he extends this election to Gentiles without any requirement of circumcision, food laws,
or any other external markers of covenantal membership. An unacceptable move in the eyes
of his peers, both Jesus followers and those who were not. In this sense, Paul's gospel
could most accurately be called Messianic New Covenant Israeliteism. Not exactly Judaism,
but in no way something wholly other far from de-emphasizing the Torah and the prophets. Paul
sees the prophecies contained therein as being fulfilled in his own day and through his ministry.
Israel is indeed being restored from the nations through an internal transformation just as
the prophets foretold. The Gentiles now receiving the Spirit are the fulfillment of Jacob's prophecy.
They are Ephraim's seed. They are Israel restored through the New Covenant. God had planned all
along that Ephraim's seed would become the fullness of the nations, so that when Ephraim was restored,
it would result also in the redemption of the Gentiles in Abraham's seed. Paul's triumphant
conclusion, and thus all Israel will be saved, seizes his opponent's territory, claiming it
for the Pauline gospel. Yes, all Israel will be saved, he says, but all Israel is more than you
realize. Israel's redemption is not limited to the Jews alone. God has promised to restore all
Israel and Ephraim, that is, the fullness of the nations. Gentiles must be reincorporated into Israel
and reunited with his Jewish brothers. All Israel can be saved only through the
ingathering of the nations. The puzzling connection between the ingathering of the
fullness of the nations and the salvation of all Israel suddenly makes sense, since all
Israel must include Ephraim's seed. Romans 11, 25 through 27 is thus entirely coherent.
Verse 25, A hardening has happened to part of Israel. Paul starts from the original hardening
of the northern kingdom, which caused them to be exiled by the Assyrians and intermingled with
the nations. Judah's partial hardening then leads to the restoration of those, or these,
lost tribes, necessarily opening the door to the Gentiles, since Ephraim is no longer ethnically
distinct. The Gentiles are gathered in as the result of this two-fold hardening that has occurred
in both houses of Israel. Nonetheless, Paul insists that even those branches presently being cut off
for unfaithfulness can be grafted on again. The mercy being shown to the northern house
is the guarantor of mercy towards disobedient Jews. They can, Paul seems to hold more than a
little hope that they will be restored, and this ultimate reincorporation and reunification
are the greatest of all. Life from the dead, Romans 11, 15. Until the fullness of the nations comes in,
this is as we have already seen a double reference. It refers to the in-gathering of the Gentiles into
Israel, but in their new identity as the reconstituted Ephraim, the forgotten, uncultivated olive
branches that had long been cut off are now being grafted onto the olive tree of Israel. Paul is
simultaneously proclaiming the salvation of the Gentiles and the return of the northern kingdom
as the same event, verse 26, and thus all Israel will be saved, or all Israel will be saved,
since all Israel includes both houses of Israel and the northern house is distinct from the nations.
All Israel must include both Jews and Gentiles. There is a causal relation between the in-gathering
of the Gentiles and the salvation of all Israel, because the latter necessarily involves the restoration
of Ephraim's seed, which has become the fullness of the Gentiles. Just as it is written, the deliverer
will come from Zion. He will remove ungodliness from Jacob, and this is my covenant with them.
When I take away their sins, this is the mechanism of Israel's salvation, the new covenant.
All those who have the law written on their heart, Jew or Gentile, are Israelites, Romans chapter 2.
Paul follows with the reminder that even unbelieving Jews have in no way lost their elect status.
They remain God's elect in every sense that a faithful Gentile is, despite their opposition
to the gospel. God has not made a mistake. He has not turned back from his promises,
nor does he regret his choices. There is no cause for boasting, but only love and attitude of
brotherhood toward the fellow elect, along with hope of their ultimate reconciliation and participation
in the new covenant, leading to their salvation, 9-1-5. Unlike later patristic writers, Paul
does not advocate a primarily Gentile church which did not yet exist as the new or true Israel
replacing the Jews, nor is he teaching a third race perspective. On the contrary, the Ecclesia
comprised both Jews and Gentiles is the congregation of the Lord, Deuteronomy 23 verse 1.
In direct continuity with the ancient Israel, Gentiles coming into the body of Christ indeed
become members of Israel, but they are no way replacements. They are restorations and additions.
Jews remain Israel by nature. The ingrafting of Gentiles does not threaten or diminish their
Israelite status. Both Jews and Gentiles, however, can find themselves cut off from Israel
because of unfaithfulness. Though restoration is possible, even then Paul envisions the
expansion of Israel by restoration and addition not to transfer of Israelite status from one group
to another, even Gentile inclusion itself is in continuity with ancient Israel. Since Israel
has been ethnically intermingled among the nations requiring Gentile inclusion for Israelite
restoration. For Paul, salvation is always about God's faithfulness to his people Israel.
In Romans 11, 25-27 and Romans 9-11 as a whole, the apostle has turned the question of God's
rejection of Israel on its head by reminding the reader that all Israel is a larger entity
than just Jews. God has neither been unfaithful to Israel nor rejected as people. In fact,
God's plan goes far beyond saving only Judah but extends to the house of Israel as well.
All Israel will be saved, Paul insists, not just one part. Far from being rejected Israel,
or far from rejecting Israel, God has reached out and saved more of Israel than anyone could have
imagined. In fact, God desired to save all Israel so much that he is even incorporating the Gentiles
to do it. God's faithfulness to Israel is so great that he has provided to save all
even Gentiles in Israel. God has not moved to a new people but is gathering, restoring,
and reconciling even those who were thought to be irretrievably lost. Paul argues that
God's covenant keeping power extends beyond the grave, capable even of bringing life from
the dead. Romans 11 verse 15, a producing of producing Israelites from the Gentiles.
It is no wonder that Paul breaks off in praise at this point, expressing his wonder at the
hidden wisdom, the unsearchable and unfathomable plan of God. The mystery has been revealed,
and God's purposes are far deeper than anyone ever imagined. Even God's rejections prove salvific.
Now, this is all from Jason Staples, Dr. Staples' mouth, and I apologize for the errors and the
mess-ups there. I'm reading this from the script as well as directly from the horse's mouth.
I did skip over key sections of Staples' article, so everyone should definitely check out.
Suffice it to say, he doesn't draw the same conclusions as I owe. So, Jason D'Costa may
want to consider withdrawing his endorsement. Now, let's recap some of the points that Jason
D'Costa took away from his initial reading, everything that I just read above. Number one,
Dr. Staples allegedly believes that non-elect Gentiles are inside of the Salvation narrative,
along with gentilized Israelites of the Northern Tribes, that these were actually the paganized,
dispersed Israelites of the Northern Tribes in real history. Question mark. Dr. Staples
allegedly believes that actual non-Israelite Gentiles were added in alongside these gentilized
Northern Israelites, that this was a completely separate group of people. I think the cost of
summary strains credulity, having read what Dr. Staples actually wrote. What about these two separate
narratives that Staples supposedly invented? Were there actually Israelites being gathered?
And were these Israelites actually being gathered so that God could save other people alongside
Israel? I think those questions have been answered by Staples himself. Dr. Staples is not conflating
the term Gentile with ethnic Israelites at all. Dr. Staples simply holds the consensus view when
Paul refers to his audience as Gentiles, he means it, in the conventional sense. So Dr. Staples'
view simply does not conform to IO on this point. Full stop. And since D'Costa has admitted on several
occasions that he could be wrong about this, I'm sure he'll have no issue acknowledging that he
was. Moving forward, perhaps he could start to address some of Dr. Staples' actual arguments
rather than straw manning and poisoning the well, so to speak. I continue to encourage
all IO inherents of IO to join Dr. Ehrman's blog and ask him questions that pertain to IO.
The opportunity is there for you to seize. And I hope I helped give everyone a clearer
perspective moving forward. Perhaps he could start to address Dr. Staples' actual arguments. I think
that'll be important. And once Dr. Richard Carrier is able to wrap his head around all of this,
both the IO perspective and Dr. Staples' perspective, both their works, he'll be able to
offer an even more insight on the historical questions related to the lost tribes and the
early Christian communities Paul was writing to in his letters. I know that was a lot. I read
a lot, guys. I apologize. But I really do like Jason. I can listen to Jason D'Costa all day long.
He's well spoken. He articulates what he thinks very well. And I think we would hang out in person
just the kind of character that he is. He seems like he would be a really chill guy to hang out with.
And I just, I hope that covers some points. And I just want to re-emphasize one thing before we
close out here. What I mentioned earlier that, you know, he says that this could be fiction.
I see a huge struggle in the field of actual history. And these are just fictional writings.
I agree there's historical fiction. But are Paul's letters historical fiction?
Look, I'm not saying that they couldn't have fraud. You know, some of these could be written as
forged letters or whatever. Is Dr. Price right about some of these letters? Are we going to
argue that the seven authentic, as critical scholars believe, the seven are authentic of
the Pauline corporates? All this stuff, the dating of these texts play a role in full
preterism that has nothing to do with what we're talking about here. But my point is,
is the fictional and the historical seem to be something that both get tapped on.
And if something isn't written, and I'm not trying to say, well, if it's not written, we win.
No. How the hell can anyone decipher this position? It's supposed to be as clear as day.
But if we're not reading this book spelled out on the IO perspective in a manner in which
they're very clearly trying to make their case, you got to make a case for this.
People don't just read Greek and it can mean lost diaspora, Israelite, biologically out in the
nation. Okay. So it needs to be spelled out and it needs to be well articulated. And so that idea
that these could be, it's all fiction and therefore couldn't they write a real fiction, even if in
history there weren't actual Israelites out there. But in the same breath, still try to argue that
there were really lost Israelites using Maccabees and Josephus and stuff to make the point and
stables totally cuts through that like a hot knife through butter. There's a problem with that.
How come the same fiction couldn't include people that never really were
openly part of the narrative? It's a fiction. I mean, why can't that be what's going on?
So digest that chew on that. I expect obviously Jason DeCosta to do a response to this.
I'm not going to probably respond to that. I'm going to wait for the scholars to really come in
and deal with the position in full depth using historical sources, extra biblical material
like I've referenced a few extra biblical material and pseudopographical writings,
other books that aren't in our canon to make the point. But I definitely cannot wait for
Dr. Carrier and I cannot wait for Dr. Staples and I plan on getting Dr. Paula Fredrickson,
fingers crossed we can get her on the channel, others like Christine Hayes, maybe I can get some
of these other people who wrote on the Goy the Goyim talk about them and who they think Paul's
audience was and why all these things. But I don't want to directly necessarily engage IO. Once
these scholars come out, I'll let IO engage these scholars. And at that point, I'm going to plan on
trying to progressively move forward in the situation. Hopefully the things that these
scholars bring are somewhat edifying to the situation. And both sides learn something from
this and not just wrong. Let me throw my dung from my castle and say how you guys are all wrong.
No, argue your point. Got it. But take it to the scholar. I want to hear what they have to say.
I'm interested in seeing how you guys can, you know, pan up against them in their arguments
that they will be presenting. So we'll go from there. But definitely read Jason Staples article
for yourself to see. He's the closest thing I know of in the scholarly world who even comes
close to answering something similar to IO, but he's miles apart in many ways. So with that being
said, thanks for being patient and getting to the end of this video. Peace.
