Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of my favorite recordings when it comes to the topic of Islam.
I asked the question, is Islam Judaism, which we explore, but we go way beyond just that question
into the origins of Islam, Muhammad, Arabia, pre-Islamic Arabia, and Judaism and Christianity's
influence. It is just a magnificent interview you don't want to miss if you want to educate yourself
on understanding what's going on. We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I have Professor Reuven Firestone with me today. How are you?
I'm great, feeling good. How about yourself? I'm doing wonderful, trying to move my house right
now. I'm in the process of moving, so lots of work. But I came across your work a while back,
and I said, I would love to talk with him to learn about some of this stuff pertaining to Islam.
The question I brought today was, is Islam Judaism? Then I figured, from there, we can just go off
into any and each discussion that might be relevant to early Islam as it relates to the
monotheistic traditions and even the pre-Arabian traditions, how that might play a role. But before
we do, I wanted to ask, is it possible that you could tell my audience what your background is,
what your expertise is, things like that, what you've been working on,
maybe something you're currently working on, and then we can dive in.
Okay. Well, academically, I'm a trained rabbi, so I'm an ordained rabbi, and I don't practice
in that I don't have a synagogue congregation. I practice as an academic. I teach in a Jewish
seminary for rabbis, and I also teach in a big, a large university, secular private university
in Los Angeles. I have a PhD in Arabic and Islamic studies. I've lived in Egypt and other parts of
the Muslim world. I've also lived in Israel for many years, and I'm pretty familiar with both
traditions and the languages that are involved in the traditions, and I find them both fascinating
and beautiful and fun to study and to learn about, and very important to understand deeply.
Thank you. Thank you. So, simply put, you have a few books here.
Jihad, The Origin of Holy War in Islam, Who Are the Real Chosen People? Looks like you've co-authored
in a few of these as well. Trialogue, Jews, Christians and Muslims in Dialogue, Journeys in
Holy Lands, and Introductory to Islam for Jews. You've written quite a bit, and you've co-authored
and probably edited Children of Abraham, and Introduction to Judaism for Muslims. One of them
that really caught my eye is who are the real chosen people? Of course, that's going to like,
off the gate, curiosity gets you, right? And you go, oh my gosh, it's got to be one or the other,
right? But then again, you can go into the Hebrew Bible and find that actually there seems to be
a tradition for what seems to be the Ishmaelites as well, that they're favored in some sense.
But I'd be curious to see what you say. I have not read your work, so I'd like to know what you
think of that at some point. But is Islam Judaism? That's a good question, and it's a good question
to interrogate a little bit. I mean, why would someone ask the question in the first place?
I'm not, you know, casting aspersions on you for asking the question, but it's a question that would
be asked in a Western Christian context, right? So in fact, in the Middle Ages, several Christian
writers felt that Jews and Muslims were allies against Christianity, and that Judaism, Islam is
sort of a poor version of Judaism. Both of them are wrong because they don't accept Christ,
and as a Christ Messiah, as a Savior. Now, Islam does accept Jesus and refers to Jesus,
even in the Quran, as the Messiah, Messiah in Arabic, but doesn't accept Jesus as Son of God,
or certainly as that kind of a figure. So one could say, of course, Islam is not Judaism.
They have separate traditions, they have different scriptures, but they both revere the same God,
as does Christianity. In a way, one could say all the monotheistic traditions are one religion,
right? All accept the notion of a singular God, all pray to the same God. They just have
different traditions. I mean, how do we define a religion in the first place? I mean, is Catholicism
an evangelical Christianity, the same religion?
Not sure. What would you say? Yeah, that's a difficult one. I mean, they're miles apart in many
ways, and then they have a common core in some ways, and yeah, there's differences. You can look at
the monotheistic traditions like as a big tribe, and each tribe has its own clans, you know,
ethnic groups or clan groups make up tribes, and within the clans, they have their own extended
families, and within the extended families, they have their own nuclear family. So we're all related
in some way, and yet we all have our profound differences, and those differences are significant,
and sometimes they are very significant, and sometimes they're made in order to be significant.
They are emphasized in order to distinguish when, in fact, the three traditions have a lot in common.
So yeah. So, you know, and all that denominationalism that we see in Christianity,
where there are thousands and thousands of denominations of Christianity, we also see in
Judaism and in Islam as well. So yeah, I guess I could be a little bit risky and say, yeah,
it's the same religion. That is really nice. Right, I get it. Yeah. Okay, okay, I appreciate this.
Maybe we can probe into a little more. Specifically, I think I'm going to have you
obviously explain the Jewish side of things, especially as we're approaching the time period
in which the Quran comes up. I take an early approach. I think the Quran is early, at least
from Uthman, you know, but I would imagine the tradition goes back to the Prophet. I have no
problem with that. I'm going to call him the Prophet. I'm just going to say Muhammad, the Prophet,
because we know who we're talking about here. But also, I want to know, like, when I asked that
question, you talked about how there's Christians who are saying they come together and they're
pretty much one unit against us. Are there scholarly reasons to think that, you know,
asking that question is relevant? Does the Quran seem to be aware of the Talmud,
the Mishnah? You know, does it know that it's a Seftah? Is it aware of Jewish tradition?
And is there any way we can show that?
Western scholars for centuries have tried to show that the Quran is a derivative text that comes
out of, if they were Christian scholars, out of Christian tradition, but distorted, they didn't
quite get it right. And Jewish scholars would say the same thing about Judaism. So, yeah, there has
clearly been a recognized association by Western scholars between the Quran, let's say, let's just
focus on the Quran for a moment, between the Quran and pre-existent monotheist traditions, right?
So, those early studies were profoundly influenced by the kind of worldview that assumed that we're
right and everybody else is wrong. So, everybody had that worldview, Jews, Christians, Muslims,
everyone. Now, some of us at least are a little bit more open to the possibility that maybe we
don't have it all right, maybe we can learn from some other people as well. So, yeah, that's been
recognized. Now, what I just said was that Westerners have done this, but Muslims have done it as well.
From the very earliest period, even the Quran itself is cognizant of pre-existing
monotheist scriptural traditions. It refers to it. It calls itself a book like the books that
existed previously to it. So, the Quran itself recognizes the existence of earlier expressions
of monotheist scripture. That's interesting. But it doesn't ever cite earlier scripture,
as the New Testament, for example, does. So, the New Testament often will recite,
will cite Old Testament material in order to support its own argument and buttress.
The Quran never does that. So, it's been a kind of a game for Christian and Jewish scholars. And
when I say Christian and Jewish scholars, I mean Christian and Jewish scholars who are believers
within their tradition. They're also Christian and Jewish scholars who are taking an agnostic,
non-religious approach to the study of Islam. But the real kind of believers who were trying to
buttress their own faith were trying to find the sources of the Quran in their own traditions.
And although some have made arguments for it, they have not really succeeded in doing so.
And for me, I'm, you know, I was a Christian. I'm no longer in any particular faith practice,
but I appreciate and love learning about the history and the stories and where they come from
and a source critic and all that kind of stuff. So, I definitely see the New Testament's doing
these things. Often, when we get into these discussions, many, there's so many polemics out
there. It's like, Apologist this versus Apologist that. And I'm not interested in that. I'm interested
in academic pursuit and wanting to know source material, figuring out recently I interviewed
other academics on, you know, where does this tradition come from? And it seems like there's
definitely a tradition with this Alexandria, Alexander the Great, and it finds its way in the
Quran. It's significant in this time. It's apocalyptic even. There's a lot of that that I love learning.
So, today, you're not getting a host who's a Christian trying to find his Christian traditions
or a Jew who might be trying to find Judaism and like houses just the Talmud or or a pagan who's
like, where's my pagan roots? Find me my pre-Arabian pagan connections. I want to kind of touch it all
if possible. Can you tell us about the origins of Islam and how maybe these traditions formulate
your thinking pertaining to its origins? Islam emerged. It's really consensus among
critical scholars. There's no real significant different perspective than the one that I'm
about to say. And that is that Islam emerged in the Arabian Peninsula in the 7th century,
late 6th maybe, but 7th century, really 7th century. There were precursors, that is.
And Muhammad was a prophet of Islam. He understood that he received a revelation from God,
whether any prophet receives a real revelation or is hallucinating or making it up. One never
knows. I mean, that's why we call religions faith traditions. You can't prove these things. It's a
faith position. And this revelation of the Qur'an that was pretty quickly recorded.
It existed in oral form for a while until it was recorded, just like the New Testament and the
Hebrew Bible. They existed both of them in oral form for a period of time until they were recorded
in writing. And that's what makes them scripture, right? They're scripted out. It was recorded
probably quite soon after the death of Muhammad. I would also refer to him as the prophet,
as I said before. He's not necessarily my prophet, but he's a prophet.
Yeah, like what's wrong with that? Yeah, I mean, I don't get the reluctance, but I think it's probably
because of the polemics. Anyway, sorry. We can talk about polemics for a long time too, because
polemics is an interesting scenario that I find fascinating. I'm working on quite a bit these
days. But yeah, let's not go there right now. We can do that sometime. And so the Qur'an really
is associated with Arabia, with central Hejazie area of Arabia, with a prophet who was called Muhammad,
whether that was his original name or not. Nobody really knows. I mean, the assumption is no, because
Muhammad simply means the beloved one. So I mean, you could have had, there's some other
possible names as well. But that's not important for our discussion. And that Qur'an has a lot of
parallels with the New Testament and the Hebrew Bible and the Talmud and rabbinic literature
and Syriac Christian literature that is not biblical. It has a lot of associations with all
of these texts. Now, does that make it derivative? Meaning, you know, the derivative is a negative
term. It kind of has the association with, it's not original. It's not unique. It's just borrowed
from someone else. But all of our scriptural texts are derivative, because all scripture
is an anthology. Every scripture is an anthology. It's an anthology of works, of stories,
of traditions, of laws, of perspectives, of homilies, and it's all edited together. And that
material comes from a lot of different locations, a lot of different places. So the Hebrew Bible,
the earliest, right? The Hebrew Bible is sort of the source, the core, and the New Testament
sort of emerges out of that tradition and adds to it. And the Qur'an emerges out of that tradition
and the New Testament and pre-Islamic Arabian traditions and then adds to it. So the original
would be the Hebrew Bible, right? But no, that's not true. The Hebrew Bible is derived from pre-existing
traditions and stories and laws and theologies and prayer practices that existed in the ancient
Near Eastern world for centuries and centuries before it. So if we're going to say about the
Qur'an, it's derivative or it doesn't have much to add, because it has parallels with
pre-existing scriptures, then you have to say that about all three. This is, oh, you're awesome,
by the way. I really, really appreciate you pointing this out, because this is one of the
masterpieces I bring to the table, I think, in MythVision, is I'm not here to destroy people's
faith. I think people feel that way, because I'm very historical. My methodology is historical,
critical method. So I'm kind of trying to take a non-faith approach to ascertain what may have
happened and how to understand what are the sources, how do you think this compiled, etc., etc.
This is literally up your alley as a scholar, so you know what I'm talking about. That doesn't
take away, if you want to believe at the end of the day, go for it. But what I find is I'm really
going at trying to get people to mature, and it's these radical, fundamentalist approaches.
I am specifically always jabbing at Christian fundamentalists, because I was one, and I want
people to mature and develop and be, I think, knowing what you just said, and if we came to
accept that, we would have way more unity, because we'd be able to go, you know what, we are one
family. I think my tradition is a little better, and I think it's true, but I'm not going to go
over here and attack you and call you names and belittle you, and vice versa. I feel like we would
get along better if we knew what you just said and actually saw that evidence and accepted it.
So I just want to say thank you, and I appreciate that statement so much. I can't tell you how much
I appreciate that statement. So what's next? So what's next, I think, first of all, I love how
you brought that up. It made me think of Mesopotamian polemics, probably, what's going on in Genesis,
maybe a reactionary to what's going on there, etc. There's all these ideas that came up.
But if we're going to focus on Islam, you said something about precursors, and just to clear up
what I think you mean, correct me if I'm wrong, is before Muhammad comes on the scene,
it's just like Jesus. Let's use Jesus as an analogy in case our Muslim audience is watching,
and they're like, oh, you're talking about my prophet, you know, so you got to be careful.
Before Jesus shows up on the scene in the New Testament or in the first century, there are other
Essene apocalyptic figures that believe that the kingdom of God is coming soon, and they're
preaching a message, whether it be a violent one, whether it be a activist, nonviolent message,
and they're trying to convey that God is going to come in soon apocalyptic message.
When we look at the precursors of Muhammad that are coming in, what is it that we're seeing? What
are they claiming? And then, of course, Muhammad capitalizes, just like Jesus becomes the capitalized
message of the Jewish apocalyptic figures we find, which created a whole new religion.
Muhammad seems to, in a sense, also be something of a master when it comes to
having a follower following believe what he's saying. What are these precursors teaching,
and who were they? Do you know their names off the top of your head? What were they trying to say,
things like that? Yeah, it's a little bit different, I think, between Jesus and the
pre-existing Jewish tradition and Muhammad and the pre-existing Christian and Jewish tradition.
So, Jesus was, I mean, now it's quite clear people are admitting it. People didn't want to admit it
a generation or two ago. Jesus was a full-blown, 100% true, blue Jew, right?
Right. He practiced Judaism, he believed in Judaism, and he was a pretty learned guy,
maybe a real scholar of Judaism, within that framework in those days. We don't have to talk
about it, except what's important right now is to understand that Christianity emerges out of a
tradition that already existed, and that is Judaism. Jesus didn't know he was a Christian,
he thought he was a Jew. Paul didn't know he was a Christian, he thought he was a Jew, right?
So, the identity of this movement that moved into a separate, different religion from Judaism
was something that occurred later. There were other Jewish movements as well at the time. Okay,
and so it's totally natural for Jesus and the apostles and the tellers of the gospel,
right, to use the Hebrew Bible, what they refer to today as the Old Testament,
in order to kind of buttress and understand and support the sense of the New Testament,
by actually citing proof texts, actually citing the text itself. Now, Islam is not that way.
Muhammad wasn't a Jew, he wasn't a Christian, despite the fact that there were
early traditions, that polemical traditions, as you noted, that said, yeah, Muhammad's not a
real prophet, he was a heretical Christian, or he was informed by a heretical Christian,
or Jews gave him all his lines, and he's not original. In fact, what we understand at this
point is that Islam emerges an independent, separate religion, but influenced by Judaism
and Christianity, because Judaism and Christianity existed in Arabia at the time. There were Jewish
communities there, there were Christian communities there, and they had their traditions, they had
their texts, they had their holy people, and the indigenous Arabian people knew about Jewish
traditions and Christian traditions, because it was floating in the air. When we go into,
I don't know, we buy something online, we have no conversation with the people that
we're buying our product from, we do our clicks and whatever, and we get the product.
Five years ago, maybe two years ago, 10 years ago for sure, you'd walk into a department store,
and you wouldn't really talk to anybody, you look at what's there, you take the merchandise,
you bring it up to the desk, you give them your credit card or whatever, and you pay for it,
and you go home. That's not the way it worked in the ancient world. You sat down with the
proprietor, you had a discussion, you might drink some tea, you might learn about them,
and they learn about you, you develop a relationship, and you hope that the business will continue
on in the future. It's not just a transactional relationship, it's a human transactional
relationship as well. People learn stories, oh, where are you from? Oh, you're speaking with an
accent, oh, that's really interesting, is this your tradition? People learn about other traditions,
and they learn about their prophets, and they learn about their saints, and they learn about
their rabbis, and in the course of that, that knowledge infiltrates the local culture, infuses
the local culture, and the local culture absorbs it, and it becomes part of the local culture.
But it's not in the same form that it existed in the earlier form of that expression. For example,
Judaism as practiced in Arabia was, we think, not necessarily the same kind of Judaism that was
practiced in the land of Israel, we will say, in the ancient world, or in Babylonia,
because every location in which a religion exists, it starts to absorb local culture,
and it infuses itself with local culture, fuses with local culture, and so it changes. So the kind
of stories and the traditions and the laws and the assumptions that were associated with Jews
and Christians in Arabia ended up being different than they were in the old country, I guess you
could say. So what the pre-Muslim Arabs learned or had as part of their culture, which was monotheistic,
Jesus was there, Moses was a part of that culture, because the Quran itself refers to these figures
as if its listeners already knew the story. Exactly. Right? So the stories were all out there,
but they weren't necessarily exactly in the same form that they are in the Hebrew Bible or the New
Testament. I would like to tell people who are watching this, like if you've ever gone anywhere
in the world or you watch videos of people in certain locations, you'll notice that Jews
look ethnically different in different places, and you got to ask yourself, why? Well, they come
become culturally and they mix with where they're located. And then like you said,
those traditions impact, even to this day, you find the same thing within the tradition of not
only Judaism, but other religions, Christianity, you name it, you find it. This is a great point
you bring up. So here in Arabia, we have forms of Judaism and Christianity. And so would we place,
maybe this is like the million dollar question that gets debated, would we really place Muhammad
as one of these pagan Arabian pagans who, because I know the traditions have it that like his father
was going to like promised his son as a sacrifice, but then like offered, I can't remember how many
cattle or whatever it was, and there's like an arrow or something to do with this like
superstition in the pagan tradition. Most scholars I've talked to like Sean Anthony and others,
they think that that might be mythology, because you know, all these wonderful stories of men who've
become something mighty, they always put stories to their births or their lives. Where do we place
Muhammad before we would say he has his calling? So these, first of all, just back to the prior
just for a second to kind of make sure that we are clear about it. The so-called Jewish or Christian
traditions that fused into Arabian society are no longer Jewish or Christian. They become Arabian.
So and it's an oral culture with very little writing. The Jews and the Christians also weren't
writing much down there in that area. And Arabic had no orthographic system to actually record it.
I mean, or it had very extremely primitive, it was just developing at the time. So that those
traditions were oral in form. And you know, for most of human history, our religions and our
traditions were oral. They weren't written down because we only invented writing about 3,000 years
ago. So the traditions like of sacrificing a son or nearly sacrificing a son or Messiah traditions
and prophetic traditions, these were all Arabian. That is, they may have derived or fused with
Jewish and Christian traditions, but they were indigenous Arabian at the time. So when Muhammad
is born, he's born into this Arabian culture. And that Arabian culture is very sophisticated.
The Muslims tend to portray that culture as the Jahlia, as the time of deep and terrible
ignorance of darkness until light came to the world with the prophecies that Muhammad received.
But the truth of the matter is that it was a very sophisticated literary culture,
but oral literary culture with exquisite poetry and stories and traditions. So there was it was
all there. When Muhammad grew up in that tradition, he learned those traditions. He knew them.
And when he received a revelation, that revelation came to him and it was couched in the culture
in which Muhammad lived. So the lessons that God would give to Muhammad were couched in the
traditions that were relevant and were known to the people. And that included Christian motifs,
Jewish motifs that were no longer Christian or Jewish. They were now Arabian motifs.
You are making so much sense right now, by the way. I just want to say this has been the clearest
I've heard it defined in the way that you're expressing this, because that would make sense of
a lot of things. It's not fundamentalist. I hope outsiders learning about Islam today aren't,
and I'm not speaking to the Muslims, but to those maybe Muslims as well, that the tradition has it
that, well, he learned all this from Gabriel, didn't learn this from anywhere else. And that's a
radical fundamentalist approach that I don't even think Muslim scholars thought that about their
own prophet early on. It's like we become radicalized and those who are attacking or trying to argue
against it, they're using that fundamentalist approach as well. And it's like, no, no, no, no,
this is much more complex, nuanced and natural. There seems an evolution that can explain how
this comes to be. So I want to say thank you. You're welcome. Now that we have that figured out,
he's couched in it, he's raised in it, do we think that Muhammad thought of himself
as an actual prophet? It's like the same question we could pause it for the historical Jesus.
Did Jesus really think he might be the Davidic Messiah descendant? He might be the king?
Did he think of himself that way? Was he having what do we call that visions of grandeur?
And or was he made that by his followers? It's a question I wanted to know your thoughts on.
Right. The Quran doesn't really weigh in on this. The Quran doesn't really refer to Muhammad
only rarely. It refers hundreds of times to Moses, at least 100 times to Abraham,
lots of other prophets, but only refers to Muhammad. It is certainly by name only maybe
four or five times. That's it. So you can't learn about how he felt from the Quran itself,
but you can from the tradition. And the tradition is, we often call it the hadith. Hadith is the
record of what Muhammad said and did in his lifetime. And it's a kind of sacred literature
because he is a sacred person. And that has a lot of authority in Islam. And there are a lot of
references in the hadith to how Muhammad came about receiving these revelations, how they came to him,
what he looked like when a revelation would be received by him because there were witnesses
who witnessed it. And as a cold, cruel academic historian, you might say, well, we have to
have some skepticism about this as to whether this really happened or not. But we do have images
and views. And according to those images and views that are written in that tradition,
some of which probably has a certain level of authenticity, certainly Muhammad believed he
was a prophet and he had good reason to believe he was a prophet. He believed that he was receiving
revelations from God through the angel Gabriel. Now, whether he was or not, as I said earlier,
you can never know. It's impossible to know. But you can, and some prophets, even biblical
prophets said, you know, I'm not a prophet. I'm not a prophet. I'm not the son of a prophet.
But he was a prophet. And some people wanted to deny being a prophet, perhaps because it was a
dangerous profession. People didn't really like prophets, especially kings and people in power.
And the people in power in Mecca didn't like Muhammad. And that caused him a lot of
sorrows, we would say, in Jewish life, a lot of trouble. That's a Yiddish word, a lot of difficulty
in his life. And so, yeah, I think he was, he certainly believed that he was a prophet. And
there's no no doubt about that. In Hadith literature, I've been curious because people
like Patricia Crone, I wish she was still alive. I had an interviewer, of course, and others like
Robert G. Hoyland and others who are very cautious using that skeptical historical method,
because there's conflicting contradictory accounts and they always have like a chain of command
they think goes right back and stuff like that. And can we really trust what is being said even
in those? There's a lot of question marks. But are they are scholars approaching this
like we do Jesus studies on the sayings of Jesus and seeing things and going,
Dad, I wouldn't make that up about the guy. That's that's something that you saw that later
people were embarrassed and recognizing like the gospel accounts build on this tradition,
where Jesus is angry and mark, he spits in the mud, it's dirty, his form of trying to heal.
He's baptized by a superior figure named John the Baptist for the remission of sins. Did this
guy need his sins cleanse, etc, etc. And they want to change that. And it's not like the argument
of embarrassment from contemporary anachronisms like we like to do, we can tell that they themselves
were embarrassed by it. So we don't have to create is this an argument of embarrassment,
the fact that the authors themselves were changing these things. Using that as a model,
are we doing that with the Hadith? Yeah, there's there are some people who work on that as well.
Yeah, they use that same kind of methodology that's applied to Jesus. Interestingly enough,
you meaning the audience in general may not be aware that Muslims were also quite cognizant
that there were faked Hadiths. The primary source for living out God's will in Islam
is God's revelation. Well, the primary source for living out God's will in any of the
monotheistic traditions is God. So God is the apex on the pyramid. So the high point is God,
but you can't get to God, because God is not accessible unless you happen to be a prophet.
Or you can pray and maybe hope that maybe you're getting some kind of a response,
but you can't be absolutely certain about it. So how do you know what God wants you to do as a
believer? Well, you find it in Scripture, because Scripture is what God produced, God revealed
Scripture. So Scripture is the at the first level in that pyramid. Then, but Scripture ends,
right? Revelation ceases. It always has to happen. Revelation is canonized into Scripture,
and you've got what's in Scripture and what's out of Scripture. And what is not considered
Scripture cannot be holy. It can't be holy at the same level of Scripture. So, so religions,
that is religious authorities and powers, once Scripture is canonized, there can't be any more
new prophets, new prophecy, that's over. But then, how do you know what God wants you to do if God
is no longer revealing to you and you ask questions and God is not answering those questions? So how
do you get that information? Well, all three in the monotheistic religions have an answer to that.
There's two answers, actually. There are two. One is interpretation of Scripture. This is what
Scripture actually means. It might say this, but it is insinuating or alluding to or suggesting
the following. So we have a long scriptural interpretive tradition in Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam. But we also have what can be called tradition. So what's tradition? Well, God gave
Jews say God gave the revelation of Mount Sinai. It was all written down. It's in the Torah.
It's over, right? But then that was eventually canonized and there's no more revelation. So how
do you know what to do? Well, Moses was up on the mountain for 40 days and 40 nights when he
received the revelations. And what was he doing? I mean, was he was in sightseeing? Well, according
to Jewish tradition, he was learning from God. God was teaching him and that's the oral Torah.
So when Muhammad came down from the mountain and there was a Scripture and it was eventually
all written down, that was the written tradition, but not the oral tradition. So Muhammad told his
disciple, Joshua. Joshua told the elders of the community. The elders of the community.
Are you mean Moses? Moses, I'm sorry. No, no problem. We're talking about
Muhammad. So yeah, so Moses tells Joshua, Joshua tells the elders, the elders tell the tribal leaders
and it gets passed down and eventually it's written down in the Talmud and that's tradition.
Now, that's a thousand years later that it's written down and or almost, let's say. So that is
an extension. So how do we learn from tradition? Well, we also have the apostolic tradition in
the Christian world. Jesus taught the apostles. The apostles taught their students. Their students
and followers taught theirs and it goes down through the church and that's especially important in
the Catholic Church. But it supplements Scripture. So you can learn more. You can develop. You can
change. You can change the religious tradition. Well, the same thing happened in Islam.
In addition to the Quran, there was what Muhammad, the prophet, the par excellence said and did in
his life. We call this hagiography or hagiography. This is a kind of sacred text of a saint.
And what the saint does and says is sacred and that was recorded. In fact, the tradition in
Islam is that God prevented Muhammad from being in error. So what he said and what he did should
be emulated. So from that, we then learn more information about how Islam can move along.
But because now I just gave you a very long story, right, the punchline to the story is
what Muhammad said and did is recorded by witnesses and the witnesses
passed that information down to their disciples or their friends or their children over some
generations before it was finally written down and codified into a kind of strict text that says
what what he really said and did in all that period of time. There's room for error or forgery
and and the early Muslims knew that people were forging these traditions in order to buttress
their own positions on things on how to pray, their theology and what have you. So what I'm
trying to say is that in Islam, from the very get go, there was an assumption that we have to be
critical in our understanding of the tradition. And that's interesting because we in the West
tend to think that Muslims are not so critical. They just sort of accept everything and they
don't think critically. But that's really not the case at all. This is a really interesting
description in the way that you painted this. Like I said, I'm learning a lot even in this
short amount of time here on how to view these things. One of the hot debated topics that people
get into you mentioned, we need to emulate the Prophet. And they always bring up when they're
trying to argue against Islam that Muhammad married a nine year old or consented the relationship
at nine. We have really early hadith, it seems, where serious figures say she was nine. But I've
also heard some Muslims say in this hagiography that they there's arguments to be made by some
maybe later that she's 19 or try to make the date older. And for me, being someone who's
more of a naturalist in my approach of taking that historical method, I'm thinking of these
traditions would change in light of how our moral compass about certain situations might be. I'm
not here to put judgment calls on someone who's in Arabia at a time 1400 years ago, where every
kingdom is cut in the throat of the other kingdom and saying, Oh, he's a warlord. What a now if
you're emulating that in a time when we should try to emulate peace and not be at war, because of an
ideology difference, then there's a problem. And I'd hope that that hagiography or tradition
allows that. And I think it does. I think there are many people who go, Listen, there's a tough time
that they were in, we're not in that, we don't need to live like that, we don't need to do that.
So I'm asking, you know, a lot of these people are skeptics against Islam.
And I'm a skeptic, but I try to be fair. Is there room in the tradition, the hagiography,
for emulating good moral practices? And can that hagiography change with modern contemporary
ethics? Because we're changing, time is changing. Like, I don't know if this would ever happen,
but we know there are churches, for example, have female pastors, like that probably bucks against
a lot of tradition and a lot of the teachings in both Judaism and Islam.
You get my question, the gist of trying to, will it change? Can it change? Or are we stuck?
Well, so, you know, there are female rabbis as well. That's, I forgot to mention that.
So the female rabbis in all of our traditions, even in orthodoxy, wow, not all of orthodoxy,
only a small amount now, but it's happening. So yes, these things change. In Islam, there are
female prayer leaders who have even prayed and led mixed groups. That's very controversial in the
Muslim world, but it's happening. And there are some congregations that are mixed. And so this
is all happening. So that in a way is an answer to your question. And that is that religions
have always evolved in relation to the cultural mores of the times, always.
Sometimes they've led the charge. Sometimes they've really put on the brakes as much as possible on
certain issues. That's just the way it is. It's a little bit like, well, we won't go there. I was
going to go into interpretive approaches to the Constitution, but we won't go there because
that's not exactly a religion, I guess one could say. But there is the interpretation of text.
And like, I remember reading a book, all my books are shipped right now by Catelle Berthelot. She
wrote a book called Jews and the Roman Rivals. And her specific thesis in the book is about
how much impact did pagan Rome before it became Christian impact Jews? And I thought,
I've never thought about that question. I know that Jews and Christians really,
there's a problem. I mean, anti-Jewish, anti-Semitic tendencies really stemmed quick
in early Christianity in the church fathers. But before that, I wanted to know what did
pagan Rome's impact play? And she writes about this. And then she also talks about,
you know, we see Paul talk about adoption. Here's a Jew using Roman adoption
to go to his Gentile audience, of course, and he's using their concepts to try and grab them.
I would do the same thing if I wanted to get the attention of people I'm talking to.
They got to relate to something, right? But in the early rabbi literature,
she has the references. She talks about how a convert to Judaism comes in. And the person
asks the rabbi, can they say the prayer of Deuteronomy 25, the God of our fathers?
And the rabbi says, no, they cannot say that prayer because Abraham is not their father.
They can say the God of your fathers. But then another rabbi came in. I love this about the
rabbis. They're fun. And he goes, have you not read the scriptures? God says his name would be
changed to Abraham for he would be the father of many Goyim. And the word Goyim, obviously in
the context that they live, is non-Israelite, non-Jew. So he understood it as like, no, Abraham
would be their father too. So yes, they can say the prayer. And it's like, hold on, what happened?
You just went over the genealogy stuff for a moment there and just went straight to something else.
And I wonder if that's happening today within Islam, because a lot of people think it's
radical. It cannot change. Their prophet was a warlord and they're following suit
in such a negative light. Can you shed some light on this and what you find that's going on?
Yeah, that's a very complicated subject because a lot of the so-called change,
Islam has always been changing and it's always been evolving in the times. And there've always
been different schools of thought about what should happen or what shouldn't happen. So there's
currently a big, there always has been, I think probably from the early period, there's been
a lot, especially because of the rise of the kind of radical militant jihadi Muslims.
There's a controversy over the so-called Sufi views, the Sufi practices. Is this what Muhammad
did? Is this what he didn't do? And people will cite different traditions to say, yeah, Muhammad
was, did meditate and did engage in night prayers and the kinds of superrogatory prayers that are
very popular among Sufis. And others will say, yes, but that was not what we should be doing.
That's not what he really did. And there are all kinds of different views on that. So Islam has
always been changing and it's always been evolving. And when you, you know, the problem of cherry
picking, this is the term that's used by those who say you're establishing your position based on
only certain verses from scripture and you're ignoring the counter verses, you know,
that, that happens in all of our traditions as well, right? It always happens. I mean that, right,
scripture, I say to my students, religion never says anything about anything. Religion always says
many things about anything. It doesn't say anything. It says many things. So there are vectors of
thinking in all of our traditions. You can choose militant vectors or you can choose pacifist vectors
or quietist vectors. You can find support for militancy in our traditions and you can find
support for quietism or even pacifism in our traditions. That's just the way religions are.
You can also find support for reaching out to the world. You know, you can deny your own community
because, because it's so important that the world will benefit and we're willing to sacrifice
our own selves on behalf of the world. And then there are vectors within our tradition that take
the opposite position. No, we need to protect our community. The world is, is, is dangerous
and is trying to hurt us and we need to protect ourselves. We find that in Judaism, Christianity
and in Islam. So when, when the portrayal of Islam in the Western tradition, and I'm speaking
as a Westerner, although I'm a Jewish Westerner, so some people would say, yeah, you're not so much
of a Westerner. The portrayal is, is negative because we have embedded in our culture and society
anti Islamic rhetoric that has happened from very early on. And so it's natural for us to kind of
think in, in that way because it's part of our culture, our history, our literature and even
our music. How do we change that? I mean, I feel like we're doing that right now with educating
people and teaching them the simplicity of how these traditions are. Maybe it's not so simple,
but I'm making it, we're making it simple here for people to grasp. All of us are humans. We all
are, we all, if we really sat down and understood each other, I feel like we would love each other
more. I think we'd appreciate each other more. There wouldn't be so much anti Jewish, anti,
anti Muslim, anti Christian, whatever. I mean, I just, how do you think we handle this? What can
we do in the West without making the West feel like, well, if I say that, I'm practically saying,
Prophet Muhammad, Prophet Muhammad, you know, like, you're not, how do we tell them that you
don't have to venerate and say, peace be upon somebody in order to respect somebody's tradition
enough to know that I can trust and not, not think everyone's going to blow themselves up or
something like that in the West, because that's what we've been living with for 20, 30 years.
Yeah, I think part of it is a sort of combination of fear and, and arrogance.
They're very closely related to one another, I think, actually, that we, we, we fear things we
don't know. We fear communities we don't know. And we tend to other them. I mean, that's just
what we do. That's probably normally even go there, but it's probably a survival
trait that was probably inbred to us for, you know, hundreds of thousands of years as human beings.
You can, you can trust the people that look like you, that are near you, that are your family,
that sound like you, that smell like you, right? And the further away from you, the less you can
trust them. They might want your cave or your children for slaves or, you know, your crops. So,
so that's something that we have to really work against in our daily lives, just seeing people
on the street who look different from us. Because there's, is that, that tendency to feel anxious
about people who are different. So there's, there's that piece of it. I think also, when we really
accept the fact that humans are really all alike, that there is no racial differentiation
with regard to, I don't know, intelligence or artistic ability or spirituality. And then we're
willing to give more credibility to people who might have a different worldview or a different
way of life. I can say that, you know, I've learned so much from my Muslim and Christian and frankly
pagan friends and colleagues about spirituality that I, I didn't learn from my own tradition
that I have to give a lot of credit to these other perspectives as well. And so this is one of the
reasons why I like engaging in, I guess you would call it interreligious dialogue, because,
because it makes me feel good. I learn a lot of new things. And I'm actually not interested
only in what we have in common. We have so much in common. I'm also interested in how we differ.
I think that's a beautiful as well. And, you know, there's this, this old cliche,
there are different paths to the mountain top, right? We all have our own paths to the mountain
top, but it really fits. I mean, it's really true. So I just think just to kind of mellow
out a little bit and not feel quite so threatened by people who are different. Yes, there are
problems in the world. There's no question about it. There is violence in the world. There are
very violent Muslims. They're also very violent Jews, very violent Christians,
very violent nationalist Christians, yeah, that are going on right now. Actually,
they're feeling threatened. They're fearing. I think ignorance is the stem as to when you
actually go to talk to that person. In fact, there's a video recently, I appreciate this.
So I learned from all these people like you. And even though I don't ontologically draw the
conclusion, there's wisdom, practical human wisdom that, you know, a Christian might call it that
spiritual Derek and I might call it practical, human, natural. And we're saying that we're
actually meaning and saying the same stuff, but really maybe calling it something different. And
they attribute it to something different where I might attribute it to just the mind or our
communication as humans. Either way, I feel like we're trying to do the same thing. It's like
the six wise men of Hindustan who went to touch the elephant and they were blind,
and they're all describing it, but they're all talking about something the same. I think even
those like me who are skeptics who aren't believers still should try to find that Bridget
gap. So one of the things I was going to say is like Darren Brown, he's a magician, a mentalist.
He has like a TV show. He's an Englishman. He had this radical, you know, I guess you'd say like
a good old boy from the South and Florida who was like, they had interviews with them before the show.
He's doing all this to like really teach us view or something about humans. And he's like,
man, those Mexicans coming across that border, you know, they need to stay away, yada, yada, yada.
And like it's just really hardcore ideology, political ideology that's been spreading. And
finally during the show, I'm skipping a lot. I'll link it in the description for anybody who wants
to watch it. He finally gets to sit in front and he's told to stare eye to eye, don't take your
eyes off, look at him in the eyes and stare at this other human being who's sitting right across from
you. And it is so I got goosebumps and actually started tearing up when I saw it because the
man started to cry a couple of minutes in and he started to cry and he goes, can I hug you?
And he went over and he hugged him and he's like, it's okay, you know, I love you. Like
it was the most, you want to talk about spiritual? I mean, I almost want to call it that. It's like
it was so groundbreaking and this man was willing to sacrifice himself even though it was all a
plot. He thought he got shot. It was all planned. He had no clue, but he defended these Mexicans
who were being chased by like what looked like a white supremacist biker gang. And he got shot
for them. And it was like teaching us a huge lesson about humanity. So I love what you've
said today. I hope it betters what we learn and take away and how we can try to reach across
those traditions and boundaries and try to understand each other better and not hate as much.
Yeah. This show literally took its own ride. We literally went, I told you, wherever we're
going to go, we can go. Well, you're interviewing some very interesting people I've seen in your
prior interviews and you refer to their books and all. And I hope you're writing a book about
your experience. I think this would be a bestseller. I would like to, I will plan on it. It's not
only that, I think it also be my life because my life plays a role into this. And I think the
education I've gotten and the learning, I've been tugged back and forth, but I have to also realize,
look, if I was born in a Muslim country, I would be a Muslim. I would be adamant that Prophet Muhammad
is the one or, you know, somewhere else. I'd be born. I'd probably be a Buddhist in Indonesia or
wherever. And I think that understanding each other will help us. So yeah, I would love to
write a book. But speaking of you, since you're the special guest, I want to talk about your books
just for a second as we're coming out of here because you have blown my mind. I legit want to
educate more in your books here. So Jihad, the origin of holy war in Islam. This is a hot button
issue. Very hot. I've heard that Jihad can mean multiple things as we talked about interpretation.
But what is this book about? Is it going to tell us what Jihad was understood by Muslims to mean?
And do you think that this is getting to a point, do you think Jihad took on a new
interpretation over time when they were in peaceful moments? What are your thoughts of Jihad?
Yeah, that's a complicated question. Jihad, of course, doesn't mean war at all. It means
striving. It means struggling very hard to do something. And the idiom in the Qur'an, the
kind of phrase in the Qur'an is Jihad fi sabili la, is struggling in the path of God,
working, doing that struggle in the path of God. So there are other words in the Qur'an that refer
to fighting. Qital is one. So the Jihad doesn't really mean fighting. It doesn't really mean
war. But it means striving in the path of God can be to support the community. And if the
community is under threat, it can mean fighting. That seems to be the purpose in the Qur'an,
not the only purpose, but one meaning of the sense of Jihad. So that includes fighting for the
community under pressure. That because Jihad has a kind of spiritual, religious tone to it,
of struggle in the path of God, that is for God's good, that's the term that became applied
to fighting for Islam. And later, Islam did not start out as a, I guess you could call it a,
what do you call it? The word is in my mind. It's okay. I do it all the time.
When you have an imperial tradition, right? It didn't start out with the sense of it becoming a
religion of an empire or a conquest. Conquest is not in the Qur'an. It doesn't exist. It's not really
there. But when Islam became extremely successful demographically and also militarily, then
some leaders used that notion of Jihad from the Qur'an in order to justify conquest and
controlling other peoples and other communities of people. So it's a kind of imperialist interpretation
that was imposed on the Qur'an to justify the imperialism of the Muslim conquest and control
of other communities of people. So yeah, there is justification for Jihad, meaning war and fighting.
And if it's fighting on behalf of the community, it's holy. It's sacred. So you could call it holy war.
But it was also engaging in all kinds of other things on behalf of the community, caring for the
poor, taking care of orphans and widows who don't have people to take care of them to support them
economically, and all kinds of other activities as well. That's also Jihad in Islam. So yeah,
there are Muslims who want to define Jihad as holy war on behalf of the Muslim community to
expand and conquer the world. But that's not the normative position. Okay. But there are people
in the west who then pick up on that and they say, yeah, that's the normative position. That's
what all Muslims want. And that's not true. The Jihadi Muslims, by definition, and they call
themselves Jihadis, take that position that I just said that Jihad is a desideratum. It's a
requirement, God's requirement to conquer the world and reestablish the caliphate until the
entire world will either accept Islam or will accept living under the hegemony and the rule of Islam.
Right. That's a position. That's not the normative majoritarian position in the Muslim world.
I think we should also take this back to Judaism, for example, for people, because
that's the way I like to... I take things away from hotspots sometimes to give you an analogy,
and then they can learn and go, oh, because, well, they want Islam to be bad in every single
respect, and it has ill intent. But when we look at Judaism, look at what happened in the war in
70, right, before the war in 70. You had certain Jews who were willing to fight. I mean, they
literally believed in God's kingdom coming, and were hoping that the angels of God would come out
of heaven and help them defeat the Romans, or God was going to finally set up the Jewish state to
rule the world. Why? Because there are prophecies that say one day, you know, the mountaintop of Zion
will be above all the nations' mountains, and there'll be the nations coming and grabbing the
coattel of 10 Jews and saying, teach us your ways, you know. So they're coming from... If I was them,
born in their household, I would probably think this is justified, and this is good, and this is
holy war. But most Jews were totally content living in the empire, were totally happy in the
diaspora out here enjoying life, and saying, chill out, guys, stop. Now, if we wanted to be
disrespectful to Judaism, we would then say, and there are people who do this, Judaism is at its
core, wants to rule the world, which we have these weird conspiracies out there that Jews somehow
rule the world right now, even though they make up less than 1% of the world's population,
it's like they rule the world, there's a conspiracy here, and they really want to destroy us all.
So at the end, you're either going to become a nohide, become a Jew, or get your head cut off
or die, you know, like it's always some conspiracy. So we shouldn't paint because certain minority
groups that are radicals do certain things, and then we want to paint everybody else like
they're all like that. It's an analogy I figure I'd paint, I don't know.
Yeah, well, I'd like to speak to that a little bit. That view is a bit of a Christian projection
on Judaism, because actually, I wrote a book about this as well, it's called Holy War, it's
called Holy War and Judaism. So maybe, I didn't see it, you might not have it there.
I'm sorry, Holy War, yep, here it is.
Holy War and Judaism, the fall and rise of a controversial idea, that's right.
The Jews were, Judaism or a Jewish practice among Jews in the biblical period was pretty militant.
Okay.
But the militancy was really to establish a safe haven for monotheism. It was the only
monotheist gig in town, that's it, there wasn't anything else. And it wasn't all that much fun.
God was a spiritual notion, there were no idols, there was no worship, there weren't
supposed idols, there wasn't anything concrete to hold on to. There were no kind of fertility
rights that were connected with the fertility goddess that would, you know, inseminate the
flocks and the crops. So they would engage, we know about this, in the biblical and extra
biblical literature, engage in kind of fertility rights of like public displays of sex to kind of
get the gods or goddesses turned on so that their sperm and eggs would come down and fertilize the
world. That's exciting, that's fun, that didn't happen in biblical monotheism, right, in pre-Jewish
Israelite monotheism. And they were a very small community, and it was easy to
become influenced by the communities that lived around it. So the militancy in the Hebrew Bible,
if you look at it carefully, militancy in the Hebrew Bible, you don't even have to look at it
that carefully, you don't have to like cherry pick for this, it's overwhelming. Oh yeah.
Militancy in the Hebrew Bible, and it was quite militant and quite violent, was to establish a
safe haven in one place, the Holy Land, the land of Israel, the place in that area,
where they could worship undisturbed. It was not to conquer other countries. In fact, there are
verses in the Torah itself that say, I didn't tell you, God's saying, I didn't tell you to go
conquer these people. This is their land, this is not your land. You conquer this land, and this
land needs to be free of idolatry. And the references in the prophetic works that you were
citing for the whole world kind of coming to know God, it is not really not a militant or a
conquest or an imperialist reference at all. It's a kind of an aspiration that maybe someday we
or let's say, with confidence, someday everyone will come to realize there's one God. So it really
is not a, it never was a missionizing religion, and partly because there was no notion in the ancient
Jewish perspective that non-Jews would burn in hell. That didn't exist.
I like this, this is cool. You didn't worry about other people. You do it your way,
we'll do it our way. That was the position that was overwhelmingly the position in the Hebrew
Bible. The notion of reward and punishment in an after life is virtually non-existent in the
Hebrew Bible. Some people refer to the revival of the bones in Ezekiel as a kind of a reference to
the world to come, but that's really not. It's really a reference to a revival of the people of
Israel, when they regain sovereignty again and re-establish a commonwealth. So yeah, yeah.
I love this. Some of this stuff is kind of projection, and you have to be very careful about that.
Yeah, I like that, because I think even in that passage, it's that the nations will flow to Mount
Zion. Not that Mount Zion's going to come over there and kick their butt, but yeah, we get that
projection a lot, and I guess you would say that the freedom fighters there in Jerusalem that were
fighting in the temple against Rome, they definitely wouldn't have done it if they didn't feel justified,
whether whatever side you stand on in history to think, I like to be neutral and try to understand
if I was one of these Jews, what was I thinking, and why would I have done this? If I was one of
these Romans, what would I think, and why would I do this? And I think both are right and both
are wrong, depending on how you want to try and look at this, but most Jews, from what I understand,
would have not been pro-fight and cause Rome to come kick butts. Now we're going to be persecuted
even more and viewed by Rome in a negative light. They probably most weren't concerned,
I would imagine, populace-wise for what was going on there at the Jerusalem temple. Am I right about
that at least? We don't have the numbers, and of course the zealots, they're called the zealots,
they lost, and they didn't write history. Everybody wanted their own sovereignty,
everybody wanted the Roman Empire to leave them alone, everybody wanted to be able to be in charge
of their own political and religious life. Nobody wanted the Romans there controlling them,
I mean it's fair to say, whether you were a Pharisee, or a zealot, or an Essen, or any of the
communities there, but the Jews who survived and then wrote the history afterwards were the ones
who were not the zealots. There were some rabbis who were very supportive of the zealots,
including one of the most important rabbis in our tradition, Rabbi Akiva, but he lost and he was
killed, and those that survived then sort of retool Judaism to be a non-militant tradition,
and that's what that book is about, that transition in Judaism from a militant
to a quietist non-militant tradition, and then the revival of militancy in some branches of
Orthodox Judaism today, and how those major things can change. Remember I said earlier,
there are vectors of thinking in a religion, violent vectors, non-violent vectors, anti-violent
vectors, and those vectors become activated at different times. Christianity started out as a
quietist religion, but in the height of the Middle Ages it was the most militant of all of our
traditions, where penance, and what's the word for it, capara is coming to me in Hebrew, were
atonement for sin can be achieved by killing people. It's like I've heard this idea where
martyrs, in Christian tradition, martyrs will go directly to heaven for being killed on behalf of
the faith. It literally reverses the role, it's almost like dying in battle or killing in battle
can get you to heaven, so they just take it a step further, and then of course making what was it
just war theory becomes, and it's like, you know, obviously they're not listening to the words Jesus
is saying, but they find a way in their tradition, this hagiography if you will, to find a way to
make it work and fit. I need to get that book. Let's cover a couple more of your books as we're
leaving here, because I really want people to get acquainted with your work, and I'd love to do
episodes diving deeper if we can. Let's see, what else do we have here? Children of Abraham,
an introduction to Judaism for Muslims? What's this one about? Well, it's not intended for
conversion, it's just intended for understanding. So I wrote two books. One is an introduction
to Judaism for Muslims, and also an introduction to Islam for Jews. So these are simply ways,
there, that one, for people to learn more about another tradition and to see how similar we are
in some ways and how our distinctions are so interesting. Wow. So those are those.
And those are deep dives. Journeys in holy lands. In light of that, that one you wrote a long time
ago, I've recently been doing episodes talking to somebody who thought maybe Jerusalem played a much
bigger significance in early Islam in the time of Muhammad, and then later, it's almost like
Mecca becomes the holy city. And some of the key pieces of evidence are, when we look at the biblical
tradition, you have throughout the Hebrew Bible, mostly if we take the J-E-D-P or some form of
documentary supplementary hypothesis, it seems that Judah is like, from Judah, you'd see like,
the pen writers got that bias. Like, we have the holy place, it's not up there in the north,
where the kingdom was bigger before Assyria came and did what they did, but Jerusalem. And
Jerusalem becomes the pivotal key house of God. And we see that all the way even into the New
Testament, Jesus is giving a nod, Jews are seeing this Jewish tradition. And then you get to Islam.
And the way that one of these people who were trying to make this argument were saying,
hey, look, it appears that Jerusalem would still be this holy place, the house of God.
And this is why Muhammad and then we're going to try and take it and conquer it,
because they saw it as this holy place. But then it shifts to this place down, we call Mecca,
down in the south, whether it was really located there or not, their maps by Ptolemy and weird
things like, where is this place at? What are your thoughts? Have you looked into this
deeply? And have you given any thought on what you think is going on?
Yeah, I've given it a little thought. I haven't looked at it deeply. Jerusalem was associated
with sanctity. And if you want to make a claim for sanctity, it's helpful if you
can associate yourself with Jerusalem. So that's very interesting because nothing
really sacred happened in Jerusalem in ancient biblical history, nothing. No revelations occurred
in Jerusalem, Mount Sinai, where were the prophets outside of Jerusalem? Jerusalem became a holy
place because it was the center of the nation and the nation's capital and where the king sat.
And that's probably why it became holy. So traditions then kind of grew up around it,
but nothing particularly special happened in Jerusalem. But by the time Jesus was around,
it was a very holy city. And Jesus even says it's not fitting for a prophet to die anywhere except
in Jerusalem. His whole mission in life, he was in the Galilee. He only came to Jerusalem at the
end. And his birth in Bethlehem, just outside of Jerusalem, some scholars say, was an attempt to
associate him with Jerusalem early on. So yes, there certainly by the time of Jesus, it was
really important to be associated with the holy places in Jerusalem if you wanted to be,
I guess you could say understood, it would add to your credentials of sanctity.
Well, Muhammad was born very, very far away. And according to the Muslim tradition, it's
not in the Quran at all. He probably didn't go to Jerusalem. There's some references to him
arriving in Syria. Syria in those days meant also Jerusalem. That is the whole area, what we'd
call the Levant, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, and Israel, Palestine. So it seems that he probably
didn't go to Jerusalem. But there is an association with Jerusalem already in one verse in the Quran,
which you're probably familiar with. And first verse in, I believe it's chapter 17,
that's Surah al-Isra, where Muhammad takes a night journey. It doesn't say to Jerusalem,
it says to the furthest mosque, it's Masjid al-Aqsa, which means the furthest mosque.
The mosque in Jerusalem today is called al-Aqsa, because it's associated with that,
but it's not clear necessarily that that was what was being thought of in the Quranic reference.
And then there's a story about him coming to Jerusalem that probably was an attempt
to associate Muhammad with the sanctity of Jerusalem. Jerusalem is considered a gateway
to heaven in Jewish tradition, and it becomes a gateway to heaven in Islamic tradition too.
Post-Coronic, there's a bridge that ascends in the last day from Jerusalem to heaven, and all
humans after being judged in Jerusalem will walk that bridge to heaven, but only the righteous
will be able to manage it, because it's the width of the hair, and the evil sinners will fall down
into the Hinom Valley, which you probably learned about, was the place where people were burned
to Mullah in the ancient Israelite tradition, and the Israelites weren't supposed to do it,
but probably if you did. And that name in Hebrew is gay Hinom, which is understood in
some Christian traditions as Gehenna, and in Arabic, Jahannum, which is one of the words in the
Quran for hell. So you're traversing that narrow bridge, if you are not righteous, you will fall
down into Jahannum, which is the opening to hell. So that's really interesting. Jerusalem is quite
important to Islam. Isn't that path, that thin hair, isn't that something derivative from Zoroastrian
tradition? Because I hear they had a knife's edge, and there's a lake of lava. Yeah, and if
you're righteous, you'd fall in it, and it'd be like warm milk. It wouldn't even hurt you. But if
you were unrighteous, it would burn away all the wicked. Yeah, I'm not familiar with the tradition,
but it may very well be, because we're, because we are, I don't want to use the word borrowing,
because it sounds like we're not independent. We're using, reusing, loving each other's
traditions over and over again. And that's one of the things that makes study of religion so
fascinating when you look at all this material. But I think that certainly Jerusalem became very
important for Islam, whether it's really early on or not, I can't really weigh in on that.
Last question, and this is about what we didn't talk about yet, was pagan influence or what we
call pagan? And I'm just calling it pagan because it's strict definition is different probably than
what I'm actually trying to imply. We have these monotheistic Abrahamic religions, but there seem
to be these outside religions, even the Quran seems to pick up on this idea, that there are,
I don't know if the Quran or if it's early traditions about Muhammad,
that's something I can't remember actually. But I do know there's this idea that there's pagan
thoughts, practices that weren't Abrahamic that were going on around this region in Arabia.
In what way do you think there was impact by them? Did they really still exist then?
Or are we going to say because it was so independent and Abrahamic religions already in there,
that even these pagan practices are also in that vein of these Abrahamic traditions? Because
I know if you go to certain places in the world, there might be Buddhist Jewish monks kind of,
like it's like, hold on, what, you've got Buddhism mixed into your Jewish tradition.
What do you think's going on with Islam? Well, you know, with everything that we're talking about,
there's always antecedents. So the temple in Jerusalem, the great temple to the one great
God of Israel, one God, monotheist, purely absolutely monotheistic temple in Jerusalem.
The architecture of the temple is based on architecture of temples that worship all kinds
of other gods. So everything is being influenced by the surrounding cultures.
In the Hebrew Bible, there was clearly polytheistic influence. The King Josiah had to remove all
these idols from the temple itself when he was cleaning it up. So there definitely was. In the
region of Mecca and Medina in the period of the Prophet, the dominant religious practice,
as far as we know, was pre-Islamic Arabian religion. So what exactly is that? We don't
know a lot about that because early Islam wanted to kind of remove that and just say it was a time
of terrible ignorance and until Islam came and brought light to the world. So they didn't write
a lot about it. There are a couple of works that do, but it seems that it was polytheism,
kind of a standard polytheism. Archaeological digs have dug up idols that were indigenous to the area
and we have, you can even go online and Google images, idols in Mecca and you'll see ancient
idols in Mecca. Islam itself, however, is really a movement against that. So if you're suggesting
that there might be so-called pagan influence in Islam, of course there's influence of the local
indigenous religious cultures, but theologically Islam is really, really quite monotheistic.
Certainly more so than the Hebrew Bible. The Hebrew Bible exhibits a transition
from polytheism to monotheism. But the Quran doesn't. The Quran is quite clear about that.
And I had Peter von Sievers on at one point where he said he thinks that the Quran is reacting to
versions of Christianity that seem to be implying deicide. Christians were, you know,
they're running with their hypostatic union, theological this, theological that. And finally,
you got to ask the question, hold on, we think he's God. Did God die on the cross? And like so,
it's so reactionary to this, this idea that's maybe traditionally being floating around
that they're like, no, he didn't even die. In fact, I don't know if that's completely reactionary
because we do find in Alexandria, Egypt, we do find in local traditions that there are traditions
in Gnostic literature and whatnot that Jesus didn't die and it looked like he died. One says Simon
of Cyrene. Another one has, I can't remember what the other one is, but there's traditions.
Do you think he's on to something with that? Well, the Quran also says that Jesus did not
die on the cross, that they think he died, but he didn't die on the cross. So that's,
that may be a reflection of some of those traditions. That is an area that I haven't
dealt with in depth. So I don't want to venture too many opinions about that. But yeah, yeah.
I snuck in an extra question. Thank you so much. I really appreciate you, Dr. Ruben Firestone. I've
got to read these books because I think that we could really have some fun, not only getting my
audience acquainted with it and them reading it with us, but diving into the history of what you
found within the Bible, within other traditions and the traditions between both Judaism and Islam,
and how it's related to Christians, all of this fun stuff. Thank you for your time. Are there any
final words you'd like to say to our audience? My pleasure to be here. You're doing good work
and you're a good interviewer and this is a lot of fun. I appreciate it seriously. I hope next
time we can do this again, I will be moving to Washington. Ladies and gentlemen, go to the
description, get a copy of his works. I'm going to be reading them. I hope he'll do another interview
with us in the future. Check out our Patreon. We work very hard releasing early content there and
never forget. We are MythVision. Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that
I have worked hard in high quality content that are not in public domain. They're only on the
Patreon. You also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas, or just
want a private chat. You have that access with me. Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to
educate people from more academics and expand what kind of material I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full-time gig and you're helping the community by joining. I'm trying to put together
more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society.
We are educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient texts and mythologies
and history in a way like not many shows do. So please, I could use your help and you're
going to get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
