Gods that have shortcomings, those are the most interesting ones.
Even ancient Yahweh, okay, like which one do you like better?
This grandchild said, I like the Greek stories better.
People who suffer from addiction, prostitutes, pimps,
like extremists in various ways.
Yeah, it put Houtharic's life of Socrates.
He says that he's talking the wall and they were like,
who are you talking to?
Oh, it's my daemon.
Right.
What is it about religion?
What is it about gods that we seek for something better,
something higher, something greater?
And which gods make the most sense for the most people?
What, which God wins?
And why is religion a useful tool in society?
Or is it harmful?
Which side wins?
That's what I want to get into today.
And welcome back to the Gnostic Formant,
and you are about to attain Trunosis.
And today, Derek Lambert from MythVision is joining me in this discussion.
I want to open up the chat and read people's comments
and sort of just do an open engagement discussion thing
and, you know, talk to some people about their thoughts.
Because I'm not trying to be biased.
I'm trying to get all opinions and hear everyone out here.
And actually, I want to start with you, Derek.
I want to start with you about something.
I want to ask you about do you, because I've been,
this is what I've been coming to a conclusion on lately
is that religion does have its purpose in society.
Here's what I mean by that.
Not that we should let these harmful ideas just sort of let loose
and we should be critical, I think.
You and I both have more than a healthy dose of criticism.
I think maybe we sometimes cross that line,
which is what it is, what we do.
Some people would say that.
Other people would say we won't go far enough,
which is like, that's interesting.
We could talk about that too.
But here's what I think recently.
I've been realizing that for people who lose loved ones,
religion is the one thing that offers something for that.
It is the one thing that offers something for death anxiety.
And I think it's the one thing that atheists
should probably recognize as legit.
What are your thoughts on that?
I mean, Neil, I would want nothing less than to be able
to spend the rest of whatever, forever, with people I love.
I mean, it doesn't sound fun that when it ends, it ends.
And when you let go of someone you love and they die,
you want them not to be, that's it.
It's see you later, not goodbye forever, you know what I mean?
Or all we have is a memory.
And we want more than that.
So I don't at all have anything against that.
And in fact, that's the biggest thing I think about religion
that I have a sympathetic or empathetic response for those
who hold to it.
Because even as someone who may not draw their conclusions,
I wish that it were true.
I mean, I heard some atheists go, no, that's it.
I've had enough.
Yeah, that's an interesting take.
That's not the average take for people who don't believe.
Right, right.
I mean, dude, I'm a human, bro.
Like, I am just as human as anyone who has their conclusions
and they disagree with me at the end of the day.
And like, there's something about the passion and the desire
and the love and just the frailty of humanity
that is something that I obviously wouldn't want to see end.
But then there's the side of the suffering and the pain
and everything that goes with that you'd love to end,
which leads us to this kind of idea about which God wins.
Well, for me, obviously, you know, I don't, there's no,
like my actual conclusion is at this moment, no God.
But if we're going to play in the sandbox,
which we're going to do today,
and that's like to think about which God's like sound cool.
I want to play around with the idea if there is a God,
like which one makes a lot of cool sense
and kind of has an interesting take on the world
and how we interpret them and stuff.
Let's have fun doing that.
Let's take the audience super chats and like throw them at Neil.
You help his channel.
But also, you know, we want to put you on a pedestal today.
Let your voice be heard and see what comes out of that.
But for me, it's not what I was taught that makes the most sense
or is the God that wins if that makes sense.
Yeah.
That's what I wanted to ask the chat is like,
even if you don't like, I want to let people jump in with,
with comments on why they think their God is the right one
and why it makes the most sense.
But also, if you don't believe in it,
if you have, if you're not part of any religion,
what would your ideal God be like if the one was to exist?
If you were to say, you know what,
if I would think that this would be legitimate
if this God did this, if the world was like this,
like we can just, it's like a sandbox of thought right now.
Like you can just think of anything.
But also, people in the chat who might be a heretic,
maybe you are a Christian, maybe you are a Muslim,
but maybe you think something different.
And I was talking to, I was recording a conversation last night
that I'm going to be releasing to this channel in a couple of days.
It's pre-recorded.
It was in person with the Catholic.
And I'm asking him what his thoughts are and what he believes.
And he's not at all in line with like tradition.
He's got a lot of heretical views.
And I was really, it was really like a breath of fresh air
to hear him be so.
Mad respect.
Yeah.
He's just being honest on what he thinks is going to happen
and what he thinks was really,
what he thinks is wrong about the Bible,
but why he's still a Catholic.
Like, it's okay.
I wish more people would talk like this.
Yeah.
That it's like heretical because you don't want to be like that.
You don't want to come off as like,
oh, I don't think their church is right.
I think they're wrong.
But it's interesting to hear people say stuff like that.
That's what I want to get from people, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, that's, I think my hat goes off to that person
because it's hard enough even dealing with people within your
own communities,
especially certain Christian communities where you're thrown
a heretic or they throw that whole to and fro with the wind
traveling, you know, like you're just going with every doctrine.
And it's like, no, I'm really trying.
I'm really trying.
Whereas you're just very comfortable to live in your southern
Baptist church.
Your daddy preaches as the pastor at.
So you can't leave.
Imagine what your dad or mom would think of you if you left
or whatever.
So there's reasoning behind why they are willing to stand on those
verses and throw them at you.
And one thing I think it's important if they're what if I was
just saying who cares what I believe right now.
If the world is the way that it is,
and I was trying to pinpoint deities and like make sense of it.
If I were assuming there had to be one.
Okay.
I would start looking not for an omniscient omnipotent deity.
I know that that's the Islamic one.
Right.
Because there's a problem of evil that is a very difficult issue.
And then there's also divine hiddenness, all this stuff.
But, but I'm looking at gods that have shortcomings.
Those are the most interesting ones.
Even ancient Yahweh.
Okay.
Like you go back in ancient Israeli religion, this God actually,
I'm fascinated with the corporeal deity that has sex, has children,
is married.
It gets angry, is happy.
Really is just a reflection of humans.
But I'm interested in that deity.
I'm interested in Dionysus getting pissed off because the family is
not recognizing his divinity.
And so he has the minads go into a frenzy and even the minads kill.
You know, like it's just, it's like, whoa,
because it's more reality.
It's almost like.
And then even when Agape repents and says, oh, I'm sorry,
you are the one like I repent.
And he says it's too late.
Like that's like, that's that tragedy that, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
I mean, dude, it's, let's be honest, right?
We all like the Game of Thrones or at least some of us,
I would imagine most of us, right?
And it's some gory, bad stuff.
So if we just say, look, the problem of evil, we came, like,
it is what it is.
And even the gods are affected by it.
Okay.
Now we're getting into a different world than what we've been taught
in the bubble of Christianity.
I agree.
Thank you for the super chat.
I think God existed.
He would need to reverse the suffering of animals and humans like.
That's wild.
Samantha was thinking.
And though this is the number one thing that if I was this,
if I picked death, anxiety is the number one thing of why religion
has its purpose.
The, the suffering of the problem of evil and suffering is the,
is the number one rebuttal to these are the,
these are the two ideas that boom, they clash and they can't be like,
it's just, she's, she's on point about this.
Like if there is a God that's in control of everything.
Right.
That's a problem.
You have the, that's a problem.
Right.
You have to explain what, why is it this, this reality is so not
well done.
Like it's not finely tuned.
People say it's so finely tuned.
We have just enough oxygen.
We have just enough.
That's like, yeah.
Yeah.
Cause of evolution.
We do cause we're evolved this way.
Right.
Right.
But, um, what was I going to say, but then there's,
then there's these pagans that say, we don't have faced that problem
of evil.
We have multiple gods.
There's different forces at work.
And due to these forces playing tug of war, there's problems that come
from that.
And there it's not one God's fault.
It's a different, it's a series of events and that's interesting.
But is paganism really like, I mean, to me, when I look at the ancient
religions of the Greece and Rome, and I'm just so amateur, but I love reading
about this stuff.
It seems there are more about the rituals than they are about the belief
in the faith.
Right.
More tradition.
Yeah.
100% brother.
And then in reality, the actions that they take the, and the divine are
connected.
So this is why when Christians were doing what they were doing, they
were called atheists.
They didn't actually have an image.
They didn't have an actual deity that was connected.
And they believed that the forces that be, we're going to neglect and
forsake Rome or forsake Greece or whoever because they were neglecting
the deities.
And so you were inevitably going to get the suffering because of these
things.
So they, there's a lot connected to this, but one thing that I think is
interesting.
I interviewed Bernardo Castro, who's like a really brainiac philosopher.
And at the end of the discussion, he pretty much just said the imperfections
we see in the world, suffering, bad, all of these things we talk about
death, whatnot, are actually, in his view philosophically, the, the, it's
like a glitch in the, in the matrix, so to speak, or glitch in the system.
To him, he said, this is a reflection of the mind behind creation.
So he admits that the creator of the creation or whatever that is, is also
affected.
And it doesn't know it's confused.
It doesn't know what to do completely.
It struggles.
So now you're dealing with a deity that isn't what we've been told by the
typical Christian philosopher types that want to say God is omniscient and all
loving and all this and that.
And it's like, why is there so much bad?
So if we kind of work within that model and see in the Greek world that look,
evil is evil and it's there.
And how are we going to address it?
Even the gods get affected by it.
Yeah.
That's, that's the sandbox I'd rather play with.
The best God, if I were just painting it, would be like ending all bad, all
evil, everything good, no more death, no more, you know, but that's kind of too
easy.
That doesn't make this podcast fun, if that makes sense.
Right.
Yeah.
That is, that it's a cop out.
It's like a simplest.
Just imagining what we want to be true, which, but then again, isn't that what
we do when we try to resolve death anxiety and fear of fear that we lost our
love?
We're just, we're hoping, we're hoping we're, we're projecting our insecurities,
our disbelief and something that's shocking.
We're doing that.
Like that's what we're doing.
I mean, even if it's like jumping and grabbing onto some religion that you grew
up in, even if that's the case, you're still doing it at some degree, still hoping
for some, and which is, I don't, I don't knock that.
I can't blame them.
Yeah.
I understand.
It's not easy.
Words can't just change that.
There's nothing deeper and experience that I think can affect that.
You know, discovery latest sponsor, feared.
Yeah.
Maybe I need to do need some of that.
I was going to trim it.
Actually, I think I'm going to get a little trim going.
It's getting a little, it's getting a little long, but I don't know.
I was just going to, I haven't done this in a while.
I used to have one a couple of years ago and I got rid of it, but it's back.
Pat, Pat's, Pat's rooting that beard on.
I'm going to tell you, you know.
Yeah.
And Joy says, my mom posted something on her Facebook today.
Have you ever thought about suffering as a way for God to mature and sink deep us?
Oh, gosh.
I have so many replies to this.
That's interesting.
That's another thing.
This is a whole nother thing to open up.
What if God is subservient to a different force and that he's got a, he's got problems
and he's failing at something.
That's the reason why everything's messed up.
What if he has to, what if it's his job to make sure everything here is perfect and he's,
he's failing?
What if he's about to face judging for that?
Like, I don't know.
It is kind of looking out there, but like, I feel you because think about what you're
saying, right?
And like, imagine Mormons are kind of on the money with that, right?
And so God has a God and he lived on some other planet, our God.
Let's just pretend it's, it's this one deity of this planet.
And he has wives and children.
He sinned in his human life on that planet, wherever that was.
And then, of course, he had to follow and obey and worship in order to get this planet.
It like, it's this endless turtles all the way down kind of idea that it never ends,
if that makes sense.
Yeah.
I think the Gnostics, well, some of the Gnostics, we call it Gnostics now, some of these early
Christians had beliefs like that with the Aeons, Sophia, and I forgot what that, I think
it's the Monad, they call it.
The one on top was the Monad.
And from the Monad was all these Aeons.
And they're all basically God.
And Yelda Boeth is one of these gods.
He's the Old Testament God.
So that, those ideas are not like new or anything.
Those are, those were floating around for a while.
Right.
That's why I love getting into these early Christians.
Like Bart Amon wrote about the lost Christianities.
Well, I found Christianities.
You can, you can go to Mary Beard writes about this and her religions of Rome.
She talks about all the different, some little bit, a little bit about that.
But it's, it's mind blowing because we think of early Christianity is like, oh, they must
have been the most closest to what Orthodox is.
They must have, there must have been no, there must have been no disagreements at all.
Everyone must have been agreeing on everything.
No.
They didn't even think God was the same thing.
They had different names.
Some had many gods.
Yeah.
Some of them thought reincarnation was going to have some of them thought, you know, you
go to heaven.
Like there's different, there was a whole wide ranging ideas of Christianity early on
that people don't get into.
But um, yeah, that's what, and that's, I don't know, like, I feel like that's right there.
But I think that's what makes it evident that we don't, nobody knows.
We're all just kind of just thinking and projecting our, and as philosophy grows, theology grows
alongside with it, they're intertwined.
So Plato comes along and he changes the game and his, his, his, his dialogues and people
take from Plato and then they write their stuff and all of a sudden you see religions
start changing.
Right.
You know, as a result of that.
You start seeing more, I don't know, but that's part of it.
Science is also changing the philosophy and like our natural observations of the world
are impacting how we're coming to philosophical stances for the, for the most part.
I mean, there's some people who just don't even allow the natural world to impact their
view.
They might have a particular philosophical view, but I have noticed that that is a big change
in philosophy is learning more about the natural world and scientific method and whatnot.
But yeah, there's so much.
You know what's interesting about that is the, the idea of their, the Bible being having
to be literally true, meaning Noah literally like, was it made an arc and put animals on
there?
Adam and Eve literally lived in paradise.
Those ideas were not, that was not a thing until science progressed to a certain point
and the enlightenment.
It was like a reaction to the enlightenment because people, they're like, it has to be,
if it's not literally true, then it doesn't matter, it's all just metaphoric cares.
So you had this Protestant's push towards, well, it is literally true.
And if you, and if, and if you don't think so, then you're not a real Christian.
Are you saying that it was never understood literally?
That's what I think.
I disagree.
Yeah.
I could be wrong, but I do think, I do think that when the Old Testament writers were putting
together the Bible, they weren't, it wasn't supposed to be taken literally.
Also with the New Testament, even some of the gospel stories were not supposed to be
taken literally.
Well, okay.
So now we're, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this, okay.
There's not every, there are some things that people said, like the idea of him resurrecting
people that you, that's, that's, there's a difference in what I'm saying is, is I can't
get into the minds of the authors, but I mean, whether the Genesis author or authors that
is behind Genesis one, because Genesis two is separate, what they thought about what
they were writing.
If this is allegory or whatever genre they were writing was not literal history, maybe
how it was understood, I mean, I can't force, I really do think that, for example, the way
Paul interprets these things from one man, all the nations of the earth, et cetera, like
he seems to have a belief that Adam is the first man.
And so they, they're taking this scripture as like they really believe it's literally
the truth of how mankind came to be and how this Christ figure of his is the last Adam
and such.
So I do think it was understood that way by some, but maybe some not just like in the
myths of the Greek world.
There were some people who really believe this stuff.
And then there were others who went great, great stories, like great story, dude, cool
story.
We're not buying it literally.
And then of course you see problems, you see that in Cicero's on the gods where there's
the drug and there's like, we really think this is true.
Like you don't think this is just metaphors to teach you lessons.
And then the other guys like, no, it's happened.
It's true.
It's real.
Yeah.
But I'm not ruling out like what you're saying about what were the original intentions
of the authors.
Do we think Mark wrote a historiography that is like supposed to actually tell you what
literally happened?
Or is he writing mythic mythoid?
Is he writing something that's literally meant to be a myth, an origin myth of Christianity?
And I tend to think that he's writing origin myth of Christianity rather than actual history.
It got understood eventually as history.
But even Justin Martyr, bro, you know, you're going to be helping me edit that clip.
But that's how Plato, that's how Plato portrayed Socrates.
He didn't portray him historically.
Plato's portraying Socrates in a way that he wants you to think Socrates is.
He's making Socrates talk about Platonic forms.
And like, I'm not, I'm not the expert in this, but like experts tell me that's not what Socrates
was was talking about.
This is Plato's ideas.
Right.
And I'm like, okay, well, that makes sense.
Like that's that's just how they wrote stories about people who they thought thought high
of they make.
So you get a character like Jesus, who is super popular, whatever, for whatever reason,
he has a following is correct charismatic.
And then people want to use him as a tool to portray a message somehow.
Right.
Isn't that not what's accurate?
Isn't that what happened with Socrates?
Yeah, absolutely.
By the way, now, I feel like we should be entering into a Bacchic trance during this
during this episode.
Can we try doing that and seeing if the audio comes through clean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
What a subtle mine.
Mine.
Oh, and by the way, can you pull that up that while you're pulling that?
I'll pull this up.
You pulled the music up.
This is the course that I have in the list in the description from Dr. Dennis McDonald.
So he teaches how the gospel are how to what do you say, a bow ring?
I'm imitating.
There you go.
I don't want to say copying, borrowing.
That's the right word.
Imitating scenes from Greek poetry, such as Homer, such as Plato, and you can, he lays
it out for you.
He shows you the evidence.
He shows you how.
He shows you how not only do we do, can we see the mimesis in the text, but we also have
evidence of Byzantines practicing this very method in their education systems.
So to me, I think he's very convincing.
I think it's just like, I don't even know why it's, it's, I think it's convincing.
That's all.
You know, I just, I love that tune.
Dude, let me put it this way.
I worked, look at the title, right?
With Dennis McDonald and Derek Lambert.
It's 18 lectures, bro.
Yeah.
I mean, I edited this, that's a lot of content.
This took me.
I mean, you're going to come out of this as an expert in this whole, oh, without a doubt,
bro.
45.
You will, you will have the tools.
If you ever end a debate with the Christian about the gospels are literally true.
Like you're big debating a fundamentalist, you know, someone he want to just, you know,
you're engaging in friendly debate, you know, is this just, you know, you're whatever.
This is going to give you some tools, right?
Like you're going to be equipped with some stuff that's going to like shock people.
This is good stuff right here, right?
Dude, there's 76 people watching, right?
I want a tee.
Look, I have not even done this on MythVision.
I feel like getting them behind this paywall for just a second to let them see and like
if they decide as a, like whatever they could find a way to buy the course, you're helping
Dennis McDonald.
You're helping Neil.
If you purchase the course through his link, like it is a way to keep doing what we're
doing here, educating the world, but this goes deep.
I'm going to share the screen and actually play the very beginning here.
I haven't even done this on MythVision, brother.
Nice.
So exclusive, exclusive, bro.
Hold on.
Let me exit that.
Here we go.
Share my screen.
That music's where it's at, ain't it?
Yeah.
I like that.
Fills to it.
He's the mood.
Right.
Exactly.
Okay.
Here we are.
Lecture one.
Audio is attached.
Here we go.
I'm going to turn off the, the mine ads from singing for a second here.
Okay.
And here we go.
And it was astonishing what I saw.
Jesus sails the sea with a crew, that is his disciples, that are not nearly as noble
as he is, like Odysseus.
Like Odysseus, Jesus keeps his identity a secret so his enemies can't kill him.
The Jewish authorities play the role of Penelope suitors.
They love the best seats in synagogues and they're willing to kill in order to win the
inheritance.
Judas plays the role of Melantheus, Jesus's turncoats slave.
Jesus has his feet anointed by a woman, like Odysseus having his feet anointed by his
nurse Eurychlea and she recognizes him from his scar and the name Eurychlea means renowned
far and wide and it said of this woman who anoints Jesus that wherever the gospel is
proclaimed it'll be in her memory.
So these parallels were so striking that I dared not give a new lecture on it because
it hadn't been digested.
And so I spent another summer working through the Gospel of Mark creating criteria where
I might be able to make a claim that there's a literary connection and at point after point
after point it became clear that Mark was imitating not just the Odyssey but also the
Iliad and also some Tragedian plays and I translated Homer and Euripides and Plato for
myself in order to compare the Greek of the Gospel of Mark with the Greek of these stories
and it was unbelievable what I was finding.
I also turned to a study of Greek rhetoric and understood better how literary imitation
or mimesis worked and it was that people were taught how to write by imitating recognized
models and to compare heroes in an activity called synchrosis.
Synchrosis is simply a comparison to show that one character is similar but better than
another and of course that's what's going on in Mark.
This is like Odysseus but he's better than Odysseus.
He's like Hector in his death but he comes back to life.
So that's a synchrosis and it goes on and on.
Bro, I'm going to tell you this is a bombshell course.
It's game changer stuff.
He's finding out a lot of amazing material that's not on everyone's radar.
That's for sure.
No, and I had to stop there bro but that's like seven minutes in and there's like 30
something.
That's the intro.
There are 18 of those lectures.
You pinned the link in the chat so anyone who's serious about it.
It's in the description right on top and it's also pinned on the chat.
I mean he's just, it blows my frickin mind and it's sad the way that New Testament studies
has been on that but he's connecting to that Greek world and he asked a question in his
book called Mythologizing Jesus which is in the vein of the topic of this video like
which God wins and stuff.
He asks his grandchild and he says, now you've heard both connections.
You've heard the Jesus story and then you heard the Greek story.
You've heard the Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.
You've heard Euripides Bacchae.
Which one do you like better?
This grandchild said, I like the Greek stories better but he said but which one would you
rather imitate more like because they're not as merciful.
They don't show kindness as much you know like Dionysus is like too late.
I don't care if you say you're sorry at this point.
You're dead whereas Jesus shows mercy and so he's like the Jesus story is a better example
of how to live but the Greek story is you know way better, way cooler, way more fun
and so it was, I actually teared up reading his Mythologizing Jesus book at the end when
I finally got through seeing what he was saying and then saw that and thought about that.
I was like it brought beauty to the whole thing so I was like this is really cool man.
That's why we can have these talks and not like let's not even entertain the idea or
even pretend and discuss different gods and stuff.
Yeah, no that's what I'm trying to, I'm trying to be open to this stuff you know as much
as possible because I'm going to explore it.
I'm going to do critical videos on these things.
It's only fair and right that I'm open to hearing other people and their you know their
points of view you know.
So but then yeah, so Dennis McDonald's mimesis stuff is great.
He really shows how and it's and like if you're on the side of believing in Christianity it's
not a bad thing, it's not like a, oh this is not like a, it's over for Christianity.
Dennis McDonald figured out that they're imitating these other texts.
No, no, no all it does is say that the Christians held these texts dearly and they wanted and
this is how they, you know, it just means that they're passing down texts that are held
high.
Right.
High standard.
Imagine you went to make a TV show tomorrow on Netflix and you don't model it after the
best, Breaking Bad, Sons of Anarchy, well I mean you know I'm showing my bias here but
like get any type of TV show, Game of Thrones, whatever and you don't imitate but try to
be better than, you aren't replicating what you know works, you're an idiot business person
if you don't do that.
Like you legitimately if you're going to be successful you have to make the best and
you see what works the best in the known world.
So when you go to make your Netflix series, what are you going to do?
Are you going to not try and work within the confines of what you know to be the best?
Yes, you are.
And in fact Homer, Euripides, this is the creme de la creme of the ancient Greco-Roman
world, literally.
Absolutely.
I agree with that.
Ted Francis, thank you for the super chat, I really appreciate that, it's always good
to see you here.
I think the sun is the only thing that's close to a god.
Oh, I would love to ask you more about what you think about that, what do you mean?
Do you mean like the sun gives life because plants grow and, you know, the sun is like
the main thing that creates a lot of like, you know, rain and all this stuff is caused
by the sun.
Is that where you're getting at?
Is like, by default, like we don't, I don't know, what do you, is that, is that what he's
trying to say?
If you have, if you're in the chat still, there's a interesting point though.
You remember the stand up comedian who's like, he's going to burn you and torture you and
kill you and squash you and crush you.
Body loves you, Carl Carlson or something.
I can't remember his name.
It's something like, yeah, that's, you know, well, he even went on record in one of his
stand ups and said, I believe he's like, obviously big against religion, but he's like, I believe
in the sun.
And if there is a God, it's the sun.
I wake up in the morning.
It's what gives, it's, I can see it.
I can feel it when I go outside.
I know it's there.
Almost like Akhenaten, man, Akhenaten recognized the sun disc and the sun as the light bearer
that brings life and brings the warmth and all of that.
So there's a sense of like, it's not ridiculous, especially when the ancients did believe that
the sun was a deity and they also thought the planets were deities, et cetera.
But this is why we have like God's like Jupiter, which, you know, anyway, takes Zeus and continue
the planetary thing.
Our weekdays are named after these deities for crying out loud and it's all measurement
of time based on the sun.
So, but yeah, the sun is without it, what, you know, we're done.
So it's like, at least I can see it and it's a faith that if someone actually did believe
in the sun and had some esoteric value to it, yeah, I can't look at them and go, okay,
it's not ridiculous unless they made claims like, well, the sun's an actual human and
within the capsule of the sun is like a, you start making silly ridiculous claims.
Look at this meme right here.
Without us, you'd still be worshiping the sun.
It's like Columbus talent, talent teaching about Christianity.
Dude, the sun is real.
Right, right.
That's so true though.
You can't knuckle.
You can't, well, that's why the ancients looked up at the sun and said, what is that thing
up there?
It gives us warmth.
It lets us see better.
It makes the crops grow.
It's like, how can you not think there's something magic happening there?
Right.
Not knowing the process behind it, you know?
Without a doubt.
And that's like why it's not silly.
Even today, as my experience, I'll go outside and I'll feel the warmth of the sun and the
breeze and the cool wind and, you know, I'll get that euphoric, man, the season, the smell,
the fresh air, something amazing about the human experience in that respect.
And that's why I tell people, even though I don't believe, like in the belief sense
that Christians have or, you know, most people who are theistic, like I still get those experiences
I had back when I was still religious.
And my point is, is I think it's a human thing.
But anyway, that's, it's, I love this.
I love this super chat though.
And it's not, it's, it reminds you like the, the more, because we, when we brought up in
religion, Christianity or Judaism or whatever Islam, we like to, we're taught that, you
know, monotheism was first and then all these pagans came along and they're the ones that
are heretics.
So they came later, but like really it's way, the monotheism is so new compared to all these
ancient completely like, like, you know, like they're, they're often they're different
lands doing their different things.
They have their own religions happen and most of them, and there's a reason why Achelios
is equivalent to Ra or equivalent to Asura in the Hindus because they're both the sun
gods, right?
And what you see is it's not that they're all like, it's not like a lot of conspiracy
theorists, but there was a one world religion back in the day and there was an ancient society
and there they had pyramids that were par, no, no, no, it's not what it, it's not what
that's saying.
What it's saying is they saw the same things in nature, the night sky, oh, that's the goddess
nicks or whatever in some, some, in some cultures, it's a God, not a goddess, just the night
God.
But like the same phenomena happening in nature, river gods, sun gods, wind gods, volcano gods.
And so what you see is you see the same sort of pantheon starting sprouting up.
And it is true that some of them do come from common ancestry.
Or like they have some genealogical connection to how they learn this.
Atomology rising, that's true.
But you're saying it's ubiquitous across the earth and it even goes further like the
dying and rising God things.
You and me both, I think that you would agree, you might disagree, that's fine.
There are examples, I think there's good reason to say there's some social relationship
in how narratives were, were created or at least in certain cultures, they've been impacted.
So there's a dying and rising God, maybe idea, but death is ubiquitous.
So in some cases, maybe they aren't connected, but the rebirth idea or, or cyclical agricultural,
you don't need to tell me, right?
It doesn't, it's not like I had to go learn this from you down here to see the same cycle
of nature taking place, then to draw some conclusion that, oh, we actually get reincarnated.
In fact, I think that we come back or we get rebirthed or we go into heaven, whatever the
different models might be, because we're all making a guess to try and understand the world.
Well, seeing the same thing happening around us.
Exactly.
When someone dies, a new person is born.
Huh, I wonder if that's a cycle.
And then you start thinking, you start feeling in the blanks with kind of what is a hope.
Which is kind of, it's kind of what faith actually is.
You're hoping for something to, and then I'm not like making fun of her.
I'm just saying that that's kind of what it is.
Like you're hoping that everything's going to work itself out, that you're going to see
everyone again one day on the other side, you know, in fact, I just thought of something.
I was, um, I used to have this belief.
This is a wild belief.
Um, this was, I don't even know when I thought of this, but like I was thinking to myself,
like if this, if it's true that the atheists are right and there's no spirits in this word,
everything's natural.
Everything's a natural process.
Right.
Right.
And then I thought, what is the only way that there could be like an afterlife, right?
I'm thinking to myself, like, how would it play out in my mind that this could be possible?
And this is what I thought of.
And this is going, this is probably completely a scientific that will just hear me out.
It's going to be funny.
I thought that when everyone dies, that's it.
You go into the, you go into the ground, you're, you're, you're no more conscious.
You're, you're, you're not existent.
You're gone.
You're not experiencing darkness.
You're not in the abyss.
You're not, it's not, you're just not there.
You're just gone.
You're just not existing anymore.
Right.
But what if after the universe has, goes through its heat death, you know, they call it the
heat death, everything when the last black hole sucks up the other.
And there's nothing left in the universe's end.
What if something after that happens and then everything that was conscious somehow regains
its consciousness again?
Like, it's not like, this is crazy, right?
I know.
This is what I thought.
I don't know.
Right, right.
None, none.
I get it.
This is myself trying to say it's still, there still can be a way out, right?
Right.
But think about it.
It's not that you die and go somewhere, like your spirit leaves your body magically and
you fly up to some heaven place.
It's that you die and you wait trillions of years for some natural phenomenon to come and
bring you back somehow, whatever that process is, what can you think about, right?
So it would feel like a split second went by, you would die and you immediately wake
up and it's trillions of gazillion, gazillion, gazillion, infinite years later.
And you didn't even notice it because you just, you were dead the whole time.
So I thought about that.
That was like, that was a thought that I used to carry around with me is like, you never
know what's going to happen after this universe.
We never know.
Like it was one of those.
And it's amazing how the mind will do that.
Like you'll, even when you're faced with so much that brings so much doubt into what
you believe, you'll still think of something like, but still possible.
Right.
Right.
I'm just, I'm just, I'm just trying to explain like we, the human imagination is so powerful.
It is.
It is crazy, right?
You're, you're always, it's always, there's always that like hope of something that's
got to be something like, I don't know, I wonder if anyone can identify with that or
relate to that.
But anyways, it's posture, suspense.
I think the Dionysian, Apollonian dualism makes sense.
Darkness and light.
We see dualism in nature and everything is atoms and void.
It's interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I said earlier, Dionysus, right?
It's one among mini gods, of course.
But it is an interesting, fun narrative to kind of go into and like consider, especially,
think about this man.
Imagine you're out here, you're, you're struggling.
It's hard.
Life's hard enough.
And then you just press some grapes and next thing you know, you're freed.
Like your perception completely changed from struggle and misery to joy.
And it brings you this magical incantation through this grape that honestly makes you
feel like even when shits burn into the ground, there's hope and it gives you a strength.
I remember, I mean, look, you're, I'm a recovering alcoholic and I have almost eight years off
of alcohol.
But when I would drink, I felt I was 10 feet tall and I felt like I was invincible.
This is no joke.
And they say Dionysus made old men act young and be young.
So like there's, of course, there's narratives to it, but alcohol goes way back in this sucker,
dude.
I mean, we're talking way back.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anyway, we're getting into like Carl, Carl Rock and stuff, right?
Like in hell.
Yeah.
Well, somebody who was big amount on this duality thing with Dionysus and Apollo was
Nietzsche.
Uh huh.
He wrote a lot about that because it's like, when you're reading Nietzsche and his take
on the ancient Greeks, he has the, he's like thinking in this dualistic mindset between
the Dionysus and Apollo.
He's talking about like art though.
He's talking about like ancient Greek art, classical art, and he's like dividing everything
up into two different categories, but you don't see, like, you don't hear the ancient
Greeks talking about that.
So it's kind of his own thing, I guess.
Right.
I could be wrong, obviously.
I don't know.
I haven't read everything.
I don't know if what I'm seeing, like, someone might be like, no, it's actually Plato said
it this time.
Sure, you're right.
I don't know.
I could be wrong.
But like, it doesn't seem like that's like, that was like how the Greeks thought about
it.
But it is interesting how Apollo is this like God who, you know, he's sometimes represented
by the sun.
He's light.
Dionysus is more like, uh, he's also, uh, identified as being a Cthonian earthborn.
He goes to the underworld, comes back up.
He's kind of depicted with like black, pitch black hair.
Um, you know, he's, he's, uh, about like sex and wine and where he's a fun God.
Yeah.
Whereas Apollo is about like music, beauty, healing, maybe it's there is sort of a dualism
going on there.
I don't, it's, I don't know where that comes from though.
It's interesting.
But yeah, I don't know.
I'm going to look into that.
It's a good topic.
Yeah.
I think the Greeks were Epicurus and Democritus and those guys were, were theorizing this
stuff.
They weren't, they couldn't test this in labs.
They were theorizing this stuff and being right.
Brilliant people.
Like that's amazing.
Can you Matt?
Yeah.
Would you ever think of atoms and void if you just were sitting in a, and just sitting
it out and outside, just thinking about the universe?
Like,
I'm sure that we could come to that if we're thinking critically and the best we could.
But they're all, I mean, they are right about a lot of stuff, but they're also wrong about
many things too.
We've learned a lot since then, but it's still, again, I've said this in the past, religion,
these gods, I think are our best guests at trying to understand nature.
And maybe, maybe people really believe there were real entities, agents behind the natural
phenomena and eventually once you discover, actually we don't think volcano is a God or
lightning bolt was literally a thunder clap of Zeus or whatever, then it becomes kind
of like, oh, but that was the anthropomorphic language or, you know, we allegorize the Zeus
came down and raped someone.
Well, we know God can't rape.
He doesn't even have sexual desire.
So this must be an allegory.
They philosophize because of the science, because of the natural world.
This is why I said earlier, science is forcing philosophy to, I think it's forcing it to
act a certain way, even though I like, there's some philosophy that I've listened to and
heard that almost sounds like just mental masturbation, like they're making stuff up
and just going out in unfalsifiable ways of like making observations about shit that is
like, what, there's no way to prove or disprove any of that.
But in the ancient world, I think what's going on is they're looking at the natural world,
see a natural phenomenon, measurements, mathematics, calculating things up and going, ah, come
on, that's, that's, that's a story because they had certain concepts of God that kept
getting above the natural world.
They couldn't imagine the gods being corruptible, like the world around them.
And so it's a natural step.
It's not a dumb one.
It's actually smart to start putting the gods in a category that go beyond the world.
And yet you get to a certain point where you're like, where are they at anymore?
Anyway, that's a whole different.
I just want to show this real quick is obviously I'm just looking at a drive by doing some
Wikipedia looking.
This dude lived in the fifth century, BCE, we're talking, you know, centuries, centuries
before Christianity, we're talking before the Roman Empire, he's formulating atomic theory.
Like that is just, I don't know, I'm amazed by that.
I'm sorry.
I'm just amazed by that.
It really, it really blows my mind.
And people are brilliant, like the ancients were a lot more brilliant than we give them
credit for.
Right.
Oh, I mean, like you said, he didn't, he wasn't spot on about it.
He's still got a lot of stuff wrong.
I think he said there were like marbles, like he'd like said, the Adams are like marbles
or something.
Well, everything's spherical.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's, there's some good stuff though, but it's really, it's like, that's someone
who was way ahead of his time, way ahead of his time, you know?
Absolutely.
Not just, not just the Greeks though.
There's brilliant thinkers all over the ancient world and China and all over, you know, yeah.
But anyways,
Someone said that, someone said that Zeus, so Zeus didn't rape.
That's, so I'm speaking at different times here, way, way down.
So I, I just want to make the mark.
Zeus had no sexual desire.
So he did all those.
Zeus was not good at all.
No.
But early on,
and probably to the general people who were practices of the folk religions of Greece
and Rome.
Yes.
He had, he had sexual desires and yes, according to the stories did rapes and things like that.
The philosophers over time started to see that category as no, there's no way Zeus had
sexual desires and actually raped.
They then made an allegory of it.
Kind of like Athanasius made.
That was Plato's main like argument in the Republic was that the way Homer's depicting
the gods is not good.
That's not good.
And it can't be what the gods really did.
So they must be allegories, not to be taken literal.
And that is what the philosopher, the wise men, the ones who were trying to use their
knowledge and gain access to the best they could of the world, not the common folk who
were reading these or hearing these stories and taking Zeus really did come down and sleep
with that girl or whatever.
But they, they allegorize it and the same can be said of Revelation with Athanasius.
If you go and look how Irenaeus started saying Revelation scripture, then read Iron Athanasius
and Eusebius and you're going to go, they allegorized Revelation to be about the church
and the, there's so much stuff they do.
They change the meaning of it to suit their needs.
That's all I meant.
Anyway.
Thanks in the house.
Did the sun help you get clean or higher power?
And we both have years clean of sobriety from our addictions and we both relate on this.
But take, let me hear your thoughts on this first.
What did you, because this is, this is a really good question, Paul, then you bring this up.
Because when you're, one of the things that is really heavily stressed in recovery is
this higher power thing.
Yeah.
You can't, you can't avoid it.
There are secular movements in recovery, but like even they have like the 12, the whole
12 step thing, you, you can go, you might even be in like a court system or they call
them drug courts, whatever.
And they'll be like, are you doing your 12 step program?
And little, and I don't know if they're realistic or not.
There's a God involved in that step.
So you have man court mandated finding of a higher powers court mandated in some, in some
cases.
Yeah.
Because they, well, that's obviously the, in court cases in America, that's the free
way to do it.
You can go down to an AA meeting and in a meeting or whatever the meeting might be.
And they could sign your paper saying, Hey, I attended that the person who's hosting the
meeting can do that.
And I used to sign other people's papers when I would host a meeting.
Right.
The last time I was caught up in my addiction with heroin.
And I actually went through Alcoholics Anonymous, even though I bounced back and forth in Alcoholics
Anonymous.
I mean, I was dying.
I went in there.
I was withdrawing five days off heroin, shaking cold sweats the whole nine.
And just begged, please help me.
Someone help me.
And this person raised their hand and went like this.
I know how you feel you're not alone.
And they just did the five fingers, like just touched it and let me see it.
And I felt like, okay, I'm not alone.
Not alone.
So at first in the Alcoholics Anonymous Avenue while getting clean, I did speak to a higher
power, but wasn't Jesus anymore?
Like at this point, I still had that tradition, that baggage, but I was like, I need your
help.
And so I called it a higher power.
I believed it was something bigger and greater than me.
It was like a mental ascension to something that I was communicating with.
And eventually I then realized it was me, but that that's where it went.
So initially getting clean, I was still praying and asking this thing, this power, almost like
if you read ancient philosophers talking about their daemons, like they have conversations
with themselves, but it's almost like the guardian angel of themselves or something.
Yeah.
Who tarred Slife of Socrates?
He says that he was talking the wall and they were like, who are you talking to?
It's just, oh, it's my daemon.
Right.
And so like for me, it was like this, I'm actually talking eventually that higher power was myself.
So I then realized it was me and my loved ones around me, my mother, my brother, my sister,
my, my wife, my children.
It was them that were my real guardian angels that helped guide me through.
But I had to get out of being so selfish in my mind and try to change that behavior.
But at first you're in a hole.
Like you, there's nothing about dirt around you.
You got to look up in some way in your mind.
You feel like I got to get out of this hole.
And so we used to use acronyms, especially when I was getting out of Christianity, still
going to the meetings.
And I would say, look, man, you need, you probably need to have God in your life, G.O.D.
And I'd always point to my fingers, group of drunks, you need to get around other G.O.D.
group of drunks and connect to the other human.
Yeah.
I don't even have one before.
I forgot about that one.
Yeah, man.
G.O.D.
And like, it was like, we would come up with ways and like people go, you can make the
doorknob your damn higher power.
And imagine if somebody in recovery had Dionysus as their higher power.
That'd be cool.
Got him.
Got an alcohol.
Yeah.
I love you, but I can't touch you.
Right.
Like that.
I wonder if that would work or not.
They're probably either.
I don't know.
It's kind of a weird question, honestly.
Your God is the grape itself is the is the blood within the grape, which is the wine.
And yeah, man, I don't know about all that or Osiris was grain, I mean, or yeah.
So like you have this fertility, but it's also kind of where does vodka come from other
than grain?
And so what are we dealing with here?
It's another thing.
And that's why they ate.
They had the same kind of ritualistic as Dionysus and Jesus.
I think there's a definite connection there.
But yeah, they would drink what they would drink beer in Egypt and they would drink cornbread
to eat the flesh or the body of the God.
Really interesting stuff.
Yeah.
I've always had the issue with the whole higher power thing when I was starting off in the
whole program.
And eventually, well, actually, I shouldn't say eventually, because eventually I ended
up going to prison.
And then I became a Christian.
So that was that was the end of that problem.
But yeah, I didn't before before going before going upstate, I was in and out of programs.
And I would always struggle with that whole higher power, like, what is this is crazy
and fortunate.
So like, you know, I always thought about that.
But then I had some psychedelic experiences as well.
So I don't know, I can't really describe my thoughts on that other than eventually I just
became a Christian.
And then which then eventually was agnostic and then eventually was agnostic and then
eventually pantheist and went through all these different phases in my belief system.
So yeah, I've been everywhere.
I've been I've explored it all, you know, just tried it all out, you know, so might as
well while you're at it.
Might as well.
It's a buffet.
I mean, yeah.
Yeah.
Thank you for this super check.
Constellation Pegasus talk tedious this morning, broke the story of Baltimore Catholics molesting
hundreds of kids.
Haven't looked into it yet.
It looks like it's pretty bad.
I'm look trying to be as I don't know how do you what?
How do you go about this?
But like, how often do we hear these stories?
A lot.
Why?
It's so like something weird about this that even in my local news here in Buffalo,
you'll, I mean, a couple of months, you'll turn on the local news and it'll be another
couple hundred.
Yeah.
A priest in this area from the parish of border to he has been relocated to the Vatican
and they're saying he's going to face trial for that.
Whoa.
Another one.
And this is local news that you don't even know about.
So how many local news is that I don't know about that?
This is happening and he's talking about having a Baltimore.
Why is it so much?
I mean, look, I can't speak to I'm no psychologist.
I don't know the behavioral side of this and why, but if you created a cult that let's
just play around hypothetically, we've been playing around this whole thing about which
God, right?
So let's play around hypothetically.
Imagine you and me started a cult, but in this cult, it was our religious duty to murder
someone twice a year.
Okay.
And let's just say there's those kids as we've seen in serial killer movies on Netflix and
stuff that like tortured animals eventually actually become serial killers and stuff later
on in life.
They saw that this cult matched the behavior in which they were interested in or the opportunity
to go for that.
I'll give you another example.
Let's just say a man is so interested in having more than one wife.
He can become FLDS and join the Mormon church or become a Muslim and marry four women and
he's the head and he could do what he wants as long as he treats them equally, but he's
got four chicks at his disposal, right?
So I'm saying that this avenue of not marrying in the Catholic church that they've had for
so long, not allowed to just kind of that suppression or it could be that or it could
be the combination of, hey, there's access to kids.
We have a way to, you know, get away with the things that we're interested in doing.
I kind of wonder if it might be both.
I don't know the behavioral side so much of the psychology behind people who do that
and pedophilia and stuff, but it wouldn't shock me that if they're stuck and they have
no other access, but little boys and they're trying to fight this struggle.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I've heard someone say before that it's not, it's like the type of person who is more
likely to like, like become a, you know, drop out of like the idea of ever being married
and like devoting their life as a priest to a church.
That type of person tends to be having issues in their sexuality, which I don't know if
that's true or not, but like.
It might be.
It might explain some of these numbers.
It's all I'm saying.
If it's that prevalent and I mean, it's pretty frickin prevalent.
I mean, it's like, I'm no more shocked about it anymore.
Like I hear about it and it's like, oh, well, that's, that's typical anymore as a count.
We lost count a long time ago.
That's all.
Right.
But anyways, thank you for that messed up talk radio.
Thank you for that.
Super chat.
Thank you Constellation.
Where does Feeney's rank for you in the battle?
Feeney's, I don't know if you know about Feeney's there.
Feeney's is.
I don't know much about Feeney's.
Feeney's is the highest and Hesiod.
Feeney's is like the, Feeney's is the one that comes out of the abyss is uncreated is
the first is the, oh, as the, he's a, I shouldn't say he it's, it's a hermaphroditic God.
It's they, they came out of the abyss and creates nicks and eros and like Feeney's is
like the original all that makes sense.
Yeah.
There we go.
And let's get some, let's get some Wikipedia stuff.
What does it say?
God of creation.
Yes.
Feeney's or proto, Protoganus.
Read the Orphic Cosmogeny one, because that's probably has a good source.
Okay.
Feeney's is often.
Just highlight over where it says that three.
I just want to see what it says.
The number three, the number three next to dualism, I don't see it next to dualism.
Go up.
Go up.
No, no.
Okay.
And then the last word where it says dualism, highlight that, that number two, number three.
Just put your cursor over it.
Russell.
Okay.
So this is from Jeffrey Burton.
Russell, the devil.
So I'm just trying to find the source.
So this is Cornell University Press.
Okay.
So we have a good source.
All right.
Read that paragraph.
I just want to make sure it's a good source.
That's all.
Feeney's is often equated with Eros or Mithras and has been depicted as a deity emerging
from a cosmic egg entwined with a serpent.
He had a helmet and had broad golden wings.
The Orphic Cosmogeny is quite unlike the creation sagas offered by Homer and Hesiod.
Scholars have suggested that Orphism is un-Greek, even Asiatic in conception because of its inherent
dualism.
Wow.
That's interesting.
Chronos is said to have created the silver egg of the universe out of which the first
born deity Feeney's or Feeney's Dionysus.
Isn't this some crazy, like this is some wild stuff right here.
I love it.
I love reading about this stuff, man.
That is wild, dude.
Lord Priapus.
Anyways, thank you for that contribution to the conversation.
It's Feeney's is interesting.
Where does Feeney's rank?
Honestly?
The highest.
Why not?
I mean, what do we compare?
We're comparing a god from the Old Testament, we're comparing Allah from the Quran, we're
also comparing the Buddha, the Brahma, and it's like, okay, yeah, they're all claiming
to be this creator god that's, they're all up there.
What's wrong with Feeney's?
Why can't Feeney's be in the conversation?
Right?
They believed it.
People believed it.
So I'm going to say, yeah, Feeney's is up there.
Feeney's is high up there.
Good, good point.
Thank you for that.
Anyways, let's see what else we got.
Try to see if there's any more comments.
There's a super chat, I think you missed.
Any more brilliant than we, than we are now.
Maybe.
Look, I, you know, I think we do dumb down people and we shouldn't.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Absolutely.
So I'm with that, that comment.
I, I think there's, I can't say than all, but you know, there's, I'd say like today,
there's some people who are just not bright and then there's some people who are brilliant
and in the ancient world is the same way I would say.
Yeah.
What are these things called particles, disturbances in fields that propagate as waves?
Are they waves?
So far you're asking the wrong person, well, I'll keep reading.
You should get Mr. Adair on one day and look into it.
Yeah, he might know.
Heisenberg uncertainty principle, really.
Do you want to know what came to mind immediately after that?
Like I literally am watching Breaking Bad right now and he mentions Heisenberg and I'm like,
Walter White.
Yeah.
This is, this is something I have no idea.
Yeah.
It looks constellation, just so everybody knows, we've seen constellation in the chat
for a while.
It's big into like these wanting to get the science, right?
And I think that that's because it's been so ignored and neglected from the Jehovah's
Witnesses that I think it's made him an impression on constellation.
So like, I don't blame one bit, but I honestly don't know the answer to this.
Yeah.
Disturbances in fields that propagate as waves, I don't even know what that means.
I know it has something to do with like quantum physics probably or some sort of, you know,
at the atomic level, what's going on in reality, and I think that's getting it.
But you're asking, you're asking, are they waves, no, like I couldn't even, I couldn't
even give an answer of like what I thought of like a, like if you ask me something about
the ancient Greeks or like something about Orphism, I can at least give you my opinion,
even if it's not from a scholarly, from a position of like authority, I can just like
guess, I can, I can throw, I can give you an answer that's like something, but this,
I don't know nothing about this.
And now I could call some people.
Yeah.
In fact, I could probably hit up like Lawrence Krauss or Schermer might know, but I know
Lawrence Krauss is a theoretical physicist.
He should know.
And I imagine Adair is aware.
In fact, do I need to do, do you dare me to call Adair?
Call him right now.
See if he answers.
Let's see.
He responds.
Put him on the spot.
I'm going to put him on the spot.
We're doing this.
Everybody.
We're doing this together.
Let's see what happens here.
Hello.
Hey, Dr. Adair, I'm on who wants to be a millionaire and they asked me if I wanted to call a friend.
So I used my call a friend option.
Do you have a spare 30 seconds?
Yes, I do.
Here's the question.
And it's the million dollar question, in fact.
So this is all up to you.
I'll have to split it with you if we win.
Okay.
Here we go.
What are these things called particles, disturbances in fields that propagate as waves?
Are they waves?
And then on Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle?
Really?
Question mark.
All right.
So in the quantum field theory, you can have oscillations in there that don't necessarily
become particles.
The oscillation basically has to become large enough and energetic enough to actually then
substantiate itself as a particle.
So if you look at, like, say the rest mass energy of an electron, you have to have at
least that much energy for an electron to pop out, and actually even more than that
because in the process you get an electron and a positron, the anti-matter form.
So you need twice that much.
But those are details.
So oscillations in the quantum field, yes, particle, not necessary.
You said something about the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, and I think the question was, really?
Yeah.
What was the question?
Yeah, it was.
You should get Dr. Adair on one day and look into it, Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle
question mark?
Oh, yeah.
Really?
Question mark, question mark?
That's totally mainstream modern physics.
Totally mainstream.
And the basic things about the Uncertainty Principle is that the combination of trying
to know the position and momentum of a particle, how fast it's moving and where it's located,
the more you try to accurately measure one, the more uncertainty you become about the
other.
This is an effect due to quantum mechanics.
Well, did we win?
Did we win?
So you mean to tell me that those guys who talk about...
Let me fix the audience so you can actually hear.
Ready?
All right, go ahead.
So you mean to tell me that those people who made that documentary about Saturn and Jupiter
being in the sky and everyone can see it, electromagnetic energy, that's false then?
That is worse than false.
That is at best a hallucination by someone who just wants old ancient texts to fit their
ayahuasca trips.
What is that called again?
What's that theory called again?
What's the theory called again?
Electric Universe.
Electric Universe.
Yes.
Wow.
Yeah.
I love it.
Oh yeah.
It looks like you're getting a half a million dollars coming soon for that correct answer,
Dr. Adair.
All right.
I am going to tell the wife and we are going on all the vacations.
Hey, we got to connect again.
We got to do the same thing.
Absolutely.
There are things coming around out of this world that we need to talk about.
Literally out of this world.
Aliens, correct?
Exactly.
Yes.
I can't wait.
Okay.
Well, man, thank you so much for taking my call and you are live on Gnostic Informant
right now just so you know.
All right.
All right.
Thank you so much, brother.
Take care.
Have a good one.
Bye.
Wow.
What a smart guy.
Heck yeah, he is.
You know, I, when I, it's funny that he brought up the, well, I brought it up actually, but
I just want to, because I, when I left religion to let my, one of the last stands for me was
that Electric Universe theory because it's, it was so appealing to some of you.
Because it, it takes mythology and it tries to say all that stuff Saturn deposing Jupiter
or Jupiter deposing Saturn.
That was an event that happened in the sky.
The ancients saw it literally happened and it was like, this is electromagnetic waves
in the sky causing certain symbols to appear and the ages wrote it down on rock on rock
art.
I remember being so amazed by this stuff.
And then I met, and then I met, what's the other guy's name?
He does a channel.
He debunks it.
I met him.
A few people I met and they, I explained how, how this is just so fringe.
It's the most.
You're talking about the, the Professor Dave.
Professor Dave.
Yeah.
But this thing, the reason why they got me is because these people actually did have
PhDs in certain subjects.
Right.
But they were just going way over their heads.
I mean, it was like Bible scholars trying to be classicists.
It was like, they were going in other fields that weren't theirs and just make them shit
up.
Yeah.
So.
Or Bible scholars become.
And then acting like they know the Bible so well.
And I just use those.
Whatever.
I'm not, I'm not picking on Bible.
I'm just any certain field jumping over to another field.
And they just, they just, they just, they just, they just, they just, they just, they just
any certain field jumping over to another field.
And they were doing all these like huge theories on all these different, they were just like
way out of their, their, their way.
Yeah.
And so it pointed that out to me.
I was like, yeah.
Okay.
Cause there was like, someone has a PhD.
They can really make you think something's true and it's not.
Right.
I agree.
You know, that's true.
Usual.
Thank you for the super sticker.
I appreciate you very, very much.
Very, very much.
Thank you.
Dr. Lucifer says this is awesome.
Yeah.
Dr. Adair really is, um, I met him in person and we actually went to the museum over there
in Boston and it was, he is such a cool down to earth guy, like really amazing.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Great.
Dr. Cheryl, thanks for the comment.
How do the gods of the Greco-Roman world compared to the gods of other cultures, Egyptian
gods and Hindu gods?
That'd be called Karakuni.
Yeah.
So as a, as an amateur, as someone who's not going to be, I could be wrong, but if I
had to just, if you force me to guess, I would say that there are etymologies that do these
somewhat like, so the Hindu gods, for example, you do have this deus petara character, you
have Jupiter and their etymologies are from a common ancestor.
I've been told this by multiple different scholars.
You also have in the Egyptian religion, the pantheons and a lot of the, a lot of the Greek
writers like Diodorus, Plutarch, and on Isis and Osiris really, really talks about this
comment on how the Greeks are actually taking Egyptian gods and borrowing a lot of that
stuff into their stories.
So you have a lot of, so my answer to this question is there's tons of overlap.
Yeah.
Also, they're different.
They're not all exactly the same.
In the Egyptian world, there's different things than the Greek world and in the Hindu
world.
And there's, you know, they're all different.
Of course they're different, but there's also a lot of overlap.
And I love that stuff.
I love reading about that overlap.
I love finding out Serapis, Dionysus, and, you know, those are Egyptian and origin at
least it seems that they co-opted.
Yeah.
But it would be cool if we could have like a panel, if we had like Eastern PhD coming
at this, not from necessarily like a religious background, but like, like they themselves
are just scholars in the field and they're coming from, you know, Hindu, the Vedic or
Hindu traditions and the gods as far back as you can go.
So I think that would be a cool conversation to see.
Absolutely.
That would be awesome.
Yeah.
Let's see.
So I think that's it for Superchats.
I wanted to ask you something about something that you've been doing for a long time.
Yeah.
I can't remember what it was.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
So what do you think?
People who are critical, atheists for example, who, and there's someone in the comments had
a really good point.
I can't remember where it was about the, the, the religious background.
Yeah.
Atheists, for example, who and there's someone in the comments had a really good point. I can't remember where it was about
the this how some of these ideas can be harmful in society, of course
they can be degrading to people who are of
Certain backgrounds or certain genders or a certain race
We acknowledge that and we're trying to combat that stuff
But how do you balance it out with the idea of people who just want to have some sort of comfort and knowing that?
They're they and their family are gonna be taken care of and driven. How do you how do you walk that line of?
being critical but also not
Being like rude to people who just believe in something. Yeah
It's so I have Christians who
Legitimately are believers who financially even are on the patreon who support me and they said man, you're doing God's work
I said this like the past couple days. I'm not even kidding you. They messaged me this stuff. Keep it up
And they're not conservative in the sense that and when I use that term, I'm not speaking politically necessarily
I'm saying their religious dogma is not
strict it is not
Literalist it is not fundamentalist. That's what I mean when I use the term conservative in this context, but
When they're like, hey, I do believe Jesus, but like hey
I just that's my own faith and it gives me purpose and meaning and it helps guide me and it's an instruction for me on how
I love my family. I have no beat
I don't even go out of my way to like mine my target when I'm being critical
Isn't those people they can learn from what I'm saying accept it
But since they're obviously not dogmatist what I'm saying doesn't even offend them
Because they're like, well, I disagree at the end of the day with that cool
And it doesn't hurt their feelings, but if you're dogmatist and you're taking this to the bank
I'll give you an example of a harmful thing that has come up and why we do well
Why I do what I do and you do it too, but you also do things. I don't do in areas exploring things
I don't do with myth vision. I
was watching a
YouTube video by soft white underbelly ever heard of them. Yes
Massive YouTube channel the guy like interviews people who suffer from addiction prostitutes pimps like
Extremists in various ways and one of them was a Ku Klux Klan member
Wow with a purple robe on and he had the pointed hat
He wore the outfit during the interview and he's sitting there. I'm not kidding you this guy's full-blown, right?
One of the interesting things was he was asked. Are you a racist and he said no you think I'm a bigot? No
I'm just proud of my own race now get this a
Ku Klux Klan member will not admit. He's racist. So that tells you when people say they're not
Cannot take their word for it. Yeah, you have to really be like behavior. It's not about like oh, I said it so it's true
It's like your behavior speaks it right well gets deeper because he tells about what happened and how he became one
He was at Walmart somewhere in the south and he was shopping in some other country guy
Just walked up to another white guy, you know hanging out just talking. Hey, brother. Would you like to come out to our barbecue?
We'd love to invite you here and he hands him a pamphlet just walks up to this white guy hands him a pamphlet an
Inventation to come to their get-together their family get-together
And they were having church service. He decided to go he went they were having church service and the pastor was preaching at
this Ku Klux Klan rally on
the weekend
Preaching from the Hebrew Bible about the seed and how you are supposed to be with your own kind
He was using the Bible right to show that Israelites do not need to intermix
And they do not to go after foreign gods and he said because he's he was already a Christian
And he was already someone who had gone to church and he said I have never in my life ever heard a pastor ever
preach from this place in scripture and
It was so compelling based on what I was seeing in the text because I was like this is not in our Bible
Is it he found it in a Bible and it made him so convinced as already a believer in the word of God
That he ended up going why are we not being told the truth about the Bible?
this is taught in our Bibles and
Christians are ignoring the context yada yada yada
So he become became a Ku Klux Klan member
Realizing that the white man in the white race needs to be with it
Like there's all sorts of problems with that alone, but you see what I'm trying to get at like it can be used and weaponized
And it is it is yeah, and so what we're doing is just about think about them the curse of ham
And that's the stuff that you the how do I use that shit? Yep?
Yeah, that's unforgiving like sorry like that is just you that's not that's not cool
Yeah, so that's that's I guess I will says it so we have to follow it
That's you you want that to be that's how you interpret that shit like you know me right right, but yeah
I guess the the conviction of the message really caught his attention
And somehow he was convinced and became literally the dude moved up in the ranks because he's wearing a purple robe on the dang
Video and he was explained. I think he had like a can of dip, you know
He put tobacco in his lip and all I think it during the interview. So anyway, it was just wild road to watch but
Yeah, we want to where is the kuk? Where does the cake come from?
That's um, I don't know the origin history, but I do know that it has its roots in the south
That's for sure
So this is history.com. So look it up
This is I think this is something we should just look at real quick. This is interesting. Do you want to share your screen? Yeah, you see it
Yep, okay
Founded in 1865 the kkk extended into almost every southern state by 1870
Yeah became a vehicle for white southern resistance to republican
Republican parties at that time. Yeah back then the republican party was over the north. It was uh,
Yeah, there was like a slow change over time
Anyways reconstruction error policies aimed at establishing political economic equality for black americans
It's members waged an underground campaign of intimidation and violence directed at white and black republican leaders
Though congress passed legislation during the
Designed to curb clan terrorism the organization saw its primary goal
Reestablishment of white supremacy to fill the democratic
Victories in the state legislature across the south. So 1865 it's smack dab in the middle of the civil war
right
Wow, that's mind-blowing dude. That's it was a Hitler right there
Dude, that's just a wild what our history is dark, dude. I'm sorry. It's dark pretty rough, bro
It's very dark
But uh anyways, yeah, I was like, thank you for this super chat too many coincidences
The spirit world is real. I feel sorry for people who haven't experienced it
Thank you for that super chat. I really appreciate it. Um
The way I would answer this is I've experienced a lot of stuff
And I thought that was the spirit world
Me too
Yeah, and now I now now
With my position that I hold and not denying those experiences those experiences are real
But they don't draw me to saying this is evidence of the spiritual world
But that's after when I was getting close to dying from heroin
I started to look into the brain and know why am I suffering with addiction?
How come I can't beat this? What's wrong with me because I thought I was insane
And it was more of natural sciences of exploring the brain exploring the phenomena of us
Finding out more about our evolution all of that and actually realizing evolution is true
Because I didn't believe that was true either at the time
All of that started leading me down the path of like
spiritual
what is that and
And uh, what does it mean by spirit is the spirit world is real
If what we mean is our experiences we feel our real experiences and that I'm saying is the spirit world
Then I guess it'd be synonymous with saying my experiences were real. Therefore. I call that spiritual
But if that's if you're saying there's another dimension or realm and that somehow
Is proven through my experiences
I'd be very careful because I've seen things even when I was on ecstasy or other substances and stuff
Or even felt like something was going on even when I wasn't on substances things like that and thought
This is evidence of the spiritual but at this point now I realized okay
I was hallucinating on the substances I was taking and in other situations the brain is a powerful powerful tool
Yeah DM DMT is intense dude and if anyone who's experienced that is will say
You can understand why someone would conclude that this is some sort of spiritual world
However, remember
It's only because you took DMT that you got there. There is the there is that
You don't have to even take a substance though to hallucinate into experience. Some people do some people do uh, yeah, right?
But but you're you talking about DMT. I have never done it. I have done other things
I have done mushrooms and things like that. I've done things but
I've I've always been terrified listening to people tell the their story about what happened when they did DMT
It freaks me out. So the Greeks when they took this kaiki on stuff
I'm not saying this is DMT, but right the experience that they discovered that they described is very similar in the sense that
It's life changing
And people after they experience it. This is a common
um
A common response is that no longer feared death
So they would go and they would get initiated and then they would
Experience something that changed them forever and they would no longer and they were saved. It was salvation
Literally, they're safe. Yes. And so
And there's actually a story of a of a guy who was sent by the king of india
To bring presence to augustus. I think it's in like
12 ad or something 12 bc or something whatever who knows?
And so they sent all these delegates out there
Some of them didn't even make it all the way there. Some of them died a few of them make it there
They bring them tigers and and vipers and
Myrrh and frankincense and all these
golds and stuff
And uh, the one dude was one he knew how famous the elizinian mysteries were they knew about it in india
Right, that's how famous
Demeter and bakis was
They're like we knew I want to get initiated in el and it loses those any mysteries
And it was off season. You only go there. It was only two times a year where you can get initiated
And it was it was out of season, but augustus is augustus
He said, all right, I'll make it happen. He's already been initiated, but I'll do it again
So they went to athens and they went to the priest and went to elizinium, you know, they opened it up
this guy got initiated
according to
Nicholas of Damascus who's the main source on this
He immediately jumped into a fire and killed himself after
He was his time on earth was done. He was complete
That's what he saw whatever happened. Who knows what happened, right?
Right the experience that he had was so life changing that he killed himself jumped into a fire
killed himself
It's crazy
So I don't know. Wow. There are people who's I could
That's I'll just touch it on what's the else like you're saying that people experience. It's experiencing it. It's not
You can't convince somebody and that's that's a lot a lot of the stuff that people
Talk about when they're like, um, you know, why why are you? Why do you believe in this religion?
Well, I had an experience. Yeah, that's it. That's what it comes down to
Well, it the one that's how I have a hard time with the people who say oh, I've never had an experience
But I believe it and I'm like
Why you read ancient bulk?
Come on man. At least I have respect
I really have a lot more respect for the person who's like I cannot explain my experiences even if I think
They're appropriating that experience to something that isn't necessarily the driving force of that experience
but
I respect it more than I read an ancient book and if you're stupid
If you're that dumb, you can't just read the gospels and mark and matthew and luke and and paul's letters and know
It's true. Then something's wrong with you and it's like
There's it's almost like a slap of
Disrespect for how dumb people are when an apologist is making the assumption that anyone who reads it knows it's true
Uh, you just got to read it and it's like you mean to tell me you don't have a subjective experience of some sort that somehow
Is confirming this to you
If you're not having that why do you believe it? It makes no sense to me. I can't relate to that narrative, but it
Really makes me question, right?
But yeah, um and and another thing imagine now if I said hey, can you explain your experience?
of
Golden cap mushrooms explain what that felt like and what that was like or explain what rolling on ecstasy feels like
I'll try to use some adjectives to describe this thing
but like
you
I will only
Insufficiently try and you will never be able to know what it's like until you have
Experienced it
And so that is the reality, but those experiences that I had when I was in the faith
Um, they're real experiences, but I attribute them to something different today more in a natural way
Rather than a different dimension or realm or something like that. So anyway
Yeah, so I just wanted to um
Because I know someone someone in the chat's gonna want it. I always get this. What person were you talking about?
his name was
Tharmarsis
I think it is
One second, let me find it
I want by the way little plug immortality key by uh, brian metadescu
He wrote on this and goes into there's an audio book of it as well, but he goes into the psychedelics in the ancient world and how
their fear of death went away after
They would take these initiation
Substances and or whatever the substance was during the time
No more fear of death
Oh, I found it. Okay, cool. I get to show people what I'm talking about. So they don't think I'm making shit up
I always try to at least show people what I'm talking about. You know what I mean?
Yeah, just so they're not like what the hell kind of story are you making up
So here it is right here. This guy's name is zharman
zharmano chegas. Hope I said that right?
so he's uh
strabo
cassius dio
And nicolas demascus. We have three sources for this story
So it's well well cited
Pandian mission nicolas demascus describes an embassy sent by the indian king porous
to cesar augustus
They the embassy traveled with a diplomatic leader on parchment in greek one of its members sermana burned himself alive in athens to demonstrate
his faith
Damascus met the embassy at anteach the monk self-emolation made a sensation at was quoted by strabo
His tomb indicated he came from barri zaga, which is now baruch city of gujarat
near the uh north bank of narmada
It says that
This is what strabo says
To these accounts may be at nicolas demascus. The writer states that at anteach your dafini
He met with ambassadors from the indians who were sent to augustus
It appeared from the letter several persons were mentioned only three survived
He says the rest had died chiefly in consequence of the link at the journey letter was written in greek upon a skim
The import was of it was that porous was the writer
That although he was sovereign of 600 kings
Yet that he highly esteemed the friendship of cesar
Uh that he was willing to allow him a passage through his country
In whatever part he pleased and to assist him in any undertaking
That was just eight naked servants with girdles around their waist and fragment
Perfumes presented the gifts which were brought these presents were hermes born without arms
Whom i have seen large snakes serpent ten cubans high a river tortoise three cubans high
They were accompanied by then a person it said who burnt himself at to death at ethans
This is the practice with the persons in distress who seek escape from existing calamities
And with others prosperous circus as as was the case with this man
Yeah for everything hid there too
Yeah had succeeded with him. So you're right. He had fulfilled everything and then he was like i'm done
Dumb with this crap. Peace out guys. I'm gonna burn myself
This is it right here. Uh based on a different way strabler renders
Modern scholars attempted to interpret a strabler's vision of a combination of two words interpretation the elzinian mysteries whereas
Uh, where is it say that the elzinian?
Yeah, you know, whatever. Oh here it is. Here it is. So deo
Zar maris for some reason wished to die
Of because the cast of sages he was honored to count moved by his ambition
Or in accordance with the traditional cost of the indians because of old age because he wished to make a display
For the benefit of augustus and the ethanians. He was therefore initiated into the mysteries of the two goddesses
Demeter and persepony which were led held out of season on account
They say of augustus who was also an initiate
And he then threw himself into the fire
Cassie is deo
That's that's wild man. I'm telling you the elzinian mysteries were the real deal
They were the real deal. So
Um, you know, I hope that was interesting for some people
Absolutely. Thank you for that super chat yo psych
Usual is back. Thank you for that judaean propaganda can be used to other anyone
2000 years later so crazy
That's true absolutely that is very true and
Yeah, I mean, I mean where where
Where does a lot of these?
Prop a lot of problems come from the idea of like the real like it's really like, you know
My religion said so so I have to it's because this religion is still alive in some form
And and they're still using those sources. So
If you want to know
Like so this is the thing people reinterpret and interpretation changes, but
If we if we were still using Athenian
Literature today like people believed in the Athenian deities and it was a practiced religion
There's xenophobia like big time xenophobic stuff going on in Athenian literature if you go look it up
They are a chosen race like there's a lot of specific very chosen this about the Athenians
If we were using that
And then others tried to kind of reinterpret it over time
But others fundamentalists get back to what the meaning may have said and how it was very
Not what we want to practice ethically morally or even politically socially etc
Um, you could see why there's all this othering that keeps taking place because even if the fangs off of a certain interpretation
Go away. There's still the us first them mentality
we find this with the the
The heresiologists look at how they are toward the orthodox or the uh, the heretics if you will the
Gnostics and the way that they categorize them or
You name it. He then gets used for those who are non-christians, but it was goyim
In oftentimes that was actually meant derogatory
Uh, so you see that with uh, jews who would say prayers and it was rabbi akiva
During uh, like the bar cope. Uh, just after bar cope. But we have an account where one of his students said
A prayer it's written says
God, I thank you. I was not born a woman
Here's the guy praying saying thank you. I was not born a woman and I was not born a goi
So he's thanking god that he is not less than in their mind. I have been to israel. Oh, yeah
Remember what happened at the wall?
Yeah, yeah, yeah women have to go to the small section on the right
Divided from the men men have like the hole under the bridge and all the way inside and in this world
They keep all the torres you can go in there and read the books on the there's this little tiny section
And outside there's no there's no torres over there. It's just a little section
Well, I didn't see over there if there were but I didn't I
No, there wasn't I looked I was I was looking I was did you I was looking to see what was over there
Well, I can tell you remember the women all on the fence tables. There was a they're watching the kids
I was for them to sit down and just chill. Yeah, you remember the the during their bar mitzvah
They're like all the women are on this side. They cannot come to the side of the kids over the fence
And they're all watching their kids
Hello, it's going on over there. I'm like this
Yeah, yeah, but that's that's
This is a problem in many societies. This is the whole point of this discussions
How do you
balance out being critical, but also not being rude and
you know
Other yeah, you know unlike
Being athletic and using a phobic. That's all real stuff. Like which comes why you be careful. That's why you tiptoed
That's why when people go quit being so like no, dude
like like
grow grow a heart
And try to be more empathetic and understand that most jews for example are not even religious
Right. So yes, there are bigoted people in jewish communities and in all sorts of communities
But that's why you try to be even-handed and if all you do
And you know who i'm talking about neil if all you do is focus on jews and their practices only
You might be like you might like hate jewish people or something like dude. Yeah
Come on, man
Right, especially when it's good when you get so conspiracy about it. Yeah. Yeah, it's just I don't know
I don't know. That's in a homeowner topic from our day. I'll definitely definitely planning on tackling some of that stuff
in my channel
That or because people can get way too extreme about it and and not even just anti-cement
Sometimes the xenophobia too because there's a lot of those tons millions of muslims in the world who aren't
fundamentalists
Right. Some reason islam gets the worst
rap
About like if someone's a muslim, it's like
Are they gonna be a terrorist like they get that's that's a real thing too, right?
And a lot of people grew up this way my family
There's this matter for generations my whole family's been muslim, you know
What and now i'm a muslim too like because of my tradition like
What are you gonna? How are you gonna knock that? You know
I I had an experience because my dad was over there during the war after 9 11
and you know, he came back with stories and came back with kind of
Bad perceptions of people in the middle east uh from that kind of experience and um
I remember I got reached out to by a mother and I didn't know these people
I mean like I put my information out there to help drug addicts who struggle with addiction and this mom called me and
I picked up. I don't know why and how she got my number. She she somehow got my number
I pick up and she's just like the sweetest person
I ever knew didn't know anything about the religion at all to begin with she was begging me
To help save her kid's life and i'm like trying to help her find her
Like get her son to a rehab this and that and finally
She did not give up. She reminded me of my mom. Well, eventually
I travel up to new york 14 hours from north carolina pick up her son
From their house drove him to my house
Gave him a room in the house
Fed the guy we one night ryan cooked pork
And he was like i'm so hungry. Just give it to me because he wasn't very religious. Okay, like
Yeah, he didn't case like do this is good. Um, but his family were muslim and
They treated me like I was their son
They loved me like and so
That it melted the hate or that that kind of conception that kind of gets taught to you by your parents in a way
From their own experiences. So sure you go to a war zone
You're going to see ugly and when you see ugly you're going to perceive ugly and you might even attribute the ugly to certain people
Not every one of that people is like that. It's like fundamentalist and christianity
Not all christians are fundamentalists and not all christians are bad or have this mean or
Very nasty view of scripture
And we have to compartmentalize if we're going to live in a world where we're trying to bridge those gaps
But we do want to confront the ugly though. Anyway, we rambled on that one man, but that was a story
That was interesting. Yeah, thank you. It changed my mind. Yeah. Yeah, I I agree
Exactly experiences that can help do that
Super thank you. Uh, i'm nag for the super sticker very much appreciated also as well
Got a couple more and then we can uh, we've been doing this for a little while now
So we'll finish this thing up constellation pegasus. Thank you for the super check compared to what
You can make the bible say
Imagine the hitler youth brainwashing. Yeah, go get the jews and fire up some of some people with an mg 42
Go get some
Well, I will say this a lot and it's not it's not mentioned enough
there's this
For some reason hitlers always described as like he was bringing back aryan paganism
Like just read his own book read his own. He's he's cat. He says i'm a devout catholic
Just saying that is i'm not saying that like all catholics should be condemned for that, but i'm saying like
Yeah, he was fun. He he was catholic like he wasn't
He was using biblical and he even says it in mind calm. He says
You know, i'm doing lord's work and jesus was the first person to
to uh
To to confront the jews
But he's using religious
biblical stuff
To argue his points. Yeah, he does he was critical of the catholic church too. He was talking about how
They're why are they out in africa helping that that helping the poor when they should be helping us
Yeah, he it's just so dark dude that he was saying shit like that in mind calm read mind calm. You'll see it
He had a couple different ideas, of course, i'm sure but but i he did identify with the with christians at least some degree
Yeah, it's crazy. Yeah, that's true. That's true. Yeah, you can't hold
Everyone accountable in one religion of the actions of one person
But it is fair to point out
That that person is a part of this particular world view
You can point it's fair to point that out like you can't just ignore it
But then the same thing like they'll try to the christians that i hear we'll try to go look at the
atheist communist of the world war two and look at how many people died at the hand of people who didn't believe in god and
Things like that right, but is it is it atheism that causes is it right?
as this when you literally had passages
Saying jesus was the first person to confront the jews
Yeah, but where is he getting this? I mean, obviously you see jesus like literally going out reliable
So it's you're right, right, right. It's not it's not like
You don't you don't see like Stalin being like, you know
The first atheist of all time. He was the first person to do that. He's not there. There's no like
They're not getting this from anywhere. It's just they just don't believe god. It's just it's not the same
I don't think there's a comparison there. No, I think when you're reading
John's gospel for example the condemnation of the jews children of the satan the whole nine if you're reading that and you really believe it
You're gonna run into some problems
So I have a heart that's another problem with people who think that the the whole new testament was just invented and created by the jews
to to like
Somehow manipulate goyim and in order to come in it's like there's some big red flags that don't that don't speak that way to me
yeah
Anyways, thank you for that super chat
Seekers says do you guys thank you for super chat
Do you guys see any parallels between eastern orthodox arial toll houses?
And the gnostic teaching on archons confronting the soul after death
I could see where the seekers get in that idea the idea that
That the the soul after death has to go and travel a certain path almost like the the gnostic
Teaching of having to go in and confront and have the angels names memorized to get to the next level and stuff
um
Obviously, they're different, but there might be some common theme
Of the traveling of the soul. I mean look in the ancient osiris or ancient egyptian mythology with having to take the journey on the river
Right, you had to find the path to the underworld
like
And and there's certain weighing stations of like your heart gets weighed and all this stuff if you're going to make it in
So maybe it's a kind of a common thing that people imagine having a journey to get to the destination
What are you there?
I don't know. I mean, I'm not saying they're connected. I'm saying maybe it's like a common thing. I don't know
Yeah, I don't know. That's a good point. I don't know. Um
Aerial what is air? What's the toll houses again?
Look, hold on if you go go to look here share my share my screen. Look at mine
All right, so right here right aerial toll houses
It says uh during this journey the soul passes through an aerial realm
Which is inhabited by wicked spirits ephesians 6 2, you know, the it says that uh
He's the god of this world with the air
The soul encounters these demons at various points referred to as toll houses where the demon then attempt to accuse it of sin
And if possible drag the soul into hell a number of eastern orthodox saints modern elders and theologians have openly endorsed it
But some theologians and bishops have condemned it as heretical and gnostic in origin
Aerial toll houses are part of the particular judgment
And the particular judgment according to christian eschatology is the divine judgment that a departed person undergoes immediately after death in
trans
Distinction to the general judgment of all people at the end of the world
The imagination is amazing
The most detailed account of aerial toll houses is found in the biography of basil the younger
Found in the lives of saints of for 26 of march. Anyway
toll houses
There are 20 toll houses
Though the number is not dogmatic and different sources listing varying numbers on the first aerial toll house
The soul is questioned about the sins of the tongue the remaining are in order the toll houses of lies slander gluttony laziness theft
covenants usury
Injustice envy pride anger resembling evil murder magic lust adultery sodomy heresy
Dude i'm going to hell
Oh my gosh
um
I just wanted to pull something up real quick here. I'm gonna pop us back up. Anyway
I wanted to show what I was talking about about this. Um this
Verse from my oh, let me just put this away. Thank you seeker for that super chat
Uh, can you see my screen at all? Yeah, is it small? Yeah, I don't know why yours does this narrow?
Narrow I might be because of my screen. Um, anyways, it says right here
Where'd it go? Oh here it is. Okay down here the clearest indication of what this religious education can produce is the jew himself
This is from hitlers mind calm. His life is only concerned with this world and his inner spirit is as foreign so true
It's foreign to true christianity as his nature was 2000 years ago the great founder of the new teaching himself Jesus christ
Jesus made no secret of his feelings toward the jewish people and even used the whip to drive his rival out of the lord's temple
Even then the jewish religion was just a means to make money as a business. Oh my god
Dude, this is the person who rose up as a political reader a leader and he's writing this
What was going on in germany, dude?
How would that slide?
Like look at us even even in the even in the but even in the bible. They're all about making money as a business
Christ was nailed to the cross for his intolerance of the jews
While a present christ christian political parties lower themselves in elections by begging for jewish votes. Wow
So as i'm saying they're using this idea
It's us first them mentality and this is we see it in our politics today too, but
Yeah, it's it's it's a great tactic, especially if there is that mythology of the arian
mythos in some way
That might help people think oh i gotta be true to my my kind my people
We've learned a lot since then too even since that all took place
Yeah
And then there's also this famous quote right here. I am now as before a catholic and will always remain so
Now it is it is fair that he might be just playing politics here
Trying to keep the catholics on his side
Because he was very because if you if you actually read mine, he's very critical of the catholics
Right saying that they're lowering themselves for the jews and why are they in africa worrying about africa?
They should be worrying about us
Like shit like that
And so anyways, I just wanted to bring that up. It's interesting because people use religion as a weapon
Yeah, he was definitely doing that
so
It's it's easy to do it. I mean throughout. Yeah, it's very easy to do it
Let's see. Where's I think there's one more left. No, you got you got bill here
Oh, you're looking at him before I am. Oh, yeah, but i'm so used to knowing how to navigate this thing bill bill
Thank you bill bill says jews never force people to convert en masse. That's true
And that is I mean, I mean, I can't say that there weren't
I would just go with the yes, that's true because I I'm not saying there weren't wars that happened obviously
But they weren't their religion was their religion, right? So they're not out here enforcing others to do it, especially not
Not a sword, right?
This is a good question
You were just talking about this. Yeah, so what segregation at the wall. I'm stumped at this. So yeah, there's the women
Go off to the right if you're facing the temple the the wall
The welling wall which the temple mount is on top of that where it would have been where the temple would have stood
This is actually the quarters where the muslims control
The jewish welling walls down below and they have a little tiny wall that you can peek your head over for the women
But on that side over the right if we're facing
So if we're facing my bookshelf the women are over here and like imagine this
Imagine this little this little category from this red book right here
Over that's the women's section. Yeah, the men's section
goes like way
over over
Yeah, you probably have an image to show no this is this is an article from 2016
Because okay, so can you see my my mouse right now? Yeah, there's where the wall is divided
this this there's a
Right here is where the walls. This is the divider the women said the women's is on the other side of this
No, no, no, no, no, that's that that's that's that's that walkway up to where they saw no, it's right here
Yes, okay. Okay. There it is. You're right. You're right. See that's where the chairs are
So this is the women's side right here the men's side is over here
But back here they made a little section men and women can be together in
Oh, okay, just one little set but that just happened in 2016
Okay, I didn't even notice anybody in that section. No, there was no one there because when we went there it was like
Pointless my wife was super uncomfortable. It's not at the wall. It's not at the wall. It's behind its weight
Look how far back they are. Yeah, they're like
We got a well from a distance and that's why I wanted to show this article. It's like
There's two sides
Men side over here the big one and the women's side over here the small one
Yeah, and there's this little section where they're allowed to be together
I don't know
Ryan didn't like that because she loves she wants to experience things with me
Yeah, and she wasn't able to go down to the wall with me
And I went down a few times and she vocalized that I still have that recording somewhere
So at some point I'll probably we're gonna get that up. Yeah
Thank you constellation
So, yeah, thank you for that. And then I think we have
We'll see what we got one more right something like that or is that it you got one right here bill
Bill again, is that the same bill?
Uh, I believe so if not, thank you for the another super snicker. I appreciate it reformed
And this is what they said reformed jews don't segregate the sexes
But most us must must jids do and this is the thing about reformed jews that I love
In fact, this is why when I go and interview with justin sledge and you do too
He calls out the nonsense in his own community. Yeah, you know, and that's a powerful thing
It's good to have people who do that. So
Um, you do have one more. Oh, by the way about justin sledge. He what he's doing is so
important
Because he's he's bringing
He's bringing you scholarly information about religions
And he's giving you the tools to build your own religious mindset religious path
He's giving you the tools to like decide
How to do religion in a in an ancient
Like the real way that the ancients were doing like he's giving you the real knowledge of this stuff
But he's also saying like look
There's different there's different ways to do this stuff. Like here's what these people thought
Here's what these people thought. Here's what the nazis thought. Here's the medieval people the medieval times did this
You're just getting so much knowledge from him that he's he's really he's opening opening things up
So it's not
It's not just fundamentalism or atheism anymore, right? It's between now. That's why I love justin. That's why I love his channel
It needs to be I think he's setting a good example really good example exactly exactly
Seek it seek her 206. Thank you for answering good sirs
Yes, thank you for that
And uh, that's it. That's the last super chat. Um
Yeah, thank you mojo
Derek myth vision podcast links in the description. Last thing I want to say is that the link is in the description for the memesis
and um
Hope you guys check that out. Please do that's it's
I want to hear people's thoughts about it
I think that you're gonna watch it and at least become
Convinced that some of the examples are just too much to not think something's going on
That's my thoughts and dr. Matthew munger who I interviewed earlier today
He said I am a believer in it like he he's convinced that dentists is right
Not all dentists examples, but he is sold that dentists is on to something for sure
Yeah, especially a good chunk of them. But anyways, that's all for today and you have to sustain true no
