Alright, so my final offer. I'll check up on our ex-lipper.
Did you say ex-lipper?
That's right, sir. 16 years behind the bell. I'm proud of you, sir.
What happened?
Oh, cured, sir.
Cured?
Yes, a bloody miracle, sir. God bless you.
Who cured you?
Jesus did, sir.
Dr. Delcy Allison Jr., thank you so much once again.
I always want to remember this as a time in history we've made,
hanging out here on MythVision, and I've learned a lot from you already.
And I haven't even read all your works, so I know there's a lot,
especially going into the detail that you do, I need to read and consider.
Even if I disagree, like I need to know what you think and why,
like you do with all the scholars.
So the question I have about scholars is there's this secret gospel of Mark
that was really controversial, big, big problem,
and I've asked many other scholars to get their take.
I've asked Robert Price, I've asked Dennis McDonnell, I've asked Richard Carrier,
I've asked M. David Litwood just recently, we did a podcast.
Oh, really?
Yeah, and he was going into more detail about it,
but at the end of the day he thinks it's probably a forgery,
and the question is, is it a forgery?
Okay, so the honest answer is I don't know.
Now, I suspect it is, if I had to bet, I would bet against authenticity.
I've published a lot, and sometime in the early 90s I actually wrote an article on this text.
And I assumed that it was maybe a first century text for the purposes of this article.
I'm very happy I never sent that off for publication.
I don't even know if I still have it in my files over there.
But it was a sort of, if this text is first century,
then what could we say, and it had something to do with the formation of the gospel of Mark,
if I remember rightly.
Look, there have been several books arguing that this is a forged text,
and of course the problem with it is that the man who discovered it was absolutely brilliant,
and if anyone could do a forgery like this, he would be the guy,
and it's conveniently not available, right?
The text has disappeared, nobody can find it.
So if we can find it, and it's early, that would be great.
But until somebody can come up with the original,
until somebody can come up with more than Morton Smith's first two books,
his big book and his little book on this,
I'm not going to do anything with this text at all, right?
Now, there have been, I have a friend,
a couple of friends who have written about this,
and they think they can see little signs of forgery here and there.
You know, his name was Morton Smith, and there's salt in the text,
and you know, things like this.
None of that has ever been overwhelming to me,
none of their claims to find proof of forgery.
But just given the origin of the text, you have to be skeptical,
and people do produce still forgeries.
What was the text from several years ago?
The Gnostic text that turned out to be a forgery from several years ago.
I think Karen King had written an analysis of this,
assuming that it was authentic and it turned out not to be.
And I think it was the Atlantic.
Finally, a journalist was able to trace the whole genealogy
and who did this and why and all the rest of it.
But he took scholars a little time to figure this out
and where it came from and who copied it and what they were doing.
But Morton Smith was really a smart, smart guy who knew a lot,
and also maybe a bit mischievous
and had a really complex relationship to Christianity.
And again, if somebody could pull this off, it would be him,
which isn't good for the text.
But for it's discovered by somebody who's not so smart
and not so good at Greek and all the rest of it.
Then you could say, ah, maybe I've got something here.
But so my answer is, sadly, probably not.
Probably not authentic.
Probably not authentic.
And after I wrote that article and thought better of it,
I've not done anything with it since.
Thank you.
Well, why don't you go and tell him that you want to be a leper again?
Ah, I could do that.
So yeah, I could do that.
What was I thinking?
I was going to ask him if he'd make me a bet,
make me one leg during the middle of the week.
You know, something beggable but not leprosy,
which is a pain in the arse.
