Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, your book, the atheist handbook to the Old Testament, is a controversial
book, but it covers a lot of good information, mostly scholarship, critical scholarship even.
We talked about why it's important to know the Old Testament narrative and you actually
do a recap of the narrative and I can't tell you how many times that I messaged you while
I was reading.
It's like, hold on, I read and I didn't notice that and that recap was interesting in the
narrative.
However, why is it important to know the historical background?
I mean, what's the difference?
Aren't they the same thing, Dr. Josh?
Nudge-nudge-wink-wink.
Yeah, so no, oddly enough, a lot of times they are similar, right?
So I guess if you think about it in the way that let's say you had a feud with your neighbor
and he went out and cut your tree down, a tree that was on your yard, but one of the
branches was going over into his yard and he came out and started hacking it down.
If the police came and said, hey, what happened?
The way that you would tell that story is, hey, he came over here and totally unprovoked,
started hacking at my tree, doing it to be very vindictive, what a terrible guy.
He's just awful.
And of course, his, he intentionally put that tree there and made it so that it grew over
here and he mocked me with it.
So the story itself, what is it that actually happened is important to recognize.
That's obviously incredibly simplistic.
But when you think about things like in the Bible, sort of the general rule of thumb is
the further back you go in chronological, in time, as far as the story is concerned,
the less reliable the Bible is, right?
So, you know, if you're looking at something like the Exodus, for example, it's or the
conquest of Joshua, it's very important to understand the history of the period because
the way the Bible presents it, it's supposed to be happening in the second half of the
second millennium, right?
Some people would say it's, you know, 15th century.
Some people would say it's a 13th century, whatever.
In either case, it's supposed to be happening at a time that, you know, Egypt's in control
of Canaan, right?
If you're going by what the biblical text says.
Now, of course, if you take a more, a later date than, you know, Egypt's starting to lose
control, but nonetheless, it's very problematic for, you know, two and a half million Israelites,
not including the mixed multitude that's supposed to come with them to walk out of Egypt in
the 15th or even in the 13th century, wander around for 40 years in the wilderness and
then go into a land that either is directly in controlled, directly controlled by Egypt
or very recently controlled by Egypt and have these stories make sense, right?
So this idea that there are huge walled cities, they're under the control of these great kings,
not tenable, historically speaking.
So if you know that historical background, then it makes the Exodus like, OK, we've got
to think of a different way to understand this.
It's not this, it's not a historical text that's trying to write a hit, you know, that
we should be taking as historically reliable.
So that's something that's older in biblical chronology.
But what about things that are later, first millennium stuff?
You know, once you're in the first millennium, at least, you know, down into the eighth century
and moving forward, maybe even the ninth century, things start to become more reliable, right?
And so like Joel Baden has written a book that talks about David and what is it that
we think about David?
And of course, he would argue that there's contemporary historical tradition that David,
it's coming from David and there's an apologetic that's built up around it.
So, you know, that's an interesting thing to think about, because if the story of David
with, say, Naval, he gives in his book, he gives the story of Naval, the guy that he essentially
does like a what do you call it, like the mob, the mafia thing where you go up to a store
that has this beautiful front window and you say, it's a beautiful front window.
It'd be a shame for it to get completely smashed, but I'll tell you what, for a small
fee, we'll protect this window for your business, we'll look after it and you'll be like, whoa,
wait a minute, what you're saying is if I don't pay you, you're going to shatter my
glass, right?
And that's what happens with David, right?
David has this, some of his men going before him and go to this guy, Naval, and say, hey,
we've been protecting your flock, you know, out in the countryside.
So you should pay us for protecting your flock.
And Naval's like, hi, are you talking about this is like a mob thing, you know?
And of course, then David's men come and eventually, Naval ends up dead and David marries his wife
and gets all his property.
So the way that the text spins that story is, oh, Naval, whose name means full, is this
horrible guy, according to the story, and he's set up as the bad guy.
And David is the, he's the good guy and he's, he's just doing the right thing.
And oh, he's completely blown off by this.
And I've got so terrible as hospitality and to the point that Neval's wife comes out
and says, I'm so sorry for what Neval has done, you know?
So understanding the historical background gives you what can we say about this story?
What makes sense?
What doesn't make sense?
So that's sort of in between, right?
We have a story that's probably got a historical kernel, some contemporary tradition, whatever,
but it's been spun.
Clearly there's some spinning going on.
But then knowing the historical background of ancient Near East lets you figure out
the problems with books like the Book of Daniel.
So the Book of Daniel presents history of the sixth century in a way that you go, do
what?
Like, we know that there are problems with, you know, what Daniel says.
For example, you know, Nebuchadnezzar is cast as the king.
That takes the temple vessels from, from the temple, which is true.
However, his son, Belchazar, which he's not his son, is supposed to be the one that is,
you know, is co-regent with him.
And of course, we know that's not true.
It's Nabonitis.
That is Belchazar's father.
And so the traditions that are clearly supposed to be credited to Nabonitis are being transferred
to Nebuchadnezzar.
And if you don't know the historical background, you won't be able to pick up that.
So it's going on because Nebuchadnezzar has this madness that's attributed to him.
And of course, this is a tradition that, you know, Nabonitis, when he came to the throne
I think in his third year, he just up and leaves and goes out to the Oasis of Tema and
stays there for like 10 years.
Right.
And of course, that scene is terrible by the Marduk priesthood.
It's this crazy, strange thing.
He starts worshiping the God's sin instead of Marduk.
Anyway, the point is that these traditions of his madness, this weird behavior.
We see it at Qumran, right?
I think Joel, I mean, John Collins mentioned this in one of your interviews with him where
he talks about the part of Nabonitis, right?
This is a tradition that clearly is, it's supposed to be correctly attributed to Nabonitis.
And we see that way at Qumran, but here in the book of Daniel, it's attributed to Nebuchadnezzar
or Darius the meat, another example.
So because there is no Darius the meat, right?
And we know from history that it's probably Darius the first that that tradition is supposed
to be about.
So anyway, the point is that you can look at something like the Exodus tradition.
And if you know the Amarna period where these, you know, the history that know a lot of history
from that period, we know that the Exodus and the conquest very problematic, right?
If we know the early part of the first millennium, then we can we can see what's probably realistic
about the David tradition and what's an apologetic and sort of, you know, parse those things out.
But then, you know, something later, like the Neobabalonian beginning of the Neobabalonian
period, you know, if we know the Neobabalonian rulers and what happened throughout that, throughout
that empire, well, then we can very quickly figure out that doesn't make sense in the
book of Daniel.
And that does make sense why it is that it looks that way.
So it's really important to understand just for those three quick examples, you could
see how it's very important to understand even in broad strokes, you know, the historical
background.
So that's why chapter two of the book is dedicated to giving you starting in, you know, the third
beginning of the third millennium BCE, all the way down to really the conquest of Alexander.
So that you have sort of the highlights of ancient Near Eastern history.
And it's it's it's not intended for you to walk away knowing all the history, right?
Because it's a lot of information in there.
And you know, I know Seth Andrews when he when he read the audio book, I mean, and he'll
say it like he said it on Twitter and Facebook several times.
Chapter two is like he said, it's the hardest chapter I've ever narrated.
And it's because it's there are a lot of names, a lot of places, a lot of a lot of detail
in there, not unnecessary detail, not detail that's like really hard to understand, but
it'd be hard to memorize at all.
And that's not how it's intended.
This is sort of meant to be like an encyclopedia in the sense that you read through it, you
get kind of the general flow of ancient Near Eastern history, how it relates to the Bible,
the Old Testament.
But then in a discussion a year from now, somebody says, oh, yeah, the Exodus is totally cool
and it matches history.
And you're like, hmm, something sparking in my mind, let me go back and read that section
on the Amarna period and they go, OK, you know what, dude, this doesn't work.
And if you want to dig deeper, well, I've got the bibliography there.
So now you can go read the scholars that have written on this and get into more detail in
that particular section.
So it begs the question to say for those who are watching, atheists and non-atheists alike,
is something to ask is we're talking about the historical background.
And my question is looking at the Old Testament sources we have, if you were to compare them
to other ancient Near Eastern sources on a scale from don't trust this historically
to this is more reliable historically, you know, where would you place the Bible in that?
Because Christians will try to say, you don't treat the Bible.
They do this all the time.
The New Testament studies I know from scholars who talk to, you don't treat the Bible as
critically as you do these other sources.
And then when you do try to point out, well, look, these other sources have gods and people
and their narratives, they want to act like ours is more historically accurate and it's
more reliable.
But it sounds to me, maybe you are looking at other sources saying, no, we we trust the
Babylonian records on who reigned and when and these things.
What about the reliability of the historical background on ancient Near Eastern sources
and biblical comparing the two?
Unfortunately, it's sort of apples and oranges.
And what I mean by that is, let's take, for example, the reign of Nabonitis and or say
differently, the fall of the Neobabalonian Empire as depicted in the Book of Daniel.
If you go with the Book of Daniel, Dorias, the meat is the one that takes over in 539
and Belchazar is the one that's on the throne.
And so if you remember the story, he's in their feasting, the hand, you know, writing on the
wall, weighed and found wanting.
And in that night, the kingdom is taken from him and Dorias to me takes the throne.
OK, that is a much later text.
Right. The extent copies that we have, if we just go with that, the extent copies that we have,
the earliest ones are from Qumran, right?
And they date to like the late second century.
So the documentation that we have is much, much later, even from the purported event.
So if we were trying to access the if we were trying to do historiography on Belchazar
or the fall of the Neobabalonian Empire, there are other sources that we would use.
Some of those would be contemporary and they're not historiographic sources, even though there are
some of those, you could look at, for example, administrative texts.
So if we ask the question just very, very quickly, Paul Elaine Beaure has, you know,
he did a lengthy study, I think in the 90s or late 80s, talking about the inscriptions
and the life of Nabonitis, the reign of Nabonitis.
And he's looking at everything from when he took the throne all the way through until,
you know, Babylonia fell to Cyrus.
And what he does is he shows through royal inscriptions or through economic texts, administrative texts.
Again, Cuneiform documents in Acadian that we have from the time they date to that
time.
Super reliable.
Yeah. And a lot of these are not propagandistic.
For example, if we're trying to figure out is Belchazar on the throne?
Like Daniel five, six, one, you know, presents.
Well, we have two administrative texts that show supplies going to where the the the prince
is, and he's outside.
He's at least on the outskirts of Babylonia, if not outside of Babylonia.
Well, that's not a propagandistic document, right?
It's not like it's not like a myth or not a myth.
It's not like a royal inscription.
It's talking about how great he is or so.
This is just a it's a text that says, you know, such and such equipment or supplies
being sent out to the prince outside of Babylonia.
Sorry about my three-year-old. It's it's it's bedtime.
That's normal. My kids used to do the same thing.
He's just mad that you're not backing up the biblical sources.
That's that's all it is. Yeah, right.
He's it's it's what Satan, right?
Just call my kids Satan.
That's not what I know.
No, no, no, no, I'm just so when we look at comparing those two,
we have a document that comes from that's been edited and comes from
edited and recopied that comes from, you know,
350 years later, something from doing the math quickly in my head.
So hopefully I'm not wrong about that, but at least three centuries later.
And we have contemporary which is
not without its theological
exactly commitments, right, and and propagandistic purpose.
And then we have these administrative texts,
which don't have that propagandistic function.
They're just like nobody wrote that disbursement thinking, OK,
now I've got to make sure that I show that Belchazar is outside of Babylonia.
Here's how do I spin this?
Not just supplies going to right here you go.
So and there are two of them.
So the point is, I suppose that one
there it's a different genre of text.
It's one that doesn't have this motivation behind it.
And so from a historiographic standpoint,
we it's much more trustworthy that it's representing the data accurately.
So we also have things like
the Babylonian Chronicle, the Babylonian Chronicle.
It's still it's not free from your propagandistic tendency.
So it's it's like on the scale of
straight trustworthiness or believability or something,
you have to sort of, you know, put an administrative or an economic text
over here on really trustworthy.
And then as you start getting into these other documents,
it's like, yeah, it's more trustworthy, it's less trustworthy,
but it might not be like crazy untrustworthy.
You just have to be a little more critical of it.
Kind of like Josephus.
There's some trustworthy, but you also have to go when's
where's his religion coming in and where is he just saying?
And there were 50 soldiers that traveled that road.
That's right.
And this is this is why historiography is not something that's easily done.
So I guess what I would say is that we have to be able to
not only understand the genre of the text that we're using
to try to reconstruct history, which is an imperfect song.
It's like it's it's it's because it's an art form.
Right. I mean, it's not it's this isn't like there's no processionalism here.
It's not like it's an art.
It's not like it's a strict science or something.
So you have to be able to identify the genre of text.
But then you also have to understand like the date, you know,
what has the contemporary isn't much later as it been copied and recopied, whatever.
All these things factor in.
And so it certainly last thing.
You know, we have documentation like royal inscriptions
that are close, I would say, to the genre.
Royal inscriptions, basically what these things are is, you know,
something, a text about a king and something that he's done,
be it going on a campaign or, you know,
dedicating an object to a temple or to a deity or rebuilding a temple,
whatever, and they write about that.
So short royal inscriptions could be like
for and Nana, his lady, Shulgi, the great king,
the king of Sumer and or dedicated this object.
Right. Now, there are certain things about that that and that one's pretty short.
So it's not really problematic.
But if you have one like Sargon's eighth campaign
and Sargon is talking about how he fought against Urartu
and he ran ahead of his army because they were holding it back
and he cut through the mountaintops single-handedly and slay, you know, it's like,
OK, so what can we say about that?
We could say was there a battle with Urartu?
Probably, right?
But did he go single-handedly like a deity
ahead of his army because they were slowing him down?
No, those are two sort of extremes in analyzing that.
And then a lot of things fall in between.
And so the same thing is true with something like the story of David and Naval.
What could we say is probably the historical
you know, these things that we can say, yeah, this probably happened.
This probably happened.
And one of the things that we say, that's an apologetic, right?
So I think it's just a lot of times on a case by case basis.
But the key is you there are certain texts.
That you're safer taking them at face value.
And there are other texts that you just can't take at face value
because they're doing something.
And if a text is doing something.
Either theologically or ideologically.
You've got to be able to take a step back and say, what is the text doing?
And then how do I make sense of the data that's in that text to come away with
either the kernel of historical reality that it represents
or the historical data that we can reasonably rely on?
Thank you, Dr. Josh.
