How do I know the Bible tells me so?
Every Christian that I've ever met that's a serious Bible believing Protestant type of Christian
will say these words at some point in their life. I know I did.
And today Thomas Westbrook joins me, the owner of Holy Kool-Aid.
He was once drinking the Kool-Aid as well, but he has a series going on right now.
You know how the Bible history fails? Nothing fails like Bible history.
And he delves into scholarship just like we do at Myth, Vision, Podcast.
He's a brilliant mind. And I really appreciated this interview because it tells us sometimes
are we going too far when it comes to skepticism? Is there not a balance?
Are we not allowing the Bible to be treated the same way we do other history? I don't know.
You be the judge of that.
We are Myth, Vision. Welcome back to Myth, Vision, Podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert.
You guys see who's on the show. Holy Kool-Aid, baby. Thomas Westbrook, man. What is up?
Welcome to Myth, Vision, brother.
Thanks for having me. It's good to be here.
You too. Love your show. Everyone watching right now. Take just five seconds, please, for me.
Go down. Subscribe to his channel. Check out his content. I know that you'll love it.
It's really, really wonderful. It's in the same vein of what I do.
He's been around a lot longer, of course, and he has a large YouTube following.
So make sure you guys go subscribe. I love what you do, Thomas. If you don't mind,
you have a similar background to me in the sense that we were really Kool-Aid drinkers.
I literally picked this up before the show. I was like, look, if I'm going to do a show with
Thomas, I've got to have a chalice that is going to mimic your chalice and your intro.
You got me one up. I'm just drinking water. I'm trying to compete with you.
The whole point is to not drink the Kool-Aid, which is why it gets knocked over at the beginning.
That's a good point. Your logic is going to be flawless.
I was going to put skepticism in the cup, though. I was trying to...
That's a great point, Thomas. Does skepticism come in liquid form?
I would hope. I would hope. I don't know. It comes from Starbucks,
so I just pour that in there and then we're good to go.
Thomas, tell us a little bit about you. What do you have coming up first?
And then I'll be interested in hearing some of your story if you don't mind,
but I don't want to just dwell on that because I'm sure I have a lot in common.
And if you are watching, try to see if you relate. But what do you have going on?
How can people help support what you do? And then we'll go from there.
Well, first off, as far as what I do, my channel takes complicated ideas,
whether it's related to science or history. There's a lot of pseudoscience and misinformation
and stuff that's out there floating around that we've all encountered.
And I like to take ideas and break them down, figure them out, research them,
and then compact it in a laser-focused way for people to wrap their heads around and understand.
So if I see something in the news that I'm seeing competing messages on a particular issue,
or if I'm reading and studying holy books and they're saying one thing,
and then scientists are saying something else, I want to know why.
And so I try to get to a point where I have an aha moment where I'm like,
oh, that makes sense. That's how we know that that's the case.
And then package that down in a way that I could explain to me from a week ago,
so that if in that time period, I had that aha moment, I'm like,
I want to bottle up those aha moments and share them out for other people.
And I do it with visuals. And I do animations and stuff.
And I try to keep my videos around 10 minutes or less.
And unless it's like a long form interview.
Like the recent long form, that was really good.
Yeah. So that's what I do. As far as upcoming stuff,
I've been I've been following the evangelicals who prophesied that Trump would win a second term.
And it's been fascinating watching them double down on it, even even up until like this last month.
And they keep pushing back the prophecy and giving excuses why it didn't work.
And I would normally just, you know, kind of, it's like,
this is nobody, I'll just look the other way.
But these are people who have hundreds of thousands.
And in some cases, millions of followers, there's an entire network
called the Kenneth Copeland network.
And they have like Victory TV and stuff that have huge reach entire, you know,
TV stations and stuff that are just blasting out content on, you know, a ton of different shows.
And they're swaying elections.
They're getting people to vote based off of this is God's chosen candidate.
And, you know, that's what they're saying.
And they're spreading a lot of misinformation and harm.
And so I figure that it's, you know, if we don't call them out and, you know,
kind of show some of the stuff that they're saying, both the harmful stuff,
as long as the stuff that's flat out just wrong, then, you know, if we're not doing that,
then people tend to just kind of by default, just be like, oh, yeah, you know,
that kind of meshes with what I, you know, heard in church or what I read in the Bible.
And so I'm just going to go with it.
And I think that that's incredibly dangerous.
So I'm calling them out of being, you know, kind of following them for a while.
And then I've also been kind of diving deep into history and looking at the past and like,
you know, with the Bible, you know, is it historical?
Not, not, I haven't really gotten to the New Testament yet,
but I've been going through things like the Exodus and, you know, Joshua and the Tower of
Babel and, you know, working my way through it and trying to do it at a deep level where I'm
actually, you know, talking to experts and I'm actually looking at what archaeological finds have
found and what we can interpret from them and, you know, what's a stretch, you know,
what's more likely legend, what's more likely myth and what bits are actually historical
because there are pieces in the Bible that are, that have historical basis.
That's well said. And I 100% in the same vein with you on trying to uncover what's myth,
legend, what's reality, what's going on here and how, how can we know?
I love the Sodom and Gomorrah point that you brought up. You had the little mountain, one
guy's like, this is it. And it's all like natural sedimentary, like, you know, this just naturally
happens. There's no way that's, that's from lava or there's fire from the sky. And there's always
someone out there trying to force the biblical narrative to be true or a place or a thing.
And so I really appreciate what you do. Your long format video you did unearthing the true
origins of the Bible was absolutely fascinating. You did that with the Religion for Breakfast
channel host. And I really, really appreciated that.
Yeah, you know, when you brought up the Sodom and Gomorrah video, and it's,
it's fascinating because when it comes to biblical claims, a lot of times, you know,
you have people who are like straight up literalists. Everything is 100% true. The
earth was created in six days. There was a worldwide flood. You know, people will
buy into all of that, you know, just hook, line and sinker. And in the case of, you know,
Ron Wyatt, he was a literalist, but he also had no archaeological training. He had no
experience whatsoever. He's a known con man. And he would literally take experts and like,
you know, film them and then quote mine, something that they said to make it seem like
they supported him. And there's even emails afterwards of them coming out and saying like,
no, this wasn't defined, you know, and they would denounce him afterwards.
And you know, there's multiple experts that have done that. And so it's just not only dishonest
tactics, but it was also like someone with no experience. He's not going in and doing an
archaeological dig in Sodom and Gomorrah. He's not using like ground penetrating radar or like,
you know, satellite imagery or anything to like, I mean, he might, he might have like
a flyover shot, like one image and he has no experience in like actually analyzing this data.
And but he's, he's coming in and just going like, Oh, look, I found some sulfur. And it's like,
yeah, sulfur is very normal and natural. Oh, I found this flaky soil. It looks like ash. It's like,
no, it's the process of the Dead Sea as it evaporates, it's layering down these sediments
that are incredibly flaky. And geologists will tell you exactly like how it's made and what it's
made out of and stuff. And so that's the one extreme end of the spectrum is those people who
just they have no experience. They're just coming in, you know, with this bias and saying, Oh,
look, this, this, this, this, this, this, it's all, you know, this biblical site. But you have
people all across this spectrum of, you know, kind of in the middle, you have a site called,
you know, Bob Edra, which it's, it was a real city. It wasn't just sediment deposits. And there
were parts of the city that showed fire damage and there were mass graves. And it's like that
seems and it kind of seems to fit the area in the region of Sodom. And there's a sister city
that was also ruined or in ruins. And it's called Numaira and they're like, maybe this was Gomorrah.
But you start digging deeper and you realize that like they're, they were destroyed at the
wrong date. They were destroyed several hundred years apart from each other. You know, they continued
occupying these cities even after the, you know, the, the burn layers after that destruction, that,
you know, these tombs, these mass tombs, they weren't just for this city. They were from like
the entire region. And it was kind of an area, like a sacred burial area that people would come
and bury people. And all of these bodies were laid trust over the course of like hundreds and
thousands of years. And they changed the style of burial throughout that process. It wasn't just
that there's this one mass grave of people burning up in fire. So that's kind of in the middle.
And then you have another site, Tal El Hamam, that's, you know, a better candidate. And you have an
actual archaeologist going in and saying like, Hey, this better fits the biblical description.
But he's still, he's starting with the Bible. He's looking at the Bible and saying, Okay,
the Bible says that there was a city in this area. So I'm just going to go and look in this area for
a city and then try to cherry pick and find anything that fits the data. And it, it leads to some
really biased interpretations. Like finding a city with fire burn, like this city was burned
with fire. Any rated city is probably going to burn. So, you know, how do you, yeah, there's
well, and he, he looks at the city and he says, Hey, look, it looks like this city was destroyed
in some sort of like meteor event, like a meteor, you know, crashing into the city or something.
And it's like, Okay, cool. Like maybe there was maybe like, maybe there was a meteor that hit a
city. And maybe that was the inspiration for the biblical city. But that's not like, that's not
an unnatural thing. Like there, there are meteors that hit this, the earth all the time, you know,
or asteroids or whatever, you know, like depending on the size of it. And, you know, so it's
for, for him to say, Hey, there was a city that was hit by a meteor. Therefore, God hates homosexuals.
And, you know, that was, and, you know, these angels came down to warn lot who fled and all
the stuff. It's like, that, that's a stretch. And even then he looks at this city and he says, Oh,
my gosh, we found this baby in a pot buried in the floorboards. And it's just a sign of how
evil and wicked this city was because, you know, here's this baby. And like they were probably
performing some like ritual human sacrifice on this baby. And then you started actually looking
at the context of it. And it's like potted burials were very much the norm throughout this entire
region. It wasn't cannibalism. It wasn't human sacrifice. It wasn't like this evil demonic
thing, you know, Hey, I'm going to kill this baby in hopes of getting better crops and like
bury it in the ground to have some, you know, magic ritual. It was literally like you lost your
child. And it's sort of like how in the States, you'll have grandpa in an urn, you know, the ashes,
you know, on the mantle place, you could come along and be like, look at how sinful these people
were. They burned their grandparents alive. And it's like, no, you have to understand the context
like this. There's regions all around this area all the way up into Turkey. Like it wasn't just
this city. Like if, you know, if he's using this to argue that like this city was so evil that
God destroyed it. And then he's showing this as his example. It's like, well, why didn't all these
other cities get destroyed when you've got this practice in Mesopotamia and Canaan and Turkey
and like all these regions have examples of, you know, buried, you know, burying their infants in
this urn, you know, it's, it's just the fact that a trained archaeologist could make such a blunder
and just do it with such a bold face confidence, arguing that this is proof of the Bible, just
it blows my mind. Can I poke here? I think this is important because anyone watching
who believes in the Bible is going to say, Thomas, you hate the Bible. That's all. Just, just admit
it. You just don't want it to be true and you hate it. But I want to ask Thomas, didn't you believe
these stories at one point? Oh yeah. I not only believe them, but like there are parts of the
Bible that like I still believe I still think are historical. Right. You know, I don't believe in,
you know, these grand miraculous accounts, but I don't think that there's nothing that you can
learn from the Bible. You just toss it all out. Like I'm trying to, I'm, I realized like everyone
has a bias, but I like I try to come at it from the approach of like, what can I learn from this?
What value is there to be found? What is historical and what isn't? And the problem is there's so
many different, like if, if you start to study through history and you start to, you know, look
at both the archeological record and the historical written record, you start to realize that there's
a lot of things that are written down about, you know, grand myths and legend, you know,
you've got the Iliad and the Odyssey and, you know, all these, these legends of Odessius,
you know, traveling around and facing these monsters and encountering gods, you know,
you have the Epic of Gilgamesh, you've got all of these, you know, ancient Egyptian myths and stuff
like is really common. It's really, really normal for humans to come up with these grand narrative
tales of, you know, these epic things that their ancestors did and why, you know, that's their,
you know, they, they inherited this greatness from these incredible demigods. And so for the
Bible to come along and do something really similar, and oftentimes borrow the deities of
the surrounding area, you know, like in Canaan, the God El or El, was the, he was the head of the
Pantheon and that sort of got incorporated into the, the Jewish tradition. You'll, you'll hear
them talk about like Elohim or El Shaddai, you know, and it's, it's very much a kind of the same
God. And there was also a God, you know, Yahweh that was the, the God of the Shasu. And it was,
that is the name of the Jewish God. And, you know, Christians could look at that and be like,
oh, well, obviously these were people who worshiped the one true God and he always was the one true
God. But when you start to kind of step back and get a bigger picture, look, you realize that like
polytheism was really, really common throughout this, this region. And then you started having,
you know, a monotree where there's sort of like multiple gods, but one is like supreme. And then
you have, you know, monotheism where it's just one God. And you see this gradual evolution and
this gradual transition. And I'm like, what makes more sense that humans like to create stories,
they like to try to search for explanations for things, and that they will create these deities
and create this, this grand, you know, legendary narrative around events that oftentimes may have
had like a few seeds of truth or a few, you know, seeds to, you know, for the origin of the story,
but then get blown out of proportion. We see this too, you know, later on with characters like
Robin Hood and, you know, St. George and the dragon and stuff. And no, there probably wasn't
the giant dragon, but there very well could have been some dude, you know, who was some knight
that did something, you know, or I don't know, King Arthur, or you can get into Paul Bunyan.
Was there really lumberjacks that were, you know, Johnny Apple seed, right? And I love that,
that you're doing that. That's, that's what I'm trying to do. Like I enjoy doing this. And,
and, you know, I think at some point I'll have the biblical stuff down pretty good to go outside
of it and let's nail the Greeks. Let's nail, you know, in far more depth. But you, you believe
this at one point, just like I did. What kind of a background of Christianity do you have?
And then what happened? What was it that woke you up? I'm sure it wasn't just like everyone,
it was like a gradual. Yeah, I've, I mean, I've, I've, I tried to condense down my
deconversion process and it was like a 17 minute long video. And that was the short scripted version.
But if, if I can do it kind of on like a post-it note, I was a young earth creationist.
I was a missionary kid. I was a youth pastor, church camp counselor, like the whole nine yards
worship leader, you name it. And coming from that background, I, you know, I bought into it all
literally. I thought that the, I was, like I said, young earth creationists, I thought that evolution
was a lie. The earth was created in, you know, six days at 6,000 years old. The flood happened,
like all of that stuff I believed. And it was sort of as I was getting into college, I started,
I was, I started dabbling in different scientific areas and then kind of learning more about,
you know, evolution, about, you know, big bang cosmology and, you know, astrophysics and,
you know, the age of the universe. And I started understanding why scientists say the things that
they do and how we know the things that we know and what experiments show it. And I also started
asking myself, if the biblical narrative, the young earth creationist narrative is true,
what results should we get from these experiments instead? And what experiments could we do to
demonstrate that, you know, this is the case? And I just, I found that the, the religious,
especially the, the literalist religious narrative was incredibly unsatisfactory. So I did actually
shift for a while. I shifted from a lot of times I'll get accused of like, oh yeah, you were a
young earth creationist and then you just threw that out and you went full atheist. And the truth
is I actually gradually went from young earth creationists to, well, I, I don't believe that
there's evidence for a young earth. But I think that, you know, evolution probably happened and God
was, you know, the catalyst that set it in motion. And that there's still probably a lot of truth in
these narratives. I still believed in miracles. And then I slowly started like, no longer believing
in angels and demons. And then I was like, wait a minute, if there was no Adam and Eve,
and there was no original man, because like evolution doesn't work like that, you don't just,
it would be sort of like saying that, you know, your, your parents only have, you know,
a boy and a girl and then they die off. And then that couple has a boy and a girl and they die
off. Like there's never a point where there's just two couples on planet earth. There's populations
that at scale are massively, massively like spreading out and reproducing and stuff. And
even then there's no dividing line between, just like there's no dividing line between like when
you're a child and when you're an adult, like you can kind of arbitrarily say midnight on your 18th
birthday, but like that's, that's so nonsense. Like everyone is gradually growing up at a different
rate. And, you know, we develop neurologically at a different rate and emotionally and, you know,
in terms of maturity. And so just like you can't put up an exact spot on like when you stopped
being like a two year old and suddenly became a 30 year old, you can't put an exact linear, you
know, dividing line between like, you know, okay, this is exactly when we were, you know,
this species and this is when we became this species. Because, you know, everyone is able to
reproduce with not just their generation, but the previous and the next generations too, assuming
that you're still fertile, like there's nothing stopping you physically in terms of, you know,
the sperm and eggs don't work together. Like that's always the case. It's just a really,
really, really slow process until you start actually seeing as they evolve, like you start
seeing higher failure rates of, you know, implantation and, you know, fertilization and whatnot.
And, you know, delivery and you start seeing various things that cause with like ring species,
for example, they, you know, when two species will be separated for a while, then they may be able
to reproduce with every other intermediate kind of species between them, not species, but there's
like gradual changes, but then they can't reproduce with each other. Right. And so you can kind of
trace it all the way back around the circle. And it's like this, it's a really clear example of how
one species kind of becomes two until they can no longer reproduce with each other,
but they can reproduce with the previous ones all the way back around. And it's...
Arn Ra did a little, did you see Arn Ra's little micro macro evolution video recently?
No, I don't think I have. It's actually pretty well done. I was, you know, he's obviously
dealing with the young earth creationists that deny evolution. They say micro evolution is true,
but macro evolution ain't true. And of course he's like, no, thank you. Let me...
That's like saying I believe in drops of water, but not oceans. It's like, well, how do you think,
what do you think happens on, you know, big time scales with lots of small changes? You get big
changes. Like that's... It's not a difficult concept. And so for me, it was like realizing
that I was like, okay, so there's never a clear dividing line where it's like, this is the first
human. And there's also never a point where there's just two individuals on earth. And so
that means that there was never just an Adam and Eve. There was never just two people. And so there
wasn't an original sin moment. There wasn't a, you know, garden of Eden, eating the apple,
did some terrible thing and fell. Now some people would argue, well, you know, yeah, but
we're still... It's not this literal inherited original sin. It's just we're imperfect and we've
kind of, you know, evolved imperfectly. But then I'm like, then why would anyone deserve hell?
And then people are like, well, hell doesn't really exist. I'm like, okay, so now you've
gone from, you know, evolution is real, hell doesn't exist. There's no such thing as original
sin. What's the point of Jesus again? Like, why do I need... Like, if I'm not broken and damaged,
then why do I need original sin? And then at the same time, there's nonsensical concepts in the
Bible. Like, why is it that sin is inherited, but salvation isn't? Like, that's a pretty dick
move on God's part. Like, if that was true, if that was true, you can't have a system like that
where there's this eternal punishment for finite crimes, but then salvation is not inherited,
but sin is, and you're set up for failure, and then call that God, this, you know, all-powerful
omniscient, all-loving God. You know, that's where, like, everything started to kind of
break down. And I was like, okay, this doesn't make sense. But maybe there was a first cause.
And I kind of slowly, like, as I started getting a bigger picture of, like, how a biogenesis works,
or at least, like, the way that it could work in theory and the lab tests that have been performed,
it's like, the pieces to the puzzle started coming together. And it's like, you may still
have a few missing pieces where it's like, well, science can't explain this. But just like, if
you have, like, a thousand-piece puzzle and you have a few missing pieces, you can still tell,
like, this is a picture of a mountain. And that's not a God of the gaps argument. That is a scientific,
we have good theory, obviously, behind this, not a God of the gaps argument. They'll say, that's a,
that's an evolution of the gaps argument, but we'll leave that for later. I don't know how you
fit all that on a post-it, though. That was a little verbose. I apologize.
You're fine. So here's a good question to ask in light of that, because Genesis is an interesting one.
When you started discovering this, for me, I guess this was just my own personal, like,
everyone has a different thing. Some people de-convert and they say, I'm done with the book.
Like, I'm done. I'm just going to become an activist for human rights and, like,
get rid of superstition and they want nothing to do with this book. For me, I wanted to know what
it was since I always believed it was something. I wanted to know what, where did this come from?
Like, how did this magic trick, you know, David Blaine, the magic trick happened to me and I
believed it. I was suckered into it. Like, what was the magic behind it? And now I want to know
how David Blaine does the trick and where does the trick come from? Did you have the same kind of
interest? Yeah. And it's really hard to be that obsessed with your faith and your religion for
that long and then just kind of quit and leave cold turkey. Right. When every single morning,
as a kid, you are raised with this book and you are taught that this is truth. This is gospel.
And you study it and you memorize big sections of it and you, you know, you know, all of the
different arguments and all the different verses and, you know, you learn it inside and out. And
then all of a sudden you realize that like, you've been very much misinformed your entire life on
not just scientific topics, but history and other stuff. Like it's, you know, and morality and social
issues. Like there's so many things about it that you kind of have to, if you want to figure yourself
out when that's become such a huge part of your identity, you have to learn how to deconstruct
it. And I want to know how the world works. So I will study, you know, science and, you know,
psychology and neuroscience. I'll study, you know, physics and, you know, cosmology and stuff. And
I'll try to kind of learn, you know, human biology. And then I'm trying to kind of understand all of
that while at the same time trying to figure out like, what was it that caused this religion to
take off? Why do so many people believe it? You know, are there elements of truth in it? What can
we learn about humanity and about society and the way that we think? What can we learn about,
you know, human history? And, and I think that it's been very therapeutic and helpful, helpful for
me as I've been going through this process to know like what parts of it are and aren't true.
Because even when I was, you know, going through and studying the history of this,
I knew that my science education had, you know, had some major flaws in it, because, you know,
it was, it was based on this biblical perspective. But I didn't realize just how much of the history
was wrong until I started diving into it. And I still thought that, you know, there were large
elements of the Bible and the, you know, biblical history that I was like, yeah, this is 100% how
it happened. And then I, as I started diving into the history, I realized not only have I missed
a huge chunk of incredibly important human history, you know, I learned at a very surface
level about like the existence of the Babylonians and the Sumerians and stuff, but I hadn't really
dove into it. I couldn't tell you the first thing about, you know, Acadia, you know, I couldn't tell
you about, you know, the history of like, you know, human writing. And I'm sure I probably
learned some of this stuff, you know, in high school, but, you know, you forget things over
time. But a lot of the stuff that I learned was just, you know, this is the great kingdom of David
and this is the unified kingdom of Israel. And this was the great empire in the region. And now
I'm going back through and I'm realizing like, there wasn't a huge great empire, like maybe there
was a little bit of one in like the Northern Kingdom with like Hezekiah or something. But like,
there wasn't air with King Ahab, but there, there wasn't, I think Hezekiah might have been Judah,
but King Ahab had like a kingdom in Northern Israel that's like attested to in the archaeological
record. But you don't see this pan out in a way that, you know, the Old Testament is like,
these are God's chosen people. This is the great kingdom that God has set up to prosper.
And it's almost embarrassing if that's God's chosen kingdom that he's going to bless and
prosper, because you look at all of the surrounding kingdoms, it's like the Hittite empire clobbered
them, the Egyptian empire clobbered them, like the size of these empires, you know, like the
Assyrians and the Babylonians and the Persians and the Greeks and the Romans and the Seleucids and
the Ottomans and the, you know, every single group that has come and invaded and taken over this land
has been more powerful, wealthier, you know, larger in every single metric, has just
trounced them and put them to shame. And so I don't want to lose your track. Please try to
pin that because this is important what you're saying here. Of course, an apologist will say,
duh, he, he chose this little nobody. They do say, you know, that God chose this little nobody
out of all the peoples of the earth. This is the chosen people that they're not really that big.
But I wanted to just take this experiment and tell me if you see things the same way I do. And
maybe I'm overdoing it. So I'm interested in your correction on this. I did an analogy the other
day on three things that debunk Christianity with a guy who's an ex-Johovist witness. And one of the
things he asked me when we talked about the God of the Old Testament was he has a problem with God's
moral, morality, which we all, anyone who looks at the slavery, the condoning of such things,
the women, the sex slaves, you name it, it's horrible. And of course that's looking at it with
modern context, but I think our morality is better than God's. But anyway, when I looked at Israel
or Jerusalem, Israel, if you want to call it a united, united monarchy, I don't care. You can use
the narrative, right? Even if the history doesn't match it. Playing with the narrative, the fact
that the Egyptians, the, the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Medes, the Persians, the Greeks,
the Selysids, the Romans, all of these people conquered them. And why? Their excuse is we
should have been more obedient to God's law. We should have done what God told us to do. But
because of our disobedience and not doing what God said, our father, so to speak, all this
punishment, the raping of our women, the destruction of our people, the death, the famines, the,
you name it, God sent that on us because we didn't obey him. And the analogy I used was,
I'm a father and I tell my children that I'm supposedly, that I supposedly love,
hey, clean your bedroom. Every Sunday, rest, or every Saturday, rest. And some of those
Saturdays, they don't rest. Well, a mob, angry mobs walking down the street and I say,
hey guys, come in here. I've got some disobedient kids. I want you to go in here and slaughter them,
teach them a lesson, or come in here and do, and I don't even want to use words for the sake
of the algorithm on YouTube. You can only imagine the grotesque, horrible things I could say.
That is a picture I have in my head of the excuse that they give for why they're in these troubles
every time and cognitive dissonance and they keep on going with it. Just like you talked about
earlier in this same show, you talked about, I believe it was not before we hit record,
where people are still believing Trump is going to come and reign cognitive dissonance
in this belief of this apocalyptic or revelatory thing. So I don't know if you know where your
pen was left, but do you agree with that kind of mindset and that view of what we're seeing?
Yeah. And that's where, what I was saying a second ago was how this region,
this people group, it's not this great empire. So all of these promises of just how incredibly
they're going to be greater than the stars in the sky and the sand on the ocean.
They're God's chosen people and he's going to give them this land. And then for most of history,
they don't actually even own that land. They're completely under the boot of the surrounding
kingdoms. So you see this and it's like, okay, why is it that God will make these promises of,
oh, you have pleased me for this sacrifice where you burned a goat and you did these
things that made me happy. And so I'm going to bless you to your, not to your children's children,
but to the 10th generation. And then you have a couple of generations later, oh, but so and so
displeased me. And so I'm just going to wipe you out. And it's, again, it's utterly nonsensical
from the standpoint of, like you were saying, if this was a loving God who could come in and
you'll correct them or something. And instead it's like, I'm just going to, you know, kill you and
slaughter you because I'm upset. And it's the same type of thing as the world. It's like the
temper tantrum of I'm going to flood and drown everyone on planet earth to teach them a lesson.
And it's like so much for loving, caring, like, you know, infinite mercy, you know, trying to
save people is like, nah, I'm just going to slaughter all of you guys and start over. It's
like, well, what about the kids? What about, what about the animals that suffered and drowned?
What about, you know, in the story of the, you know, the Exodus you have
is that this people group is enslaved for hundreds of years. And yet they're God's chosen
people. There's no mention that like, oh, they fell away. And that they were, you know, this
terrible, you know, people that were worshiping other gods and doing these horrible abominations.
And therefore we're enslaved. It's like, no, they just moved down to Egypt to get some food.
And God's like, oh, yeah, I just, you know, it was a Sunday for 400 years. I'm snoozing.
And they end up as slaves. And it's like, well, is that just for God's glory? Well, like,
what kind of a incredibly egotistical dad would I be if I was just like, oh, yeah, my,
my son, you know, suffered in slavery for, you know, most of his life. But then like,
I brought him out of there like a good old dad after sitting around for decades knowing it was
going on or like Job. Yeah. And it's like, oh, I gave him a new one afterwards. I did that for
my glory. It's like, are you serious? Like you're, you're omnibenevolent, loving, compassionate,
in name only, like you cannot claim those, those traits and those attributes and people are like,
well, who are you to judge God on? Like, who am I to judge God? Well, one, if your Bible is true,
then I made in the image of God. So I absolutely, you know, have the ability to wrap my head around
these concepts and judge right and wrong. And also you claim that, you know, oh, we, we ate,
you know, from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. So like, I have that knowledge, right?
Like, so I can judge what's evil and I look at the actions that God is doing and I'm like,
that's straight up evil. So it's, and obviously, you know, I don't believe these stories, but
I can look at them and see the internal inconsistencies and say like, this doesn't make sense. Like,
if you're going to try to convince me that this is the perfect word of God, you cannot present a
book that is so fundamentally flawed, that has so many errors and mess ups and inconsistencies and
logical screw ups that it's, I don't know how you can expect me to take it seriously.
They want you, what they want you to do, Thomas, the same thing they want me to do
is run with their interpretation because what they have done is, and we know this firsthand,
is they have cleverly created ways of overcoming these very difficult things. Does God know the
future? Well, yeah, he knows all things from the beginning to the end. Really, what do you do with
this passage where he like is surprised or shocked or, you know, oh, well, that's an anthropomorphism.
Are you sure? I mean, sure it could be, but God knows all things, but you get shocked and surprised
and who told you that you were naked, Adam, you know, and so when we look at these other stories,
that's why I love looking at the myths behind the myth of the Bible to find out where they come from
because that right there tells me how human the text really is and I have a lot more respect for
a human book than I do some magical book that's supposed to solve all the problems and it really
doesn't solve any. Yeah, well, and a lot of times when you when you study other mythology, you see
similar narrative patterns and you'll see similar things. Now, I don't think that, you know, some
people will say like, oh, well, hey, look, this God, you know, Mithras, you know, did this and,
you know, was dying and rising or this God did that and so therefore, you know, Jesus is based on
them and I'm like, I don't think that these are necessarily based on each other. Like there are
some stories like you look at the Sumerian flood myth and it's very, very similar and it predates
the biblical flood myth by, you know, a huge time span and they're very, very similar. So it's like,
okay, you know, you've got this people group that, you know, some of them went into exile
in, you know, Babylon and so they are going to be exposed to a lot of these stories. It's,
you know, if you had a regional flood a while back in, you know, you have a river valley between
the Tigris and Euphrates rivers that floods and if you have a particularly rainy flood season and
that, you know, there's this massive devastation, you know, who knows, there could be some source
or some origin that's, you know, based in reality, but that doesn't mean that the entire world was
flooded. Everything was wiped out and that, you know, one dude built a boat and crammed every
single animal on it. And then God made a rainbow for that. But to follow this, this, this chain of
thought, if you have, you know, there are some myths that are most likely the origin or the
source of the biblical story, but that doesn't mean that just because there's commonalities that
everything is the source of everything else. Like some things are just very common
storytelling mechanisms. Some things are just really common narrative tropes that we use to
communicate aspects of our humanity. You know, there's, there's a, the hero's tale is really
common because it appeals to us at our core nature of, you know, we sat out on a quest to
accomplish something like we have trials and tribulations and struggles and we find ways
to overcome them. And we have these climactic arches and, you know, we want to find love and
we want to get the girl and we want to, you know, come home heroic, having changed and
undergone this process and learned as a human being and come out stronger for it. And I think,
like these types of narratives, like they, they appeal to us for a reason because there's a,
there are core aspects of our humanity that all of us can relate to or most of us can relate to.
So it's to see certain things appear throughout, you know, various legends and myths and stuff.
It doesn't necessarily mean that they're true just because there's commonalities. It means that,
hey, people think very similarly because genetically we're very similarly wired. We share
most of our DNA with each other. And, you know, and, and there are some sources that kind of
trickle into other stories, but, you know, I just, I'm not sure where I was going with that,
but as far as the, the origin of this stuff goes, it makes more sense to me.
Yeah. You did a fantastic job. I really enjoyed this already. It's,
I find it fascinating that what we're, how do I put this? I wish I could lay my heart out on a,
on a table. People could see like, like, it's not my intention to mock or bash or,
or hurt. I'm trying to be as real and honest as possible. And I know I'm going to have biases
and it's going to sound like I just want the Bible to not be true. No, if there's a real
account that something's based off of, I want to call it for what it really was. But I also
do start, and I'm very open and honest about this. When I say that I am biased on the miraculous,
I don't, I don't believe that. I start with, if a, if a narrative in a book said,
hey, this happened, and it's so unbelievable, you know, a dead guy who's been dead for 15 years
rose from the dead. I'm going to say who is the guy, you know, I'm going to be skeptical.
And I just say that to say, like, I wish more people practiced that, but instead, and, and,
try to be honest, not overly skeptical. Like we talked about before the ship, before we even
hit record and hit the show, we were saying, you know, like, is there too much skepticism or is
there a, a point in which we're not using valid methodology maybe at some point and we're, we're
like going beyond. And this is the, the biggest attack I hear from Christians towards skeptics.
And I don't blame them because it's their sensitive, sacred text, but they say to us,
you're going too far. You're treating this book unlike you would the Greek epics or the, you know,
the other histories. Why aren't you being fair? And so, you know, and I think that honestly,
I think that that's a valid criticism. I think that they're, you know, there are atheists,
I think myself included who, you know, will or need to be aware of, you know, that this is
a pitfall of, are we taking our bias to a point where, you know, we're not able to accept the
parts that are historical and that we hold them to a higher standard than we would other texts.
And so a great example of this, and I know that you have, you know,
you watch your show and where, where I kind of push back against the myth is this position
is like one, to me, it doesn't make any difference whether or not Jesus existed or not. I don't have
a horse in the race. Like if Jesus existed, I like still think you'd just be a regular dude and
not, you know, the source of all these miracles and stuff. And if he didn't exist, well, then he
also didn't do miracles and didn't rise from the dead and stuff. And it's, to me, it's whether or
not he existed. I have the same position that I hold right now. So I try to come at it from an
unbiased perspective, but when I'm looking at all of these other characters throughout history,
and I look at say, you know, someone in the Egyptian Kings list, like most people who have
lived on the entire face of the earth over the entire course of human history have left behind
zero traces of their existence. Like almost everyone has left behind zero traces of their
existence. Most kings have left behind no traces of their existence. Now, if they were some, you
know, great ruler or emperor who conquered all these regions and, you know, set up all these
monuments and wrote about their tales and stuff like, yeah, they leave behind stuff. And we do
find things like as we dig down, we'll find written records and we find and we piece together
these histories and these narratives. But a lot of times like, well, there are some people like,
you know, Ramesses the Great, who we have all kinds of written narratives and, you know, we
have his mummified corpse and we have all this stuff. And like there's this beautiful standard of
like all of these different things that we piece together to show, you know, who he was, what his
life was about, you know, and tell his story. And it's demonstrable that he existed. You're not
going to find that level of evidence with most people in most places. And part of that is that
Egypt preserves stuff because it's dry and other places, you know, don't as well because they're
more humid and stuff breaks down. But that said, if you look at like a Sumerian king's list or an
Egyptian king's list and you see that, you know, they've recorded all of these names of rulers
that lived in this area and all you have is like one mention of so-and-so lived, you know, and ruled
the kingdom for 23 years and then he died. No historian is going to doubt that unless there's
a reason to doubt it. If there's another king's list that leaves them off, if there's conflicting
dates, then all of a sudden you have conflicting theories of which one is true, which one is right.
But if you just have written down like there was a dude who lived, that's not an extraordinary claim.
Well, here's the interesting thing that you're saying, and I find this fascinating about the
Sumerian king list that we see there's, and I've seen scholars actually do this with the genealogy
in the Genesis narrative going into the Noah's flood. How long did they live? 30,000 years or
whatever. And here's the thing, I should make a distinction though, because the Sumerian king's
list is not the best example. I would say that the Egyptian king's lists are better because like
they actually have realistic time frames of how long people lived. The Sumerian king's list is
like they have lists of names, but they'll put these astronomical years next to them.
The only thing is, even if that's the case, there's really no reason to deny that the Sumerian
kings may have existed, meaning there's no reason to doubt that they didn't exist
other than the links of their life. Are they mythologized? Is there a
numerological reason they put the dates there? Yeah, sure, they mythologized the dates. I don't
see any problem with that. But when it comes to this type of thing, it's like, yeah, I do start to
get more skeptical with these, so and so lived for 30,000 years. But at the same time, a lot of
people would trace their lineage back and be like, I am a descendant of Sargon or of this person or
whatever. And it's like, there probably was some dude that had some stuff written about him that was
a king. But other than that, depending on which one, first of all, there were multiple Sargons.
But if you start looking at the Egyptian kings list, and you read about
Aminhotep or something, and it's like, okay, there probably was a dude. And even if you had
nothing else but a king's list, there probably was a dude with that name. And he probably was a
Pharaoh. And that's not unreasonable to assume, because we know that there were hundreds of
thousands of people that lived throughout this time in this region, and you had lots of Pharaohs,
you had what, like over almost 30 something dynasties. And so it's like, it's not a wild,
extraordinary thing. Like, it's well within the confines of what we know happens. And it's the
same as saying, like, right now, there's 7 billion people living on planet Earth. So to assume that
there was a dude that lived with a certain name a while ago, that's not an unreasonable claim.
Now, when people start claiming that someone walked on water, and they multiplied fish and loaves,
and they raised the dead, and they themselves rose from the dead. And like, when they died,
hundreds of zombie people just like emerged from their graves and walked around, but no one recorded
it. It's like, now you start getting into the realm of like, ridiculous legend. But we know that
the, in terms of, you know, there being a dude named Jesus, Jesus was one of the most common
names at the time, or Yeshua, which was like Joshua, we know that they had all of these,
you know, prophecies and stuff, and about like a messianic figure. We know that there were apocalyptic
prophet type figures that would come up and, you know, spread these messages and preach. And we know
that, you know, that there's actually a lot that you can learn from like, the, the kumran,
like communities and stuff, that you start to learn about characters like John the Baptist,
and you start to like the Essenes and stuff, you start to kind of get a bigger picture. And it
fits with this narrative. And like, there are people in this time and place that are mentioned
in the Gospels that like, like, what's his name, King Herod and stuff that, you know, it's there,
there are some things to tack to reality. We know that the Romans had conquered that area,
and we're dominating that area. Like, these accounts were written not hundreds of years or
thousands of years after his life, but in close, yeah, like, you know, within several decades of,
of his death, that you start having Paul and then, you know, the Gospels and stuff writing about him,
and then you start having a few other mentions and stuff. And it's like, is it possible that he
didn't exist at all? Maybe. Yeah. But, and I'm not going to say one way or another. But to me,
it seems like a stretch. And it feels like you're holding the standard of evidence for simple
existence. You're holding the existence of Jesus to a higher standard than you would to these other
characters. It's like, did he exist? That's not an extraordinary claim. Like, someone existing
is the most ordinary, mundane thing. Like, was there a dude named Jesus who preached about stuff?
Like, based off of what we have written, like, the, the amount of evidence for that to me is
satisfactory. It's like, sure, there was probably a dude. I'm not going to contest that. I don't care.
I don't doubt it. I would say, and Thomas, if you don't mind me just giving this one little
praise to what you said, that's the train of thinking that I had, because when I went from
fundamentalist Christian, and I de-converted just, I mean, literal post-it stamp explanation of my
de-conversion. Not, not, not your version of a post-it, because your post, like, I'm just kidding.
But anyway, I, I started looking at comparative mythology, and I did. I openly say, like, I saw
that Zeitgeist movie, and I thought, holy crap, you know, Jesus is a Xerox copy of all these other
gods and things like that. So I started to look into it, and then I found scholars who actually
have comparative mythology stuff, and I started it like, wow, this is substantial. This isn't just
a nice little movie that's two hours that pop atheists like to watch. There's some, like, really
substantial stuff to show comparative things. When I delved into that, I went from God is only in
Jesus, and Jesus is the only way to, no, God's in every religion, and he's culturally showing his
own expression throughout all the cultures, and God's like that, the six wise men of Hindustan,
you know, he's the elephant, and everyone's blind trying to figure out what he is, but he's there.
Two, science. Science played a huge role in, in the scientific method on me de-converting and
starting to be critical, instead of trying to reinterpret the meaning of these texts to make
it astrothiology or allegory, or to explain it, to keep the book protected in some sense.
I started to actually poke into the book and say, hold on, we have a problem here,
and so I became a mythicist for a long time. Then I started to consider evidence, really,
and this is just my honest journey, and when I, what you said and how you expressed that
is why I went from mythicist to agnostic, to I'm agnostic, meaning I don't know, but I lean
on the historic side for many mundane reasons, and what really gets me, and I wanted to say this
in this, is what makes Christianity difficult is when you look at the sources, you see that there
was an early Jewish movement that probably was Jewish only, in fact, but then I suspect this
spread out into a diaspora, and when the diaspora Jews started to catch on, or if it,
maybe it originated in the diaspora, there were God-fear pagans that would attend synagogue,
and the pagan Gentiles get ahold of it, and anyone who knows how pagans deal with things,
they mythologize the hell out of some stuff, so here you have Jesus going from a mundane preacher
who's teaching, keep the law, I didn't come to destroy the law and the prophets, I came to
establish it, and circumcise, and obedience-type stuff, and a Jewish vein, to don't worry about
circumcision, Paul, you know, and it radically changed, this movement is now addressing,
addressing in a completely different audience, so I see why mythicists do that, it's like,
hold on, don't drive that nail in too deep, I think we need to try, here's the thing you said
at the beginning, I'll shut up after this, it doesn't matter if he exists or not, you're right
about that, and if we're trying to address the Christian world and help wake people up, I don't
know if a mythicist position is the best argument to present to someone when it's not an extraordinary
claim to say a human existed, so I like people like Polygia, Polygia literally will play in the
sandbox of the Christian till the cows fly, and in that sandbox, he's still breaking down
their methodology and their movement using the book itself, using the movement's teachings and
everything, so anyway. I want to be careful when it comes to, you know, trying to explain the origin
of, you know, the mythological aspects of, or the legendary, you know, crazy grand aspects of
Christianity, because, you know, I want to be careful not to speculate, because like there's
some things that we know about the area and the region, and we can make theories as to where it
might have come from, but without hard evidence, like their theories, and we can have multiple
competing theories that may fit what we know about the region and the people and the times and the
text, but without hard evidence to say like this was definitively the source of the mythological
aspect, I want to be a little cautious there. It could be not Gentiles, this could be Hellenistic
Jews like Philo and others, or even looking at the Dead Sea Scrolls, you know, there's some
movements there that have some extremely superstitious concepts. And I also want to,
I want to be careful to say like I'm not a historian, I'm a hobbyist, and I'm not an expert on
like the whole like New Testament like origins of, you know, I've read a little bit on kind of the
mythosist position, and I've kind of looked into it, and I've watched some debates and stuff,
and I've looked into like Richard Carrier and Bart Ehrman and Dr. Robert Price and stuff. And
I've, I've seen some of the arguments that they've put forth, and I haven't been convinced by the
mythosist position, but I don't want to, I don't want to come off as an expert because I'm not.
Right, right. This is all, this is for fun Thomas, I know, and for our audiences why
ultimately we're saying this is so they understand, look, this is a journey, we're still on this journey,
we're still learning, who knows what kind of evidence we might uncover, I hope we find more,
honestly, I hope we discover more, and we are looking for healthy skepticism is our point.
Yeah, so and I wanted to also respond to, you know, you said that it may not be the best approach
to like, if you want to reach people or change minds and stuff, and I, one, I think that you're
right in that regard that like if your goal is to change people's minds and you come out with this
fringe theory that's like, oh yeah, he didn't even exist, yeah, you're probably going to be
dismissed with the same level of someone who claims that they went walking in their cornfield
and that they met an alien who beamed them up to their spaceship. And so there's that, but also
like, I'm not sure that my goal is to just go out and can deconvert everyone and make them all
atheist and show them that it's wrong, like my goal is to figure out like, what's true and to
encourage people to use scientific skepticism, to encourage people to learn how to not just to
tell them, hey, here's what this says, and that's what you should believe it because I say it. No,
I want to show people like, this is how you can explore the evidence, and this is how you can
compare two sources and see like what's more reliable than the other. And, you know, I'm kind
of amazed how, you know, people will oftentimes they'll get a rudimentary understanding in like
high school or junior high of like the scientific method, but nobody learns the historical method
and they don't know how to do like a critical textual analysis of like different sources and try
to see like how much merit there is and how likely they are to be true. And if we had that and then
we applied that to our own religious beliefs, then I think that that would cause a lot more people to
to think more critically and maybe be a little more skeptical. And then we would also like,
as we teach scientific skepticism, we teach people to, you know, not to just be cynical and not just
to be contrarian or just to, you know, doubt everything for no good reason, but we teach people to
use a healthy amount of caution until the evidence that is required to believe something is there.
So for some ordinary mundane claim like, hey, I had a burger for lunch yesterday,
there's no reason to doubt that. Whereas if I say, you know, hey, I hopped in my car and it
transformed into Bumblebee and then like launched into space somehow, then it's like, that's an
extraordinary claim. And but if I, if I, you know, actually took you to my garage and showed you
and filmed the whole thing and had some scientists come and run some tests on it and, you know,
live cameras and stuff like that's the extraordinary evidence that you would need to see like, oh,
hey, this technology is real and it exists and cool. Hey, transformers, more than meets the eye.
It's, you know, understanding that like, extraordinary claims require extraordinary
evidence. I know it's kind of a cliche, but it's so true. It's like, if, if I just put forth some,
you know, ordinary claim, like it's not that you have to just be skeptical and doubting every
little thing. It's that when someone puts something that where there's a reason for there to be a
red flag because it's not something that matches with how the world works or at least how we're
pretty sure that the world works, if we're going to adjust everything that we know about the world
and completely change all of the scientific models that I'm not just talking about like new
French science that we're exploring. I'm talking about areas that like, we have a significant
amount of evidence for the centuries in multiple fields of science all overlapping on one specific
theory or one specific position. And there's an overwhelming reason why there's a 100% consensus
among all of the experts who dedicate their life to this. Like if something is going to come along
and completely, you know, run contrary to that belief, it's going to take a lot more solid evidence
to overturn that theory than something that's just completely in line with everything that we
know about how the world works. And that's why when someone says like, oh, yeah, you know,
evolution isn't true. And, you know, the dead can come back to life. And, you know, a man can walk
on water, you know, it's going to take more for me, you know, I mean, maybe he had like some
boat shoes or something, you know, I don't know, but like, you know, maybe he pulled some David
Blaine stuff, like that's not an extraordinary claim, like claiming that it was just a natural
explanation or some magic trick. That's not an extraordinary claim. But claiming that he was
able to completely overturn the laws of physics, and completely reverse his own, you know, density,
and to where he was buoyant enough to just kind of bobble along the top of the water,
like that is an extraordinary claim. And that would require some sort of demonstration or some
sort of birth or anything really. Yeah. That makes perfect sense. And I think that
I want more people to think skeptical. I'd like to see these religions become,
I guess you say evolve, get rid of some of the harmful tenants of them, especially the cults
that I've been interviewing ex members of like Jehovah's Witnesses, they have, you know,
disfellow shipping and the shaming and stuff. Those harmful practices that we see from Scientology,
they're horrible. Like there's so many horrific things that come from it. But I want to see these
religions move into the modern day and get rid of some of these horrible practices. If people
have a tradition they want to hold to, I mean, I interview scholars like Dr. Goodacre or
PhD candidate Duke University Ian Mills, I interview him all the time, he's a Christian.
And we did an interview, we talked about some stuff that were, I couldn't even imagine how a
Christian could believe that or say that. And it's his historian hat. It's his, it's his like,
it's his education that he's saying this, but at the same time, I'm like, why are you a Christian?
He says, well, I just, I choose to want to be a Christian. I like the moral. I like to be this
kind of person. And that's my own choice. And I'm like, I'm not knocking. So I get it, you know,
I like, but there's a difference between believing something because we want it to be
true or because we're scared of the alternative versus believing it because like,
that's where the evidence has led us. And I, you know, I want to go where the evidence leads.
I want to know what's true. I want to follow what's true. And, you know, I think that when
we are skeptical and we apply a skeptical lens towards everything, then it will help us to look
at some of the harmful beliefs and see, you know, is there any merit to this? So for example,
Jehovah's Witnesses, I believe we'll say like, you can't get a blood transfusion.
And it's, to me, that's so mind baffling that you could look at this and be like, hey, here is this
form of technology, this medical breakthrough that saves countless lives every year. And you have
a chance to allow your children to live and to survive and to breathe and to continue living.
And it's like, even if the Jehovah's Witness position was true, here's a chance where you
can have someone to go on to maybe save other people for the religion and to go out and share
the gospel because they got another 20 years of life or 50 years of life because they got a
blood transfusion. And instead, it's just like there's some weird archaic excuse as to, well,
if we read this first this way, it sounds like this new technology that wasn't even invented yet
is bad. So, you know, we shouldn't do it. You know, I actually had a Jehovah's Witness the other
day say to me that the evidence, if you will, is that blood transfusions don't work that much.
They really don't work that often. Yeah, I know, right?
I'm sorry. I'm not even going to dignify that with a response. Like, go look up how many
people's lives have been saved by blood transfusions. Talk to any doctor or nurse. Like,
that's BS. And they're teaching their circles that. See, that's what I'm... I don't care if
people want to believe. My wife believes in a spiritual... She doesn't want to use the word
spiritual, but she says she thinks there's something out there that's the cause of all this,
Thomas. And she said, I just want to believe that. And I just don't see how this is all exist...
How existence is without something up there or out there or something that made it happen.
That's her proposition, right? So, I don't knock that. So, Thomas, I really want to do this again
with you. You not only are fantastic at what you do and explaining these things, I encourage you
to keep going, man. I want my audience to come and subscribe to you. You really have a really
good way of presenting this evidence. Your head is wrapped around this knowledge. I appreciate your
demeanor and how you are trying to approach those who are once like us. You don't want to become the
opposite in the Darth Vader of religion. Well, I think that there's two extremes. There's the
one extreme that we've already talked about, which is that you have the atheists and the skeptics who
are like, none of it is real whatsoever. Just throw it all out. There's no value, no merit,
whatsoever. And even if they're presented with sufficient evidence, they'll hold it to a higher
standard. And they may be right, and it may all be garbage and stuff, and not true, but I think
that that's not healthy skepticism. That is... It's contrarianism. It's simply saying, no,
none of it, and no matter how much evidence that they see, they won't accept it. And then I think
that there's the healthy middle ground that's like the claim, the evidence needs to match the claim
for me to believe it. And then the other end of the spectrum that we haven't really touched on in
this interview is the Christians who will have the same biased approach as the people on the
other extreme, where they're just like, I'm going to accept anything and everything, even if it's
like a shoddy piece of evidence, if it confirms my belief, I want this to be true. And so I am
going to, instead of trying to analyze the context and figure out if it's true, I'm going to search
through the data and try to find and cherry pick anything and everything to build this case.
And so it's no matter how much evidence there is to the contrary, that might get ignored or
thrown out in a practice of cognitive dissonance. And if there's competing theories or competing
positions, they're not held on equal weight, even if the evidence is on equal weight, the one that
the Bible puts forward is favored. And so there is this favoritism of sources there, just like I
warn against atheists favoring a non-religious source and giving it more merit than either
than it deserves or they might give it what it deserves and then give the Bible less. And so
I'm like, yeah, they both might make these extraordinary miraculous claims. And so yes,
there is reason to doubt both of them. And there are legitimate reasons to have some skepticism.
But there's also, there might be little nuggets of truth in each of them. And you can,
that's where you start diving into the historical record and not that, like,
not just what people have written down, but the archeological record and seeing like,
is there evidence of this, you know, you'll find like a seal of Hezekiah or you'll find,
you know, inscriptions and things. And you're like, okay, this, there's no reason to believe that
there couldn't have been a dude like this, it fits with everything that we know of the history
of the time. Cool, I'll give it to him. So it's that healthy middle ground that I want more people
to adopt. It's like, yeah, I understand like people might be, you know, completely, you know,
in love with their religious belief, or they might be, you know, hurt by it. And, you know,
there can be bias that's created. But if you really care about pursuing the truth,
you should do your best to try to examine both sides as objectively as you can. And when you
start to feel an emotional urge rising up, kind of try to silence that and kind of quiet it down,
take a deep breath and reexamine the evidence and say like, what's the probability of each of these
beliefs based off of what we know and why your experts leaning one way or another and what is
their argumentation that they're presenting for it. I like that you said experts, you know, because
we can get caught up in pseudo concepts or pseudo historian, if you will, someone who's going out
there and not really considering why the will has been invented on these methodologies and
learning the history and going into this stuff. So do your own research does not mean spend an hour
on watching ancient aliens. Like, I'm sorry. But even though it's entertaining, it's definitely
not something you should go to to get all your until you can open up until you can open up
a academic article published by PhDs that is really kind of diving into this and be able
to either break it down or talk to an expert and have them break it down and understand it.
You have not done your own research. Right. And even then you're not doing your own research,
you're understanding their research. You're hitting something so important because I've dealt with
these groups, various groups, since I've had this channel that hold two interesting theories,
but I don't even call it a theory. It's a hypothesis. One of these hypotheses, for example,
are that the Gentiles that Paul is preaching to are Israelites. They're not pagans. And I know
that sounds like what? And there's this long explanation for a two house theory that the
United Mararchy, when it was divided in the Northern, lost Israelites would come back,
that these Gentiles are actually these lost Israelites throughout the nations that are
coming back, blah, blah, blah. Anyway, the point is they claim all anti academia, the academic
circles are all just church propaganda continuing. It's this really conspiracy theory is what I call
it. And the problem with that, and I recommend everyone who's looking into this, at least know
what the, if you want to call them so called experts, at least know what they say, understand
the arguments in the field of expertise, then argue against it, knowing what they say. Don't
come into this, everyone's wrong. And I'm right with a cognitive bias type of position where you
want the Gentiles to be Israelites, because you don't want it to be talking to someone who may
not be an Israelite, because for some reason, might be talking to you. That's how they feel. They
think it might be talking about them. They don't want to be part of the narrative because they
don't want to be Christian. I told them, you don't have to just okay using that method. Yeah.
It's okay to say I don't know and to hang your code on the peg of disbelief until you have a
reason to believe or to, and I say disbelief, but it's more like suspending belief saying,
I don't know, I'm going to wait. Take kind of the agnostic approach and you can have someone who's
like, I lean more towards religion or I lean more towards atheism, but right now, I genuinely am in
the middle. I have no idea one way or another. It's okay to have that approach and not just on
idea of whether or not a God exists. You can have that approach to anything in academia or
science or history. You can say, oh, I just heard this weird French theory, and instead of being
like, I have to say why it's wrong and then make a fool of yourself because you don't know what
you're talking about. Well, what they do often, and this is, I'm just using one example, many,
they're doing, they're actually going into this and something appears true to them.
So it might be like one piece of evidence or a couple pieces of evidence that in their mind,
they have a few presupposition that it lines up with and then it all of a sudden becomes true.
And I'm like, hold, suspend your buying something because something appears right now to be the
case. Consider scholarship and see why they interpret these things or why they see things
this way. Then do your own research and say, okay, first of all, and I'd love to hear them critique.
All right, Dr. Bart Ehrman says this and so and so says this, audio fear and Ishae Rosensvi and,
you know, going in all these experts and then say, here's why I think they're wrong.
But no, that's not what's happening. And so, I love your caution. I love your
diagnostic approach. It's like something isn't true simply because, you know, Richard Price says
it's true or because Bart Ehrman says it's true. Like, something is true because it's true and
the evidence, you know, ideally would be sufficient to, you know, obviously, some evidence doesn't
last, it doesn't stick around. But, you know, until we have sufficient evidence,
then you can have competing theories and you can lean heavily in one direction or another.
And you can say this is more likely than the other. But again, you should know why people
make those claims and why they lean that way, as opposed to just, well, so and so is really smart
and they said a thing. Exactly. That's not to knock authority. Like, if someone has spent
an entire lifetime researching and studying something and now not just one person, but you
have thousands of people who've spent their lifetimes really diving into a field and learning
the ins and outs and the culture and the language and the history and the archaeological findings
and they've gone and done digs. And like, if this is their existence, they eat, sleep and
breathe this stuff. And every single one of them is kind of coming to the same conclusion
using different things that they found and different pieces of evidence. And then like,
sometimes those, you know, narratives are kind of changing as more evidence is found. And, you
know, there might be an ongoing, extremely heated debate in academia about a particular
issue until there's some new find or some new evidence and, you know, they analyze it and
make sure it's not a fraud and that it's, you know, from the right time period and it's got all this
stuff. And then the consensus starts to shift and then there's reasons behind why they believe so.
It's not that they always have perfect conclusions. It's not that they always get it right. But it's
that based off of the best information available at the time that's been analyzed by people who
do this for a living and have done it for years, that they've all come to a certain consensus or
that there's a couple of competing theories. Like if you don't understand why they've reached
that consensus or why people have or arguing for two different positions, then you're,
it's just a really lazy way to believe something if you simply believe it because you heard it said.
But don't you know that the Illuminati is secretly, I'm just kidding.
So it's like, yeah, there's value in like who you heard say it and why. Like if it's like,
you know, if you don't have time to research a topic and you don't have time to understand it,
but you know that all of the experts are holding a particular position and it seems to comport
with reality and it's not a life-changing decision, cool, like go with it. That's fine.
Like it's not like you have to waste your ears, not waste, but like it's not like you have to
spend every single passing moment studying this stuff. Like it's okay to rely on people
who have done the work on some of these things and to accept, you know, the conclusions that
they've come to. But if you're going to go against that flow, against that grain,
you better damn well assured know why you believe it and not just because like,
you know, some blog that, you know, some anonymous blogger wrote something with,
you know, out really presenting, you know, all of the both sides of the position and why,
you know, one side is right. Well said. Well said. I only have one more question for you,
because I want to save plenty of the entree for future endeavors with you,
potentially having scholars join us. I love your thinking and the way that you assess this
information. I'm with you on this and the way that we are coming at this, trying to approach
this topic as amateurs, as just independent, you know, podcasters, YouTubers, trying to,
you know, get the get into the minds of the experts. And this is my final question.
Are you located in the same location that genetically modified skeptic is? Because
your background looks very, very similar. I actually am stealing his studio right now.
Dude, I could tell I was like, hold on, that is the awesome background.
No, I came over to his house and I was like, Hey, I've got an interview. Can I,
can I just prop up my laptop here and hop in? He was like, yeah, I'd go for it.
So. Well, dude, I'm so glad you guys are friends. I figured if I, if I put, there's like a plant
back there covering up the part that says genetically modified skeptic on his little
silver YouTube subscribe. Oh, yeah. And so I figured y'all would just think it was mine.
Well, you have one. So yeah, either way, I do, but it's not behind me.
Dude, that's awesome. And I just want to say thank you, bro, for coming on with me,
giving me the opportunity to interview you, of course, to, you know, explore these topics as
two independent, you know, amateurs in this field. But, you know, like we get the first
hand eye witness of some of these experts. And I'm interviewing Dr. Bart Ehrman tomorrow.
So I'm extremely lucky that my audience has made that possible with the GoFundMe.
And we're going to explore Christian apologetics with him on, because there's some Christian
apologists who are attacking some of his stuff saying he doesn't really know what he's talking
about. And he's trying to make the Bible not true. So we'll see what he says tomorrow. But
thank you so much, man. Let's do this again. Yeah, I've enjoyed it. I seriously have too.
I hope you guys have. Go in the description. Make sure you guys subscribe to this channel.
If you like what he's saying, join his Patreon. You guys can harass him personally. He told me
before the show. You guys can become a Patreon member, man. Help him out and do what he's doing.
He's part of the team. Like, this is what we want. And I'm passionate about it. I love everything
he said. I hope you did too. Like the video, share it out there. Let's have him come back again.
Maybe you guys have some ideas and never forget, in case cognitive dissonance,
and trust me, dissonance is a big thing. We are MythVision.
