Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I've heard through the grapevine some children have been acting up.
So Daddy brought his belt.
And some people are going to get a spankin' today, okay?
We're going to give some whoopens.
I don't know who it is that needs to get this whoopin', but I brought my belt.
Why? Because there is this clear defiance against the New Testament authors
imitating, using, even competing, it seems, with Greek legends, Greek literature, Greek
wisdom, et cetera.
I would even go further to say they're not just competing with it.
I'd say some of them are actually adopting it.
It's not just competition.
They're using it.
But I have a special guest with me today, none other than someone who's absolutely
addicted.
Yes, he's changed his addictions over time to the Greek world, and that is gnostic
informant.
Welcome, Neil.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Thank you.
What's going on?
I brought my belt.
That's what's going on.
Let's get it.
I'm not playing around, man.
We're going to do this tonight.
We're going to have fun.
By the way, just to tease people, tomorrow, I'm going live with Dennis McDonald.
Some Reddit people have brought some criticisms and really kind of poisoning the well on
a way on kind of saying Dennis isn't a real scholar.
These are Dennis McDonald's words on the phone with me earlier, so everybody stay tuned.
Tomorrow, Derek, I'm going to kick ass.
Now, Dennis doesn't usually say words like that.
He kind of tries to, but he's bringing it tomorrow.
We've got a few things I'll be highlighting today that are going to be in depth with him
because he's well aware of it, but we're going to highlight those in a minute.
What I want to do, Neil, I want you and me, we're both driving the car.
If you feel you need to reach over and grab the steering wheel because you think I'm going
off the edge of the cliff, or you need to show me the street sign, we're on a journey.
We're on a trip.
Everybody is in the backseat of this bus.
You drive, I drive.
I'm not going to be mad if you're going to go, hey, I got to look at this, but look at
that as we go through this today.
But I do want to start with imitation if we can.
And that's Dennis McDonald.
He is the pioneer, the OG.
He is the very first person who's highlighting this in our modern era in a way that I honestly
think is brilliant.
I think what he's done is genius.
In his book I have here, the first thing I want to do so that people don't go, oh, it's
Dennis McDonald in case for some reason they've been, the well has been poisoned for them
and they just, well, Bart Ehrman doesn't accept that.
I have nothing negative to say.
I work with Bart.
I just want to say Bart's not up to speed on everything.
Bart still thinks Luke Axe is written in 85.
Bart still has stuff.
And these aren't my words.
Ian Mills, who was a student of him, several of his students say Bart's dated on many things
is what it is.
Right.
You know, it is what it is.
So it's just one guy.
You care.
Like people put way too much on his shoulders.
Way, way, way too much, bro.
And as Rick Miller has said, argumentum ad bartum.
It's a fallacy.
Well, Bart doesn't think this or Bart says that.
So it's like, he's become the mouthpiece for anyone who's, you know, kind of like a gatekeeper
in a way and he doesn't even realize it by the online community.
He doesn't realize it because when I talk to him, he's like, huh, what?
He's confused.
He doesn't live on the internet world paying attention to these things.
But Dennis highlights throughout the entire gospels and acts, but there's several people
who've spoke to me said, look, man, I don't accept Mark and Matthew.
But Luke acts, I can, I can see Luke acts being a high literary production, highly educated
Greek author.
I could see Luke acts imitating Homer, the Odyssey, Iliad, something like that.
I could see that.
I can't see the mark.
I can't see the Matthew.
So I want to start with Luke acts in one spot because there are several of places where
he's Euripides, Bacchai, he's imitating Dionysus, literally freeing from earthquake and a jail
cell.
That is exactly what happened to Dionysus.
I mean, you know, with Paul, there's so many damn things, dude.
And the fact that people can't wrap their head around that, because I think it's literal
history, it just, you know, before you even get to them, to the memesis stuff, right?
The question, and this is going to take two seconds to answer this question.
The question is the first of all, and McClatchy, before we were supposed to do this with McClatchy,
he couldn't do it anymore for whatever reason, we first were going to hash out if the Jews
were even interested in Greek, anything, like were they reading Greek at all, which is a
mind blowing, like if the Gospels are in Greek, you know, you're writing to Greek churches
in Asia Minor and Macedonia.
So that's not enough.
All you got to do is, well, let's look at some of these sources from the time period.
And let's go back a little bit.
Let's go back to the third century, second century BCE, you get Aristobulus, a Pinaeus,
Jewish Hellenistic philosopher, who phylo-sites a lot, and he's a Platonic, Pythagorean, Parapathetic,
which is the school of Aristotle, and he's into Stoicism and all that stuff.
And you can't separate that type of literature from the world of Hesiod and Homer.
I'll give you a better example, actually.
If you look at his successor, who is phylo, phylo of Alexander, I mean, this is just,
we have so much preserved from him.
And if you actually go into what he's talking about, he calls Plato, the most holy Plato.
He's citing Homer.
He's talking about Hesiod's theogony.
He's saying that Hermes is the Logos, the messenger like an angel from God.
He's comparing Yahweh and Zeus.
So-
And Octavian Augustus, what did he say about him?
He said some unbelievable stuff.
You want to hear it?
Yeah, pull that source up.
I want to hear it.
All right.
Before, I'm going to pull that up right now.
But look at this.
He, phylo was making the claim that Moses was the teacher of Pythagoras and that all the
Greek philosophers and law givers, and by the way, Hesiod, that's a poet, were all basically
these inspired prophets, right?
This is like, whoa, this is, look at this.
And Aertophanus, in the second century, identified Moses with the very Mousseus.
That's the son of Orpheus.
That's also in Plato, by the way.
According to Aristotle, as I just mentioned, Homer and Hesiod drew from the books of Moses.
Right, right.
There was polemics going on, by the way, between the Romans and Jews, or it was Greek authors
and Jews oftentimes trying to say, our guys old or no, your guys learned from my guy and
either way, though, there's a conflation happening.
The point is this, the question of, are they interested in Greek material?
That's settled, like, we don't even have to talk that.
If you can't, if you haven't figured that out yet, you're just not reading enough.
Let me just put it this way.
The reason there was a Maccabean revolt is because that they were into the Greek stuff
and the Maccabees were trying to take back.
In fact, I think it was Dr. Miller, who mentioned in passing in his book, he wanted to spend
a little bit more time, resurrection and reception, emphasizing the point that they were trying
to turn the temple into a temple of Zeus.
They wanted to try and turn this into a temple of Zeus, honoring that God as Zeus Yahweh.
You know what I mean?
Trying to make this God.
I'm glad you brought that up.
I'm so glad you brought that up, because then people are going to say, but isn't that,
so yeah, maybe they're reading the stuff, but they're still pushing back on all these
myths.
The answer to that is yes, but Greeks themselves are doing that already.
I'm just going to have to go right, I'm going to have to cite my boy Plato right now.
Here it is.
Are you sharing it?
Yeah.
Plato's Republic.
I don't see it.
Okay, there you go.
Plato's Republic.
All right.
All you got to do is what he talks about in Plato's Republic.
He talks about how, let's see, I wish I had this ready.
Thank you, Stacey's Mom podcast, didn't get a chance to send a happy birthday message
yesterday, so I wanted to send you a birthday super chat.
Thank you so much for all you do in VP.
Thank you, Stacey.
Go subscribe to her YouTube channel.
Me and Ryan are actually going to be doing a show with her.
My wife, Queen of Mythvision.
We're going to be doing a show on both of our experiences coming out.
I don't know where it'll go.
You never know.
But go subscribe to her channel.
At some point, we're going to make that happen soon, so hope to see you over there.
Stacey's Mom is got it going on.
Nice.
Nice.
Yeah.
So Plato himself, this is already a trend in Greek theology and philosophy as well.
They're already pushing back on what later is known as pagan stuff.
The Greeks themselves are doing this.
So it's not like it's only the Jews that are doing this.
People in general, there's a movement of reforming the old ways and involving more
stoic and middle Platonist ideas.
Plato himself says, our principles of theology, some tales are to be told and others are not
to be told to our disciples from their youth upwards if we mean to honor the gods.
He's basically saying like, if they are to be courageous, must they learn other lessons
besides these and lessons of such kind, which will take away the fear of death?
Can any man be courageous who has the fear of death in him?
Certainly not, he said.
And so if you actually, this would take a long time to read through this, but Plato
is going through all the stuff about Homer that he doesn't like, that he wants to replace
and wants a new state religion type thing.
And he even goes to far as to say stuff like, I can't believe he depicts Achilles in this
way.
Achilles shouldn't be down in hell in the bad place and Hades with everyone else.
All the good people need to be in their own separate world.
This is where you get these Platonic heaven and hell from, right?
And all the bad people need to go to a bad place.
And this is all in the Republic Book Three.
So you guys can look for yourself.
But what I'm saying is it's the, those ideas are not just in one type of area.
It's not just like Jewish and Christians that are pushing back on, on some of this stuff
that we call pagan now.
These are Greeks themselves are doing this too.
So that's, that's, I just want to make that, throw that out there is like, that's, that's
everywhere.
You're right.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
So we have, without a doubt, Jews writing Greek literature, Jews writing in Greek, which
is simply saying they wrote Greek literature.
We have them clearly using Greek philosophy.
We have them clearly reacting, responding in some way, engaging Greek material enough
to go, no, no, no, no, no.
Listen, Moses taught your guy.
Oh, so you know, you know a thing or two about our guy.
And so there is reaction.
There is pushback, but sometimes this pushback is syncretism where they're syncretizing the
two ideas into one to try and collaborate.
Sometimes it's reactionary, but either way, you can't react if you're not responding.
And so how do you get a son of God among several sons of gods coming into the world
and what he just stays in a bubble.
He's not competing with other sons of gods.
It's silly.
It's really silly, especially when your whole religion is aimed at going out toward a Gentile
world, especially if it failed amongst Jewish people themselves.
So I want to give some evidence here in Acts, just to start somewhere where it isn't just
Dennis that thinks this.
There are several academics who actually think that Luke Acts is sophisticated enough to
have known Homer's Odyssey and the Iliad and is imitating the shipwreck narrative.
So I went ahead and popped up some examples here.
You can actually read if you want to go through Odyssey six and here are your actual examples
that you can go through.
It's in his big blue book, which is affordable, great, great book.
If you're trying to dive into this stuff yourself, but did you want to see that Caesar thing
by Filo real quick?
Sure.
All right, because I just found I know you were asking for it.
So it's right here.
It says this.
This is by Filo.
OK, he says.
Oh, am I on the wrong page?
I don't know.
I am on the wrong page.
Hold on a second.
He says this is because I think you I think you're right for pointing this out.
This is Caesar, who calm the storms.
Yes, yes, raging in every direction, who healed common diseases, which were afflicted.
And this is a contemporary.
I mean, think of this is going on around the time that Jesus is supposedly in Paul's
supposedly running around, right?
Isn't that while who calm the storms and healed common diseases, which were afflicting
both Greeks and barbarians who decided from the south and from the east and ran and penetrated
as far as north and west in such a way as to fill all the neighboring districts and waters
with unexpected miseries.
This is he who did not only loosen, but utterly abolish the bonds in which the whole of the
habitable world was previously bound and weighed down.
This is he who destroyed both evident and unseen wars, which arose from the attacks of robbers.
This is he who rendered the sea free from the vessels of pirates and filled it with the
merchant men.
He is attributing an honor.
I think this is a note.
Just kind of note.
Yeah, to Augustus, which does not belong to it was Pompey who cleared this.
So yeah, this is some sort of note from somebody.
It's almost like a commentary saying Augustus didn't do that Pompey, but you know, I don't
remember seeing that my other in my version.
So that's interesting.
Right.
This is he who gave freedom to every city who brought disorder into order, who civilized
and made obedient and harmonious nations, which before his time were unsociable, hostile
and brutal.
This is he who increased Greece by many Greece's and who greesized the regions.
Yeah, exactly.
Regions of the barbarians and their most important divisions, the guardian of peace,
the distributor of every man of, dude, you can't tell me.
That sounds like some sort of Messiah figure.
It doesn't it for sure.
And he got the title Sabash Day.
Yep.
And Latin one to be worthy title only before Augustus.
Only God's got that title.
Now, after Augustus, it went to every Roman emperor there was.
They're all Augustus.
That's why that John Dominic Crossen book, I told you, so good.
It's called Render and Decesar.
Right.
And if you haven't read it, he takes that point where Jesus is saying one of the Jews
are trying to trick Jesus and they're like, Hey, what do we do with this coin?
Do we pay taxes to Caesar?
And he says he grabs one.
He said, Hey, hand me one.
Like he didn't have one already, which is a sign that this guy wasn't wasn't even
cooperating with the coinage, right?
But he's like, hand me one and he takes the coin and he's like,
what icon, what image do you see on this?
And then he thinks it's actually, I can't remember which coin specifically,
but it would have been an image, I think of Tiberius.
And on it, it would have had pretty much the Bastos would have been on that image,
which means the one to be worshipped, right?
Literally, like God, like he said, that's what it means.
Yeah.
And he ultimately is saying, like, give to Caesar back.
What's, what's his given this coin and he and DV Philly, this son of God is of Latin.
That's so I'm sorry.
I finished your point, but I just want to make the point that like he's saying,
you see this image, whose image is that?
Oh, it's the Caesars, right?
And it's saying worship.
See, look, give that to Caesars, but he's using it as a polemic to say,
but give to God worship, not this worship.
The reason why and the reason why that's so important is because the son of God,
Messianic figure, the savior figure who brings this era of peace that hasn't been
seen hundreds of years.
It's been the Mediterranean was at war forever.
Like as long as they know who knows when it was ever at peace.
But this is this is the time it's at peace.
So first for a mess, for a Messiah figure has to beat that somehow.
Think about it.
You're the bar is set.
These are Augustus, this amazing emperor.
He, why, why wouldn't you?
Why can't he be the Messiah?
Well, because Jesus is the Messiah and here's why.
He's better because this, this, this, this and this.
He's not an emperor with riches.
He's, you know, he's a humble guy from the from the galley.
And he's he's saying that anybody can go to heaven, not just the rich, not just.
It's all different message.
Almost turns this son of God that they're that people think is Augustus.
And flips it on its head.
Exactly.
That's also why he's saying, look, look, look, give back to Caesar, give him these
damn coins, give him his coins.
These coins are nothing but on the coin.
John was trying to point out Dominic Crossen who's saying it's literally
telling you this guy is the one who needs to be worshiped.
He's saying, no, you need to worship God.
So give God worship.
Don't give Caesar worship, but give him back his coins.
And so it was a clever way to get out of a pickle of like, if he told them,
yeah, no, no, no, no, pay taxes, you know, bow to Caesar pay taxes.
He might have lost some of his following is what John Dominic Crossen would say.
But then he's saying, if he said, no, don't pay taxes, then they could have
got him on rebellion right out the gate.
So he had a slick, sophisticated way of getting out of it in that kind of pickle.
Um, anyway, point is, I'm glad you brought up just this whole Caesar thing
and how you got a Jew.
This isn't like this isn't a Greek.
This isn't a Roman.
This is a Jew and I'm talking about by nationality, right?
Like this is a guy who claims to be Jewish, who's saying this about Caesar,
who's contemporaneous to New Testament, at least it's before New Testament,
but at least it's contemporaneous somewhat to Paul.
Right.
And like, what do you say to that?
And the reason why I wanted to set this off before we get into Dennis with
Dallas, because I'm trying to show that the world that people are, they're all
living in the same world.
There's not like some border around Galilee and like they can't, they don't
know what's going on and like acts proves this acts sites.
Epimenides.
Oh, yeah.
Dude, it's Titus.
I mean, too.
Titus.
Yeah.
Well, no, acts does too.
Acts 17.
Yes.
Act.
By the way, acts 17 is talking about the Areopagus, which is a group of people
that are living in Athens that are religious people.
It mentions the Stoics.
It mentions the Epicurean.
Epicurean.
So this person who's writing acts has knowledge of all these different
philosophical groups.
Boom.
That's, that's right there.
You already know this.
They, they have knowledge of what's going on.
And then you couple that with epimenides being cited.
That's a sixth century BCE philosopher from Crete.
That's 500 years before 600 years before this.
And they, they know about this stuff.
So this is, this is not a divided up world where the, you know, the monotheist
over there and the polytheist over here.
And then they're all in the same world and they all know of each other.
They're all aware of each other.
And they're sort of, you know, working within the same space.
Yeah.
That's why you see Josephus who comes after this and contemporaneous to some
of the writings and even before Luke acts in my opinion, but Josephus is making
Moses have an ascension.
Think about this, bro.
We've all read the Bible.
I read the Bible when I was a young kid, read my old Testament, was reading it
in King James, came across that part where Moses finally dies.
And it's like the way you kind of picture it is, he couldn't go into the
promise land.
He wasn't allowed because he murdered somebody.
So he broke, he broke a big commandment and shouldn't have done that, but he
killed somebody.
But maybe it was the part where he hit the stick, the stick against the rock.
I can't remember.
It, it added up point is he wasn't going into the promise land.
He dies and it's like God took care of him, like God buried him or something.
And so he dies.
Moses has an ascension narrative in Josephus and it's not just Josephus.
I think Philo does this as well with Moses, but who else had this kind of
ascension narrative in the Greek and Roman world?
We know Romulus and they're, they're trying, why add that?
Why add that?
Well, Elijah also had some type of ascension.
Yeah.
With chariots and all of this stuff.
And Elijah never dies either.
Elijah just, Elijah never dies.
He gets taken by a chariot and you don't know, you don't know if he's dead or not.
Exactly.
So the antecedent we're looking for, you can find clearly the influence of
Hellenism and what's going on in the Greek and Roman world.
Over.
And another thing I know is, and I, and I wanted to, I was trying to find if
there's any evidence of people going up to heaven in the Old Testament.
You don't really see that.
And instead, well, I mean, the closest thing, I was going to say, the closest
thing to that is Elijah, Enoch, does Enoch just, it doesn't describe it.
Right.
It doesn't say he went up.
Right.
Elijah does technically ascend, but it doesn't say he's died.
So then you have that question.
But here's the thing.
Saul, when he goes to that, um, which of Endor, when they, when he
tries to get ahold of Samuel, Samuel comes up out of the earth.
Right.
So he's going, they go down.
So we don't, that whole, the whole Platonic heaven and hell thing seems to be
a later idea.
Yep.
I think you're right.
I think you're onto something, but like honing in back into Luke acts.
If you can get people to at least see this in Luke acts, then I feel like you
have a better chance on getting people to see this stuff going on in Mark,
Matthew, you know, John, other New Testament literature and several
scholar friends of mine who don't buy Dennis's material all the way, say they
do think it's going on though, in Luke acts.
So I'm like, okay, there are, they're at least granting.
This is happening in Luke acts.
And I just wanted to bring up the pericope here, uh, well, specifically
this example in Odyssey five and six.
This is the shipwreck story with Odysseus.
And then acts 27 is the shipwreck with Paul.
Um, we have to, we'll end up skipping the third box, but Neil, I guess I'll read
one side.
You read the other.
Do you want to read the Odyssey and I'll read the acts.
Sure.
Okay, start from the top.
Yes.
Start from the top and we'll work our way down.
Odysseus fear disaster and Calypso predicted it.
Paul predicted disaster.
Nice.
Calypso sent a harmless and warm wind.
The noble Odysseus was delighted as he spread his sail to the wind and he
skillfully ran a straight course.
When Nodos blew a warm wind from the south, thinking that their
intention had prevailed, they set out and hugged the coast of Crete.
After many days Poseidon, the earth shaker.
Don't just kind of added that, but then he is called aroused all the
blasts of all the winds and hid the clouds, both land and sea.
Night rushed down from heaven.
And wow, Euros and Nodos clash as did stormy Zephyros, an ether
born Baraeus that rolled a huge wave.
Not much later, a violent wind called Lyricalion, a hybrid of the Greek,
Euros and the Latin Aquilo, north wind, rushed down from the island when
neither sun nor stars appeared for several.
Now skip the next because it's a repeat.
So you got to go down to this right here.
The winds bore the ship here and over and there over the sea.
Sometimes Nodos tossed the craft to Baraeus to carry Ferris thigh.
And sometimes Euros exceeded to Zephyros to drive it on.
Because the ship could not defy the wind, we gave up and were driven
because they feared running a ground of the Circus.
They lowered the cage and thus were driven along.
Now what's interesting too, you've been learning Greek and I've got that
word Ferris thigh and then on your side, it's F Ferris thigh, which
that that epsilon denotes that it's happening in the past.
So it's the same word.
This is the thing about it.
Is there several like literary parallels and examples that kind of you
could say, whoa, using somewhat similar language.
And in some cases it is similar.
It's the same word.
Yeah.
Right.
Okay.
When you see that epsilon in front, the E, it just means it's past tense.
Right.
Happening or happened.
You know what I mean?
That's like, that's basically, that's what that's the difference between.
Anyways, then the knees of Odysseus gave way and his beloved heart dissolved.
Now my utter destruction is sure.
Finally, all hope that we would be saved was vanishing.
Odysseus abandoned hope.
The sailors abandoned hope, but not Paul.
Notice Paul's better.
The goddess Hino appeared to Odysseus and assured him that he would not
perish, but he would lose the ship.
It was the fate of Odysseus to escape.
An angel appeared to Paul and notice something here.
This is an important point when me and Dennis were doing our
response to those apologists where they want to take this example and
acts as literal history of what actually happened.
And anyway, in this situation, he said, go show me any shipwrecks in
the ancient world that were historical shipwrecks where angels or
deities appear to them and show up and like give them a word about the
fate of their ship and such.
It doesn't happen.
It happens in the Odyssey.
It happens in Acts.
So here we have an angel appeared to Paul and assured him that no one
would perish, but they would lose the ship.
It was the fate of Paul to stand before Caesar.
And I'm noticed the one thing that stands out and that you should be,
that everyone should be noticing is this sequence of events.
There's a sequence that's, it's following a certain sequence of certain
things that are happening in a certain sequence, a certain order.
They're not jumping all around.
It's not like one of them happened this time and then the other one was,
these are happening, they're lining up.
Right.
And by the way, just to make the point, what you're saying, for those who
are interested, Odyssey five and six, it's early in Odyssey that you start to see
it start to, you know, go further and further later into the later books of
Odyssey.
That's what you mean by sequential and not everything verbatim.
Like it's not exactly every single sentence, but it is sequential and it
keeps going down as a parallel.
So this is an important point because in this same shipwreck narrative and the
idea of Odysseus selling on ships in Mark, you have Jesus with many ships.
He has many ships.
It's not one.
Matthew and Luke make it into one, but Mark has many ships.
When Odysseus had many ships because he had many soldiers, he's traveling with
all these ships.
Dude, you and me were on the Lake of Galilee, like many ships.
We saw what a first century boat looks like.
OK, that ain't a ship, bro.
That's like a canoe.
This is not reflecting something that happened.
Like this is definitely not.
And you can see the other side.
It's a little dinky lake.
It's not, I mean, OK, I'm not going to call it a long way.
It's kind of it's like it's like an oval shape.
There's a very long way, but that's you can still see both sides.
Would that like, I don't know, right, right?
You make it seem like it's a big sea with big ships and big giant waves.
But anyway, let's continue anyway.
Goddess appeared Odysseus, angel appeared to Paul.
Now you're at Odysseus.
Odysseus did not trust the goddess and tried to manage on his own.
The sailors did not trust the word of the angel and tried to manage on their own.
And they did.
But when, but when dawn of beautiful locks produced the third day, then he saw land
to Odysseus, the land and would appear most welcome.
But when they arrived, they could not recognize the land, but they did
observe a day, a bay with a beach on which they wanted, if possible, to ground the ship.
Hmm. The ship wrecked the ship wrecked.
Yep. Odysseus wrote all this.
OK, Odysseus wrote a plank and then swam.
Passengers wrote planks, others swam.
Odysseus reached the shore of the island.
Everyone reached the shore of the island.
Odysseus, cold gathered leaves, Paul, cold gathered firewood.
This is where it's like the most obvious.
And the woman who found Odysseus at the beach, the locals at the beach feared
that he was a murderer and that that ending right there.
Oh, it's still, it's still more OK.
Yep.
Recoiled in fear at his appearance, punished by a God when an ass bit him.
Nausicaa assumed from his looks that he was a God.
And when he survived, they assumed he was a God.
OK, those last five or six make it so obvious that at the very least,
the author of Acts is inspired in looking at the story of the shipwreck.
Right.
Leasing at the very least, if not a full blow, Mimesis.
That's why I'm saying, you know, some of the smarter, sophisticated
Christians who contact me will say, look, I I I could see it possibly being Mimesis
and yet still think there's a kernel of history to it or something like there
might have been a real shipwreck somewhere along the lines.
But they've they embellished or they they made the furniture.
They do want to give them a point?
Want me to show it to whoever said that to them?
Look no farther than Plutarch, Plutarch's lives.
Think about this.
These are real historical people from real history.
And he's comparing them and he's like, OK, I'll give you an example.
Mark Antony and Demetrius, the son of Antigonus.
They both had really similar lives.
They're very lucky.
They're very very well loved, good looking people.
But had but then their luck runs out at really bad times.
So he compares their lives and he puts them together side by side.
And you could see how they have like a parallel life.
So you can see how someone like, I don't know, someone who's
writing these gospels are looking at these little historical kernels
and comparing them to other mythologies and then putting them side by side.
And then doing that, if you can, you can't, it can be in the middle.
You know what I mean?
So I tend to like I'm learning more and more about what genre is,
what these particular genres might be and stuff.
And I empathize with people who go, well, maybe they colored
their their story or their word of mouth or whatever into narrative.
And therefore they've made it into an imitation of great storytelling.
But maybe Paul really did end up on a ship that ended up
wrecking at some point in his life and they ended up document it.
Now, I don't I don't say that's not possible.
But here you know, this is a scenario.
This this is important real quick.
I just think this is important to highlight.
If that is true, we will never know.
No, it won't. OK.
But if it is true, this is how I think what it went.
What it went.
Paul travels to Macedonia and there's a minor shipwreck on the way.
People talk about it, it becomes a story.
Oh, did you hear Paul's ship got wrecked on the way here?
Oh, we're lucky he's OK.
That story gets remembered by a few people.
Right. But then when acts gets written, the person who's writing it
thinks of this famous shipwrecks Odysseus.
Right. Right. And then the amesis happens.
That is exactly what's all that needs to happen.
So I'm willing to say that's possible, right?
I'm not convinced of that.
Even though I'm willing to say there could be in what they call that,
they call that memory.
So if there's a memory behind it, maybe there is, maybe there isn't.
For me, I I understand the temptation of trying to say that there's a memory there.
I just don't think it's necessary.
And if there is a memory, there's no way to know that it is.
But I can show you very good reason.
Like I want to start with what we can know, not assume.
Maybe there's a memory behind this.
I know this is literary.
There are very good reasons to see the signals and evidence.
This is literary.
Is there a memory behind this that Paul might have been in a shipwreck?
No one knows that, but we can maybe assume that there could have been.
I did this with Del Allison, Junior Neil, when I said,
hey, what happened to Matthew?
What do you think didn't happen?
I asked him and he says, you know what I think?
I said, what about Jesus being tempted in the wilderness for 40 days,
fasting and all that he gets tempted three times.
And Allison was like, well, I tend to think that this is a memory of the fact
that Jesus was casting out demons and he was a kind of a miracle worker, right?
And I was like, OK, but I thought about that after I recorded it and published it, I was like,
hold on, the fact that Jesus was in the wilderness for 40 days and 40 nights
in a story right after he gets baptized, he's empowered, boom,
he's got to go out here and do all this miracle work.
Supposedly he's doing all this miracle work in real world, according to Allison here,
because we see him doing this in later narratives and whatnot.
And he's been remembered that way, that this story of Jesus being tempted three times by Satan,
40 days, fasting in the wilderness is the kernel is a memory of him being able to cast out demons.
I don't see that.
I just thought of something that I should have thought of.
And I'm going to throw in a little L for the Christians that throw a dunk on us real quick,
because check this out, right?
We think Corinthians, Second Corinthians is legit, right?
Isn't that one of the seven letters?
Yeah, yeah, First and Second Corinthians.
So someone wrote this letter, in other words, Paul, OK.
He says right here, three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned,
three times I was shipwrecked.
I spent a night and a day in the open sea.
So all it takes now is this got this epistle to be at the hands of the gospel.
Then they say, oh, wow, Paul was shipwrecked.
So was Odysseus.
I'm going to write a narrative for my for my book.
I'm going to make it better than better than Homer.
So if all they had was Paul's letters, you can still do it.
They can still do it.
But here's the thing.
I even called in the question of what Paul's describing here.
Sure.
OK.
Now, I'm not saying I question that even, right?
I'm looking at Paul's letters and I'm going three shipwrecks.
Go into Josephus and look about what he says.
And by the way, I think he spins there's like 72
chapters or not chapters, but like it's very long what he spends here in Acts
and very, very blip here in Paul's actual letters.
And if you go and look at Richard Purvo's commentary, the Harmonia commentary,
and you read this, it's really interesting because Paul says he's shipwrecked three times.
Oh, and by this, by this, by this, I did this and I did that.
Dude, he's flexing.
Go back, pull up that example that you just had.
Do you have it?
Yeah, I do.
Pull that out.
This is exactly what me and McClatchy probably would have ended up with.
You would have because I know he wanted to challenge me on this,
some of the stuff that's in Paul's letters.
He goes straight up to Paul's letters and goes, how could this person have known in Acts
all of this detail?
And it's like, your point, if you're saying, hey, they know Paul's letters and he has a shipwreck,
so did Josephus, so several people.
Yeah, so scroll up.
Three times I was beating mods.
Once I was pelted with stones, three times I was shipwrecked.
I wanted to pull up the whole example to Corinthians 11.
Oh yeah, it's right here then.
Yeah, so not 25, not just 25.
Five times I received from the Jews the 40 lashes, that one.
I'm going to pull up the whole thing.
OK, yeah, then I never had that one up then.
Yeah, the reason is, if you know the context here, Paul's flexing.
I agree.
I don't doubt that at all.
Yeah, he's flexing in a humble, quote unquote way.
That's a whole other question though, because the question of,
is Luke Acts using material that he thinks is historical is one question.
Right.
He can be looking at this epistle to the Corinthians.
And still thinking, Paul really did have a shipwreck.
It doesn't matter, you point to see that's his source.
Exactly, and I'm calling into question what Paul's saying about himself here.
Three shipwrecks, and the reason is, go read Josephus,
go read other figures who are claiming all these shipwrecks.
Maybe he did.
Maybe he did, but I am convinced that what we're reading in Acts is literary.
Sure.
Yet, this literary composition we call Acts is using Paul.
This is the point.
He knows Paul's letters and is creating a narrative about it.
And I was just reading before we ended up going live,
but I ended up closing it like a really deep composition about narrative,
biography, novel, the whole nine and how they wrote these things, what they did,
how they would even create fake figures, fictional characters,
into these things and all of it.
Did you know that when, I think it's Plutarch,
it might have been Suhtoni, I don't know.
And one of the stories about Mark Antony's death, when Augustus and Agrippa are closing
in on Egypt from both sides, knows it's over, he sent, or Mark Antony kills himself,
stabs himself in the chest.
And one of the messengers of Antony takes the sword and brings it to Augustus,
and the author, I think it's Plutarch, and Octavian wept for his lost brethren.
And it's like, that didn't happen.
This is all narrative.
He wanted to go kill him.
This is a disproves me.
So when you're writing a story, whether it's historical or not,
you're going to make it sound like Romeo and Juliet.
Isn't it like what Justin, or isn't Julius Caesar, I thought,
who went down there and they decapitated?
Pompey.
Pompey.
And he cried, he was pissed, but then he was angry.
That actually happened, right, yeah.
But it could have, but it's like, the point is, it was very common
when you write historical biographies to spruce it up a little bit.
Oh yeah, well, I wouldn't even call them historical.
Sometimes these are just, you know, they're just, well, a biography may have
verisimilitude to something in history, but itself, it's a narrative composition.
They're not writing you history.
They're giving you a story and it's extremely propagandistic.
Every term the Jews are blamed and they're guilty.
And not only are they guilty, they're like John calls them children of Satan, right?
Well, Luke acts literally considers them people who every time they turn around,
want to murder Christians.
Every time they try to stone them, they try to kill them.
They want to murder them.
In fact, Stephen was murdered, right?
So like you have who are the guilty Jews?
Who are the innocent but are accused of being guilty?
Christians over and over and over.
There's so many literary things too that connect Luke to what's going on in Acts.
It's a composition, not a history of what actually happened.
There's a pattern to it.
And so when you start seeing the pattern, when you start seeing what's going on,
this author is definitely doing some sexy stuff to make this story interesting.
Real quick, real quick.
Constellation, I screenshot your super chat.
Oh, yeah.
I hope that my brain, my fickle brain remembers to ask this question.
When we review that debate next Wednesday, I think the 31st, whatever day that is.
And then Constellation asks, was the Odyssey considered a religious text?
Can't remember.
I don't know if I would call it a religious text.
I would say it was sacred for sure.
Yeah.
It absolutely was.
Odysseus absolutely was a figure in religion in the religious world of Greece,
who was looked at as like a hero, semi-divine.
Like you were, if you went into a temple, you see Odysseus on the wall,
even if it was a temple of Zeus or something.
This is, they're singing, they're singing Homer's Odyssey.
Yeah.
At these, in these temples.
That's like their, that's what they're doing.
So absolutely, absolutely it's a religious text.
And just look, Adam Green is in the chat and I'm not interested in the constant polemics
against Jewish people, the way that I have seen him do in the past.
I have no interest for that.
And I get a lot of people who comment that I can tell come from you, Adam.
But blaming Jews for rejecting Jesus is a literary device to fulfill prophecy.
Robin, Robin Walsh.
Here's the deal.
Yes, it's a literary project to make Christians innocent.
And yeah, you could say fulfill prophecy, but in Luke acts, the blaming of Jews is a literary
propaganda to make Christians innocent and blame Jewish people for what's happening.
Your proposition is Jews invented this to be guile and trick Gentiles into accepting this
position.
I don't see Jews inventing that they're the guilty people in this entire process of Luke
acts that's going on.
So I would say it's much muddier than the proposition you put up that Jews invented
this whole thing and are trying to trick all guile Gentiles into this religion.
But that's, that's just my two cents.
I figure since I saw him in the chat there, I just make the point that yeah, maybe there is some,
they think this fulfills prophecy.
But Jews themselves, I do not see as literary, literally trying to do this and trick at their
own, you know, they get killed over and over through history by Christians because of this
text being so blatantly blaming of them.
They're going to do it.
Not interested in thinking that's what's going on.
So can I jump back a second?
I just want to make that because we're talking about how history,
kernels of truth exist in history.
But it can be written so legendary that it's basically myth at this point.
I think this is the best example.
And it's from Suetonius.
Life of Augustus.
It's such a good example.
It's going to remind you.
It's going to remind you of a story that you know.
Julius Marathas informs us, this is Suetonius writing this,
that a few months before the birth of Augustus, there happened at Rome a prodigy.
I just read this the other day.
A prodigy is a star in the sky, lightning, whatever, some sort of sign, right?
By which was signified that nature was in travail with the king of the Roman people.
And that the Senate, in alarm, came to the resolution that no child should be born that year.
But the monks, them, who was wise or pregnant to secure themselves a chance at that dignity,
took care of that decree that the Senate should not be registered in the treasury.
Look at this.
You have a star in the sky signifying a king of the world, and you have a treasury,
and you have a power, people in power who want, like, so instead of Herod,
Senate, instead of Jesus, Augustus, instead of a star, it's a prodigy.
Well, instead of a star, it's a lightning bolt prodigy that strikes the wall of Gete.
Yeah.
But the point is, you still have a register in there and all that.
Like, it's the story looks like it lines up, but this is not the only place you see this,
and this is other places, too.
Then it says, I find in the theological books of the sleepy 80s,
that Attia, upon attending at midnight a religious salamity in honor of Apollo,
when the rest of the mages retired home, fell asleep on her couch in the temple,
and that serpent immediately corrupt up to her, and soon withdrew.
She, awakening, purified herself as casual after the embraces of her husband,
and instantly there appeared upon her body a mark in the form of a serpent,
which she could never after could have effaced,
in which obliged her, during the subsequent part of her life,
to decline the use of public baths.
Augustus, it was added, was born in the 10th month after,
and for that reason, was thought to be the son of Apollo.
And so, you had this miraculous birth story.
You had this idea of the evil Senate trying to kill all the babies.
Yep.
And so, like, did that really happen?
Christians, you really think that happened?
No, of course you don't think that happened.
There's a lot of verisimilitude there, though.
I mean, there's a lot of places and things that are real things.
I mean, obviously, they would probably say that didn't happen.
Augustus really was born that year.
There was a Senate that year.
We don't know if they were really trying to kill anybody,
but that was part of the Roman Republic years.
So, the historical kernel is Augustus was born during the Republic.
Right.
Augustus ends up being the first emperor.
So, the historical truth is he does reverse this whole Senate power thing.
It's just not this way.
Right.
This is all hindsight, legendary stuff.
You don't understand what I'm saying?
I love that book, and I just pulled it off because I read it the other day,
and it's just, I love looking at that birth narrative
because there's so much that does compare to Matthew,
and this is really, really interesting.
In my opinion, there's a lot here that reflects what you see.
The same thing with Herod the Great trying to kill the kids, the whole nine.
Yeah, and they compare him to Alexander the Great.
They say, look at this.
That was the point I highlighted.
And he goes to the grove of Bacchus,
and the priests, they pour the wine on the flame,
and it flames up, and then it descended above the roof of the temple,
and reached to the heavens, a circumstance
which had never happened to anyone except for Alexander the Great.
So what is the author trying to say?
The author is trying to say that Augustus is going to be the greatest thing
next to Alexander the Great.
Nothing has been as great as this person until now.
Until Alexander the Great is the greatest ever,
but now we have a new Alexander the Great.
It's a really good way to make your story.
You mean to tell me they're trying to say Octavian is a better Alexander the Great?
Ooh.
Jesus could never be a better anyone else.
He's just, you know, he can't be a better Moses or Elijah or King David.
He's not a better Joseph or Joshua.
Come on.
Are you kidding me?
So we're willing to grant the Jewish antecedent.
We're not willing to go to the Greek side.
I think that's silly.
It's all written in Greek.
It's targeting mostly Greek Gentile audiences.
This is really obvious to me that you're not going to take something that's,
you know, not something familiar with
and not imitate it to try and get people to see your figure is the better one.
We done that.
We did the imitation just on the shipwreck and we spent quite a bit of time on that.
I do want to get into another one that I think is important.
Yeah.
It's your favorite one.
So why can't we go there?
I wanted to do Uticus and get into what happens with Uticus and unlucky and lucky.
I can't think right now.
But I want to get a year, Clea.
So let me pull up page 270 because this was the one that your jaw dropped when he first heard this.
And you went, are you serious?
Yeah, this is my favorite one by far.
I heard this one.
McDonald had sold me at this point.
I said, this is too much.
This is too good.
That's what I said.
And McDonald is a B-A-M-F, a badass mother.
You guys have been killing it.
Thank you, Usual.
Both in your own ways.
I am stoked.
Derek and Neil, you have started a movement.
Nice.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
Seriously, do appreciate that.
Super Chat.
Love the support and appreciate everybody in the chat.
They did pop your YouTube channel.
Pragmatic Crystal.
Thank you for doing that for us.
Thank you, Pragmatic.
I really appreciate that.
Plug the heck out of Nasdaq for me.
Go check them out.
And then we got another one.
Christie here with a Super Chat.
Seriously, appreciate that support.
I'm going to get this your clay here just one second while I do.
Press one if you likey.
I always add the E at the end there.
Likey, press one.
And press two, if no comment.
Press one if you likey.
All right.
Gina McDonald says, you think Jesus is like Asclepius?
Sure.
Oh.
Why not?
Why not?
He's a better one than Asclepius.
You know who else?
So this is perfect to bring this up.
Ashman.
Now, Derek, are you familiar with Ashman?
I showed you before.
Yes.
Yes.
Can I just pull up my tag that I have?
You may, my friend.
You may.
All right.
Oh, let's see.
Ashman.
This is going to shock some people, I think.
I really do.
I want to explore Ashman.
I'm trying to find some scholars who write about Ashman.
It's not a lot.
It's like those are like the middle of the 20th century people.
Real quick.
I just got to address this while you're bringing this up here.
Yeah.
Why are atheists so obsessed about Jesus?
So I don't know.
Well, why not?
I just want to just point out something.
There's only over 2 billion people who worship the guy.
I mean, it's not like people aren't obsessed about Jesus,
who believe in him.
I mean, it's not like people who believe
aren't impacting us socially, ethically.
It's not like people in my family aren't suffering
from trauma through the religious stuff
of believing hell's a real place.
It's not like this is something worth trying to dissect
and take away those harms to give you real education
on what's actually happening.
It's not like that's worth it.
And we have people in our government right now,
not to get too political, but let's be real.
Marjorie Green-Taylor, Lauren Brobert,
and others who literally invoke Christianity
for their ways of pushing law and like forcing laws
that affect people's lives because the Bible said so.
So if you want it?
We have people in our Senate right now who claim
that they think that we should have a theocracy,
that the government should be listening to the church.
And if you think I'm making this up, I made a video on this.
Just watch my video and then if I'm wrong,
you know, write me a comment or something.
But I'm not just making this up, trying to scare people.
It is legit.
People in our government do want there to be a Christian.
I just want to make the point, though, that the comment,
though, is a worthy one.
Why do ex-Mormons, like the backyard professor
who's in our chat right now,
why do people like him in every video go in and show you,
and there he is right there, show you how Joseph Smith wasn't
right, the Book of Mormon is man-made,
show you flaws and problems, the Book of Abraham,
then the list goes on and on, debunking the religion he was
obsessed with and worshiped the guy and practically followed.
Why is it that ex-Muslims talk about Islam and Muhammad
and debunk the Quran and spend their time doing that?
Sure, there is some animosity being kind of pulled over your head.
You've been tricked for so long to think this is the truth.
Absolutely.
But at the same time, there's a point in which,
while you're debunking something,
you're also falling in love with the reality
of what it actually is, not what you've been told.
And that is knowing what this literature really is.
I mean, if this literature is written as mythic,
cultic practicing, storytelling, interesting narratives,
not literal, don't take this too far,
what we've seen become the power struggle
and the literalness of it over time with our creeds
and our political gain of you need to believe
our particular version of Christianity in the whole nine
and then tell the whole world they're going to hell be damned.
If you don't, we're trying to win it back
away from the grips of people like that
because I don't think that's how it was initially intended.
I really don't.
I really don't think that's how it was initially intended.
But, you know what I mean.
I agree.
All right.
This is from encyclopedia.com
and it's got tons of sources on the bottom.
You can check out and look into this stuff.
And that's what I'm just letting you know.
This is what I'm just going to read.
I'm just reading through this because I don't have anything myself.
Like, I don't have any like...
Ashman, Phoenician healer God later identified with the Sclepius.
I mean, you even have writers such as
Philo of Biblos, I think it is, who says that he is the
Sclepius of Beirut.
I'll show you that in a second.
The Patriot of Medicine by the Greeks.
And by the way, the reason why I'm reading this
is because of the super chat or if you want to pull that up.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Which one?
Ashman.
Absolutely.
Or can Jesus be like a Sclepius?
Right.
When I heard, when I said Sclepius, I wanted to pull this up.
Okay.
Because Ashman basically is a Sclepius of Beirut.
Okay.
He's the healer God.
He's got the...
He's depicted with holding with the staff with the serpent around it.
Anyways, he seems to be attested since the third millennium BCE.
That's it.
Oh, we're going back to Cuneiform days before the alphabet.
Though his physiognomy becomes clear only in the first millennium.
The etymology of Ashman clearly connects him with oil.
Think about what is a Christ?
What is a Messiah?
The oiled one, right?
Oil, which had a therapeutic and ritual functions.
By the way, this is a cult that's right above Galilee.
Right above Galilee.
In relationship with the kingship in the Near East, the Abla archives,
the theophoric element Shmanua is found in some personal names,
written in Sumerian, meaning oil.
In the ritual text of Ugarit in the Late Bronze Age,
the God Shmon is mentioned as a beneficiary of offerings.
Ultimately, nothing is known about the functions or the role
of this God in the Syrian pantheons.
But his connection with oil must indicate that he was the one who oils.
The one who heals.
This surely is the main reason why Ashman was later assimilated with Asclepius.
So at least we know that that, at least that much about this deity,
that the Greeks thought it worthy of assimilating Ashman into Asclepius.
Yeah, I just wanted to touch on this for one more second, because he's the son of Sidic.
Okay, this is crazy.
Sidic, think about this.
Melchizedek, this is the same group.
Oh, you skipped his occasional interpretatio as Apollo, for example,
in Carthage is also based on the same background,
because Apollo was also a salvific God, right?
Okay, so the reason why we know this, there's two tombs that,
by the way, there's a tomb of Ashman in Lebanon, his burial site.
But there's also these two kings, Ashmanazer and Ashmanazer II.
If you translate his name, Ashman saves.
That's the name of Ashmanazer.
He's a saver.
He's a salvation God.
And he's the son of Sidic.
Sidic means justice.
Melchizedek is the root word.
Actually, I'm going to switch my source for a second real quick.
Okay.
I want to switch over to Melchizedek or this Sidic God real quick.
This is even more interesting, because Sidic, righteousness,
and then you could even go down, because people are already,
you've got all these sources that are hypothesizing that Sidic is like this.
They're connected.
Like the Jews that were the, what are the, is it Sadducees?
Yeah.
There might be some sort of connection with the Sadducees in this.
Now, that's whatever.
That's the hypothesis.
That's fine.
But check this out, right?
When you go to Ashman, and I'm going to get to his myth in a second.
His story is even wilder.
He is, so Sidic, Sidic, or Sidic, whatever his name is, has seven sons with a God,
and then another eighth son with a mortal woman.
The diascuri.
Yeah, that's the name of this.
Dude, listen, the diascuri is mentioned by Justin Martyr when he compares Jesus
with the sons of Zeus and the diascuri.
Right.
Yeah, this is fine.
He literally compares Jesus directly with this name.
Now, this is something I noticed that no one else is talking about.
Okay.
He's the eighth son, right?
Well, so I've, I've, I noticed that Jesus' Gematria is 888.
That's like way in the weeds, but no, no, no.
This is, this is better.
This is better.
Guess who's, guess who's the eighth son in the Bible?
Ready for this?
I can't remember who was, I remember something, but I can't remember.
David is the eighth son of Jesse.
Jesse has seven sons to one mother, and David is by himself to another.
Come on.
You don't see that?
I mean, numbers, man, I got to have like tons of tons of data for me to get into,
but I do see that that, I mean.
He's a liar.
He's a messiah.
He's the anointed king.
This is good point.
So now you've got oil, right?
Who had the oil poured over them?
Only David, right?
He's the eighth son.
And they placed a liar.
You got the Apollo imagery there.
So you would need to get a list for me, right?
I'm very cautious to even accept stuff.
I know, I know.
But if we had a list, and we were saying,
this checks off, at least I see something of a mirage.
No, I don't pay me for this.
This does not prove it at all.
Yeah, but dude, this could be, it could be.
It could be, right.
I'm throwing out, I'm throwing out hypothesis.
The last thing I want before we end up,
before we, we're done with the last one.
I want to get to your Euryclia stuff.
Yeah, I want to.
Because I have something of a surprise.
I gotta read this though.
This is the story.
The story of Eshman.
Is it in here?
I think it was in here.
Ophotius, saying that Esclepius of Beirut was a youth
who was fond of hunting.
So you already had this like, is it like a Donus?
A Donus is a hunter, right?
He was seen by the goddess Estrone,
or Astarte, which is like a Middle,
Near Eastern Venus goddess type,
who so harassed him with amorous pursuit in desperation.
He castrated himself and dies, he dies.
Estrone, the name the peon healer restored him from life,
from the warmth of her body,
and then changed him into a god.
He has an apotheosis.
He comes back, he returns from his death.
I mean, this, this is so even this.
Dying, rising, eddus.
I was gonna say, this is not just that he,
so he resuscitates, right, comes back from the dead
the same way you kind of see Jesus depicted
coming back from the dead,
and in his picture in Luke and John,
as physically alive, right, and back,
but has become a god.
This blew me away.
I never thought about this like this,
which you're bringing up here, Neil,
because Richard C. Miller brings up the reason
Thomas has to touch Jesus side,
and then when he does his immediate response,
if you pull up the source in John chapter 20,
or whatever it is,
he says, my Lord, my God,
after he knows he's physically alive again,
according to the narrative, of course.
Well, that was the symbol of someone becoming a god.
The way you knew they were God is if they were really dead,
and they came back,
but they were physically actually in a body,
they had become a god.
That's why there's a confusion of them
being a phantom or a ghost,
and in the Thomasian tradition,
which is very Gnostic,
they thought he was phantom-y.
They said, no, he's a god,
which is why Thomas is my Lord, my God, you know.
Last thing I want to say,
this is my final word on Eshbun.
So when you read that myth right there,
there was a lot of syncretisms happening.
He's a hunter like a donus.
He castrates himself and died as like Eddus,
he's a healer like Asclepius.
That's like a lot of,
there's also some Tammuz stuff going on there.
This is way before Jesus.
So you already have, in the Near East,
right where Galilee, right north of Galilee,
like we're talking 45 minutes from Galilee,
half an hour away.
We're right there.
You can look on a map.
I'll show you if you want.
Well, that's whatever.
You can look that up yourself.
You had this synchronistic healer dying
and rising vegetation God,
right where Jesus shows up.
And what I'm saying is,
some of these early Christians are thinking
of Jesus in this way.
So I'm wondering, is this how Jesus gets legendized?
That's, what's the name of the guy,
the early Christian?
The Nassian preacher.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Nassian preacher had an eddus.
And the hymn to eddus,
blessed one, whether you're born of Chronos,
Zeus, or Rea, I loudly hail the eddus.
You, the Assyrians, call Thrice, Desire, Donus.
Egypt calls you Osiris.
We always talk about Osiris in Jesus.
Sam, when Thracians call you Adamus,
Phrygians, Papis, a corpse,
that's dying and rising image right there,
a God and fruitful goat, green here,
fruitful almond bore player of the pipes.
He took that Homeric hymn to eddus
and then reapplied it to Jesus.
So already you have a Nass,
what we categorize as a Nostic Christian
who's already taken a Homeric hymn
and applying it to Jesus.
Okay, we not only have that,
Dennis talks in his book several,
several pages in the back towards,
toward the back of this book here,
where he goes in and shows you
that ancient Christian authors,
not that early that we have in terms of
what he does with the Chintones,
but he shows the Homeric Chintones
of later seventh, eighth century Christians
rewriting gospel narratives in the Greek,
in the Homeric,
pretty much rewriting them in a Homeric tone, right?
But you also have the non-canonical material,
several, I think they're pseudopigrapha
or I used that term the other day,
I may have meant apocryphal.
Anyway, yeah, the apocryphal writings.
And Dennis has shown,
and his work has been accepted,
you had Burke on, Tony Burke,
who was like, this guy wrote a masterpiece
showing that this apocryphal writing
is using Homer.
And we're all convinced of that.
Everybody's got that.
Okay, many people, not just Dennis,
so Dennis isn't crazy in the eyes of people,
except the Luke Axe stuff,
at least the shipwreck.
They think Uticas is definitely,
it got a connection to,
P word comes to mind,
lucky and unlucky or unfortunate.
El Panor.
El Panor, yeah.
So there's that connection.
I don't want to go into that one today
because we've already did that the other day with Dennis.
I want to get into Euryclia.
So Euryclia.
All right, Mark's anointing.
If you haven't bought Dennis's book,
I swear on it.
If you have a hard time reading,
you can get the course,
get the book with it,
so you can actually follow along.
We have a course with Dennis,
where we go through this example,
we go through 17 other examples in extensive detail.
Let me read,
actually, you know what, Neil?
I don't want you to be bored out of your mind.
Let me read this paragraph,
and then you're going to actually read the text.
Sure.
This is from the Odyssey.
The woman who anoints Jesus for his burial in Mark
surely imitates the famous Homeric,
Niptra, or washing by Euryclia.
Odysseus is nurse,
who recognized the scar on his thigh
while washing his feet.
And there's the reference.
Here are the most relevant lines
where Penelope speaks to Euryclia
about the renown
that comes to those who show hospitality.
Now, I don't know if it's not going to show you this.
Go back and read the Odyssey,
and you're going to find
one of the housemaidens
is treating this beggar homeless man
that's really Odysseus.
Remember in Mark,
nobody knows who Jesus is.
Nobody knows who Odysseus.
They don't know this is Odysseus.
His identity is hidden.
And one of the maidens at the house,
not Euryclia, but another one
that does what Euryclia does,
kind of like a housemaid and her slave at this time,
she treats him like crap.
Get out of here, you homeless beggar.
And Penelope flips the script on her and says,
they use the vernacular, by the way,
if you're interested in actually hearing real language
the way it says.
She says something like,
you bitch, get in the house.
I can't remember what it was,
but she says something raw in the Odyssey.
And so she goes in and then Euryclia
actually shows the hospitality like you should,
which is why she has renowned far and wide.
Now, please read this, Neil.
And do I need to zoom in?
Oh, I got it.
Does that help?
If one is noble and of noble heart,
strangers carry one's fame far and wide
to all peoples and many speak of one's excellence.
Then Prudent Penelope said to him, the beggar again,
dear stranger, never before has a man so prudent
of dear strangers from afar, come here to my house.
So thoughtfully prudent as you are in everything that you say.
I have an old woman with a wise heart in her breast
who nursed well and cherished that unlucky man.
Wise Euryclia arise now and come,
bathe this man who is the same age as your Lord.
And the old woman took the gleaming basin
to wash his feet and poured into it lots of cold water
and then drew the hot.
But Odysseus sat at the fireplace.
So she approached and began to wash her Lord.
Immediately she recognized the scar
that a boar long ago had gouged with a white tusk.
After touching Odysseus' beard, she said,
you surely are Odysseus, dear child.
I did not recognize you before.
Now, not until I touched the whole body of my Lord.
I mean, bro.
So later she anointed him richly with oil.
Melantho, sister to Melantheus, daughter of Dolios, deceitful,
had complained about Penelope's generosity.
Remember what the Pharisees said if he knew this woman?
You remember they were complaining
about what this woman was doing to Jesus?
Well, they're complaining about what Euryclia is doing
and about Penelope's generosity to the foreign beggar,
which is her husband, by the way, the whole damn time.
Odysseus then rebuked her for discrimination against the poor.
Wow.
Yes.
I was thinking about that part too.
Yeah, because remember now, Jesus chains it and you're going to find out.
He changes it.
We're going to talk about that because he says,
you always have the poor with you, but not me.
And you have to realize in both of these texts,
these are central to the story because this is both of their anointing
and both of their recognition of them being, in Jesus' case, the Messiah.
In this case, the master, the Lord, the returning Lord,
who everyone thought was dead.
Bingo.
And they did not recognize.
You have to realize how central these two passages are for it to make sense.
Otherwise, you're just like, well, yeah, you got the oil.
Okay.
I see that.
Oh, the feet, the rubbing feet, that's enough.
No, no, no.
It's more than that.
So many.
And we're going to read the boxes now.
We're going to read the boxes.
And Penelope accused her of having committed a monstrous act of inhospitality.
So that's the woman, I believe it was, that was being rude.
Here's an image on the left for anybody that Euryclia washes
and anoints Odysseus' feet and recognizes him from his boyhood scar.
Addix Skifos, 440 BCE, Museum Archeologico, Italy used with permission from Art Resource.
Just to show you up close, that's what the image is.
All right.
Now, as Mark Jesus was eating a woman carrying an expensive stone,
I will get to your super chat soon, everybody,
but a woman carrying an expensive stone jar broke it and poured a precious ointment over
his head and down his body.
She recognized what the disciples had not, that he soon would die,
and his body would need anointing.
The twelve scolded her for not caring for the poor.
But Jesus insisted that she committed a beautiful act that would be remembered far
and wide, renowned.
The name Euryclia means far flung fame.
And Homer punned on it in Penelope's statement to her in Odyssey 19,
and there's your source.
If one is noble and of noble heart, strangers carry one's fame far and wide to all peoples,
and many speak of one's excellence.
Luke redacted Mark's account in his transformation of the pericope peccatory.
So here is the, I guess, do we want to read the mark?
Or do we just want to skip ahead and where is this box?
Hold on.
The betrayer scheme.
Maybe this is it.
Telemachus was amazed.
No, that's not it.
That's not the box I wanted.
I don't think.
Let me see.
Is it?
Yes.
I think this combines.
So it's combining a betrayer scheme.
And let's just let's just go ahead and read this here.
You read Odyssey.
I'll read Mark.
All right.
Telemachus was amazed at the great light shown on the walls of his house.
Odysseus interpreted the light as the presence of Athena, wisdom goddess.
One of Jesus's disciples was amazed at the great buildings at the Jerusalem temple.
Jesus predicted that these buildings will be destroyed.
Odysseus went to Penelope and sat.
Okay.
I'm not sure we're in the right box here, man.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
I do.
Later on it becomes that, but you have to combine multiple things.
I was hoping to just highlight.
Go back up a little bit.
You're right.
There was no box for that one.
He just read them both side by side.
Yeah, because he gets into it.
I think down here.
Oh, wait, wait.
This is it.
He's giving prophecies.
A woman entered.
Here it is.
Down here.
So I'm going to just let you start here since we're done with your clay out.
Okay.
Yeah, you're right.
Let's do this after giving his prophecies.
You're right.
You're right.
After giving his prophecies to Penelope, Odysseus disguised as a beggar sat by himself.
After giving these prophecies to four disciples, Jesus sat at a table in the humble home of a leper.
Eurycleia entered with a bowl of water to wash his feet.
Later, she anointed him with generously with oil.
A woman entered with an expensive jar of ointment and poured the contents on Jesus' head.
When she recognized her master, she dropped his leg into the brass vessel, spilling the water.
She broke the jar to release the oil.
She alone recognized her king.
She alone recognized that Jesus soon would die.
That's big.
But Melantho had objected to Penelope's generosity to the poor.
Not showing hospitality to Odysseus, the beggar, was performing a monstrous act.
People objected that the ointment could have been sold and the money given to the poor.
Jesus told them she had performed a beautiful act.
There's that polemic.
That switch.
Yep, switch it up.
Turn the story.
Sequence of events there.
Story flipped.
Yep.
Eurycleia means renowned, far and wide.
Penelope told her that one who welcomes strangers will have fame far and wide.
It's literally a pun on her name.
Yep.
Jesus said, wherever the good news is proclaimed throughout the world,
what this woman has done also will be spoken of in her memory.
Basically saying she'll be known far and wide too.
Like there's that fame aspect.
Odysseus and Eurycleia discussed the disloyalty of some of the slaves.
Like I said, the slave woman that was being rude to the poor.
Then Judas Iscariot went to the chief priest for the purpose of betraying him.
So it continues off into.
Yeah, you had that disloyalty, betraying aspect.
Now, but this is the biggest thing here to like the reason why this is.
I think this is the biggest one is because like I mentioned before,
this is how central this passage is in both of these characters story.
They're both being recognized.
One in one case, the Messiah and the other case, the master who returned from war.
I mean, everyone's saved now.
The house is going to be fine.
All these bad suitors, they're all going to be gone now.
This is a huge turning point in this house.
So it's a salvation aspect in both cases.
In both cases, their feet are being rubbed and being anointed with oil.
I think the reason Dennis had those boxes come up the way we skipped ahead
just to get to the Eurycleia part is because exactly what you're describing here, Neil.
Why is Odysseus returning home?
Why is he why is he hidden?
He doesn't want them to find out who he is or they might kill him.
This is why Jesus, after he does a healing or does something, please go tell no one.
Tell no one.
Don't tell him.
It's not my time.
I'm not ready.
They will try to kill him.
Once the time comes, Jesus dies.
Instead, Odysseus kills the suitors in the home.
But he also wants to bring it up because right after this scene,
you have Jesus on this Mount of Olive situation where he's telling his disciples,
hey, check it out.
You see these temple buildings and all the stuff?
Yeah, not one stone will be left upon another.
This around this period is when he cleanses the temple.
And when he's in there, he said,
you've turned my father's house into a den of thieves.
And you people in here, you're done.
Just so you know, you're done.
That's what happens to the suitors in Odysseus's story.
They all get finished in the end because they had turned Odysseus's house
really into they were eating all and drinking all.
Donald didn't mention that it's really,
it might be interesting in the sense of Christians looking back at Odysseus
because there's a there's a there's a legend of the birth of Pan.
And the birth of Pan is that all the suitors all had intercourse with Penelope
while Odysseus was gone and she gave birth to Pan.
Is that part of it?
Yeah.
So really?
So the Christians might be looking back as like, you know,
she was evil and she gave birth to this wicked Pan.
They remember, I'm just saying like, this is, I'm thinking like,
if I was a Christian, how would I, how would I see that verse?
And so in the same sense, they're looking at the temple's
Sadducees and saying that they're like people who give birth to demons.
I was thinking about our trip when we were up there in the Galilee
and you and me went to the region where the temple of Pan was.
I almost want to find that and play that because it was such a heck of a moment.
But in that moment, that's where Jesus says, who do men say that I am?
Like, some say you're John the Baptist or some, I'm sorry, some say you're Elijah,
some say this, you know, they're all making guesses.
I wonder if there is like a floating understanding among people who are
in the world at that time, something to do with this.
I don't know. But the temple of Pan's right there where the, where the temple built by
Herod the Great for Augustus was. And this is at Caesarea Philippi.
Yeah. And it's not that, and it's around that time when people start looking at Pan is like a
demonic figure. Interesting. There's so much here, man.
I got some super chats. So we got to let's hit some of these supers and then continue because
like there's the imitation to me, I'll put it simple.
If we did an airplane view without getting lost into the exact details, because if you get lost
into the exact details, like if you're absolutely trying to look at a specific pericope and go,
Oh, well, hold on. That's not exactly what we see over here in Odysseus.
This is not exactly what we see over here missing out on how canonical Homer was.
As Dennis said, they had like 600 manuscripts that have survived
from this period. The time around the gospels are written. We only have, I think it's four
or five Septuagints that have survived. So you have four or five Septuagints that we have that
survive in some way, shape or form. We have 600 of Homer, which one had a bigger impact on
Greek written literature? Obviously Homer. That doesn't mean the Septuagint was not important.
We know that the gospels are referencing them because they say it is written.
But as Rick Miller has pointed out, and I'm sure Dennis probably would echo this,
you don't have to tell a Jew, Hey, check this out. This is how we do our customs or, Hey,
it is written over here. You don't find that in Jewish literature that's literally only aimed at
Jewish people. They already know this. However, you might find someone say it is written in case
you didn't know this because you probably don't know it is written. And here I'm going to quote.
So it's kind of funny. It's like you wouldn't tell me I'm an insider unless I don't know where
scripture is. So he kind of wonders, you know, is it saying it is written so that the reader
understands, oh, this is Jewish scripture. That's why we have to tell you it is written
because they wouldn't know it if it was. And that's an interesting perspective to think about it as.
I never really thought of it that way. Interesting. Yeah. Interesting. Dual chronines in the house,
which means Alexander the Great is here. The human fingerprints are all over Christianity,
and the claim of exclusivity is absurd when one is familiar with history of other cultures,
religions. I mean, it's two horned one and Arabic dual car name. Yep. The human fingerprints are
all over Christian. Yeah, I agree. I love it. Good point. I mean, the claim of exclusivity is absurd.
I mean, it is. I mean, because, well, first of all, we're talking about a text that's Greek.
Like, if it was going to, if you wanted to write a text and you wanted to be so exclusive,
why not write it in the tongue that it's in that region and no one else can read it, but you like,
no, you're right. This is a story for everyone. It's to the known world. Yeah. If you're trying
to connect with the world, you're going to do things that connect, which is appeal to what they like.
It's practical, man. I hasn't forgot to say this yet. The Old Testament's doing this too.
The Tanakh, the Torah, you can find it like, for example, when you look at like Deuteronomy and
Leviticus, the way they sacrifice for their festivals, the way they do sin offerings,
when they slug the cutting of the killing of the bowl and sprinkling the blood seven times,
you can find that all in pagan rites too, what we call pagan rites.
This is a good powerful point. Yeah, it's all the same shit.
What Neil's saying and to broaden what he's saying, you'll notice that the Hebrew author would use
things that are already commonly understood in the larger empires. So they don't have maybe the same
language as these larger empires, but when you get into Aramaic, yeah, you're talking about a much
larger audience. But even then, the polemics, look at Genesis. Genesis could have been its own
writing of its own unique Genesis. For a tooth, that's Hammurabi's law.
Well, that one, let's just put it this way. Let's pretend that that one's kind of a universal thing.
That's yeah, all right. Let's just pretend it's not right. I'm just saying there's some practices
that scholarship pointed out that only Assyrian laws have or Assyrian governmental practices
we find in the Bible or Babylonian or something like Mesopotamia with the creation myth.
I mean, the list goes on and on, but this is exactly the point.
Thank you, Duelkornein. Duelkornein again, Christianity, a graffiti artist that spray
paints their name on everything before them, Judaism, Plato, Aristotle,
mini facets of Hellenistic, Ralph Phil, I don't know. But yes, okay, okay, got it, got it.
Yeah, this is everyone has done this and everyone did this. Everyone does this.
This is the way it is. Even when they're trying to write something that's
polemical against other ideas. And I want to bring up the Quran because we see Arabic here
with Duelkornein might as well. I mean, look, the Quran is trying to react to people who think
Jesus is God and the Trinity is true. Yeah, it is absolutely reacting to this because it doesn't
they want to say it's not true. You know, and you mentioned earlier, you mentioned the Maccabees
but you're rejecting all the Hellenism. You find that anywhere you'll find that you'll find in Rome
in the 2nd, 3rd century BCE. If you read, if you read like Kato the Sensor, he's like,
I hate Greek stuff. I don't want to be Hellenized. We got to stick to our Roman
as Truscan roots. This idea of rejecting outside influence is not just in Judaism or just in
it's all it's anywhere you go, you're going to get that. It's just like and then look at the
results of what did Kato really? Did Kato stop Hellenism in Rome? No. Absolutely not, man.
That's just like part of the world that we're in. People reject it, people accept it,
you get a little bit of both. And dudes, like we said earlier in the show when you pointed out
Act 17, you can go to Paul's own letters and see this, but they're obviously not rejecting.
There's not a refusal to embrace the Greek Hellenistic ideas and their philosophy.
1 Corinthians 15 talking about the transformation, the pneumatic bodies that are being described there.
Guess what? Before Paul, this was well known in platonic thinking. However, Paul wants to do
something different than Plato. He wants to do something different than just completely shed
the body. He wants to transform it and giving pneumatic bodies, which might be more stoic.
Middle Platonism, Stoicism, it is impacting Paul and he cannot escape it.
Why do you think Josephus again had to have Moses ascend to heaven? They're competing. In
fact, that's the whole point when you were reading Philo to try and say, well, Moses taught Pythagoras.
They're finding ways to have the Jewish guys teach the Greek guys because they want to have
the leg up. The other guys are going BS. This goes back to Manito, where Manito is
condemning Moses as some type of sorcerer, a Hyksos that ends up getting kicked out of Egypt.
They don't want nothing to do with him. He had a leprosy or something. They condemn him.
They're doing this and Josephus is doing this and he has to be careful how much he does it.
Anyway, Tacitus, they're arguing...
Tacitus has this wild story. They're like, you know what? I heard they're from Crete.
They're from the island of Crete. They were chesedered and they have a donkey head in their
temple and all this. So, yeah, you got all...
So, tell them what the creek... When you say someone's from Crete in that world,
those are cuss words. That's like saying you're a liar.
Yeah. Oh, that's... There's a whole tradition that goes back to a myth between Medea and
Thetis, where they're arguing over who's the better looking goddess and Thetis wins somehow.
And then Medea is like... And this was on Crete where this happened.
You Cretans are liars forever and then Epimetides rolls along 6th century BCE, draws off that myth
and he quotes it and says, Cretans are liars, lazy, blah, blah, blah.
300 years after that, Calimacus in Alexandria, Egypt, he passes this tradition on.
So, this tradition is already long-standing for hundreds of years. Paul in the Epistleotitus...
Whether he wrote it or not.
Yeah, whoever wrote that is drawing from that as well. Quotes it verbatim.
Cretans are liars and lazy. So, this tradition goes back to Greek mythology.
So, it ends up there like... And then that Epimetides quote not only is in...
It's also a prophet too.
It's in Acts 17.
Acts 17, we live, we move, we have our being, whoever this author is in Acts 17 that claims Paul said,
okay, give it to Paul then. Paul said, and he uses Epimetides, a Greek poet from the 6th century BCE.
And he says, we move, we breathe. And that poem, by the way,
if you go to the original poem, it's about Zeus.
Right. Zeus being living. A living, not dead, but living.
Because they had a tomb. They had a tomb to Zeus.
So, yes. So, Paul's basically saying, if you don't believe in Jesus being the living one,
it's almost the same thing. Just replacing Zeus with Jesus, kind of.
That's it. It's again, adapting, syncretizing, connecting and co-opting, but also showing,
hey, this is the promised one. This is the real one.
It depends on how far you want to take it.
One might say, Zeus is Yahweh, which we've seen Jews do,
in the synagogue inscriptions in the diaspora out there in the nation.
Josephus mentions this. When Josephus writes about this letter between the Spartans and the
Sinomenian, or whatever, and the chiefs of Israel, and they're saying,
yeah, Zeus is Yahweh, basically. And we're all sons of Abraham.
So, everything's all good. Let's team up and fight against these Macedonians,
who we both hate. You know, artists, salutes, sins, or whoever it was.
Yeah. But anyways, yeah. So, you have that. And I think somewhere else in
Josephus, he says it again. I think when he's talking about the letter,
or when he's talking about when the Septuagint gets constructed,
he's basically, like, telling me the third or second was like,
Yahweh, we got to write all the books of Zeus from the Jews, basically.
Like, it's all the same stuff. He says something like that, but I don't know about that.
Right. Well, you and me went and saw the synagogue floors over there,
and there's Greek and Hebrew in those synagogue floors with Gentiles slash Jewish ideas,
names, the whole nine. Jamie Lynn Brunner, thank you for the super chat.
Really appreciate it. What did Bacchus and Jesus have in common?
So, the first thing that comes to mind, water and wine. I mean, if you're going to give...
And I am the true vine. My father is the husbandman. That's from...
That fruit tree is from the Bacchai. Like, you would hear that. But you would hear the
husbandman being more Saturn, because Saturn is the one who reaps. But it's very...
Actually, in the Orphic hymns, he is called Son of Saturn, one of the hymns.
So, it's weird. It's very weird how the Orphic hymns are. All the traits of gods are mixed and
matched, and then you end up hearing Bacchus is the son of Saturn, one of them, even though that...
So, it's kind of confusing, but I have a slide for that. Both were said to have had a human mother
and divine father. So, Semele being mortal. Both died surprising and violent deaths.
Their followers were accused of eating raw flesh. That's a big one, by the way.
Both... I think it's supposed to say both were corn spirits linked to the harvest,
and their devotees gathered in localized private associations. But the thing I think that should
have been on that list as well is the idea that both Bacchus and Jesus, when they come,
when they show up in the world, there's one thing and one thing only that they want,
that you devote to them. That's all he wants. He doesn't care what else you do.
If you look at the narrative to Neil, his family rejects him. In Mark, they don't accept him as
Son of God. If you notice that characteristic, and I don't know if that parallels intention or not,
but the family doesn't seem to recognize him as a Son of God, whereas Dionysus' whole problem
was that it was his uncle, who was it? What was the name of the pantheist,
who did not recognize him as Son of God? Once he did realize it, it was too late. There was no
mercy. Whereas with Paul, when that recognition happens, because the bright light, the same way
pantheist has a blinding bright light while he's up in the tree, the mine adds are in this trance,
he gets a blinding bright light on the road to Damascus, and instead of killing Paul, who deserved
death like pantheists, he shows Paul mercy instead. Jesus is better than Dionysus. Another
interesting thing, I like what you painted there, is that they both come back in some way. Now,
it's not identical. I think the Titans chew and rip his flesh, which is where they get the practice
of eating his flesh and drinking his blood when it comes to the grape, which is Dionysus.
Do you hear this in Jesus? I mean, this is almost verbatim what's happening here,
but the Titans chew him, eat him, and then somehow he comes back. Not sure exactly how that was. I
think he was drank through some type of drink, but he's reborn. And that's another thing is that
Chaikion was similar to a Eucharist because it was Demeter, and you were eating Demeter and
drinking Bacchus. And once you took, when you consume that meal, the gods were inside, they
would possess, they literally would possess you and save you. And then the word on the street was,
if you took apart these rites, you were saved from death. You no longer had fear of death.
You were saved. We see that. From the Eucharist, basically.
Zalmoxis, did you have anything to say about this weirdo named Zalmoxis? Does this have
anything to do with Dionysus in your estimation? Do you? So this is, this blew my mind.
Zalmoxis, the word Zalmoxis is actually cognate with the word, the Thracian word for Zemily,
Zalmoxis, Zemily, like Earthborn, which is also the same word, basically.
So Zalmoxis and Zemily's son is basically what it means. And so the Zalmoxis is like this very
Bacchic Thracian thing that's happening in a different part of the Thracian. And it's,
he's connected to this other god, Sabatios. And if you look at Sabatios, he's in the Orphan
too. And he literally is Dionysus. Like there's no, they're all the same god. Bro, and they throw
people up. I wanted to pull up the source because I love reading Herodotus on this. Yeah. And I
want to thank you, Neil. You meld me that book. If you did not meld me that book, I don't know
how long it would have been before I got the history. So much in Herodotus that you have to
know Herodotus. He's amazing. It's the first real historian history book that shows up on
father of history. Yeah. Well, I love that part where they throw the people up the men to try
and land on spears. And if they don't sufficiently die or whatever, then something's not right with
them, then they're not ready to go. They get the next person who's worthy as if dying is a good
thing. Sounds almost like martyrology where it's like dying is the good thing. If you die, you're
worthy. You're noble. They die. And then he has a supper with them where he tells them that they
will live forever, like promises them this. He's in a cave for like three years or something like
that. It was like three years. Exactly. Three years in the fourth year, he goes into an underground
chamber and they mourn for him for three years. And then in the fourth year, he comes back up again.
What else can I say? There's a lot in there that they say about him. And if you look at it,
he's basically connected to Sabatios, basically. There's another Thoracian deity. Now, while you're
looking at that, I want to say about Addis real quick. Yep. So both Addis and Jesus live in devotion
to a singular goddess or a god or goddess, you know, God the Father or in the case of Addis,
it's the mother. Both are betrayed, curating new religious rights. Jesus and Addis experience
a violent death and the arrestor acts as well. Both experience kind of life in and through death.
They're suffering in devotion to a goddess. That's an example. But that's the thing that I think
I was talking about as earlier with this Ashmoin character, right? This God from the Lebanon.
But right down the street in Syria, you have these rights practice every year in springtime.
And it's this March Madness, I guess you call it. And it's the day of blood
followed by March 5th, 25th. You would have a day of blood. And then three days later,
you'd have this day of washing. And this is all connected to like Addis and his death and rebirth
and initiation and being initiated into this universal cult that salvation is with.
And it's there's a lot going on there. There's a lot of death, man. I'm not trying to be like
HD and trying to know what I'm saying is this was a world where all these ideas are floating around
and they're very common. They're very they have a lot of commonalities together.
Human sacrifice and martyrdom and all of that. I think this is a common theme you're going to find
among various you're not saying they're identical. You're not trying to do that. But there may be
influence. Obviously, there may be. And that's what's interesting. I think Richard Miller says
where the gospel sprung up. You know, there's some people who want to argue Marx from Rome or
this place is from this person wrote from this way. We don't know for sure. We really just don't
know. And what they're doing, I'd rather have him talk. I'll butcher it if I end up trying to express.
But we did the videos. They're on my Patreon. There's I've got four left to show or edit. I mean.
Yeah. And that's another thing. This other. So Salmaxus is one of the names. But the other name
he gets is Gebel is this, which is Kaibeles is this. So in one sense, it's Semeli. And the other
sense is Kaibeli. But you can see how it's so much connected to these Thracian, this Thracian
religion, this Bacchic Kaibel, Kaibelian religion. It's just like what you're seeing is you're
seeing different sects of this sort of similar idea. You know, does that make sense? Yeah,
no, I get it. And like, look, as they said that his he gets killed by being speared if he dies
pierced. Right. There's all this all this crazy stuff happening. It's so weird, man. It is weird.
I have to admit, humanist reformation. It's interesting that the ancients reformed their
religions at the end of the age. And as we get close to the end of our age, we seem to be doing
the same thing. Is there something to the earth wobble? I used to think this when I was into the
whole idea, like the procession of the equinoxes and like having kind of a new agey feel about,
well, each time we get, you know, through a certain period on earth. And is there something to
Eratosthenes writes about this stuff and his stuff. But it's basically a universal clock.
It's basically just the map of the of the heavens. It's not like, and yeah, it's possible that
when you're drawing, you're when you're writing these, when they're writing these myths,
they're drawing from some of this stuff too. Right. It's hard to put your finger on where
when it's happening, because these are very vague concepts. I think what humanist reformation is
trying to do though, Neil, is suggests like the question goes a little further than that. Like,
yes, we observe the stars. We're observing it as a clock. We see this, but it's almost like
reverse that role instead of us just observing. And that's it. We're documenting it.
It's almost like when was I born yesterday? I did my birthday video. People were over and over and
over brought up. Oh, you're Jim and I, you're Jim and I, you're Jim and I, like as if born on a certain
day at a certain time in history, then sets a destiny and a personality for you. So therefore,
if you're like, it's almost like the time in which you're born or live and exist is going to,
you can't help, but that's the flow of nature and culture. And it's caused by the time in which
existence is and all of that. Like, there's some overarching sovereign fate that comes with the
destiny of the universe. I started Greeks thought this. Oh, yeah, without a doubt. The reason why
you look no further than the Alexander romance, the birth of Alexander, the person who's who's
when Olympia is giving birth, the guy's like, no, no, no, no, hold on. Don't give birth yet.
Because if you give birth now, he's going to be a son of Scorpio. You don't want that.
Wait five more minutes. Oh, wait, no, no, not yet. It's going to be Taurus. You don't want that either.
Oh, no, he can do it. I think it's like Capricorn. Yeah, Capricorn. That's a good one. He's going
to be king now. Right. You see what I'm saying. Third century BCE. Or I'm not saying he's just
suggesting the whole zodiac necessarily here. But this ties into the age of reforming religions.
But in the third or fourth century, I don't think this is necessarily the case, because
Buddhism started getting reformed. I'm not a Buddhist scholar. I just have heard this by
reading some some Buddhist scholar that knows Buddhist religion was reformed third, fourth
century. So if we're going to say the end of the age was happening for them, then I mean,
like, where do we draw the line? I'll say this in favor of Christianity right now.
Christianity comes off as a lot more mature, because they're trying to appease the Stoics
and Epicureans. They're trying to be like, yeah, we're not superstitious. We don't do sacrifices.
We don't care about doing like divining and all that. We just have faith. We just know that
we're like they don't have like they seem to be a little more on the skeptic side versus
like the people who were shipping like hundreds of years before that. I don't know, man. Well,
not like I don't mean I said. It depends on the person maybe because dude, I'm reading Ignatius,
his letter to the Romans is the nuttiest thing I have ever read from an early church Christian.
He literally begs. I can pull this up if you want. He begs the church in Rome. Do not try to
save me. I cannot wait to get eaten by the animals. Right. He's not saying he's not saying that we
should have a sacrifice tonight because the sacrifice. No, he wants to be this. He doesn't
care about what's in the stars anymore or sacrifice or checking the entrails of a bird.
They're not doing that. I don't know how that's not superstitious, though.
It's a different condom. Yeah, but your compare it's like today's standard are superstitious. Bro,
you're going to go and put yourself on purpose in the belly of animals to have your bones crushed
in tenues and your tissues ripped and you hope to have the worst fate possible during that process
because you'll have a greater reward in heaven. While they may not do entrails,
you yourself are begging for death. That's belief.
I don't know. I mean, that's just simple. He's just a nutcase, man. You know what I mean?
Right. I agree with that. I'm not saying that's not the case. Ignatious. If you're ever interested
and you want to be blown away, I did a video not too long ago on that and I read from it, but
you can go read Ignatious, Church Father, Saint Ignatious, Letter to the Romans. Go look that up.
You want to be blown away and hear someone who sounds suicidal to the core?
And that's actually what let me just put it this way. It's not just Ignatious, man.
No, it's a bunch of them. Paul. Paul says, I've been lashed. I've been whipped.
This flesh, this corruptible flesh, Ignatious repeats this and he wants to go to his death.
He wants to end this flesh. He can't wait for this to be over. Come on, man. It's crazy.
That's what I was reading. That's why I couldn't understand. I was living in insanity.
In my Christian years. All right. Be
Gadiantum. Forgive me if I butcher your name. As wild as the Bible source material is, you note
here. I must also add how wild it is that Joseph Smith wrote himself into Genesis, JST translation.
It doesn't shock me. And I'll give my personal opinion. You can tell me what you think.
Um, the reason I'm not shocked is because look at how Muslims say, look in the Bible,
it predicts Muhammad or like they find ways to like make it. But I haven't seen this.
So I'm curious to know. Be cool to see the source. But yeah, they do this every time.
Look at what Jesus does. I mean, they literally say every look in the Hebrew Bible,
every page you turn, you're going to find Jesus predicted. He's found there. It's
prophesied the same thing with Muhammad. Not, not nearly as bad, obviously, but it's there.
The name of Dennis's book. Synopses of epic tragedy and the gospels.
Synopses of epic tragedy and the gospels. All right. Continuing to the super chats.
Neil, we got a lot of super chats here, man. And you and me, we just have too much fun. This is
just what I'm waiting for. If you do not know Neil, if you have not subscribed to his channel,
if you have not joined his Patreon, I highly recommend it. You're supporting somebody who's
die hard, obsessed, crazy about the Greek world. He'll call me and go, dude, dude, listen.
You got a minute and I'm like editing a video. I'm like, I got a minute, Neil. I got a minute.
You know, and I'm like, look, check this out. You're going to be blown away. And then I'll
just sit there and then we wrap a trail into this deep, deep hole. And I'm going, oh my God.
It's because I'm the videos I'm working on. I'll find some shit and you're like, whoa,
it's just got to go into the video. It's got to go in the video. And I'll be like, you know,
and sometimes I like to throw it at throw it, bounce it off you just to be, because sometimes
you might be like, oh, wait, no, you know me. Dr. So, he's already addressed this. Nope. Get rid
of it. I'll be like, oh, shit. All right. Yeah. But sometimes I add to it. I'm testing stuff out.
I'm like a little, I'm like in a lab out here testing all these hypotheses out like, you know,
Well, your recent video, the Dionysian stuff in the Hebrew Bible back in the day in the Journal
of Higher Criticism, me and Bob went together on one and he wrote something on Joseph Jesus.
It was it was Osiris Joseph Jesus and then Josephus. But we didn't add Dionysus and we probably
could have because I found that wild, clear connection with Joseph going into the jail cell.
Again, we know Dionysus also was imprisoned and he escapes prison.
He goes in and the dreams that he interprets are very bocky.
Very. You've got grain and wine. Yep. Yep. And three days for one,
three days for the other one. One is condemned. The other one is brought back,
seated in the house with Pharaoh. And as he's leaving, this is what really highlighted it for me was
Joseph tells the wine bearer that's going back into Pharaoh's home.
Remember me. Don't forget me. And then I flip ahead to Jesus and he's saying, while drinking the wine,
the body and the blood, sorry, and then the bread, which is his body. And he's saying,
do this in remembrance of me. And I went, Ooh, what the heck? Well, Dionysus has the same supper.
So we're over here nerding out all the time when we're not recording.
Imagine what we're doing all the time. So smashing the patriarchy. I love the name.
Thank you for the super chat. I adore both of you for doing your part to resurrect the goddess.
My only question is, what was Jesus doing with that young boy?
And hell, Satan. Also great show. I'll have to rewatch because I missed the first hour.
That's a little, that's a little Dr. Amon breath. That is a Dr. Amon super chat all day. He loves it
when I'll joke around and be like, hell, he's like, he's like, he's blowing up, dude. He's getting,
he's starting to, he's brought to hit that thousand range per quick, quick. Is he really?
He's getting like 7, 800 views every video. Dude, he's, he's a trip, man. I have to tell him,
like we're on YouTube. We're on YouTube. He's crazy. That's fascinating guy. He really is.
Yeah, I love him though. I love that guy. He's a really good Greek teacher too.
Cause I'm noticing I'm getting really good at, I'm like, not really good. I shouldn't say that.
Getting a lot better and I'm noticing my improvement like very quickly.
I'm going to have to take him up on that sometime, man. When my time frees up right now,
I'm actually hitting the gym lately. I think I told you that I'm like 12 days in now. So
he's a Greek wizard. He's a Greek wizard. That's for sure.
I'm hustling. Pat Lowinger in the house. Love you, Pat. Thank you so much,
man, for showing up here. Who's Derek's guest? Obadiah Pitchweed?
It's cause you're beard, man. It's damn beard. Obadiah sounds like a, um, uh,
Jebediah. Yeah. Jebediah, Obadiah. No, um, what are they? The, the Amish people.
And we have a ton of them out here where I live. They're always up there at the,
the, one of the stores I like to get my t-shirts from and they're at Walmart and the women
wearing the head coverings and stuff. So Obadiah, just remember your place when you're joining me
on myth vision. Okay. Door corn nine again in the house. It is retro engineering that the,
theologian may indulge the pleasing task of describing religion as she descended from heaven,
a mere melancholy duty is imposed on the historian, Edward Gibbon. Interesting.
Describing religion as she descended from heaven, a more melancholy duty is imposed on the historian.
I love it. Hit me over the head. I gotta, I gotta look that, I gotta look into that a little deeper.
Thank you for that super chat, my friend. Edward Gibbon though is the, uh, great historian
who wrote one of my favorites that I've read recently is the fall of the Roman empire. It's,
he's, he's one of the first historians to go hard against the Christians and like,
and like, you know, like throw some blame on them for once for, for, for, because it's,
you know, this is 18th century. So it didn't really, you don't really, you're not used to that yet,
but he's one of the first people to come out and say, Christians, you guys have a lot of
shit on that, you know, needs to get, you should, we should get blamed. You should get blamed for,
you know, so anyways, it's a good, it's good. I've, I've always thought about the way you
just described that with the martyrdom stuff. Imagine you went back and you're a Christian
in your house at night worshiping with your friends and you're like, Wednesday, I'm going
out to the marketplace for our Lord. I'm breaking the law. I'm going to tell them about our Lord
and Savior at any cost. And the Roman government's like, not just Christians, any cult that is going
out there in public like that, doing that, trying to proselyt, you know, go and proselyte to other
people and they would break down, you know, the law on them. Hey, don't do this, but they're going to
do it anyway. Who's ultimately at fault? Now, I'm not saying that the laws were good. You know,
we wouldn't kill someone for going out. You know, it's kind of an eye for an eye in today's society.
In fact, in fact, murder today, you get away with less. I mean, you suck because you're,
you're locked up, but after 20 years, you could serve a shorter sentence and get out for murder.
I mean, it's not the same, but they're breaking known laws that they know they're going to die for,
and then they're seen as heroes. Kind of odd, bro. It's like today, if you went and did something
that you know is going to get you in severe trouble, but you do it anyway, and you're
crowds instead of the ones writing the history and the literature are like, man, this guy was
such a hero. You know what he did? He burned that person's house down, you know, or something like
become the hero of that particular thing. But we blame the empire because they're killing them,
and that's because they wrote the histories. Kind of odd. You're doing a criminal act.
They didn't play around. They had a different law than we do today, but
you're the one acting this way, and you're the hero, and Rome gets blamed for being the bad guy.
Interesting. Yeah, right around the same time, you have Edward Gibbon and,
what's his name? Age of Reason.
How old is Edward Gibbon? You're talking about-
We're talking about the same time period.
So these are skeptics around the same period.
Wow. Okay, I didn't know that. Now I know.
Doc Polaroma not. Thank you for the super chat and being a member of MythVision.
Have you explored similarities of John's prologue and the Chen dog, upon a shot,
the logos and the Hindu concept of Om, Om, Align. Guru Shisha traditions also look like
the Inclusio Jesus commands in 143. I have never.
I have that over here. I have an English translation of that, upon a shot.
Yeah, they got the meditation stuff in there, but the one that I like is the one before that
that's called the Kenna or Isha upon a shot. I forgot which one it is, but in that one,
you have a descent myth of going down in the Hades and returning back up,
and it kind of reminds you of all the other ones that are related to that.
That's all Vedic. That's all way East. That doesn't mean that it didn't possibly have influence.
I was just talking to a couple of people about this recently. Pat was just talking to me about
this. We have Buddhist statues in Egypt that are being uncovered and dug up by archaeologists,
but not only that, we know that there was Greek kingdoms all the way on the Indus River,
the Greco-Bactrians, and they have Dionysus gods that look like Shiva and Shiva gods that
look like Dionysus. Then it even goes as far as in the second century BCE, we have a king,
a Mauryan king, Ashoka the Great, who writes these edicts and erects these pillars all over
the world. If you read the pillars, it's basically like, oh, King Antiochus, when I send my people
over to you in Syria or Turkey, make sure you give them doctors. It's like a universal healthcare
decree. You see this, and so the Greeks and the Hindus and the Egyptians, they're all part of a
world that they're trading and there's roads that they all know about each other.
This is why Manichaeism became a thing. Jesus and Buddha are the same theology.
Yeah, and there is this idea. That's an early tradition.
It is early, and I'm very suspect on that connection necessarily being Buddha in Mark,
because Buddha also had a hidden identity that people didn't know. It makes me wonder,
is Buddhism impacted by the Odyssey? Because this goes way back, and there's no telling how.
I mean, let's be honest, Alexander the Great went all the way to India with his conquest.
Yes, he was with them to speak to the Yimno Sophists, the Naked Philosophers. He was with Piro.
Piro is the founder of the school of skepticism. So if Piro comes back from this travel,
he goes back to Greece, and then he goes to Alexandria, and he sets up a new school of philosophy
called skepticism. So we get skepticism from all this crazy interchanging of ideas, and all of a
sudden you get skepticism out of that. It's great, out of all things. I mean, what would think about
that, man? This is not mind blowing, out of all things. By the way, Piro was a high priest of
Jupiter before all this. I just want to make one point. Neil, Neil, do you think that you have
turned into a skeptic because? Yes. I mean, there's probably many reasons. What was I going to say?
Exactly! You have to suspend judgment on all this stuff. That's exactly my point. The more you
realize how many deities, how many claims, how many people, how many this, how many that, you are
forced to be honest. And what does that do? That honesty makes you realize, why do you think this
one and all of them all are wrong? And these are, I mean, so many pre-date your guy,
and you're going to act like, oh, but we got it right at this time in history, and everyone else
is wrong. To me, it seems like I would be, I'd have to be a liar. I'd have to be dishonest
if I know what I know and then pretend, oh, this is the one. You know what I mean? So, I have to
be a skeptic. I can't help but be honest, which means I hold my, I do have judgment. I mean,
my judgment is that I don't think this is true. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But look at
this. Being the first Greek skeptic philosopher, founder of Pyranism, which is this philosophical
skepticism, right? You know, he was the high priest of Zeus at Olympia. So, he didn't start off that
way. He traveled with Alexander. He was a student of Aristotle. Aristotle sent him out with Alexander.
Pyro, along with Anakaris, traveled with Alexander the Great on his Indian campaign
so that he went as far as the gymnosophists in India, and he was talking to all these philosophers
and all these- And the Magi in Persia. Everybody. He's writing all this, and he ends up,
he ends up down in Alexander's newly built mint fresh city of Alexandria, and he starts the school
skepticism. And I think skepticism influences Judaism, too. That's a whole other topic.
We can get in that. Really? Okay. I do. Yeah. Interesting. And it may. Who knows? I'd love to
dive into that. Drugs for Robots. Thank you for the super chat question on heroic noble Greek plus
Roman characters. Is the character Christ Jesus the archetype avatar of virtue who saves the world
by fame of his story and unjust death spreading teaching virtue justice to generations and mankind?
I personally think yes. Now, let me add this. Remember how earlier you said there could be
a kernel of what happens and then the narrative takes off? I tend to think there was a Jewish guy
named Jesus who actually got killed and was crucified. This legend, the myth, the archetype,
the tropes, the trophy systems. I like trying to write in the story. Right. Yes. It's what they're
trying to write in the story. I honestly, other than him being killed and a guy being killed,
I have to remain agnostic. Even then, I mean, technically, if you pin me down, I don't know,
but the evidence leans in that direction that there was a guy who was crucified.
As far as what he said is teachings, what actually happened, et cetera, I don't know.
I can't put too much confidence on, but I definitely have high, high
trust in the fact that they had narrated him. They made him into a story unjustly dying,
just like Socrates dies unjustly, but just like Socrates also and Luke. He faces his death with
no fear. I mean, they did so much. They transformed him. And like Socrates is an Athens, and you
know who charges? Anyone ever asked who charged Socrates and condemned him to death? Who's doing
this? He's the man. He's Socrates. It's the Ellosinian Hierophants, the high priest. And they
charge him with atheism and corrupting the youth. I mean, look at Jesus. Jesus is charged by the
Sadducees for corrupting the youth and changing things and claiming to be
authority parallels between trying to make him as a new Socrates for sure.
There's a lot going on. But I do think that the heroic noble Greek idea plays a significant role
in what they're doing with Jesus without a doubt for me. And he comes to save the world by fame of
a story. Yeah, I don't think that his death in Mark or Luke, I'm convinced by what Rick Miller
wrote. He wrote a wonderful article on this that it's not like an atonement death for their sins
kind of thing that you see in John or Matthew. Matthew kind of paints it in kind of a Jewish way
where you think of like the death of an animal sacrificed from the Hebrew scriptures. Mark and
Luke don't carry that kind of idea. It's more martyrological. So it's a martyr rather than
an atonement. And of course, the later Christians, of course, just making an atonement, but they also
think there might be some Orphic stuff going on. Because Orpheus, if you read his story, it's in
two different sources. One of them is Orpheus metamorphosis. And what's the other one? That's
the Latin one. But this is also ancient Greek stuff too. But the Orpheus even relates how
the night before Orpheus gets ripped apart by the main ads that were sent by Dionysus,
that he was performing this Thracian rites. And this, I don't even want to say it, like it's a
disgusting rite of doing... Say it, just don't say it like Dr. Amon. I'm not kidding, it's a few
texts. Right, right, right, right. You're wondering, why is the author telling this? This is what
happens the night before he dies. And Jesus is found with a little boy the night before. And then
both Orpheus and Jesus, after this happens, when they're being killed, they're singing hymns as
they're dying. Right. And so like the last thing to top this off is Orpheus, or Clement of Alexandria
says that Jesus is the new Orpheus singing the song Salvation. So he might have saw that too.
Interesting. Yeah, the little boy comes up a lot.
The Secret Gospel of Mark, right?
I think it's all the hypothesis out there. See who, you know, see where it's going.
Yeah, but you do have this notion, Morton Smith wrote about the Secret Gospel of Mark that
James Tabor says, listen, James Tabor swears it's legit. He says, listen, man, he said,
whether or not the Secret Gospel of Mark itself is, is, you know, something that should go back
and taken serious and be early dated to the time around which these other Gospels are written.
That's a different question than saying Morton Smith fabricated and forged, like created the
whole thing. He says, I'm this James Tabor now, he says, he did not make that up. So he swears,
and he wants that he said he'll do an episode with me sometime to actually describe and go
into this in depth. Maybe we should collab on that with him and dive in because you're into
this as much as I am. And I look at all the, all the people who think this is something Morton
Smith like illegally did. And I'm trying to look at their reasons why they think that. And it just
seems like, and I could be wrong here, but it feels like, from an outsider, it feels like this
is, this is like Christians mad at him for all his work. It feels like the seminary types that
just don't like Morton Smith. And he's doing all this amazing work. He's doing
Greek magical papyri translations. Like nobody was doing what Morton Smith was doing,
right? He was the goat of his time. He was the greatest.
I know he did get upset from what I recall Dennis McDonald was telling me that, you know,
Dennis brought up his position on the young boy, the naked young man using Greek imitation.
And Morton got up and yelled at him. He was mad, didn't like it. I'll let Dennis tell the story.
Yes, there's a lot. He's an intense guy. But then his book, Jesus the Magician, and
I thought that, I just recently read that. It's so good. And the criticism for that is like,
oh, we shouldn't be calling people magician because it's- Right, right, right.
What? Who cares? What a dumb thing to say about amazing, I don't know.
I feel like there's a lot of weird biases against Morton Smith. Maybe they know more
than I do. They're experts. I'm not. So I'm just- Yeah.
This is what it feels like. This is what it feels like.
I don't know. I hear both sides. Both sides come to different conclusions.
Sometimes they'll throw up the idea that he was in the boy, or not boys, but, you know, he was same
sex. He was- And what would that have to do with anything anyway?
Well, they would say that the- They would use that again.
Painted the image, yeah. So the image of the secret gospel of Mark has Jesus
messing with this young boy, right? Like, it clearly spells out, I guess.
Well, you're someone- See, this is the thing, though.
That he has had this rights with this young boy and is, you know, possibly doing stuff.
But you're someone like Morton Smith who knows all the Greek world is like.
You know about all the, all the Pyrolytes texts. You know about all the
pedorasty. You know about all the Orphic stuff. And then you see this.
Yeah. This is somebody who knows what they're doing.
Like, and it sounds crazy, but like, like, I'm telling you, when you talk to
classes about this stuff, they- No, you're not telling me.
It's only a Bible show. I don't get this.
I'm with you. But the classes, the paleologists, they all know about this shit.
So this is what I would personally, if I were going along with the secret gospel Mark and
going into this whole pedorasty, the whole nine, for me, I would say you're dealing
with a Gentile audience, obviously, because it seems there's a lot of ascetic stuff going
on. They're trying to like divorce you from doing sex. In fact, it comes bad.
It's almost nasty to do that. In some versions of Christianity, in other versions,
it seems like, no, there seems to be a heightened sense of the sexual side of things.
Yeah. There's like- John has got a beloved disciple. I know it's
a tutor for gospel. Yeah, it depends on how you interpret that.
But if you interpret it the way you're describing it to a Greek audience, yeah.
Right? Like, here's this guy, just like any other tutor would have a child or a young man
under his wing. He was a lover. This is all over the Greek world, all the philosophers.
Jesus gets painted as a philosopher in many ways. So, you know, it's taboo for those who want to
make sure that this is an errant and infallible. But in a historical search, it's interesting to see
how a narrator or an author might paint Jesus a certain way.
And if the secret gospel mark, let's just say it is later. Let's just grant it a couple centuries,
right? I could see this being something that would flourish among Greeks, amongst people
in the Roman world who saw their other figures and went,
hey, we got another one right here. And this one's better. He does the same things we see
the other tutors do. But our guy, he also does it. But we love him and he's better. And his name's
Jesus. You know what I mean? Like, it's, it's, I think the wars that happen in ideological battles
over Christianity over the next three, four, five centuries are what kind of cut out all
those different models of Jesus. Then we finally have one stamp of approval. And this is a,
this is the creed we all follow, you know? I don't know. I don't know what the truth is though,
Neil. Everything you're saying is fair. I think it's well, well said.
Yeah, man. Graze 174, would you be upset if Jesus rose from the dead?
Upset?
It's, it's an, it raises, whoa.
I would be, let's just pretend that we really die, right? We go and it's like, boom, here it is.
And they say, dude, listen, he really did rise from the dead. Like, I don't know what that would
mean. Right? I'd just be like, I would say this. Why did you trick us? Yeah. No, I would say whatever
this universe reality is that you made, you guys are weirdos. Why did you trick us? Jesus.
Weirdos. Bring me to hell now. You're not. Well, I'd probably look over at his father and be like,
dude, you tricked us or you let Satan trick us for this, you know, if that were the case.
Yeah, you made it seem like it doesn't make sense at all. But then, then, then, um, imagine this
though, imagine this scenario, imagine this scenario. He, he comes back from the dead and
you're still alive. So you have time to repent. Do you do it? Right? I probably would. I'm just
being honest. I probably would be like, okay. If he would know, say that again. So now he shows up
in your face. Now you, now you know it's real. I'd be like, damn, did I get back on drugs? Hold on.
No, I'm just saying, let's just play this tape out. Let's just play this tape out. Okay. Go ahead.
Let's just say for the sake of argument, it's established this is real. He's back. Everyone
agrees. Nobody's, there's no drugs. There's no wondering. Everyone knows it. He's given everybody
in the world a chance to repent. Right. I probably would do it. And I probably would say,
oh, Jesus is going to be eternity doing all this. I wouldn't probably look. I don't care what any
atheist says. I don't care. I wouldn't do it. I know, but I don't care what any says. If that were
the case, maybe there's a plan. I don't know that I don't understand that this whole blip of reality
that might be a dream for all we know. I would, I would do it at that point. And I'd be like,
but I would like to know I would have questions I'd love to have answers to. And maybe what if
that is the case? So what, what if you guys own, by the way, what the Christians have been saying
about me all along? Other than the part that I rose from the dead. Yeah, they're full of shit.
And let me tell you why, you know, like, who knows? What I'm saying, what I'm saying is like,
once you're in the, once you're faced with eternal life or death, I think most people just
were just wired to go for survival. I would. I can sit there and I can, I can sit there.
Let me paint a different picture for you. I can't stand this religion. I think it's weird,
but I don't like it. But now I know it's real. So I'm now I'm going to say, well, I guess I gotta
do it. Like, okay, let me paint a better picture that's not as like, obviously eternal. Okay. Yeah.
Imagine I approach you on Taliban. I have a sword to your throat. I tell you, you need to convert
to Islam or I'm going to cut your head off today. Okay, you need to convert or you're dead today.
What do you do? I convert me too. I'm just being I'm trying to be honest here. I know that doesn't
mean it's true. People will say I would stand up for it. I would die right there. Yeah, okay.
So I'm not, I'm not an idiot. Personally, I consider that dumb. I'm going to go ahead and
convert and the same happened to sabotage Evie, by the way. He converted because he was going to die.
They were going to kill me. He thought he was going to convert them to Judaism. No,
turned out the other way around because he was going to be killed. I would do it. Now,
if we knew this, okay, we choose to spend forever in suffering, imagine, imagine suffering or
eternal life of not suffering and bliss and whatever the hell that means. I'm not dumb.
I'm going to choose what the better option is in that situation. I'd also be kind of like,
how the hell did I miss this? Because I thought I studied this quite well and realized all of these
examples of other claims of figures, right? Now, this is playing a completely hypothetical game
here. But what if you die in its eschemon? What if you die in Zeus was really the father?
You just go with the punches. Like it's the same thing as what you're doing right now.
Right. But if you're on earth and there is oxygen and water and blood and you're,
you have to eat to survive, you just do it. It doesn't matter if you like it or not. You just
got to, we're just wired to just do the next thing to survive. Like that's just how we are.
So it's, I love this question, by the way. It just, it brings up a fun hypothetical,
right? Because then the Christian goes, but what if you die and there's nothing? Oh, wow,
it's too late. That's nothing. Then you roll with that. What are you going to do then? Nothing.
I guess the question of reversing another way, Neil, to get into the nitty gritty, if you died
and it really was him, we didn't get a second chance. And that's it. And you're spending
all your life in eternity. Do you think that God deserves? I mean, you got to accept the fate,
right? It is what it is. Do you honestly think this God, if it does that, deserves your,
remember now, I'm saying, he doesn't mention a second chance here. Grace doesn't mention
a second chance. You end up dying and then Jesus is really the one, right? And then you go to this
hell forever. Is this God really worthy of your kind of worship? And then what about this last
hypothetical real quick? What if you had a choice to side with Satan or Jesus, not knowing that
there's going to be, you don't like, you, yeah, the Bible says one's going to win. But what if you
really just, what if there's really a battle and you really don't know, then which one you pick?
I go to Satan. So if I, let's strip the whole eternal afterlife nonsense that people add to
this, right? Let's get rid of that for a second here. Look at the character that is fighting
against this tyrannical kind of figure, right? Someone who is seemingly the way that we've
kind of painted him trying to give you the truth and right off the gate. Trying to give you the
knowledge. You're going to become like God. Right. This is the truth teller. That's what I'm trying
to say. Right. I see what you're saying. That's why the Gnostics also kind of go down this path.
They do. Yeah. It's interesting. It's an interesting thing. And now you have people today
who are Satanists. They do it in opposition, mostly political, ethical, social reasons,
to kind of aren't wrong. Look at aren't wrong. He doesn't believe there's actually a Satan.
Right. But he's a Satanist and he stands for the whole idea of opposing this, you know,
tyrannical system of the tyrannical deity in which Christians propagate against everybody else and
want everyone to submit and come into or else all eternal conscious storm and etc. etc. Yeah.
Great question. Heck of a mind game to play. It's hypothetical. It's fun. Do you mind if I
don't take a leak real quick? I'll be right back. I do mind. No, I'm just kidding. I don't give a
shit. All right. Breezy and the heezy. Thank you for the sheezy. I appreciate that seriously.
Thank you so much for that. Lady Babylon's in the house. We've got the satanic panic about
to happen in this joker. Seriously, though, thank you for being here, Dr. Amon. I appreciate it.
He's got to be having fun with this. James Tabore Pratt. Thank you for plugging James for me.
I got to get James on. We got to talk about the secret Gospel mark and what happened with Morton
Smith. I'm just scrolling down here trying to see what the chat. Did y'all have fun with that
hypothetical? I don't know. Oh, we've got another super chat. Gettysburg demoniac. I might have to
wait for Neil for this one. You both are providing unparalleled biblical information on YouTube. I
watch every single episode on both channels. Y'all are my heroes. Very grateful. I got to tell
this to Neil when he gets back. I'll let him read it. So I'm going to keep you up. I'm going to
scroll down and just check out everybody and keep going. Keep going. How much chat did I get behind
on? Oh, no, we're not too far off here. Satan thinks R&R is a dork. I'm totally on Satan's side,
smashing the patriarch, he said. Backyard professors love you guys. I got to run for now.
Great catch. Great show. Catch up soon. Love you, man. We call him Bip. All right. Read that.
Read that super chat, Neil. You're back. You are both providing unparalleled biblical information
on YouTube and I watch every single episode on both channels. Thank you for that. You are my
hero, Gettysburg demoniac. Absolutely. It means a lot to see the community and people who are enjoying
learning this stuff with us. I just, man, it just seems, I want to piggyback off of that last
super chat into this one as we have people who are listening to what we're saying and they're going,
damn, it's shocking. It's fun. It's interesting. Very man-made to me. It's very interesting how
humans have developed these ideas and have spun them in different ways, the way we describe things,
the way they perceive the world through experience. I just find that quite interesting and it takes it
to a human level instead of imagining this is really what's going to happen to you. I mean,
that's all fear that people are trying to put into you and I don't think anyone should live
in fear. If you have that kind of fear about your belief system, you should reevaluate
what you believe personally. I like the pragmatic or practical things. I like the idea of playing
around with Dionysus, for example, Bacchus, the idea of getting drunk and enjoying that euphoria
that comes over you. There's a real experience you get from the substance and yet you can play
around in the mythic mode of describing this mythic story and how it might apply to your life.
We do this today with superheroes from comic books, Marvel versus whatever DC universe and
stuff and we might apply that in our own life from whatever way. That's cool. If Jesus was just
another one of those kind of mythic applicable things in which we would just apply in some way,
hey, I'm going to give to the poor today. That Bacchic inspiration, you can almost say
that writers of TV shows and movies and films and songs and paintings, they're inspiring. They're
being inspired by the world around them to do these beautiful works of art that help people.
People listen to music, they feel better, but watch a good movie and cheers them up.
That type of inspiration is what that's that feeling that the ancients were getting at
through religion. Now you see this in all different outlets with art and music and film.
It's the same thing. There really is no difference. That's why I say we like a narrative. We tell
ourselves a narrative. We have stories. We like myth. We like fiction. I put myth and these religions
in the same category as fiction. I go and watch. I mentioned this the other day. It's the last video
I watched, which is why I'm mentioning it with my sons. I watched that new Guardians of the Galaxy
movie. Man, I don't want to spoil the movie for anybody who's into it and hasn't seen it yet,
but you know the raccoon character with the gun? They give you the backstory to this person and
how they became who they are, right? And it's epic. I mean, it's deep, deep, deep with these other
little animals that also have to go through some horrific things like the raccoon does.
By the way, he always says, I'm not a raccoon. You're going to see in this movie some interesting
things if you're into this. I fell in love with it, man. I was like in there. I was there on the
spacecraft. I was there when he was crying and it was happening. Like the point is, as we tell
ourselves these narratives, fictions that I think can apply to the real world, and that's the point.
Taking them from making them mythic, which means they're applicable, and then making them literal,
as if that's what actually literally is the truth, I think that's where you honestly are
making what was once, I think, a good thing into something that just lost. Yeah, and this is
lost its power. That's what dogma is. It's this, like Heraclitus was famous for
saying that you shouldn't have, you should suspend judgment on, this is like the
Socratic method, but like everything in this universe is on a state of flux. Everything's
always changing. And so once you think you have a set truth, it becomes a dogma because
there's different scenarios. There's different, everything's, nothing's black and white.
It's all gray areas and everything. Well, it's telling when you have so many
sects of Christianity out the gate that can't even figure it out. It's pretty obvious that
power control struggles, all sorts of stuff. So you end up getting it nailed down eventually
through political power, of course. And that's where it's like, dude, if Christianity was cool
out the gate, just say it was like mythic, like Bacchus or any other kind of interesting
mystery cult or type of religion at the time. It lost that. It lost that over time. And there's
still remnants of fossils in the church with its incense and its its singings and things like that
that are there. But ultimately, it seems like it's lost what it once may have had at some point.
And some Christians are trying to revivify it by saying, no, no, no, it's esoteric. No, no,
no, it's allegory. No, no, no, it doesn't have the literalness to it. It means this. It's just,
I don't see the need for that religion, especially when there's certain concepts I say are dated
that I find in it. But I also could find various dated things in the Greek world. In Homer, I could
see several things and many of the Greek salt too. Zeus can't rape women. That's an allegory.
Oh, he can't. Homer begs to differ. But, you know, you're allegorizing of Homer. I see what you did
there. You're trying to keep your religion alive so that it's contemporaneous with your period,
and it fits your modern context. I don't know. I mean, some Christians are trying to do that, but
the text says certain things, man. And it's like, you know, does slavery mean slavery anymore?
You know, like, why do you need the text if it's talking about this?
And that's why I think, that's why I think paganism should have a revival, because in paganism,
it's about forces of nature. And you are, you are a part of that. You are a part of those forces
of nature. You are within those things. So you are, like, you know, the Venus being the love goddess,
and Apollo being the heavenly lights bringer, and all this, all these different aspects of the
things that you see around you that you're witnessing and experiencing, you deify it.
And it's just something, something about that, that gives me, gives meaning, gives,
it gives that, that spark, it gives that substance to the world around you. And it doesn't mean you
have to be dogmatic about it. No one, there's nothing about that, those traditions that say
you have to do this or you have to do that. I mean, there might be some. Yeah, there's probably
some. I mean, there's various sects of it. That's why I'm a humanist, though. That's why
I'm a humanist, because a lot of humanism coming out of the Greek, the Greek world.
That too. That too. I know that this, it's not like humanism is only an atheist thing at all,
but like, I am a humanist who can definitely dabble and enjoy those worlds and enjoy
entering them mythically, right? In my mind, not ontologically necessarily thinking they're true,
but in it, in it, I can play imagination. I watched the movie Guardians of the Galaxy,
and I, I indulge, I immerse, I have consumed, ate the flesh and drank the blood of that movie.
I could do the same thing in these mythic kind of ancient myths or even contemporaneous. I could,
I could probably go to a, you know, I don't know, out in the woods and check out one of their ceremonies
or something to be there and be like, oh, I'm indulging. It might be weird for me in a moment,
because it's like, am I playing make believe at this point? I'm doing that when I'm watching a movie,
but I don't know if I could quite get into the same setting without thinking, oh, here I am in
the Pentecostal church again, dancing around and in a trance-like state. It just would seem odd to
me. I don't know. Does that make sense to you? You may not, you may not share the same experience
with the whole charismatic Pentecostal type stuff that I did. I wasn't Pentecostal, but it was,
they did that stuff. When you're getting at it, it's exactly what Cicero was writing about.
He was, he was had this struggle in his head between, like, is this all just make believe?
Right. And it's, he's got a stoic, he's got, I'm talking about on the nature of the gods,
there's a dialogue. He's got a stoic there. He's got a Epicurian there, and the dog,
this is exactly what they're talking about. So you're not, this makes sense, you know.
I mean, I'm just trying to keep it real, you know, humanist reformation. We're just two
evolved apes, man, trying to figure this thing out. You know, we're trying. Why did Jesus lie to us?
Nothing to fear if Jesus did die and rose again. I will appeal to what the Bible says and Jesus
promises at my trial. Interesting. Humanist reformation. So I'm, I'm like, so first of all,
humanist reformation, I feel like I know you already. You probably feel like you know me.
All the super chats and awesome support. I thank you. But like, this is Jesus was wrong
about the apocalypse, wrong about the end, wrong about when this son of man was going to come.
And if he's wrong about that, why do you think he rose again? This is a serious question.
But if he did rise again, is he not that merciful that he would forgive you at the trial of your
judgment or whatever? Or would he be like Dionysus to Pentheus and say, F you, you're done. You
didn't recognize me as a son of God. If he's as merciful to Paul after Paul's murdering Christians,
I've never murdered anybody. According to acts, of course, you're going to tell me he's going to cast
me away for all eternity. Get out of my face. I mean, let's use the Bible, right? Great, great
super chat. Good question. Yeah. Christie in the house. Why did Jesus call Paul Saul? I think
Saul was a system of beliefs. He arose from the ground and his name was converted to Paul by Luke.
Well, his real name is Saul. And then Paul, I think just means small.
I don't know. You want me to tell you my honest take on this?
Yeah. Well, I think it's, I think this is like settled or not. Maybe not.
I don't think this is settled. No. Yes. Centuries of Christian or not Christian,
but scholars have argued this. I have a video. If you really want to have some fun with this one,
I have a video on YouTube. I think I called it the name of the article that Michael Koshinosh,
who was a student of Dennis McDonald, wrote an article called Better Call Paul Saul.
You know the movie, the show Better Call Saul. His real name is Saul, right?
Well, he's known as Paul in his letters. He's never called Saul once in his letters.
The Latin name Paul is... Oh, okay. So here's the thing. There's the argument.
Many scholars have tried to say he had a Roman named Paul. And because he wants to say
he has a Roman citizenship and all that, they're just going to call him Paul. But his real Jewish
name they want to assume is Saul, right? Because it is a Hebrew Bible name. Here's the thing.
Go to Acts where he has the conversion. You know that spot where Jesus knocks him to the ground,
right? He's blinded by the light, the same way Penteas is blinded by the light in the trees
when the mine ads are in the trance. When he blinds him, Jesus says to Saul, catch this, bro.
Are you checking me out or are you doing something? Because I need you fully attentive here.
You're going to be blown away by this. Do you know that... I just looked it up. Paul is...
I knew you weren't listening, dude. I am listening. I am listening. No, you are.
No, you are. Paul is Latin does mean small. Yes, but this is important. Paul does.
And, of course, he wants to humble himself, right? But who knows what his... Paul may be his actual
name. Saul is his name in Acts when he gets knocked to the ground. When he gets knocked to
the ground and blinded, Jesus says to Saul, Saul, Saul twice, why are you persecuting me?
David. David says to King Saul. I'm glad you're catching it. It's literally an imitation. He's
mimicking the exact phrase. Otherwise, you might think he didn't even exist and he's just made up.
Well, no, but you know, here, Paul, follow me for a second. Okay. The odds of there being two
Saul's in history that both chased the Davidic anointed one. Right. And the same way, the chance
that happens twice. Saul's trying to kill David. But his name is Paul. Right. And then someone later
on thinks, oh, this guy's a lot like the guy who chased around David. Let's call him Saul. All I think
is they saw that he was persecuting Christians in his own letters and they made it into a narrative
imitating that narrative in the first Samuel, I think it is, where King David screams from the
hill to Saul after he cuts his clothing and he could have killed him. He could have killed him.
Jesus could have killed Saul here. Paul. He says the exact same phrase that's in the Greek there,
but David says, Saul, Saul, why do you pursue me? Pursue. It's not persecute. It's pursue.
And so here is Saul persecuting. Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? Then he changes his name
from Saul to Paul. That's when the pivot of his name changes to Paul in Acts. And this is a deep,
deep video. If you want to have your mind blown, go check that out. Michael Koshinosh.
No, what you just said made so much sense because check this out. People might be like,
what are they talking about? Let me just show what we're talking about. This is huge, dude.
So this is from 1 Samuel 249. And he says, and David got up and went out and called out to Saul,
my Lord. David faced down and read words and said, why do you listen to the words David
intends to harm you? Is this the same one? Do you remember what verse that was or no?
Nope. I don't. Hold on, go down, go down, scroll down, scroll down. David, no, scroll down, see if
it's my Lord, my Lord, my King. I don't think this is it. I don't think this is it.
But I could try to find it though.
Why do you, what is it? Why do you persecute me? Persu me? Persu, yeah.
I'll pursues David. Saul was told David had gone, God has delivered it in my hands and Saul has
ended up. Bring the ephah, David said. First Samuel, yeah. Saul was told that David had gone to
Kilei and he said, God has delivered him into his hands for David had imprisoned himself.
David learned that Saul was plotting against him. He said to Abithar, the priest, bring the
ephah. David said, Lord, God of Israel. Which verse is it? I'm trying to scroll down right now.
I'm scrolling down to see. While David was at Horesh in the desert at Ziff, he learned that
Saul had come out to take his life. And Saul's son, Jonathan, went to David at Horesh and helped
him find strength in God. Don't be afraid, he said. My father Saul will not lay a hand on you.
You will be king over Israel. Scrolling down.
Saul was going along one side of the mountain and David and his men were on the other side hurrying
to get away from Saul as Saul and his forces were closing in on David. Okay. Scrolling down.
After Ingeti, we were at Ingeti according to what they think is Ingeti when we were in Israel.
David spare Saul's life. After Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, he was told David is in
the desert of Ingeti. So Saul took 3,000 able men, able young men from Israel.
Okay. Then the men said, this is the day the Lord spoke of when he said to you,
I will give your enemy into your hands and for you to deal with as you wish. Then David crept up
unnoticed and cut off a corner of Saul's robe. Afterward, David was conscious stricken for having
cutting off a corner of his robe. He said to his men, the Lord forbid that I should do such a thing
to my master, the Lord anointed or lay my hands on him.
The Lord's messiah, isn't that crazy? Yep. For he is the anointed of the Lord. With these words,
David sharply rebuked his men, did not allow them to attack Saul. Saul left the cave and went away.
Then David went out of the cave and called out to Saul, my Lord, the king. Now,
this is an English translation. I'd love for you to get the Septuagint. Maybe there's something
there. When Saul looked behind him, David bowed down and prostrated himself with his face to the
ground. He said to Saul, why do you listen when men say David is bent on harming you? This day,
you have seen with your own eyes how the Lord delivered you into my hands in the cave. Some
urged me to kill you, but I spare you. I said, I will not lay my hand on the Lord because he is
the Lord's anointed. See my father, look at the piece of your robe in my hand. I cut off the
corner of your robe, but I did not kill you. See that there's nothing in my hand to indicate that
I am guilty of wrongdoing or rebellion. I have not wronged you. I really want to pull up that
episode again. Yeah, because I remember seeing that somewhere. Someone showed that to me and said,
look, it's- Oh, against whom? Verse 14, against whom has the king of Israel come out? Who are you
pursuing? Oh, there it is. A dog, a flea. So may the Lord be our judge and decide between us.
May you consider. Anyway, the way that it was painted, and you got to go check it out, here's
Saul. No, let me say this. In both cases, you have Saul pursuing the Lord's anointed one.
Yep. And so the odds of- Trying to kill him. Trying to kill him. Yeah, the odds of this happens
twice is like, that's mind-blowing. So it makes a lot of sense that he'd be titled Saul,
and his name could be Paul. That makes sense. But it's also possible that we have two souls.
Yeah, that's the possible, but here we are again with the kind of possible thing. If I don't see,
like, there's more of a chance to me that there were shipwrecks, even though I have a high,
I'm highly suspect of Paul, because Paul's own letters say it.
This is a huge coincidence, you got to admit. It is so coincidental that it sounds more like
a literary trope rather than it being what actually is the case. And his name changes after that.
Yeah. And here's another possibility that I just thought about. If his name actually was Saul,
the fact that his name is Saul, writers could start connecting him to Saul just for that
one reason. There could be no story of him persecuting Jesus or anything like that.
And then for some reason, Paul, who converts to Christianity and then they sort of throw this
story on to him. Oh my God, we found it. Someone just posted in the chat, I love you. Who are you?
Hold on. Mark Peralta, freaking gangster. You're a gangster, man. Mark's awesome.
Yes, it says David Replice. So, I have it up. You want me to share my screen?
Yeah. All right. Hold on. This is awesome. I'm glad he pointed this out, because this is what
we were looking at. Yeah. David, or so, Saul recognized David's voice and said,
is that your voice? David, my son. So, this is just a repeat of what I was just reading earlier,
but this is the explicit. David replied, yes, it is my Lord the King. And he added,
why is my Lord pursuing his servant? What have I done and what wrong am I guilty of? Now,
let my Lord the King listen to my servant's words. So, very explicitly, why is my Lord
pursuing his servant? Like, why are you pursuing me? That's what he's actually saying. Jesus is
saying, the same thing to Paul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And look, he's trying to kill
him. Right. Clear. So, yeah, no, your point is really strong, in my opinion, that he would be
given the title of Saul because of this. And his name probably might have been Paulus,
which is a name that we see all over the place in the Mormon Empire.
Mm-hmm. I mean, it could, but it's like Paulus would be more likely to be just...
Amelius Paulus was the guy who sacked Macedonia and had a triumph in Rome.
I'm with the Paulus name. That's a name. That's a popular name.
It's the Saul thing that I'm really like. Is it a Jewish name? Now, the thing is,
it doesn't matter because in this time period, all the names in Israel are already Roman and Greek,
you have all types of mixing names going on anyway.
Exactly. And that's the problem when we're looking at the synagogue inscriptions. Sometimes
you're like, hold on, this name is highly Gentile, right? It's not Jewish.
Yeah. Aristotle is Philo.
There's Gentiles who take Jewish names.
Yeah. Aristotle is a straight up Greek name, so it's Philo.
Right. You know?
There's so much cool stuff here, man. I love that. I'm glad we got in that rabbit trail
because it's eclectic mimicism again because he shows not only is it using the scriptures,
describing this, that bright light, that bright, blinding light, where Penteas is bright,
blinded light by Dionysus with the Minas. That is what happens to Paul.
So there's two things happening in the narrative. It's not just taking the Saul-Saul from King David.
It's also taking this Penteas narrative that's in Euripides' Bacchai with the blinding light.
Good point.
So it's doing both, bro.
Saul's like a Penteas character.
But you know what?
100%. No, no, no, no, no.
He is in that scene, but overall he's Dionysus.
Right. And this happens with Jacob and Esau too.
You get a similar dichotomy there with the one brother chasing over the other brother,
and Jacob forgives him.
That was in your recent video, wasn't it?
Yeah. Esau was like, okay, I'm sorry. He feels bad.
So you see this happening where the chosen character, whoever it is, whether it's Jacob,
Jesus, or David, they always forgive the people that chase after them.
Notice that?
That's interesting.
It's a merciful act.
Yeah.
Dual Curnines says, yes, courage is the first of human virtues because it makes all others
possible, Aristotle.
Nice, nice citation.
Hitting some heavy names there.
Margaret DeVeldin, thank you for the super chat.
Good to see you here.
Galaxy, do you think the backstory was imagined, created after or before the first movie?
Maybe we can't know the beginning before we decide the end.
I personally think just like, what's an example I can give?
Did you watch Better Call Saul since we're on the topic?
Oh, yeah.
Did you watch The Breaking Bad?
Oh, yeah.
I don't think when they started Breaking Bad 15 years ago or whatever it was 20 years ago,
I'm just throwing out a number.
I don't think they had in mind this lawyer actually having a show.
I think after the actor came out, kicked ass on Breaking Bad did so well in the show
that they had to give him a spinoff.
So I think what happens over time is they develop probably unless there's a novel out
there or some fictional series on The Guardians of the Galaxy I don't know about,
I think that they're giving you back stories because it's the same thing biblical.
Look at Enoch.
We talked about this earlier.
Was Enoch taken to heaven?
It doesn't say it in Genesis.
But if you read the book of Enoch, yes, he was taken up to heaven.
So they added narratives.
Well, we hear about giants in Genesis 6.
We don't hear much about them, but we hear about them.
And we hear a little bit about them with this idea of David and Goliath,
but we don't know much about giants.
But then you get into the book of Enoch.
There's 350 foot tall giants, and they're eating the flesh of humans.
They elaborate in the narrative.
I think that's what happens in movies.
I think that's what happens in the biblical stuff when they're rewriting narratives and
rewriting material.
They find like little things like Mochizedek.
We don't know Jack Diddly squat much about Mochizedek in the Bible.
You see him get used later in the book of Hebrews.
Oh, after the order, the priestly order of Mochizedek.
Well, you can get away with that because we don't know.
We don't have any other information about this mysterious character Enoch.
Mochizedek, you name it.
You can pull up characters and you can find ways to create little spin-off stories about them.
And that's it created curiosity too.
How mysterious is it that Enoch walked with the Lord
for 365 years and then was not?
I don't know anything.
There's got to be more to it.
He walked with the Lord and then was taken.
What happened to him?
You know what this is making me think of, though, is the evolution of apotheosis.
How our mortals can be taken up where the norm is you go down to Hades or Sheol,
whatever it is, everyone goes to the same place.
All of a sudden, Plato really starts this idea of the good people go to one place
and the bad go to another.
That's in his republic.
But I thought about this.
I actually have a couple of slides here.
So in the Roman religion, you have what's called the dismanes,
the souls of the dead, and there's three different kinds.
The lairs, hero ancestors, the good ones, the good ones who go to heaven, basically.
Lemurs, these are the ones who are restless.
They go to the hell.
They go to the bad ones.
And then the D. Penetes, which is like a household deities.
And then so they belong to a broadly, broadly category of D. Inferni, those who dwell below,
right?
So this is standard.
Everybody goes below.
Nobody's going up.
Everyone's going down.
But you have different categories, the goods, the lairs, the bads, the lemurs, and so forth.
Even Apolaus, this is a good quote right here, says,
Indeed, the souls of men are demons, that the men become lairs if they are good,
lemurs or larvae if they are bad, and manes if it's uncertain, right?
So where does the idea of going up come from?
And I've really been trying to find this lately.
And I think this is my thoughts.
I'm going to get your thoughts on this.
This is what I think.
First of all, Julius Caesar, when he dies, why is this thing on my way?
That's so annoying.
Okay.
Do you want me to move the Super Chat?
Margaret, I love you.
Thank you.
No, not the Super Chat.
It wasn't, yeah, it was a student thing on my right, whatever that is.
But it's all right, because it's on the left side.
So I'm just going to read it.
It's still a noxious man.
It's still annoying.
I don't know why I can't get rid of it.
Can I just click on one or something?
Oh, cool.
It's gone.
All right.
So here's the text.
When Asclepius, this is from Ovid's Metamorphosis.
This is the last book at the very end of the book.
When Asclepius came to Rome from abroad, Julius Caesar was born in Rome.
Caesar was a genius in matters of war and peace.
It did many heroic things.
But his greatest achievement was fathering his son, Caesar Augustus.
Before Augustus was born, Julius Caesar became a god.
This is how it happened.
Venus foresees that Julius Caesar is about to be murdered by traitors from his government
and flies into a rage.
She feels she has suffered an unfair amount of treachery.
She had to fight against Juno's rage to protect Aeneas.
And now Aeneas is only descended.
Julius Caesar is under threat.
The gods are moved by Venus' despair, although they can't alter fate.
They try to warn Rome of the imminent tragedy.
This is like a prophecy, right?
Yeah.
By the feeling the streets of Rome with omens, blood rains from the clouds,
owls hoot, dogs howl, priests bosh their sacrifices, and the streets are haunted with ghosts.
Despite these warnings, the two traitors entered the Senate,
whole hall holding swords.
At this moment, Venus attempts to hide Julius in the clouds.
Jupiter asks Venus, why is she fighting fate?
He has to read the tablets written with the destiny of the world
and knows that Julius Caesar has come to the end of his time.
Venus will make him a god and Caesar Augustus will avenge his death.
Which does happen.
In the ensuing, to make a long story short, as this is it right here,
Augustus will be the hero when he is brought to peace.
Augustus will return to Rome.
Venus will rescue Julius Caesar's soul and his body will make him a comet.
Venus goes to the Senate hall in Rome and retrieves Caesar's soul
as she carries it up to heaven.
She feels it blaze.
All right, so there's this idea that if you reach apotheosis,
like those three, those three categories I mentioned before,
the layers, the lemurs and all those, they're all going down
and they're getting, they're getting like spliced out based on what they did and whatever.
But if you're, if you become a god, you go up like the gods do.
The gods take your soul up into the heavens and you get to rule in the heavens with the gods.
So Julius Caesar does this.
Then, then there's another story about Augustus in Suetonius,
where Augustus is seen rising up during his funeral to another couple generations after that.
Claudius.
With eyewitnesses, by the way.
Right. And Claudius, the same thing happens.
He rises up into heaven.
So I'm thinking, what if Christianity comes along and says all these people who become gods,
they arise up into heaven, but you don't need to become a god.
You just need Jesus and he'll bring you up into heaven.
Imagine that.
Imagine how alluring that would be.
You could be, I could be like Caesar, just by believing it.
What?
Yeah, it's like a shortcut, like same way that saying to non-Jews,
you could be part of our movement and be on the same level as Jews without having to circumcise.
You see with these early Gnostics, the idea of attaining gnosis was literally almost like becoming
a god and having your own apotheosis.
And you see this epiphanious, the first Christian that got, or the first
document of Christian that got deified on the island of Cthulonia,
178 in common era, early on.
This is a Christian being worshiped like a god.
So like, what if, I'm wondering if Christianity is coming along and saying,
yeah, oh yeah, these Caesar's, they can go up.
But so can we, because we're saved by Jesus Christ and he brings us up, just like Venus brought you up.
I will say, I don't know where the idea of going up comes from, like where it starts or anything,
but I do know, I thought about Matthew Munger, you and me both interviewed him on his stuff on Jubilees.
Jubilees talks about these heavenly tablets of destiny that are like up there that you can't change.
And the laws of Moses were written on tablets of stone by angels, not by these heavenly tablets that are like destined or something.
So when you were reading that about Julius Caesar, I was thinking about that, I was like, what, plus there's eyewitnesses at that.
You know what I forgot to show you?
And anyone who's made it this long, you deserve an apotheosis.
I forgot to show you this, Neil.
You ready?
You sure you're ready, bro?
We're going to get to your super chats here in just a minute, but you're a clay.
Remember I was telling you about that about Mark?
Mark, check this out, the Testament of Abraham was written in the first century, same time the Gospels were written, at least the Gospel Mark, as far as I'm concerned, I think it is first century, but I don't know, nobody knows the exact dates, we all throw speculation on that, we have our reasons.
Testament of Abraham 2-7, this Jewish author imitated Homer's account of Euryclia's recognition of Odysseus and Penelope's dream of the eagle and her pet geese.
Michael the Archangel went to Abraham disguised as a young soldier and found the patriarch in his field.
Abraham asked him, teach me, you're a suppliant.
Whence do you come and from what kind of army?
Michael's answer was sufficiently elusive to keep Abraham in the dark.
The two men then set out for a trip, but Michael refused to travel by horse, which sets the scene for the obligatory foot washing.
On their way, they encountered a cypress tree that spoke as an oracle, kind of like imagine the olive tree, it's like a prophecy, an oracle about the temple's destruction, about the people who didn't accept.
Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God who calls him to those who love him.
In Odyssey 19-296-299, Odysseus referred to the prophetic oak tree at Dodona, also compare the following.
If you want to read the right, I'll read Testament of Abraham like we've been doing before.
Let's read this.
You're reading Odyssey 19, go ahead and I'll read Testament of Abraham.
Odysseus disguised as a beggar,
catechized, crossed from Penelope for the first time in 20 years.
Michael is disguised as a soldier.
Stranger, I myself will ask you, whence is your lineage? Where are your city and parents?
Abraham, teach me your suppliant whence do you come from? What kind of army?
I have an old, oh, Odysseus dissimulates.
Michael obvius skates.
Oh, I see that there. I see that.
When they approach the house, they sat in the courtyard.
Penelope says, I have an old woman with a wise heart in her breast. She will wash your feet.
Though she is frail, wise Euryclea arise not, wow, and come, bathe this man who resembles your king.
Abraham said to Isaac his son, My child Isaac, draw water from the well and bring it to me
in the bowl so that we may wash the feet of the stranger, for he is weary having come to us on
a long journey. And Isaac, after running to the well, drew water into the bowl and brought it to them.
Continue.
I will wash your feet. Euryclea took the bowl and poured into it lots of water.
And Abraham approached and washed the feet of Arch Stratigo's Michael. The guts of Abraham were moved.
Euryclea, Dachroa, Diakblale, and of Penelope, Clioces.
And he wept for the stranger, and on seeing his father weeping, Isaac wept to wept.
When Euryclea recognized Odysseus' scar, she dropped his leg. It fell into the bowl and spilled the water.
Go ahead and read the bottom part. Odysseus 19 was known as the Niphthra washing.
When the Architegos saw them weeping, he went with them, and the tears of the arch, I'm just saying,
Arch Stratigo's fell into the water for washing, and they became precious stones.
When she recognized the scar, simultaneously joy and anguish overwhelmed her heart,
both her eyes filled with tears. When Abraham saw the marvel, he was stunned.
She promised Odysseus that she would keep the news of his return to herself until no one.
Took the stone secretly and hid the secret, keeping it only in his heart.
Abraham then ordered Isaac to prepare a bedroom with linens and a table with wonderful food for
the enjoyment of the guest, whose appearance surpasses all human beings. Penelope had given
her female slaves the same instructions. When Odysseus refused such hospitality,
she said that no stranger ever had come to her home who was as wise. After eating, Abraham,
Isaac, and the angelic stranger went to bed. God sent the mention of death into the heart of Isaac
as in dreams. Then Isaac weeping woke his father after hoping for a final embrace before his death.
Michael explained that Isaac had seen a terrifying dream and came to us weeping,
and when we saw this, we too were moved and wept. The narrator will say more about the dream later.
At this point, Sarah recognized that the stranger actually was one of the three angels
whom they had entertained in the past before conceiving Isaac. Abraham, when I was washing
his feet in the bowl of water for washing, I said in my heart, these are the feet of one of the
three men whom I washed long ago. And later, when his tears fell into the water of washing,
they became precious stones. He then showed Sarah the stones as proof. Abraham's washing of the
angel's feet and the petrified tears thus allowed Abraham to recognize the stranger's true identity
much as Eurychlea's washing of Odysseus' feet, and his childhood scar allowed Eurychlea to
recognize his true identity. Abraham next asked Isaac to narrate his dream which likely was modeled
after the dream that Penelope narrated to Odysseus, the beggar immediately after Eurychlea's
recognition. Surely, is it not by accident that Odyssey 19 and Testament Abraham 2-7
both narrate recognitions by hosts that wash the feet of strangers, followed by dreams with
symbolism requiring allegorical interpretations. Both dreams involve descending and ascending
characters. Eagle equals Odysseus, or luminous man equals Michael, and predictions of impending
death, the suitors or Abraham's. So there you go, there's another, this is around the same time,
this might be in like sort of maybe possibly the same, I don't know, practice being done.
Maybe it's from the same school, maybe?
Dennis is going to explain, but yeah, like I don't know if it's the same school,
it's almost like unanimous that was what you were taught at school, anywhere in the Roman Empire.
If you were going to learn Greek, you had to learn this, and I imagine the school teachers at the
time were probably saying, think about this, think about your people, like a good teacher would say,
think about the world. Everyone loved when they found out about Odysseus,
when he approached home, and nobody knew who he was. If you're going to write about a figure,
don't you want your figure to also reflect that? That's the kind of writing style you want, you
want to imitate. Here are some examples, and they might give Greek examples in Greek literature on
how they imitated Homer in their Greek material throughout time. They might bring up Virgil,
they might bring, I'm just saying, they might bring up examples of how they imitated,
and then they said, now student, now pupil, you imitate, you learn, you do it, practice, figure
it out. Now, they're out here, professional authors writing materials, like Robin Walsh says,
and here they are taking a Jesus character, imitating Odysseus to draw him in such a manner,
and not just that, these are Greek writings, right? The Testament of Abraham is Jewish
to the core, and it's Hellenized to the core imitating Greek material, but it is a Greek
writing, by the way. I just remembered something big. I don't even know how I forgot to bring
this up earlier. Revelation, and if you know the, when I started learning the Greek and I
looked back at it, I was like, oh my God, and look at this. In chapter 2013, the randomest thing
happens, the sea gave up its dead, and then death and Hades gave up their dead, and each one was
judged according to their deeds, then death and Hades were thrown into the like of fire.
Wait a minute, how come nobody asks about this? What it means? No one that says,
no one wants to, nobody's wondering why death, Hades, and by the way, see Thalassa,
or Thalaton in Attic, is a deity invoked in the Orphic hymns. Those are three different deities.
Sea, death, and Hades are all the Orphic gods that are in this scene, and they're giving up
their dead and being cast into the fire. It's interesting that it says then death and Hades
were thrown into the like of fire. Right, because you always think about them as locations. That's
what Christians have always been taught. It's like, hold on. There's no way you're going to convince
me, and this is about a location. In my opinion, John is talking about these three deities as if
they're daemons, dev like daemonic spirits, basically, because death and Hades and Thasila,
they were, these are three different deities according to the Orphic hymns who can have like,
they rule different parts of Hades. So they have souls in their realms. So what John is seeing,
John is seeing that these three rulers of Hades are no longer in power, and they're being cast
along with like a fire, along with everybody else. It's like a turning, it's like turning Hades on
its head, and saying Hades is no longer in power, death and sea, they're all just getting cast into
the fire. It's like a hopeful, hopefully this is what's going to happen. Absolutely, no. And
there's a lot, man, I think you might be onto something here, Neil, because when I was reading,
obviously, I don't know the Greek myself, but when I was reading John Jay Collins' Wonderful
Wife, Adele Yarbaugh Collins' book on the myth of, the combat myth of Revelation, when I was
reading through that, there's so much stuff. It's not just like Greek stuff. It's like,
there's other mythology that comes up in this book. So it doesn't blow my mind that this is
what's going on. What blows my mind is I've always read Hades as a location, not as a deity being,
like they perceive it as a deity, you know what I mean? Look at, the first hymn in the Orphic hymns
is to Moseas. And so, look at this, though, when you go, I mean, look at this. Thosila, sea,
that's a deity. You can, you can, you can offer hymns to the sea, Thosila. That's the same word
that's in the Revelation, Thalisa. That's the same word. Wow. So the Thalisa is being cast into the,
into the lake of fire. All right. This is myth, man. I'll check this out. Thalisa was one, right?
What's the next one we're going to find? It's going to be death, right? Yeah.
Let's see. There it is. 86, death. Thanatos. That's the same word that's in the Revelation,
Thanatos. Same word. So, and then, and then Hades is here too. I think I passed it. Hades is another,
another deity. Yeah, I know that. I think anybody knows that. It's the other two that people don't
know. Yeah. Everybody knows that Hades, but I, even though I knew that, I always still dichotomized
it and thought Hades was just a location. You know what I mean? Because you think Hades is hell,
right? It's cool though. Yeah. Right. But you're describing this as three deities in the end that
have to give up, you know, have to, they are going to be destroyed according to this author, it seems.
Yeah. That's exactly what's going on. That's exactly what's going on here.
Interesting. Interesting to, to look at it that way. I never really,
and by the way, what gives it away even more is that they're giving up their dead. What are they,
what do they have dead for? Because those are rulers and Hades. They're the rulers now. And
notice there's, so there is a location, of course. Yeah. We know in the afterlife, but
isn't it interesting that even in Greek world, like, it's not like everybody ended up in the same
location. There are different locations in the underworld. And Hades is, is one, I think, isn't
it the, what is it? Lusian builds. Yeah. That's where Saturn rules. Right. So there's different
places in the underworld. Okay. Speaking of Sabatios, there he is in the Orphic hymns. Great
Saturn's Cronus offspring. So he's the son of Saturn, Sabatios named, inserting Bacchus,
bearer of the vine and founding God within thy, within thy thigh, divan. Yep. That's the inside
of his bosom, in his bosom. That one that's sure to Dionysian God. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Because he,
because Zeus, after he zaps his, the mortal woman, because one of the other immortal goddesses were
jealous and said, Oh no, but you haven't seen his true identity, his true form. And of course,
lightning kills her. He ends up taking Dionysus from her womb and carries it to term in his thigh,
which you could say technically is his bosom. Does Abraham's bosom have something to do?
I think that that, that parable that we find in Luke about Abraham's bosom,
notice that the Lazarus is in Abraham's bosom. Is he being carried to term in this bosom of
Abraham? I don't know. It's wild. I don't know. Am I getting carried away? No, no, no, no.
Check this out. Clement of Alexandria had been informed of the secret mysteries of Sabatios
as practice among the Romans involved the serpent. And he says, God in the bosom is a
counter sign of the mysteries of the Sabatios to the adepts. He's saying that it's an inverse
of the Christ being in the bosom of the father. Damn. So he's identifying how similar they are,
but he's saying it's a counter sign. Get it? Yeah. Yeah.
You know, this, this is interesting as well, because in that story about the bosom that I was
talking about with Abraham, you have the rich man begging in agony, right? In this different
location. Notice another location. It's dry, obviously. He's hot. He needs a drink. And
there's a chasm that they can't get across. This reminds me of, when me and Dennis were talking
about this, this reminds me of Tantalus. He's down there and he's tantalizing is where we get the
word tantalizing from. He's wanting to eat the foods, foods just out of reach. The waters just
below his lips. He can't lick it up. He can't get the water. This mythology, here we are finding
in what I think is this Abraham's bosom with Lazarus and the rich man. And I think that's
what's going on. It's just another spin off of it. Oh, and here's so to say they didn't borrow
from these Greeks. Nice try. Yeah. I remember I was looking for the Hades one, but in this case,
it's Pluto. Are we, are we not having fun? I mean, dude, I don't usually go this long. Yeah.
By the way, you don't think super chats because I don't want to know. I've got more. Do we want
to get those? Keep going. Keep going. Yeah. All right. So, so, you know, we get carried away
sometimes. I don't like to leave people hanging. Christie, thank you so much for the super chat.
First Corinthians 1513. If there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen.
Saul's legend had to be resurrected for Paul's story to live.
Saul's legend had to be resurrected for Paul's story to live. Interesting way to put it. Would
it have been as popular if they didn't use and imitate what was going on in the legend of Saul
with King David? You know what? I did a video. I did 25 parallels from the Old Testament to the
New. And I just think that this is part of the way they're constructing the story of Jesus is
they're trying to intersect and dissect and connect it with threads going back and forth
to all the characters of the Old Testament. Every character in the Old Testament
has some sort of connection to Jesus somehow. I mean, at least if they're good characters. Right.
If they're like really big, I mean, there's good chance at least they get a blip, right? They get
a little tiny something, something. Lady Babylon is offering us a virtual PhDs here saying great
work. Keep up the great work. Thank you, man. I really appreciate you, Amon. It means a lot. And
if you haven't subscribed to Lady Babylon, you should. He is fun. Let me tell you, I love watching
him. Chelsea Taylor says maybe Enoch had to be taken away so he could be the reincarnated Jesus.
Shower thoughts. I wouldn't use the term to reincarnated Jesus, though, though I could see why
someone might think that in light of Enoch is in one of the passages. And I can't remember where I
was talking to John Collins about this. He is seated at the right hand. Yeah, he has that Christ
like story, too. He's the Son of Man. You can see Enoch is being like a precursor to a Christ.
Right. So here you have Jesus being the Son of Man. You have Enoch being the Son of Man,
both seated at the right hand of God. Both are taken. Enoch doesn't die, but both are taken up.
And Enoch is taken up. Jesus is taken up into heaven. I don't think they're reincarnated. I just
think it's another Jewish type of apotheosis tale and legend, but it is interesting. Is this the case?
Enoch becoming a meditron? I think some people do take that serious. Yeah. I'd have to ask John
Collins or someone who's well aware of Enoch better. I don't like to profess. Jason's just our
Justin Sludge, Dr. Sludge. He's done some meditron Enoch stuff, too. So I think that's a good source
for that. Philip, great, great point. Yellow Psych says, you think the Canites are the real
Christians? Neil, you know more about the Canites than I do. The Canites are the badasses of the
Christian second century. They decided that Satan is the good one. Yahweh is the bad one.
And they decided that Cain was the hero. Abel was the bad one because he murdered an animal,
and Cain just offered up some fruits from the garden. So he was peaceful, which is the Pythagorean
Bacchic Way. And they said that E was the hero. The serpent was an allier. This is what the Canites
were all about. They flipped everything on its head, which is like when I found out about these
guys, these are real badasses of their time. I like them. I can't help but like them.
Didn't Litwa introduce them initially? Yeah, you got lost into them.
I don't know if we know any of the names of them. We just know who they are. Because it's all from
the mouth of the Hippolytes. But they're interesting, though.
Yeah, Yellow, thank you for the super chat and support, my friend. Mark Peralta, who helped us
earlier figure out the the parikopee and first Samuel responding back to Acts 9 and 1 Samuel 26.
They also have in common, both Saul here and guess correctly, the voice of the other. What
are the chances that Paul knew Jesus' voice to recognize it? Sounds like mimesis indeed. Great
point. Absolutely. There's so many things going on because I see Euripides-Bakai, I see first Samuel,
what we're talking about here, Euripides-Bakai, and I see the Caesar Romulus postmortem appearances
on a road. Dude, Luke has them on the road to Emmaus, right? Remember they're walking for like three
hours, don't even know the person they're talking with? That's Jesus. Then they get in the house,
he comes in and he breaks the bread and they're like, and he disappears. Okay, that's the Luke
story. Luke also wrote Acts. Here's Paul on a road. Boom. You have a disappearance. It's a road
appearance and that happened with Caesars after they died. They appeared to people, eyewitnesses of
them on roads, on Roman roads. The same thing happens with Romulus to Prochialus Julius. He
appears to him. He's an eyewitness. He's a noble senator. And it goes to the right hand of the
father too. Right hand, boom. He becomes the new Curinus because there was a God before Romulus.
Yeah, I don't know how to pronounce them. They just merge them together into one thing later on.
You know, have you ever heard of a channel called Fortress of Lou? No. This dude, I don't know if
he's a scholar or what. I assume he is because he's just all over it. He was explaining how
they weren't merged at first. This was a later, almost maybe even Augustan era thing,
like Livy's time, first century BC era, when they started doing that. But like before that,
those were two, Curinus and Romulus are two separate things. He was showing all the evidence
for that stuff. But that's a channel I really like. Well, dude, you don't know who it is?
Uh-uh. Oh, okay. You need to send me that. Yeah, I'll show you later.
Wayne says, Luke didn't write Acts, LOL. Acts merely claims to be by the same author as Luke.
Look, I'm just going to go with the consensus on this. You might be right, but I know John
Dominic Cross and then several other academics have made a good point that they think that the
same author may have written it, just may have written it a little later. Don't know.
Even if it wasn't the same author, this author of Acts would have been working off of what we see
in Luke, canonical Luke. So I just, I don't think it's a LOL thing because most of the scholars
out there actually think that the author of Luke wrote Acts as well. So I don't, could be wrong.
I just don't think it's a LOL moment. Like it's like saying, you think Paul exists? Maybe Paul
didn't exist, but like everyone across the board pretty much thinks he did. I don't think it's a
LOL moment is all I'm saying. So you could be right. I just don't think it's, I got you.
Neil, can you tell everybody, the 200 people here, why they should subscribe to Nasta Conformant?
Well, if you like these deep dives that you saw today, then you can definitely go look for my
channel. I'm going to pull it up actually. Pull it up, man. Share that thing because I want to
give a shout out to you for you. Sometimes shameless plugs suck, but when someone else
does them for you, Neil started out. I'm going to give you the story. You're here, right? Yeah.
Neil started out interviewing me. He had like 300 subscribers, 400 subscribers. Maybe you had
500 at the time. I don't know. You had like half of a thousand. It was less than a thousand for sure.
For sure, man. I remember the day I went over a thousand because it was, I did a video on your
channel and I watched him go up and I was like, Oh my God. And you interviewed me, man. And you
didn't. Yeah. Yeah. And like, you're just like, I don't know. How do I put it, man? You're just
kind of like, just being you trying to figure it out. But you were very, you were very much into
kind of the zeitgeist-ish, you know, era in a way. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I was very fringe at the time.
Very fringe. And dude, no shame in the game, bro. I've been. I was all about maybe Augustus is
Christ. Maybe that's what's going on. That's what my mind was at. I was just like, man, you have
such enthusiasm. You have a spark, right? You have a spark of gnosis. And I knew I was like,
Hey, bro, off record after recording me. I was like, you have what it takes. You do know that,
right? And you're like, really? And I'm like, no, I'm serious, dude. I think you really have what
it takes. You should try. You know, you seem to want to do this more. You are working at the time
or you were in between jobs. You work and do or making tires. That's right. You're working in
night shifts, dude. Good year, right? Yeah. Killing yourself. And I was like, man, you really,
really, really need to put some more eggs in this basket and kick your kick some butt. And you did.
You'd work night shift, drinking energy, drink with or pre-workout, whatever the hell it was
at the time. And then you'd make a video and you do an interview and you'd go. And next thing you
know, man, you know, you just made enough just to barely get by. And that's when it took off.
Yeah, I had two days off a week and then both of those days I was making videos.
That was a crazy time because every day I was doing something. I was never.
Now you're almost at half a hundred K. I probably still put in just as many hours now. Just now
it's just on this though. Yeah, you don't have to die. You were killing yourself, driving to the
factory. Yeah. Frickin, I'd call you and then there's the belt and the tires being made.
And then I'll deal with, uh, after, after doing a 12 hour shift, someone walking up to me and say,
oh, the guy just called in on your machine. We need more, four more hours from you.
We're gonna make that, we're gonna make that 12 hours, 16 hours now. So.
Yeah. And then we'll see you back and then we'll see you back in eight hours after that. So you're
gonna get home and get some sleep and come right back within eight hours. So it's like.
How far was the factory from your house?
Half hour. It's like, you get it. So you're home in a shower. That's an hour gone. Now you have
seven hours left. You got time to take a sleep. Like it's, it was crazy. That place was nuts.
I don't even know why anyone, I don't know. That place was nuts. When I'm thinking about it,
now I'm just like, wow, that place was, they would do that to you. I'm not kidding. They would,
you'd do 16 hours and it'd be like back in eight, seeing eight hours.
Hurry up, get home. What are you doing? What are you waiting for? You better get there.
They would say that shit. I'm not kidding. Man, you, you've been kicking by it. And that's why
I go to bat for you, man. And we have a lot in common. In fact, someone might conflate us and
think we're the same people. Um, we've both been in legal trouble. We've both been arrested and
been in jail. We've both had drug addiction with the same drugs.
Right. And you know what I noticed? You're two years older than me. You've been clean two years
longer than me. Yeah. And your channel is two years older than me. So I'm, it's almost like
everything that you're doing is two years ahead of me. I'm just following you.
And I'm all, and I'm double YouTube size. And you have exactly double my size.
Pretty much. Yeah. Cause you're 44 and I'm at about double my views about there.
Yeah. And I'm at what, where am I at on subs, by the way? I'm about to,
I'm hoping I get 50, 50 within the next month, maybe. Yeah.
Man, it's, it's, it's not coincidence. It's been a long time. It's been a long time coming.
Right. I just, I wanted to give you a plug, man. You came, hung out with me all this time.
I hope you got a lot of super chats for this. Cause this is a good level of speed out to be able
to. Well, how can people help you other than subscribe to your YouTube channel?
Join the Patreon or join a membership if you want. If you can, other than that,
just watch videos. Give me some watch time. That's it.
That is a big plus. And you can feel, if you're not like watching it,
you can play it in the background and just walk away and turn it down so you don't have to
do it in your family. Just, you know, plug your phone up, hit the thing,
keep it on. Like, I swear this helps. I cannot tell you how much this helps.
Derek wants in a while. That'd be cool. Yeah. You think about us and you're like,
man, those boys are busting their hump. The least I could do is hit the video on,
turn the volume down so no one's bothered by it and walk away. You can do it on your computer
or your computer on your phone. That helps. That'll help Neil. The other thing is, Neil,
I just found out from Stacey, who was in here at the beginning. Stacey's mom's got it going on.
I'm always reminded by the song, is people can buy membership programs for other people.
I did not know this. So, like, if you felt giving or whatever and you're like, hey,
I want other people to see their early access or I want them to have the privilege of being
a member of this channel, you can buy at the bottom right next to Superchats. You can get,
I think it's, is that how you do it? Buy Superchats?
Think so. You can buy? Yeah, that's right where the Superchats are. Yeah.
Can you pull up mine on your YouTube? Pull up my live stream on your YouTube,
because this is what they could do for your channel too. I could do it on my phone.
I was gonna say, if you share your screen too, so, so if you pull it up in the URL right next
to where you have your YouTube, open up my thing right here on your, where you have it up. I have
my, um, I can just do it up here, right? Go to your, yeah, just open up MythVision. Yeah. And then
go to the live we're on. So we're going to look at our own live right now. I don't think you're
all right. And yep. And then go down to like your Super Chatting. I already liked it.
Yeah. Go down to Superchats. Like you're going to give me a Super Chat. You know how you go to
give someone a Super Chat? Yeah. Oh, I was going to go to the ad to go away, but I guess you don't
have to. Okay. I think there's a way there. Click it. Let's see if you get the money thing.
Membership. Membership. So it says join for members only. You don't have to join, dude. You
don't have to join, dude. I already did actually. Yeah, I know, but you don't have to man. I, you,
like we work hard together, bro. So I don't expect that. Even though I am your damn member
of your channel. I'm not putting the guilt on you right now. I thought I already was a member.
You were. Don't worry about it. Oh, renew. There you are. It's not your fault that you
don't want to support me, but I support you. Okay. It's not, Neil, you don't have to do this.
I only want to. Do you notice how I'm struck? I'm like, don't worry about it. I got it. I got it.
I was supposed to renew it anyway. I'm teasing you right now. Do you see the guilt trip I'm putting
Neil in right now? I want to, I want to be a member. Are you kidding me? You see it? I'm kidding.
How do I see it? Oh, I do see it. I just didn't renew it. That's all. So wait,
after it runs out, you have to renew it. I thought I'm a freaking, I'm like a like 12,
13 months member of yours. Good. Well, I think I should be right behind you,
but there's a way to buy memberships just so you know, and it's not just you, but like people
can come in and give them. And we give early access sometimes to stuff. Let me go back to that.
Well, your stuff back up. I want to see your channel again. I like, dude, I love promoting you,
man. No, I want to go to your video so I can show people how to do that. So in case they're
wondering, that's what I wanted to do. How to become a member. Yeah. So hold on a second.
Phillip became a member yesterday. Someone gifted it. Yeah. So now here membership gifting.
Yep. That's it. Don't do it, but you see what I'm saying. Let's give one out.
Really? Yeah, I'll give one more out. You don't have to do that. No, I appreciate all the promotion,
man. Okay. So this is one person randomly? I don't know. I gave it out. Whoever gets it,
gets it. I don't know how that works. We're about to find out who just got the membership
program thing. I don't know, but let's just, let's see. If you do, I'm going to tell you right
now. Brilliant. Brilliant. Good. Congratulations. This is fun, but she was more often. Dude,
we should. We should do whoever wants to watch tonight. You might, you're entered in for a
free membership. Oh my gosh. I did not know that. You should do that every once in a while,
or at least once a day or something, right? That's freaking awesome that you can do that.
So Virillian, congratulations on that. Wow. Is it show up on the thing or didn't show up on the
thing? I don't know. That's how did you see that? I showed up on my side. It says, Virillian was
gifted by a membership by Nostag conformant. Brilliant. Cool. I'm glad to be able to do that.
Oh, it shows it on the YouTube. Yeah, it shows it on the YouTube. Streamyard.
That's why I didn't see anything give out yesterday. Everyone that's watching can see it,
so you're good. Oh my gosh. Oh, and someone else just became a novice, Beth Haiku.
What? Hopefully I didn't miss anyone else. People, yeah, Beth Haiku, congratulations.
Oh my gosh. Awesome. Welcome to the team. Well, listen, I'm going to tell you like this,
and Neil's doing this too. Neil's been busting. Neil, that was disappointing what happened with
your getting, trying to get into Canada, but Neil's working his butt off. He's going to be
bringing some content that isn't available immediately. You get early access, but there's
also the special symbols you get next to your name and the treatment you get in the chat and stuff.
I freaking have so many videos that aren't on YouTube public, but they are on the membership
thing. So if you're a member, you should be able to go and access as a member, go to my,
here, take to my landing page. Now that you're a member, Neil,
go into, go to my page on your YouTube. Yeah, see perks. Log in, share screen. Yep,
share screen real quick. No, go to community. I think it's, might be under community, man.
Go to share screen. See perks. Yes, see perks, right? Okay, you're seeing it. All of this is
not public yet. So you got to get, so this is all membership only, all that's membership only
right now. By the way, my channel has a few of these too. One of them is a video with Amon.
It's a members only. I only have a couple right now, but I'm going to get more.
But yeah, you have a whole bunch of them, dude. Bro, listen, I just edited. Let me just brag for
a second about Rick Miller. I did one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 16, 16 videos. Only two of them are on YouTube public right now. 14 videos right now
with Rick Miller are on the membership and the Patreon. So both, both are accessible. I only
have four more to edit there. That'll be 20 videos with him. Man, I got two courses to edit with
Karakuni, the Egyptologist, and you don't want to miss that course when that comes out. We're
almost done with one of the Robin Faith Walsh courses on Paul. So I've got that, man. I just did
the edit with Kip Davis. I did another edit with Dennis McDonald that we just did. Oh, look at that.
Reneal, though, Reneal Rodriguez. Thank you for joining. Oh, man. Holy snap. And just in case
anyone was wondering, not to cut you up, but probably Matt figured it out. If you turn on
the loud gifts in your settings, you will make it so that when people send a gift, you'll be,
it sends to you. I don't know how it works. I didn't choose that. I didn't,
not that I wouldn't have chose you, but I didn't choose who it was. I just went there.
I swear this. Not that I wouldn't have chosen it really. The first time I heard about a gifting
of this was today. And now I know we can really, like there's some people, this is what I'm saying.
I've had a lot of people where I make mine and you do the same thing. My Patreon is $3
to join. You can access all the videos, right? There are some people who are going through life
and you know what I mean, bro. Yeah. That can't even afford that right now or just,
are they're behind? They're negative in their account. How can they do it? This is the best thing
YouTube could have done because now someone who's more fortunate, who's been through the struggle,
maybe they're not, they can gift this. And that's what's so important. That's dude. This is so good.
So we got to do a stream. I owe you a live stream on your channel, bro.
Yeah, let's do it. I'm set it up.
And I definitely like the idea, we'll figure it out. I like the idea that's going forward. We can
try to give up, give one out every once in a while. Once, you know, I will gift.
Give a couple. I will, I will gift. Yes, put a little, a little money, a little bit, a budget
aside for gifts. I think it's worth it. I'll do it for my channel. You know,
I'm going to do what you did for me on yours. So I'm already a member of them.
Next time I'm live and Derek's there, make sure you add that on so you can get that gift. So
stay tuned. Plus with my channel, you have a better chance of winning because it's not as
many people watching. The odds are better. Well, not necessarily sometimes, bro.
We have some poppin lives over there on yours. A couple hundred people.
Yeah, sometimes I've cracked 200 once in a while.
Let's do it, man. Usually it's like 110, something like that, 100.
It depends. Depends on the topic. Depends on what's going on. Depends on, you know.
Yeah. But Neil, I hope people will subscribe. Your YouTube is, did I put it in the description?
I think I did. I should not. If not, if I didn't, I committed the biggest send
for giveable blaspheme. I mean, it's not that hard to find.
My name, Gnostic Formant, is right in front of my name.
Oh, I did. I did. Well, even if you did and someone can just type in Gnostic Formant,
it'll come right up. I did subscribe to Gnostic Formant. I put that there.
Yeah. So I'm not, I'm not, not forgiven for the unforgivable. I love everybody.
Seriously appreciate everybody. Even the naysayers who pop in and disagree in the chat or whatever.
Neil, what do you have to say, man? I just, I'm thankful that you came through.
Well, hopefully you've attained higher than Gnosis tonight. You've attained Apotheosis. So
if that's where you're at, then congrats. Well, love you, brother. And let's do one on your
stream next. I owe you. And thank you everybody for liking. Oh, we didn't check the poll.
I, I, I create the poll because sometimes people forget. Let's see how many people liked. We had
398 votes, 56 per super chat. Smash. Neil, with your sexy voice, please make an eight-hour
long video for me to see. I will. I'll do it. Back to the Apotheosis. Yeah,
where I want to tell you. Yeah, right? Nice. Smashing the page hierarchy tonight.
We're going to listen to his voice. Neil is going to speak. Actually, that's what you do when you
do your audience. I get in the zone and I just, yeah. And then Hercolantis of Apophradides. You
know, like whatever the hell you're doing. Muse guides me. Muse guides me. The Muse. That's what,
that's what the, the ancient Greeks, if it's Homer or Hesiod, it always starts off with
Muse. Tell us about the story. Like, or the Muse inspired me. So I, I, I take from that idea. Oh,
we've got Cataclysm. I won't be sleeping to it. Use a freak in the sheets. Oh, crazy. Oh, that's
so funny. Go to his only fans as well. I forgot to mention Neil hasn't. Oh, thank you for being
such a great audience. I seriously, I'm telling you, we get the coolest freaking team of people
that, that support and watch us, man. Thank you. Love you. Are we doing the matrix outro? Is that
what we're doing, Neil? Sounds like we're doing it. Or are we doing the apocalypse? What are we
doing, man? Apocalypse. Apocalypse. All right. That one's a little shorter, but let me do the
longer version of it. Here we go. Son, do you want to know what the truth is? That's not the damn
thing. I did it again here.
