Ladies and gentlemen, I decided to get an expert on the Muslim faith Islamic literature
Shadi Nasir
Dr. Nasir joins me today. I asked him the question is the Quran a miracle many Muslims have joined on to my channel
I've openly had a platform where they could discuss that doesn't mean I'll always keep it open
But they've come on and they said well people memorize the whole book as if that's somehow a miracle
I mean compare that to someone walking on water right or someone raising the dead right that sounds like more of a
Miracle than people just memorizing are there natural explanations that better fit the data that Muslims aren't paying attention to
Are there traditions outweighing the rational position of being a skeptic on their own stance?
I think so, but let's ask an expert today. See what he has to say about this topic
I
Ladies and gentlemen join myth visions patron not only to support us
But there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier all on the patron early access
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're helping myth vision grow
Thank you for the introduction and I will try my best to answer
You know questions you have to the best of my ability as I said
So you want me to tell you of the Quran as a miracle or not? This is the question the first question
Yes, and I know sometimes it's gonna be your opinion on certain things
Sure, I want to try and take a scientific method a historical
Approach and be critical of what we actually find in the data
How one interprets that is up to them, but it seems to me when someone claims this book was literally a miracle
It's perfect as it is
They kind of downplay variant readings. They don't really see how that might play a significant role. I
Look at biblical studies and I could see okay
We don't have the original. We we definitely don't have that
There's so many different variants and manuscripts, etc in the tradition is
Islam or is Muslim faith in the Quran sharing the same kind of motif in a way?
Right, okay, so there are many questions to
To answer here. So let us start with you know first the miracle issue in
When we are studying
Scripture all right in an academic setting. I don't think we I think most at least most academics. We are not
really concerned with
Trying to research such questions, you know, is the Quran a miracle or not, you know, at the end of the day
It's a subjective opinion, you know for people to find, you know, this book or you know, the Quran as a miracle
Other people don't think it's a miracle. It's as you know, it's as simple as that
So there are many academics who are not Muslims who approach
studying the Quran as a great book
Okay for Islamic civilization and they study it even though that they are not Muslims. They have great respect for the book
There are other academics, you know, who don't hold the Quran to such standards and they think that, you know
It is written by, you know, a person in the 7th century
It's full of mistakes, contradictions and they also base their research
Starting from that
If you want, you know viewpoint
There are also Muslims, you know, who research the the text starting from the perspective that it is a miracle
There are other Muslims who are
Allegedly objective and they also try to approach the text as just a literary text
How it was transmitted what it says regardless whether it's a miracle or not
So I don't think in academia we are concerned with proving or disproving that the Quran is a miracle
Okay, that's not, you know, I don't recall reading an academic article that tries to prove that
Or disprove it, right?
So what it means to you know for for at least for Muslims that the Quran is a miracle that you know, they
think that
That the Quran holds
First, you know, there are several if you want several layers of that first that
language
Okay, so
It's written in a literary language that is very eloquent. It was revealed to the prophet. He challenged
You know, the Arabs back then to compose something similar
You know in in eloquence
According to the tradition they failed they couldn't
Thus
You know, the Islamic tradition says that this is why the Quran is a miracle because no one was able to imitate its style
Okay, now whether this is true or not, that's open to discussion
You know, we do have many attempts for people
Back in the days and even recently that they try to emulate the style of the Quran
Now whether they are successful or not, that's a subjective issue, right?
So you can read something and then you would like it. You would say, oh, well, I like this piece of literature
I think this is better than
You know, this chapter or that chapter of the Quran as a reader, right as a reader
But of course if you are, you know, holding this text as the
Perfect example of eloquence, you are going to downplay
any attempt
Right to emulate it. So at the end of the day, it's very difficult to be subjective
in in matters of
Literary taste to say that oh this text is more eloquent than this because I feel it
So that begs the question to say
From a scholarly point of view, I asked to put those scholarly glasses on because that's what you are
How did the Quran come to us?
Based on the evidence we have and not just what the tradition wants to necessarily say
Um, how did the Quran come to us? Because from what I understand, there are multiple even within the tradition
This is the problem. This is the problem. I see even within the tradition
You have Abu Bakr and then you have other
Traditions within the Islamic faith that are saying no, this is what happened
He went around and he collected the memory of the the recitation of the Quran from warriors that were dying
And they didn't want them all to die off. So we're collecting all this and then there's another tradition
And I'm probably missing some things because I'm sure I will I will reiterate
Yeah, and then this other guy and he's trying to do this and that and like they're all trying to explain how we got the Quran
in tradition
And I want to try and give tradition its opportunity
But I also want to look at it
Empirically from the scholarly point of view on what scholars have concluded saying this is how we actually think
We we come to the conclusion and maybe we'll never know exactly how but that's okay
I like to to investigate
Okay, so first point. Let's talk about memory and memorization
I think one of the problems
Especially western scholars when they study Islam. Okay regardless of their background. Okay
There are certain cultural elements that they are not aware of
Okay, and then they learn it, you know, they study Arabic. They study Islam and then, you know, they learn it. Okay
Well, memorizing text is, you know, important in their tradition. But to what extent? Okay
if you grow up in
You know, a Middle Eastern slash eastern not just Middle Eastern. I mean, there are even eastern cultures, you know, the Chinese the Japanese
They also cherish memorization. Okay, the certain element of memorization at least in the western environment
It's not as important. Okay, or as evident as it is in the in the Middle East
so when
You know, you'll hear
You know a story about
You know people memorizing, you know, the text of the Quran or memorizing, you know, hadith
We can talk about this later or poetry. It's like, oh, how is it possible that, you know, all people can memorize all this amount of information
Accurately, so that's now the the issue here accurately
So our problem or our issue here is the accurate part. It's not the memorization part
So to what so we already know that the this tradition or this culture
Their individuals they do memorize texts. Okay
Uh, a lot of texts. We are talking about thousands of poems. We are talking about, you know
Six thousand two hundred three hundred verses of the Quran and it is evident today
You have, you know, young children who can by the age of five or six
They can memorize the whole text of the Quran and we're not talking about one or two individual
It's just a normal practice, right in this kind of culture
um
They said that was a miracle too, by the way
Well, no, it's not
Well, again, it is subjective but you can teach the kid anything, right?
So you can teach them the Quran you can teach them the bible to to to memorize it
They can you can teach them music, you know, there are children who are five or six years old who memorize scores of
Of symphonies and so on, right?
So you can teach a kid anything so the miracle is if you have a i don't know a 60 year old
or 70 year old who
Who who who tries to memorize the text will he or she be able to memorize the text as
Perfectly or as good as a five year old kid. So that's the the
so the point here is that
Uh, you know, it is a culture that relies on memorization of texts more than writing
So we'll get now to writing when we tackle this the issue of memorization in you know
in research, we don't question the fact that
Arabs or muslims
Do memorize the texts we question
The accuracy like to what extent is it really, you know that
The 70 people who were killed at the battle that you were mentioning right abu bakr when he wanted to collect
The Quran why the first account of the collection?
So why did he
People according to the tradition muslims or the companions of the prophet, you know, they memorized the the Quran. Okay
most of it
And uh, then there was the apostasy
Of wars. Okay, during abu bakr's time
When after after muhammad died, you know, there are tribes in the south, you know, who reverted
Okay, so he went and he fought them in the south according to the account
70 of these people of these memorizers of the Quran they died
And then the account says well because they were afraid that those people who memorized the Quran
Uh are dying and then the Quran would be lost. So he
Uh, you know suggested let us
Collect it so that it's not going to be lost. Okay
Now there are many there are issues with this, you know with this tradition
One of the questions that you know researchers ask is that what do we know about these 70 people who died in the battle?
We don't have their names. Okay, and other researchers are just suggested that, you know, probably those 70
Um
Readers, why would you send 70 reciters of the Quran to fight in a battle? Okay? Good question
Uh
Questions to if I might add sometimes I might throw some things in here. Yeah, please do. Yeah
Um, the academic arena, if you will recognizes for example, there is this
Narrative a supposed historical narrative of how the Septuagint came to be
There were 70 scribes who supposedly went and translated the Hebrew into greek now
Many of these scholars will say we know that a translation took place
But 70, you know, it's a significant number
It kind of carries some religious and spiritual probably numerological
Significance and so to buy into the tradition that this is actually historically accurate
You know, what if it's trying to say something different is the point or no, I agree with you
Again, it's the number seven. We have, you know, the the tradition of the seven ahroh for the seven modes
It's also seven, you know, seven skies seven earths in me
There's something about number seven in the near east at least so it's not just, you know to
So, I mean whether they were 70 or you know, 68 or 60. I don't know but the the question is
Uh, we don't have a full list of the names of these people
Okay, and the question is we also have other accounts in, you know, and other traditions that the prophet would send
Readers the word, you know, to fight
And one, you know, a question that was raised by, you know, a couple of scholars is that
Why would you send Quran reciters, you know, to fight and other, you know, these two scholars
They suggested that, you know, yombo back in the
Think 20 25 years and an article and recently behanan sadiq also
He gave a lecture on this and probably his article came out recently
Is that the word qare or reader it had double meaning back then
Okay, so it means, you know, um a hermit
Slash, you know people who came from a specific region in in iraq and they were called
And there was a mix between the uh, you know, the two the two terms
That's an interpretation at least, you know, trying to get away from
The narrative that you have 70 quran reciters who died in a battle for
And we don't know anything about them, right?
So so back to the question of this is the first collection
So they were afraid that the quran would be lost and, you know, applebacker. He suggested to collect the quran
So that it will not be lost
And then what happened is that they assigned, you know, one of the younger companions his name is zaid
And then they told him well, you know, you are young you're energetic
You know, why don't you start collecting the quran?
And then he said, how could I do something that the prophet didn't do?
Okay, so that's another, you know question
So how why the narrative says is that why how could we do something that the prophet didn't do
Meaning that if the prophet didn't collect the quran, why shouldn't
Ladies and gentlemen, join the vision patron not only to support us, but there are 72 videos that I did
Dr. Denison McDonald and Richard Carrier all on the patreon early access
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're helping myth vision grow
