Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote, the atheist handbook to the Old Testament.
It is extremely full of knowledge and information for anyone, as well as join the Patreon.
There's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Music
Dr. Joshua Bowen, Daniel is the truth.
And you need to believe it was written in the 6th century BCE, hallelujah.
Seriously though, is Daniel lying?
Is the author lying?
And is this book a forgery?
I did an interview with Dr. Richard Carrier.
We called it how we know the book of Daniel is a forgery, right?
And you might have differences with Dr. Carrier if you really like looked at everything you might have said.
Can we trust Daniel?
Yeah, I mean, so certainly, you know, Dr. Majors, Doc Majors,
is, you know, he wrote his dissertation very recently, obviously, on this.
So, you know, he's got quite an extensive background.
Of course, Richard Carrier's historiographical observations on the book, I think, or I mean, I enjoy the video.
So, I guess what I would say is that I would want to be clear about what we mean by things like lie and forgery.
When we hear those words today, there's a moral component, I think, that's added to them.
And so, like, you hear, it's a lot like, did the Bible plagiarize Mesopotamian literature?
And that word plagiarize, it's again, it's got this moral component to it.
And I don't think that moral component is there.
So, when I think about Daniel, the question, I think, is Daniel presenting,
actively presenting things that it knows to be true?
No, I don't think that's the case.
I think, I mean, the author knows, the writer knows that he's writing in, you know, 165, 164.
He knows that.
And what he's presenting is, he's presenting it as a book that's written from the point of view of, you know,
this sixth century guy that probably never existed, right?
So, in that respect, I'm fine calling it a lie.
As long as we understand that the connotations, we might not necessarily tie these moral connotations to it.
So, there is a, and I mean, certainly people like John Collins, far more, you know,
he spent half his life writing on the book than Daniel, far more qualified to talk to this, to speak to this.
But, you know, the book of Daniel is doing something, and that's the key.
It's apocalyptic literature.
It's early apocalyptic literature.
And it still doesn't have, you know, the full, you know, like the book of Revelation or something,
development of the apocalyptic genre.
But it's definitely apocalyptic, and it's doing something.
And that thing that it's doing is trying to bolster the confidence of its audience.
And so, giving, I think about something like, you know, when kings or rulers in the early second millennium
are calling back to kings in the third millennium, sometimes legendary kings in the third millennium,
to try to add this, you know, feeling or this appearance of antiquity to what they're saying or the authority that they have.
And this, of course, is, you know, one of the aspects of this is trying to have this verisimilitude.
But of this ancient, this older, you know, reaching back into the past, and that gives it authority.
And you see the same thing like with the book of Deuteronomy, right?
You know, Josiah's, the priestess has come out with, oh my gosh, we found the scroll, it's amazing.
And of course, you know, I think it's, Joe Baden talked to you about this.
Like, yeah, did he find a scroll?
No, I mean, it probably produced that, right?
So, but the way that it's, the way that it's set up, the way that it's put forward is this gives it this antiquity, gives it this authority.
So then with the book of Daniels, sure, the book of Daniel, the writer, the compilers, whatever, they know that they're writing later,
they're talking about events that yet they know are historic, they're in history rather than in prophecy.
But the reason that they're doing it, the rationale behind it is to tell the second century audience to give them this encouragement.
Yes, hold on just a little bit longer because, you know, the reign of God is coming very quickly.
And if we can just endure just a little bit longer through, you know, these incredibly difficult times and what's getting ready to come around the corner,
you know, them will, you know, you know, it's like telling your kid, you're just a little bit longer and we're going to hang tough in the car a little bit longer and we're going to be at the theme park.
You know, everything's going to be really, really great, but just hang on another 10 minutes.
So again, I don't know that I would assign, I think it is a forgery in the sense and I think it's a lie in the sense that the writer knows that he's trying to depict this text
as written by somebody that he knows it's not written by.
Could I, could I maybe define it like this and tell me if you like this title better? It's a noble lie.
And I don't think, you know, we, we talk about lies, Christians love to say you're not supposed to lie at all, but a white lie are good lies.
I think that sometimes they're required or necessary to tell your loved one, don't worry, they're going to be okay.
Even if you know it's not good or whatever, you're doing it to comfort them.
You're psychologically giving them what they need.
Can I give you one quick analogy of something interesting?
My friend's a mentalist, right? Mark Chuchera. He's a, you know what a mentalist is, I'm sure.
It's a TV show?
No, no, no. No, it's people who can do magic, but they also know how, like, you know, a magician, but they know how to do it with the mind.
They know how to kind of manipulate people's minds to know predictively like what you're thinking, right?
So they know how to get into your head a little.
He bumps into this nurse at a, at a hospital and I use this analogy to kind of point out also why like people believe in things, even if they're not true.
But it's really interesting how easily people believe and he bumps into this nurse.
Somehow he gets to talk about what her name is and he said four days ago or three days ago.
I was in my room praying and God like told me that you're going to be bumping into this person and you need to give her this message.
But I need to know that this is you.
So I need you to pick a card out of 52.
I need you to tell me your favorite color.
I need to tell me what your favorite food is.
Something simple like these things.
He said, oh my God, it's you.
And he pulls up his phone, opens his phone and there's a picture of him holding a, a written thing with a timestamp of when her name is on it.
The favorite food, the card, the food, the color, all of that's on this card.
And he's like, it's you.
She just starts to cry.
Literally just balls immediately starts to tear up and cry.
And I said, dude, that's crazy.
Like she believes she's a, I've been waiting for a sign from God.
I've been going through so much in my life and you brought that sign to me.
Now mind you, my friend's an atheist.
Okay.
Well, I said, dude, did you tell her?
He said, no, why would I ever want to tell her and take away the thing that I just gave her?
She walked away and it literally changed her life.
And I was like, huh, huh.
It made me think Dr. Josh.
And I just say that to say like, I'm not saying this isn't that same exact category, but like, I think the author's intentions aren't bad.
Right.
You see what I mean?
So when we say lie, I think you think bad.
Yeah.
No, I don't, I tell white lies to my children sometimes to make them feel good about something, to tell them something right.
So could we put that in that kind of category?
Yeah.
I mean, I, I think that the author thinks he's doing the right thing.
Right.
I don't think he's, I, and again, you're getting back to things like intent is very difficult.
But given the context and given what, you know, they're, they're trying to do, you know, I suspect that what is it that you always hear?
There's a vicious circularity in logic.
And then there's what's the, what's the one that I can't remember, but it's like the righteous circularity.
But that's not what it is.
But yeah.
So I think that is the same thing as circular reasoning, but you know, one is vicious and one is not.
You know, one is like good.
Exactly.
And so I think for something like the book of Daniel, I think the writer is,
is going to these great lengths to try to say, to try to present this to his audience in such a way that it brings about an ultimate good for them.
Right.
They hold fast to their faith in God and endure, you know, these, these afflictions.
That's his, that's his purpose.
That's his goal.
And so in that sense, yes, I think there's no question about it.
He's, he's writing after these events.
He's, there's not, this isn't a prophecy.
I mean, there's, there is a prophecy obviously in the book that, you know, is wrong in chapter 11.
But, you know, the way that he's setting this out, or they, they're setting this out, I think they know they're, they're presenting a lie.
They're not presenting truthful information.
Do you, and this gets into intent a little bit, but maybe it's a guess.
I know when we've studied, for example, Joseph Smith, Joseph Smith seemed to believe his own stuff.
Cult leaders tend to believe in their own BS.
Literally.
I mean, this is a fact.
Like it's, you would be like, but they made this stuff up, but they're so confident in who they are that they've created, that they begin to believe they
have powers, or they have these capabilities and stuff.
So I just say that to say, do you think that the author really thinks and believes in his prophetic skills by saying that these are, this is what's going to come.
So someone might go, well, he's sophisticated.
He's writing all the resurrections coming soon.
Don't worry.
This is all going to happen, blah, blah, blah, whatever that means in Daniel may not, it probably doesn't mean what it means in the New Testament.
Either way, and that's, I love to study that stuff.
But the point is, do you think this guy actually believes in his own predictions that he's writing?
You see what I mean?
Yeah.
Maybe I do think that, again, given the apocalyptic genre, there's, you can't say to your kids, I want you to be patient because we're there.
You have to say, I need you to be patient because we're almost there.
Right.
So I think that the book is saying, hold fast, be patient, endure because we're almost there.
So if he brought it up to what verse 40 or verse 35, I can't remember which one it is.
And it was like, and then God comes.
Well, they'd be like, Oh, well, that that event is this one.
It just happened.
God's coming.
Where is he?
Right.
There are a couple more things that have to happen.
Just real little things, but just, just, just hold on because there's not much.
Right.
So the Gospels do the same thing.
I think.
Yeah.
I agree.
Some people think they completely were fulfilled and it's like, I think the intention is it's right there.
Yes.
You know, Mark's writing, who knows, 70, 80.
Anyway, we're, we're getting off Daniel, but I think that, that same thing is a good tool to use.
You're right.
Yeah.
So I guess I love that.
I mean, I love learning about this and seeing the failure, but also valuing the content.
Yeah.
So at the end of the day, our original question, you know, can you trust Daniel for historical reasoning?
No.
But for a book of hope.
Yeah.
And looking at an example of how creative we can get in desperate times.
I really like the book.
Yeah.
And I mean, a parallel example might be the book of Ecclesiastes, right?
The book of Kohelet.
Is it written by Solomon?
No, of course not.
But that doesn't mean that the book is now useless because, you know, it seems to be purported to be written by Solomon.
But, you know, it's, it's, it's not, that doesn't mean that we just throw it away.
Good point.
You know, the book, the, the book of Ecclesiastes book Kohelet is so, it's my favorite book in the Hebrew Bible, probably in the entire Bible.
And the reason is because I think one of the primary messages is we don't, we, this is what we get.
Like this is our shot and things aren't always fair, right?
And, and, but when you get the opportunity to live life to the fullest, take it, do it.
Don't do it at other people's expense.
Don't do it, you know, but, but when, when God provides you the opportunity to, to, to enjoy your life, you know, to hold the hand of the woman you love, to wear these, you know, clean garments and to, you know, hold your children, blah, blah, blah.
When, when you get those opportunities, take them because I think there's a, in, in religion, there tends to be this aesthetic, you know, sort of, sort of idea that, well, we need to be suffering now as much as possible.
Because, you know, that somehow bolsters us in the afterlife.
And so we, I mean, I did this, like, you know, we look for ways to suffer for the name of Christ.
And, you know, I think the reality is the message of co-hell it, I think is very often look, life isn't always great.
It's like these, we've got newborn twins upstairs, right?
You're not always going to get the opportunity to sleep.
But when you get it, by God, take it, like, don't sit there and go, you know what, I'm supposed to suffer, you know, and not sleep because I have twins.
No, you, you, you go to sleep, you know, you get that hour and a half, just go.
So I think, I think just because a book is purported to be written by somebody else and it's not, and it may contain historical inaccuracies and whatever, that doesn't decrease its value as a literature.
And as being meaningful, even from something as small as, or, you know, minimal, I don't know, as like a reader response.
You know, utilizing reader response theory and, and what does it say to you?
How does it make you feel?
I think those are very valuable when it comes to ancient literature.
I guess just ending on a note, it takes us back to the intention of the person perceiving these texts.
Like, what is your perception?
And if your perception is starting out with this dogmatic, inerrancy concept, then this is going to hurt.
And it's only going to be like an attack to them.
But you're actually kind of in a reverse apologist saying, no, I'm going to defend its literature.
Yeah.
I'm going to defend what it is and not clown it.
I'm not, you're not like this anti-theist who's out here trying to bash the Bible.
In fact, we go right back to, no, I want to understand the Bible.
And once you understand it, you know, it's time and it's place too.
Yeah.
You know, when something's dated, like, we don't sit here and mock the ancient world for slavery and everything.
Like, we understand that that was how things operated.
We definitely don't want that today.
Yeah.
Common sense would say, that's not my, I don't base my lifestyle off this ancient book.
That's right.
So there's so many little things, but appreciate it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
