Dr. Del C. Allison Jr., I have a question from a friend, Pine Creek Doug.
He's a skeptic online and he has a couple of different questions. We'll just go with one
here for now. What does Dr. Allison think of the verse in Matthew 23, 37 through 39 where Jesus
is reportedly to say, you will not see me until the time comes when you say, blessed is the one
who comes in the name of the Lord. Is this a plot hole in the bodily resurrection story?
Okay, that's a puzzling question and I'm not sure exactly what he's trying to get at. Maybe
he's thinking that Jesus is here thinking about the space between the present and the end,
the parosia, and there's no resurrection between the two. Maybe that's what he's thinking.
But I can tell you what I think about this verse. I actually think it's what I would
call contingent eschatology. I think it's a conditional sentence. So if you look at rabbinic
texts, you will see that there are a slew of them which take the form, the son of David will not
come until and then something happens. And this is a traditional form, whether this form goes back
to the first century. I don't know. I don't know what the genealogy of it is. But Jesus' statement
has exactly the same form. You will not see me. It's a statement about the advent, the messianic
coming with a knot and then it's an until or a less and then it is the condition to be met.
And there is this well-attested tradition in Jewish texts that the end will come when Israel
repents or Israel turns back to God. It's a very rich tradition which grows out of the Old Testament.
It's the way Jews read Deuteronomy 30, for example. Anyway, I think this is the same sort of idea.
So what is being said here? And I don't know. I don't know whether this is an early Christian
formulation or is this something Jesus said is one of those frustrating things I wish I knew,
but I don't really know. But I think it is the same sort of idea that you find in the Talmuds.
And I think it's the same idea you find in Acts 3. You might remember in Acts 3, 19 through 21. I
think it is Peter talks to the people of Jerusalem and he says, turn again that your sins may be
blotted out and that times of refreshing may come and God may send for you the Messiah. It's
repent and then the end will come, which is again a very well-attested idea. And I think
that's what is going on. This is my best guess. What's going on in that passage which is in Matthew
and Luke and if you believe in Q, it goes back to Q. So I'm not sure that I know what it has to do
with the resurrection, but I think that's its function. It's a statement of contingent or
conditional eschatology. Thank you.
