Is the testimonium flavionum partially interpolated or completely interpolated?
We're kind of skipping the whole it wasn't interpolated idea.
Josephus did not think Jesus was the Christ.
But also, what about the James brother of Jesus called the Christ passage in Josephus?
Is there also something to be said of the James brother of the Lord in the New Testament?
Could Dr. Richard Carrier be right about this particular passage?
You know, I teeter-totter back and forth with the arguments because that's what you do when
you're open-minded. You don't shut off the door to the potential evidence leaning in a different
direction. But after this episode, I honestly feel convinced more in the direction that this
gentleman is on the right path in what he's saying. Let me know what you think.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. I'm the host Derek Lambert.
And the question is, is the testimonium flavionum partially interpolated or completely
interpolated? We're all beyond it not being interpolated. At least my audience is. And with
the guest I have today is Ken Olson. Welcome to MythVision. How are you?
I'm good. Glad to be here.
I am as well. So you've written a really interesting article.
Pop our names up on the bottom here as we go along. Tell us what it is you specialize your
background a little bit. Let us know what it is that you're coming on the show today for.
Well, originally my interest was in historical Jesus research. But that's a really,
really broad field. And I tend to specialize in two things that I've actually published on.
One is this, the testimonium flavionum. And the other is the synoptic problem.
Because both of these are deal with sources for the historical Jesus and how many do we
actually have? And are they independent of each other? Right? That's the issue I'm really interested
in. Wow. Well, today we're dealing with specifically the testimonium. Maybe we'll
have you back on to talk about your synoptic problem issue and how you resolve this problem.
Because there's a myriad and here's that word again, a myriad of problems that can come up.
Well, on the synoptic problem you've had Mark Goodacre on and you've had Ian Mills on and we're
of the same school of thought. Right. So the far hypothesis and that's always fun to listen to.
But I don't think I've done one where someone actually focused their specialty on the testimonium.
I've had people mention it. I think Steve Mason thought it was partially interpolated.
I could be mistaken. But you take a full on, this is a Eusebian interpolation.
And we're going to talk about that case today. So where do you want to begin?
Well, do we want to talk about first, who is Josephus? What is this passage? Why is it important?
Okay. Josephus, son of Matthias, was a Jewish historian who wrote, well, he wrote several
books. The one we're talking about is the Antiquities of the Jews. He also wrote an
account of the Jewish war against Rome in seven books. The antiquities is then like all of Jewish
history from the beginning up to the war. And then he has two books of contra apionem against apion,
who was a Gentile who wrote nasty things about Jews. And he responded to it. And then he wrote
an autobiography, the life of Josephus. Okay. And he lived in the first century. And there is one
passage in book 18 of the antiquities. And then another passage, which we'll probably get to in
book 20 of the antiquities, which deal with figures from early Christianity. Well, there's also a
passage about John the Baptist in book 18. Some people would include that as a passage about
Christianity, but it doesn't really talk about Christianity at all. So the Testimonium Flowianum
is this one passage in book 18 of the antiquities, where there's just a paragraph long description
of Jesus. And it says all kinds of things about Jesus, like he was the Messiah, he was the Christ.
That makes people think that this was probably not originally written by Josephus himself.
At least people have thought that since, you know, around 1600, maybe the 1590s. And it was
originally Protestant scholarship, looking at this and saying, wait, there's no way this guy
is a Jew and talks about Moses and so forth. And all of a sudden, in this one paragraph,
he breaks out and all of a sudden, Jesus is the Messiah and he worked miracles and he was foretold
by the prophets and all that. I think that's very unlikely. All right. So that's been,
since 1600, this has been a heavily criticized passage. And there are still people that maintain
complete authenticity or almost complete authenticity with maybe a word changed here and there.
They're in a distinct minority. And then there's people like me who think it's
completely inauthentic, or at least we can't show any of it to be authentic. You know,
how do you prove that, you know, something did not exist in the first century? That's
pretty darn difficult. You know, when we do history, we're not usually trying to show
with certainty this could not have been. And then the majority of scholars today,
and this is since maybe since the Second World War, the majority of scholars have thought that
this is partially interpolated. Josephus wrote something and then a Christian has added to it.
They're not willing to accept that Jesus wrote, I'm sorry, that Josephus wrote,
this one was the Christ. And if I may, just to point out, while we're moving along,
I might interject with something. Is it fair to, maybe I'm paging holding here, but either way,
I want to be obvious and get your opinion on your research, because you've looked into the
scholars who have an opinion on this, and I'm asking you as someone who hasn't,
are most of the people who think this is actually authentic Christians?
Do you find that as a statistic, maybe, that there's like most supports my idea?
But I should say, I, most scholars who are not specifically writing from at least a
conservative Christian point of view would say, oh, it's at least partially an interpolation.
I don't, one of the scholars that that holds it to be almost completely authentic is Alice Wheely,
and I don't know her religious beliefs, but she's not writing as a, you know, a conservative Christian,
right? She thinks I've got this theory, and I'm going to show it. And I hesitate to generalize
about Christians, because one of the problems, when you're talking about the testimonium or
what scholars believe, there's all kinds of Christians, and they believe all kinds of things.
Right, I just ask because it seems more of a conservative position, whether you're a Christian
or not, but I asked this of Mike Lacona, I recently had an apologist guy come on and said,
hey, we're dating these texts, and he goes, well, I know an agnostic who dates Mark to the 40s,
and I went, oh my gosh. So I wanted to ask him like, the people who are dating this stuff early,
I said, aren't they mostly like conservative evangelicals or something?
Well, everybody loves somebody from the other camp who agrees with them, right? And I've seen this with
Tim O'Neill that you've had on the show. Well, he's an atheist, and he says this,
so it must be true, because no atheist could possibly err on the side of Christianity, right?
And if you quote a Christian against these people and say, oh, but this person is a Christian,
well, are they a real Christian, you know, do they, do they believe the fundamentals that I do,
and so forth? So everybody is biased in favor of their own theories, including probably me,
I just don't know what my biases are, I think they're right. So that whole line of argument
with this is, Bart Ehrman frequently comes in for that, like if a conservative Christian wants to
argue for something, even Bart Ehrman admits this is true, is if it is not possible to be more
skeptic about anything. Yeah, and I want to do the reverse role real quick, just to point out,
I wonder if there are any mythosists out there who actually say that this passage is
not a complete forgery. Are there any mythosists out there? And if you're out there, comment down
in the description, I'm letting them know, I'm trying to ask them because you probably don't
know if there are any. Most of the ones I know are going to probably look at what you're doing
today, right? See, and even if this is correct, I'm interested to know, are there any mythosists
who say, sorry, I think it's partially interpolated, I think there's some validity here. No, because
if you grant that there's a Jesus discussion here of somebody at the base,
wouldn't that undermine the entire premise? I don't know, I'd be interested to hear what they
have to say. So anyway, just wanted to give the tip for TAP for both sides of how people
are interacting with this. Right. Okay, so should we go through the language of the passage?
Yeah. Okay, then do you want to put that up on the? Sure. And what translation is this?
I think this is my translation. Okay. All right. So I want to go through this and explain why I
think Eusebius as opposed to someone else wrote this. So first we have about this time arose Jesus.
This is introductory and that beginning Catechronon about this time. You can stick this in
just about anywhere, and it will fit, right? You're not saying it occurred directly as a result
of the thing that happened before it or it happened immediately after. You're just saying
around this time, so you can put this into an existing work just about anywhere you want it.
And just I might pop up and pop off. I don't want to keep it completely covered.
Right. At this point in the Josephus writings, this would work, right? To insert something
like this, Pontius Pilate was just mentioned, like this is the right time, right? Right. So
there's an internal mention of Pilate in the Testimonium Flowerianum and it begins with about
this time. So if you're an interpolator, right, and I'm not, I am undecided whether Eusebius himself
put this into the antiquities or whether Christian scribe read this in one of the three
works that Eusebius wrote, where he quotes it, right? This is the book and he actually quotes
it differently in its three works. This is the version found in the Ecclesiastical history.
There is an earlier version in the Demonstratio Evangelica and a later version that survives
only in the Syriac translation of his Theophany. So no one, no Christian seems to have been aware
of this text before the time of Eusebius and then he quotes it three times in three different works,
all right? And the wording appears to be in agreement with the wording of the Ecclesiastical
history. And I don't know if he oversaw it getting into the text, the manuscripts of the
antiquities himself or if his scribes copying the antiquities thought, hey, my copy of the
antiquities is missing this really important message. I better put it in there, right? And
that is an important thing that separates me from many other scholars is that most of them
are looking at the antiquities and thinking, why did a scribe insert this? Oh, he must have
thought there was a problem with, you know, Josephus not mentioning Jesus at all. And that was the
reason, right? And they did to prove Jesus existed and they put that in. No, I think Eusebius wrote
it for his own reasons having to do with his own work. And it only later got put into the Josephus
antiquities. Okay. All right. So back up. A rose Jesus, a wise man, if indeed one ought to call
him man for he was a maker of miraculous works. All right. So one of the first things people
say, Oh, well, a Christian wouldn't have called Jesus a wise man. And this is one of the things
that people just sort of theorize what would a Christian do is though Christians all thought to
wrote the same things. Well, there is one place where Eusebius refers to Jesus as a wise man.
And secondly, this passage doesn't say he was only a wise man, right? Christians wouldn't say
Jesus was not a wise man. That would be that he's not only a wise man. He is a wise man,
if why not to call him a man, right? For he was a maker of miraculous works. He must have had a
supernatural nature. There must have been something beyond the human about him.
Right. For him to say this and the justification, the first justification is he was a maker of
miraculous works. Well, he made he did miracles. So therefore he must have been beyond an ordinary
human. I do want people to know they can go actually in the description and read the article
that's going to go far more into the into depth on this. And he sourced it quite well. So there's a
lot of sources. You can go back up what he's saying. I just wanted to give that quick plug in the
midst of this, because you're leading to this point of, well, why would even call him a wise man?
And what is Eusebius engaging with in his day? Right. So thanks for reminding me. I do address
this in the paper to which you linked. But Eusebius is writing after a pagan critic of Christianity
called Porphyry. And Porphyry had quoted oracles of Apollo, the god Apollo and the goddess Hecate,
where it said Jesus was a wise man of the Hebrews. But the Christians, who are involved in error,
mistakenly took him to be divine. And Eusebius, this is in the background of his mind. Like he
quotes this in the Demonstratio of Angelica after the Testimonium. The Testimonium is
book three, chapter five. And in chapter six, he gets to Porphyry. All right. And he's dealing with
that in his mind. Was he a wise man, as Porphyry said? Or was he more than that? And it seems like
the Testimonium is directly addressing this question. Was he a wise man or was he more than
that? He was more than that. Okay. And so he says a wise man, if indeed should call him a man. So
he's not saying he's not a wise man. He's saying, well, is it really proper to call him just a man
for he was a maker of Miraculous Works? He was a teacher, he was a maker of Miraculous Works,
a teacher of human beings who received the truth with pleasure. And he won over both many of the
Jews and many of the Gentiles. This one was the Christ. Hmm. Now, almost everybody thinks there's
a problem with this one was the Christ, right? People that think of partial interpolation,
yeah, that's a problem. Alice Wheely, who wants to retain most of the, almost all of the Testimonium,
suggests that we're missing a word here. It said this one was believed to be the Christ.
And that does show up in the textual history of the transmission of the passage, not in our
manuscripts of antiquities, but in people quoting it. That does show up. So she's not just making
that up off the top of her head. Okay. But my point would be, okay, so he says, whoever is writing
the Testimonium says, a wise man, if one ought to call a man, so suggesting that maybe that's not
adequate, maybe calling him a man isn't enough. And he says, for like, there's a, this is a
garcloth. It means because, because he was a maker, maker of Miraculous Works, because
he was a teacher of such men as received the truth with pleasure, because he won over both many of
the Jews and many of the Gentiles. And I should maybe, we'll talk about the translation of that.
And then he says, having given these three things, this one was the Christ, right? These are three
things that are foretold about the Christ in prophecy. I'm going to identify him as the Christ,
having said, well, wise man might not be an adequate term. This one was the Christ,
based on the three reasons he's just given. Okay. So we talked a little bit about a maker of
Miraculous Works would show maybe he was divine. And we have an advantage here, because we actually
know Christians did read it that way. We've got Hermia Sosselman writing a century after Eusebius,
dependent on Eusebius says, look what Jesus said, right? And he thinks this probably means,
I'm going to look what Josephus said, right? He's saying, okay.
Sosselman is, well, that's an interesting question. Is he reading the text of the, of Josephus antiquities?
Probably not. Ancient writers are really lazy. And in most of the cases where we have people
quoting the testimony in Paulianum, they're probably just reading Eusebius and quoting what's there.
They're not looking to Josephus and saying, is this in my copy of Josephus? Let me see it and
quoting it there, right? And in this case, Sosselman is writing a work called The Ecclesiastical
History, right? And in the first book, he says, and he acknowledges that he is dependent on
Eusebius Ecclesiastical History. So our initial presumption would be that's where he's getting
the passage, not actually going to Josephus. Right. All right. So let me see if I can
pull up Sosselman's comments. So what we get in Sosselman writing in the fifth century,
independent on Eusebius Ecclesiastical History, is Josephus, the son of Matthias, also was a priest
and was most distinguished among Jews and Romans, maybe regarded as a noteworthy witness to the
truth concerning Christ. So he accepts the passage, right? For he hesitates to call him a man
since he wrought miraculous works and was a teacher of truthful doctrine, but openly calls him
Christ. So he's sort of the ideal audience for Eusebius, right? He sees, ah, he's more than a man
because he wrought miraculous works and he openly calls him Christ. So what text is he looking at?
He's probably looking at the Ecclesiastical History and he's seeing this one was the Christ rather
than this one was believed to be the Christ for something. He says he openly calls him the Christ.
And then, skipping a little bit, he covers some of the other stuff in the passage. He says,
it appears to me that in narrating these things, he all but proclaims that Christ, by comparison of
works, is God, right? So is he getting the message that Eusebius is trying to transmit? Yes, he is,
right? He's got it. All right. As if struck by the miracle, he ran somehow a middle course,
assailing in no way those who believed in Jesus, but rather agreeing with them. So this is an
interesting thing that ancient Christians could believe about Jews, and particularly Josephus.
Oh yes, I believe the truth. I tell the truth, but I don't actually become a Christian and publicly
admit it and so forth. And this is one of the things that since 1600 scholars have been skeptical
that Jews actually are like that, right? That Jews don't, they don't secretly in their hearts,
you know, know that Jesus is really Christ. Right. All right. So back to the main passage,
like this one was the Christ. That is the one scholars object to, and we can see that in Eusebius,
you know, in the Testimonium Flowianum, right, it's saying, well, sure, maybe he was a wise man,
but that's not enough. He was more than that. He made miraculous works. He taught the truth.
He went over both the Jews and many, and I think that should actually be translated from the Gentiles.
This one is the Christ. This one was the Christ. Okay, a couple tangential issues there.
You occasionally hear arguments about something like paradox under gunpointes. Well, you know,
a Christian wouldn't have used that because paradox could mean he made questionable works,
or he made unusual works. But here we have, you know, Eusebius doesn't have a problem with
using it the 10 other times he uses it. Then we have Solomon. Does he have a problem with
that language? Does he say this sounds skeptical or something? No, he gets it. Then we have the
word pleasure that, well, a Christian wouldn't have used the word pleasure. Well, okay, Christians
and like everybody else, there are good and bad forms of pleasure. And it's true, the word can
have a bad connotation. But usually, when Eusebius uses the word pleasure in a bad way, he'll
attach some form of the word sarks or flesh to it, right? Fleshly pleasures are bad, but there
are other kinds of fleshries that are good, right? And this is, well, you know, receiving the doctrine,
the true doctrines of Christ, that would be the good kind of pleasure. Right, right, right. Yeah.
All right. And just to mention, like, like Josephus doesn't use this language elsewhere
in this manner, in his writings. Okay. Does he use it? Well, of course, you know,
if we go by individual words, I think he uses all the individual words. It's that we never find
him using paradox on ergo and poetase, that three-word combination never occurs elsewhere
in Josephus. And it's about 10 or 11 times. In Eusebius. Right. And the counter argument to that,
that some people have opted is, well, obviously he got it from Josephus and he liked it so much,
he used it 10 times. You falsify an argument like that. If you're willing to go there.
Yeah. How far are you willing to go to say Josephus' vocabulary has absolutely impacted
Eusebius to the point where everything he's writing, in all his writings, he's using that.
Yeah. Okay. And the thing is, people that are used to thinking of this as a Josephan passage,
that seems like an obvious place to go to them. But I think if you're coming at this rush, you
really wonder, like, aren't you going a long way to say this language that Josephus never
uses elsewhere, and Eusebius uses repeatedly? Okay. And Alice Wheely, who's written an entire
paper in 2007, responding to me, says, ah, yes, but there's one place where Josephus,
I'm sorry, where Eusebius includes other people as makers of Miraculous Works. It's not just God
and Jesus. He does use it to describe God and Jesus, but in one place he uses it to describe
prophets as well. Right. And her argument is, so it's not adequate to describe Jesus,
because it can also be used to describe the prophets, because they were makers of Miraculous
Works. I think this is another one of those arguments that really stretches. Okay. Is there
any reason to believe that a Christian writer wouldn't use the same words to describe Jesus'
miracles as the prophetic miracles? I don't think there is. And the other thing is, when you say,
you know, this language isn't adequate to describe Christ, well, firstly,
Eusebius uses it repeatedly to describe Christ. Secondly, he uses it to describe God. How is it
inadequate? And I suppose you could press the issue and say, well, no language is adequate to
describe Christ or God. That is a common thing in Christian theology. And Eusebius says that in
book one of the Euclesiastical History. He says, you know, no account could ever describe, you know,
the fullness of Christ. So, but he's, he's forced to try to do that in human language.
Right. We can look at, we don't know what language he would use to describe
Christ that would be adequate, because there is no adequate language. We can only look at the
language he does use to describe Christ and God. And paradox on Ergon Poytes is that language.
Right, right. I mean, he's using it to describe, yeah.
He must think it's at least appropriate, if not adequate, right? It was the best available language.
Now, Mike, one of the things I was mentioning before we hit record was just this whole Jew
and Gentile thing. That sounds, you know, and I would like you to get into that a little if you
don't mind just getting into the specifics, because I always saw this as a red flag of,
if you will, anachronistic a bit, that the movement has already taken off. Paul's mission's
already full-fledged. You know, the church is now the church. It is, it has hierarchies and,
and, you know, Bishop probably, well, I don't know if it's bishops, but it definitely has already
developed as we see. And the early church would have been Jewish only, it seems, the earliest.
So you occasionally hear that argument made the other way that this must be Josephus who has,
who is, at the time he wrote the antiquities, is now living in Rome and it's, you know, in the
early 90s. So he must be confusing what happened in Judea during the lifetime of Christ with the
situation that he knows in Rome, where there's a Gentile church. And I think this is a bad argument,
because first of all, you're dismissing Josephus as an historian. Does he take things that happened
in Rome and project them back onto the, into the 30s, right? Right. And I think that's not a good
argument. Secondly, it's based on the idea that Christians read, read the, the Bible in a certain
way that, well, modern scholars read, read the Gospels as saying, well, Josephus never, I'm sorry,
the Gospels never present Jesus as winning over Gentile followers, at least not huge, huge numbers.
And the thing is, the way modern historical critical scholars read the Gospels is not the way
the church fathers read, read, read them, you know, they, they frequently did this. And in the paper,
I give a number of examples of this that you see me as clearly thought that, that Jesus won over
a number of Gentile followers during his lifetime. Right. And one of them, just as one example,
the woman with the flow of blood passage, Eusebius makes her a Gentile. Now there's nothing like
that in the gospel. It doesn't, it doesn't identify her as a Gentile, but Eusebius thinks she was a
Gentile. So we frequently find people putting, and particularly Eusebius, moving that Gentile mission
back into the time of, of Jesus in the third. Right. All right. Which raises lots of red flags for me.
Right. And that word Gentile, it's a Hellenic clone in the Greek. Now, both the word Jews and the word
Greek, in ancient languages, there is no way to distinguish between Jew, a person who follows the
religion of Judaism and Judean, a person that lives in Judea. Right. Or a person who is of,
of the Jewish nation living somewhere else. Right. Jew and Judean are the same or ancient
languages don't distinguish between those two things. And interestingly, this word Greek is
pretty much the same way. It doesn't really mean Greek. This form is Hellenicon, but it's from
Hellen, which is the way people used to refer to Greeks. But it's not just a cultural label,
it's a religious label. When you say I'm Hellen, I worship the Greek gods. Right. Okay. And Eusebius
actually expands this category. This is in Demonstratio Evangelica, book one, chapter two,
where he says basically there were two kinds of people. There are Jews who accept the one God
and, and follow these mosaic practices. And then there are Greeks. And he means polytheists,
all of them, not just ones that are ethnically Greek, but all polytheists who worship a number of
gods. He's calling them Greeks in that case. And he asks, where would the Christians fit?
And the interesting thing is he sees the Christians as the heirs of the ancient Hebrews. He thinks
Hebrews and Jews are two different things. It's possible for individual Jews to also be Hebrews
if they understand the spiritual sense of, of scripture. And this is a problem with ancient
Christians like Jews. Well, they keep reading everything literally, whereas actually it's
spiritually meant to foretell Jesus. Right. When you see all this stuff, right, right about
mosaic law, ah, but it has this spiritual sense and Jews are following it literally.
Real quick, who is it that we're talking about who sees Christians as this unique
full filler, if you will, of the Hebrew category? Right. It's Eusebius. It's found in some of the
other church fathers, but I'm particularly talking about Eusebius does this in Demonstratio
Evangelica, book one, chapter two. You can probably find that online if you Google it. Okay.
Okay. So he thinks that that there are these ancient Hebrews and they accepted the one God,
but Moses hadn't lived yet. So they weren't following the mosaic law. So he's talking
about Abraham, the patriarchs, right, or the time of Moses. So the Christian Christianity
is the refoundation of that original religion of the Hebrews, where they worship the one God,
but they don't follow the mosaic law. So he says the Christians are the heirs of the ancient Hebrew
patriarchs. It's not the Jews that are the heirs of the ancient Hebrew patriarchs. Wow. But yeah.
But the interesting thing about that argument, he says, there are, there were two, before Jesus
comes, there were two kinds of people. There were Jews and there were Greeks or Hellenes,
meaning polytheists. And here it's saying Jesus won over many from the Jews and many
from the Gentiles. And then later in the passage, and I'm going to skip ahead here, he says,
the tribe of Christians or the nation of Christians, so-called after him, right,
and still to this day, the tribe of Christians named after him has not failed. Now, what is this
nation of Christians? Well, they're no longer Greeks and they're no longer Jews. There is a new
nation who are named after Christ. They need a new name because they are a new nation. So they're
named after Christ. And what characterizes them? Well, they received the truth taught by Jesus.
That's the definition of Christian. They received the truth as opposed to the people that are still
Jews and still Greeks who didn't receive the truth taught by Jesus. Okay. And he says they have not
failed. Now, there are a few counter arguments I've seen against this one is not failed. Well,
why does he say not failed negatively instead of saying continued positively? And this is actually
what's called negative iteration that we find this frequently in ancient literature and you still
hear it today. Paul says I am a citizen of no small city. I am a citizen of a large city. Right.
And so we find this, the book of Acts has a few examples of this, right? Negative iteration. So
if he says they have not failed, he's saying they were successful. Yeah. And when we actually
find this in Acts five, where the book of Acts in the New Testament, fifth chapter, there's a meeting
of the Sanhedrin, and they're wondering what can we do about this, you know, this group of Christians?
And there should we do anything? And a Pharisee, a leader of the Pharisees named Gamaliel gets up
and he says, leave it alone because it's from God, it will succeed. And if it's not from God,
it will fail. Wink, wink. It's, it's successful. Yeah. And the rest of the book of Acts is about
how it grew, right? Right. So we know this, right? Yeah. And I think that's the same thing in the,
in the part of the testimony. I'm right. Like, it would have failed if it weren't coming from God.
So obviously it is coming from God. Right, right, right. And the other argument I've seen is the
word phylum, tribe or nation is disparaging. Well, there are two arguments. One is it's
disparaging. And one is Christians as a missionary religion, wouldn't have wanted to use this narrow,
particularistic ethnic term. That second argument is easily refuted. You see,
Beas and other Christians frequently refer to Christians as a new race, right? They're a new
kind of people. They're a new nation. And you see, Beas does this.
Alice Wheelie has a particular form of the argument that says the word phylum in you see,
Beas is disparaging. It's, it's a negatively valued word. And she points out there a number of times
where you see, Beas refers to a phylum of demons, right? So demons are bad. And again, I think
this is really trying to rationalize a conclusion. Okay, we have cases where you see Beas uses the
word phylum for women and Wheelie's case is, oh, well, you know, women were frowned upon in the
ancient world. So if phylum and nation of women are a group of women would be bad. And there's no
particular evidence that you see Beas meant to disparage women when he said that. And then there's
a place where you see Beas refers to stars and he refers to their tribes and nations
using phylum in the foreign world. He's not disparaging stars. Right, right. And then she brings
up, well, he wouldn't have used this particular ethnic designation phylum elsewhere. He uses Laos
or genus or genos. And there's the third one, which doesn't really break. So why didn't he use one
of those? And I think this is a bad argument because he only uses those once or twice and
about as often as Phylum. And when we find Laos, you know, that word, well, he also applies that
to demons, right? He's using the same word for Christians as demons. So it's like if I say,
there's a band of robbers. Are they bad because there's a band or because they're made up of
robbers or a band of saints, right? Right, a band of brothers. We think Henry the fifth or the TV
series about the air. Right, right. So I don't think I think that's an invalid argument that Phylum
has this negative value. You've only seen he's used it of negative groups, but then he uses it
neutrally too. We do find him using it of Christians. But we leave case there is, ah, yeah,
but there he has a source, right? He's there's a translation of a Latin source and he's just
repeating what's in it. So that doesn't count as a UCB in use. And this is the kind of argument
she uses regularly. Well, this doesn't count as UCBs when he's particularly writing on his own.
If there's a source, it doesn't count. Now, we don't know about the source from any,
from anywhere other than UCBs. No one else has this. Right. And he may have translated
himself really argues it doesn't. But in any event, he doesn't seem to take exception to this word
Phylum as and then he repeats it and uses it. He doesn't object that it's disparaging or something
like that. Okay. Do you want to put the passage back? Yeah, the second so the second half we're
in the second half of this specific passage. Okay, although on the accusation of the first
men among us pilot condemned him to the cross. Those who adhered at first did not cease.
So the accusation of the principal men among us and pilot condemned him, I'm not going to say
that's fairly straightforward and self explanatory. Okay, I give an unusual translation of the word
Aga Pasantes as adhered. It's usually translated as loved and that's that's a correct translation
those who loved him at first but can also mean adhered or cohereed or something like that.
Now, every time UCBs uses this word in identical form, it's, you know, the participle plural.
It's always describing the attitude that Christians have toward Christianity.
Right. So I translated it as adhered and scholars have also jumped on this did not cease.
What did they not cease from the text doesn't actually tell us and this is pretty unusual
whether Josephus wrote it with or UCBs wrote it. It's kind of strange that did not cease what
and most people assume it's if they translate Aga Pasantes as loved those who loved him at
first did not cease well they didn't cease to love him and that's not a bad translation but
I'm going to go with a translation from the early 20th century from Richard
La Cour who he accepted the authenticity of the passage but he's looking at this
what did they not cease what were they doing and he thinks they didn't they didn't cease
accepting the truth that had been taught by Jesus earlier in the passage. He thinks that's
the thing that they're continuing with they didn't cease that and I think he's probably right about
that okay why is this important well who thinks that Christians are people that accept the truth
is that a Jewish idea is that a pagan idea no that would be Christians that's a Christian idea
right we're starting with an assumption of this is the truth and that right right right there
will be and you'll you'll see this even among like modern Christians I'm not not all of them right
but there's a certain stripe of Christians if you don't accept Christianity they go through
Romans 1 18 through 25 ah it's because you're suppressing the truth and unrighteousness right
right you actually know this but you're suppressing the truth and unrighteousness
but this idea that the things taught by Christ are the truth and that's what defines this group
of people I think only a Christian could write that and the pushbacks on that for the use of
truth earlier in the passage John Myers as suggested they're you know he means they're gullible
right people who accept receive the truth with pleasure but it doesn't say they're accepting
everything with pleasure it says they're accepting the true things with pleasure yeah if he said
false things with pleasure then we'd have a case easily showing yeah that's true but and in her
earlier writings Alice Wheely conjecturally amended the text here well maybe originally it
didn't say truth it said it's they they accepted unusual customs with pleasure and she's dropped
that in his in her later writings because her high ground is I'm going to explain the text as it
text as it is without rewriting it and if she wants you know starts rewriting the text but she's
lost the high ground on that one right once you once you start rewriting oh well of course
you know uh Josephus couldn't have said that but I can rewrite it into something I believe that
Josephus could have written right that sets the bar pretty low right we could we could have anybody
could do that I don't think you know Josephus wrote this but I can rewrite the text into something
that I do that I can't accept he would believe and there are a lot of people that want to do that
but what is the justification for doing that the justification is well I'm sure he wrote something
and it couldn't have been this so it must have been something else well how do you know he wrote
something in the first place that's the thing I want to see okay got it the the text we've got is
clearly not written by Josephus what's the evidence that underlying it there is some original text
all right and the other pushback I've seen on that is well maybe Josephus didn't really know very well
what truth what Jesus taught and he thought it was just basic Jewish teaching so he calls it the truth
I again you know can you show an argument like that is impossible no right it's it's possible
but he seems to have defined the author of the testimonium flower on him seems to have defined
Christians as the group that has accepted the truth taught by Jesus and that seems like something
that only a Christian would say right and that makes sense to me okay um now the other thing
I think the only thing remaining in the passage that I would have to explain is uh you appear to
them on the third day on the day living again as the divine prophets that spoke in these and
myriads of other wonders about him myriads yeah myriads is a very common ucb in words the kai ala
myria in this case those three words together I think there are six uses in and ucbs and none in
Josephus and that's documented in the paper if you want to look up the citations but what is he
saying well you know they saw that Jesus had been crucified why didn't they abandon him right
he's this is a ucbian argument that he takes over actually from origin is ucbus is not actually
a great original thinker most of his ideas came from origin but it's why wouldn't the disciples
have abandoned Jesus once they saw that he ended up crucified well again we have a gar clause which
implies causality they didn't abandon him because he appeared to them alive again so they didn't
just hear the truth that he talked they proved the doc this proved the doctrine of the resurrection
too right they knew right they knew this was true why are they willing to go out and face martyrdom
they knew the resurrection was a fact I just think it's a huge red flag too that he mentions like
as the prophets spoke about yeah I mean you're talking to a Jew who's writing his histories
who would have not accepted his prophets to speak about Jesus to be fair there are people
like Alice Weely that want to retain that as authentic okay I'm just saying like would he
have applied that to Jesus like right you know what I mean the vast majority of scholars would take
that out like if indeed one should call him a man uh he was the Christ and then this whole thing
about the resurrection as told before told by the prophets the majority of scholars like John Meyer
like Steve Mason they're saying no he didn't write that I admit that but the thing is it's so closely
tied to the rest of the text he would he that's the reason that they didn't abandon him that's the
reason the tribe of Christians hasn't failed right it's a causal connection there I don't think you
can just take it out and the other thing that I think is the prophets had been told these
and myriads of other things what are these is it just that he would be crucified and arise again
or is it the entire earlier part of the testimony and he was a maker of miraculous works
he was a teacher of the truth you know he would win over many of the Jews and many of the Gentiles
and all those things are things that you see be specifically says these are foretold about the
Christ in prophecy right so not only are those things you know contributory to seeing him not
just a man but the Christ that's also part of what was foretold about him in prophecy
according to UCBs all right yeah that's okay so that's a prima facie case right it looks like a
UCB in work all right so what else should I talk about okay yeah no sorry I didn't want to interrupt
you so yes I think it looks like it you've got a good case to say you know why and it really does
pique my interest you know I've heard people say this before specifically mythicists really
enjoy going to this particular point because they it takes away from the idea that this is actually
accounting for the historical Jesus so before we move on just to get your thoughts on the James
passage because that connects to this idea of is the New Testament James this James and is this
Jesus that we're talking about here or is this a different guy named Jesus what's going on here
just to speak on Dave Allen because Dave Allen's a good friend of mine on on Facebook who's written
on this and he's doing a rewrite it seems you already addressed this whole rewrite problem of like
but have you like any specifics you would like to engage in that particular field
okay first let me address the general concept of mythicists and they like to agree with me yes
if you look at the literature in any issue at least in New Testament probably all academic issues
what do people do when they when they have an idea they look for you know is there in a scholar
and authority that agrees with them do they really understand what that person argued
or are they just repeating those arguments because it agrees with the position they want to hold
right so I've frequently gone online and seen you know mythicists quoting me and you know it's like
well that wasn't quite what I was saying or so forth and this happens a lot even among scholars
most of the people most on all issues in the New Testament there are a handful of people who have
seriously looked at the language and then there are a bunch of people that have seen I like this
guy's argument on this or I like that person's argument on this and with me the pushback will be
James Carle appear well but James Carleton page it or Alice Whealy disagree right and frequently
they don't actually produce the argument they just say James Carleton page it Alice Whealy
disagree but Ken Olson has argued right and you're not going to get to the truth that way just
exchanging the name of scholars that took the position this is my position and this group of
scholars agrees with my position or this group of scholars doesn't okay so that was that was the
first thing um what was what remind me what it was uh Dave Allen Dave Allen has done a rewrite
of what he thinks the original would have said and I know that you I think you have you engaged I
think you've engaged with him he wrote two papers I engaged with the second one I asked him to send
me the first one and he said well the first one isn't really terribly good um just to engage with
the second one and I've done that and what I've noticed is he's all of his arguments for originality
are appeals to the authority of Alice Whealy and he does do a recap of our arguments but he says
but Olson who said this bought Alice Whealy has said that so he uses the argument for paradoxa
and ergon poetase and says as Alice Whealy says it's inadequate right so we've already addressed
that argument he's I don't think he's actually adding anything new right he's he's mostly repeating
arguments that Alice Whealy has used before like paradoxa ergon poetase like with the word phylon
tribe is inherently negative stuff like that so I don't think there's anything new there
and then he says well this would show that at least there's an original there and then he goes on
to speculate on what the original might have been like but I'm not convinced by his arguments for
they're being an original in the first place okay one more question before we leave the
testimonium forever and ever now I'm just kidding uh is your work this specific work that you've
done here Lewis Field or Feldman who's like a leading Josephus scholar from what I understand
like the world's most well known on this particular issue you changed his mind it's what I was told
right so he died in 2017 okay but in 2012 he reexamined the issue uh based on mostly based on
something that I wrote okay I actually have two papers on this one from 1999 and he had only seen
the earlier paper and another from 2013 right the one that you've linked to is the 2013 one but he
was convinced by the 99 paper which has its virtues but also I wouldn't put it that way now right I
rewrote it because I thought in that one I was mostly just addressing the stuff that people
call the additions and explaining why I don't think these are additions I think they're original
rather than looking at the entire text and trying to explain it so I changed my approach of let's
look at the entire text and see you know how you see these would have done that and so the critics
of my position most notably pageant and Alice Wheely they're responding to the 1999 page 1999
paper so far I haven't seen any scholar Republic responding in print to the 2013 paper
haven't seen that so when people like Dave Allen or Tim O'Neill are quoting their criticisms
they're to the earlier paper got it okay um what else did you ask about that I think I didn't
miss Lewis Feldman did you have any correspondence or did he come out and say hey this I'm convinced
it's a full-on interpolation from Eusebius so he advances that sort of tentatively and I read
him and saying I think it's a full-on interpretation and when I saw his 2012 paper I wrote and asked
him am I correct and interpreting you this way and he didn't get back to me I mean and I think he
was already you know an old man I don't know if he did email or or what he never got back to me about
that but as I understand it he was saying that okay but then he died in 2017 and I know I watched
the video where you uh interviewed Tim O'Neill on this he said well you know he was an old guy in
2012 so he probably you know he was he was starting to lose it that's why he agreed all right
disparaging to Lewis Feldman first of all um and I think Feldman agreed with me based on
things I'd said in the earlier paper but I think my restatement in 2013 is much stronger you know
either than what I read earlier or what Feldman wrote in in 2012 and I looked at Tim O'Neill's
linked web page to your interview with him and he starts by saying you know the issue is moot
right the issue of language is moot it could be this but it could be that
right that he acknowledges I could you know could possibly be right but there are these other things
like Wheely saying the language is inadequate and so forth and I think this is weak um he's not
saying I have the better argument now he's saying it's moot it it could be that that uh
UCBS has just borrowed language from Josephus that he doesn't use elsewhere repeatedly and used it in
his own work and okay yeah that's possible but are you saying that's an equally plausible argument
is what I'm saying and I don't think it is okay I think you've removed the you've removed your your
theory from uh the possibility of falsification if you do that right like how would you you someone
ever show that your theory was wrong if you're going to do that and the other thing I've noticed
about Tim O'Neill uh in that and other people do this is the vast majority of scholars think it's
partial thinks the testimonium is partially interpolated when were they writing and did
they know about these linguistic parallels in UCBS right if they didn't know that why does their
opinion matter right so you can come up with a big list of scholars that have published saying I
think it's partially interpolated one of the ones Tim O'Neill included in his list is Robert Van
Forst who gives their six reasons and he gives six linguistic reasons why it would be authentic
he said first of all a christian wouldn't have called him wise man well actually he does a christian
wouldn't have wouldn't have used paradox and ergon poetes UCBS does it repeatedly so he's
got these six reasons and the sixth one is the tribe of christians bet you know this concluding
thing of the tribe of christians named after him and in this case van vorst says he knows that UCBS
says that he says this is the exception that proves the rule okay oh wow yeah he says that he says
but this is the exception that proves it all of course it's occasionally going to happen now the
thing is you look at his six arguments they are all mistaken with regard to UCBS he knows phylon
you know the word phylon UCBS uses that but he doesn't realize the other five don't apply to
UCBS either so if you have a scholar that said gives six arguments and you know they're wrong
what weight does that carry when you include that person in the list of the consensus scholars
the majority believe this but if they've used arguments that are wrong does that matter that
they're the majority has anyone actually knowing your work now your current stance from 2013 ever
communicated with you or try to come at this and say listen uh engage with where you're at now
so there are two people uh uh one is Daniel Schwarz who's at teaching at Hebrew University
he's an American now living in Israel teaching at Hebrew University and he is writing the uh
in the Brill series the commentary on these books of the antiquities and we've exchanged emails a few
times not particularly on the overall paying event authenticity but chasing down footnotes or
stuff like that like did somebody say this in 1890 I can't find that you know that time yeah yeah
right um and then the other is Steve Mason okay now Steve Mason is with the death of
Louis Feldman and Heinz Schreckenberg in 2017 I think you'd have to say Steve Mason is arguably the
leading scholar of Josephus uh I no disrespect to Daniel Schwarz who was you know uh quite good um
and he's read my work but he's more persuaded by Wheely in general okay and he says it sounds
like a Josephan text to me with the exception of these red flag passages right he says it sounds
like something Josephus could have said he's a he's a Josephan scholar and so there are these
problems with it and I'm gratified that in some cases he has agreed with me against Dallas Wheely
but I think what's going on here is why do people investigate issues it's because they have doubts
right I you know I have a doubt about this so I'm going to investigate when do you stop
investigating the issue it's when your doubts have been removed okay so Steve Mason is looking
at this and seeing you know as a Josephan scholar he's like it sounds like something
sort of Josephan to me and he's an expert on Josephus there's I'm not denying yeah okay and
he says so there are some problems in maybe the language but he's used to thinking of it as a Josephan
text and I don't think he's an expert on Eusebius or what Eusebius is doing in the ecclesiastical
history so I think my job is I have to increase his doubts so that he actually looks at that right
look at you know book one chapter two of The Demons Gaudy with Angelica look at this
because I think anybody who really looks at does this fit Eusebius is going to see that it does
wow so you would grant him kind of the um look you just I don't think he's looked at all of this
and so he's kind of put on the Josephus glasses only rather than saying let's let's see since we
already see problems here let's see if this word putting on the Eusebius glasses it just makes
better sense right there's a lot of stuff he looks at it says I never had a problem with that part of
the text right and I think well you should have a problem also with that part of the text and look
at that okay well you know people don't change their mind easily when I've published my first
paper in 99 I thought everyone will be persuaded by that because I was young and foolish that doesn't
happen in scholarship there aren't these stuff and see changes where you publish one paper
and everybody says hey we were all wrong and changes their minds about everything they some
people double down right a lot of people double down yeah wow nobody likes the new guy on the
block bringing in something that they haven't looked at oh man okay um let's talk about James
if you don't mind I know it won't take too long but just tell us what's going on here
so first of all the James passage keeps me up at night okay I'm pretty sure I've got the testimonium
flowing on him Eusebius at least thoroughly rewrote the passage I can't prove there was no
underlying passage but I don't see any evidence for it I think I've got that one my confidence is up
here okay James I think the part about uh the brother of Jesus who is called the messiah is
probably interpolated but I'm certainly I don't have the degree of confidence about that that I do
about the testimonium okay all right so starting with the weaker arguments one of the things people
say is well the testimonium it's obviously overblown right anybody looking at that any modern person
like Christians before 1600 were apparently not worried about this but like modern people
looking at this did I lose you you're not moving no no no I'm here um modern people
looking at will see there are problems with the statements if indeed one should call him a man
he was the messiah you know he appeared to them alive again after his death on the third day
it's the prophets were told people look at that and that sends up a red flag but this passage about
James doesn't send up a red flag in the same way right um obviously I mean he's not called God he
doesn't look like he's God he's not a miracle worker he's just called right he's called the Christ
right so the first thing is you know why would somebody interpolate that right well what would
be the point and I think in this case the point is just to identify the James that was in that passage
as the Christian James right and so it doesn't send up any red flags but uh there's a book by
Sabrina in of Lockie uh UCB about UCB is citation practices when he's citing
Jewish authors and she doesn't agree with me on the testimony in flowery Adam she thinks UCB has
made lots of little changes but he wouldn't have done something big and glaring like the
testimony in flowery Adam but when we look at the little changes that is exactly what the James
passage would be it would be a minor change to identify somebody and in one places she looks
at the Demonstrate on the evangelical and she looks at UCB's quotation I think it's Josephus but
don't quote me on that um where somebody refers to the Hasmoneans right and when you see these
quotes the passage he says the one's called the Maccabees he's thinking his Christian writers
might his Christian readers might not know what the Hasmoneans are so when he quotes it he glosses
it with the ones called the Maccabees so that his Christian readers will know that these are the
same people that they've heard about called the Maccabees even the Hasmoneans so I'm thinking
if the James passage is interpolated it wasn't for some great Christological point or anything
it's just you somebody wanted you to know this person that was put to death is that other guy
called James the brother of Jesus that you that you Christian readers would know from elsewhere
got you so oh this creates a lot of problems doesn't it this creates a lot of problems but
let me go through that isn't a reason to doubt I'm just spitting out a possibility there okay
the other thing is he says called the Christ Legomonos Christos now people often translate
it as so called or alleged because that adds an element to skepticism Josephus does not use the
word legomonos he just means the person is called that right right it never means the person is
called that allegedly or something like that so it's a poor translation to render it in English
it's the so-called Christ that's though he's putting it into question he's not he's just saying Jesus
who is called Christ so point number two who is he writing for because Jesus was not called
Christ among non-Christian Jews right at least part of his audience is going to say he's not
called the Messiah we don't call him the Messiah what are you talking about so if the passage is
authentic he would have to be have his Greco-Roman audience in mind this is the one you may have
heard of called the Christ the Jesus who you possibly heard of called the Christ it couldn't be
you know I don't mean he's the one the Jews called the Messiah because they don't right
Christian Jewish Christians do but but the vast majority of Jews just don't call them right okay
I'm a little skeptical for that reason but then there's the big reason and you know again before
the second world war it was very common for scholars to be skeptical about this about the
James passage all of our work on Josephus depends on the critical edition published by Benedict
Nesa Nesa and he's he was skeptical about it the guy who wrote the critical edition that everybody
uses was skeptical about it Emile shore in his history of the Jewish people in the time of Jesus
Christ he didn't believe it uh Albert Schweitzer in in his uh you know the quest for the historical
Jesus he says he doesn't say I don't believe it but he says yeah it's fishy I can't tell right
he's right kind of neutral on it but the reason that that shore Emile shore was skeptical about it
was because of origin origin who does not know the testimony in Flowey Adam does quote a passage
about James where he calls him you know the brother of Jesus who was called the Messiah and he says
you know the Josephus says this right but then he has stuff that's just not in our copies
of Josephus he says you know that the that the Jews called him James the just who was called that
from birth because of his overwhelming righteousness and I don't have the text in front of me so I'm
going to wing this yeah he was he was uh every day he was in the temple on his knees which became
as hard as that but as a camel begging for the people's forgiveness right and he's called he was
called the righteous from from his birth and uh that Josephus says the temple was destroyed
because of James because the Jews had killed James who was so righteous and when we read this
we're like that's not in our copies of Josephus what is origin looking at and the argument is well
okay so he got the wording James the brother of Jesus who is called Christ from Josephus
and then he just over interpreted it or he read Clement of Alexandria or Haggisipus who did say
who do have this story about the temple being destroyed because of the death of James
and he confused the the story in Josephus with these stories in Haggisipus or in
Clement now my problem with this argument is so if what he actually has in mind is the
story in Haggisipus or Clement why do we need to suggest he's actually got the
the Josephus antiquities in mind oh does he say he had Josephus in mind he mentioned Josephus
antiquities but then he quotes the the story that doesn't appear in Josephus the only resemblance is
the brother you know that a guy named James the brother of Jesus who was called Christ
it gets stoned in in the Haggisipan version and the Clement version which
origin attributes to to Josephus he's he's addressing the Jews from the top of the temple
and is thrown down from the temple and then he's stoned to death and so what people who
championing authenticity argue is well you know he he read this in in Josephus antiquities the
brother of Jesus who is called Christ and then he added elements from these other stories because
he was confused or he just thought those were good stories right let's let's include that
but then we have the problem okay so if it's inauthentic how would that happen well again I
think it's Eusebius so he quotes the origins version of the passage about him being thrown down to
the temple and he says Josephus says this no manuscript of Josephus has it origin says it
was there and then Eusebius says it's in Josephus now here I agree with the majority of scholars
who think Eusebius doesn't really have a manuscript of Josephus that has that he just accepts origin
said this so it's probably right right he he he doesn't have a manuscript and then beneath that
he quotes the actual passage that we have about James the brother of Jesus the one that we know of
and he says this is in Josephus and this time he tells what book it's in he says it's in book 20
whereas the earlier passage he got from origin he doesn't say what book it's in he just says
it's what Josephus said and it's like well I'm reading this in origin I can't find it in my copy
of of the antiquities but origin must be he must know what he's talking about so I'm going to quote
it and say Josephus said it because origin told me that Josephus had said this so then he quotes the
passage that we have with uh the brother of Jesus who is called the Messiah and my problem with this
is how did Eusebius identify the passage is he looking through his his manuscripts and saying
what is origin talking about I think he may have found a passage about this guy getting executed
and he thought that's got to be the Christian James so he's used the identifier that origin used
the brother of Jesus who is called Christ and he's that's the way he quotes it in the Ecclesiastical
history and again as with the testimonium Paulianum scribes copying this oh my copy of you see
my copy of Josephus antiquities must be wrong I'm going to copy it down the way
the way Eusebius says it should read all right so that is what I think probably happened
am I sure about it no this one keeps me up let me throw a few things actually see what your
thoughts are so when I read your paper on the testimonium uh Eusebius was quick to put words
in the mouth of others and I wonder if and this is speculation uh James is going to be far more
speculation than what you were producing when it came to the testimonium in my opinion but
um is it possible that Eusebius is actually inserting in the mouth of origin this idea
that he said it's in Josephus has he inserted it into origin well first of all that we'd again
have a scribal problem because we do have the text of origins contra calcium and his commentary on
Matthew where he quotes this and says this is in Josephus okay okay we'd have to think okay is
Eusebius rewriting origin saying this got it okay so technically the the the James brother of Jesus
called the Christ just so I get right origin is seeing that but origin is saying that he is
seeing that in Josephus that part are you saying that part was there originally I am saying there
was a man and possibly his name was James who was put to death by the Sanhedrin okay who by stoning
and technically the passage doesn't say he was put to death only that he was
charged with a capital crime that would result in that we're assuming that it was it actually
happened right right okay so I'm thinking there was a passage about someone whose name might have
been James who got stoned to death and that Eusebius sees this and he thinks that must be the passage
that origin was was talking about this is the Christian James and he's then lost the passage
with the identifier that origin used when he was quoting something or paraphrasing something that
just wasn't in Josephus at all so technically this he was called the Christ part was added
was added as an identifier so that Christians reading this would understand who this James
was got it if we read the passage as it stands because it's because we read it as being James
the brother of Jesus people assume that oh well he was innocent and Ananas the High Priest who
brought it up on these charges was persecuting Jesus relatives and all that but if you don't look
at it with the you know the brother of Jesus who's called Christ there's no hint in Josephus that
this guy that was put to death was not guilty and did not deserve this right right that's something
that Christians coming to well it must have been that they were persecuting Christians but
that isn't what the text of the antiquities said and I'm thinking again you know Eusebius is reading
this and well there's this guy that's put to death that there isn't any other passage that he could
have identified with the person described by origin so just to get into some more detail here did
origin when origin says uh James the brother of Jesus who's called the the Christ right
origin saying that but in your estimation here origin's not seeing that in Josephus he's saying
with his clarifiers like this is the one who's called the Christ his brother like this is the
James I'm saying yeah origin came up with that and my support for that would be we find Christians
saying brothers of the Lord and so forth right Jesus had siblings but that were that usage
brother of Jesus you know with Jesus and the genitive that first shows up in origin okay you
know do a TLG search and that it shows up in his commentary on Matthew and in his commentary on John
he says brothers of Jesus that first shows up in origin so linguistically I think there's at least
some basis for saying that's that's an identifier that origin would have come up with on his own
okay now we're backing up to something even further into the New Testament before I let you go
this is James the brother of the Lord and the the first question I have it's obvious that there's
James the brother of Jesus even people today will title of books isamans book you know James the
brother of Jesus and you know um but it says brother of the Lord and you know the Methodist
arguments you know I'm sure you've heard Richard Carrier's argument on this uh Dr. Price has a
different one which is kind of a different interesting take um where he thinks that James is
a brother in the Lord also a baptized Christian but his designation or his authority is that he's
over the missionary activities so technically he's this unique type of Christian in a special status
if you will um but everyone else just kind of reads this and goes look the first voice that we have
that says this guy James is Jesus his brother is when we're looking in the Gospels he has a brother
whose names name James a sibling how do you understand this I suspect you're a historian
a historicist you're someone who thinks Jesus existed right how do you interpret this James the
brother of the Lord to clarify that generally when speaking with New Testament scholars you don't
identify yourself as a historicist it's you know what kind of debate I'm involving when I talk to
Methodists I say I usually describe myself as an historical minimalist I think I'm very skeptical
about the contents of the Gospels I'm less skeptical about Paul right the seven generally
accepted letters of Paul I'm not particularly skeptical about I'm pretty skeptical about
but I'd say I'm an historical minimalist but here I think the Methodists I haven't read Robert
Price I think Richard Carrier has a case and I kind of came up with this independently of him
I think he's that it is that it's possible that it does it that the usage brother of the Lord
is not the same thing as sibling male sibling of Jesus right he doesn't say brother of Jesus the
two we have two usages in Galatians 1 19 and in 1 Corinthians 9 5 where he says you know brother of
the Lord or brothers of the Lord and Richard Carrier and I don't know him I think when he
when he published a pad paper about the about the James passage I did send him an email before
his public take and you send me a free publication copy of this but I'm not in his camp that's the
extent of my conversations with Richard Carrier but what I wonder about here is is is he right
about the usage of brothers meaning something that's not a brother in the sense of everyone in
the church is a brother okay but something that it's there's a a more particular category of
brother meaning people who aren't quite apostles but our brothers of the Lord right because both
times that we see this usage of brother of the Lord it appears to be as distinct from the apostles
we have a mention of the apostles and then we have a mention of the brothers of the Lord
so the first time is when he says uh Paul is in Galatians 1 19 and he says you know he didn't he
didn't get his message he didn't get his gospel from the Jerusalem church he got it right a revelation
of God and he says he visited Jerusalem but he didn't meet any other apostles except for Peter
except for Cephas or Peter I did not see any other apostles besides Peter but I did see James the
brother of the Lord so there are two ways to read this and if you read commentaries commentators are
split on this does he mean I didn't see any other apostles except for James the brother of the Lord
I didn't see any other apostles but I did see James the brother of the Lord
does he mean to exclude the possible does he mean to at least put in question whether James
really ought to be called an apostle and that he calls Peter an apostle is in no doubt in the later
section in the second chapter of Galatians he says you know God made him an apostle to the
circumcision as he made me an apostle but he doesn't say James is an apostle Peter definitely is Paul
thinks of himself as an apostle but he doesn't say James and even some fairly conservative scholars
like James Dunn thinking Galatians 1 19 Paul means to put in question whether James is really an
apostle in the way that Peter and Paul are okay so is there a category of brothers of the Lord
that aren't quite apostles but are engaged in church business all right so that's where we
get to 1 9 5 1 Corinthians 1 9 5 the other passage that mentioned brother of the Lord Paul is going
over all the rights he has an apostle as an apostle and this is we find this in Galatians and throughout
the epistles people that preach the gospel can make their living from the gospel right
right you ought to they don't use the word tithing but you ought to provide hospitality you
you house them and you feed them while they're with you right this is this is a requirement
that people that preach the gospel can make their living from it and Paul's uh when he brings us up
in 1 Corinthians it's in between chapters 8 and 10 we've got chapter 9 in 8 and 10 he's talking about
whether it's okay to meet to eat meat that's been sacrificed to idols right and his point is yes
you can do it it's just meat but you shouldn't do it because it might cause other Christians to
stumble in their faith right if they see you eating meat that's been sacrificed to idols they'll
think participating in pagan worship is okay and that'd be terrible right that that's not exactly
right so what he's doing in 1 Corinthians 9 where he goes over his rights as an apostle he said
yeah sure you have the right to eat meat but just because this is going to sound right
just because you have the right to do it doesn't mean it's the right thing to do
right just because you could eat meat you shouldn't do it because it might cause your
fellow christian to stumble in their faith so and he brings up these rights he has an
apostle as an apostle because says I have all these rights I could have exerted on you and I
didn't use them why didn't I use them because you might have stumbled in your faith if I did
I could have made you you know feed and house me and all this kind of stuff but I gave up these
rights that I had so that fellow Christians would not stumble in their faith that's the argument he's
making so in 1 Corinthians 9 5 he's he's been listing all these rights he has as an apostle
he says do we not have the right and I'm giving the new revised standard version do we not have
the right to be accompanied by a believing wife as do other apostles and the brothers of the lord
and seafus seafus peter um and this is glossed because believing wife it actually said the word
is sister right do we not have the right to be accompanied by a sister as wife
and I know you had in milzon and when he went over the passage he went you know of course brothers
there is the fictive kinship relation all all all christians are brothers or sisters the right
the plural brothers would include women as well right when you had a mixed group of men and women
you use the masculine plural okay so he says I have the right to be accompanied by a by a sister
as wife as do the other apostles and brothers of the lord what does he mean he has the right to
be accompanied by a wife is it just the right to be married no of course it isn't right and
people get married you don't right it's not specific right what he means is if I was traveling
with my wife on my missionary activity you would be responsible for I could claim the right that
you have to house and feed her not just me okay um and he's saying this is also the right that the
other apostles have and the brothers of the lord and seafus so I want to back up here and say what
what are brothers there's a conservative angelical scholar of all things named uh E. Earl Ellis who
wrote a paper called uh Paul's co-workers so there's he published the paper and then it's in
the dictionary of paul's letters he has an article there on paul's co-workers and he thinks besides
the generic term brother there's also a specific sense paul uses for people that are engaged in
church work that are brothers all right uh in romans in chapter 16 where he introduces phoebe
who we assume is the woman that carried the blood the epistle to the romans he says I will I commend
to you phoebe a deacon s deacon of the church of kankria and I'm gonna have to pull that up here
while I'm talking about it okay roman 16 one I commend to you our sister phoebe a deacon of
the church at kankria so that you may welcome her in the lord as is fitting for the saints and help
her in whatever she may require from you for she has been a benefactor of many and of myself as well
so what's he saying you should do for phoebe I think what he's saying is she can claim hospitality
from you right give her a place to stay feed and clothe her and when she leaves maybe give her some
food and possibly you know a little bit of money to send her on her way why because she's engaged in
in church service she's engaged in the service of the church this is the reason that you should
do this for her sister phoebe can claim this she's you know she's coming to you bringing you my letter
as a service to the church okay and in return for this you should
feed in hauser
so then I'm going to jump to 1st Corinthians 16 where paul is talking about timothy okay so paul
has these assistants that he doesn't think are quite apostles like timothy he's our brother timothy
right right this group of brothers what does he say about timothy air uh 1st Corinthians 1610 if
timothy comes see that he has nothing to fear among you for he is doing the work of the lord
just as I am therefore let no one despise him send him on his way in peace so that he may come to
me for I am expecting him with the brothers now again we're getting this language of brothers
all right and as far as I know when we get that word in paul it is always the fictive kingship
relation there is no place other than these the ones we're talking about the brothers of the lord
where it actually means male sibling it's always in the christian sense of male sibling and ian addressed
that he said yes but when he says with this genitive of the lord that's different from when
he's he's talking about and so I'm going to try to answer that argument okay if timothy comes see
that he has nothing to fear among you for he's doing the work of the lord so what do we suppose the
work of the lord is I'm pushing the gospel right I mean obviously it could be some kind of other
church business but he's on he's in service of the church right this is the work of the lord
no one thinks work of the lord is carpentry right when you read paul you don't think ah work of
lord Jesus was a carpenter you know or tent making as paul did what what if we substituted uh
you know jesus there remember he's doing the work of jesus people might say ah i must be
in carpentry no it's right he's preaching the gospel right he's in the service of the gospel
see that he has nothing to fear from you let no one despise him is here are they afraid that he's
going there to timothy he's actually going to be attacked send him on his way in peace no I think
he's just saying again he's you should house and feed him and when he leaves you know give him
send him on his way with some food and maybe some money to help him on his journey because he's
preaching the gospel right so there's a there's a sister Phoebe and there's a brother timothy and
there are other brothers who are engaged in church business and they're allowed to claim hospitality
from the churches while they're doing this because they're engaged in the work of the lord and that
too curious the same that is the same language as in brothers of the lord so I'm going to say
maybe brothers of the lord means brothers in the service of the lord and it's brothers doing the
work of the lord or brothers engaged in church business and they get to claim hospitality
you can also find this in the johanine epistles like the author tells about how you treated the
brothers well right saved them properly so there are these people called brothers that get to check
that claim hospitality from the churches you're responsible to you know feed and drink them because
you know house them and give them food and drink because they're engaged in in gospel service
they're they're they're definitely a group of brothers that are called that
that are called brothers now what about the brothers of the lord is that what paul means
brothers in the service of the lord or brothers doing the work of the lord going back to first
Corinthians nine five do we not have the right to be accompanied by a sister as whites right a
christian wife that comes around with us and you'd have to feed in hauser as do the other apostles
and the brothers of the lord and seafus so who has this right well seafus right we don't know if he
traveled at least as far as anti-ock right and when when he travels he can he can claim these
rights of an apostle and the other apostles can claim these and then the brothers of the lord can
claim hospitality why is it because they're jesus siblings oh no i mean no that's not necessary
presumably because they're preaching the gospel now there's a paper by william farmer in which he
discusses this passage he says this is really valuable because if i worked for this passage
we'd have no idea that the brothers of the lord weren't his brothers right jesus brothers like
do we find this anywhere is it in the new testament or anywhere in early christian literature that
jesus male siblings were engaged in preaching the gospel at least outside of judia right we don't
right this is it this is really valuable because this is the only source okay so my question is
if we have there are people that have the right to be accompanied by their wife that you have to
support and they include the apostles and they include seafus what about people like timothy
and like febe who are called brothers and sisters do they have this right
well yeah i think they do right so i think the people that can claim this right of hospitality
on behalf of themselves and of their spouses might in fact be brothers engaged in the work of the lord
can claim hospitality all right am i sure about this no okay yeah not not as sure as i am about
the testimony and flowering on him certainly but i think that the myth is the myth is this argument
here that that does not mean brothers of jesus i think it doesn't that it doesn't necessarily
mean siblings male siblings of jesus it seems to me it could actually mean brothers who are engaged
in church activity brothers in the service of the lord doing the work of the lord i think that most
from what i can tell on both sides agree with these passages in first chrithians nine and other
places that these are brothers who work uh you know brothers not in the sibling sense but when they
get to this particular one in in galatians where it singles out james right is where they typically
go okay hold on this seems to be like a very specific guy like right and and you might say well
there's a plural here in first chrithians nine for blood brothers but he's singling out one of these
guys who has this designation who's not an apostle but he works for the lord and he's called a brother
and we call him james the question i have following that is and i look at like what are the earliest
voices that are reading this literature and mark does single a man named james out as a sibling
sure of jesus this is why it's like you know what are the other siblings of jesus called
i mean that's that's the one i was specifically wanting to single out but yeah it doesn't have
john um here are his brothers and one of them is joseph and one of them and his mother yeah
if we look at the 10 most common jewish male names uh i think james and tallylon's enumeration is
actually the 11th most common right jewish male name doesn't quite break the top 10 but jesus brothers
had these exceedingly common names all right and the second thing is in the new testament how many
james's are there oh plenty there are plenty of james okay so jesus has a brother named james
but there are a lot of other james's right and so as a slight digression here
people frequently read the gospels and they try to work out well this jamax says this and
and they're assuming that once i i can deduce from the gospels which james is being referred to here
and i think the confusion among the james's probably predates the time the gospels were
written down right so i don't know that the i don't think we should assume the gospel authors
had this all straight and that all we have to do is deduce right and then there's the problem
with the epistle of james well if he meant he was james the brother the sibling of jesus
why doesn't he say that right right like here's my authority like paul says here's my authority
so technically to make it simple uh what we're finding in the gospels regardless of i
guess irregardless fuel of what we find in paul um you can grant yeah he still had siblings one of
his brothers was named james according to mark and this guy over here doesn't have to be the guy you
have over here because there's this debate going on between these mythosists and these
historicists who want to lay claim of evidence of saying no no no james is his literal brother and
and and really you could grant you can say yeah uh brothers are a designation for people who are
employed working under the church but when we look at the earliest gospel there seems to be
someone knowing he had brothers siblings literal siblings right he had literal siblings and james
and matthew i'm sorry mark and matthew say jesus had a sibling named james as well as i think it's
joseph and simon or the other two right and joseph is the most common jewish male name and
simon is a is in the top ten right so if we picked a random jew what are the odds he'd have the name
of one of jesus brothers they're not bad right jesus brothers names are among the most common
names we have and the same is true when we look at the list of the disciples yeah those are the
most common names there's lots of them and of course there's james the brother of john in the
new testament who is almost always regarded as distinct right and the other the other thing here is
that list of the names of jesus brothers occurs in mark and matthew luke doesn't have it right i think
luke though downplays the family the whole like luke and axe completely wants to whitewash his
family out of the picture but then he has somebody named james show up as a leader of the church in
x15 right there's the section and james and i'm not disputing that that's the same person that
paul met in delish institute i'm almost certain that's the you know those are those two are the
same okay i i think uh paul preserves there was actually a little bit of antagonism between right
between paul and james i think so right luke and luke in x15 wants to get rid of the antagonism
there like all the apostles were were got along to get great and agree yeah well mission
and i think that is definitely not what gallations two is saying i agree right so
who is this james in x15 he may not be his sibling it may be a different james luke never
identifies him as the sibling of jesus it could be a different james and i would call him james of
jerusalem or james the just and yet i could digress a little bit about why he's called james the just
i like james of jerusalem just because gallations has him in jerusalem but i think he's called just
after 70 because of that those passages that origin quotes that the temple was destroyed because of
his great righteousness right it's like well we need to explain if god destroyed jerusalem
because they killed jesus why did they wait 40 years right like you know what's what's the big gap
there ah was because of this guy james the righteous one who is on his knees in the temple praying for
forgiveness all the time as long as he was in there doing that jerusalem was safe but a moment
the jews killed him god smashed the city right right right so i think that's why how he got the name
the just which doesn't occur in the new testament so i think the just is some name he got later
right james the just there was a james of jerusalem who i think may very well not have been jesus
sibling right let me press just a little more as we're leaving out of here on this particular
matter of the brothers and i mean the siblings and then of course the brothers being designated
workers so the the mythicist model says who's our best witness paul and and notice i'm putting
this into the debate so i'm going to use the term historicist for people to understand they think
there's a jesus and who's your best uh witness paul okay okay so we go to paul and what do we find
we find this interpretation that you have brought up that mythicists say and of course even you who's
not a mythicist um is saying yeah that makes a lot of sense there's this designation of brothers and
the lord etc etc but then this is where i think maybe there's a limitation on accepting evidence
on mythic side they get to mark and they go well they they'll play um that that well we can't take
this to the bank that he actually had siblings just because mark said it mark is you hemorrhizing
this mythological celestial angelic jesus of course this is the the mythicist model that
is more along lines of of carrier and such that he's a heavenly christ okay and um so when you see
this he has brothers and it seems these are my brothers this is my mother you know that's clear
what it's saying they have other things that go well mark is uh either a parable or mark is completely
fantastic it's legendary it's not to be taken as this is actually an account that he had brothers
but i'm reading this no matter how embellished or mythologized or legendary you want to make mark
i'm reading this and i'm saying this is a voice that's claiming he had brothers yeah you have to
have a conspiracy kind of of saying like someone made that up that he had brothers and sister brothers
and a mother right and if i was gonna press the mythicist case it would be it's easy to make up
you know somebody if they had brothers and even even as an historicist did they actually know the
james that the names of jesus brothers or did they use three of the most common jewish male names
right israel in the first century but what i'm really saying about james is i don't know
that this was the sibling of jesus the jesus jesus they have had a sibling named james
we're talking the paul passage in the axe situation right i don't know that was that james
and the weird thing is we think oh yes but this was universal in christian interpretation and i
actually don't think it is like when i see origen and when i see even ucbs they'll say things like
who was called the brother of jesus i don't think they were sure i don't think they actually knew
for sure whether this was you know an actual sibling or not and then in the you know sometime
in the fourth century we've got three different positions developing on whether the brothers of
jesus were full brothers or not right right and alice wheelie brings this up that uh she thinks the
early tradition was everybody knew this meant actual sibling and then only later did it become oh well
half you know they were half brothers they were joseph's son but not right marys or they were actually
cousins or something like that but if we look at the earliest traditions it's really not certain
that this guy who was in jerusalem was james the male sibling of jesus except for relations 119
relations 119 is the passage that states that and if you accept the james passage in giusephus
that would back it up but when you when you look at the guys reading this that you know the church
fathers reading is they don't seem to be that certain of it right and there there are and in
some of the apocrypha will have you know james say jesus appears to james after his death that you are
not my brother but you are my brother spiritually he actually says that and the argument is usually
oh but that's late we can't trust you know those later apocryphal traditions but the thing is the
early traditions are not all that clear right yeah this is a really interesting discussion
we've had today we've dealt with the testimony and we dealt with the james the brother the brother
of jesus the so or so called if you were with the call they called him the christ um not the so called
but they called him the christ and then of course the james and galatians passage the brother of the
lord and uh i i asked all that just to kind of make a point to the historicist and i say that
obviously if you're in the debate you know what that means um do they need to die on this hill
is the question do they need to die on this hill of making galatians fit the sibling model or can
they can they find common ground with others and then still grant that here seems to be a reference
someone believed he had siblings actual family in the gospel of mark and then matthew so who are you
wondering once to die on this hill well the reason i mentioned that is the historicists a lot of the
a lot of historicists i know um which had me going along that lines of thinking this is actually his
sibling right we'll we'll die on the hill of making this galatian passage be talking about
actual sibling blood brother of jesus like this has to be his brother and almost like if they
don't die on that hill and they grant it to the people who are saying these are just designated
you know workers in the church that are working along with sisters and brothers of the lord
not siblings that they're giving mythicists all this ground in their mind and i think they're
afraid that this means well jesus never had siblings and therefore you technically can
write him out of history as never existing in stuff you know as someone that follows the
mythicist debates there are other things in paul like he was born of a woman born under the law and
i think no he was a human but he falls paul except this was a you know a jewish man that was born of
a woman like i agree i mean if you wanted pulled up the mythicist argument yep a lot of people
go well that was interpolated and i think yeah okay you know or they say as i've heard uh i think
dr carrie takes the approach born of a woman it seems to be very symbolic because he talks about
being born of sarah from above and all of this kind of stuff so he started to take a different
approach to this just the way where i would depart from him i think paul is saying he was born of a
woman born of a human being and a mythicist can also just say paul was mistaken he didn't know what
he was talking about but i i think he's talking about a human being that lived in the relatively
recent past right right that's the way i would read it but i do agree with the mythicist that
i'm not certain about this brother's passage like i doubt that and i doubt the james passage and i
think a lot of that is again historical inertia that we're used to reading it a certain way
and we're going to continue you know reading it that way this has been fantastic seriously i've
had a blast can you have done all the you just went in and did all of this i really appreciate it
how can people find you other than the uh paper which i have linked down in the description
that's a good question uh i have a blog that no one looks at it's actually just a place for me to
keep stuff that when i'm i when i'm debating when i'm you know talking to other scholars rather than
try to include it in the facebook message i'd say look at this blog post i just started it in december
and i only have three posts um i suppose just google my name i've been there are a couple defunct
lists that i used to participate in recently i've been i've been participating in peter curbie's
biblical criticism and and history forum but that's mostly mythicists and for and among that group
you know i am too conservative and too i'd bound by traditional christianity right you know like
i'm i'm pretty skeptical but i'm not skeptical enough yeah that's the thing i've i've said this
is a criticism i wonder and i said this because i was a mythicist i was i was a mythicist probably
going on a few years and uh but i really started understanding it after about a year really grabbing
on to what they said and i wonder if if mythicists are too skeptical at times right that's the thing
it's like you're not skeptical enough but can you be too skeptical i think so but so i think they're
right that the field in general is not skeptical enough and i think they're too skeptical but of
course everybody thinks you know the people left of me are too skeptical the people right of me are
not skeptical enough yeah just to bring things back to the testimony and plowing on them i think
that is one of the main appeals of the partial interpolation theory i don't want to go all the
way it's completely authentic and i don't want to be so skeptical as to say there's none of it
so let's come up with this middle ground and the thing is the middle ground isn't necessarily
going to be right it right it's an admirable way of uh regulating social interactions but it's not
a very good way of getting to the truth and a typical example you know there's the case of
Solomon was he willing to say well this person is sort of right and this person is sort of right
let's let's compromise and each of you gets half the baby right right so he didn't want to do that
he came up with a way of testing the truth right so it's like ah clearly the woman that
doesn't want the baby cut in half she's the one telling the truth that's what the point of that
story is you don't you don't just figure well this person says this person and this this person
says something else so i'm just going to take something in the middle and say that's the truth
and the point of the Solomon story is that isn't how you get to the truth wow yeah you have me
really put some question marks on the James passage for well the James in Galatians
really has me thinking about that as well i love changing my thinking with new ideas such as you
when you come on i'm a very flexible minded person where i try to go with what i think
makes the most sense and uh yeah i try to fit that in understanding like because i just i'm a guy
who thinks there's a jesus now it doesn't mean i'm dogmatic but like to me there's a lot of criteria
that just comes in that makes me think that way and i keep bringing it back to that because i know
a lot of people watching this are going to be interested in what you have to say but i really
appreciate you also in the testimony because i never really thought about usbus in light of
his current circumstances and how they would have been modeled perfectly for the testimony
of Flavianum so right right thank you and i hope you have a wonderful day thank you ladies and
gentlemen go down in the description read the article it's not too long and tell us what you
think in the comment section don't forget to like the video and check out our patreon because
that's where this will be firsthand don't forget we are myth vision
so
