Did Jesus Christ actually exist in history?
Minimal historicity, minimal mythicism.
Well, according to Camille Greger today,
he has the Achilles' Hill to mythicism.
He believes the probability is on the side of historicity
and that there's more probability
that there was a historical person
at the basis of Christianity than there is mythicism.
I want you guys to see that obviously both sides
see the evidence is convoluted.
There's obviously all sorts of issues
when it comes to the evidence of Jesus.
And Camille does not disagree.
At the same time, the probabilities that he uses
is the same methodology that was taught by Dr. Carrier.
If you guys have not read his book on the historicity,
go down in the description and make sure you get it.
He's also been on this YouTube channel as well.
And we're big fans of both of these guys.
We are all about open-minded discussion
and these discussions should be there
without having contention.
And that's what we're all about here in mythition,
open to dialogue.
Make sure you guys go check out Doug at Pine Creek's channel.
Subscribe to his channel because I'm a huge fan of his.
I watch his YouTube channel religiously.
He's awesome, man.
His stuff is great.
Check him out, check Cam out, check Camille out.
Cam has a Discord group down in the description.
You guys can go and join that.
It's like a chat room to talk about these ideas freely.
And there is no judgment.
They'll tell you what they think though,
but make sure you guys go join that as well.
The Discord group is actually pretty cool.
I've already been in it myself.
Make sure you guys like this video,
subscribe to my channel and hit the bell
and comment down below your thoughts of this channel
or this video that I'm about to do.
I have a Patreon.
So if you guys want to be members of MythVision
and join MythVision podcast
and help us out with what we're doing,
you can go and join our MythVision podcast, Patreon.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
I have a treat today.
And it's gonna be a very, I guess you'd say,
intense program here from our friend here, Camille.
And I would butcher your name
if I tried to say it in its original tongue.
But thank you for joining me.
Thank you, you did very well.
I really appreciate you joining me.
It's really an honor to be able to listen to you.
I've been watching you on Dug, Pine Creek Dug.
For those of you who are not aware of his YouTube channel,
you need to be aware because he has a lot of interesting guests
and he talks about a lot of very important issues
and topics that are pertinent to Christianity
and what is going on in fundamentalist circles
and how to deal with apologetics
and the apologist out there.
He has all sorts of interesting stuff.
So make sure you guys go subscribe, like, comment
on his videos that helps this channel grow.
And also up front, Cam, who's another special guest
that shows up on Doug's channel, has a Discord.
It's down in the description of this video.
If you guys like Discord, you're not sure.
It's like a chat room area where you can go
and Cam has tons of information, academic information
for you guys to learn more about the pertinent issues
that we deal with with the Bible.
I mean, lots of topics.
So welcome to the show, Camille.
And what do you bring for us today?
I'm interested.
Yeah, absolutely.
So first of all, let me just say up front, I'm an atheist.
So we are going to be talking about Jesus' mythicism.
So I just want to clarify that I don't believe
in the Christ of faith, right?
So when we're talking about Jesus,
who was born of a virgin, walked on water,
was raised from the dead, yeah, that is a myth.
He didn't exist.
But I would describe myself as a minimal mythicist,
which means I believe that there probably
was a Jewish religious leader named Jesus
who during his life acquired some followers
and he was crucified by the Romans.
And some of his followers became convicts
for whatever reason that he rose from the dead
and the rest is history, right?
And the reason why I'm here today is because at some point,
I think a couple of months ago,
I had a conversation with Joel,
who you had on recently, who is a mythicist.
And we were talking about this residue of Jesus.
And I happen to mention Richard Carrier.
Who is of course a prominent mythicist, historian.
And he later wrote a review of the conversation.
That's actually about 40 pages long.
And I was completely blown away by this
because I'm not a professional scholar.
And I thought, you know, Richard Carrier
has more important things to do than write about me.
So I felt obligated to repay the overs that he must have
spent writing about me.
But the problem is that I have a job.
So I don't have as much free time as him.
But I do have a draft of a blog post.
It's not a response to his review.
It's just some thoughts that I have about his work,
given that I disagree with his conclusion.
But the problem is I haven't had a chance
to finish it and publish it.
But then you asked me to come on your show
and I decided this might be a good opportunity
to kind of tease what might be in the blog post
when it's finished.
And let's see what people think about it, right?
So that's why I'm here.
Well, thank you for joining me here.
And I know that recently,
because by the way, I haven't read that whole blog post.
I just know that he had mentioned you.
Not really, I didn't really delve
into reading the whole thing.
I was just told, hey, he does,
he did mention Camille in a blog post
and mentioned something about his methodology
when it comes to Bayesian theory
and how that affects history
or how he's using it towards mythicism,
which he writes like a large portion of his book
on the historicity is about that.
And I know that you actually disagree with his conclusions.
And I think you mentioned that in the video with Joel,
even though I didn't watch the whole video either.
I have not actually spent my time doing that.
I'm here to host you
and hear why you actually ultimately disagree
with his theory on mythicism.
And it's not like a heated, contentious thing.
You've come up with different ideas.
You sent me this chart.
Not sure when you want me to have that pop up, but...
Yeah, let's do it later.
Yeah, it's interesting to say,
it's important to say that the conversation
that I had with Joel that started all of this
was just...
I mean, it was on his channel.
It was off the cuff and a couple of hundred people saw it,
maybe more now.
So, yeah, I was really surprised
that Richard Carrier of all people,
given that neither me or Joel are people of any importance,
pays attention to it.
So, yeah, I mean, the reason why I'm doing this
is because I feel obligated to give some of the effort
that he put into thinking about my thoughts back to him.
So, yeah, I hope this is going to be productive.
I want to tell everybody
that you are the intellectual artillery
behind the Pine Creek Doug YouTube channel.
So, if you want to know where he's getting some of his fire
from Camille's The Man.
And by the way, I want to mention this upfront
for our audience.
A lot of people ask me, what do you believe, Eric?
And honestly, I'm agnostic.
I tell this to Dr. Price all the time.
I'm a big fan of him.
I love his skepticism.
Now, is he overly skeptic at time?
I'm sure.
I mean, he's reading some of these, you know,
very, very critical scholars, German critical scholars
that like are very nitpicky about certain details.
And I've heard that said,
but to me, I'm going to start with absolute skepticism
and work my way into what I can find that makes sense.
And so I'll wake up on the wrong side of the bed
and I think, well, you know what, damn it,
there was a Jesus.
I just don't know much about him,
except he was Jewish maybe and like whatever.
And then other times I'm like minimal mythicism
and I wrestle with this idea.
So I'm going to be taking notes from you today
and learning from you.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
I can definitely appreciate that, right?
Like who would like Richard Price?
Sorry, Bob Price.
First of all, he's such an adorable teddy bear.
And also I'm a huge Lovecraftian fan.
So that's bonus points right there.
I don't personally have any problems
with Richard Carrier unlike other people.
I think he's my favorite Ben Shapiro impersonator.
So I hope this is going to be a very cordial discussion.
Yeah, I mean, so just to kind of clarify
a little bit more where I'm at,
I wouldn't say like that,
even when we talk a minimal Jesus, right?
So you take the Jesus that he's depicted
in the New Testament and outside the Bible
and you just stripped him to a bare minimum
to a point when it even makes sense
to talk about a person who actually existed.
I'm not like 100% confident that he did.
It's more a question of probability.
And I like to say that like on good days,
I'm basically 50-50.
So I wake up being completely agnostic
probably the same way you are.
But on bad days, I would put myself somewhere
around 70% probability of that person actually existing,
which is not very strong.
It's probably like my level of confidence is much lower
than well, certainly in most New Testament scholars, right?
Because they kind of take it for granted.
But I think, you know, even though we are not like
nobody's claiming to be absolutely certain
one way or the other,
it's important to realize that sometimes people
kind of take it to the opposite extreme.
And just because we can't know for sure
one way or the other,
they just jump to complete agnosticism
and they kind of just give up and conclude that,
yeah, we can't say either way.
I think we can be a little bit more ambitious than that.
And we can say, okay, even though we can't be certain,
there are things that we can know
with less than absolute certainty.
Ancient history is one of them.
So let's look at the evidence
and let's see if we end up being,
if we end up thinking that the probability is higher
than not or the other way around, right?
Cool, so let me just maybe just briefly talk about
some of the thoughts that I want to share
if that's okay with you.
And maybe you can tell me what you think about it.
You can maybe try to poke some holes
because there might very well be something
that I overlooked and you'll point it out,
but it's okay.
I'll try, I guess.
Yeah, so here's just like,
I have a, let's say a couple of issues with carrier support.
Some of it has to do with some of the pieces
of the evidence he analyzes,
but I thought I would just simplify it
and just focus on the question of prior probability, right?
Because when it comes to,
and I noticed that when it comes to the discussion
about the historical Jesus,
people very often focus a lot on the quality
of quantity of evidence.
And it's true that for a lot of characters
who show up in ancient Greek or Roman literature,
we have even less evidence than we do for Jesus.
For example, there are ancient characters
who are first mentioned in Suda,
which is a 10th century Byzantine encyclopedia,
which means that in some cases,
they are actually first mentioned
over a thousand years after they supposed to lift, right?
I can imagine if Jesus was like that,
if he was first mentioned,
not in like decades after his death, supposedly,
but a thousand years, right?
But historians still think
that some of these people are existed,
even though the evidence is so bad.
And the question is why?
And it has to do with the prior probability, right?
So when you are evaluating the hypothesis,
there are essentially two components to the process.
There is the evaluation of the actual evidence
and there is the question of prior probability.
And in this case,
when we are evaluating the hypothesis
of a historical person existing,
even if someone has a very poor evidence of his existence,
we can still conclude that he probably existed
if the same sorts of people like him usually existed
and are very rarely fictional, right?
So for example, we know of a couple of hundred
ancient historiographers
and many of them are only mentioned hundreds
and hundreds of years after they supposedly lived.
But we also have a lot of examples
of his ancient historiographers we know existed
and there are only very few ancient historiographers
who are fictional.
So when we just come across another ancient historiographer,
we think, yeah, the prior probability that he's typical
and not exceptional is probably very high.
So yeah, even though the evidence is pretty poor,
we are still reasonable to conclude
that this person is typical and not exceptional.
And so he probably existed,
even though we can't say one way or the other
with absolute confidence or with absolute certainty, right?
Unless of course there is a very strong evidence
that this specific character for some reason
is the exception and didn't actually exist.
And I think this is the same with Jesus
and Richard Carrier essentially does the same thing.
So when he's thinking about prior probability,
he puts Jesus into a group of ancient characters.
So people in show up in Gregoroman literature
and he looks at the group
and he finds out that all the people in the group
didn't exist.
So he thinks that Jesus is probably not an exception.
He probably didn't exist either, right?
Or at least his assessment of the prior probability
is very low.
And then he argues that the evidence is not strong enough
to actually overcome that low prior probability.
And this is rank Raglan, right?
He's using the rank Raglan.
Yeah, so in the book, The Historicity of Jesus,
he uses the rank Raglan heroes.
These are heroes that supposedly follow some mythotype.
So there is a list of attributes
that they usually meet.
These would be people like Moses, Thazos, Perseus,
Zeus, Belerophon, Asclepius, Romulus, Hercules, of course,
Osiris, and maybe some other people.
And when he's giving talks,
he often talks about Jesus in relation
to the dying and rising gods, so like Baal,
again, Osiris, Inanna, Hercules, Dionysius,
Asclepius, Zalmoxes, Adonis, right?
So gods that die somehow and then somehow are revived, right?
And again, obviously, if you put Jesus
into that group of people or characters,
you find out that they are all fictional, right?
Like we don't think that Osiris actually existed.
So Jesus probably didn't exist as well.
Or at least the prior probability is very low.
But when I was thinking about it,
I think there is something that he might overlook.
And this is where the picture comes into play.
So if you can put it on the screen
and kind of have it in there for a while.
Yeah, absolutely.
Here we go, hold on, let me pop it up.
And you should be seeing this?
Yeah, I do.
So what I noticed is that in,
so when you look at characters that appear
in Greco-Roman and ancient Jewish literature
and share some similarity to Jesus.
So they are sons of gods, demigods,
incarnation of pre-existing gods,
miracle workers, Jewish religious leaders,
you know, people who are depicted
as culminations of messianic expectations.
And you kind of put them on a timeline
based on when they are depicted as living on earth,
you essentially get this trend, right?
So we are basically looking at
when the character is depicted as living,
not when the literature about him was written.
So for example, the Iliad is usually dated
to the second half of the eighth century.
But the characters in the Iliad are like the story
actually takes place at the end of the Bronze Age.
So I think 12th or 13th century, right?
So the composition of the work is like 300 years removed
from the events that it depicts.
So in this case, we would be putting Hector and Achilles
to the 13th century.
So this is what I'm talking about, right?
When the character is depicted as living.
And when you do that, for all of these characters
that are somehow similar to Jesus,
share some important similarity,
you get this distribution.
And you can see that a lot of the characters
who didn't exist are depicted as living
in very distant past,
when almost nobody who is depicted as living back then
existed, regardless of whether he is similar to Jesus
or not.
If you think about the Bible, for example,
and you think about the characters who show up
at the very beginning of the book, like Adam,
you know, Abraham, Moses,
we don't think that they existed.
But if you actually go through to very,
or more recent history,
then you start getting people who historians think
are probably real people, right?
And it's the same with Deco-Roman literature.
So I noticed that all of the examples that Carrier gives,
so for example, all of the examples
in his Frank Reckland class,
and all of the examples of his dying and rising gods
are actually characters who are depicted as living on earth
in a very, very distant past.
But if you actually look at people
who are similar to Jesus,
but they are depicted as living in a more recent time,
roughly around the same period as Jesus,
they almost always existed.
So the kinds of claims that are told about Jesus,
even though we know they are not true,
were usually told about people who existed,
and they were much less often told about fictional characters.
So for example, we have examples of sons of gods, right?
Like Alexander or Augustus Caesar.
We have examples of demigods or incarnations
of pre-existing gods like Apollonias of Tyana.
We have examples of miracle workers.
We have, of course, many examples of Jewish religious leaders,
people who are depicted as culminations
of messianic expectations.
And when they are depicted as living
around the same period of time as Jesus,
they are almost always historical.
So when you kind of take Carrier's assessment
of prior probability and you update it
by bringing in this additional factor,
which is like a very strong predictor of historicity,
I think you end up with a revised prior probability
that is actually very high,
which means that even if you then agree with Carrier,
that the evidence is not very strongly pointing
in either direction, which this is what he's arguing.
Well, then you end up concluding the Jesus's propoblixte
because the sorts of people like him usually existed.
So yeah.
No, no, no, this is interesting because I guess we couldn't,
it'd be good not to run to the gospels
to try and like start there and say,
hey, okay, I do personally, I do see a lot of parallel
or a lot of commonality, if you will,
between Jesus from the gospels
and a lot of these older stories,
there's a lot in common that you find,
from Osiris, you know, a Sclipius, Heraclis, Dionysus,
and I've been recently reading Dennis R. McDonald,
but even you aren't factoring the gospels.
You're saying, look,
we're not even talking about the gospels necessarily.
If you wanna get to the meat of the crux of the argument,
let's look at Paul, and in Paul, you're also suggesting
there's enough here to say there was probably a guy,
probably, and you start with a good prior probability,
higher than he does in his book,
because I think if I'm not mistaken,
he starts with like, there's a third,
like 33 or 30%, something like,
it's like a one-third chance that Jesus existed,
and I think he concludes with that at the end.
He says, it's one out of three,
and you're saying something more like two out of three, right?
You're like saying-
Yeah, well, yeah, so this is important to get correctly,
because there is a little bit of confusion.
On the historicity of Jesus,
Carrier actually gives two sets of probability estimates
for essentially every data point,
so every piece of evidence, and the prior probability,
and then of course the posterior.
One of them is what he calls,
or what he thinks is the absolutely most generous
he can be to historicity.
So if you bend yourself backwards
to be as charitable as possible
to the idea that Jesus existed,
then if I remember correctly,
his estimate of the prior probability is one in three,
and then he thinks that the evidence,
if you take this approach, is ambiguous.
So on balance, it doesn't really
very strongly point in either direction.
Like some pieces of evidence he thinks
are more probable on historicity,
some are more probable on mysticism,
but it kind of balances out.
So he ends up with essentially the prior one in three.
But then there is the second set of probability estimates,
which he thinks are his honest assessment.
So if he's not being super charitable
to historicity on purpose, then this is what he gets.
And there, I think the estimate of the prior probability
is much, much lower, and then what's important
is that the evaluation of evidence
is much more in favor of mysticism in his opinion.
So he actually ends up with a posterior,
which is very, very high.
It's like over 99%, I think it's 99.9 something, right?
And I obviously disagree with that.
But I noticed that when he's talking about this,
like when he's giving lectures,
he almost never mentions the estimates
that he thinks are his honest actual estimates.
He always says he thinks the probabilities one in three.
So I'm just a methosis, sorry, I'm just a historicist.
So if he wants to throw me a bone
and be super charitable to my view,
I'm going to take it, right?
So yeah, he would say, like if he was here right now,
probably given the talks that he's gave
since the book was out, he would say,
yeah, I'm just saying, you know,
the probability is somewhere around one in three.
And I would, yeah, as I said,
I would go either 50-50 or somewhere between 50-50
and like 70-30.
And this is not rocket science, right?
Like we don't have any exact numbers.
We don't have any extremely large data sets,
anything like that.
There are problems with all kinds of biases,
like obviously the ancient literature
that we have available is very fragmentary.
So we are not sure if these distributions were the case
in the entire body of ancient literature that ever existed.
But yeah, I mean, if you take this into account,
this is what you end up with, I think.
So what I'm looking at here is in his book
on the historicity, he's using these,
I guess you'd say eighth century or if you will,
very old myths that we,
if there was a person,
or if there was ever a historical person,
it's so far in antiquity at this point,
we conclude they probably didn't exist
until we have evidence otherwise.
Kind of like we did with Troy,
we didn't think it existed till we found more reason
to believe there was a city.
And just an example, or I mean,
because it looks to me that he,
according to what you're saying here,
he didn't factor in some of these like closer to,
like Jesus ben Ananiah, Simon of Pariah,
these figures in his book, did he not cover those?
Because the prior probability all matters
on what you're gonna conclude
when you start with something extremely low
and you don't factor in some of these other things.
Yeah, so that's a great question actually.
So I'm not saying that he didn't take into account
the specific ancient characters.
What I'm saying is that he didn't take into account
like a specific trend,
like a specific very strong predictor
of whether an ancient character was historical or fictional.
And it seems to me that this predictor
is when the character is depicted as living.
Because all of the examples that he gives
of characters that are similar to Jesus,
and that some of them he places in the same reference class,
and that's how he estimates the prior probability,
but all of those people are actually depicted
as living in extremely distant past.
And the problem is that almost everyone,
I would say in ancient Greek or Roman literature,
everyone that's depicting us living
around that period of time is fictional.
And it doesn't matter if they are similar to Jesus or not.
So I think he might actually be,
like the reason why these people are fictional
is not because they are similar to Jesus,
it's because of when they are depicted as living, right?
Like if you just run through the list,
it's actually interesting because Greeks
had a very sophisticated chronology
of their own mythology, right?
They thought obviously that all of these
mythical characters existed.
So they were wondering when they lived
and they put together very comprehensive view.
So that was like a timeline.
You could place some events that never existed,
like never took place in exact years, right?
So for example, like the Trojan War
is usually dated to either mid-12th or mid-13th century BCE,
according to these Greek chronologies of ancient history,
even though there probably wasn't a Trojan War, right?
At least not as it's depicted.
And the second point is,
it's very important to realize again
that what I'm describing is not about the gap
between when the events take place
and when the literature is written, right?
So the reason why the characters
who existed in very distant past probably never existed
is not necessarily because like the first sources
about them were written very late.
And the reason why the people who are depicted
as living in like a more recent past
are almost or historical,
is not because the sources that are mentioning them
are closer to their own lives.
I think there are other reasons,
like there are specific reasons
that have to do with literary conventions
for why this trend exists.
Just as an example, one of the reasons
why the trend is like that is because
when authors of Greek or Roman literature
and ancient Greek literature invented fictional characters,
specifically fictional characters
that share similarities to Jesus,
they usually depicted them as living
in very, very distant past.
One example is Seneca,
who is roughly contemporaries with Jesus,
who wrote, like he wrote roughly about the same,
around the same period of time as Paul.
And he writes about gods who never existed.
But what he doesn't do is he doesn't invent a new God
and he doesn't depict that God as living in his own time
or like 30 years before his own time.
Right.
He writes about media, who is a character,
depicted in very distant past.
He writes about Jason, he writes about Athena,
stuff like that.
So it seems to me, this just wasn't something
that these people did.
It could be of course the case that Jesus is exceptional
and there are reasons why the authors of the New Testament
and the founders of Christianity did that,
even though other people in their own time didn't do it.
But exceptions are by definition improbable.
They are infrequent, so they are improbable.
And if they were not infrequent,
we would have more examples like that
and we don't, it seems to me.
So if you don't mind me asking a question,
because this actually comes to kind of a root problem
I found with the New Testament
and this whole trying to figure who the guy is,
trying to find the historical Jesus for me.
It's strange to me, and I'm sure you probably share
this like eager, like, ah, why Paul is like following
and worshiping this forgiving, dying and rising guy, Jesus,
if he only died 20 years ago.
To me, 20, 30 years ago from the time he wrote,
to me, and I'm not saying it's not possible,
I had Rabbi Tovia Singer come on and he was like,
have you ever heard of cognitive dissonance, Derek?
And I'm like, yes.
But he's like, I don't know if you know
the power of cognitive dissonance,
but anyway, it's a very powerful thing.
But how a theological system has developed around this guy
in such a short amount of time to me is just, it's amazing.
I mean, if he is a historical guy from the 30s, it's amazing.
And so I factor in these different ideas
and I just have this hard,
I have a hard time like swallowing that pill.
And I don't know if you've experienced the same thing
as me when it comes to this man named Paul,
who somehow wasn't in direct communication
with the Jesus on earth,
but he had known maybe of disciples who were,
has this dying and rising,
did he recreate an earlier movement?
Is this like a mystery school blend
attaching itself to a guy in history?
You know, I just have a hard time wondering
how he has such high theology in such a short amount of time.
Yeah, I mean, what I'm just wondering is
if metacism really solves that problem,
like if it's a much better alternative,
because on metacism, you would have to push
the actual origins, like unknown origins of Christianity
farther back in time in order to solve that problem, right?
So you would need more time for the theology to develop.
And then of course, you have the problem of,
like these people became convinced that this person,
that there is this divine being that never existed, right?
So if you, for example, think that Paul became convinced
that Jesus is the Messiah is this divine being
because he had some kinds of experience
and he concluded that this is true,
well, then it doesn't matter if there was a history
with Jesus or not, like in that case,
events play exactly the same way, right?
So yeah, I'm not really sure
how like metacism solves this problem.
And it's like, it's definitely true
and the carrier writes about this very extensively,
that you can essentially, it seems to me that to a large degree,
you can piece together the core of New Testament theology
from the Old Testament
and from essentially second-tempo Jewish beliefs, right?
Like so there could be some tangential evidence,
like in some cases better, in some cases worse,
that for example, the Son of Man was already identified
with the Messiah before Christianity started,
or that Daniel was already interpreted
as depicting a dying Messiah.
You can argue, for example,
that the Son of Man was already identified
with the suffering servant from Isaiah
before Christianity started, right?
But again, like if you are convinced of this,
then doesn't really make any difference
if there was a guy who these theological ideas
were associated with or not, right?
Then history essentially plays exactly the same way.
It doesn't really seems to me
that one is extremely more probable than the other.
It wouldn't matter, right?
I get what you're saying.
So whether there was a historical guy,
and that's why like, I like to put it just my opinion
and I love how you're factoring in this evidence.
I always put like, there's a 50-50 chance,
he was either a historical guy or he's not a historical guy,
kind of like the creation arguments that Christians come in.
Well, look, dude, you've got a 50-50 chance,
God either did it or he didn't do it, right?
So I'm just playing that role,
but I start with that guess
and you bring up a good point
that I think if you don't mind me sharing something else
that I, me and my buddy, I can't name them,
we were talking about some of these things
and talking about the prior probability concepts
and why you start with a higher,
and now everybody can see why you start
with a higher probability than the low probability
that Dr. Carrier brings in.
Let me share this screen with you.
Here we go.
So, Bayesian calculator, right here is interesting.
So you start with 0.67 approximately
or something like that,
just to give a rough calculation,
that's pretty much two thirds rather than one thirds,
if you will.
Instead of starting with like one out of three chance
that historicity is the case, it's a two out of three
and you're still giving a 33% chance technically
that mythicism could be the case,
but when you factor in a lot of these ideas here,
that should change the prior probability
and ultimately you come up with a different conclusion
than Dr. Carrier does.
So I wanted to show that real quick if you didn't mind.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
So I mean, it's important to still realize
that we are talking about the prior probability,
which is like one component,
and then there is a lot of individual pieces of evidence
where they have, like each individual piece of evidence
has its own probability estimate,
which essentially gives you, it tells you
whether it supports historicity or mythicism, right?
It's more likely that the evidence would look like
the way it does if historicity was true
or mythicism was true.
And that of course takes into account
absence of evidence as well, right?
Like if we have, for example, something that doesn't exist,
but we think it should, if historicity is true,
well, then that's evidence for mythicism, right?
So it's absolutely true that it could be the case
that if you start with a very high prior probability,
you still end up thinking that Jesus probably didn't exist.
If you think that the evidence is favoring mythicism,
and we could go through these individual pieces of evidence
and talk about it one by one,
because when I just take the numbers from Carrier's book,
go through them, in some of the cases,
I basically agree completely.
I don't have anything substantial to say.
In some cases, I would put this probability differently.
Like for example, I agree with his, like the direction,
but I think the magnitude is incorrect.
Like I would probably put the probability estimate,
for example, favoring historicity or favoring mythicism
the same way he does, but I would just make it,
make that hypothesis favor more.
And in some cases, I just disagree with the direction.
And I think what's sometimes the case
that he just jumps to the conclusion
that a given piece of evidence is expected on mythicism,
because if Jesus didn't exist,
then the relevant people are free to invent
kind of whatever they want to.
But I think some of the pieces of evidence
which he thinks are expected on mythicism
are actually at least equally unexpected on mythicism
as they are on historicity.
But this is something that I kind of want to avoid,
because then you are playing a wakamal
and you're just jumping from like one piece of evidence
to the other.
And also when you start talking about evidence,
it tends to get bogged down to extremely like minute details
about interpretations of Galatians 1.19
and whether it says other than the apostles
or other of the apostles in the original Greek
and stuff like that, right?
Like I never want to have another discussion
rather of the Lord.
Because this is something that people bring up all the time.
Because I have to say, most histories,
it's like most people, even people who are casually interested
in ancient history, don't actually know
how to argue Jesus' historicity.
And they think specifically that there are just
a couple of knockdown arguments,
usually like knockdown passages that you can point to.
And it just proves that immediately that Jesus existed,
like the Stimoneon Flavianum, the Rurals of the Age,
Jesus was handed over, denied Jesus was handed over,
like various things.
And because they don't actually care to read
what someone like Richard Carrier has to say,
they are not aware that Genesis have actually done
a lot of work around these passages, right?
So that's why these debates are usually always
about these couple of small passages.
That's why I like to focus more on the prior probability,
because it's much more interesting.
And to be honest, I think that, yeah,
that there is probably like a substantial objection.
Because it seems to me that there is at least
one very strong predictor of historicity
that is not taken into account.
I got one more chart I gotta bring up if you're okay.
And this one's actually goes in line
of what you're discussing here,
because what it appears to be is minimal historicity
has more explanatory power,
even if you do think something is mythology,
it doesn't take away that there may have been
a historical root to it.
So like be gotten of a woman, be gotten under the law.
One could say it's allegory, minimal mythicism.
It still doesn't mean that this couldn't have been
really a guy that they're making a allegory about.
So it's kind of like minimal historicity
kind of outweighs the overall evidence.
Does that make sense?
No matter what?
Yes, so this is also very important.
It's like, again, this has to do with evaluation
of the evidence, not the prior probability, right?
So this is the part of the discussion that I want to review.
But that's okay, right?
But this is like a more important meta point, right?
So as you mentioned very correctly,
there is a lot of pieces of evidence
which could potentially favor historicity,
but there isn't any like silver bullet, right?
You can always kind of argue around it.
You can say it's an interpolation.
It wasn't in the original text.
There's multiple ways how to interpret it.
So you can always wiggle around it
because that's why mythicists exist, right?
Like if there was a silver bullet,
mythicism wouldn't be around.
The problem is that it seems to me
that out of all of the possible readings
that are on the table,
only some of them must be true for mythicism to go through
and minimal historicity is usually able
to accommodate a much more alternatives, right?
So when you look at, for example,
the night in which he was handed over,
yeah, it can mean a number of different things.
The problem is that for mythicism to be true
and specifically carrier's mythicism to be true,
it must mean Jesus was handed over
to the powers of Satan by God in lower heavens
on like a subliminal orbit, right?
They go almost any other alternative
makes at least minimal mythicism much, much less probable,
right?
Which would be fine if we were just talking
about one piece of evidence.
The problem is there is so many of them, right?
So it becomes like the problem with a consumption, right?
Mythicism can only go through
if a lot of these individual pieces of evidence
are interpreted in a very small number, usually,
particular ways, while historicity is much more flexible.
Like I have absolutely no problem in many of these instances
with the idea, for example,
that the language in question is allegorical
because Jesus, it could be the case
that Paul is talking allegorically
and there still was a historical Jesus.
But a myth says cannot do the same thing in reverse.
He cannot say, yeah, Paul wasn't talking allegorically,
he was talking about the real guy,
but Jesus still didn't exist, right?
That's still possible,
but it's admittedly much, much less probable.
So I was reminded of this like the same problem.
I don't know if you know Mike Winger.
He's a Christian, yeah, he's a Christian apologist.
And he recently did a video about flat earth in the Bible
because as we all know,
of this little Bible teaches flat earth,
that was the standard cosmological model
in the ancient Near Eastern world
and in the ancient Greek world as well,
like in, for example, Homer and Hesiod, the world is flat.
They even gives you the specific dimensions.
So that's not ambiguous.
The problem is, of course,
that if you are a Christian apologist,
you have to do a lot of explaining.
And the way how he goes about it is he lists the passages
that are usually pointed to by Christians
who believe in flat earth as evidence for flat earth.
And he says that in every single instance
of a passage like that,
there is a potential meaning that can salvage the idea
that the earth is a globe.
So you can always wiggle your way out of it.
But the problem is that there is so many passages
where you have to do this much work.
And they would have to all be true at the same time.
Because if there is even one passage
where the author really did think that the earth is flat,
then the Bible does really teach of flat earth,
at least in that one passage, right?
And this is kind of equivalent because, yeah,
there is a lot of different pieces of evidence
which are ambiguous.
But the problem is that if even one of them
favors historicity,
well, then historicity becomes much more probable.
So like a mythicist needs to tweak a lot of knobs
at the same time.
And I think us historicists
don't have to do it nearly as much, right?
So yeah.
Good point.
That's a great point, Kamil,
because there's, like I mentioned prior to the show,
that I'd like to get a book out for that whole movement
that I was talking about,
that thinks all genetic descendants of Abraham
are the Gentiles,
they're lost Israelites in the New Testament,
they're being saved.
If you find one place where somewhere in the New Testament,
it does teach that the message goes beyond the scope
of the 12 tribes, genetic descendants,
then what you could conclude at that point
is there was a original Jewish only movement
that evolved into something much bigger.
And I think that is what we're gonna probably conclude,
but I don't wanna presuppose
before I have evidence to make a case,
because I mean, why did the church develop
into what it is today?
If there wasn't differences of Christianity,
different types of opinions that began to evolve
and different churches developed,
and eventually, of course,
Pagan's lock, stock and barrel started to swallow this pill
and said, hey, this is the way we're gonna believe in this.
Non-Israelites started to believe it.
So anyway, I like what you did there,
because I always tell people sometimes it isn't
the idea that we're proposing that's wrong.
It might have that teaching in certain places,
but the text itself, trying to harmonize the text itself,
I'm not trying to rabbit-troll
into undesigned coincidences or anything like that,
but we harmonize so much to try to make things work.
I'm trying to be more critical today in my thinking
and learning from very good scholars
on how to approach this information.
So if you found a historical Jesus anywhere,
then it does hype up the probability
that there was someone that started this thing,
or at least it's based off of.
Yeah, well, I mean, someone started, right?
It was just if he was named Jesus and he was crucified.
But yeah, I mean, I absolutely agree.
Like people tend to do this kind of thing
with all kinds of stuff, right?
Like conspiracy theories, yeah, flood, earth,
different religious interpretations,
like Calvin is to it with some biblical passages,
Armenians, open theists, right?
One thing I think that people tend intuitively,
one mistake that people intuitively make
is that when they come across a passage,
which is ambiguous as to whether it supports
their hypothesis or an alternative,
they say, okay, it's ambiguous,
so the chances are 50-50, right?
But the problem is that it's very often the case
that there is a range of possible meanings
that a passage might have.
And your hypothesis can only accommodate a very small range.
And the alternative can accommodate a much more,
like much broader range, right?
Like when you, for example, think Paul saying something,
Jesus was born of a woman, well, carry her
in order for his minimal mythicism to go through,
pretty much has to argue that Paul was talking metaphorically
that he wasn't talking about actual woman,
whether she was named Mary or not, right?
That could be from my tradition.
But I, as a hysterist, don't have to do it.
I can say, okay, maybe he's talking about the real person
that actually existed, like a biological mother,
or maybe he's just being metaphorical, right?
Like I don't have to defend only one very narrow reading.
Like this would be totally fine
if that was just one or a couple of things.
But the problem is that for a curious version
of mythicism specifically to go through
and end up being very probable,
you have to do it with so many things at the same time, right?
Like he postulates several interpolations
that are not a minor majority view
in biblical scholarship.
He of course postulates interpolations
in extra biblical texts.
Yeah, these kind of things start adding up.
And if you tweak the,
if you start tweaking the numbers
in his probability estimate,
then yeah, you would probably end up with a probability
that is higher than 50% in favor of historicity, to be honest.
That's interesting how you said that.
It made me think because my,
I guess what I was gonna ask is technically,
if it was born of a woman as in like the Hagar stuff
that Galatians talks about, as if it is allegorical.
You mentioned that if like there's a lot more to the story,
there's so many more areas that we have to hurdle.
And if the explanation is not as clear,
like you have to put it in the lower heavens
or you have to have it,
instead of it being the Romans,
it's demons or something and you can make a case,
but at what point,
this is where I think the debate starts to happen
is over these details.
If let's just say Carrier was right, totally speculate
and say Carrier's right on most of his assumptions
that this is mythology
and that it is in favor of this idea
of the angelic concept of Jesus, et cetera,
does that still take away from historicity?
And at what point would you draw the line and say,
okay, if he was right about this many things,
then mythicism would be the case,
but I'm not convinced that he's right about these things.
Is there any way you can format that or?
That's a good question.
I will think about it.
Because like I can go through,
there is a lot of different,
so in my mind, I have the same table
that he has in his book with the Bayesian estimates, right?
And I've kind of tweaked some of those parameters
because I disagree with him on a couple of points
to a different degree, right?
And there is a lot of different ways
how you can tweak the table
and it still gives you Jesus being more probably fictional
than not, right?
So yeah, like I can maybe imagine him being correct
where I don't think he is,
or like we have a different opinion,
different view on that.
But I would have to see like how it ends up.
And there is probably like multiple different ways
that eventually get you to the same conclusion.
Yeah, I mean, then of course,
like going back specifically to Paul,
then of course, much more interesting question is,
why is it the case that there isn't a single bullet
in Paul's letters, right?
Like why is it the case that Paul doesn't
inambiguously mention Jesus on earth, right?
Because yeah, all of these passages can be read ambiguously.
Sometimes you have to like stretch it a little bit.
Sometimes you have to posit an interpolation
to actually get rid of it,
get rid of the problem completely.
Because in some cases,
if the passage in question was in the original text,
then metacism is very, very improbable.
At least it's improbable
that Paul wasn't talking about a guy on earth.
So yeah, I mean, that's a completely legitimate question.
That's like new testaments have to answer anyway.
And even if they think that Jesus probably existed,
it's still very important to ask,
why is it the case that Paul
isn't apparently interested in talking about him, right?
Yeah.
That would be interesting.
And dude, I'm sure you probably have enough to do in your life
than to sit here and make charts for everything.
But I would love to see like where you take the points
that can weigh in for or against
and kind of do a calculation and say,
if he's right about this point,
then this and all the other ones he's wrong or whatever.
And you could take it through and show like
if one of these points ends up going on
the side of historicity or this is,
it teeters back and forth based on the calculator,
which at the end of the day, the calculator is great,
but it's just a model trying to figure out
whether there was or wasn't.
And that's what's interesting about this whole thing.
Yeah, I mean, I think there are some people
who are doing that.
Like I know at least one guy who is drafting
essentially a book in response to Carrier
and he is thinking about basically like tweaking
the numbers the way how he sees it, which is fine.
Like Carrier actually recommends this,
people doing this in his book, right?
He says, okay, these are my estimates.
And if you think the numbers should be different
then by all means come up with your version.
And this is why I like Bayesian reasoning so much
because it's like obviously everyone understands
that the numbers are just, it's not like hard data.
We don't actually know any of these probabilities,
but it's a very nice mental representation
of the way how you think about various arguments, right?
Like if you put a number on it,
then it makes your thinking transparent
and you are less likely to make inference,
like errors in inference because yeah, Bayesian epistemology,
the inferences that we make should follow
some principles of probability in order for them to be valid.
I was obviously thinking about doing the same thing,
but the problem is I have to go to work every day.
To be honest, I was thinking about
like where should I put the attention,
whether it's counter-apologetics or Jesus' Methodism, right?
Yeah, I agree with Carrier
that there hasn't been any good defense of historicity.
And I absolutely think that like in 10 years
I would probably be qualified enough to write it.
But I asked around what people want me to do,
like ask them like if you had to pick between me
debating Carrier about Jesus' Methodism or me debating,
I don't know, Mike Lacuna about the resurrection.
Pretty much everyone said do the resurrection.
I think probably because people think
like Christian apologetics is more harmful,
so it's more important to combat it,
even though it's not necessarily the way
how I think about it.
So yeah, like now I'm much more thinking
about undecided coincidences than like
1st Thessalonians do 14 to 16, I think.
Honestly, that's a huge question on this channel,
the historicity, but I'm gonna tell you
that's not all this channel's about.
And we've been growing and evolving as a channel,
trying to bring in different things than just this.
In fact, when I reached out to you,
I wasn't even like, honestly,
I was not trying to even have the,
I wasn't even trying to say,
hey, come talk about the historicity.
I always ask guys who are interested in stuff like this
to come, but like I wanna do a show
where we do talk about the undesigned coincidences
because there are people who are non-believers
that are still using a methodology,
what I like to call a harmonization methodology,
and I'm not certain they should,
because a lot of these people who have deconstructed
may not have read some critical scholars
who take a book at a time, they look at authors,
and then even within some of those books,
how there's different authors
that helped compile some things,
things like that, they don't even look at that.
What they do is they read a passage in Matthew 24,
they run the Luke, they jump over to John,
they read from Acts, they go to 1 John,
they jump to Revelation, and it's like,
do you, they think all 27 are organically developed together
as a unified message that was purposely played,
almost like divinely done,
or like 27 of these guys sat together,
really what in 27,
because Paul wrote at least seven of them.
But you know what I mean,
like there was this big huddle, everybody huddle up.
All right, so here in this passage, I'm gonna write,
like it's almost like they developed
this perfect system and flow of story,
and they don't look at stuff like
Acts is trying to cover up possible issues
in the early church, or that it's copying
from the Euripides and the Bacchai,
and like different elements that,
I don't know, that critical scholarships come in.
Love to have you here.
This is very unfortunate,
because when people do that,
and obviously the most extreme examples
would be like very fundamentalist Christians,
who just thinks these are like reports by eyewitnesses, right?
I heard a guy recently who thought that Acts
was written specifically as like a legal document
for Paul's trial in Rome before the emperor, right?
So like, what do you say to that even?
Like if you have this kind of mindset,
you are missing on so much in that literature,
like because I do generally think,
even though I've been an atheist my whole life,
that the New Testament is fascinating,
like a lot of other pieces of ancient
Greco-Roman literature is,
but if you have this kind of approach,
you are missing out on so much value, artistic value,
and like intellectual value that's in it, right?
Because like, if you actually think
about the New Testament in terms of
what I personally think a lot of people agree,
it actually is like, you know, different authors
adapting existing stories different ways
because they have different points of view
and they want to communicate a different message.
It's such a rich tapestry and you can like,
look at like so many different interesting aspects of it,
that just don't exist even, it's not even on the table.
If you, for example, think that these are like
reports by eyewitnesses or anything like that.
I think even like in critical scholars
who are obsessed with the idea that there is
a historical core in the text
and you have to kind of sift through it
and discover the golden nuggets
of things that actually existed,
are also missing out on that, right?
Like because I think, you know, it's a literary creation,
it's based on, it's a retelling of a different spin
on an existing story.
It's like a movie version of a superhero
comic book, right?
It's the same material but told differently.
And so like if you think about it that way,
it's much more fascinating.
I don't blame you one bit for putting your energy
towards the counter apologetic.
I would too, honestly, because you and Carrier,
as much as you have your differences,
you guys have a lot in common, a lot in common.
And I think you're both trying to fight the same fight
in terms of trying to show, hey, look,
this literature is not what you think.
You have totally different conclusions on some things,
but at the end of the day, I think your bigger fight
would be, and it would be better
to go with the counter apologetics.
And I've been seeing your graphs
and the things that you present and man,
I think for me, getting people to see the light
is that deconstructing and coming to where we are today
and starting to realize this as literature
and not being so fundamentalist that God's speaking to me
in my mind and telling me to do things,
well, God told me to do, or some people go to that extreme
and they hurt people or they don't take science into effect.
I mean, we're seeing it today.
And I'm not trying to throw this out there.
I guess I'm gonna say it anyways,
but there are people who are absolutely against
any type of vaccination, okay?
A lot of that is religiously motivated.
I'm not talking about people who are not.
You have your opinion, that's fine,
but there's religious motivation behind a lot of things
that I guess when you start to come into the 21st century,
you kind of go, that's archaic.
It's time to start to come out of that.
And I think it'd make us better humans.
What do you think?
Yeah, well, I mean, it's important to say
that I'm not like primarily motivated
in combating religion,
like for example, I happened to be born in a country
that has been measured as the least religious
in the world consistently.
So like my entire family, including for example,
my grandparents were never religious
and it's not like usual here.
So I, for example, never had the,
I never had to go through the process of discovering
that one of the core aspects of my identity
that I've believed for like years
isn't true.
So I was never like frustrated with that.
I never had the feeling, for example,
that other people deceived me about that,
which is something that people who came from,
especially like a fundamentalist branches of Christianity,
very often say, right?
Like they acknowledge intellectually
that for example, their pastors don't know
any better themselves,
but they still feel like they were lied to essentially.
So I didn't go through that.
And the reason why I do this,
first of all is because it's fun
and I'm weird like that.
And the second reason is I think it's very important
for people to have like a solid epistemology.
And yeah, if you have a good epistemology,
I think you will deconvert away from Christianity
as a byproduct, right?
So it's not really the goal.
It's just something that happens as a result.
And yeah, if you are like different Christians
draw the line differently,
but it's very often the case
then in order for you to stay in the religion,
especially in some of its more extreme versions,
you have to habitually deny like objective empirical reality.
And if you train yourself essentially to do that
or other people train it in you,
then you'll start doing it with other things, right?
And as you mentioned, you know,
there is a lot of the probabilities proportionately,
many anti-vaxxers in, for example,
evangelical Christianity.
There is like political conspiracy theories
that's completely insane right now, right?
And that's specific segment of the US population.
Flat Earth.
Flat Earth is another conspiracy.
Yeah, that's essentially completely
religiously motivated, right?
Like I know some flat artists try to hide it,
but yeah, I mean, if when push comes to shove,
they believe it's satanic deception, right?
I know some people who are non-believers,
who are Flat Earthers.
I'm not even kidding you.
I'm dead serious, but mind you, you know,
they all come from fundamentalist Christianity
as they deconstruct.
I don't know if their epistemology is the same,
but they don't trust science.
They think that NASA's lying.
They're just huge anti-NASA, you know, people.
They don't believe in God,
they don't believe in the devil,
but they recently within the past,
I'd say year and a half, year deconstructed.
And I don't know if they're still doing that or not
in some ways that they're thinking, but yeah.
I don't know, like I came from the,
I was told this was all factual and historically true.
And you mentioned on a show with Doug
that I thought was awesome.
When you were using the undesigned coincidence,
and we got to do a show on this sometime,
I would love for you to bring your charts too.
I understand you've already done it on his show,
but I would love to do another one with me
and go into other examples,
because right now that's a very important thing.
I don't know if you know that Dr. Carrier
also wrote a response and-
Of course, I am his patron, by the way.
So I get all of the stuff in my feet.
Yeah, I think it was a very nice take down.
There is a couple of things how you can approach it.
And he did what I think should be done.
He's very well qualified to do that,
which is just going through the individual examples
and showing why this is not valid
within the context of New Testament scholarship.
But what I was, like the different idea that I had in mind
is actually finding undesigned coincidences,
like using the exact same strategy
that Christian apologists are using
when it comes to the Bible,
and actually showing that you can find
undesigned coincidences in other ancient myths,
Greek myths, for example.
We have some myths, for example,
about Elettra and Orestes
that exist in several different versions.
So you can compare them.
There are, of course, differences.
And what do you know?
You can always harmonize the contradictions
and you can always find undesigned coincidences.
And this is something, for example,
that people did with the Bible code as well, right?
So at some point in the past,
there was this craze about the fact
that if you take the Bible, the Old Testament in Hebrew,
and you arrange the Hebrew letters in a certain way,
it suddenly starts spilling out meaningful strings
of sentences, and it's like talking about JFK assassinations
and stuff like that.
And people thought that this is deliberate
and they didn't understand
that if you have a large dataset,
you are statistically determined
to start getting meaningful,
like apparently meaningful data points,
just by pure coincidence, right?
Like it's, it would be actually weird if it wasn't there.
But a very effective point,
how to show it to laypeople,
is to take a different, very large body of literature.
I think it was done with War and Peace by Tolstoy in Hebrew,
and they just showed that the same Bible code
is there as well, right?
So it's like kind of like an argument to an absurdum.
So yeah, I haven't done it very extensively.
I might dedicate some time to it.
And when I have a couple of examples,
that would be interesting.
You know what's great?
You plugged the Discord server at the beginning.
So of course, the people on the Discord server
watched those conversations as well.
And they actually started giving me examples themselves.
Because if you start thinking as a Christian apologist,
then yeah, you will start finding
these undesigned coincidences elsewhere.
They came up with undesigned coincidences in Star Wars.
They came up with undesigned coincidences
between the New Testament and New Testament Apocrypha,
which is super spicy because of course,
Christian apologists don't think
the Apocrypha is strictly reliable.
So I think that's an alternative way
how to talk about this.
Yeah, you actually mentioned that and said,
well, if they're going to concede,
then they might as well start conceding
that the miracles and other religious stories are true
as well.
And you made the point.
That's a logical conclusion.
And when I started to deconstruct what I did,
my approach to deconstruction was different
than some of the people I've talked to.
I started seeing that Jesus was very much,
at least the gospel narratives were fictional
and they looked a lot like other stories.
That's what helped me deconstruct
and it made me start to go, okay,
so am I saying that Osiris and the other deities
that are similar in many ways, not identical,
I'm just saying there are similarities
to their dying and there's rising
and there's miraculous claims, et cetera,
is my Jesus special?
Is this the one and only?
And that was, it took me a year at least
to try and get through saying, okay, Hercules and Samson,
for example, they're so similar.
There's so many things that overlap.
This character, Samson, the strongest man
who ever lived in Hercules, the strongest man,
I started to see that my Bible was also similar
to other stories and in Christians,
the apologetics, of course, will say,
but the Bible's the oldest version
and all the others copied from it
and it's like, that's some measures of apologetics.
The other ones are what the early church fathers
tried to argue that Satan knew that the story
or that Jesus was coming
or that God was sending his son, et cetera,
so he made these counterfeits and I mean, come on,
there's so many different things, but that was my path.
And I think, I must admit,
I think that's when I got into mythicism
because it's easy to go from my Jesus is concrete
and 100% accurate to, oh man,
I found so many problems right off the bat
that I went to the opposite spectrum
and I went to complete far fiction
and said, this guy's completely fictional
and now I'm beginning in my journey
to try and find any historical reliable things
and put the pieces back together.
So I went to the far end
and now I personally am heading back towards, okay,
there was a temple's destruction, all right?
Josephus describes, I started getting into more,
if that makes sense, you know?
Yeah, absolutely.
I think this is a, like okay approach, right?
And the funny thing is, like if Christianity is,
if the metaphysics of Christianity isn't actually true,
then this is like so what you would expect, right?
Like you would expect it to be a product of its own time
and the circumstances in which it emerged, right?
This is what we are seeing.
Of course, it's different because every religious system,
every system of ideas is unique,
but it's of course like fits into its specific environment.
You can see, like Christians can see it,
I think, usually pretty well with other religions, right?
Not many people actually know
that when Joseph Smith came up with the book of Mormon,
it was already widespread,
the idea that the Mesoamerican civilizations
were actually Jewish and they were descendants
of Jews who came to Americas.
It was a lost stripe of Israel from the Middle East
at some point in the ancient past.
And there was even a lot of different ideas
about like historical records being written on golden plates.
And what do you know?
There is a guy who comes up with this kind of story, right?
So yeah, Christians usually can see how
you would expect Mormonism to look like that
if it wasn't actually true.
I kind of see it with Christianity as well.
The problem is that Christians usually don't know
that much about ancient history in general,
like particularly ancient Jewish and Greco-Roman history
outside the Bible, right?
Like they wouldn't, for example,
read other ancient literature like Greek Roman
of the time to notice those kind of similarities.
Yeah.
Yeah, you bring up really good points.
And like I said, and like he said,
there is a discord group where they hang out
and they talk about these things
and they're opened ideas.
You guys can share them.
They'll try and steer you in the right direction
with their research.
I'm very appreciative that you came on
to share your information
and what you think about some of these things
and prior probability.
So if you guys check out the book, of course,
and you see what Kerry has written,
you can understand where Camille's coming from
and why he starts with a different prior probability,
which will come to a different conclusion.
And then, of course, there's the details,
like the differences in arguments into the actual details,
which we didn't have time and won't have time.
It would take an entire program, probably,
two hours easy to go into details and why and...
You can do an entire show
about every individual piece of evidence.
And I have to admit, right off the bat,
that I'm not even qualified to talk about a lot of the stuff.
So I kind of have to take a career on his word.
Because I am not that qualified, but yeah.
Well, I really do appreciate you coming on.
The show is evolving,
and you're one of the reasons to help this show
go in the direction that I'm trying to head,
and that's opening up.
I'm even challenging in having debates on this channel.
I'm trying to bring it into more mainstream as well,
not just ideas that don't make mainstream.
So I really do appreciate you coming on
and sharing your information.
Like I said, everybody, Doug from Pine Creek.
Go subscribe to his channel.
You'll see Camille, you'll see Cam, and Doug himself.
He gives Pine Creek points to anybody who gets there first.
And I like his show, man.
He's entertaining,
and he just takes you through the mind of a Christian.
And pause, did you guys catch that?
You know, like he talks with you through it like,
no, where did he come up with this?
You know, it's really fun.
So please show them some love.
Just to give everybody who's watching this a little tip,
if you like the videos, if you comment on the videos,
and if you, of course, subscribe to the channels and stuff,
and watch the whole video through,
YouTube promotes that content.
So if you're a fan of Doug's channel, watch his videos.
Well, I don't have time.
I only have 10 minutes, and he's gonna go for two hours.
Play it incognito, or play it on your phone,
turn the volume down.
It helps this type of content grow,
and you'd be surprised.
I mean, before you know it,
these channels will get this content out there,
because that's what we wanna do,
is try to help the world become a better place,
and to leave, at least leave fundamentalism alone.
You know, because you can't,
once you challenge this stuff,
and you see it in your head,
there's no way to keep to the fundamentalist approach.
It just doesn't work.
So do you have anything you'd like to say to the audience?
Yeah, just one last thing I'm gonna say,
if you ever want to have a debate
about Jesus' historicity, then I'm game.
Okay, awesome.
Yeah, I'm not the guy to debate you, okay?
I'm not-
Sure, no, yeah, I understand that, yeah.
But if you can't find anyone
who would be willing to defend historicity,
then I would, I think it would be fun.
Of course, like if it was,
I, hypothetically, against Carrier,
I would have to read his books.
Right.
I don't want to do that.
I've read them like,
historicity like three times,
growing history probably twice.
I have like zero time, unfortunately,
to do something like that.
But we'll see, you know.
Well, thank you for being respectful
in your approach on the criticisms
that you do bring to the table,
because too often I see, you know,
people throw dung or it comes across a little abrasive.
Instead, what you've done is,
you've presented valid points on why you disagree.
And I do appreciate the respect,
because that's one thing that a lot of people don't have,
is have a cordial discussion on topics they disagree on.
And you did really, really good on that.
And thank you so much for that.
Also, I don't know if I could,
I'll talk to Dr. Price.
He would be the only guy,
and I don't even know if he debates anymore.
But Dr. Price, you know.
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
Yeah, because he's, you know,
he's not the youngest.
Maybe got less engineer, right?
He's kind of profiling himself on mythicism,
at least initially, you know.
We'll see.
Yeah, I wouldn't mind hosting it.
I can tell you that.
And if it gets out of control,
I'll hit that mute button.
Okay.
But thank you, man,
and send my best regards to Doug and Cam.
And thank you guys for what you're doing.
I hope to get you back on.
We can talk about some of these
undesigned coincidences
and other materials that you have.
So when you get a YouTube channel growing,
let me know.
I'll put that down in the description.
And you guys make sure you show them some love.
If you guys see any more material come from them,
help them out.
Thanks a lot, brother.
Thank you.
Bye.
Yep.
And guys, don't forget,
we are MythVision.
