We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
On the host, Derek Lambert, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to be diving deep.
Dr. Robert G. Hoylund is joining me today and we're going to talk about sources that
were not, that are not from Islam or Muslims.
These are sources as others saw the early stages of Islam and the Prophet Muhammad.
So we're going to be discussing that and maybe briefly the other book, which I'd like to
take a deeper dive on in God's path.
And I'm going to tell you right now, ladies and gentlemen, please.
You're going to want to go get the books.
These books are fantastic, especially if you want to understand what, what does both sides
of the coins say?
You know, you never want to just take the word for one side.
You always want to investigate.
Look at the other side just to hear what they have to say.
They could be wrong.
You never know.
In God's path is unaudible.
I listened to the whole book driving to Texas and highly recommend listening to that.
If you want to get a familiarity with the period at a hand, I mean, like literally the
whole period.
And it was a, let's just be honest, a bloodbath.
I mean, everybody was at everybody's throats for power and control, but it's really interesting
watching how that happened.
Also Arabia and the Arabs.
I got this book on Amazon and I thought I bought it, but I rented it.
Then I got this email saying, are you ready to return your book?
No, I'm not returning this book.
I thought I bought it.
I had to buy it again.
So welcome to MythFish and podcast, Dr. Hoylan.
I really appreciate you taking your time out to join us.
Great to be here, Derek.
Thank you.
If I may, especially since you're new to the channel, let me give a short introduction
to who you are and why you matter in this, in this particular subject.
So Dr. Hoylan is a scholar and historian specializing in medieval history of the Middle East.
He's a former student of historian Patricia Crone and I wish she was still with us because
I would love to interview her.
I'm not sure if I pronounce this right.
Leverholm, fellow at Pemberham College?
Yeah, Leverholm, yeah.
Leverholm.
Awesome.
At Pemberham College, Oxford, he is currently a professor at Late Antique and early Islamic
Middle Eastern history at New York University's Institute for the Study of the Ancient World.
Are you currently still the professor?
Yeah.
That's my job, yeah.
Awesome.
Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you by Central Park in the Metropolitan Museum, so yeah.
Excellent.
Having previously been professor of Islamic history at the University of Oxford Facility
of Oriental Studies and a professor of history at the University of St. Andrews and UCLA,
he has many books, many books.
I highly recommend go to Amazon down in the description.
You can go there yourself if you want.
Just type in his name, Robert G. Hoyland.
You'll find a lot of books on the subject matter that you want to look into here on early Islamic
traditions, and there's a real, real, how do I put this?
What's really piqued my interest is that you have a tradition and then you have other sources
that don't line up with this tradition.
So let's start off basic, if I may.
What made you interested in getting into any of this at all, right?
We're Westerners.
Why are we interested in Middle Eastern studies of Islam and Muhammad, the whole
nine?
So I could go a few directions with that because I did have, as you mentioned, a very inspiring
teacher, Patricia Krohner, who, yeah, she was an amazing woman, really inspirational.
So I did want to study with her.
And she and her colleague, Michael Cook, wrote this fascinating book, Hagarism,
an alternative vision of Islamic history.
And it is fascinating.
You're kind of led into this different world, which is really very different
from what you're told from the Muslim sources.
So I did want to look into that further.
Is this real?
Is this true?
Can we verify any of this?
So that was definitely one exciting bit, the kind of puzzle-like dimension to this question.
But it is also in terms of history.
It's an amazing period of transformation you've had for about 1,100 years.
You had the Roman Empire, Greek, Romans, and then the Persians on the other side.
And it's amazing, really, 1,100 years of history at the long time.
And yet it gets sucked away by the Arab conquest.
The Persian Empire just disappears and the Roman Empire loses all its
Near Eastern Mediterranean provinces.
So it is an amazing period of transformation that you move forward about a century.
And you've got a very different sort of world.
You see Baghdad, this great capital pop up and it's the center of a new empire
that goes from Morocco to Afghanistan.
It's a hell of a journey, even nowadays, a little aim for people just marching across it.
So that double kind of whammy, if you like, was what propelled me on this study.
Wow. Yeah, for me, it's the interest of Abrahamic faiths.
For me in particular, it was and I'm just relating, having this conversation,
as we're going to probe into more content in your book.
For me, it was just getting into
how the Abrahamic tradition develops and over periods under different circumstances
in different cultures.
That that's something that really drew my attention and coming out of the faith
that I was in a more extreme form of it.
It's piqued my interest that I didn't really understand a lot of this.
And there's much more to to it than what meets the eye.
That's what caught my attention and fascinates me.
So now I'm looking into Islam and I said, you got to go to the
to the critical scholars and to the to the experts in the field
who are not necessarily pushing an agenda and want you to see things
necessarily the way they want you to, but try to be as balanced and nuanced as possible.
So I have you and I would be interested in getting into some of these questions
if that's OK with you.
Yeah, excellent. All right.
So we're going to bring up a visuals for those who are watching.
Pause the video at the visuals.
If you want to like spend a little extra time observing the the visuals that I created,
these are the actual images of some of these manuscripts
that are being mentioned that are sources from non-Muslims.
So you're going to hear the other side of the coin on the earliest if we can go to data.
Before I do, I need to ask the material we're going to get into.
That's non-Muslim sources.
Does this material date far earlier than the earliest copies of Islamic material
that we have that's trying to paint the history of from Muhammad
and right after the Prophet, etc.
So like, I guess the best way I'm putting it is if we had non-Christian sources
trying to account about Jesus and then we had Christian sources,
let's say, date to the late second century, the earliest we have as late second century.
But we found, let's say, late first century non-Christian sources.
Is that kind of a picture that's being painted here for non-Muslim sources and Muslim sources?
Yeah, there's always a slight mismatch here between.
So one of some of the sources we're looking at, they definitely
the author existed at a very early time, you know, some of them from only a couple of years after Muhammad.
But the actual manuscripts, of course, what tends to happen is
so he might write something or she, that gets copied and copied.
And so we might only have relatively late.
It always surprises people to know that when they think they're reading Aristotle,
they're reading copies of copies.
And sometimes it's like a lot of the copies of Aristotle from 121300 AD.
Wow, 1700 years after he's alive.
So you could be, of course, the copyist to make the state introduce typos,
things like that. So there is that slight discrepancy.
But yeah, the actual authors that we're talking about are certainly from very early,
just from the time of Muhammad and a few years later.
Whereas the Muslim sources we have, the authors are only from the ninth century
at the earliest.
But some of the manuscripts we have are very early.
The earliest one we have is from the eight twenties, essentially.
But it is still 200 years after Muhammad.
Right, right.
So definitely the non-Muslim sources are allowing us to dive down and get nearer.
But obviously you can't then get into the fallacy that all early sources are true
and all late sources are false. That isn't the case.
And you're also talking about a perspective.
So we do actually have early non-Christian sources about Jesus.
But, you know, the pagan Roman authors.
But for them, he's just guys talking about stuff
that seems a bit weird and wonderful and putting a lot of problems,
making people rebel against the gunman and things.
So, you know, he's a troublemaker, if I haven't said.
You know, that is a hell of a difference in perspective.
And you can say which is right or wrong, but that is difficult.
You sometimes have to accept that there are different perspectives on the same event.
Anybody who works in car insurance kind of knows that.
When you get two people saying what happened in a car accident,
you might think, wow, they were in different crashes.
Yeah, that is a great point perspective,
I think is going to be the subjective tool for everybody at this point,
because it's the same problem I have when I I did a series on Joseph Smith,
for example, just to get because I love getting into figures in history that
and everyone goes, he's a con man.
You know, people who don't that aren't Mormons that don't believe he's a con man,
right? That's how they they view him.
The other side says he was the prophet.
And so when you get into this study, I don't know.
I start to empathize.
I start to very reading.
I don't think he was like, I think he believed in his own stuff.
So whether you think he was dishonest or whatever,
I think you really believe in this stuff.
So getting into it and trying to weigh out the evidence like,
you got to put on the shoes.
It's hard in the 21st century for us to imagine what life was like
and how they would view the world around them in those times.
So there's so many things I ask our audience to consider
when you look into these.
Don't just be a critic and not like, try, try to understand.
Yes, we don't want to repeat some of these things in history,
but try to understand this is history.
So, Dr.
if I may, let's go to the first example and the first example I have
right here is a fragment of the Arab conquest.
This fragment dates to 636 A.D.
According to and I'm just going to read this out, Professor,
can you tell us about the fragment of the Arab conquest manuscript?
What language is it written? Who wrote it?
What's written on it, etc.
This manuscript is written in 636 A.D.
And in Muslim sources, Muhammad, the prophet, died in 632 A.D.
Is there some mistake made somewhere
as if we go by these dates, then it seems as if Muhammad was alive.
So is there any way you can elaborate on that for me?
Yeah, I mean, one thing I always tell my students is make sure you get the back story.
It's like a news item.
It sounds crazy, isn't it?
But then maybe if you read around and try and get the broader context,
you know, it becomes something quite different.
And this text is rather unusual because actually
the actual manuscript as a whole is a copy of the Gospel.
And it's it's very early.
It's like late sixth century.
But then just on the front page, it's almost like, you know,
you're going to buy an old book and it's got like a couple of blank pages either side.
So this is like that.
It partly just protected the ink.
But someone has written this account.
It's in Syriac, which is an old Christian language.
It's a dialect of Aramaic, which Jesus would have spoken.
And in fact, it's really ancient.
It goes back a thousand years before Jesus.
So it's at the time in the sixth century.
It's one of the main languages of the Middle East.
And someone's written this account 636 AD is to be honest, a slight guess.
But what it describes is a battle between, it says, the Arabs of Muhammad
and the Romans, somewhere in the between modern day.
A Golan area, so between Damascus and northern Israel, if you like,
somewhere around there, there's a couple of battles it could be.
So to be honest, if this could be anywhere between 634 and 636.
But it is really early.
But we can't quite tell what's going on if you pull it up and show them again.
Even if you've got little holes in it, pieces.
So it's a little bit tricky to be 100 percent sure what's going on.
But that's 100 percent sure.
It's a battle between the Arabs of Muhammad and the Romans.
It's around 634 to 636 because the Muslims or the Arabs of Muhammad
anyway are still I think this little red this red circle
here is the name Muhammad, I believe.
Yeah. Yeah.
So that occurs twice in that little passage.
Interesting.
It's I don't know if you want me to go into what it's used as yet.
But the theory that modern scholars like to use it for.
But anyway, that's the point.
It's just but it's just a note.
It's not that there's a whole book here on the Arab conquest.
The main text is all about the the gospel, just somebody's copied it out.
And this is just a little note on the front cover or the inside of the front.
You could think that maybe someone's in a monastery
near where the battle happened.
So this guy has written a little note about it.
Interesting.
Because I guess this we're going to be revisiting this question
about when Muhammad might be still alive or dead.
And that that comes up again as we continue to try and figure out
like what we're trying to figure out historically, like what really happened.
Right. And it's tough to know from both sources.
So we'll we'll jump into another source, if that's OK with you.
Thomas the Presbyter.
And from what I understand, Thomas the Presbyter was written around 640 AD.
Can you tell us about the Thomas the Presbyter manuscript?
What language is it written in?
What is written on it?
If this manuscript is written in 640 AD, is there some mistake made
somewhere as if we go by these dates, then it seems as if Muhammad is alive.
If we take the locations of where these battles happen and they are clearly
outside Saudi Arabia, as according to like Muslim biographies,
he never left Saudi Arabia.
Has there been some mistake made or would you think that some of those
biographies might be later?
So they're kind of trying to do something different
as time goes by, like, sorry for continuing.
But when I talk to Dr.
Anthony, right, in his book on the historical Muhammad, I love it.
I absolutely love it because to me, it's like, all right,
we know what a prophet looks like.
Just look at the Bible.
They're all shepherds.
And and so was he a shepherd?
Was he a merchant?
Well, let's divorce him from being a merchant and let's make him a shepherd.
Or maybe there's some truth to both.
And this is what I enjoyed about his book.
So the question becomes like, in this case,
would there be some reason to kind of not have Muhammad
be alive after the time that they make him, you know, where they say he died?
I don't know. There's a lot of questions I have.
So you're getting near into what is
a bigger kind of theory now, which I might have explained a little bit.
So OK, viewers can understand what you're talking about here.
So first, Thomas the Presbyter, so he's an author.
We actually know him.
He's a monk, a monastery in Palestine.
He's writing a chronicle, just so the whole text also in Suriak,
like the previous fragment, but the whole text is a chronicle of the world
going from creation right up until the time he's writing, which is about 640.
He in the later part, he's getting up to events dealing with the rise of Islam.
He doesn't know really how you're going to remember.
This is just a little guy a monk down in a small little place in Southern Palestine.
But he knows with this battle nearby is about 12 miles
east of modern Gaza.
Again, it's between the Arabs and Muhammad and the Romans.
The Romans lose absolute great victory.
Wonderful. But he just notes it down.
It's very exact, actually.
I think I've lived with these for a long time, but I think someone like
the ninth hour of the fourth day of February is really, really specific.
So you get the sense that he does know he's got firsthand knowledge about it.
He doesn't know how to make sense of it.
He doesn't go into any big theories.
He just, again, notes down this event, your local event.
So the Arabs of Muhammad does you could take that as a collective name
for those who follow Muhammad, the prophet, who now is dead or alive.
It's a bit vague Arabs and Muhammad.
But let me say one way you could run with it.
And this is the way Patricia Kroner, my supervisor, ran with it
in her book with Michael Cook on Hagarism.
They seem to be heading, so they're in Palestine, they're heading for Jerusalem.
So her idea is that Muhammad's original idea was to capture Jerusalem.
It wasn't about broad conquests.
And the reason for that is because of the apocalyptic worldview.
There had just been this 25 year, huge battle between the Romans and the Persians.
A lot of people dying, huge amounts of battles.
It's an apocalyptic kind of scene, if you like.
It's a crazy times.
And Jerusalem had been captured by the Persians and it gets retaken.
The Romans conquer Iran, they bring back the Holy Cross,
which had been stolen by the Persians, bring the emperor of the Romans,
comes down to Jerusalem, puts the cross back on Mount Golgotha.
You know, it's crazy times.
So is Muhammad leading an apocalyptic movement?
He wants to capture Jerusalem.
So he's there ready in the place where Jesus is going to return for the second coming.
So this idea is they do in collaboration with the Jews.
So it's a Jewish Muslim kind of joint ideology about the end of the world.
And for us, this is a bit difficult to get into, but you have to remember,
there's a lot of people who when they're talking about the second coming of Christ,
it's not some vague notion that is going to happen, you know,
maybe as soon as our lifetimes and it's particularly when massive events like this
have happened, like a big confrontation between superpowers
that people get very worked up about it.
So that's the kind of atmosphere and it's an interesting idea.
There's about another academic, Steven Schumacher,
who you might want to interview on this as well.
He read a book called Death of the Prophet and he takes up these references.
There's about 11 of them, which all point to the idea of two things.
One, Muhammad being alive later than the traditional death date of 632
and two, of going outside Arabia into Palestine.
The problem is all these references, you could, if you want to be very skeptical,
say they're not, no one just says, hey, Muhammad's in Jerusalem,
you know, five o'clock, six thirty four in February.
None of that explicit.
It's like this, the Arabs, Muhammad of attack the Romans in six thirty four.
Does that mean he's alive or are they just known as the Arabs of man?
Right. Sounds vague.
So it's not a hundred percent.
The idea is fascinating.
It's one of the problems we have more broadly of historians is explaining change.
It's easy to describe events in a general way,
but thinking what's causing these changes that we can see around us.
And that's I mean, it's still not easy today.
Sometimes you're explaining big events.
One of the one possible driver of quite a few events is apocalypticism.
I mean, some people use it to explain Jesus as well.
He's fueled by an idea.
You know, he says at one point about how we know about the end of time.
It's going to be these battles and playing and famine.
And people are asking when they're going to happen and say just a little bit now,
not long now telling us that it's a near thing.
So that's a and it's a big motivating factor.
We still have been out, you know, in recent times, people of small groups,
cults, we always say, because we find them a bit odd that people
who think that the end of the world was coming and they've all committed
mass suicide because they think, you know, that's the end of the world.
All done various things in the expectation of the world's back to end.
So it can be a major motivation.
Wow, yeah. That's what underlies.
It's funny, this tiny little account, a couple, a few others,
of what make up our backing for a kind of big theory of what motivates
the whole rise of Islam.
It's a lot of weight to place on these sources, but it is a fascinating theory.
It makes a lot of sense to me from what I've heard.
You know, there seems to be some elements that even the Prophet Muhammad
would say things like he believed that that it was going to end soon.
Very apocalyptic type phrases that they've put in the mouth of the Prophet.
So and that's something I'm fascinated with.
Apocalypticism is a huge thing of mine interested in in Second Temple Judaism,
of course, in Christianity.
I've been talking to scholars about that endlessly.
So I really want to dig, at some point, deeper into apocalypticism
and early Islam and how, you know, it seems like it's also still continued.
It's still an idea that always will continue till time ends.
But the same thing we see with Christianity.
So this goes into possible theories of cognitive dissonance
and other such hypotheses that I think are very interesting to dive into.
Thank you for commenting on that.
We'll get into another one of these.
And I love this one right here.
This one's so much fun.
So the Doctrina Jacobi, if I could use the term 10th century Greek text,
talking about 634 to 640 A.D. or something like that.
Can you tell us about this text?
What language, you know, is it in?
Is it in Greek for sure?
What does it say on the text?
And there's a line just to give you an emphasis.
There is a line in the Doctrina Jacobi, if you will, Jacob, that says,
And I, Abraham, thoroughly investigating, heard from those who met him,
Mohammed, where exactly is this location where Mohammed was, if you don't mind me asking.
So I don't know if you know that phrase by heart.
Yeah, I mean, you're right.
This is, again, another fascinating text.
There's a much more substantial one. Yes, it's in Greek.
I mean, many of you get the classic Christian text against the Jews.
It's a whole genre, Christian writings against Jews.
And they don't often stage it in a way that there's a Christian and a Jewish
speaking and arguing with each other.
And the Christian is made to show that Christianity is the true faith and Judaism is wrong.
It's a popular form of literature.
It's really done for the folks back home, as you would say, America is not.
It's a home audience showing, hey, look how great we are.
We've got the true faith, not the Jews.
But in this, it has a rather fascinating little piece about the essence of Abraham.
And he's heard reports, it says, about the prophet
of the Saracens coming with the Jews.
So this seems to confirm this point that there was a collusion
between Mohammed and his followers and the Jews.
This guy is made to check.
Well, as you say, check it out.
And he's told that he says, the prophet, I must add at this stage,
it says the prophet coming with the prophet of the Saracens.
It does not say Mohammed at this point.
I mean, in 634, you could say, who else could it be?
But often the problem for us is that we have only a tiny,
tiny proportion of sources written at the time.
So we only have a small view, a very pinpoint sort of view.
And it may be that other bigger things are going on.
But anyway, that's so that's one little problem there.
But equally, you know, there are lots of reports about Mohammed
from these 1930s, so it makes sense to think that this must be who is intended.
If it is the prophet, if it is Mohammed, let's say,
doesn't that like kind of throw a wrench in that Mohammed died in 632 in a way?
Yeah, so it's one of another one of these sources that just
it's not 100 percent because he doesn't say 100 percent that he's alive.
But it gives the impression that he's talking about someone alive.
I mean, again, you have to bear in mind this is a world in which, you know,
there's not CNN news, so you know, there's not breaking news.
Mohammed just died, people.
Sorry, forget that one.
So, you know, he's a few hundred miles away, operating Mohammed in theory.
But that's just to put it out that there's not 100 percent.
He does not say, Mohammed, you know, this guy is this prophet.
He's called Mohammed. He doesn't say that.
And he doesn't say he's definitely alive now,
and he's definitely heading for Jerusalem to capture it.
But nevertheless, with these sources, there's about 11 of them
giving this impression that one Mohammed alive later than 632 that he's operating in Palestine.
And then there seems to be a certain connecting with a kind of apocalyptic motivation.
So there's an implication there.
I'm going to go out on a complete speculative guess type thing
to just throw at you to get your thoughts on.
Because the development of any religion that starts to develop,
it takes on early stages seem to be, and I just say seem to be,
using my knowledge of biblical studies with Christianity,
far more different than what you would expect once it's orthodoxed.
So once you look at it as orthodox, you're like, okay, hold on.
There were people who say that the Judean God was evil,
and there was a God above that God.
Like, I'm giving you analogies, but imagine,
and I just throw this out there, is there anyone out there that's serious
that actually hypothesized that Mohammed wasn't the last prophet,
but that the caliph might be in the place kind of like filling in.
Like, I put the shoes of the prophet on,
and so they now are representatives of the prophet.
I didn't know because this gets later into the new
mathematics that we're going to get into about the standing caliph who's holding a sword.
Like, this guy is the new representative of God on earth.
Hard for me to know if early Islam had the caliphs or the leader
of whatever it might be at the time as a representative of the prophet
or is it possible that, and we'll get to that image, I'm sure,
that that is the prophet, an image of the prophet.
And I don't know, it's a good question to ask, but
does anyone serious in scholarship think that?
So that may be easy to wait till you've got the coin there,
because that's a totally sure way you're going about that,
but the more general point of it's almost inevitable that what's
the ideology of the early decades
during and just after Muhammad's lifetime, this can be radically different.
Yeah, the transition of authority, which is the kind of bigger picture
of what you're aiming at from prophet Caliph,
is intriguing and what a caliph actually is.
The reason I said, wait for the coins, I'm not totally sure now,
is whether you talk about the representation,
what do we actually see on the coin,
or the separate question of how has the transfer of authority worked
from Muhammad itself to his followers?
Because that's always a tricky time, of course.
It's the same with Jesus dying, what do we do now?
And you've had this very charismatic leader, and they haven't,
especially if they've got an apocalyptic kind of bent to them,
because they're not expecting there to be any continuity.
You know, this is the end of the world about to happen.
Why do I need to suggest to someone to succeed me?
There's not going to be any succession.
That's a great point.
Yeah, I read that book, Leslie Hazelton.
She's no scholar, but she's fun to listen to,
especially someone new into the subject matter,
after the prophet, the Shi'i Sunni split,
and seeing how the Shi'i look at the four caliph,
and they see Ali, is like the final, this is our guy,
and then you have the Sunni say, no, no, no, it's the community.
There's this huge divide even to this day,
and it's kind of sad, honestly, but it is what it is.
You can't help it.
I say that to say like, I wonder if there's also
a divergent view of the caliph filling in,
because now that the prophet's gone,
the leader is this prophet figure still,
but that gets stamped out, and they say, no, no, no.
This kind of like some Christian movement say,
hey, those gifts of speaking in tongues and all this stuff,
that's ceased.
That's stuff that only the Lord and his apostles did,
and other people are still practicing it today.
So it makes me wonder what we may or may not know.
It's just a big question.
That's awesome.
Yeah, no, you're 100% right.
And the first Arab civil war, which is,
starts already around 656, it definitely,
it's difficult for us to follow,
but it is definitely about what should happen next.
What sort of leader are we expecting?
Who should lead us now?
We're talking about someone who's getting control
of these vast resources that are being accumulated.
Huge amounts of booty being captured.
So there's a lot of people rubbing their hands in there.
It could be one of the people that do that.
Yeah, I noticed that.
It was, I think, the third caliph that was really
about power and money.
And I think, if I'm not mistaken, not saying all men,
and we're human, but I'm saying one of them,
from what I understood, and I could be wrong,
was, and it wasn't Abubakar, I don't think.
And it wasn't, I can't remember.
You would know better than I would,
but they were more about political power
and money, of course.
Even supposedly, I think he's...
The tricky thing is what drives these.
Because rather interestingly,
each of these characters, Abubakar,
is like the rather prudent, cautious one now.
Omar is this like the, you know,
rat in a bit, you know, cuff the guy's head
before he's questioned him, you know,
ooh, he's a bit hasty, but his heart's in the right place.
And then Osmania is meant to be the one who's much more
interested in money and power.
But where these characterizations come from?
I mean, we're reading them 200 years later.
Do they ultimately all go back to a real character
that's there and that's still shone through?
Or is it really our arguments that have happened
over those two centuries?
It is really difficult to know that.
Because unfortunately, for the caliphs,
we really don't have any other contemporary way in.
The Christians and Jews don't really seem to notice
these leaders.
It's only with Mawir and Damascus.
I mean, it's possibly partly because they're deep down in Arabia,
where, you know, non-Muslims aren't going.
And it's only once they get to Damascus,
which is obviously a major settled center of power
that they take notice.
And that's why it's Mawir in Damascus
that everyone notices, but not what's going on before that.
Wow, I didn't know that.
Thank you.
All right.
Next example, is it the Zouknan Chronicle?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
This is an interesting one I was popping up here.
If I may, can you tell us about this Chronicle?
Was Muhammad with them during the conquest
mentioned in the Chronicle, right?
So these are repetitive.
It seems there seems to be a theme, potentially,
in my questions, of course.
Was he there?
Did he try to take over Jerusalem and such?
Please, fill us in on this Chronicle.
What a little bit of background knowledge,
and then what is going on, if you don't mind?
Yeah, so the Zouknan refers to a monastery
just outside modern Diyarbakir.
I was actually there last month.
Beautiful city.
And yeah, just on the north, outside the city walls,
it's this monastery.
He's a monk, this guy, at this monastery.
Writing his Chronicle.
775, that's 100, some odd years later than Muhammad.
But what the way these Chronicles work is
they tend to copy an earlier one
and then just update it for their lifetime.
So this guy is copying earlier material.
That doesn't guarantee it's right or wrong,
but it is, it's going back further.
Again, it's in Syriac.
Again, Syriac Christians are a big,
a dominant proportion of the Christians
in the Middle East in the 7th century.
Those who speak Syriac is their mother tongue.
Again, it's not a total statement
of Muhammad was alive then and doing this at this time,
but it's another nail in the coffin, if you like,
or another quiver to the bow,
adding weight to this argument that Muhammad was alive.
It starts to, then I suppose, lead on to the question,
why does it matter?
Because I imagine all the viewers are thinking,
who cares?
Did he die in 634?
Did he die in 634?
Who cares?
What's the difference?
So the argument for those
Christian-owned, more recently,
Stimus Schumacher for why this matters,
or what they say is happening is later
when the Muslim historians want to move away
from this apocalyptic idea of their origins.
And in the end, it's not just about,
did they forge it or change it?
It doesn't make sense anymore.
Everyone has this, if you get older,
you look back and say,
how was I doing that?
What was I at?
It's easy to make sense because the world changes.
The context is so different that you can't think,
why did I actually ever do that in the first place?
That was a really stupid thing.
So you can imagine that as the world has changed,
whole empire is now there,
and it's got a lot of solidity to it.
The idea of it being founded on a sense
that the world was about to end seems a bit crazy.
So you rework it.
That's what we all do.
You know, some people retain a sense
of what they originally thought,
and just think it's weird.
Some people actually edit out the whole thing,
and they have no contact anymore
with what they originally thought
when they were like a teenager or something.
But yes, I guess you could argue
it's got edited out.
And what they do is they edit it out
by keeping Mohammed in Arabia
and dying before those conquests actually happened.
So they put a cap on it, 632,
and he stays in Arabia to keep it at that.
And then the next guy is the one who leads the conquest.
So the way of cutting off,
one from that apocalyptic dimension,
but also from that Jewish dimension,
that kind of Muslim Jewish sort of ideology.
By the ninth century,
they want to keep it a very full-on Muslim ideology,
and they want it centered on Mecca.
So if the original aim is to capture Jerusalem,
then that's a very different proposal.
You know, it's a very different focus,
whereas they want the focus now
to be very much Mecca and Medina.
That's it, that holy land.
Nothing to do with Palestine or Jerusalem anymore.
So it's a shift in direction.
That's why if I'm wanting to cap the death date,
a geographical movement of Muhammad occurs.
That's what the theory would say.
Yeah, this is a fascinating discussion.
I'm really enjoying these ideas.
None of this is certain.
It's just a great way of trying to consider
like what would be a motivating factor for doing this.
And to me, I always refer back.
I do this with every Islamic scholar
that I talk to or, you know,
Quranic scholar, you name it,
the history of Islam and such.
And I always refer back to what I know,
which is biblical stuff.
And so I say, okay, someone might want to ask,
like, why would they have Jesus appearing to them
in Jerusalem instead of Galilee?
And the first two Gospels,
you know, that we think chronologically occur,
then it goes to Jerusalem.
Well, why then?
Why is he born in Bethlehem?
But at first, he was in Nazareth.
They're trying to fulfill prophecy, probably.
And there's other explanations that can see
fitting these later Gospels into certain narratives.
So with what you're suggesting,
it makes a lot of sense to me that if you want to paint
a narrative where he's not in contact
with sources potentially for influence on the Quran,
which has become a text by the time this is being written
and it's solidified that this is an empire-wide text,
I wonder if critics and polemics have been jabbed.
For example, I'm using Gospel Matthew
and I know I'm jumping around,
but this is what I know.
They put guards at the tomb.
No other Gospel has guards at the tomb.
And he says, well, these people till this day,
the author seems to indicate,
till this day there are people who say, you know,
that he didn't rise from the dead.
So we have guards there protecting,
so no one stole the body.
Don't quit saying that the body was stolen.
We had guards there to protect it.
So there's a polemic to defend it.
And I wonder if that's something that later,
like you're talking about,
safeguarding it, making it only Mecca,
and there will end up allowing them Mecca Medina,
but not the Jerusalem narrative,
if there was a Jerusalem conquest
that he was involved in.
And then another question in that vein,
I know I'm throwing a bunch out there,
but just to get your opinion,
is when they once were turned toward Jerusalem,
and then he says, stop, we're turning this way now,
do you think that might potentially play
a significant role in this whole,
did he die in 632 or later?
Was he alive during this conquest?
Do you think that that turning of which direction
of prayer might play a role
in this whole theme of things we're discussing?
Yeah, it's quite a fascinating point,
because in the biographies of Muhammad,
it just says that the first direction of prayer
was towards Jerusalem, but then Muhammad changed it.
And it's kind of, why was it towards Jerusalem,
for heaven's sake?
You're a long way to the south,
so it's not obvious what the connection was.
So it's, and it's just not explained
in the biographies of Muhammad,
or anywhere, it's just simply, okay, that's how it was,
but then Muhammad changed it.
So it's certainly a kind of quite interesting indicator
of that, since that Judaism in some form
was very important to Muhammad,
and the first followers of Muhammad,
and then all that Jerusalem was significant to them.
It doesn't mean they were Jews,
some people have argued they were Jews,
but it just means that there must have been strong influence.
And then there were quite a few Jewish communities.
We know this actually from inscriptions
that were left, or a few Jewish Aramaic
and Hebrew inscriptions all the way down
the northwest of Saudi Arabia.
So that's certainly a major community,
so there could have been a big influence on Muhammad.
Right. Seems like that.
Dr. Sean Anthony was explaining like these,
I think even most Muslims would agree,
like that there are a lot of legends that come later,
but really interesting, like he's walking,
and then a monk says,
oh, that guy under the tree, look, he's a prophet.
And then you have this Christian monk,
then you have a rabbi, and then you get this pagan,
even though like a pagan supposedly from the land is like,
ah, he's definitely one of the Jews.
And so it's like everybody's like pointing the finger,
and I wonder how much influence from various groups
sit and play a role, maybe.
It's interesting.
I'll give us another example if you want,
unless you want to comment further.
I'm just going to point out that although that part
of Saudi, modern Saudi Arabia,
and it's called the Hejaz, where Muhammad is,
Mecca Medina, it's a fairway south of Palestine,
Syria, you know, the more settled areas.
Nevertheless, this is a trade route going down
from Gaza to Yemen.
So, you know, ideas percolate through,
and there have been long contacts.
I mean, the Romans got as far south as that area,
and had a city, had a place called Medea in Saleh,
so which is fairly near,
such he mentioned in the Quran.
So, you know, it's in contact.
It's not a remote isolated region in the end.
It's still in contact with the rest of the settled world.
So, yeah, Jewish, Christian, pagan ideas,
religious ideas are definitely circulating around
and have an influence.
Thank you, Dr. Hoylan.
All right, another example we have is this fancy,
smancy image here,
and this blue dot that I have highlighted.
I think that's the name Muhammad,
and this was something I think you highlighted.
Yeah, you're a blue dot.
Can you tell us, if you don't mind, about this,
is it Khuzestan?
Yes, Khuzestan is a province in southwest Iran,
which has a fair Christian community.
Again, they're using Syriac as their main language,
and this guy is, again, a monk.
Monks are often the main people writing these chronicles
at the time, and he's written this nice little text
giving its history from around 580 to 660.
Nice little slab of time.
He's probably continuing on from an earlier chronicle.
And it's fascinating in a number of ways,
because he, so we're starting,
the next one you'll get on to,
I think he's going to be Sabayos, isn't it?
Who's the one who does that a lot?
So these two are exact contemporaries,
Sabayos and Khuzestan Chronicle,
both writing about 660.
And a bit more news is percolating through.
So the 630s ones, they just know there was a battle here,
as Muhammad and the Romans, that's all they really know.
660s, there's a bit more news.
Prisoners of war or escapees from war,
going back to their homes and telling people about what's going on.
So we've got a bit more news.
So this guy, he talks about the conquest,
and he says their leader, Davrono, in the Syriac,
it's a fairly neutral term, it was Muhammad.
Say that again, you broke out, I'm sorry.
Say that again.
He says that Muhammad was their leader for the Conquerors.
So the term is Mandabrono in Syriac,
it's a very basic word for just somebody who organizes,
leads something.
But it's interesting, he does appear to suggest,
you could say, well, he's in Southwest Iran,
a hell of a distance away, he doesn't really know,
but he does seem to say that Muhammad led the conquest,
the initial conquest.
He has another really fascinating bit where he actually talks about,
he's getting curious now, the conquests are a bit more substantial now.
They're the Arabs are conquering some fairly large areas of the Middle East,
so he wants to know a bit more.
And one of the things he's been told is that there's a place
where Muhammad comes from, which is connected with Abraham.
And it's kind of interesting because the Kaaba that's in Mecca,
the place to which Muslims pray, he's said by Muslims to be the place
where Abraham and his son Ishmael built the first Kaaba
and where they set up the first prayer.
So it suggests he's getting some information from Muslims themselves,
probably indirectly, via others who've come into contact with them,
served them, served them, serving prisoners of war.
So we're getting a little bit more information now about the conquest,
which gives it a little bit more weight as well.
This just keeps adding weight to what we've been saying about potentially Muhammad being alive
after the time that it's painted, he died.
You know, something came to mind, and I forgot to mention or ask you in particular,
this question, when I interviewed Dr. Sean Anthony in his book,
pertaining to the doctrine of Jacob, if I may, it sounds...
So there's this debate on this section in this document where
there's a statement about Muhammad and they say, oh, he's a person of truth.
We claim to have the keys to paradise.
And most of the scholars from what I think I heard Dr. Anthony write in his book,
or heard read, where he said that they think that this is a jab at the Petrine Christian concept of
why the keys to the kingdom that we see in the Gospels.
But he thinks there might be something more to this about paradise and, you know, Jihad.
And so what are your thoughts?
Where do you stand on the issue?
Because I know that everyone has different issues.
Do you think that this is an early apocalyptic jab?
I mean, I'm going to defer to Sean on this because he's a bigger expert on this particular text.
I tend not to want to put a huge amount of weight on very tiny bits of text.
And what...
And especially it's quite difficult for us to get into the, to build up enough of a picture
for the contemporary Christian and Jewish thinking to understand what lies behind this.
All the point is, are they using Christian vocabulary really to explain a more general
point than Mohammed is saying he knows how to get into paradise?
I mean, and for him to say, doesn't every prophet, Abrahamic prophet say that,
that this is the way to get into paradise.
So it's hardly anything special.
Or is there something very specific about the keys and that you,
he means a very specific way of getting into paradise, like as you said, Jihad.
To my mind, there's no way for us to get always going to be speculation because
there's not enough information there.
But I can see the point and it's an interesting one.
But it's a bit spectacular to my mind.
Yeah. And that's fine.
I appreciate your honest response.
So we're going into the sabios of Bagratunis.
Am I saying that right, Bagratunis?
The sabios of Bagratunis?
I hope I'm saying his name.
That's what I'm hoping is correct.
In 660 AD, I wanted to give him a medieval depiction just to give people visuals.
They can actually see what he may have been looked like.
And on the right, of course, the text, it's an Armenian history.
So as I show that, the question is, one second, pulling this up here.
Sabios, do we have an early manuscript of it?
If not, then how do we know that the sabios we have is what is said originally?
I guess that's a question to ask.
And then maybe get your comments on that and I'll show a few images and play a clip
that kind of goes in the vein of what we've been discussing.
Yeah. So no, it's a lot later manuscript, like 12th century, but you know, very plump.
Pretty much all the texts we have, that's just amazing, really, pretty much every single work
of Greek that still survives from the classical world in the late.
But when you see that you have a cohesive text of this history of sabios,
it's not just fragments, it is a cohesive text.
It's extremely detailed and consistent in its style and content.
So there's no particular reason to doubt that there really is this text.
Generally, what you worry about with these late copies is whether there's been
a minor typographic, you know, there's copies, copy and copy.
They make small mistakes and things.
But there's no reason to doubt the whole, the text of the whole that it is the history
of this person.
Another cleric writing is, I'd say, about 60-ish and way up in Armenia.
So Bagratoum is a royal house, I feel like, but way up near modern Armenia.
Devin, which is just outside Yerevan.
But he says he got this from eyewitnesses and people who actually present at the events.
He does specify prisoners of war who managed to escape and get back to their home land.
So he seems to have some good information.
And it is very detailed.
I do really want to put up the actual story.
I can bring up the text.
Yeah, I don't have the actual, like in its original.
It's obviously the English translation.
So here's just one on sabios page 96, I believe it was, and the highlighted section.
So Muhammad, and notice how MAHMET, how they spell his name, legislated for them not to eat,
carry on, not to drink wine, not to speak falsely and not to engage in fornication.
He said with an oath, God promised this land to Abraham and his seed after him forever.
And he brought about as he promised during that time while he loved Israel.
But now you are the sons of Abraham and God is accomplishing his promise to Abraham and his
seed for you. Love sincerely only the God of Abraham.
And go and seize your land with God, which God gave to your father Abraham.
No one will be able to resist you in battle because God is with you.
Then all they gathered in unison from Iwila, as far as Sur, which is opposite Egypt.
And they went from the desert of Paran, 12 tribes, according to the.
Now I don't know, you know, if we're getting into myth here in legend,
or if they're really self-fulfilling it in the sense and and and formulating their army
in 12 sections or something, because that could be the case.
But as far as this seems like he's dogma, the Holy Land Jerusalem again.
Yeah, so he's got he's a really fascinating or the first one who gives us quite an extended
account because before that passage that you have, he has a whole bit beforehand where he
describes how some Jews who from Odessa, who would be so this he's writing about the very
end of the war between the Romans and the Persians, but the Persians are because they've
been there 20 years or so are in cities around the edges of the Persian Empire like Odessa,
which is now in southeast Turkey, very major city at the time.
And Jews had also followed along with the Persians and they kind of cooperated with them,
hoping to get access, particularly to Jerusalem.
So when the Romans win, they kick out the Persians and the Jews.
And so the Jews from Odessa, the head down to Arabia, they meet up with Muhammad,
then teach them, they explain to him about some doctrines of Judaism,
and they will go and invade Palestine to capture Jerusalem.
So he's very explicit, even says about how the Muslims and the Jews rebuild the temple together.
Wow.
Jerusalem.
So he says, wow, serious stuff.
But Sobeus has three sources of information.
Well, three things that motivate his writing.
One is the first hand accounts from prisons of war.
And he must have some because there's a lot of close detail on certain things which must be
known to especially about Palestine, which he wouldn't know.
So he got some good information from real witnesses.
Then this is the Bible.
And you can really see this is that bit that you quoted.
There's a lot of typical from having that I'm too sure is a direct quotation from the tribes
gathering together of Israel.
This is all directly from the Bible.
And then his third source is basically his own lively imagination.
So he's putting together this quite interesting story.
So he probably has heard that there are Jews cooperating with Muhammad's armies.
And he then picks up the fact that from Odessa, there was a Jewish community that was expelled
by the Romans.
So he thinks, ah, maybe it was these guys who had down and they meet up with Muhammad.
So and some of its Jewish apocalyptic material.
So the question is the relative weight, I suppose, could you isolate out the contemporary
witnesses and their accounts from the biblical and then Subbais' own thinking as he tried
to put together this account into something coherent.
And this is where people are going to argue.
His is probably the main reason or basis for the book Hagerism by Krona and Cook, because
it's very clear that you have Muhammad's community and the Jews cooperating together
to capture Palestine on a basis of apocalyptic ideology.
So there's a really, effectively, it's the Baos who first outlines this theory and Krona and Cook
take it up and give it much more solid analysis and bring in many more sources.
But Subbais is at the base of this.
If you're skeptical, you'll just say, well, he's just used lots of biblical stereotypes
and it's mainly the Bible and his own imagination.
Others would like to feel, no, no, no, there's a lot of good contemporary observation there.
So we should really take this seriously.
This is the sort of thing I'd give students and say, hey, have a go at teasing that out.
It's a wonderful text to read.
But it's difficult to identify when there's not enough information.
People fall back on their prejudices and own particular perspectives on the world.
And so this is the case where you get people arguing quite strongly in opposite directions,
just going to reflect where they're coming from and how they see the world.
This begs a question because I thought about this earlier this morning and yesterday when I was
prepping for the show, haggarism, what would be the motivating factor for saying you are an
Ishmaelite or a descendant of Ishmael, right?
And you bring up an interesting point.
I guess I need to read that book to get my head wrapped around why would.
Because I'm thinking, and this is someone who's read biblical to count,
though he's a seed of Abraham, he's a descendant.
And yes, he's promised to be, he'll be a ruler of nations and stuff.
He doesn't get a good image and outlook if you read the Hebrew Bible.
It's like Ishmael's kind of a wild man.
And I'm not going to use the term, but they, you know, they're, you know, it doesn't look good for
Ishmael, but yet I guess it's good in some ways because he's going to be a ruler of nations.
I don't know what would be their motivation factor.
Do you think that they said, well, we're brothers with Isaac.
So Isaac and Ishmael, we're going to find ways to be brothers.
And they kind of look over that polemic against Ishmael,
biblically speaking.
I don't know.
I'm throwing it to you to maybe get your opinion on it.
Yeah, it would be nice to know what the backstory to the Kram was.
So in the Kram, it's very clear that Abraham and his son Ishmael,
it was so Abraham, obviously, you know, key character in Judaism and stuff,
but Ishmael is a good guy.
He's very important.
He's central.
And it's just as in the beginning of the Gospel,
you get this tracing back of Jesus's genealogy to David,
you get the same where Muhammad is traced back to Abraham,
because Ishmael, father of the Arabs, and so you have a direct line.
So this is key, this Abrahamic genealogy, both in terms of descent and actually the
religious belief is key to the Quran and its vision,
because the Quran isn't saying, hey, here's a brand new religion for you guys to follow.
It's saying this is the original religion that Muhammad gave to Moses and Abraham.
Moses and Abraham are the two key figures in the Quran.
Moses was the early recipient of God's religion and Abraham was continuing it and passing it on to
all nations, including the Arabs.
So this is the original religion.
The Christians just went off the wall a bit with Jesus,
who was only meant to be a prophet.
So this is the Quran's perspective.
And by tapping into Abraham in this way, Muhammad is able to give to his people,
if you like, his followers, and Arabs around him a sense that they're part of that original religion.
Is this an old idea?
This is something it would be nice to know more.
There is one account that tends to be used as a sixth century church historian,
who Dr. Menos, who does actually say that some Jews who came down into Arabia,
talked to the Arabs that they were descended from Abraham.
So even if not quite as good as being a Sun advisor,
it's pretty good being a son of Abraham.
Ishmael, can you still tap directly into Abraham?
And so they told them that, so you are brothers to us and you should circumcise and so on.
So we can be one people.
So there is some sense that this might be an earlier ideology that's been latent.
It's one of many ideologies, perhaps, bumbling around Arabia.
And then Muhammad takes it up and runs with it.
We don't really have enough information to know.
But it's important that's there.
And it's obviously as important right to the earliest Muslims and say,
both the Chronicle of Khuzestan and Sabaos,
both mentioned this connection with Abraham.
And they've obviously had that reported indirectly from the Muslims themselves.
And so this is one of the early dimensions of Islam for sure,
the connection with Abraham and Arabs as descendants of Abraham.
And therefore inheriting his legacy,
which means both worship of the one God and ruling the earth.
That you have a nation that will rule over all earth.
The Quran actually leaves paraphrases, the Psalms on that point,
that you as the sons of Abraham will inherit the earth.
So there's a definite hint of an ideology there that continues on,
to some extent, into later Islamic times, too.
There's something interesting, too.
I don't know if there's even a connection, but you spark curiosity in my thinking.
I've interviewed Dr. Z Bindor Benit.
I don't know if you've ever heard of him.
He wrote a book, A World History of the Lost Tribes of Israel.
And we read an account in Josephus.
Josephus talks about, well, the 10 northern tribes,
they're beyond the Euphrates.
They're without number.
They're innumerable.
And then you have, well, there's two tribes here in Jerusalem.
And he's talking about, or in Rome, I mean, the Judah and Benjamin.
And he's going into this history since the Assyrian conquest
in the 8th century BC all the way down.
And eventually, like, they're out there trying to find the lost tribes.
And at some point, I don't know, historically,
I'd love to have them back on maybe to discuss in this region of, you know,
6th, 7th century, what might be happening.
Are they exploring regions saying you people might be our brethren?
I don't know.
It just kind of makes me wonder if this motif is significant
in what you're suggesting, because in order for the end to happen,
an apocalyptic fever was all over the place, the lost Israelites,
according to Jewish scripture, are supposed to be regathered in order for it to happen.
And everyone knows this.
Even Christians who want to try and, like,
bring Jews back to the Holy Land are thinking they're going to bring
the apocalypse in the second coming upon us by doing that.
So it is interesting.
I think there's some weight to what you're suggesting.
And can we prove it?
Not maybe off the data we have.
We can speculate, but it's really fun.
So, yeah.
Did you want to comment on that?
And you're right.
No, I mean, you're right.
And that's what Sebeos is also tapping into this idea that all the
believing tribes of Israel and their affiliates, if you like, will be brought in
and be ready for the second coming when, you know, heaven on earth and so on.
So, yeah, he taps into that idea.
I mean, Judaism is interesting at the time because it's not,
we think of it as a more tightly described community, which you can potentially join,
but it's a very limited club, if you like.
But at the time, Judaism was spreading pretty well so in South Arabia.
And the ruling group there had only certain sections had converted to Judaism
in the course of the fifth and sixth centuries.
And actually way up in the Caucasus, the Hazars, who are somewhere around modern Azerbaijan,
southern Russia, certain sectors of their ruling elite had converted to Judaism too.
So, it's not such a restricted faith.
So, it's not quite...
So, the lost tribes in Israel, in ideology has a sense, I suppose, of a certain who is
Israel and who isn't.
And that's not since true in the sixth, seventh century.
You could join.
Many Jewish communities were actively engaging in conversion as well.
So, partly because they were suffering quite a bit in the Roman empire by the sixth, seventh
century.
So, bringing in certain powerful actors like the Hazars, South Iranian kings,
then it might bring you extra defense and protection.
And in particular, they probably did want to get back.
There's a lot of Jewish apocalyptic at the time from the early seventh century.
I suppose they see the, initially the Persians attacking the Romans and doing really well.
The Persians initially had massive conquests, six or 14, they take Jerusalem.
So, the Jews are really excited.
Wow, you know, maybe because they have good relations with the Persians,
you can get Jerusalem back now.
And there's a lot of apocalyptic accounts about them rebuilding the temple of Jerusalem.
It's often a bit difficult for us to be sure where they're putting, you know,
where the reality and polyptych begins.
So, there's still people like about it.
They definitely rebuild the temple.
But it looks as though they probably did.
And then, you know, the Arabs come in and beat the Romans and say,
oh, once again, oh, maybe we'll get the temple of Jerusalem back again.
So, there's a lot of kind of excitement.
And we do see a lot of motivation for them to certainly side with the
Mohammed's Arabs, you know, to try and recapture Palestine, at least have a part in it and be
allowed to progress because they've been excluded from Jerusalem.
So, this was a big goal of the time.
Wow, thank you so much for that response.
I've got a couple more here on the Sebeos thing.
This right here says, the said Mohammed had begun as a young man to go up and down from his
own city of Yithrib to Palestine for reasons of commerce, both buying and selling.
That is how he became familiar with that country and the monotheistic religion.
So, this is already a polemic, if you will, that like, you know, this would go against
the tradition is what I'm trying to get at, that he learned this through this.
But back at home, he would expound this religion to his tribesmen, a few of whom
were convinced and became his followers when speaking to them on these matters.
He used also to extol the quality of the land in Palestine.
And he maintained that it was because they confess that unique God,
that such a good and fertile land had been given to them.
Then he would add, if you listen to me, you too will have a good land,
flowing with milk and honey as a gift from God.
To back this claim, he gathered those who were amenable
into a band and began to lead them up to a raid, to raid the land of Palestine.
So, there seems to be a clear affirmative.
And then here in West Syrian Chronicles, one raiding expedition to Palestine and back was
naturally followed by another.
So, it seems like all of these non-Muslim sources seem to be indicating
if we want to generalize that this is like, well, they're followers of Muhammad.
This is all it is.
So, we're kind of stuck with where is this image I'd like to show you that I have in particular.
It seems like you either have, it's not Abu Bakr, it's Omar, isn't it?
Who's the first caliph?
Because it's either between them or Muhammad himself that actually goes, if I'm not mistaken.
So, Abu Bakr is the first, sorry, goes in the sense of what?
I'm not sure what you're referring to there.
Yeah, I'm just trying to figure out if it wasn't Muhammad,
then it would have been a claim for one of the caliph, if I'm not mistaken.
Oh, possibly, if you just, yeah.
I mean, in the end, I suppose, the question is just,
is it a totally manufactured account?
And it says that they're trying to explain what happened, how has this all come about,
that the Arabs have set off, they conquer all these places and so on.
So, you could, if you want to be very skeptical, say, well, they know that there was a Muhammad,
and they know that there are Arabs that conquered all these lands,
and so they just put the two things together, if you wanted to be very skeptical.
I don't think you need to think that it was someone else instead of Muhammad, I don't know.
Got it.
Well, it's different when you're joining up, how much you join up the dots, I suppose,
is the question, but to be honest, he's a convincing person,
he seems to have a very coherent account there, but it is filled with biblical topoi, of course.
Right.
Difficult.
Some of it is, a lot of, the Muslim accounts allow some of this, so that Muhammad is a trader,
well, that's there, as you can see in Sabaeus, that he goes on trading journeys towards the Roman
Empire and the very edges. He's actually, you alluded earlier to an account where he's recognized
as a prophet by a monk, and that's meant to have happened near a place called Bostra,
which is a Roman city, on the edges of the Roman Empire towards Arabia.
I mean, now it's in the very south of Syria, near the Jordanian border,
but it would have been in the, if you like, southeastern border of the Roman territory.
So Muhammad does get up that far, not as a conqueror, but just as a trader.
So if you like, it's allowed a bit by the Muslim sources.
So is it the case that they've just kind of minimized it, if you like, and they've kind of
dragged him back down mainly to stay in Arabia, but actually he gets further.
Yeah, I'd say the question is, there's no clear outside verification.
And so in the end, it'll be a case of, do you consider, I think I actually reviewed Stephen
Schumacher's book on death of a prophet, and as I said, you could take it where we have 11
at least indications that Muhammad was alive after 632 and they conquest the Palestine.
So do you take it that, you know, that's, it's pretty incriminating to have 11,
you know, even indirect references. So yes, it would be nice to have that clenching statement that
puts Muhammad exactly in Jerusalem in 634. But in the absence of that, you could say,
well, there's quite a lot of convincing circumstantial evidence and indirect references.
Okay, I'm going to play a short clip that you, that was with you, I think it was in Saudi Arabia,
I might, might have been not Saudi Arabia, might have been in Pakistan, if I'm not mistaken.
But I'm going to play the short clip and then we'll get into some numismatics,
if that's okay with you, just coins for those who don't know and to get your thoughts about them.
It's really fun to entertain that. So let me play this clip and then maybe I have a question
for you, we'll get into numismatics.
The observations that are made by non-Muslim sources are a bit difficult to know what to
deal with. So for example, they say that Muhammad is alive during the conquest of Jerusalem.
So he's alive in the Muslim accounts, he dies in Arabia. And that's it. Before the conquest
had properly started that happens with his successor Abu Bakr. But in a number of Christian sources,
they have him go to Palestine. And the aim it seems they, it seems is that he wants to
capture Jerusalem. Jerusalem is key to his program in the Christian account,
but that's not really there in the Muslim account.
Yeah, I just, I found that a fascinating.
Unfortunately, that was muted for me, unfortunately. I can see it but not. What was I saying?
So in that particular, you were just simply pointing out that the non-Muslim sources have
him heading to Jerusalem. That's part of his key, his key thing. And then the Muslim account,
of course, has him die in Arabia. And, you know, are there any non-Muslim accounts that actually
say he died outside of Arabia or something?
Muslim or non-Muslim? No, so no one actually mentioned death
outside of Arabia in the non-Muslim accounts.
Interesting.
No, it's just that specific point about him leaving conquest.
So before I get off that subject, the question I wanted to ask is,
this is a really interesting subject that makes me want to have Dr. Shoemaker and others.
Why would, if we can point out clear factors, why Muslims would want to have him die in Arabia
and have him not want to go out beyond, you know, for apocalyptic reasons, political reasons,
polemic reasons against the Prophet, divorcing themselves from Jewish roots or whatever may
be the case, do you have any good still man arguments if I were to give like, let's still
man it, let's give the benefit of the doubt and try to say these non-Muslim sources, their biases
for wanting him to go to Jerusalem and wanting to place him there and, you know, catch him red-handed,
so to speak, trying to take over. Is there a way to explain that that makes as much sense?
It sounds like the other idea makes more sense to me personally, that these later,
but what are your thoughts? Yeah, that's a good point, actually. I think the only thing wouldn't
be that they have a motive for placing him in Palestine. It would just be a false assumption.
They know that the Arab arm is in Palestine and captured Jerusalem. They know Muhammad
is their Prophet and they just put them together. That would be the only, so it would only be that
they just hadn't got it right. But you're right, that's, you could argue a weak argument.
Yeah.
It makes more sense to simply to accept that they did know what they were talking about.
But you do have to remember, as I say, to set up in a pre-modern world, you know, think away all
the vehicles for getting your microphones and transmissions, where we can transmit
information and think of it as being people having to travel large distances often by foot
and there's a lot of potential for misinformation, if you like. There's
a lot of potential for misinformation in our world, actually, but it would mean so that
we do always have to bear in mind that they don't necessarily have good access to accurate direct
right sources. But I do agree with you that
the only the only reason people
A few moments later, Dr. Hoyland, you broke up for a second there and we had to readjust things.
So what were you getting at? Do you recall the final things you were saying?
Oh, just the problem of our sources. Ideally, given that it's relying on one sources problematic,
you want to try and get some, a number of different types of verification, you know,
from different sources. Because otherwise, and the main, as people argue against,
so they are being right or say, oh, well, he was just misinformed. He's putting two and two together
and getting five. And that's certainly a possibility. But your argument, and the argument
of Kroger and Cook and Schumacher is a strong one, there's a lot of, you know,
even if it's indirect references, there's a lot of them that makes you be going in the same direction.
Okay, final thing I'd like to ask you in that vein of the death of the Prophet,
what sources did Islamic scholars have to suggest that he did die in 632? Like,
like, I mean, if we're going to investigate, we want to turn over every stone to make sure we're
figuring out what, where, when, how, why, and all that. If these sources come later, like,
how can they be confident he did die in 632? When we do have non-Muslim sources, seemingly,
if we take Dr. Schumacher, for example, to the bank and say, okay, they're, let's say they are
saying that the Prophet was heading up and down to Jerusalem, trying to conquer it, and he's involved
in that. If that is the case, where did the Muslims get their source that he died in 632?
Do we have any evidence of that or no? So, I should probably say initially,
there are very different types of sources, what we have from the Christian and the Muslim
sources. They're different materials. So, the Christian stuff tends to be rather small snippets
of stuff within a chronicle. And it's not their main thing. I mean, Thomas the Presbyter, it's
one tiny entry for one day. And the chronicle is going back to the beginning of time.
Only that much.
Yeah, he wouldn't specifically try to say anything about it. Whereas, the Muslims,
we have directly trying to chronicle Muhammad and the conquests. That's their main thing.
So, he's a very deliberate source. It's not just an offhand comment. And the point here is,
because when your main aim is to, you know, say you're writing a biography of a person that's
supposed to just say, oh yeah, I met that guy the other day, you know, and saw this, you know,
it's, you're actually, if you're writing a biography of a person, you're crafting it,
you're systematizing it, you're, and that's what we see with the Muslim sources. They're
very carefully arranged. You know, there's a set, the way the time frame operates is, okay, here's
the period. It's called the Jahlia, where there's no famine, no religion, everyone's
pain, it's all very bad. But then Muhammad comes, he brings light and knowledge, and that's his
period. And then we move on to this period of the four caliphs in Medina, Abu Bakr, Omar,
Osman, and Ali, and those are the four, they're called the rightly divided and guided caliphs,
and that's where it's a civic period, 632, 61. And then we move on to Umayyad in Damascus,
very clear, 661. So it's very, very carefully arranged. So, and they want to move on from
topic to topic, because Muhammad's lifetime is very sacred, he's the prophet, so move on to the
four rightly guided caliphs, okay, that down one, it's less, you know, divine, but it's still very
important because they're the successes of Muhammad. And then once we go to Damascus, it's much more
regular sort of kingship. So one, they're systematizing, and two, they have this very clear
sense of how things should be ideologically. And so what you say is that they're simply drawing a
line, I guess 632 is, that's the end, it's not just the prophet's death, that's the end of
prophethood. So we're tying in with a bigger religious gender, you know what I mean, because
the idea is we switch from prophethood to caliphhood, if you like. So this is the time
of caliphs now, end of prophets. And that's important for saying there's no prophetic authority
anymore. Muhammad was tapped into God, he had authority to say to make laws, do anything.
Caliphs don't have that right. So we've changed the prophethood, really, they're meant to only
implement what Muhammad said. So there's an idea, it's not just a chronological shift,
there's a whole ideological shift. So that's, so there's no, nobody has given us evidence
for Muhammad's death in any concrete way. And the problem with the Muslim sources say that
it's difficult to strip away, to call shift. I mean, this is one of the things I've tried to do
in God's path and why they can be very useful to non Muslim sources. So as with any victor's
narrative, I mean, we talked about the, you know, the British empire or the French empire,
but actually a good 80% of the British army was made up of non British people, you know,
people from wherever they come, they get other groups to it. So you never hear about this story
because it's victors who are telling it. And the same happens with the Muslim sources,
they only talk about Muslim Arab conquerors, the fact that many other groups, the Berbers and Persians
have so many different groups are involved and often provided the mainstay of the armies is
edited out, an airbrushing just, I mean, as I say, this is the standard thing victors do,
you don't want to bother with those low level types, as far as you're concerned,
you want to focus on the glorious exploits of us, you know. Yeah, yeah. You do. Sorry. I mean,
this is what started the whole and why British Kroner and Michael couldn't the first place,
said, let's look at these non Muslim sources to see if it changes our perspective because they
were aware that when we look at Muslim sources, you're getting with a very particular perspective
of the conqueror, you're not getting, you know, it's just one and so they wanted a very different
perspective. And that's what started this whole ball rolling, if you like, of the non Muslim sources.
Yeah, it just makes me wonder, like, how confident should we be on Muslim sources on getting the
facts correct on that? It's kind of like, I don't know if the comparison can be made because I'm
not an Islamic scholar, a Quranic scholar and understanding, I don't want to tiptoe or dip
our toes in theology at all. That's not my goal. But I know by looking at Christian sources, looking
at Jewish sources and how they interpret things, you can see, you can see narratives created about
Jesus put Jesus put like words put into his mouth in the way in which he dies, or what he may have
said when he dies, like, like various things are not accurate, if that makes sense in terms of
historically, we may not know actually what actually happened when it came to Jesus, well-known
figures. So when it comes to the Prophet, we're listening to people who believe, who are theologically
driven and potentially politically driven within the mission of a empire that is trying to conquer
and take over. And it makes me wonder, like, is it oral tradition that they're claiming that they
know these things from 632 when he died, or is this something that at some point they decided,
well, this is when we think the Prophet died and here's what we're setting up. This is our history.
We've written our history now, kind of like antiquity of the Jews. Josephus does not take
everything verbatim. He kind of gives his own intelligent, but his own little spin and interpretation
into the data of what he's interpreting from the Jewish history. So it makes me wonder what's
going on. I'm very cautious on knowing what's factual and not, if that makes sense. I don't know.
And unfortunately, numbers and dates are actually always, you might think it's very neutral,
but it really isn't. So it's very important. Muhammad becomes a prophet at 40, and 40 is
like a magical number, and he spends equal time in Mecca and Medina. There's a whole series of
the numbers are crucial. So it's very difficult to decide afterwards how much we can rely on this
sort of material. Thank you so much for that. Now to Numismatics, we're almost done, and this is
just the fun stuff. So we can just talk about money. Money is always fun, right? In this image,
if you see in the bottom left, kind of highlighted Muhammad's name on this coin,
can you tell us what's said on these coins? And I guess my question to be blunt is,
is it possible that the image we see on this coin is the Prophet himself?
So not this one, you're probably thinking of the next one. So this is a Persian coin. No, it's
gone. Okay. So on the left, you have the Persian emperor. Very impressive. And gorgeous crowns.
Look at that winged crown. Absolutely fascinating. And he's got lots of amazing ones, and necklace,
and jewelry there. And then on the right is actually, it's a really fascinating coin that's
because it's originally, this was a fire altar with two attendants. It probably still is, but
it gets repurposed in the Islamic period. But anyway, this is a very classic Sasanian Persian
coin. It's been really, they've kept you to the same die, a little bit when you stamped the image
on the coin. And they're just reusing it. But to make it clear that it's acceptable for Muslims,
and it's being issued by Muslims, they write in Arabic, Bismillah, in the name of God, and then
Muhammad Rasulullah, and that's around the edges. And that's just letting people know this is coming
from the Muslim authorities. Because there's a double whammy to coins. I mean, the messages,
they have an intrinsic meaning, but they also letting you know this is acceptable even if you
can't read it. I mean, so in Britain, you know, it's on the pound coin, they had it in Latin,
but it's kind of got an air of authority about it. And it's what you expect. And so you know,
this is legitimate, because you want to know, it's your money, you know, it's like someone gives me
a $50, no, I want to know, is this, can I rely on it? I don't want to find out it's a fake.
So there's also a legitimate thing factor. So the Bismillah Muhammad Rasulullah is letting people
know, yep, this is coming from the conquerors, you can have faith in it. But it's fascinating
because it's the first time Muhammad's name is appearing on an object at all. Oh, wow.
On any other inscriptions. So this is very striking. You get references to Allah, God,
but not actually to Muhammad before this. And it's coming out of the Second Civil War. The
Muslims fight a lot of civil wars. The second one starts around 683. And it's to do with succession,
because the first of this family, Ma'awiyah, who belongs to an Umayyad family, he nominates his
son. And so people are thinking, whoa, you know, I mean, that's still a bit of a no-no today, isn't
it? You know, this is always a bit worrying when people start nominating their son to take over.
He's like, Oh, is this family and say that, you know, we control everything? And it's, well,
I'm just going to pass it through my family. And my family's, you know, autocratic little unit.
So as soon as that happens, people start getting, you know, worried. And so it leads to the civil
war with different factions on either side. And one of the rebel factions, they actually
make a claim to saying that they fight for Muhammad, the prophet, and for his legacy.
And they're saying, actually, his legacy is to be back in Medina, where the first Caliphs were
not in Damascus. So they're arguing for a particular perspective on Islam, a certain type
of Islam, which is much closer to Muhammad's legacy. And presumably they're effectively attacking
the Umayyads in Damascus as not having adhered to the prophet's legacy of having departed from it.
And so being heretics. So really, it's a wonderful thing about coins. There's like this tiny little
object, but there's such an amazing backstory behind it. Yeah. And this is another one right here,
right? So on the left, it also looks once again, like our previous image here in a sense, right,
the guy on the left, but on the right, it looks like a sheath sword warrior. What is this, what's,
what's going on with this one, the Vassidurant of God, the representative, it's almost like a
pope figure or, you know, something like that is being written on here. What's tell us about it.
Yeah. So I'd say it's a bit of a million dollar question you've got there.
So yeah, this is also a Persian imitation of a Persian coin. And they've kept on the left side,
the figure of the emperor, but they've changed the image on the right side to include this
figure bearing the sword. It's a fascinating figure. He's got this long hair coming down.
Tends to be taken as a caliph representation of the caliph, the Muslim ruler. It's called Khalif
de la next to him, which means the vice gerent is one word. I'm deputy really, but Khalifa,
someone who's the representative of who stand in for Khalif de la. It's a very grand type of
understanding for God, you know, hell of a name to make, you know, arguing that these Muslim rulers,
Caliphs are actually vice gerents of God. They stand in never earthly rulers of the world who
represent God. If you like, it's a claim to universal rule, a bit like the Mongols would
make that they were representing the sky God. So they're going to act as the sole rulers for
the whole world. But it's also been argued by that this is not this could be Muhammad, it could be
there's also an argument for an apocalyptic Jesus, which is an interesting one. Jesus is sometimes
portrayed in certain apocryphal Christian sources as coming with a sword. And he's going to separate
out the believers from the unbelievers. So that's another explanation to be quite an attractive one
in a way. But it's very difficult for an image. Images are things that are immediately relevant
to people in the know. You know, it's the play, if you see logos of companies, you could just show
like the Nike logo or something. You wouldn't say anything. People know how that's that. But if you
don't know, it's how would you ever know? Because it's a it's a code. And it's the same with this,
we don't really have the ability to decode it very easily. You get a number of there's a lot of
these standing Caleb coins, and some of them, especially those from Northern Mesopotamia,
what is now the very south of Turkey, places like Odessa and Haran, they you have this image,
and then they write Mohammed above it. But is that Mohammed? Is that just the local governor's
name? Or is it actually referring to Mohammed the Prophet? We don't really know.
That's why I ask I ask, because obviously, people want to be cautious about what they say,
they're they're concerned, like, don't go around saying this is an image of the Prophet,
because especially with with cartoonists and stuff. I mean, in modern times, it's obviously stirred up
serious controversy. So I wondered if like, scholarship would try to avoid this possibly in
the Prophet. But it doesn't seem like that that's really the case. It sounds to me that like, no,
they're just not sure. I mean, this could have been this could be. Yeah, you're not close off to
this being it possibly being him. No, and it's a kind of it's a very modern fundamentalist idea
that you shouldn't portray the Prophet. But it was perfectly ordinary, especially in Persian
miniature manuscripts, you get these really beautiful images of different religious figures,
and it includes the Prophet Mohammed. It was very ordinary. There's nothing against it at all,
and in all parts of the Middle East, this is quite ordinary. And it's a more fundamentalist
attitude. But it's also, fortunately, because the West, when they introduce things like the
Mohammed cartoons, they're not, it's not just a neutral depiction, Western Christian artists
could do a painting of Mohammed, and it probably wouldn't cause any offense. But obviously, the
cartoons were done in a mocking way. And that's what obviously causes the extra offense. Right.
So it's partly the way it's done. But anyway, before the modern period, it certainly wasn't a
problem to portray the Prophet. And there was still some certain fundamentalist groups who,
you know, who loved whacking anyone who played music or
you know, you have fundamentalist groups in all religions.
Absolutely. So I'm going to, I'm going to pull up this final image, and then I'm going to pull
up two zoom in versions of it. So we can actually see it much clearer. I think these are beautiful
coins. So this image right here, the question is, who is this guy, right on this? I say guy,
because look, let's be honest, if a woman grows a beard like that, I'd be, I'd be really wanting
some tips from her because she, you know, anyway, we have this coin and I wanted to dichotomize it
with a Christian one with Justinian the second above around the same period. You have this supposed
standing standing caliph in 705 and Justinian the second. And the reason why I wanted to is
that oftentimes, and I could be wrong about this is why I kind of wanted to ask is that the coins,
let me put it this way, whose name is on the coin, the one with the standing caliph and maybe you
can also elaborate on the one above, if it's Muhammad, is that the only name on the coin?
Am I right in understanding that during the period that coins were minted, whenever there's
an image of a person, the identity of that person is on the coin too? I understand that this is
this category falls into numismatics, but I suspect because you have looked at these things
archaeologically and you've delved deep, is it possible that that makes more sense? Now here's
a zoom in on the standing caliph for everybody to see and then of course Justinian the second,
but which one would you want to pay attention to first?
So let's start with this one because we actually know much more about it, the circumstances,
because we have written texts about it, so actually it's a very good idea to put the two there,
because it gives us again broader context, because it isn't in isolation that the Islamic coins appear.
So this Justinianic coin is striking because the emperor who's normally at the front gets
relegated to the rear and we have an image of Christ, it's a famous image from the Pantuprata.
In Christ as the world ruler and this, I think we know it's dated to at 692, there's like a one
or two year 691, 692, there's also an internal debate within, Christian Rome often gets called
Byzantium, so I'll say Byzantium, which is about images, is it okay to display images or not? And so
presumably this is because they're on the back foot of the Roman Byzantine Empire because of
losing a lot of their provinces and so they're thinking have we done something wrong and some
people say have we actually violated that most important of the Ten Commandments thou
shall not you know make a graven image, you know you shouldn't make an image of God, so there's a
big debate about this and Justinian goes for a note, it's okay I'm actually going to stick Jesus
on the coin, so it's very clear, so there's been an internal audience there, but there must be something
I think going on across, not just within Byzantium but from Byzantium to Islam, so this is Jesus is
our protector and within a couple of years anyway you get the Muslim coin with that
image of the person with the long hair, as you say beard, long robe, belt, it's beautifully done,
absolutely beautiful craftsmanship, these are gold actually and then the sword
and the question is what is, 75 is way too late that you put, so you put the death date of Abdul
Malik himself, which is 705, but the coin must be much earlier than that, this one is actually quite
an early one because on the rear it's got these other mysterious symbols, which no one's quite
sure what it is and there's been loads of theories for, because late what happens in a very quick
space of time is that there are a number of different styles of coins issued by Abdul Malik
and the next one along just has writing on the rear and then next one along again is writing on
both sides only, just Muslim professional faith and other stuff about where it was minted and
so on, so they go to total, by the end of Abdul Malik's reign they've gone to words only, no images,
question themselves sometimes, it's not 100% clear, but yeah who would they put on the coin,
this is an interesting thing, so by that time to put Jesus, what are you as the Muslim ruler,
how are you going to respond, you could say you might think well we'll put our prophet on there,
you know Jesus is your prophet, your top religious guy, we're going to put our top religious guy,
so they stick Muhammad on there or as some people have said, they put a different version of Jesus
on there, so you have the one of Jesus with the scripture and then this one is an apocalyptic
Jesus where he's holding the sword which will distinguish between the faithful and unbelievers,
or you take the more prosaic one and that tends to be what's won out because it seems a bit more
neutral and that is that it's simply the caliph, but we don't have any documents to explain this,
so I say the other image, this funny thing on the steps, some people say that's a cross,
a kind of truncated cross, it was a cross what they've done is they've taken the crossbar out
and so that's a deliberate snub to the Christians, some people say but that's a negative image,
would they really put a negative image on there, wouldn't they put a positive image,
so surely this means something, maybe it's so that Muhammad is meant to have carried a staff,
you know a stick, a bit like you know Moses had his stick, and that's what it is, it refers to
the prophet's staff, but again we just have nothing to help us here understand this image,
it's very difficult, it's good that you bring the Byzantine one there because you understand
this is a kind of war of images going on, but there's probably an inter, in both cases there's
an internal war about the place of images, and then in the Islamic case they decide the images
are bad, let's get rid of them and they go for an an iconic, but in a very religious context,
so like in a mosque you could have images on three sides, but the side that faces Mecca,
you can never have images, so in a very religious context that's when you shouldn't have images,
not against images in total, it's just a very in that religious context, so
and but in the coins they decided let's just have words, so just cut out the images, so there was
obviously some internal debate going on there, it's actually quite amazing because normally coins
are conservative, you don't want to keep changing them because people are going to get worried,
legitimate, the image has changed like five times already now, so there's amazingly in 10 years
all these different versions of the coins popping up, but we just don't know exactly what's behind
it really, and I don't know, I'd invite readers to just have a think for themselves and read a bit
and then come up with ideas themselves on what lies behind that image, and say mainly the suggestions
of Muhammad and apocalyptic Jesus or the ruler, the caliph, so people go for the ruler, it's a kind
of safe option I suppose, and it's kind of what you expect I suppose, in general rulers
appeared on coins, so they're people assuming that they just kept, they just did, initially the
Muslims thought well I'll do the same as the Romans and we'll put the image of our ruler,
but it's still very striking because you do get statues of the caliphs at their palaces,
for example the palace in Jericho, Caliphate of Mafcha, beautiful palace, they have an image of
the caliph, but actually his hair is rather nicely permed, so interesting with very long hair,
and often that does have religious significance, religious figures often you know because you
don't like perming your hair or treating it is a sign of your attachment to this world,
so if you don't care about the world then you let your hair go, let your hair and beard go and
don't worry about it, but it's fascinating, it's a beautiful robe actually isn't it, sorry I'm
leaning forward because I'm trying to look at the image, but it's a beautifully done image,
some people have even suggested it's not actually a sword that is holding but a scroll in a
protecting sheath, and that it refers to the fact that Muhammad is meant to have given a scroll
to Ali, his son son-in-law with kind of special information about the secrets of Islam, so yeah
if you're looking at myths and kind of secrets, it's a fantastic place to start, and it's difficult
for us because it's before the kind of more official Islam where we have lots of documentation,
you know we don't have documentation much for what Muslims are thinking in this period, and this is
the difficult bit, what was the ideological thinking of the internal, you know, of the community
itself, we don't really have access to that, so these images are fantastic, but an image on its own
is difficult to decode without external information. I absolutely love your explanation, I just did a
video because I was listening to Muslim apologists and then people who are like antagonists go at
arguing about Jesus, and you know I've got the connection to like countless experts when it comes
to this, and I'm like okay Dr. Bart Ehrman how you doing, I got a question for you because he's
doing a seminar recently, a webinar, and I said like how do the Muslims get Jesus historically
Jesus wrong, and he's like well you know because I said look we've already done how Christians may
have get it wrong, but their version, and I had this question I asked him toward the end,
he thought it was an interesting question, he never really thought about it, but
Reza Aslan who wrote the book Zealot about Jesus, I asked him is it possible, do you think that
like the reason he wrote that book Zealot may stem from coming from the Islamic approach and seeing
Jesus more of a militant zealot matches more in line with the conquest of his prophet, and he said
I never thought about it that way, that's interesting, but he said I don't think so, he thinks
that Reza's going in line with the rest of some of the historians or scholars on Jesus' studies
who have actually come to this conclusion, they thought when you look at the Book of Acts you see
you know these certain rebel figures who get stamped out, and their movement goes extinct,
but you know they even have a famous Jewish teacher who's like no man don't fight against them,
you might find yourself fighting against God, and of course this seems to be also a myth,
but either way it's interesting that some have come to that conclusion, so I thought maybe
they're painting, maybe he wants Jesus to be a rebel figure, I don't know, I don't know, it's just
my thinking. No it's a good idea, I mean you might, when did he write it, you know the book, because
if it's post 9-11 then there was a number of figures who wanted to try and show that hey
Christianity likes to think of itself as a religion of peace, Islam is a religion of war,
but actually Christianity also has its fair share of war and fighting, which is of course true,
so if he was writing post 9-11 then you could imagine. Yeah 2013, yeah you can imagine Reza
wanting to say hey you know it may even be that Jesus himself is a jihadi, you put it in the actual
real terminology that he's thinking of. Thank you so much, ah man this has been an absolute blast,
everybody go to Amazon, I held them longer than I thought I was going to have them,
we have much more to discuss, I just need to read through this whole book Arabia and the Arabs and
get deeper into some of these discussions, but I would absolutely recommend you guys read the
books, please do, in fact it makes the scholars who do come on recognize that it's worth their time
and time is energy and of course I see it as very valuable to come on and have these discussions
with you to educate the general public and these questions that we asked today were mostly from
people who are patrons of MythVision consider becoming one, this is how I do what I do constantly
to educate more people and I thank you for everybody who's helped support me, Dr. Hoylan if I could
I want to give you an opportunity, are you working on anything, is there anything in particular you
would really recommend everybody to check out or get a certain book or anything in particular?
Dharmachi, starting work on some different excavations at the moment so I'm going to play
different directions for my core research at the moment, although I've also been publishing some of
these texts which actually when I wrote my first book See Islam in the 1990s were unpublished then
and they're still unpublished now so I'm kind of publishing these so just to make them much
more accessible to a broader audience. For a broader thinking about Islam there's a couple
of nice books from Islam. You broke up a second you said for broader, for broader thinking go ahead
so just broader thinking about what is Islam and that's the title of the book what does it mean
but to Muslims and how is it viewed by others it's an internal view of an educated Muslim
just thinking about his own civilization and it's a kind of very thoughtful read for
we all in the post-911 world people have very distinct ideas about Islam which is often
not at all true he starts off with one unbelievably strong stereotype which is when he's sitting
drinking a glass of wine somewhere and someone just comes up to him and says but you're a Muslim
you shouldn't be drinking and it's funny we kind of a lot of non-Muslims have the idea that Muslims
should stick to their religion I mean in theory Christians shouldn't be having sex before marriage
but you wouldn't get through the day if you had to point out to everyone who Christina
was sex before marriage that they shouldn't be doing exactly exactly yes of course there's
no as we don't mean we all follow them but somehow people think Muslims should follow the law
and just drinking is probably the biggest one but anyway he goes through what it means to be a
Muslim which doesn't necessarily mean following the letter of the law but it's broad he thinks of
it as a broader cultural civilization yeah wow there's so much to learn from you on this subject
I really do appreciate it I hope that we can do this again obviously we'll take questions from
people who are wanting to help the channel out they want to steer the content they're more than
welcome to ask questions from experts thank you once again for joining me Dr. Hoylund and I am
going to get all of your books and at some point I'll have all of them read and we will hopefully
connect again maybe actually meet in person someday and I can interview you get some wonderful
content and work it out from there so thank you that'd be great it's been really nice talking to
you Derek thanks for the opportunity you too don't go anywhere yet ladies and gentlemen if you're
lost you don't know your way I've got a chance for you we are myth-fishing
you
