All right, it looks like we're live.
Welcome back to Mid-Fusion Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert,
bringing a scalpel critical thought
to Islam and Christianity, of course.
And the question is, which one's true?
With our guest today, Nuri Akan,
who has a YouTube channel, I hope everybody,
goes and supports and subscribes.
I'm even a member of it,
because I want true salvation.
I know where heaven is.
And you can go subscribe.
She's doing all sorts of fun stuff.
When she has time,
she's debated some of the Muslims that are out there
that are defending Islam.
I don't know, have you debated any Christians?
I don't think that's your-
I don't think so, yeah, I haven't yet.
No, my fight as much as it is yours, I guess.
Right, exactly.
And then you did a recent interview with Seth Andrews,
that was actually really good.
I did it, yes.
Thank you.
Absolutely.
For those who are curious to say you hypocrite, you, Derek,
you always poke at Christianity,
and you never take any critical scalpel to Islam.
You don't do this to Islam.
You're a Christophobe.
Well, ladies and gentlemen,
I have 19 videos for you to educate
and remove yourself from that ignorance,
understanding that I have actually had
some of the world's leading critical scholars
when it comes to Islam,
and they're not polemicists.
They are scholars, often from Harvard University
and other institutions across the world,
who know a thing or two about Islam,
know how to read its sources in the original languages
and such, from Syrian to Arabic, and you name it.
So I hope that you will not cast judgment
that is false on me,
before giving me a chance to listen
to the things I actually present on Mithvision,
because we're trying to be fair.
And you asked me before we went live, Naria,
do you have some anger or some heated vendetta
toward the Christian apologists?
Because man, they're quick to poke you in the eye
and point out the flaws in Islam,
but really don't recognize that much
of the very critiques they make
actually apply to Christianity.
So yes, there is a sense in which I wanna call that out
because I know Christianity quite well,
and you know Islam,
and you've learned a lot more about it,
I'm sure, since leaving the bubble.
Let me not hog the mic.
I wanna go where ever-
And from your channel as well, Derrick,
I had to say, I love your Islam content.
There's not many people doing this
in the way that you're doing it, especially in English,
with that level of content getting out there
with the academic backing.
So absolutely amazing, we need more of this.
But yeah, I'm excited to be back on Mithvision.
And yeah, even when you kind of said
just the basis of this conversation,
I was like, it's definitely a conversation
that needs to be had.
And I think we'll both bring our own little elements
and how much apologetics has pushed us
to maybe even start our channel and do what we do,
or just kind of try and put out information
to counter all the misinformation out there,
or what was once shrouded in mystery.
So yeah, I'm excited.
You kind of, I guess you take the lead
and then we'll go wherever you wanna go.
Okay, okay.
We'll start with my recent video on David Wood,
where I point out almost everything he says
when he's criticizing Islam in that particular video,
actually applies to Christianity and Judaism
and the earlier Phoenician Canaanite cultures.
It almost applies to every religion.
Oftentimes, almost all of the points that he brings up
are ubiquitous in human religion,
because religion, I think, is an evolution,
a construct that humans have evolved
to naturally come to.
I don't think that they were like,
some people talk about hell, right?
People invented hell just to control humans.
I think there's, maybe that's happened,
obviously, throughout history where they have utilized it,
but I think naturally people have drawn these ideas up
completely normal and natural.
They saw gas coming out of the earth,
they imagined the underworld,
they've already had constructions of the ideas
of underworlds being a place people go,
people going to heaven, ascending to heaven,
all the way back in Mesopotamia with Adapa,
and there's Egyptian mythologies as well
that go into this.
My point is, is I just saw it and I was like,
this is an interesting video,
because I know that he's being condescending towards Islam.
Muslims love rocks.
You know, look at the comment section,
Christians are like,
Muslims love rocks, the Kaaba, and it's like,
dude, do you not know about the Holy Sepulchre?
Do you not know about the standing stones in ancient Israel
or even the foundation stones to the temple in Jerusalem
that were significant in Judaism?
It seems like I said it before the stream,
I'm going to use a different example,
because I don't want to get people,
someone tries to point fingers at me and say,
that's not politically correct or something,
but it's like someone who is pointing the finger
and everything applies to them as well,
and they just can't see it.
And that's what I'm trying to point out
when I critiqued that video.
I'm not even disagreeing with the things
that David Wood may have said about Islam in that case.
Yeah, because as you said,
David Wood is brilliant in his critique against Islam,
especially like when it comes to bringing these
kind of even obscure elements of it
really much to the forefront.
And then the tone he uses, it's appealing,
but completely like as you said,
if you were to take those same line of arguments
or that same reasoning and you were to apply it
onto your own worldview,
obviously it's going to get really problematic.
And as you said rightly,
this is why I think the beauty of your channel anyway,
and what I tried to do in my teeny tiny way
when I realized that Islam wasn't true,
was to kind of see, okay, where did this come from
and how did this get to where we are today
and what did it build on?
And then it just becomes this insanely interesting
tapestry of history that just unfolds before your eyes,
and you can see the overlap.
And just like in your response video,
it was perfectly articulated
how most holy sites remain holy.
And even if you look back to the Muslim,
like let's say they're worshiping of a rock essentially,
whether you consider the circumambulation of the garba,
essentially worshiping a rock and then the black rock
that's in there that was once white.
But if you look into the Hadiths as well,
they're talking about worshiping stones and rocks
as something that was done pre-Islamically anyway.
And they literally even like would joke around saying,
oh, if we didn't used to do this,
we still, we'd think, what are we doing?
But we saw the prophet doing this before
and it was very much seeped into the general
like religious psyche at the time, if you will.
And that's what the entire garba's foundation was.
But no, you're right.
And the only thing I would say is,
I think it's weird to me that also like somebody is,
you know, really kind of trying to do ministry
or trying to, I guess, make people come to their understanding
of what religion is or come back to Christ or what have you
because I think in David Wood's case,
and I'm not here to like literally psychoanalyze anyone,
that's not what I'm doing, but it's just interesting
because it's like the reasons
why some people turn to religion.
And I guess if you take everybody's personal circumstances
into account, I, for some reason,
I personally don't think that David Wood was too bothered
about the veracity of the claims potentially at the time
that he, you know, accepted Jesus or even now afterwards
because it was almost that like road to Damascus moment
or that feeling and Derek, you felt it once upon a time.
I felt it once upon a time, like David saw me,
he's felt, everybody's had that.
And I think something neurologically just switches off
at that point, you know, when you're,
and then your defenses go up
because that's the world where you've got to protect.
I think that, and this is psychoanalyzing David a bit,
I would be more than happy to have conversations with him.
The internet is fueled by tribalistic
and certain motifs of you need to debate.
I'm not a debater.
I'm a commissator.
I want to have an honest, good conversation with people.
I wouldn't mind dissecting the discussion
with David about his journey.
And it'd be an interesting conversation
because I imagine if you actually hammered your dad
in the head and the way that he described his conversion
going down into the subway,
I was shocked to see the reception of many Christians
seeing that interview, that video,
that Plato's cave analogy of a conversion
and not getting like, hold on,
I need to pause the things he said in this video
were so extreme.
Like this isn't I was struggling with drug addiction
or someone's doing something that, you know,
is almost like taboo, but like I want to pill people's skin off.
This is like Jeffrey Dahmer sounding stuff
that he was describing in his conversion.
And I'm thinking to myself, holy shit,
this is insane.
And like if that experience that he had in prison
based on Christianity is what he's hinging his whole,
this is what's true, then my definition up front
on what I was saying in the title
by saying which one's true Islam or Christianity
wouldn't apply to this.
Cause what I'm trying to say is, what is true?
What conforms to reality?
What are the facts?
What is the reality about these religions?
I would say they're manmade
and that human experience is where he would probably play
into his kind of change that he claims Christianity did to him
that caused him to go down the path he's going down.
I want to say up front for those who are possibly
David Wood fans and stuff, I really enjoy
and get a laugh out of many of his critical videos
toward Islam.
And I've spoken to several critical scholars
who aren't fans of polemicism and the kind of hatred
that goes so far that people would maybe even label it
Islamophobic, things like that.
But they do say that he handles his sources in English
quite well when he's being critical of Islam.
Not always, they said, not every time he's accurate
on the way that he's assessing the material,
but he does a damn good job.
And these are people who aren't Christian or atheists
that are critical scholars that I talked to in Islam.
And so he does a good job there.
But when I see that he doesn't apply the critical source
criticism to the Bible, to the New Testament,
I can't help but wonder why and I want to point that out.
So then I could imagine a conversation, Nurya,
you tell me between me and him where he would go,
okay, okay, sure, let's just grant all of this.
Which one's worse?
Which one pragmatically in the world is a worse religion?
And then I can imagine it going down that kind of path
to avoid pointing out the flaws
that he literally is critiquing Islam about.
And I could show that all of that applies to the Bible
and his worldview, but yeah.
Yeah, no, exactly.
And I think there is also an element.
He, I think he was, he did a podcast with Horace Sultan
and they went into a little bit of his time in jail
and then him kind of coming towards Christianity.
And it was brought up whether, you know,
he needed Christianity to keep him grounded, if you will.
And he doesn't even like kind of, you know,
shy away from the fact that, yeah,
that might be the case entirely.
And then I think Matt De La Hunty's even said,
if you need Christianity for that, then by all means,
keep it like I'm happy that you're Christian.
And it's honestly the same thing for, again,
a lot of Muslims who say that there's no,
the concept of morality and the concept of this
expanding universe and us just here on a tiny blue dot,
you know, arguably for no real reason is too much to bear.
And that thought of like kind of just,
I guess that existential crisis is too much.
And then you want to latch on to something
which gives you hope.
So I think in the words of David,
he said that within jail being a Christian,
then I could still control my own mind and my own thoughts
and any punishment that was meted out at me
wouldn't really affect me because I guess you, you know,
you strengthened your resolve in so many other ways.
And so then I ask you, Derek,
how much would truth or the concept of truth
come into such a situation?
Right, nothing, I don't know if real reason
and real truth would be something
that would help resolve in that
because I think what makes Christianity so pragmatic,
it has a utility.
If we look at it from its origins,
you're dealing with a slave society
that do not control the scene.
You have a figure who's a peasant nobody
who comes from a nowhere
who legitimately usurps the Roman Caesar
and the authors who wrote about him, including Paul,
apply all of the attributes of a deity.
I'm not saying he's God, the Trinitarian view.
I think that's anachronistic on Christian's parts
to assume this theology we call Trinitarianism
is what the Bible's teaching.
No, I think he is another deity.
He has a father who's ultimately God the father,
but he is a God.
Now I know that hypermonotheists will come out and go,
there's no other God.
They gotta find a reconciled this cognitive dissonance,
but I guess what I'm getting at is
the idea of suffering that we find.
I gave an analogy to a friend of mine this morning
when we were talking about this
because one of her friends wrote on Twitter or Instagram
something about, let me read it to you actually
because it applies to the very thing you're saying.
And then this dives into why I think not only Islam,
but Christianity, there's a common theme and thread
that runs through both that works for someone
like in prison as an example.
She said, I saw Christian quote my friend shared
on Instagram today and it really struck me,
was like better to be in pain in God's plan
than to be in comfort without him.
She was like, what the fuck?
So the moral is it's better to be in pain
as long as you can align it to God
than to be not in pain.
So I don't think that's the point.
I think they're saying you're suffering,
life's difficult, life's tough.
Here is David Wood in prison, he's struggling.
And I broke down the whole concept of a woman
who's been captured by a predator,
men that have like literally trapped them in their house.
We find them 15 years later, three kids later,
they're sexually abused this entire time
in this relationship, they have no control.
They are stuck and trapped in a completely hopeless scenario.
Well, how do you find resolve?
How do you find peace?
How can I live with this?
You make your weakness, your strength.
You make I am weak, therefore I'm strong.
You make in your mind a psychological way
in which you can be the stronger one
because slap me on the other cheek.
Beat me to a pulp.
And when you read Irenaeus and church fathers
who are writing to the Romans saying,
I want to die, this flesh is nothing.
If I love this life, then I will not gain the one to come.
It is this kind of psychological slave mentality
and prison is another form of slavery in many ways.
I understand it has absolute utility for certain reasons
but in many cases, there's a lot of human rights issues,
there's a lot of problems that go on in this.
And imagine being trapped in prison,
this philosophy works really good for someone
who has no power.
So you see this reversal of the Roman imperial cult
in the Christ movement right there in the New Testament,
Jesus gets the titles of Caesar Augustus,
Jesus gets everything that you see the Caesars
and the other deities that are all floating
around the Roman Empire, they apply to Jesus.
Jesus just so happens to turn water into wine
just like Dionysus.
The list can go on and on.
And so they have found a way to make their weakness,
their strength and whoever penned these things
did a damn good job, I think.
Anyway, sorry for rambling, but that's fine.
No, no, not at all.
Yeah, no, and again,
because it's very similar to how Islam praised
on criminals as well, like who are incarcerated.
And it's that same that like with Christianity,
it's a lot more of this kind of servile,
serve master, servitude, like psyche.
And I guess it is an extension of,
even during the Roman Empire and stuff,
when like people are understanding that stoicism,
if everything is so bleak externally,
then at least we have some control
and some mastery over our mind.
And therefore you should learn to be as stoic as you can.
And then Christianity as well comes in like
really, really turns that even more,
even like darker is in my flesh is worthless.
And I just give myself over to Christ.
And that's the ultimate way of getting salvation.
And you're living for something else.
You're trying to get to the pearly gates of heaven
as opposed to better your situation around you
or things like that.
So yeah, that relationship creeps.
And I think Christopher Hitchens really talks about it
beautifully when it's like that slave master relationship.
If I don't have a master who slave will I be,
that creeps into it.
But then also vulnerable,
like people who are in some kind of
either really, really bleak situation in life,
all vulnerable, or as you're saying,
like Derek been abused or suffering
from all kinds of conditions,
these kind of like ideologies or let's call them philosophies
to give them that extension for argument.
They are though.
They are for us.
Yeah, they are essentially, yeah.
And they have been very successful.
Again, I have to salute whoever has even done
what they did to Islam and made it this really cemented
like one solution fits all package.
This will solve all of your problems in the world.
This has every answer for every problem in life
you would ever encounter and it will ground you
and control you to the point that,
essentially you're just pretty much a robot
doing the exact same thing five times a day, every day
until you die.
Wow, yeah.
I feel like Christianity does the same.
It has all the answers that you need.
It solves all the problems.
But what you said there is interesting.
Both have common threads, but maybe by the seventh century,
you're dealing with a religion that at its birth
is an empire kind of religion
that it seems was in more of a conquest,
colonial kind of conquest kind of system at the outset.
Whereas I think Christianity very quickly became political
in a different way once you start seeing it become
Romanized or in a political power.
I mean, the political religion of Rome
and three, 400 years later, but even earlier,
you find it trying to usurp the system
in which it's being birthed from.
And I understand like if someone like David needs
this religion to not murder people,
as it seems Matt DeLahunty said,
you said that he said keep that religion for yourself.
I just want viewers to know the facts as much as possible
because I feel like there's a sense in which
we can psych ourselves out and tell ourselves a myth
if we need to to make us feel better.
Best friend of mine overdosed on fentanyl.
His sister called me the day after crying uncontrollably
and just said he was too good for this world.
God took him because he was too good for this world
and he knew that if he said,
she made this whole like thing up in her head.
She said, if God kept him here,
he'd have suffered more and had a struggling life,
but God knew he was too good and he needed to take him now.
And what did I say?
Actually, no, I think that's not true.
No, I just went, you're right,
God did take him from this world.
I went with the myth.
I went with what was best to her situation at the time.
But I think in an educational setting,
when you are constantly pointing the finger
at other religions and not taking the time
to listen to the Muslims themselves
who have had a similar experience,
maybe they haven't hammered their dad in the head,
but they've legit had a conversion experience
that Islam solved and gave them
that feeling the black hole within themselves experience.
You see what I'm saying?
Like their religion's just as valid based on this perception
as Christianity or any other religion
that gives that satisfaction
and fulfills those existential needs.
Yeah, and I don't know how it was for you, Derek,
but obviously, I mean, I'm grateful
you didn't consider Islam once you de-converted,
but you do not, like for me, for a Muslim genuinely,
it is like an afterthought when you've left Islam.
You're like, oh, wait, what about the other two
where we supposedly come from
because it's an extension by Islamic theology, right?
So for me, when Islam went,
I think, because I'd also like started listening
to the Four Horsemen and then I listened
to a lot of Hitchens and Richard Dawkins debate,
but usually they were debating against Christians,
but I was just watching it obviously
because I had not even been exposed
to that kind of material growing up in the Middle East.
And all the time they were talking about Christianity,
I was basically in my head,
I was just compensating it for Islam
or like Islamic concepts.
And I was just like, they are schooling the apologists here
and I was shocked.
It wasn't even like I had to unpack all of Islam
to kind of realize that this is now,
I don't need to turn to any, well, I'm not,
I refuse to turn to any other religion
just straight off the cuff because for me with Islam,
as soon as that, and it's wrong
because I went with the Islamic way of thinking
that they're all connected,
but I was like, I've still got the same questions there
about how the world began, how old the earth is,
the shape of the earth, just things like that.
They all apply still.
And whatever Abrahamic lens you look at it from,
the same arguments kind of find the only,
I guess like privilege I would give to Islam,
again, in the words of Hitchens,
he amazingly, when he said, this really hit home for me
as I was on my journey out and he said,
Islam makes really, really big claims for itself.
And I always, it's so bad,
but you always did feel like a sense of superiority,
you know, like, oh, even Christians and the Jews,
they corrupted their books, they got it wrong,
but we, ours was like preserved, you know,
like it was a final message.
And you do, you feel this kind of, it's messed up,
but you feel that.
And so once I left, I was like, okay,
I should technically look into those,
but when Islam said we're the final message
and the Quran is the word of God,
when one thing goes wrong in Islam, Derek,
it's all gone because if there's a single letter off
in the Quran or a single, you know,
morally reprehensible thing in the Quran,
that's verbatim from God.
At least as a Christian,
I'd probably stay in the fold a bit longer and say,
oh, well, that could be, you know,
it's just the inspired one of God.
So maybe he, this writer got it wrong in that time or place,
whereas Islam, you can't offer that leniency to.
So if you're, so I want to poke into your mind
and your experience as well,
because it's a curious case to watch ex-Muslim
not become a Christian,
because typically Christian apologists
are on the forefront engaging Islam online way more
than you see other secular humanists
and things like that that are usually not as often engaging.
They're out there, it's just not as common
as you see Christian apologists.
And I think that's this brother combat that goes on
because they're so close and similar, but also different.
And there's this like grinding of ideologies,
plus I think there's a huge threat
with Islam growing and Christianity
being the number one religion.
They got to try to stop that,
because where's our argument going to be?
We have the most people who are Christian in the world.
Well, when that changes,
that argument is going to be BS
because now we've got the most Muslims in the world.
Now it'll just switch to, well, yeah, yeah, yeah,
they're just having more babies and so they're coercive.
You know, they're going to come up with some excuse
for those who use these arguments.
In your thinking though, I'm curious to know,
you're saying that Islam is easier to falsify
if you can show there's something
that doesn't fit the narrative
in that particular type of thinking,
whatever version of Islam we're dealing with.
And if the Muslim can see that,
almost like a domino or a ginga effect,
you pull it, the whole tower comes down,
whereas Christians have so many rabbit holes and loopholes
and exit areas to try and get out of these tough pickles,
they've kind of found a way to make Christianity still work,
even if evolution's true and still work,
if Adam and Eve are myth and Abraham's myth,
still true if Jonah didn't get swallowed by a well,
still true even if there's legends in the New Testament,
still true even if Jesus wasn't really born of a verse,
I mean, where do you draw the line, right?
But they find ways to deal with these things.
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, 100% because you can offer Christianity,
I feel like it has a little bit more leeway
and room to play with.
So you can push the boundaries a bit more,
whereas in Islam, if you seriously got a problem
with the ground, you've basically got a problem
with Allah directly, like it's like one-on-one beef.
There's no middleman, there's no inspired writing,
there's no, it's not that kind of equation.
But Derek, to your point, I also wanted to say,
there are a lot of ex-Muslims
that do convert to Christianity.
And my take on this as well is this is where Christian,
like I guess ministry and kind of like polemics
do get a bit dangerous is because I feel like
a large portion of those Christian preachers,
if you will, they are waiting or like almost ready to pounce
on if somebody has just kind of got knocked off
their belief or their faith in Islam,
because of this brotherly, cousinly,
whatever you want to call it, this connection,
there's a lot of ex-Muslims, I still come across them,
who they are ex-Muslim,
but they're not willing to shake their faith in God.
They're still not willing to shake their fear of hell.
They're not willing to accept that,
I guess at least the atheistic or even the agnostic position
of why we're here and how the world came about,
that's just too nihilistic for them.
So again, then they find comfort in,
okay, well, Muhammad said some bad things
or the Hadith say some really screwed up things.
And I don't agree with the Quran,
but oh, I still get to hold on to like
some of my favorite prophets and some of my favorite stories.
And actually they sound better coming from the Bible.
So anything that sounded a bit like aggressive
and like just too intense from the Islamic side,
the Bible seems to be that little soft,
the cushion pad to land on, if you will.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, I get it.
Cause when I was Christian, I thought the same thing.
And when there were horrific acts or deeds,
you could say God was justified
in doing some of these things and find a way to justify it.
Like what we just saw recently on Alex O'Connor's channel
with the justification of the Canaanite slaughter
in the Bible by William Lane Craig.
Like he literally finds a way to God waited,
kept them in Egypt in slavery, by the way,
his own people for 400 years.
So the Canaanites could fill up their sin.
Once they've done enough sin, some of the sin is bestiality,
some of the sin is child sacrifice.
The list goes on and on.
Then the Israelites are justified
in completely eradicating every man, woman and child.
And he goes on record saying, this is just,
you know, he's trying to defend this.
I just think that the same,
if you find horrific things in Islam that look bad,
eradicating a Jewish village or raping women or whatever,
like you can find these ideas in the biblical text.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like Muslims would give arguments for what,
like the genocide of Banu Qareza,
like an entire Jewish tribe.
And they would say, oh yeah, but they broke the treaty
and they'll completely justify reasons why.
And then you can push them further and say,
well, do you think every boy of adolescence
or like that's hip puberty,
they were checking for pubic hair and, you know,
if they had any, then they would be killed.
And it's like, again,
they would find a justification for that as well.
Oh, they would grow up and build an army
against Muhammad or whatever.
But yeah, it's the exact same thing.
And I don't know, maybe it's, I guess,
once you've left a religion,
like I believed in it wholeheartedly
and you did as well, Derek.
But for me, my ears are already on high alert
when, whether I hear it coming from a Christian
or a rabbi or a Islamic scholar,
my ears are on high alert for the same, you know,
that they're playing the same things.
It's got the same circular logic.
Why is it true?
Because the Quran says so.
Because the Bible says so.
Historical architecture, artifacts, everything,
the timelines all work against you.
But no, that book says it is.
And then when the apologists are going at each other,
it does seem a bit like of a, you know,
Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings situation.
So not to be reductionist,
but I mean, you know, it's,
when I'm in debates and I'm in those situations
with theists or whatever.
And then they start a rebuttal with another theistic point.
I say that's not my point to argue at all.
Like,
So your personal experience,
you were fully in believing the whole line.
You didn't have a moment when you were starting
to doubt Islam that maybe I should go to Christianity
or you probably did,
but you stayed in your critical thinking
and then realized like,
actually it sounds a lot like what I'm already dealing with.
It's just got its own problems.
It's just a different story
or a different book that has different context.
What happened to you and your thinking there?
Cause my deconversion,
I didn't go toward Islam.
I didn't, I went toward like more of like a universalist
in a way in my thinking that God may be trying
to reveal itself through all the religions in some way.
That's why there's so much overlap
and commonality among them all.
And it was like a slow two to three year,
maybe four year deconversion
where I gradually started coming more toward a scientific
and naturalist worldview that made more sense
of what I'm seeing on an everyday basis and stuff,
trying to think that way.
What was yours like?
I'm glad Islam didn't entice you Derek.
Oh, you would not be thinking having this conversation today
if you have very different laws.
Can you imagine?
You might be sitting with like the hijabs
and the dawas of you two.
Can you cover your face while I speak to you please?
Oh my God, that just scared me for a second.
I was like, what the fuck is he doing for that?
You need to put on a hijab.
No, I've seen like some Muslim apologists,
by the way, blur, like Candace, whatever her name is,
is recent drama going on with all of them.
Candace, that was, yeah.
They blur her cleavage section
when they show a clip from her.
And I'm like, it makes me want to look more at the blur now
that it's there.
It's like you're making me want to look at your, you know,
like, anyway.
They don't know that that's just making it even worse for them.
But yeah, so Derek, yours is interesting
because it seems like it was a little bit more of a slow burn.
I will say though, just as a disclaimer,
any religion after Islam seems like a little bit
of a breath of fresh air.
I've got some breathing space in this.
So as soon as I had that flash moment where I was like,
no, I've seen enough now.
I can't stay in this religion.
Literally, Derek, the next thought was like, wait,
what about Christianity and Judaism then?
Are they also wrong?
And it just went like, they just felt like dominoes.
I was like, Adam and Eve, I can't do this.
I can't, I can't.
And I had also like really looked into how, you know,
how the hells were so different and like related
to whoever your, whichever like society
or community you're looking at.
So like, you know, the Norse gods in Nordic like mythology,
their hells are like frozen over.
And the Islamic hell conversely is like boiling
and like as Christian princess, he goes like,
they're just gonna, you're gonna be burnt
like a shish kebab over and over again.
And it's true.
And I was like, look, it's just what people's worst nightmare
is to be, you know, endlessly surrounded with.
And yeah, so I guess I was told a lot of misinformation
about Christianity as well.
I didn't know much except for the really lovely parts of it,
which I still really enjoy.
I think I'm more culturally Christian
than I am culturally Muslim because, you know,
I love the Christmas carols, the mass,
I used to do that in school here.
So I got all of the lovely aspects.
And I thought it was, I always thought,
oh, they can at least be merry and drink and they sing.
And Islam, it's like, oh, you get a bit of money on E
then, you know, you've got to sacrifice a goat.
And that's our joy.
It didn't make sense to me.
But yeah, they, they felt like $1, I never doubled.
I'm grateful as well.
I never kind of needed to hold on to even a belief
in God enough or needed to be in kind of a close neighborhood
where I could still have the same characters,
the same mythology and the same story to a certain degree.
I just wanted to like get rid of all the white noise.
I totally get it.
I'm just, thank you for those super chats.
Holy smokes.
I just saw a $50 one.
We will get to your super chats here at the end.
Please forgive me.
I don't want to interrupt the conversation here with Naria
because there's so many good things to cover.
So to be fair, I think it's important
if we're going to be consistent,
which one's more harmful in today's society
as far as we can tell.
And we can see some of the harms,
maybe even politically in the US
with restricting women's rights in many ways,
patriarchal elements that are still left over
from much of the Abrahamic traditions.
As far as Islam goes though,
I jumped on ex-Muslim apostate Aladdin's YouTube channel
the other day because I was like, hold up,
some comment was made by one of the apologist in India,
a Muslim apologist.
There was a woman who was completely covered
describing how her husband married another woman
and then neglected her.
And the entire time the Muslim apologist berated her
in front of everybody, pretty much silencing her
and justifying and saying, you could go to hell
for even criticizing your husband publicly.
Like it was so, the way I told apostate Aladdin
was that there are probably churches in America,
small country, located probably in complete rural areas.
That aren't the popular churches that make it in America
that have a lot of attention.
But there's probably some really backward ideas
that float around in some Christian churches.
However, it seems Christianity's met modernity earlier
and is forced to reckon with secular enlightenment ideas
and try to co-op them and act like they're the ones
who brought those ideas, et cetera,
rather than realizing that what happened in Christianity
is an internal change.
This is why I want reform and I want Muslims
to gradually leave this literalist strict interpretation.
It was Christians first in the Protestant Reformation
who critiqued the Catholic miracle stories.
Then they turned that scalpel, that critical thinking
onto their own Bibles.
So it wasn't atheists and agnostics
and you secular, nerdy, it was you that did this,
no, no, no, no, no, Christians themselves
did this in their own traditions.
And then eventually we see enlightenment
and we start to see what values come forward
from that point onward.
It looks like Islam's a little bit behind in those things.
I may be wrong, but tell me your thoughts as an ex-Muslim.
Yeah, I mean, I would think that,
so my understanding was especially,
especially like in the UK and like Europe in general,
it is definitely, again, just because it's the youngest
religion as well, and it is, we'll give it to them
and it's the fastest growing according to birth rates,
but exactly what you said,
this kind of head-on encounter with modernity,
if you will, or like a renaissance
or enlightenment values or rationality.
Like even Judaism had its own enlightenment period
and I've actually read into it,
I forgot the name of it, it's a specific name,
but obviously that happened a very, very long time ago.
And then we see the same thing happen to Christianity
and it's been watered down, watered down.
And then obviously, you know,
you've kind of got the fundamentalists in America
and that's why I actually wanna ask you as well.
I really wanna get your opinion
on how dangerous is Christianity
because maybe I'm undermining,
let's say what could happen when people are actually,
you know, wanting the end of days to come
and they think that Trump and guns and the end times,
these things go hand in hand.
So, I mean, those things together can,
but they're scary ingredients.
And then like you said, Roe v. Wade,
to again, to my British mind,
that was crazy that that could even happen in like,
you know, this day and age,
I've never had to even confront something like that
from a legal perspective in the UK.
It's just always been a fundamental right here.
Anyway, as far as I was like,
as far as I've grown up anyway.
So yeah, the fact that that can happen
at the drop of a hat almost,
and things can be reversed,
things that have been fought so hard for,
that's kind of where I'd like you to like,
yeah, let me know your thoughts.
But when it comes to Islam,
I think definitely because as you're saying, Derek,
the literalist interpretation is so readily there
for the taking because it's in the Quran.
And this is why I struggle with Islam reforming
is because there is always gonna be a fringe element
of people who will say,
but to me, this book says this,
and this is how we've been interpreting it for 1400 years.
This is exactly the way the Prophet lived it
in his lifetime.
And when we're supposed to emulate his example,
why the hell can we change it now?
And I don't think you would ever get the Islamic ummah
to agree on changing.
How can you even, Derek,
if you think about like, you know,
how could you even go about changing the word of God?
Because then the claims that Islam makes for itself,
therefore God is fallible.
And then everything Islam holds to be true is gone
because you've again, you've questioned Allah.
But for me, it is the absolute political Islam
that it's so easily taken off the pages of the Quran,
interpreted from the Hadiths.
You just Google like the top terrorists organizations
based on size and casualties they've caused
with a strict religious purpose or affiliation,
they are all Islamic.
And they can argue amongst themselves
that they're not and they don't represent it.
And you can argue the no true Scotsman
till the cows come home.
But that's why I think like when we look at the world today
and you look at what's happening,
and I'm like, whether you talk about terrorist attacks
or the treatment of women or child marriages
or honor killings, issues with FGM,
this is all happening because Islam has not had that brush
with modernity in the way that it has.
It's almost just like it's constantly just being pushed back
of it and it just keeps, you know,
warming its way in through various means.
Paul, there's so many forms of jihad,
but yeah, I don't wanna ramble, so I'll let you come back.
I actually want you to ramble
because you have so much insight in a different world
that I'm not familiar with on that level.
My perception, just to make one quick comment
and I'd love to have you keep elaborating is,
I'm just gonna say it like I think it is
based on what I've observed.
Islam overall, worldwide, in the current times.
Okay, we're not talking my history
because we can go and find some dirt,
real bad dirt on the conquest of Christianity
in South America and really throughout the world
that we would call jihad.
We would consider this extremism 101
and it would look like the Taliban.
Okay, and you can find these examples
of how extreme Christianity has been,
but I have to admit, right now,
I think you have almost like a ticking time bomb
potential fundamentalist, Christian nationalist
kind of ideas in America.
Overall, it looks like Islam, though,
with these extremists and the deaths
and the terrorism that does come up
looks like it is worse in this respect.
But you do have a, you have guys on YouTube
and they're typically white guys
making these comments about women shouldn't vote.
I've even heard some of them go so far as to say
only house owners, that means initially
this is why you didn't have women
nor blacks voting in America.
They kind of wanna go backwards in time
and take away a lot of the rights
and the freedoms that we see.
Women have one sole purpose, it's to repopulate.
It's to produce your child
and you hear that in Islam as well.
So like they serve this kind of,
I need a baby making machine utility.
These are more of like extreme Christian nationalist
Christian ideas in America.
Whereas in the UK, I don't know,
there might be some like really small cult groups here
and there, but overall Christianity's watered down,
tamed and actually just like a cultural thing
where let's go enjoy Christmas.
I love the idea of the bells and the Santa Claus
and the Christmas tree and Jesus was born
and there's the manger.
Like that's all pretty and fun.
I like it.
I love Christmas time.
I love celebrating Easter.
I love like all this stuff.
So yeah, it looks like that is bad.
But how do we get Muslims to see
that the Quran is loaded with myth and legend?
How do we do that?
Because I talked to Javad Hashmi,
which you've heard and know, Harvard University.
He's a devout Muslim.
And he says, I've been speaking in the,
what are they called?
Not synagogue, but the mosques.
And he's been teaching about myth in the Quran.
And he's been teaching that.
And I'm like, now this is in America,
but what if we could get Muslims to start recognizing
that their tradition is legend and myth as well.
They have a lot of myth and legend stories in theirs.
And it's not what literally happened.
That would be a great progress, but anyway.
That would be, I mean, I would wish for that to happen.
And you know what Derek?
The thing is, there are bits of that,
like staring them in the face.
If you read the Quran,
like the issue with the satanic verses, for example,
you have to confront that like, oh my God,
like that happened and Muhammad mistook,
God's words for the devil's words,
but also what was he talking about?
He was alluding to three pagan goddesses.
And then there's obviously that that relates to,
you know, the pagan religion at the time,
but then they try and say,
oh, that's just like mythology.
So wherever they want to apply mythology to,
obviously keep Islam from that scrutiny,
they're happy to apply it.
Like for example, in America,
there's a church that opened,
I believe it might have been Houston,
but I could be wrong.
It's an LGBT, like friendly church.
Sorry, church, mosque.
And I was like, how?
How?
And then when we have the exact same story of Prophet Lot,
Hazrat Lut in Arabic,
and you know, the story of what happened to his people.
And yet they're trying to say,
oh no, that I don't know how you can,
again, cognitive dissonance or rationalize it,
but they still think that even with that in the Quran,
and then with all the prohibitions against it
and the punishments in Sharia,
they still would open a mosque
and say, you're all welcome.
And don't get me wrong,
I'm no one's like, if that's the way Islam needs to progress
and those are the avenues it needs to take.
Sure.
If you were actually willing to, let's say,
rationally dismiss what the theology,
the theological basis is,
then sure, you know, we can have,
I mean, this kind of like the situation
of the quiz for Palestine,
but it's that level of I'm ignoring this chunk
of all of this data,
all of the corpus of the actual text.
But that's the only way I can see it happening really,
is if people choose to accept what's there
and still go against it.
Because otherwise for me,
I can't see a push where Islam
has tried to cement itself in this way.
And that's why, again,
you're always gonna get fundamentalism happening
in the backdrop,
because just how fundamental Christians are looking for,
you know, to bring on the end times,
Muslims have those hadiths that say,
you know, there is gonna be a final battle
and it will be between the Muslims and the Jews.
And, you know, there is gonna be a second coming
and you have to follow, you know,
you have to follow Christ
and you have to figure out who the Antichrist is
and all of this stuff.
But they are so held bent on this,
again, it's the same thing with Christianity.
This is why I can't stand any of these religions
is because that promise of this afterlife,
and I think we can touch on this a bit more if you want,
but this kind of like succumbing this life up
for just, and Islam is even so bad in the sense
of how much it deprives someone in this life.
Especially like, you know,
that the basic pleasures there,
like basic desires and like generally,
like part of the human experience,
I should even laugh about it
because there's such integral human experience,
like it should be a diverse experience.
And Islam says to have this really unnatural almost,
you know, like a tiger locked up in a cage constantly,
but yet you're on the other side of the cage,
you're seeing like this heaven
of absolutely everything you could ever imagine.
So for me, yeah, I struggled with Reformation.
I know we have people like Jared Hashmi,
we have people who call themselves progressive scholars
or modernist scholars, Imam Tauhidi,
the Imam of peace.
I think, I mean, I appreciate the sentiments
and what they're doing.
I just don't know how fruitful it will be.
That's very interesting.
It makes me think that interpretation,
the meaning of things change over time.
People are able to look past them.
I've seen some of the more moderate,
Quran-onlyist type Muslims online try to say,
you know, there's no beating of the wife.
You know, I can't even remember their names,
but like there's people who are trying to argue
that the Quran doesn't teach you can beat your wife
or they're trying to get those ugly things out
and say, hey, we need to interpret this
in a whole new light.
And I feel like what part of my deconversion,
and I wonder if we could almost take
a single person's experience and just multiply it
on a grand scale for the overall religion itself,
there's probably faults in this comparison,
but I feel like when you have this overflow
of various interpretations and ideas as potential answers
to what the meaning of things might be,
that starts to create a doubt and lowers the confidence
in how dogmatic I should be
about what this text actually says or means.
And it defends that staunch literalism
if you're willing to go down that path.
And that's what happened to me when my bubble popped,
I didn't become an atheist overnight.
I went and said, hold on,
there's maybe a deeper meaning behind this.
Maybe there's something else going on in the story
that I'm reading and I started opening up to myth and legend,
still a theist and still believe in God
and pray in the whole nine,
but I had a new way of kind of trying
to understand these things.
So I'd like to see that happen with Islam,
but the way you're describing it
as someone who's been through it,
especially as a female, it's just horrific,
like really, really bad.
And it makes me think Christianity is a head
in that regard toward women, overall.
I think Christianity's had a bit more of,
like obviously it's got a bit more time to calm down.
Like you said, if we go back a couple of hundred years,
we can pinpoint some serious atrocities.
And again, you would arguably think that at that time,
we've got to deal with this insurrection by Christianity
or what they're making women go through
or what they're doing to society overall
or how they're just suppressing whatever progress humanity
is trying to make for various reasons
and all the violence and terror or whatever.
And you can argue that they had some peaceful elements.
Of course it did in the same way that you could argue
some Islamic elements have come out
and tried to be a lot more peaceful in their approach.
Some would argue Sufis are a lot more esoteric
and then they're not looking
for these literalist interpretations.
They're very much happy,
almost like taking that monochistic approach
to connecting with God, if you will.
But again, I just, when it comes to like the hold
that this religion has, when you said,
I agree with you completely.
If something is open to so many interpretations,
I used to think this is a child as well.
How, especially again, the claim Islam makes
that God's Allah says the Quran
is a clear book of guidance for you.
And I'm like, if it's a clear book of guidance,
why are there no two Muslims that can agree with each other?
It made no sense.
And you're right, it did water it down
because as a child, when I lived in Saudi
and I would like see the, like hear about the headings
and, you know, see the Islamic police,
like the batons and being really aggressive.
And I would ask my parents for answers
because I didn't think that's what a God would, you know,
be enforcing like that, totalitarianly on earth.
And my parents just said, that's Saudi Islam.
Like that's not us.
And again, we're differentiating.
You know, that's Wahhabi Islam.
We don't follow that.
Who are we then?
Oh, we're just some Sunni.
Well, what sect of Sunni?
Just, just the one that's, you know,
she's the right way to do that.
The right Sunni, yeah.
The right Sunni, I go for her.
That is so funny.
Yeah, that's what my process was like
when you realize how many denominations
and how many theological points
and Christians arguing for centuries,
free will or predestination, you know,
there's so many different ideas
and how serious some of the proponents of those views
say, if you think you achieved salvation at all,
then you're not really saved because it's monogistic
and there's terms and theological ideas
that they would use to describe it and all.
And the other side saying, no,
you're making God this dictator and evil
and the author of evil.
And therefore you're actually worshiping a demon
and not really worshiping a God.
And like, so Christians are saying Christians aren't Christians
and you find this over and over in Christianity,
which again, we find in Islam, I mean, like, it's like,
but what would these apologists,
if I'm criticizing Christian apologists
who are pointing the finger at Islam,
I'm not saying you're not right
about pointing a finger at Islam.
I'm not even saying that what you might be saying
about Islam isn't true.
I'm just saying it's a blind spot like hell
when I see it happening in Islam and Christianity,
but the one thing they'll do is they'll go,
but the difference is our guy, Jesus,
versus the Muslim guy, Muhammad and their character.
And so that's also, by the way,
if you enter the critical scholarly realm,
that also is up for debate
on exactly what Jesus was, who he was.
It sounds like we have better sources to depict Muhammad.
It sounds like, I know there are hundreds of years later,
but you get elements of it.
He was probably a warlord, apocalypticist maybe,
at some point in his ministry, I'll call it a ministry,
and his conquest of bringing in this new religion,
which eventually became its own empire,
and religious kind of empire,
that goes and moves into the world
and has a massive conquest second to the Mongolians in history.
But with Jesus, he probably was, again,
another false prophet who made apocalyptic claims,
a revolutionary person who was probably extreme
in his rhetoric of God coming in
and destroying the empire that was probably at the time,
and critiquing other Jews
in their particular versions of Judaism,
which we see elements of in the Gospels over and over
about them misunderstanding or taking things too far.
Can we work on the Sabbath?
Oh, we're doing his pickin' food.
Like, what are you talkin' about?
We're not working.
David did it too, and like,
but he was probably a radical cult leader
of a small group of people,
and I wouldn't say everything he taught
was a good thing necessarily.
If you take the Gospels,
and what they say Jesus said to the bank.
So Christians, inevitably, I think the teaching of Jesus
is too difficult for most people to even try to live
because it's hate this life kind of model
that you see in the Gospels.
And in Paul, go to your death, carry your cross.
Which, what did it mean to take up your cross
and follow Jesus?
Amit, go to die for him.
How many Christians do you see do that?
Okay, not common.
It was easier to make it a political religion
that actually would be able to weaponize
and find ways to go and conquer
and do what I think comes natural
in patriarchal societies and antiquities.
So, I don't know.
Yeah, and even Derek that like the sheep,
like shepherd kind of analogies throughout like this,
very much like, yeah, just be led,
like have, just be a follower, an absolute follower.
But again, you're right, like I was shocked
because I'd only heard of Jesus' light.
Like when I even got wind of the fact that there were,
what about the dark teachings of Jesus?
I never even knew that there were certain quotes
or sayings attributed to him
that could potentially take a turn for the worse,
essentially.
So, when I was exposed to that as well,
I was like, oh, that's interesting
because all we're ever taught is love thy neighbor
and he who hasn't sin cast the first stone
and Jesus has none of the marital colorful life,
shall I say, for lack of a better word compared to Mohammed.
So, he's already got a massive clean slate in that regard
because Mohammed's life isn't straight.
Like his personal life is so disastrous
and it calls into question, you know, him being a prophet,
not that there's ever a true prophet,
but it calls into question his prophethood, let's say.
And I always felt like, again,
Jesus was shielded from that, but you're right.
If you look into the scholarship,
there are arguments to be had for all of the same pinpoint
like Mohammed, he turned away from what his father's
or let's say like, you know,
the general people around him were believing at the time.
As soon as he amassed something, he talked about,
he genuinely believed in apocalyptic times.
He thought that like we were nearing the ends back then.
So again, that that flies in the face of Muslim saying
the end times was coming
because Mohammed thought it was coming
while he was still alive pretty much.
But yeah, you're right that there's also those parallels
of how, you know, they broke away
like Mohammed crushing the idols
and then teaching them the new ways
that the ways that were everything before this was
the Jahiliya or the era of ignorance.
And now we're, we're cleansed of that.
I guess it's the same way that, you know, Jesus broke off
or at least how Christianity essentially
as a sect started to break away the first Christians anyway.
But yeah, that the parallels are wild.
It's interesting there's a scholar Hector Avalos,
he's dead now, who is well aware of Old Testament,
New Testament and he points out that he thinks
we can go to ancient Hebrew Bible stuff
and you and me could probably jaw drop
and think about some of the crazy stuff,
human sacrifice, elements of a Jeffa's daughter,
Canaanite conquest of absolute annihilation
of the Canaanites in the land,
finding places where Yahweh seems to be behind
the killing of people and is like, you know, good,
destroy them, the evil people and stuff.
And most people go, whoa, that God can't be the God
that I believe in, which spawned a group
in early Christianity like the Marcianites
who said that Jesus' father was a different God.
There's no way that Jesus' father can be that God.
And so they found a way to say that's an evil God.
He's the evil demiurge, the evil creator who created
where we see this world that's full of hate and evil.
But Jesus' God is actually a God of love.
I just wanna point out, Avalos says he even thinks
it's arguable that the New Testimony is even more violent
than the old.
And I'm like, well, how did you do that now?
I know this is debatable, but his point is that
if you take it at face value,
the Hebrew Bible lacks eternal conscious torment
and burning in hell or any of those notions.
If you take it that the shepherd is going to separate
the sheep from the goat, the wheat from the shaft,
and that he will be in charge of saying,
depart from me, you workers of iniquity.
I never knew you being the judge of all the living
and the dead and end up having you be tormented
for all eternity.
Then in a sense, Jesus is the biggest dictator
and you think the Holocaust is bad.
Try an everlasting burning oven for human beings, okay?
So now we put it into perspective.
Of course, I think that's completely fictive,
but people do believe this stuff
and actually think this is literally true.
So he said it's technically even more horrific
than a human in real life,
especially if you have all eternity
to pay for the rewards of things that are happening.
In real life, killing someone is nothing compared
to this ongoing forever and ever torment
that Jesus is going to be the judge and ruler of.
And one little fact that I just want to point out
about the book of Revelation.
There's a book that was just done
called Armageddon by Bart Diemann,
but he goes through some of the history of the scholarship
and how it was utilized in combat situations,
in war times, who are the enemies?
Well, we can find in our revelation,
pinpoint and say, hey, this is fulfilling prophecy.
And oftentimes when early Christian Zionists, of course,
were playing a role in some of the stuff
that's going on in the Middle East,
they wanted to make the second coming of Jesus happen sooner.
So they coercively involved their money
and they're trying to make Jesus come back
who destroyed the enemy.
It's like they just like, yes, Lord, come
and kill them all kind of mentality, very violent.
So even if they aren't violent themselves,
let's just say they have kind of a pacifistic way of life,
their mentality is violent.
And that doesn't mean they wouldn't get behind someone
who's violent and things like that.
This is what's really scary though, Derek,
like when they actually think like that,
that's why I'm trying to ask you,
like how dangerous can this mentality go?
Cause if you seep in, yeah, I want to bring on the end times
and even like with this conflict in the Middle East,
you can see like some evangelical Christians were,
you know, yeah, like you said, making moves
in the sense that we want to see this battle play out
and we know whose side we're on.
And again, this is all scripture related and inspired.
You have to, we have to at least, you know,
make that connection.
It is.
So how, is this an alarmingly like
worrying number of people, like is this what the average,
like fundamental Christian thinks in their living room
that this is what they genuinely want to happen?
I don't want to, I can't judge every fundamentalist
because I think they're shades of gray fundamentalism.
It's not a, it's all, but I do think it's very prevalent
because we're so in the West, we're so polar opposite.
You're Democrat, you're liberal, you're woke,
the list goes on and on, you're right wing,
you're Nazi, you're this, it's so polarizing.
And then couple that with some of the fanaticism we find
in the religion and the beliefs
that underlies some of the stuff.
Yeah, it's like a volcano, I feel, that mighty erupt.
And so while we're trying to grant Christianity's
met modernity, and we can see that, I mean,
it's evident that Christianity in many places
is a philosophy that has calmed down
and it's not necessarily on the same conquest.
But some people argue that the political drive
of people in the West, some of the people in charge
are motivated.
Their conquest motivated with Christianity
is an underlying philosophy that drives them
to do some of the things they do.
Sure, you can find elements that are very good teachings,
the golden rule, help the poor, help the widow,
help the hungry, clothe those who have no clothes.
But you can find that in Hebrew scriptures too.
And I can show you some pretty grotesque literature
in the Hebrew scriptures about how God
and Israelites are supposed to act
or how they're supposed to go and kill
and all these things.
So you can find good and ugly in all of them,
including Islam, I would say.
There are many things I'm sure we could go to
and go, that's actually a good teaching.
That's a good thing, I think here.
But you and me have chips on our shoulders
and can easily quickly go, yeah, but what about this?
I mean, dressing women in garbage bags
and like, what about like all this crazy stuff?
The good outweighs the bad by far.
Sorry, the bad outweighs the good.
I knew what you meant.
I knew what you meant.
By far, yeah.
And the good things, again,
we're probably all low-key doing anyway
and they're very basic.
I mean, Derek said like the golden rule,
we don't really even have that in Islam per se,
not from God himself.
Maybe you'll find some nice fluffy hadiths on that.
But yeah, like giving charity, again,
it's not the best in Islam,
it's for Muslims first to follow Muslims.
So again, Islam is not the easiest
to find really, really nice things.
You could say like, oh yeah, be kind to your parents,
but it's only if they also believe in Allah
and heaven lies that your mother's feet was what we were told
that hadith does not exist, it's made up.
So I don't know, there's probably some nice things.
I thought there is a hadith somewhere.
I'm not sure the strength of it,
but it says obey the law of the land that you're in.
And for me, I was like, but that's good.
Maybe more Muslims should be doing that in Western countries.
But yeah, it's always pick and choose with that.
But Derek, I just want to ask you one thing real quickly
as well, just something weird that I experienced today,
and I'm sure it's the same in Christianity.
But I basically attended this session at lunchtime today
to overcome the taboo of mental health
in Muslim communities.
And they were trying to tell us how to deal with clients
of Muslim faiths.
And they were like a lot of the reasons
that Muslims don't, AFA will recognize mental health
or don't get help for it.
You know how we were mentioning the prison situation
and how it's really easy to be usurped by a certain ideology
if it kind of makes you feel better at the time.
But they were giving so many reasons,
which I also understand like,
I can see mental health is rife
throughout the Muslim community here.
I would say even members of my own extended family,
I would think they've just lived and left undiagnosed
for so long because either at some point
they were told that they were possessed
or they thought themselves that they had no joke, Derek.
And I think this might sound weird to some of your
like non ex-Muslim or Muslim viewers,
but genuinely that somebody had put like a spell
of black magic on them.
And so you just kind of have to like do weird things
like burn chilies and check a thread
and walk through a graveyard to like undo it
because all these weird things could have been done to you.
Or it's Allah's will and he wants you to experience this
because even in the Quran it says,
he will not give you anything like a burden to large
that you can't shoulder.
So all of these reasons are why people don't get
like help for mental health as well.
And then what they did, Derek, it was crazy.
Like there's so many hadiths
where the prophet has mentioned ridiculous cures for things.
Like he says, black human,
I think it's black seed oil is like the Alexia of life.
It cures everything but death.
He said things like if a fly drops,
a fly wing drops in your drink,
just put the other wing in and it's fine to drink.
And he says you can wash, like do ablution in water
that's been filled in an area with menstrual pads
or not pads, they didn't have them in those days,
but like menstrual cloths and where dogs have peed.
And he's like, water is water.
It's just, it's never dirty or clean.
And he said all these things,
but they chose two hadiths in this, and this is the UK.
Okay, and this is like an impartial supposedly organization
part of the National Health Service.
And they picked two hadith where the prophet,
and again, they have, I'm glad they're doing this
because the Muslim community needs support,
but it's so cherry picked.
Like they found the two weakest hadiths,
the weakest chains in the link.
And the lady that was presenting
actually mistook the hadith for the Quran
and said, this is from the Quran, Al-Bukhari.
And then she read it and I was just like, my jaw dropped.
I was like, wow.
And all of these like, obviously,
non-Muslim practitioners are there.
Like, thank you so much.
They literally, Derek said,
the first mental health hospital was opened in Islam
in Baghdad in like, I don't know what, 800 and something.
And all of these like non-Muslim people are like,
wow, it's so nice to learn about Islamic history.
I'm gonna tell this next time.
And I was like, the amount of misinformation
was spreading on like a policy level.
And this just makes me realize
why I have to keep doing what I'm doing even more.
But I'm sure it's the same thing with Christianity,
like mental health, not recognizing it
combined with all these vulnerable states and abuse.
And then being said that this is God's plan
or like, you know, it's just,
it's the cycle of abuse will continue.
You'll never heal.
You're describing my own experience.
So I know that this has to be something
that fundamentalist in America.
I say it's fundamentalist because I'm pretty positive
when you go into different avenues of Christianity
and I'm not gonna name which ones
cause I don't know exactly would say,
hey, look, this is not a demon.
These are not devils or Satan or anything like that.
This is something, you know, mental health.
You need to go to a doctor.
This is physiological, this is physical.
This has nothing to do with good, bad.
And you gotta respect people when they do that,
when they are able to do that in their traditions.
But without a doubt, I was told the reason I had addiction
to drugs is either I had a curse on me
and Jesus can supposedly break all curses.
I had either demons in me, spirits that controlled me
or that in some way were enslaving me to the drug.
And the same went for masturbation.
Why did we naturally do these things?
This is actually a spirit.
This is a demon, this is Satan.
And they never said this is natural
because there's been an unhealthy relationship
between the body and nature within Christianity
at its outset, especially thanks to the way Platonism,
the philosophy of Plato and this lower world we live in
because higher's good, lower's bad,
where you have the material world, this is a bad world.
Blessed is bad, the New Testament talks about over and over.
Stex is not a good thing.
Jesus encourages people to become eunuchs even
in the gospel of Matthew.
And of course, origin, early church father
from what I can tell, many scholars think
he may have actually cut the whole thing off
and became a eunuch.
So whether Jesus taught that, that's up for grabs too.
But at the end of the day, like it's gearing
two different ideas for keep repopulating,
keep having babies, and women are saved
through this process to don't have any more babies.
The end is tomorrow.
There's no reason to do this.
Try not to focus on the flesh,
a resistance to these natural tendencies.
And so that's taught in a many fundamental circles,
they're reading face value, what these texts say,
and at least it seems that way,
that that's what the original texts seem to be implying.
And fundamentalism can see some of that stuff.
And I think accurately or portraying what a lot
of the stuff we see in the New Testament
would have probably meant to the context
in which it was written,
and they're applying it to the 21st century.
Sorry for rambling to give you all this stuff,
but I thought I had demons.
I thought I had spirits.
And when I finally went down a more scientific,
more of a natural world, as a theist,
as a believer in God, not a naturalist,
but realized that the solutions to these problems
were not in spiritual remedies.
They were not in this book.
They were not in God and these ideas.
It was actually in natural sociological,
psychological behavior,
like changing your behavioral patterns type of settings.
And of course, even in those settings,
like the 12 step groups of Alcoholics Anonymous,
Narcotics Anonymous, they say it's God.
But in fact, as I've studied further,
it's the social group that makes you feel connected.
It's the people in the group
that help you heal in that process
because we evolved to be social creatures and to connect.
And when you get an addiction, for me, I isolate
and I don't connect.
I try to hide.
I'm ashamed.
And I try to hide.
So getting connection is what helped me get clean.
Anyway, I just gave you my conversion story.
I love it.
I love it.
Each time I hear you getting that agency back
and then even looking at using the 12 step program,
but then even detaching the God element from that
and saying, actually, this is just part of the natural human
experience of coming together for a collective cause,
feeling that motivation.
I love it.
I can hear it a hundred more times there.
I love hearing this.
Hey, women and men.
Right?
Oh, yeah, good.
I didn't think you liked that.
That's a funny, funny, funny.
I think, wasn't there something like that
in the not too distant past?
Someone did like, hey, woman, some joke on Twitter or something.
I must have missed it.
I don't want to leave anything out
that you might want to add to this
before we get to super chats.
I think this has been a heck of a discussion.
And I'm sure you and I can go and go.
And there's so much to talk about that we could cover.
But is there anything that you might want to get off your chest,
something that you thought about
that you didn't get to talk about?
Oh, thank you for asking.
No, I will let you get to super chats.
I think I would just probably like to obviously say that.
I'm really grateful that we did have this conversation
because I try and make time to do this as well where,
yes, I've left Islam,
but I also do reject other religions and worldviews
for the very same reasons that I have rejected Islam.
They pose the same problems and the same threats,
albeit not as extensively at the minute as Islam.
Again, this can vary contextually,
but in general, my genuine fight is against Islam.
But all of these genuine fights and battles
for a more rational, secular, progressive world
where religions will be protected,
but they're just not going to be shoved down our throats
in the same way in the way that we're seeing in America
or here in England.
So I think that's where we come together.
I love like teaming up with people like Derek
who's willing to go that full mile.
It's like you leave, you go through something,
you see it for what it is and you share that experience,
but then you be intellectually honest
and you follow that journey wherever it leads you.
And I think that's what your channel is doing,
which is amazing.
But I just want to say to anyone that's listening,
like even me having left Islam
for what maybe six years now, five, six years I'm coming to,
I am still unlearning.
Like this, you know, every sometimes news events
trigger me to unlearn preconceived notions or ideas
that I had this conflict in the Middle East
taught me how much like just crap I held in my mind
once upon a time, certain views that I held
that I'm still in the process of actively like learning
about to unlearn if that makes sense.
So yeah, I'm really grateful for this conversation.
I think Derek and I can have a million of these,
but I mean, it's never enough
because this is a continual process of unlearning
and hopefully like as we said in the beginning,
if you look into a religion,
honestly like searching for some kind of truth to it,
holding truth to being what truth actually means,
you will see common patterns
and a common denominator through all of them.
And then they go, especially like even if you go out
and you go into the real world, you will see that.
I love what you said in your video about,
sorry, I forgot the doctor's name,
but holy sites always remain holy.
We learned the same thing at university here.
Every time Islam conquered,
it was on a pre-existing either Christian site
or like, you know, some kind of even pagan site
and they've just, if you archeologically dig,
you will see the cultures overtaking each other.
So yeah, that's all I'm gonna say.
That's why I absolutely love Derek's work,
but thank you Derek, it was an epic chat.
Yeah, it's always great talking to you.
It's been a minute and everyone should subscribe
to Holy Humanist.
For anyone who doesn't know,
I have a playlist on Islam
from a critical scholarly standpoint.
So for those who wanna go,
you love to always critique Christianity.
Totally guilty, I was a Christian.
What am I supposed to do?
Talk about a religion that I'm not as aware of.
Anyway, I have my own bones to pick with it
because of the harm it has caused me
and there's a bit of freedom when you realize
that you can have fun with the Bible in a whole new way.
It's not, I always believe this literally
and read this one, no, no, no, no, no, no,
critical scholarship.
Holy Humanist, subscribe please to her YouTube channel.
I hope she gets more and more and more attention
because we need free thought.
We need people who have broken of the chains,
the shackles of some of the harmful things
we see in religion.
And one thing I like about YouTube in area is
how friendly you are even to people who are in it.
Because you understand that they're, in a sense,
victims of the same thing that you were.
And are you gonna judge yourself simply
because if you met yourself in this religion at the time?
No, a lot of us are victims of the very thing
and we have to empathize and understand
that there's something cognitive, psychological,
about being in it.
And so judging them because they're in it,
I guess what I'm saying is, is hate the game,
don't hate the player.
Amen for you, Derrick.
Yeah, you know what I'm saying?
Like in this situation, you can be critical of the religion.
You can be critical of the books, the literature,
the ugly things that are in it.
And people, if they are being ugly,
but there are many people, there are lots of people
who just don't know and maybe trapped,
not knowing, can't see it.
They're stuck, cognitive dissonance, who knows what?
So try to be patient the best you can, empathize.
And I hope they do the same for us,
from their side of the fence, yeah.
Yeah, that's the least we can ask for.
We're not asking for too much, are we?
We're offering that car to see,
surely we deserve it back.
That's just civility now.
Exactly, exactly.
So thank you for your time and coming in here
because you're busy, you're very busy.
Let's try and get through these.
Yeah, yeah.
Sorry.
Do you want me to stick around for these, Derrick?
I can stick around for this.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
I won't keep you too long.
That's fine.
Address something you and I both have said.
Seth of Valhalla, thank you for the super chat.
How about this answer from a former Christian
and then a former Muslim?
Both are made up by men.
I'm gonna enjoy this.
That's pretty.
Thank you for that.
Tushae.
Well, I saw Derrick's title and I was like,
yeah, both are nonsense, but here we go, let's do it.
Right.
Poppy, John, thank you for the super chat.
We all need to get along and take care of each other
no matter what beliefs we have.
I agree.
It's hard though.
Anyone mind what you think?
It is hard to when we have such polarizing views
and it's part of our identity.
Like people criticize atheists all the time.
I don't bat an eye.
It doesn't even matter to me.
Like if I'm wrong about my particulars,
okay, agnosticism is a very reasonable position, I think.
If, let's just say I was wrong about atheism
at the end of the day,
I'm pretty confident about these deities
and these books being manmade and not being true.
And there's many ways to falsify that philosophically,
textually, there's a lot of interesting things.
So, but yeah, I agree with Poppy, John here.
I think we should try to get along no matter what.
Same, call out Islamists,
but get along with everyone else.
Thank you.
Ronan of Stagg, thank you.
I think thank you.
Is that what this was?
I think it's thank you in numerals, yeah.
Thank you so much for being here and your channel, Nuria.
Oh, thank you, Ronan.
Thank you for being here and for your super chat.
Thank you so much.
Mario, let's go to the next one here.
Mario Marufo, just saw her on Seth Andrews,
much respect though I have some geopolitical issues
like the official US support for jihadism
over the past 40 years.
Thank you, Mario.
Yeah, I love that interview with Seth.
So I've looked into more of the UK support for jihadism.
So I would love to hear your thoughts on the US
and what you think the US, how they've been funding them.
I know that universities have been really affected
and they've literally infiltrated like the education sector
because that's also how they radicalized a lot of people
in like my father's generation.
But yeah, I would love to dive into this deeper with you.
Again, I don't know enough about the US
kind of dealings with Islam,
but I would love to pick your brains on that at some point.
Yeah, from what I've heard and as someone
who's not up to speed on all geopolitical issues and such,
that America funded many of these radical groups
to fight against Russia in the 90s.
We had a Cold War and so we backed up radicalizing
the very people that turned against us
that we then had to fight eventually.
And you could even go so far as to say
maybe even some of that funding played a role in,
I'm not putting all the blame, everyone shares blame here,
but like in some of what we see with Bin Laden
and how all that plays out, America has a role
in radicalizing many people in the Middle East.
And of course, it's pretty crazy to hear how many
of these people we considered good guys
turned them into terrorists who attack us.
From freedom fighters to terrorists, yeah.
I guess it's like, obviously,
when the importation of democracy doesn't go
according to plan, there's like a vacuum that's left.
And then these people are already armed up
and that they then become the force that now
you have to confront as opposed to the ones
who are helping you keep another force at bay.
But yeah, it's a messy situation.
Yeah, thank you, Mario.
Robert, good to see you here.
Robert Mahaney, thank you for being in the chat.
I hope I didn't miss any comment by you, my friend.
Usually you'll drop one and then not have a comment.
I'm trying to scroll up to make sure I didn't miss it.
Stop scamming, man.
Mnag and the hizzy.
Stop scamming, man.
I'm trying not to make sure I miss anything
in case you wanted to say something specific.
All right, apologize for the time here.
Bear with me.
There's a lot of comments today.
No, you're sparking interest here.
I think people are enjoying it.
Okay, I can't find it.
Oh, Robert, okay.
I don't think he had a comment though,
because it was just the super chat here without words.
So I'm gonna move forward.
Mnag with the massive super in the house.
Really, thank you so much for the support.
Would it be fair to say that at this point in time,
Islam is the most dangerous religion,
seems like Muslim men are the most part, the most extreme.
What are your thoughts on that
as someone who knows Islam?
I would say, I would still stand by saying,
yeah, Islam is definitely the most dangerous religion
in modern times.
It's like the biggest kind of cancer
that's like a stain on humanity that we have to fight.
And yes, to make the, like logically it would follow
that Muslim men, therefore the most extreme
because they're the ones who are enabling this
and keeping it going in the way that it's going.
And again, Muslim women,
when Derek was mentioning like victims,
the reason we treat them as victims of Islam
is because women are very much at the behest of men
in this ideology, but if Muslim women were to leave,
then Muslim men would not have the access
to increasing numbers by these high birth rates
and things like that.
And Islam would not be even growing at the level
that it's growing.
But yeah, if you look at the major threats
to just current progress and modernity,
it is jihadi groups.
And these are quite literally, sorry,
Salafi, Wahhabi, really literalist interpreting Muslims.
And again, very disenfranchised
from wherever they're coming from,
there's potential reasons behind it,
but one of them is the Quran.
So yeah, I would agree with you, Emnag.
And thank you so much for your support for Derek's channel.
Thank you, thank you.
I definitely don't feel,
I mean, I could give my thoughts,
I do think that's the case as well,
but I would wanna look even more into that,
look at numbers and such,
and you've done all that,
that's why it's good that you're commenting on it.
Nuri Suna, thank you so much for the super chat.
Accounts mentioning wars of Muhammad
aren't accepted by many academics,
but Derek, I have a book coming out soon.
Can I offer a free copy in a few months?
Discusses theology, eschatology, et cetera,
within seventh century context.
Yes, you can.
Just email me, my emails are in every description,
and if not, I can put it in the chat,
but mythdisionpodcast.com
and I'll be more than happy to look
at what you put together.
But yeah, accounts mentioning wars of Muhammad
aren't accepted by many academics.
I think this is like the later literature
describing the life of Muhammad and the Suna
and seeing like, did he do this or did he do that?
I imagine critical scholars are trying to say,
what's historical and what's not
in some of that literature?
Is that what we're getting at, you think, Nuri?
I think so, I mean, because I've only read,
like I've read like Cameron Armstrong's take on it
and stuff, obviously she tries to water it down,
but even like Peter Francopan in The Silk Roads,
he taught what he's generally describing
like the history of the world.
He doesn't hold back in describing the way that Muhammad
was like an aggressive warlord,
and he was the aggressor at many times.
So yeah, I'm not sure, like I said,
I turn to your channel mostly for like impartial academia
towards Islam, because I haven't seen any really
for the life of me coming out.
But yeah, if you've got academics
who are denying it, obviously that's worrying.
It wouldn't shock me though, in light of,
you could be critical of Christianity.
And by the way, even in that,
while we talk about modernity,
you don't find, obviously you don't have
the same kind of resistance.
So if you wanted to talk about in an academic setting,
does a law exist or does, you know,
does a Scott of the Quran actually exist?
You probably will never find right now a publication
that is gonna be allowed to go through the university
with that kind of philosophical topic
without extreme resistance.
And it damn sure won't be published or circulated
in the Middle East, it seems.
But in South Africa, I have a scholar who wrote
20 years ago, a book called, or worked on his PhD called,
does Yahweh exist?
And he tries to blend philosophy and textual criticism
with the scholarship of the field together
to show why Yahweh does not exist.
Not a very popular thesis and was, he said,
you know, caught a lot of crap,
but in secular university, he was able to do it.
So even that is just barely being kind of allowed
in these universities, but a lot of the critical scholars
I've spoken to have told me, they have to be careful.
They have to be careful because they want to make friendship
with the Middle East and the scholarship over there,
but they have their blocks, like they're not trying
to allow too much of the secular scholarship out there.
Derek, you know, Saudi Arabia is like,
they've literally bulldozed all of the supposed sites
that like I even used to go to when I was a child
that apparently linked like the cave
that Muhammad took refuge in or like obviously
it was just the first form,
like the first basic sites to Islam, yeah.
And now you've got like the Rolex gold tower come up
and right next to the, the carbine, like the major,
you know, where the Haramshari if it's called,
but you've got that.
And so the cave where Muhammad was born,
all these places now have been bulldozed
and they basically, when Western archeologists
have asked for permission to go to Saudi
to kind of verify these claims of Islam
and Islamic history, they've been denied.
And then as these denials are happening,
these sites no longer are able to be excavated anymore.
So it's, some of this is now consigned to history.
And this is again,
why I think Islam just flexed in ways unimaginable
because the Bible gets the scrutiny that when, you know,
it has to stand up to historical excavation
and things like that and timelines that are thrown at it.
Islam is a bit like already Makkah is questionable, right?
There's the Petra theories,
there's a bunch of things going on.
There's Yemen, that's how the raid,
all of this is happening,
but Makkah itself have been like,
if this was something, it's, it beggars belief.
Like if this was something sacred,
and this was like literally the first like places
where the prophet of Islam has stepped and like, you know,
slept and died and worshiped for the first time
and changed the position of prayer from Jerusalem, you know,
from what, all of these things are sacred sites.
You don't bulldoze, what are you doing?
So yeah, I don't know, Nuri,
there is Nuri's tonight is probably, yeah,
there's a lot of mystery
and a lot of things will never probably even know objectively.
Right, I think that doing that keeps you
from being able to check, falsify,
but at the same time,
from what I could tell from Robert G. Hoyland,
who's an expert in early Islam,
when I talked to him about this
and what they were doing in those sites,
he said, they just accept the narrative, believe it,
and they don't need to do any archeology.
They don't wanna test it, it is true.
Period, moving on.
Like that's how solid they just accept the tradition
and it sucks that they would do that to these sites
because be a great way to kind of see
the evolution of the tradition here.
I mean, I was just pulling up before we went live,
I'll share the screen just to show people
since we're on this topic
about what I would think reading this.
I went and pulled up legends,
list of legends in the Quran,
dispute over origins.
The Quran mentions, and this is an interesting,
thou doth protest too much.
The Quran mentions accusations by non-believers,
contemporaries of Muhammad,
that many stories in the Quran are fables.
Those who disbelieve say this Quran is but a fabrication,
which he, Muhammad himself, has invented
and some others have helped him with it.
So they have produced a wrong and a falsehood.
They also say it consists of only fables of the ancients
which he has gotten written.
They are being read to him in early mornings and evenings
while people are at home.
They, it is a book full of knowledge revealing many secrets
such as no human being
could in any wise discover by himself.
He who knows all the secrets contained in the heavens
and the earth sends it down to teach you
some of these secrets and guide you in your life
so that you may attain happiness of both worlds.
He surely is all forgiving and all compassionate.
So, you know where I'm going in my head.
I'm thinking, this looks like there's an accusation
that he's learning this stuff
not from the angel Gabriel so to speak,
but from Jews and Jews.
Copycat.
Right, right.
Anyway. Exactly.
Yeah, he got made fun of a lot for that.
That was the one thing.
And again, Abdul-Las-Tamiyeh has a brilliant video
on the Quran and like just Arabic poetry
that was being recited in the way
because it was a very oral tradition at the time anyway.
So I will try and send Derek that link.
You guys should check it out.
It's amazing.
I thought I was hearing the Quran
and when I left Islam and I didn't want to let go
of the sounds ridiculous
but what I thought was the beauty of the Quran,
I would listen to this non-Quranic version
of pre-Islamic Arabic that I did the Quran
because it sounded like the exact same thing.
But yeah, sorry Derek, go ahead.
No, no, no.
Thank you.
Stops.
Game and Man says on Dr. Javad Tihashmi's channel,
Dr. Joshua Little gives his reasons why hadiths
are far, far less reliable than Muslim scholars think.
I found most of it convincing though,
not really his main effort revising,
yeah, revising Aisha's age.
I personally have mad respect
for trying to figure out what's history and not.
Here's my reason.
Tell me what you think about the hadith
applying it to Islam.
If we found out that Israel never led a conquest
against the Canaanites to slaughter every man,
woman and child because God said so,
meaning it's a fictional account.
It never happened.
It's just a story describing the origins of a nation.
And that story goes all the way back to creation,
but it leads down to we were in Egypt for 400 years,
then we conquered this land.
This is how we end up here and this is God's land,
but really none of that happened in history.
Which means if we found out it didn't happen,
should we actually do this in real life in real history?
No, no, no.
Do you see why I think if we could find
some of the ugly things that are in hadith
to be fiction and not actually what happened,
maybe helpful toward Muslims who kind of look to the stuff
that imitated in their real lives.
Well, if it didn't really happen, why should I imitate it?
You see what I'm trying to get at?
I agree, I agree.
That would be a nice step as well.
Again, you're becoming more of a Quranist
and you're letting those things go and you're like,
and that's what, by the way, Derek,
a lot of Muslims are Sunni Muslims anyway,
because for Sunnis it's like integral, yeah,
with the Quran, it's the hadith.
And that's how you follow his sunnah.
But letting go of that, they're just like,
oh, we don't know, we don't know.
It's a telephone game, come on, it's he said, she said,
he said, no, she, no, she.
Well, narrated by Aisha, she's narrated a few,
she's told us a lot, but it's usually like,
he said to, he said to, he said to, he said.
So again, that wouldn't stand up in a court of law today.
So at least Muslims who are like, again,
if I deny the Quran is the word of God,
then I'm beefing with God.
But if I'm denying the hadith,
I'm still at least denying people.
So I guess the hadith is like the way that you could,
some of the logic you could apply to why you can leave
behind bits of the Bible.
Wow, thank you.
Stop scamming, man.
Many Christian ministers and priests
are aware of critical scholarship.
Very few such Muslims who know
of critical scholarship on Islam,
like idol worship seeming to have ceased 300 years
before Muhammad.
I don't know about this particular claim
that there was no idol worship for 300 years before Muhammad,
but have you heard of that one?
I'm not sure about that as well,
because from Islamic history, it tells you it was rampant.
So it's part of Muhammad's story, right?
To like reject that, which is the critical
to the monotheism of Islam
and shirk being the worst crime in Islam,
like tantamount to treason.
So you would never get to heaven
for committing that crime.
So I'm not sure if it was like that far down
in the human psyche,
but according to Islamic history, definitely wasn't.
Thank you.
Imnaq, Nuria, we have so much in common.
My evangelical church told me for years I had demons
and was possessed, very traumatizing.
I know, Imnaq, I'm so sorry.
This is what I'm saying,
like these common denominators
by people who have experienced religion
and heard these things and left religion,
it sounds like whack to us that,
especially if there's nothing wrong with you,
but you're just veering off the path
and then they put these labels on you,
like you're possessed or there's a demon in you
or you need therapy or you need help
or you need to read the Bible more,
you need to repent.
It's always like you, you, you, fault, fault, fault
and like fear and repentance
and all of these kind of negative impacts.
But I think an interesting point again with Islam,
all of those same things that Christianity
has, the magical aspects, the demonic aspects,
they all come into play,
it takes you so far away from reality.
And in the Islamic context as well,
they made an interesting point in the presentation
saying the Arabic language,
especially like the classical Arabic language,
the Quran was written and didn't have words
for obviously like, you know, mental health
or depression or schizophrenia or anxiety.
These words don't even exist in the general language.
So you're not gonna understand those concepts.
The concept is you're good, bad,
healthy, unhealthy, possessed, not possessed.
So that's kind of what we're dealing with as a paradigm.
Wow.
Thank you, Imnaq.
Staps, gimme a minute.
I think another reason for the mental health problems
is first cousin marriages, generation after generation.
Islam's barriers between unrelated men and women mingling
is conductive to this problem.
Yes, that's, oh, sorry for the long arms,
anyone listening?
Yeah, that is definitely,
I mean, it was a massive issue here in the UK
and it was like such a, like it was an issue
on such a policy level that the government had to tackle it
and put out like, you know, education awareness campaigns
and things like that.
And I would, I'm not shying away from it.
It was disproportionately within the Pakistani,
the British Pakistani community.
I'm not, even Arabs, Arab Muslims don't do this
as much as Muslims from Pakistan do this.
Even Indian Muslims don't do this as much.
So it is very much concentrated.
But again, yes, having, I think, constant unity run
for generation after generation in your family
is not good for anyone's mental health, absolutely.
Wow, so much to learn.
Hadrian, thank you for the super chat.
Just because I was oppressed,
it does not justify in taking other oppressors as partners
just to fight my own oppression.
And advice from my professor.
Oh, Hadrian, Hadrian's my friend Derek
and he is someone I was referring to when I said
he left Islam and he turned Christian for a while,
for a while and then he left.
But he did fall into that, like, you know,
this is close enough.
It's, let's minus the bad parts of Islam
and let's take this for what it is.
But then I think, Hadrian, I'm sorry
if I'm misrepresenting your story,
but I think it was evangelicals or something in the end.
They were just a bit too much and you got put off
or yeah, you saw the light of it.
I'm joking.
Right.
That's interesting.
Maybe we'll meet sometime.
Stop scamming, man.
Hi, Derek.
I think an episode on Shia Islam
would really be good for the discourse
acknowledging, of course,
that you are spectacularly busy.
I am busy, but we can always try to figure out
a way to cover this.
I wanted to do a Sunni Shia split episode
with a scholar and that is fascinating in and of itself.
The break and what happened in the two groups.
There's a book that covers that, an audio book,
the female scholar.
I don't know if it was the one that you mentioned earlier.
Karen Armstrong?
I think if she has an audio book on this.
She probably does.
It was good.
It was good.
It makes you like go,
what the heck is going on between the break, the split?
This is super interesting.
I'll be there, Derek.
If you're there, I'll be listening intently.
I love learning about this.
And fun fact, I actually think if I knew about the split,
I would have gone to,
if I didn't have a choice in the matter,
I would have gone to the Shia side,
but that's a story for another day.
That is.
I'd love to cover that sometime.
Radar apologetics.
Thank you for the super chat.
Derek, are you critical of Tovia Singer's Judaism
like other religions?
Let me pause and say, absolutely.
Anyone who watches my YouTube channel
can see my last video
is about child sacrifice to Yahweh,
the name of the deity
that is not supposed to be spoken in Judaism.
So yes, I am very critical of Tovia Singer's Judaism
in the sense that I do videos over and over and over
on the Hebrew Bible,
showing its mythology,
showing there's horrific moral issues with the book
that we call the Bible,
including the New Testament and such.
If so, why have him on the show?
Hypocrit a bit?
So this is obviously in light of my David Wood video.
And so I have Tovia to come on
to take Javs at the New Testament
to hear his critical thoughts about Judaism
and how he is an Orthodox Jew,
observes the New Testament
and being critical of that,
what he sees in Paul's letters,
what he sees in the gospels,
the anti-Semitism that we find
that starts to flourish
within the New Testament text,
the Gospel of John,
the Book of Acts maybe starts to show this as well,
blaming the Jews over and over
for why Christians are being imprisoned by Rome.
The Jews are conspiring to kill them.
The Jews want to stone Stephen to death.
The Jews, the Jews.
Anyway, so it's an interesting thing.
I don't have him as a co-host.
So I think I'm pretty consistent on once in a while
I have Rabbi join me
to do critical responses on New Testament.
I think it's an interesting duo to have happen,
but I'm not going to bring him on every show
because if I did that, it would be tense.
I can't be critical of, I could,
but it would just be more like a debate and friction
rather than me being free to be critical
as I'd like on his own religion.
But I don't have an axe to grind specifically with Rabbi.
He's like the only apologist in the Jewish world
that's doing this kind of stuff
when there are millions of Christian apologists
being critical of atheists and Islam
and all of these things,
only one Jewish apologist online, Rabbi Tovia Singer.
So if you think I'm a hypocrite because I have him on a show,
then well, I can't convince you otherwise,
but I've had a lot of people be angry at me for that Naria.
Like you don't debate him.
You don't challenge Rabbi on Judaism.
Why don't you do that?
People don't understand like your fight is,
you know, when you come out of religion,
that's like your major, that's your bullseye,
then everything else is like, oh, I'm learning from you,
but you don't necessarily have to go like all guns blazing,
at least that that's my approach anyway.
I'm like, everyone's coming at their own thing
from very personal and different positions,
but you have, as long as you've made your position clear,
you know, on certain matters, then don't,
I mean, I haven't, I've, I've, I got the same thing Eric,
and I ended up pandering.
I did a video on Judaism, did a video on Hinduism,
not that I know basically anything about these, right?
But just to say, oh, your atheist,
why don't you talk about anything else?
Well, here you go.
Here's like somebody then who's telling you
that this is equally as bad.
Right.
Well, what I find interesting too,
is I have several scholars who are Christians
that I've interviewed.
So anyone who watches my material enough
to educate themselves to learn from academia
will realize Eric's interviewed several actual
Christian scholars.
They may not be fundamentalists,
because honestly, there's not much to learn
in terms of factual data on the ground, in my opinion,
that I'm observing, that relates to reality,
that I can learn from secular scholars
who are Christian, theist, agnostic, atheist,
doesn't matter their ontology,
that bring good, good argumentation and evidence
to the table to at least consider.
So anyway, I gotta, I gotta use the restroom here
in a minute, so I'm hoping.
James Hampton, XJW here, love the message,
cult, mind, think in all religions,
us that have deacon relate in our process,
can you comment the bite model and how this might apply?
Can I use a restroom while you,
you know the bite model, right?
You're muted.
Sorry, it's the authoritarian control model,
but I'm not, I can't speak on it, to be honest.
Okay.
I'll be on that, yeah.
I know Islam obviously fits in there.
I'm mad respect, by the way,
XJW witness as well, I feel,
I think we feel each other's pain, but yeah.
I feel the same pain in terms of trying to tell you
what each acronym represents and all the details,
but I know that highly controlled groups
and XJW witnesses for sure fit that model,
but even, you know, there's lesser versions
of that bite model that fit even in the most generic
Christianity psychologically, I would imagine,
that a lot of this still applies.
So it's a cult, but may not be as controlling
and as dangerous as some of the more high controlled,
like Islam, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons,
certain Mormons, Scientology.
Derek, if you want to use the restroom,
I can talk a little bit about Islam
and what I've just realized, I want to controls.
Okay, sure.
So James, this is what I think as well
about like the level of control within Islam.
I'm sure you can relate because I think these are like
high intensity, like authoritarian cults,
but if you look at Islam, like for example,
the call to prayer five times a day,
which was also like bargained down from,
like Moses told Muhammad on his night journey
that your people won't be able to pray 50 prayers a day
or whatever it was.
So Muhammad literally bargained with God
to bring it down to five.
But then I also started thinking about it as,
if you think like, like Muhammad,
as if you think of him as a warlord,
and then you think of him trying to galvanize his men
or an army, and then being called five times a day
from like a central like pulpit in the mosque or something,
it's essentially like almost like a military roll call
as well.
Well, that's at least the thought that came into my head
that it almost seems like a roll call to see
who's reporting for duty and who's not.
And Islam has these weird things as well,
but if you come back from a battle,
you're not supposed to go to your home at night,
you're supposed to spend the night in a mosque
because you don't know essentially
who's sleeping with who while you're away.
But if you listen to the way that a Muslim
is supposed to pray, essentially you can only get away,
you can get away with like reciting the exact same
like four or five surahs or verses
when you're praying and it's exact same movements.
So essentially five times a day,
you could be repeating the exact same thing.
And you know, like some of the Quran verses
and literally like cursing out Abu Lahab,
like from Muhammad's time and his wife
and you're cursing him into like, you know,
the worst kind of punishment.
But Muslims are doing that sometimes five times a day
because it's a short surah or short verse,
but they essentially have no idea what they're saying.
So there's that and then there's the,
so it's five prayers a day.
And then on Friday, the Juma prayer,
which is like an extra special prayer,
which basically even if for some reason
you're not praying five times a day at home,
most Muslim men are obligated to attend that.
And that's when you get the like really communal feeling again.
And then on top of that,
just the control of like literally telling you
which foot to use to enter the bathroom.
There's a du'a, like a prayer you say before you have sex.
There's, it's just, it does not give you a second
to breathe and be in your own head.
And you can see how that is such a control tactic
because somebody has no opportunity to think for themselves
and it's so much repetition and so,
you know, like reinforced behavior
and then reinforced behavior in numbers.
Again, I'm sure you can relate.
It's very much the same tactics they employ across the board.
Derek, I hope you're a bit relieved now.
Yeah, I'm drinking water, going to the gym.
So the water just comes straight through me.
Oh, good, you're on a health flex.
I love it.
I'm trying.
I'm in raw.
I married a Muslim woman.
Some of my wife's kids are devout Muslims.
Muslim history viewpoints is quite obviously distorted.
I think that's what they mean to say in my opinion.
Is there anything to recommend of things
I can do to have positive impact?
Thank you for the super chat.
Oh, I mean, to be honest, it's a tough one, you know,
because I would say that this, yeah,
without rocking the boat too much
and rocking the relationship and the family dynamics,
I think what you can always do is just,
what I do in my home is to present the counter argument,
I guess, in a very respectful manner
and just show that beyond their views
or beyond the Islamic worldview,
there is also a worldview that doesn't leave you
as a what they like to call degenerate
or part of the, I don't know what,
like the only fans type of West.
It's not a false dichotomy.
The world does not operate in a false dichotomy
the way that Islam presents it to you.
And I think if you just showed or were able to show
whoever is that's part of your family
that there's other paths in life,
it's not just black and white.
Obviously without trying to challenge them head on
because this is a very, very sensitive topic
and it is something you have to approach very carefully
and at the end of the day,
shaking somebody's entire worldview.
Again, as we're going ripe, circling all the way back,
some people, in fact, some of my own cousins,
I know who are, you know, like they wear hijab.
And I sometimes even we joke and like they say,
if I wasn't like probably Muslim or hijabi,
I'd be crazy.
And I was like, you're crazier than me.
So yeah, maybe you would be crazy.
Like, I don't know if you need religion at some level.
I guess people do, but yeah.
Sorry, I'm on raw.
I hope that helped.
Thank you.
I hope so too that giving advice in these kind of areas
is like-
Very tricky.
We're not, yeah.
I'm not qualified to like give you accurate,
maybe suggestions, but please don't take us
as some medical professional or like something to diagnose
or tell you what you should or shouldn't do
in these situations. Absolutely.
We don't want to see something go wrong.
Mr. Exclusive, thank you for the super chat.
This has to be one of the calmest,
most educational discussions I have ever heard.
My understanding began with studying psychology.
Oh, that is such a sweet super chat.
Thank you.
Calm, educational, I love that.
I love that.
I'm glad we were able to provide that
for you, Mr. Exclusive.
Thank you.
It can get really tense when you have like,
I don't know, friction in those conversations
between ideologies and stuff.
So Nuri Suna again is back.
Thank you again for the super chat.
I respectfully understand it may be worrying,
but it's a matter of fact that the majority
of traditional literature written on the life of Muhammad
reflects the later political contexts
of the centuries which followed his life.
I actually tend to agree from the academics
I've learned from here,
not as someone who's studied it himself,
but I think that there's good reason to think
they crafted their perception of the Prophet
and many of the stories about him later
in their contemporary sensitivities,
culture, environment, whatever that may be.
So I'm sorry, I'm commenting on this before you.
I just figured I might as well add my two cents is that
does this mean we can maybe find less horrific ideas
about the actual life of Muhammad
that some of the hadith seem to paint?
That we in our modern sensitivities
look at anachronistically and say,
that's something we should not follow today.
At that time, it might have been heroic.
It might have been like in their culture,
the thing to do or something,
but what are your thoughts with that?
Well, Derek, first of all,
you're equally pleased to talk about this,
the amount that you've like actually deep dived into this.
You remember, I just was like a Muslim
and then I left and I was like, oh, I'm done.
Like I don't really like every day go into like,
what is this academic saying about Muhammad?
You know, like, it's, yeah,
I've just kind of moved past that,
but yeah, Nuri Sunnah, you're right.
As far as I've tried to like look from the,
let's say the Western or non-Oriental perspective
on Muhammad, but there are snippets as well within,
I guess, see, I just turned to Islamic literature
for snippets of his life before he became a political leader
or before he received his revelation, so to speak.
So like questions about his paternal lineage,
his maternal lineage, his youth,
his adoption, like living with his uncle,
all of that, you can kind of see snippets of that
in Islamic literature, which is like,
don't discount that because that's very damaging too,
and it's very insightful.
So I would take a bit of both,
whatever you're seeing in the traditional literature
that's written and what you're seeing
from like the Western academics
and also what Islam is presenting,
you like take it all and then form the picture
of what's happening here is what I would say,
but yeah, I think you're right.
Well put.
And then Nuri says, by the way, guys and girls,
I am by no means arguing that Muhammad wasn't in war.
One of my chapters discuss the theological mundane influence
which led to them.
Thank you so much, Nuri.
Couple more here, and then I've got to let Nuri ago.
Ronan of Stag, thank you for doing this today,
Derek at MythVision team.
Yeah, we are, couple more here,
I'll let you definitely go, if that's okay with you, Nuri.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Thank you, yeah, I was just gonna tell you
in the next few minutes, I'd have to head, sorry.
Without a doubt, yeah.
I'm glad that we're coming up to the end here.
Ronan, thanks for that super chat.
Nuri says, Stop Scamming Man was referring
to the epigraphic evidence inscriptions
which is not at all testified
to a presence of idolatry during Muhammad's time.
So this gets into the idea like, is that fictional
to act like they're paganism running rampant?
And then I think that there's some truth to that,
that they kind of wrote a fictional story.
But the idea that there's nothing, there's no pagan,
I don't know about that either.
I know that there were monks down there,
there were synagogues, there were churches
already in Arabia, when Muhammad shows up.
So are there pagans?
And figures of idolatry, like they found,
but I just don't know the exact datings of them,
but like obviously we get the figurines
for like the goddesses and stuff.
And these sites were obviously like, again, even the garbors,
the garbors were like spread all over Arabia,
but they held certain deities.
I'm just not up to date with exactly the timeframe
that you can date the last epigraphic evidence,
unfortunately Nuri, but I'd love to read your book
and see what you've got to say.
Thank you.
Armando, thank you so much for that.
And then last one, Ronan says, Derek,
what about having Dr. Justin Sledge on here?
I love it.
I've had him on three times already
and you can just look up MythVision,
Dr. Justin Sledge, you'll find
that I've interviewed him several times.
If, as we're wrapping up here Nuri,
I noticed that some of the people who are being critical
or whatnot may not know, or they just haven't seen
some of the videos that I've already done
on some of these things.
Now this isn't one of those, I'm just bringing up
that some of the critical commenters in the past
act like, well, you've never done any videos on Islam
without just making it about Christianity or something.
And I've done 19 scholarly interviews specifically
on Islam, I take critical lens on the Hebrew Bible,
Old Testament, which is the roots to Judaism.
So I don't understand that for some people.
Now, I get why someone may have missed interviews
with Dr. Justin Sledge, that's reasonable.
But anyway, final words from you as I let you go
because you've been a trooper hanging out with me now
for two hours.
No, no, no, it's been amazing as always.
Thank you so much to everyone that's been watching
all the support for Derek's channel, keep it up.
And Derek, keep doing what you're doing, I love it.
And I'd love to be back soon
and have you on my channel as always.
I'm back in the game now, so we'll do this again, okay?
Yes.
I will be more than happy to join you, so let's do it.
Awesome, thank you so much.
Bye Derek.
Bye.
Bye.
