It's not one person writing.
It's not just that there's certain elements within the individual stories that you don't have hints
in the narrative that make you go, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
That's right.
That conflicts completely with what you just said over here.
And why is it all of a sudden this and this and this?
You don't want to open your hand because you're afraid of what will happen.
Shut up!
Right?
It happened!
Yeah.
They write Spider-Man comics.
They're not like coming up with all the wall stuff
where people walk on ceilings.
It's like, when I found out this is jumping to Jesus,
which is outside of the whole discussion here.
Welcome back to Mythition Podcast.
Today, we're going to be discussing another apologist argument.
What I find happening in the internet world is an apologist will make an argument
or try to find a way to be clever in getting out of a pickle or a problem or whatever.
And there's some sophisticated way where they'll try to engineer an escape route,
such as the idea that Jesus didn't fail as an apocalyptic prophet.
We have conditional eschatology coming on the scene and rising amongst Christian circles
that know that there's a problem if you don't try to make it conditional.
Because Jesus was either wrong, Paul was probably wrong.
And then, what are we able to depend and trust the word of God and what's being said in these books?
So, we're dealing with Genesis.
Michael Jones, who's a friend of ours, but also someone we can't agree with on several,
several points, has made kind of some remarks and we had to look it up by text and said,
hey man, help me out.
Where's this academic source that you're getting these ideas from?
In Genesis 1 and Genesis 2, it seems to be a consensus.
Dr. Josh, Dr. Kip, on the idea that we have two sources.
They do not agree with each other.
In fact, in many places, you could say they might even conflict with one another.
They aren't meant to be read as a single source.
But I've heard Michael Jones say that, well, we have other creation accounts
where there's two accounts that somehow go together as if it's maybe the same author later
writing it, I don't know, trying to reconcile this issue.
And he's taken jobs at documentary hypothesis.
These kind of different views.
So, that kind of leads us into the details to allow you to go into.
What is he trying to say and what are the problems with this argument?
Yeah, I think maybe sort of to begin sort of broadly.
When we think about something like the formation of the Pentateuch,
whether we're talking about the documentary hypothesis or what people have been calling
like the supplementary hypothesis, where you have either sources being brought together
or you have layers of redaction over time for theological purposes.
In either case, there is very broad agreement whether one holds to a more European view of
scholarship or somebody like Dr. Joel Baden obviously holds in the documentary hypothesis
is that you have two primary, we can call them sources here, P and not P, right?
P and not P. And there's almost universal consensus certainly among Pentateuchal specialists
that what we have in Genesis 1 is from a different author, group of authors, whatever,
however one wants to shake that out from what we see in Genesis 2, 4 and following.
That being said, so that there's broad agreement there whether whatever position that you hold
to on the formation of the Pentateuch, it's not one person writing this whole thing.
So, the problem I think is, and we want to be careful about this,
is that whoever is like, let's say it's P for example, who's writing Genesis 1,
appending this one, let's say that that's the way we want to go with this.
The way that the text is structured, it's not that he's writing trying to ensure that we have
two distinct versions, right? That's not, he's not trying to call that out. In fact, I think that
many would argue that there is an attempt to try to make this smooth, right? Of course,
you don't, right? It's very difficult to do that sort of thing. But I think we need to make sure
we nuance it in that way. But this is obviously a sore spot, as you said, if you're viewing the text
as either substantially of mosaic authorship or of single authorship or something in that vein.
And again, I know there are different views even among evangelicals that sort of
have started to accept more editorial redactions, allowing them in. And I think of necessity,
they have to do that. Otherwise, it's just going to become sort of silly. But that's the issue that
I think we're trying to deal with here. And I'll turn it over to Kip, because I'll sit here and
just ramble on. But really what we're dealing with in this particular case is looking at
two distinct creation narratives or accounts in one, essentially Genesis one and Genesis two,
or are we looking at a single narrative by a single author? And it's just a style of writing
where you have like a more general account in the first part, and then something more specific
in the second. Yeah. And this is kind of how this gets presented then by Christian apologists.
Genesis one as a general creation, and then Genesis two as more specific and focused on
Adam and Eve in particular on date quote unquote day six, right? I think it's important to point out
one of the reasons why scholars are convinced of these difference, the fact that we have two
creation stories has to do with a whole bunch of things. It's not just that there's certain
elements within the individual stories that that aren't easily reconciled or conflated,
you've got different orders of creation, for instance, the man is created first in Genesis two
before the animals, whereas in Genesis one, the animals are created first and then the man,
the way in which the God is presented is quite different. God speaks things into existence
in Genesis one. In Genesis two, he's actually literally molding out of clay with his hands,
the man and the animals as well. It's a little more primitive.
Yeah, it's earthy, it's hands on, it's interactive, whereas in the Genesis one creation story,
it's much more of a transcendent sort of picture. And of course, most famously what most people know
within this model of the documentary hypothesis is that in the priestly account, God is identified
as Elohim in the non priestly account. He's identified as Yahweh Elohim, but this might be
like this also might be one of these elements that the P author or whoever put these stories
together side by side tried to do in an effort to bring them together by calling God in that second
account Yahweh Elohim. So there's various elements that show them to be different. The first creation
story is very structured in that it follows a specific formula that repeats itself from start
to finish. You've got the naming of the day, then you've got God speaking, whatever God speaks comes
into being, it's pronounced as good and it repeats itself throughout. And the second creation story
it follows a much more narrative sort of flow. It's more story like, it doesn't have that same
kind of structure. So there's all these differences that scholars look at that and go, wow, these
are two clearly different things in the easiest way, the most parcellaneous way. I was thinking
from the perspective of Occam's razor, the best way to look at these is as two separate stories,
because on their own, they each individually make a lot of sense. And if I could point out for just
a second, I don't want to get right back to you, but if we had a completely unified Pentateuch,
that evidenced a single authorship, everything flowed really well, and all we were looking at
here is Genesis 1 and Genesis 2. And this was the only place that it looked like there was
something distinct. Then I think it's more reasonable to start questioning, gosh, look,
everything else is unified. That gets into like prior probability stuff, right?
Look, I don't know all this mathematics stuff. I'm not a smart. It's not even. Well, seriously,
what is the, look at, if we have a very good reason to think something is a certain way,
like we look at the laws of nature. That's the whole point about miracles that it gets lost in
this whole thing. And then they get the human card thrown at you. And it's like, it really is weird
to me. It's like, how often do you see people walk on water? How often do you see people rise from
the dead? How often do you see people multiply food and fish and bread? This is an extremely low
probability that this stuff happens because it doesn't happen before. If the Pentateuch was like
clearly not having these issues, and we're looking at 99%, but then you get to the one,
you might have a real good fight on your hand to go, I mean, why would you then say this is
contradicting when we have all this? That's a good case. Not when we find it over and over and over
and over. You can't even get the father-in-law of Moses. Yeah, right. I mean, there's so many
issues. There was these repeating patterns. With regards to Genesis one and two, though,
I think it's important to point out here that regardless of the opinion on whether this was a
single author or two different stories, I think that virtually everybody recognizes that there
are clear distinctions between these two stories, which is why so many apologists have employed
the sorts of arguments that they have in an effort to bring them together.
One of the ways that has become popular is to focus on these as you've got a general
story of creation. God's working more broadly, and then he's focusing in
on something that Michael Jones had suggested in his documentary hypothesis response video.
I think that's where it was, where he said that this idea of having dual creation stories
within a single work is actually part of an ancient Near Eastern literary technique.
One of the things I want to say about this right at the outset is that quite often what you will
find among apologetic responses to source theories within the Pentateuch is a lot of
dependence on literary sort of arguments where they will try and emphasize larger motifs, larger
themes, larger elements within individual aspects of the text as a way to sort of tease out more
of a poetical or an artistic sense of what's happening in the text. Quite often these sorts
are in the eye of the reader or the interpreter. It's actually fairly easy to see these sort of
patterns or structures, these sort of painting in broad strokes on all sorts of different types
of literature. It's one of those as pattern-building machines. This is just what we do. Even in two
separate compositions written by separate people, you could find ways to show commonalities between
them. It's not hard to do. We're getting closer. I can feel the heat. It's starting to happen.
I love this, but this is the point. You're going to want to stay tuned. I love that you are dancing
around it though. This is important as we're having foreplay right now. I have to make everything
sexual because we're dealing with ancient Sumer and they were very sexual. They really were.
Really sexual in their mythology, so we will be today. But what I find interesting about what
you said is it's not like these are completely irrelevant narratives. They're both creation
narratives. He does this in Noah's flood. They're both flood narratives, so you're going to find
commonality because they're dealing with a similar tradition, but when and how they're handling it
is radically different. We have the Joseph tradition. Is this just one single narrative?
Are we making too much out of this whole weird thing about, well, they sold them in Egypt and
then they sold them to the Amalekites and the Ishmaelites or is there really two compositions,
two traditions that have commonality? They're dealing with a guy named Joseph,
but one has a certain tribal group they want to emphasize and the other one has a different
tribal group. I love what you're saying because it builds up to the point that it's not like
we're talking about totally irrelevant narratives. They're really similar narratives, have similar
kind of traditions. Another way of saying this is a creation story will feature very much the same
sorts of elements and follow similar patterns, especially those coming out of this similar
geographical area where they all know each other. We should not be surprised to see repeated
some repetition in broad theme or categories. They all feature the gods or a god and they're all
creating humans and they're all answering questions of what is it the humans are doing.
Yeah, you're going to be able to see those sort of repeated patterns if you're looking on that
macro scale. What's happening here in these two creation stories, Michael Jones is depending
on an article that was written by a guy by the name of Isaac Kikawata back in 1983.
It's a very long, in-depth article. It's six pages. I think the first pages of the six is
like front matters. Well, it's six pages and four of those pages are just outlines of the text. It's
literally like a page and a half of actual. It's almost like a note. It's essentially a note.
But the article is trying to make the case that this general creation, specific creation,
is a structure that you can follow not just in Genesis 1 and 2 but also in the Sumerian myth,
Enki and Nidma and then in the story of Atrahaus. The way that the author wants to do this, he
basically says, he starts with Enki and Nidma. He says, reading Enki and Nidma, you can break
that whole story into two parts and then you can read these five basic motifs
occurring A, B, C, D, E in the first part and then A, B, C, D, E in the second part.
They're in a different order. No, no. In Enki and Nidma, they're in the same order.
They're in the same order. They're very, very general. It's gods, creation,
humankind, decreeing of fate and then division of labor. Something like that.
And then it supposedly repeats in the second half. But then when it comes to Atrahasis,
it's like A, B, C, D, E. F, G, I think. No, no, no. In A, B, C, D, E in the first half. But then
in the second half, it's like A, D, C, B, E. It just mixes them all up. And then in the Genesis
one, he has to add stuff. So it's A, B, C, D, E, F, G. And then it's like A, D, F, B, G. It's basically,
when I look at something like that, I'm like, right away, if there's not a clear enough pattern,
then you can see it repeating specifically. And you only have four pages to deal with three
major literary texts? It's pretty insane. But it looks like, this looks to me like a guy who is
just seeing what he wants to see. Right. And then trying to build an argument
and the thing is, when you actually get down into the narratives, there's a logic to these
narratives that just doesn't, it just doesn't follow what's going on. So like in Enki and Nynmak,
you have this initial creation state where you've got, you know, work being done by the
minor deities that are being, that's being overseen by the major deities, they get upset.
And so Enki and Nama, and Nama is supposed to use Nynmak as like a helper along with some other
deities, and they're supposed to create a human to carry the baskets, right? So this gets done,
everybody's really happy, there's rejoicing. Check, check, check. And then everybody's really
happy and they throw a feast. Well, in the midst of this feast, that's where the break is supposed
to be. Yes, the first break. The transition is during the feast. But the feast is what sets up
the whole second like scene, right? So they're having this feast and Enki and Nynmak are sitting
there getting drunk, which is one of the things that Enki does in these literary texts. And they
challenge each other, like, oh, well, I can create, you know, like a human and I can like
give it problems. And then you have to decree its fate and say where it's going to go and like
what role it's going to play. And so like they do this creation thing, where it creates somebody
with like weak hands, you know, can't hold anything. And so Enki says, all right, I declare or I declare
you that that person is going to be a servant of the king. This person doesn't have legs or he's
paralyzed. All right, he's going to be a silversmith, you know, or this one can't hold back his urine.
You're like, it's fun. But the point is that a lot of these, interestingly enough, a lot of these
jobs that are assigned to these people that have what we would consider to be like handicaps
are people that are that you would find in like a city, right, doing specialized jobs. Whereas
in the in the first part, you know, that they're the thing that they're celebrating,
it's making basket carriers ones that are carrying like the mud for building. And so again, it's
the point is that there's a there's a very natural logic to the progression of the story.
It's it's not like you've got okay, part A is now part B is just like a repeat of part A just in
different words. That's not what's going on. Another way to put it is that the authorship
seems to be a unified guy or person authoring that particular text. You don't have hints in
the narrative that make you go whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, that's right. That conflicts completely
with what you just said over here. And why is it all of a sudden this and this and this. And I don't
think you can like you, you can't take out that second part as a standalone story, right? Right.
Like it just doesn't it wouldn't make a lot of sense on its own, which is I mean, this and this
is the big difference between
creation stories. You can have one without the other and not miss a single thing of importance
between them. In fact, you probably feel like you have a better sense and the thing is they're
so vastly different. And this is one of the things I just want to throw this in. This is one of the
things that's sort of frustrating. And it's frustrating to me. So I know it's got to be
frustrating to Joel Baden. And that is there's this idea among evangelicals and apologists that
Oh, well, the only reason that the only way that you divide these sources up, these different parts
of the text up is based on the divine name, right? Sorry. So anywhere that it says Yahweh, well,
that must be this source. And anywhere it says Elohim, this must be this source. Or worse,
you start to generate these lists of vocabulary, right? So anywhere it says,
Sheikah for a female slave, well, this must be, you know, X source, you know, P or J or whatever.
And that's not the way that this functions. It's not the way that the either the documentary
hypothesis and certainly not the neo documentary hypothesis function, the way that they did this
is it was based on narrative inconsistencies. And they were saying, Okay, here we have a flood,
you know, a flood story. And my God, this is a confusing jumble, right? We have two different
commands, we have two different takings of the animals, we have two different boardings,
all these things, two different disembarkings, all this stuff. And so because there were these
narrative inconsistencies, they said, Well, we have to try to separate out these stories and
figure out what goes with what. Once they did that, once they created the two sources,
then they noticed, well, shit, this one always uses Yahweh, that one always uses Elohim or whatever.
Or this one always seems to use Amma for female slave, this one always seems to use Shifcha.
So it's not the other way around. So that that criticism, where oh, you're just picking out
vocabulary and just, you know, because look here, this one, it's supposed to be P, this one uses
Shifcha and this one that's J uses Shifcha. Oh, this all has a bunch of nonsense. That's a straw man,
right? And it's a terrible straw man that says you don't understand the document hypothesis.
Is it fair to say that that might have worked centuries ago when Velhausen, you know, was
first. I wouldn't say Velhausen. And again, like this, this, this is something you definitely want
to, would want to ask, like somebody, Joel Baden or Jeffrey Stack or to Bruce Halpern or something.
But there was a time, I think, that following Velhausen, that scholars began to
initially based on the separation of the narratives began to generate these types of lists. And
they started to like subdivide out the sources. Right. And I think that if you read through
what Joel Baden says in his composition of the Pentateuch book, like he critiques this.
And so like, there, there is a fair critique to level
against certain people who, you know, utilize the document hypothesis incorrectly,
but it's not a shot against the document hypothesis and certainly not against the
neo-documentary hypothesis. Okay, if anything, it's a shot. Well, yeah, the people who misuse
the theory more often than not tend to be
apologists who are invested in this conclusion as a way to paint it as ridiculous. I think,
you know, the, the recent example of this that comes to mind is the,
the, the shit show that erupted over this Mount Abal inscription. The, the fundamentalist,
apologist, archaeologists who discovered this thing was running around and giving interviews
on all of the apologetics channels, talking about how this tiny, this tiny little tablet
of lead destroys the documentary hypothesis because it mentions El Yeho, the God Yahweh.
And because these two words appear side by side, that's it. Documentary hypothesis debunked.
Right? And I'm like, this is, but, but this is the problem I'm getting at. This is,
this is the caricature. This is the, the straw man version of what the documentary hypothesis is.
No, it's not just, you know, parting out the names. There's so much more to it. It was through,
and it took, I think it's important. Like it took, it took years to refine the theory
to the point where, to, to what we have today and what, what Joe Bain promotes
in his book, The Composition of the Pentateuch is, is this refined idea of these two, or, or I
guess these four different sources and their distinctions, not just in terms of the name
of God, but in terms of the type of language they use, the way that they write and how they
structure sentences, various nuances of theology, how they view things like the priesthood and the,
the, the tabernacle and the temple and the arc of the covenant. These are all important,
finer details that you can tease out and see like within the individual sources as quite distinct.
He is that you're finding those not to separate the sources. You're finding them
after the sources have been separated. That's the key to this. So certainly to be fair, right,
I would have met like, and again, I'm not a pentatuchal specialist. So, you know, I defer
obviously to those that are, but there certainly must be cases where you have something that's
in contention. It could go either way. And you would say, Hey, look, this, this one uses Yahweh,
the likelihood, it could go either way, narratively, but this is probably going to go to Jay or,
you know, Hey, this, this has a very common word. Like my head a professor that used the
word ostensibly all the time, ostensibly, this ostensibly that. And if I had a note
left on the, on the table in the conference room and it said, ostensibly, you'll find this.
And I had to make a determination of who wrote this, I would say, well, I can't guarantee it,
but this is probably, you know, by this particular professor that use ostensibly all the time.
It doesn't mean that no other human can use ostensibly. It's just sort of an interesting
word that, you know, I like to use that because it's like, that's another problem,
right? Did it really happen? Well, it looks real. And there's a whole topic people aren't even aware
of, of realism. There's a whole subject matter to research about what is called realism,
which is very similar to Homer and a lot of classes to study Homer looking for
realisms. And if you read Homer and you're really serious about geography, people, places, things,
you're going to find things that are real. They look real. It looks like that. Hold on.
That's history. No, the author is putting in anchoring it to things. So he's writing a fiction,
but he's anchoring it to real people, places and things, which is the problem. Because then you
get to the Gospels and you're looking at this literature that has fantastical things in it.
But then there's some realism. Oh, these are history or are they mythographies as other academics
I talked to? There's so many. Anyway, yeah, I mean, certainly think about the Exodus, right?
And the Exodus has very similitude because they're they use aspirin. These people are not stupid,
right? Like it's like when somebody right now, I hate, I know they hate to hear it, but like when
they write Spider-Man comics, they're not like coming up with off the wall stuff where people
walk on ceilings like that's stupid because it's Spider-Man. But I mean, like normal people is
what I meant. But I know they're using like a real city with, you know, hot dog vendors and
newspapers like that because it gives you that's right. It's very similitude, but it doesn't mean
that it's trying to represent like some sort of historical idea of necessity or the idea of just
a hero and a villain. I mean, that's everyday real life, right? There's someone who's doing
things in society. They're bad. They just make it into a fiction. I really love how you guys
parse this out and we discussed this in particular. Just one more point. It's hard for me to not like
really think what it's hard for me not to try and look at the motives. And like, and I'm sure
Christians do the same thing. They go, Oh, your motives, you want this not to be true. Like honestly,
it wouldn't matter. Like if I let me just put it this way with the Gospels again, we're talking
about realism. Let's suppose it's really historical in many ways. I still wouldn't read Walking on
Water, Rising the Dead. I wouldn't read that as like literally what is true. I'd say people believed
it. Just like people believe this and people believe that. We were talking about all sorts of
crazy stuff with the world war one stuff. Yeah, we're going to get into things just by rumors
or or someone writes something purposefully with it being fictional. People interpreted it as not.
The guy comes forward and says, No, I didn't mean that. Shut up. Right. It happened. Yeah. Okay,
like, you know, so it can lose it can have a life of its own point is is like, I just it's hard for
me to sit here and think they're not motivated to try and save the text. And this is why I as an
ex-vangelical, you know, really fundamentalist person, I do have much more respect for those who
are more Orthodox, more not fundamentalist, and they don't worship a book. They say, Hey, we have a
tradition. We have faith. We believe. But like, we don't need this book to be this magical thing
that evangelicals have made it out to be. Sure. I mean, like the more commitments that you have,
the harder it is, I think to do, you know, good, good scholarship. And I mean, that's just of
necessity. And I don't think that necessarily has to be like from a religious standpoint. I mean,
think about it. You know, when you when you write a dissertation, you're, you're like,
please don't, you know, find something new that disproves this, right? So like, we have those
commitments, right? Because we want our stuff to actually stand the test of time.
And this does happen. Yeah, like, I wrote for the first two years of my program,
I was writing what I thought the dissertation was going to be. And then I read an article.
And it completely shattered what I was working on and sent me in a totally different direction.
Yep. So I mean, like, like that happens. But that is like, like, that's what,
that's what we're supposed to be doing as scholars is, is engaging with the text and,
and following the evidence where it goes. And that's the key, though. See, like,
there's this difference, I think, between hating the idea that you've just spent two years.
But you don't keep going with that main idea that you were doing. And there's a moment too,
like, like it is, oh my God, two years of work. What do I, what do I do with this new information?
Yeah. Now, right? And it is, there's a point of kind of like, like, there's an instant
point of devastation where you kind of, you're breathing into the paper bag and you're like,
okay, I, you know, I'm, I'm, I can recover from this somehow. But like, in the end, I,
you know, in the direction that I ended up going is so much more interesting, in my opinion, with,
with, with, with what happened. But what you don't do is sit there and go, well, is it,
isn't it possible? Isn't it possible that the position that I have could still work? I mean,
like, you know, what if, what if there's this outside, no, you say, okay, look, this sucks,
it sucks, right? I wrote this whole thing. And now this new information has come out. Damn.
But like, I'm going to fall absolutely flat on my face in my career, if I just keep going down
this path, because this isn't how scholarship works. And I will get eaten alive if I try to keep
pressing this bad hand. But I'll give you a real life example here that, that, that happened
like a year and a half ago. Eric Klein, who is a brilliant archaeologist that wrote the book 1177.
Back in like 2008, he wrote a book from Eden to exile, I think is what it's called. And it's just
looking at significant, essentially, fundamentalist evangelical approaches to certain major stories.
So the Eden narrative, he looks at the Exodus, looks at the conquest and so on and so forth.
Well, like he wrote this chapter on the conquest, and was like, look, look at Jericho, look at I,
look at, you know, Lachish, like look at these other side, like, he, I think he looks at five or
seven sites and says, look, it just, it just doesn't work, right? We know from the archaeology that
it doesn't work. Well, then, you know, Lorenzo Negro comes out with this YouTube presentation,
like in 2021, where he, he says sort of in passing, like, oh, we might have a late bronze age wall
fragment at late bronze age or Jericho. And so I, you know, I saw this, this presentation was like,
what the, like, I'm so I'm flipping through trying to, because he's got a 2020 publication out
of an article, he says nothing about it. Like, what in the world is going on? So I got a hold
of Eric Klein, and I said, do you know anything about this? And his response was really, really
telling to me, now, this is a guide that's written a book and a major chapter is like, Jericho doesn't
have any evidence of this. And he goes, no, but get a hold of him. And please let me know,
this would be really exciting, holding conclusions in an open hand. That's the one thing that people
with theological commitments cannot do. Because the theological commitment does this.
And what you do is you go, how can I keep my hand? And so you'll see them fighting it. No, no, no,
no, no, no, no, maybe, maybe, maybe, just hold that shit there, right? Hold it right there.
And it sucks. It sucks. Like, if I, if I write a book on slavery, right, that's nudge, wink,
wink. And, and it gets published. And then all of a sudden, like this, you know, we find new
tablets about laws of Hammurabi, and it's like, completely overturns this theory I've got. That's
shit, right? It sucks. But this is part of the game, you have to hold these conclusions in an
open hand. Because if you don't, I mean, the academia just passed you by, because you're not
doing scholarship anymore. One comment. And then maybe you can comment as well about this.
And since we just did our interview recently about your story, Kip, but Josh, we're going to have to
get yours while you're here. I've never got your story. Having my hand open to kind of
analogize to what you just said are, you know, convey. When I found out this is Jump into Jesus,
which is outside of the whole discussion here, but the topic is related because it's inspiring
philosophy, Christian apologists that we really engage a lot. It was having my open hand and
those like scary fears of what I was gripping for so long being wrong. That open hand and being
real with what I'm seeing the evidence seems to point to is why I no longer hold the faith.
And it's not that I can prove a resurrection didn't happen. Right. Nobody can prove it didn't
happen. Sure. No one skeptic. I don't care. You can't prove that didn't happen. It's probabilistic.
It's when you see the overwhelming evidence of several things conflicting narrative accounts,
issues that might have shown up in the narrative that we're thinking, OK, it sounds like a vision,
like they had a vision of Jesus, not so much as a physical. But then you start getting into even
deeper stuff for me and it started seeing other gods, demigods with apotheosis narratives,
ascension narratives. There's even empty tomb narratives, contemporaneous in the mid-century
CE, like Charias and Kalihiro or Kilaro, however you want to pronounce it. And it's about the
novel where Charias goes to his loved one in the empty tombs there and he's calling out the goddess
the whole nine. When I saw all of this stuff, contemporaneous and the people who had imperial
cult worship, they set up priesthoods and temples to the cult of Caesar's who were called the same
titles as Jesus. I go to myself and go, why did I never, I just didn't know. And I wasn't wanting
to know. Then when I started knowing a thing or two, my whole confidence in thinking this was
actually true and but those other ones aren't, that all went real down fast. And it was like,
I had to be honest. So I couldn't, I couldn't hold and nourish that and be like, well, in light of
all this contrary evidence and the evidence that other figures had their own little miraculous
events and things, I couldn't hold on any longer. I had to be like, seems like there's a trope just
generally speaking, mythic, cultic, legendary tales of heroic figures, noble men, amazing
philosophers, the list goes on and on, whatever the category may be inspiring. Yeah. And so I just,
and you know what's interesting about that? Having the grip when I had the conversation about these
kind of comparisons to Roman and Greek mythology or even antecedents and stuff, that grip was there
and he's willing to go, well, so they might have something in common. It's the, but this could
be and it could be this and just like you were talking about, Josh, I will say just very quickly.
Like, I don't, I think that I had, I had a, I was very fortunate, the circumstances in which I
experienced my deconversion, because for whatever else you could say, I was in a safe space. The
things that I would suffer would only be like in my family. I was in an academic setting where I
was with people that held this, this view and it's not that they were atheists, most of them were
Christian, right? But they all, they all said, look, like this, this, this position that you're
holding and it wasn't even that they were saying that, right? It was just, they were just teaching
what we know and I'm sitting there going, oh my God, well, okay, like this, this doesn't work,
this thing that I'm holding. But I knew that if I, if I let it go and adopted, you know,
took, took a more objective stance on this and tried to come at the data again more objectively,
that I wasn't going to be taking this huge risk, right? It's not like I was doing it in the midst
of an evangelical seminary. And I was doing it in the midst of a very like historical critical
secular practicing, yeah, secular university, even though the professors themselves would
identify as Christian. So I would say that I was very fortunate to be able to do that. And I don't
think a lot of people have that. And so it's, it's, I don't, I don't think that people are like
stupid. I don't think the people are being stubborn. I don't think that I think a lot of this has to
do with, one, having people around you that you trust that know what it is that they're talking
about. And then two, having a context in which doing this is safe. And I think those things are
very hard to come by. And so I, you know, I want to be clear about that. It's a tough thing to do.
Yeah. Yeah. And it is frightening, right? Yeah. Like, you don't want to open
your hand because you're, you're afraid of what will happen. And that fear is, can be a very,
very powerful motivator, I think, to keeping it closed.
