I used to throw a little bit of my own little spin to the story.
I know all. I have every, every Old Testament motif. That's the New Testament. I got it.
They're grinding and torturing them and ripping their flesh off and all this stuff.
These idiots around me are talking to stone idols, thinking they're gods.
Right. What is this? This is not God.
It's so superstitious in a way.
Come out of nowhere and start some new thing. They were a part,
they were a part of the evolution.
No, dude. This is exactly what you guys are pretty much doing in saying Jesus is death.
Gnostic informant here with myth vision podcast. This should be a good one.
You and I as devout Christians would look to this Abrahamic story where Abraham was promised to,
you know, be the father of many nations. And of course he goes to sacrifice Isaac
and I used to throw a little bit of my own little spin to the story
and be like, oh, and he replaced it with a lamb. You know, the story says a ram,
but I would say a lamb and guess what? It was a lamb of God,
which was the foretelling of Jesus's sacrifice and Christians also Isaac carried his own wood.
Just like Jesus carried his own cross. Right. And I know all. I have every,
every Old Testament motif. That's the New Testament. I got it. I was there. I remember,
I remember being, I remember being that guy ready to tell everyone about all that stuff.
And I mean, you sometimes a little tweak it just to really emphasize Jesus into it and stuff.
But the point is, is there is a reoccurring mythical theme,
not only from Abraham to Jesus, but like that's when you're just looking at the Bible.
We're going beyond. And I think it's interesting to note that you have found a source and it wasn't
just you, but it's like you're really bringing this forward. I think this is powerful because
I just did that video on Frixus and Isaac trying to give you the origins of Abraham's myth.
And there is a comparison between Frixus, which is the son of Mananthus. I think it's pronounced
Mananthus. He was the king who was promised a great land just like Abraham was promised to be
a great nation. Okay. Right. And it's his long foretelling descendants who will then get that
land. But in the meantime, his wife, their stepmother hated them and tricked the dad said,
hey, Apollo through the Oracle at Delphi said, you need to sacrifice your son, Frixus and Helene,
or Helene, however you pronounce that. And he goes to do it. And a golden fleeced ram comes
and saves them from being killed by the father sacrificed and a deity sacrificial human sacrifice
to this God. We love to go to the ancient nearest and see that at one point they did human sacrifice.
And they also have in this city of ore have dug up a golden ram and a thicket.
And that's where they see that's where Abraham's from. Yeah. And they found that there. So it's
like there's a lot of stuff happening with this ram thing. But go ahead. I love what you're saying
there because it ties into kind of the whole Tower Babel myth. I talk about this and I'm like,
okay, we know that this is clearly mythological in Genesis one to 11. Scholars have recognized
this. I go beyond that. I think the whole book of Genesis is mythological in nature.
But they want to look at it. And some scholars are saying maybe people who traveled through the
region of Mesopotamia at the time, maybe these authors, maybe Jews in exile or post exile in
the Persian era, they may have seen an abandoned collapsed ziggurat. Okay. So if you and me were
walking, we go, let's say we decide we're going to go over there to Iraq and see some of these
locations. We're going to see abandoned ancient sites, right? Well, in their day, they were abandoned
in ancient. So here they are creating a myth around this geographical spot with this tradition
saying, see this massive building, this ziggurat, this was the Tower of Heaven. And guess what?
It wasn't completed. You can see it's stopped in this hall. It's not completed. The myth of the
Tower of Babel, some scholars think is surrounding this particular abandoned building and the mythos
surrounding it is there. So my point about you saying this, but the ram and the thicket in Ur
is we know this isn't the Greek myths. We know this is in the biblical myths. I think they're
later, some scholars think they're earlier, like I think Hellenistic. And the Greeks, it seems,
were the best at preserving the knowledge that came from the ancients through not only
the people that, you know, who they call like the proto Greeks, like the Pulaski,
but also through the Hittites. Right. And the Hittites were writing in Cuneiform and they're
connected to the world of Babylon. So that stuff is getting brought over to the Greeks.
Dude, Borosis. They would pay. They would hire the best of the best from all of the regions
to just put it into their common language and Hellenize it. That's literally their job.
The stories of Pythagoras, the stories of Heraclitus always would say they spent time
in Babylon. They spent time in Egypt and they're bringing this knowledge back to these Greeks.
And so there's, I guess what we're both trying to say is the Greek world and the Babylonian
or Egyptian world, which in between that you have the Israel, there's no fence off happening. No.
This is a world that everything's connected. They're all talking and the myths are also
overlapping. So this is where you discovered something, Neil, that when I first heard you
say it, I'm like, dude, sometimes you wonder, like, you're right. I was just about to say,
like, Neil, where did you pull this shit up? I'm not going to allow it, bro. You pulled this out
of your ass. Like, and then you're like, no, bro, I found a document that has really good reasons.
And I was so skeptical even from the start, like, even as you were showing me and you're like,
that shows this very old thing that looks like Abraham has circumcision, has the sacrifice of
an only begotten son, all of this stuff. And you have the God L. So tell us who wrote about this.
So it's the same God that Abraham is worshiping, but he's doing the stuff. So first let me tell
him about this. Yeah. Okay. Eusebius was a great historian. I don't care what you think about him.
He may have fudged stuff, but the guy really tried a real historian. Right. Right. So he's,
if you ever read his, his, his texts called on the preparation for the gospel, it is filled with
citations of ancient sources. Every page is littered. It's a if you really like ancient history,
and you haven't read that yet, that should be your next go do that next because it's
filled with knowledge. And he's just preserving text that he feels Eusebius. Eusebius, what
here's what he's doing in this taxes. This is matters to what I'm getting. Yeah. What's the
context? Right. You see what Eusebius is doing is he's looking up, he's looking at the ancient world,
and he's saying, what led up to Jesus? Like, what is it? Because we know he people in the time of
Eusebius all knew that the Old Testament points to Jesus, you know, it was accepted Christian.
Well, you and I know that these are great authors who are drawing from the Old Testament,
like Isaac carrying the wood. Right. This is great literary motifs being drawn from.
As a believer, like Eusebius and other, they're thinking that these are prophecies pointing to
Christ. I need to add one caveat to this point that you're making that's so powerful. Yeah.
You got the whole obvious, whenever my King James Bible long time ago, it says the Old Testament
is the New Testament concealed. The New Testament is the Old Testament revealed. But here's what's
powerful. By the fourth century, when Eusebius is writing his wonderful historiographical work,
and he says, like, I've tried to find this is where Richard C. Miller comes in and goes, dude,
the first historian in the Christian church is Eusebius. Yeah. No one before that was
writing histories or historiography. He does a good job. But this is the powerful point.
Justin Martyr, very early on, had to deal with this very difficult thing. You and me have been
trying to tell Michael Jones, the philosophy side, not just the philosophy, but the comparative
mythology side, because Michael Jones and all these guys are trying to ignore this and don't
want to see. Okay. Yeah, real quick. You get where this is going. The difference between the difference
between Eusebius and Justin Martyr is Eusebius is part of a world that's becoming Christianized,
and he doesn't really have to worry about duking it out with the pagans. Right. That's what works
been done by Justin Martyr and Irenaeus. Yes. Now, Justin Martyr is living in a pagan world
where Christianity is looked down at, and he has to duke it out philosophically with these guys.
He has to do it. He has no choice but to say, yeah, Mercury is also called a Logos. Mercury is
also the son of God. The Slepius, sure. Hercules, sure. Yeah. He has no choice but to deal with those
texts. Because it's obvious. Because it's obvious. And so I, and tell me if you think I'm going on the
right hunch. Yes, there is this uphill battle with Justin Martyr origin early on and stuff like that
against the pagans. By the fourth century, it's not an uphill battle, but yeah, because he's already,
like it's, Eusebius is reading the fossil. This is in 325 when Eusebius is writing this. So he's,
he already accepts the notion there's comparisons. Right. He sees that the mythic world around
is foretelling Jesus. You just walk right into what I was going to say, my point. So Eusebius is
not only saying, yeah, the old prophets of Isaiah and the Genesis stuff points to Jesus. He's saying,
but what if it's also the Greek stuff? What if it's also the Phoenician stuff? What if it's also
Egyptian stuff? The world. What if it's Babylonian? He is going everywhere pointing to mythologies,
pointing to philosophies, pointing to Zoroaster, pointing to this guy, pointing to this guy. And
he's just filling in quotes and citations. And he's saying this points to Jesus because of this.
Now, that's the text that is called origin, the Gospel preparation for the gospel preparation
in evangelical is in the Latin or Greek or yeah, let this text is it opens up. This is in the very
beginning. Chapter one book one starts off with the Phoenicians. He wants to go back to the beginning.
He's going back before Israel is even a thing. He cites a guy named Philo Biblos who lived in the
first century. So from fourth century to third, right? First century. But the text that he's
citing from Philo Biblos also cites a Bronze Age priest. I always get this name wrong.
Sanconi etan, I think it is. Yeah, Sanconi etan something like but it's I put the name on the
screen for you. Supposedly this guy lived right before that collapsed to the Bronze Age. And
his text survived in temples in Biblos. That's why Philo of Biblos had access to this. Now,
you don't have to believe it or not. Some people believe it. Some people don't. In fact, I checked
that what the scholarly consensus is. I actually thought the scholar consensus is that this is
that he made it all made up right. But in fact, the scholar consensus is that the sources are
the Philo of Biblos citation seems legit. It seems like he Hellenized in actual text,
because the names of the gods that are in this text, it's a huge theogony. By the way, a theogony
is like, you know, Hesiod's theogony. What is basically like a story of how the world came
about how the gods came about the birth of the gods, right? So this is a big Phoenician theogony.
And they mentioned, and the scholarly consensus is, well,
Philo of Biblos seems to know a lot of these ancient Bronze Age gods that were forgotten about
in his time. So just to add to that, he wouldn't have known about these gods unless he had an
access to a source that actually went back this far. So imagine a first century author named
Philo of Biblos getting mentioned by a guy named Eusebius, who's very popular. And for like 2000
years, almost 1700 years, we're sitting here going, and then we get into this post enlightenment
skeptical age. And then all of a sudden, we go to the actual Phoenician regions, we find the names
of these deities. That's what happened. Archaeology, archaeology sort of vindicated Eusebius on this
point on this one point that these gods are Bronze Age gods. Right. Okay, with that being said, I
have to throw us out there for someone's gonna get mad if I don't. The text has a ephemera slant.
That shows that this has to be post Hellenization period. You hemorrhage coming from that period.
So Philo of Biblos, this is what the scholar because that says Philo of Biblos had a text.
He used it as a source, but he wrote his own news story. He didn't copy it word for word. He
Hellenized and you hemorrhized probably maybe one source or multiple sources. Who knows? All we
know is what Philo of Biblos wrote down is a first century text using sources that legitimately could
go back to the Bronze Age. And he could understand this language. So you understand Phoenician. He
understands the ancient Phoenician language just like Borosis could decipher the ancient or
Menetho could decipher the Egyptian. That's a perfect comparison. Right. Philo of Biblos is the
Phoenician version of Menetho and Borosis. Right. For Egypt and Babylon. Right. Menetho would have
been Egyptian, hieroglyphic, and Borosis would have been the Aedian and the Babylonian and all
that. Here you have a guy Phoenician doing the same thing just a few centuries after these people
and he Hellenized. That's the perfect comparison. Right. Exactly. But they also Hellenized the
ancient Babylonian. Exactly. Just like Borosis Hellenizes the Chaldean stuff. But we don't throw
them out and say no. We don't throw them out. We know that Chaldean. We know that when Borosis
mentions this God name, not just Anana, but what's the... Kisithros. There's another guy named...
Kisithros. Remember that one I sent you? He mentions the God that comes out of the water,
Oannis. Oannis. He mentions these gods, Oannis, and this is all he's writing in Greek in the
third century. But these, it turns out that is Bronze Age stuff. Right. So there's no... So
the scholarly consensus, there's no reason to think that Philo isn't doing something similar to
this. We're actually building up to a point in your ECY. Right. Okay. Now. This is good.
We have to lay that out first. We had to. We had to. So now you're asking, what's this text?
What is this? Now that we know what the scholars think about it. What does your CVS tell us?
So the text is about... It opens up. This is... By the way, all this text leading up to Jesus,
he starts off in Phoenicia with a text called the Phoenician History by Sancto Neathen.
And his story is El, who is equated with Saturn or Cronos. That's Philo of Biblos saying this.
Philo of Biblos is looking at a text that has El in it. Elios. Well, in Greek, in Greek, it's Elus.
Right. Elus. The U.S. is just the end of a Greek. That's how you Greek. That's how you Hellenize.
It's El. Got it. It's the God El. It's the Canaanite God El. Ugaritic El. And there's no,
and by the way, there's no other God named El. Well, it just means God. Let's tell our audience
this too. Phoenicians are more future Canaanites. So you have the Canaanites. It's the same people.
Same people, but you have this Bronze Age pre, which you would call Canaanite,
and then you have Bronze Age post, and you can call those Phoenicians. In fact,
they don't call themselves Phoenicians. That's what the Greeks call them. Right.
So they are Canaanites. So they're just Canaanites that just. Yes. Okay.
The purple people. We're on the same page. Okay. Isn't it weird that these Canaanite Israelites
ends up having this Abraham story? Right. Oh, sorry. Sorry. I'm getting ahead of myself.
So here, listen to this. El, who Philo says, who we call Cronos or Saturn,
sacrifices only array. You know, he says he arrayed his son and holy attire and put him on the altar
and sacrificed himself. Sacrifices only be gotten son. Those are the literal words he uses.
Sacrifices is only be gotten son to his father Aronos, which is heaven in Greek.
And but he actually does the sacrifice. There's nothing stopping it. Right. Nothing.
That's why in Jewish lore, I think Abraham does kill Isaac, but which actually makes you think
is his older because there is a Hebrew scholar. I just forgot his name. Chucks, which I remembered it.
Simcha interviewed him. And this guy said that there was of time in ancient Canaanite history
where sacrificing a firstborn would have probably been happening. Oh, no, there's several. Kip Davis,
we also got to. So this is going back to that. Right. Right. So El, sacrifices only be gotten
son to Aronos as an offer. And real quick on the Greek side, just to give them. But there's more.
I want us to take this piece piece because you're mentioning name Saturn. You're mentioned, which
is Cronos, you can say, or at least they have correlation because Saturn ends up being a son
of Cronos. And by the way, it's Sabbath is on Saturday. You know, something there too. In that
myth, you also have Cronos eating his children or going to clip kill. He's trying to kill his
children. So there's a sacrifice taking place here. I just want to mention that because why would he
Hellenize it and make that the deity? Well, look, you got a God killing a son. You got a God killing
a son of the Greek one. Is it because they were two disparate myths or is it because there's a
common source before we get to the Abraham thing? So right now you're probably thinking, OK, that is
interesting. There's a big difference, though. Abraham doesn't actually kill a son.
Where's the golden ram at? All that stuff's a good question. Here's what makes it more.
This is what makes you think Abraham, because a couple of passages later,
El, circumcises himself and makes it a right for all males on their eighth day to be circumcised
from this point forward, that everybody from the Phoenician clan had to do this.
In the Bible, it's Abraham that does that. It's not Isaac. It's not Jacob. It's not Moses.
It's Abraham who starts the circumcision right. So now you have, if it was just the sacrificing
is only something that might not be enough. But when you combine sacrificing your only son
with a rant, this is a very specific thing, circumcision. This isn't just happening.
This is not like everyone in the world just randomly doing this. You have two different
distinct things happening in the text. Sacrificing is only son and then circumcising himself.
Then now you're looking at a text that is passed down in the same geographic area,
in a Symmetric language with the same God, El. So you have a Symmetric language,
same God, El, which is found in the Bible and in this, you've got a circumcision.
Abraham's sacrificing for El, El sacrificing for heaven. So it is kind of weird.
It is a little bit different. It's a succession happening there.
We've talked about this whole succession of Deities too, and I don't want to rabbit
trouble, but the idea that Yahweh is a descendant or one of the sons in the in the
theogony of the biblical text that's kind of there, but it doesn't spell it out clear because they
want to, there seems later that all of this material is coming together in the Hellenistic
Age, but it seems like Yahweh is a descendant of El, but I've asked the question, is El,
was El a son of a God as well? And I imagine he was. He was. So here you have this ancient Phoenician,
ancient Canaanite, and all scholars can tend to say the ancient Israelites were Canaanites.
So we have the source and here's Eusebius in the fourth century AD after Jesus trying to
reach back, building up. And this means he's cooperating with the idea of the Greek myths
also having. So he gives his, his, gives his commentary on this text. He doesn't just write it
and just leave it there. Yeah. He gives his commentary. And he says he has a commentary
on this text. He doesn't just tell you the story and then move on to the next story.
He gives his own opinion on why this, why he's adding this to the preparation of the Gospel.
So what Eusebius says is such then is the character of the theology of the Phoenicians
from which the word of salve would be the logos of salvation in the Gospel teaches us
to flee with averted eyes and earnestly seek the remedy for this madness of the ancients.
It must be manifest that these are not fables and poets fictions can't containing some theory
concealed in hidden meanings, but true testimonies as they would assume themselves of wise and
ancient theologians containing things of earlier date than all poets and historians
and deriving the credibility of their statements from the names and history of the gods still
prevailing in the cities and villages of Phoenicia and from the mystery celebrated among each people.
So that is no longer necessary to seek, seek out, seek out violent physical explanations of these
since the evidence which the facts bring up with them of themselves is quite clear.
Such then is the theology of the Phoenicians.
He brings and there's another commentary in there just above that where he says
the only begotten son being sacrificed is the myth of the world.
What's interesting at the beginning of his topic on this, he points out the Phoenicians and the
Egyptians were the first people who brought up the deities, all this stuff, which we've now
know Sumerians really played a significant part in that. But it's really interesting
point is he makes it sound like this is what actually happened. So I want to give my little
commentary on this. We see the connection of him clearly making correlation to Abraham first
circumcision. We see it with the only begotten son human sacrifice. We see this is clearly
pointing to the gospel. What is the gospel? Jesus Christ crucified. But I want to take
a modern stab at this and point out something in that neck of the woods at this time. They
thought that that was a good idea. Many Christians today think, yeah, Jesus had to come and die on
a cross and blah, blah, blah. But like we see this as mythology now. Right. It sounds bizarre,
sounds ancient. Like in the time period, we're not that far, we're a lot closer I should say
to the times where sacrifice of humans was something that people thought was
they thought it was the best thing for the God, real thing that's actually helping.
You like Greek Alexander romance before he goes in battles, Darius, he gets a ram or whatever
bowl sacrifices it checks the entrails, the priest comes and looks at it and says, you will win this
war. Like that is Alexander the Great doing this like this is but before that, there were times
when it took a human. Yeah. And in fact, right, right, right. Yeah, it wasn't just animals. Humans.
They needed a human and human was the highest version of sacrifice you could possibly give to
a God or gods. And you could see this. Go check out Candida Moss's book on the myth of persecution.
She goes to the Greek world. And I can't remember the woman that they ended up sacrificing. But
the king in Troy, I think it was Troy, one of these one of these cities ends up promising the gods
the sacrifice of his daughter. She comes thinking he calls to her and his wife thinking she's coming
to marry like Achilles turns out no at the last seconds. I'm sorry. But I promise to sacrifice
you to the gods. She then turns around in the narrative after everybody cries and mourns her
death because she would never be married and have children and stuff. Then she says, father,
do what you promised the gods. Kind of like what we see in the book of Judges where
you have this promise to El that, you know, he's going or Yahweh, I can't remember which
deed he's particularly in there, but he promises his daughter, we promises whoever walks through
the doorpost, his daughter walks through and goes, you have undone me. Then he has to sacrifice her.
She says, just give me one month to mourn my virginity and then you can do what you got to do.
Like that was common. And I guess what I'm getting at is from an ethical modern standpoint,
I'm not judging the ancients. I'm making a point. Can you imagine literally today,
thinking this is the literal truth and you're talking about killing a human being as your
sacrifice? Like it's look, I'm trying to make a point. It's wild. Trying to make a point. Yeah.
And the fact that they have a sacrifice yourself or human sacrifice is like a real reason that
mean where they were like, we need a virgin for the sacrifice. Right. And all of a sudden,
everybody's just a huge slut. Like, oh yeah, it ain't me. I just got like 10 dudes last night.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just funny that it's, you can see this is dated. And why aren't we
looking at this as mythology Kronos and El? Do you realize how much of a good point you just made?
Because if even I think a modern Christian today would probably think those stuff is dated,
but wait a minute. Yeah, your whole whole theology, you see me as points this out very clearly. Yes,
is rooted in that night. The sacrifice for your sins comes from this type of stuff like
yours. You can't sit there and call other things dated unless. So look at the take. I wish I had
a Christian, you know, reaction. All right, watch this. We pull up that show apocalyptic,
right? That movie, my favorite little Indian apocalypse. We call it Indian, but you know what
I mean? Apocalyptic with the Native Americans and what happened when Mel Gibson did that. And you
see them carve the heart trying to get the solar eclipse to happen on the top of the Mayan temple.
You have this pyramid and they literally kill human sacrifice, right? And they go, how archaic,
barbaric. No, dude, this is exactly what you guys are pretty much doing in saying Jesus's death
is the human sacrifice that appeased my wrathful, vengeful God who's going to take it out on me.
It's so true. It's so primitive. Yeah, because look, we started this off. This is coming back full
circle. Yeah, it is. We started this off talking about how the Old Testament points the new, you
know, we know that's the great author. Drawing back from this Old Testament and making this story
about Jesus. Well, they're drawing the concepts of the burnt offering to the Lord, the Passover meal,
right? The Yom Kippur sacrifice for the sins. Those are the concepts that are being placed on
a Jesus and Christians don't do those things today because the last sacrifice is the last.
That's all. But that doesn't mean. So what you're saying is all that stuff is real and valid. And
you're you're saying it's it's it's working. But Jesus replaces that. So it's like, are you are you
not saying this is primitive because I don't know where you're at with that. Like, oh, it's very
I said, if they looked at Mayans doing this 400, 500 years ago on pyramids in South America,
and they go, what barbaric kind of people? Well, I've even heard Christians say,
Jesus put an end to all this, you know, archaic nonsense of burnt offerings.
Why did he have to? Why did they have to do it then? Yeah. Why did God like it so much? That's
the God. That's yeah. You're so you're saying God's ideas aren't good. You're saying God had
changed his mind from day one. What are you saying? What are we saying here? And we see elements left
over in the Deuteronomic Law and other places in the Bible where the firstborn child, you're supposed
to give the firstborn son as an offering to the Lord. It literally says as an offering to the Lord.
Here's the thing, though, you see them change this because in the same context, it talks about your
firstborn male bull, your firstborn male sheep. Like, what does that mean? That meant sacrifice
them. But instead, they found a way where they could pay for the firstborn male, they could give
like a here's in replacement of my son. Here's some money to the priest, into the temple, into the
cult so that they don't have to kill them anymore because they probably started going, hey, this is
not. Yeah, but we're racing resources. We're killing our kids. Right. And maybe their ethics
and moral compass is starting to change. Yeah. So then you come up with this like, all right,
we're not going to purposefully go out of our way to kill a human. But this is like the perfect
example to say he got killed. But that was all part of the plan. So God actually took it out on
his son kind of thing. Does that make sense? So they took a real death of a person mythologize
it into their theology that roots way back into human sacrifice. And it's just this continuing
mythos like Levi Strauss, we did the edit, you and me edited this frictus comparison to Isaac
in the Bible. He says no myth is the authentic thing. They're all transitional things between
each culture and context. And so here you have this myth that just continues to live on. And I'm
trying to say, can you not see the expiration date on this? Why are you still living thinking
there's magic in the blood? The Bible talks about this as well. When, when Josiah goes to do the
reform and kills all the priests, he sacrifices the priest on the altars that are in the wrong
locations. And there's other places where they sacrifice these people and the blood of them
wards off the enemies from coming. They think that it's really magic that really is doing stuff.
Do you, Mr. Christian, do you, my friends today who believe Jesus is sacrificed is really the thing.
Think that blood carries magic in it? No, this is going to get a little in the weeds,
but I just want to point this out because during the time in this, during the first century,
there was the ongoing debate between the atomists, the naturalist types, you know,
people who follow Epicurean types and the Platonists. Middle Platonists was at this time period.
Middle Platonists weren't, were a little more stoic than the regular Platonists at the time
period, but this is the two thought processes happening. And Christian theology is drawing
heavily and hoping heavily that Plato's right and that these, there are forms and that way magic,
all this stuff. Cause if the atomists are right and everything's all Adams and void,
is there a heaven? Is there a hell? Cause where we're, everything's, this is it right now.
Like Nietzsche says, there, there, this is it right now. There is no other. Like this is the
my point I'm making is if they knew what we knew today, would this all still make sense?
Would this all still get written the same way? Exactly. I mean, they had different knowledge
back then. I mean, imagine your, your once for all belief goes back to an ancient time where
humans actually killed other humans. Why? Because they honestly believed at that time
that a God or gods would not give them crops, would not bring their, their, their fortunes,
would not give them health, would not give them wealth unless you gave them blood from your child,
the greatest thing you could humanly have to that God or gods to appease it. So the cyclical
cycle of agricultural mythology that they have built into their whole life can continue. The
will of time will not keep moving till the blood of a sacrifice happens. Can you imagine?
It's funny cause Eratosthenes, Eratosthenes talks about how there are people who knew,
who understood like weather patterns and how to perceive rings coming and they would use that
as a, as a weapon. Right. Against society and Eratosthenes and hygienists and these writers
were just putting this on the, on the paper for the, for knowledge for people to learn.
Right. Like, look, this time of the year is when it rains a lot. This time of the year,
or this is how, you know, when a lunar eclipse can come. And like some people who knew that
knowledge would say, if there's an eclipse tomorrow, I need you to take your army and leave
because that means God is going to kill you all. And then then sure enough, the eclipse happens.
Oh, oh, oh my God, he's right. We have to leave. Yeah. And then you won that battle with your
knowledge that was like, so that's what I'm saying. That knowledge could be either use,
but basically what I'm getting at is like the knowledge is like,
either if you don't have it, you'll think it's magic. But if you do have it,
everything just makes sense because it's all just a process of nature. And that's, I guess,
isn't that funny how that works? It is in Christians during the special position because
they don't have to keep watching a sacrifice necessarily. Even in Byzantine times when the
Byzantines were being conquered by the Ottomans, 1453, Constance and Opal, the last week of Rome's
existence, there was a blood red moon. And in the sibling oracles, the Christian text, it said,
when there's a blood red moon, Rome will fall. Everybody fled. The armies gave up.
They lost the war because of this superstition. Yeah, because of a superstition. And this is
the blood thing. And they thought it was because of the moon, but they didn't realize that if they
would have fought, they probably couldn't have kept the city. I'm not saying they would have won.
They're probably were losing anyway, but still. Yeah, they're like, let's just keep our lives.
Exactly. It's interesting. I just, that goes into the whole point of like,
this whole Jesus sacrifice thing. And they're in this weird predicament because while a lot of
Protestant Christians today don't see the self martyrdom mentality as necessary. They have the
one save, live your life, do whatever you want kind of thing, but I can be saved or they might
have a workspace kind of theology that's not as one saved. My point is, is they don't see that the
participation of martyrdom is necessary. The early Christians did not say Jesus's death was it.
And thank you for dying on my behalf. Hallelujah. I can live my life and just worship you and be
a good person. And that's it. No, that's a new thing. They were martyrs. Go read Irenaeus' letter
to the Romans when he's actually going to die. Not Irenaeus. Ignatius. So Ignatius. Oh,
suicidal. I've ever read of any Christian in my whole life. That's how the earliest Christians
work. And even if you didn't go and martyr yourself right away, you did drop out of society
immediately. You were not working for the king. You're joining the, you were sitting on a pillar.
You talking about the monks and the different versions. This is what the early Christians,
like they were dropping out of society or beginning or martyring. It was very weird.
It was not a good, like when they became Romanized, they made it better for society.
Well, Candida Moss talked about how they actually try. They literally try to go to the
Roman government and say, kill us. They want to be martyred. So this is an interesting point.
Because Jesus's death wasn't all. Paul writes in his letters. He says, I fill up.
Now, I don't know if this is authentic letter. It doesn't matter the theologies there in Paul's name.
I'm filling up with the wounds because he just got talked about. I've been whipped 39 times.
I get beaten. I did this. I've been stoned. I had shipwrecks. He says, what,
the wounds I'm inflicted are filling up. He says this or the author of this text,
what was lacking in the death of Christ. So Jesus, bro, he is not done. The martyrdom had
to keep going. Christians had to keep dying. Just like you get the author of James saying,
anyone can have faith. Even demons have faith. Right. Who cares about faith? Do we work like?
So there were you're right. Early on, it was there were still other aspects of
salvation and besides just believing in Jesus dying. It's almost like the most we talked about
nihilism yesterday in brief. But take that, for example, and apply it to a circumstance where
you know, no matter what you're losing in the Maccabees, the way they narrated the Maccabees
when the brothers get killed, the seven brothers, like they're grinding and torturing them and
ripping their flesh off and all this stuff. And they're just saying, you know what, let this be
as a sacrifice for the nation to bring good will. Like it's so superstitious in a way. And
you, you, you did your Truscan video. Look at, remember the intro object that literally in
each section inside of the stomach, if the bowels over here, whatever it means this,
I'm saying this whole thing is dated and old. But okay, I'm sorry to cut you off.
No, go, please. The funny part about it is that Christianity was seen as a step in the
direction of being more rational. Right. Because it was actually some of these, I'm not gonna,
like not all of them, but like some of the certain ancient sites of like certain temples where like
those Roman priests, the augurs are looking at birds flying around in the air.
Enlightening, the lightning went this way, it meant something. If the bird flies that way,
it meant something. That's not part of Christianity. Those types of things fall away.
And one point I'm making is even Christianity with how superstitious it can be is a step in the
direction of rationalism because of what the Epicureans did. I think that's why I think,
by the way, a lot of Epicureans were preserved by Christians. So they were looking at the
rational thinkers and taking note and like, okay, okay, I get that. And they were trying to be
so I'm not denying that. I'm pushing back a little on this. I agree that they were indebted from
Thales on, baby. If it weren't for the minds of the Greeks, the great minds of the philosophical
Greeks that we know of, the famous Aristotle, Plato, all of these. And down to Demetrius,
we've talked about this in previous. The whole point I'm getting at is that's that may be rational,
but these philosophers were teaching a philosophy and I'm not talking about the Christians yet.
Even they would go to their deaths, martyrs in a way for their philosophy. And so Christians,
while they were heading in the direction of trying to be more rational, they were still
martyr-like, insane, irrational people. Let me say some how what you just said, because
the martyr, martyrdom being cool didn't start with Jesus. No. So before Zoraster was known of,
he was a Magi, part of the Mithraic religion, who saw what they were doing is very superstitious.
And he turns Zoroastrianism into a more dualistic, philosophical way of that religion. And that's
what he was kind of known for. By the way, the Platonist loves Zoraster. Heraclius,
or Heraclitus, cite Zoraster in a bunch of his texts. And Heraclitus is the first person,
one of the first people to say, these idiots around me are talking to stone idols, thinking
they're gods. This is not God. And this is considered Eastern wisdom. So look at the prophets
who go to their deaths. Plato, yeah, Plato is thought and then Pythagoras saying he spent time
in Egypt and Babylon, and they're pushing back on the superstitious stuff around them. But the
point I was making about the martyrdom thing, Socrates gets told, drink the Hemla, he has to
drink Hemla. But it's not just Socrates. Aristotle, do you know how Aristotle died? I mean,
people don't talk about this. Aristotle got condemned, just like Socrates did. But instead
of going to trial, he told his student Theophrastus, who also gets murdered, by the way, he told his
student Theophrastus, I'm not going to go out like Socrates. So he flees and goes north and
took a sword and sliced himself, killed. And so and but it wasn't there's like five
big Athenian masters who who were killed or killed themselves because they were pushing
back on the superstitious stuff, right? And are we being called atheists or importing foreign gods?
And Jesus, if you look at the Talmud, what was he condemned for leading Israel astray,
being a sorcerer, you know, and like, and even some of the stuff that are in some of his sayings,
looks like he's pushing back on some of the superstitious stuff, too.
He's at least pushing back on some silly, you know, the kind of rituals that some of the Jewish
practices and he's trying to get back to we say, like, why are y'all praying out loud like it means
something? That's not true. Yeah, somebody go do something. Exactly. And that's the type of
mindset you see with Socrates and Aristotle and Zoroastrian. So by the way, Rick Miller wrote
about this about the Maccabees playing an influence and all of these other philosophers,
the death of of Jesus and Luke is so clearly Socrates, he is literally taking the cup
and drinking the cup. You know, remember, take this cup from me, but let your will be done.
He's drinking a cup. Why did he even say that? Why did Jesus say, take this cup from me? This
is Socrates. And here's the thing. People like Michael Jones, who go around feeding this, I think
it's absurd idea that Christians, if it weren't for the Christians, and they're the ones that came
up with the morality code and that we all are building up. Listen, don't get me wrong. We're
building off the backs of Christians for 2000 years. They've mainly been dominant in the world.
However, they ignore their daddies. They have acted like they came up in a vacuum. No,
they ignore the philosophers and the great minds that made them. It is not Christianity.
They didn't come out of nowhere and start some new thing. They were apart. They were a part of
the evolution. And they just just turned out that this that's the label that became the state code,
the state name for the religion that became Roman religion. Bingo. I mean, that's it. Even
other Roman religions, you see their influences on Roman Christianity, you know, because Roman
Christianity is a whole different thing than the Christianity that you would have saw in
first century Judea. Yeah, absolutely. So there's a whole evolution that plays its roles and it's
all it's just it was inevitable. It was all happening one by one. Go check out Eusebius.
Take a deep dive into the ancient history. This is what me and Neil do in Gnostic Informant.
Human sacrifice is dated, Neil.
You have just attained true gnosis.
