Ladies and gentlemen, we're getting close to the death of Joseph Smith. I ask you guys to hit that like subscribe
Of course the typical but also consider becoming a patron on a myth-vision podcast to continue these endeavors and educating the general public
You guys can join for a very little amount each month
You could also do a one-time donation if you're interested to PayPal or even our cash app. Love you guys check out the whole video
Oh
Myth vision welcome back to myth vision podcast your host Derek Lambert
We're getting close to the death of Joseph Smith, but we're not quite there yet
We have a few things we need to discuss and we're going to
Squeeze a camel out of a net. Okay, so get ready
I think this is gonna be one of the more interesting moments where you guys are gonna be finding out
What's really playing out in history and what I love about what Bryce and David are doing today and all throughout the series is
They're kind of cutting through the baloney that is taught by the Mormon missionaries and letting you kind of make your own
Decision by considering there's another side of this. Yeah, they all claim to be
Martyrs and oh, we were persecuted this this that but what about the other side?
How often do you hear that side? Of course the Mormons have a lot of money backing them with the church to teach their ideas and their propaganda
Not today guys not today. Welcome to the show Bryce Blankenagle and David Fitzgerald
Thanks for having us. Thank you. Thank you. We've got the host of a naked Mormonism podcast
He is he is naked that is not a debate
This is not up for dispute and we have the author of the Mormons
If you will the complete heretics guide to early or to Western religion the Mormons show the book
I did dude. I memorized it that time
I started with the Mormons, but I did that on purpose. So there's the book guys
Go get the book join their patreon join our patreon man
Combined I think we could you could pitch in like five ten bucks and you'd have like all of us covered
And and I want to mention that Bryce has levels guys
So, you know, you can always help him in what he's doing in his endeavors. I've got levels David Fitzgerald doesn't know up from down on these things
Just help the guy out, okay
I was just saying that the Bryce to us and he can write books really good
There's something right so I can't wait man, he's
Joseph Smith is being introduced to an entire army and
They're actually being somewhat respectful to this guy in light of everything that he's done and
His soldiers are on watch. That's all I remember. So take us off from here
Well, so
I'm trying to figure and we were discussing this talking shop before we hit the record button
If of how much detail we really want to get into
Because we could spend, you know, four more episodes on just laying out the groundwork for what happened between
June 24th and June 27th three days
We could easy easily spend four hours on just the events that transpired there
Or we can feel Joe today. I mean, that'd be fun, too, right?
So I'm kind of at a loss for the the
Direction to take and the pace at which to take this because there is so much
Material here and you know, Derek, you kind of said this like missionaries aren't gonna teach you this story
There's they very much Mormons know the Mormon side of this
I mean from from early early Sunday school days in the church, you're taught the Carthage Jail story
You're taught that Joseph Smith died a martyr for his beliefs. You're taught the Mormon side of this conflict
But you're very given very little contextual information and you are never introduced to the other power dynamics that are
Involved in this conflict and how close the state of Illinois was to just to teetering into civil war
And that's a point that's really important to note here is
Tensions were so very high at this time
Between the Mormon and the non-mormon settlements that everybody feared
Civil war was going to break out and that the Mormons would
Well create a rebellion like they had done six years ago in Missouri
They had done it before why wouldn't they do it again?
And they were more powerful now than they had ever been they had more soldiers. They had more guns
They had cannons. They had a fortified massive city the largest city in the state
They were a terrifying force to contend with and there aren't many analogies in the rest of American history
Sure, and they're threatening to paint the whole country red
Certainly and then everybody recognized this right and nobody knew this more than Thomas Ford himself knew this and
Thomas Ford is the governor of the state and right and the politics was such that at the time in the 1840s the governors were
Incredibly powerful the federal government was significantly less powerful than as opposed to now
Governors were kings of their states essentially and Governor Thomas Ford recognized that he needed to handle all of these matters personally
And that he needed to do whatever was necessary to diffuse the tensions
He petitioned Congress as we discussed in last episode he petitioned Congress for 10,000 soldiers to help put down this rebellion
And that petition was rejected
They I assume that Congress figured that if you can't handle this as a governor
Then you're just gonna get voted out and whatever happens happens
You know they didn't hold any love for this guy and it's doubtful that they had a spare
10,000 soldiers to be able to give to him. Yeah, that's fair
There was I mean the state of Western expansion in America in the 1830s, right?
I mean this is only you know six years after the Black Hawk War these the the state of expansion required
Soldiers to move into further and further expanding westward settlements in order to
To move natives to various reservations to combat them to you know murder their buffalo herds
To do whatever is necessary to continue to oppress and subjugate the Native Americans in order to make room for the Western expansion of European settlers
But that's a whole other podcast talk right there, right?
But it is also notable that that is all weighing into everybody's
Calculations here and is also one of Joseph Smith's platform items is that he would aggressively
Expand the westward expansion
Project and by platform you mean his presidential platform because lest we forget that he's running for president during
He is running for president of the United States right now
Uh
Jesus didn't run for president in the first century this guy. Oh
Man, oh by the way, I figured leave you something funny guys before we get any further
I interviewed the guy who claims to be Jesus from Australia the other day and I haven't released it
But by the time this will be out that video will be released
And we asked the question of where Muhammad was in the afterlife where all these people were in the afterlife
And we got to Joseph Smith and he's like I don't know let me ask
This is what he did. He did this on camera guys
He literally turned his head and went let me ask where Joseph Smith at
Oh, he's in the third ring of the heaven and I stopped and I said sir
Where did you did you just ask just now right now? He said yeah, I just asked the spirits and they told me
So he says that Joseph Smith is in the third ring of the hell's
Which is not an eternal single place that you burn out you can you can work through?
Yeah, yeah, you work through the levels like you continue your life after life, you know where you keep growing it spiritually and
Yeah
Yeah, you can climb your way shit really. Yeah, okay. All right. Well, this is a hey
I mean if I'm if I'm doing what is it Pascal's wager like hey
Great, and remember this is all happening in an Australian accent. So it's even more awesome. It's like even more
Jesus. Yeah, it's truer from that. Yeah, that becomes true by the accent
Well, I do want to pick up on something you said earlier and a lot of people point to this time of Joe's rapid expansionism and his
Very daring political machinations as like the time when he you know became a fallen prophet
And they're you know, I don't care much for those conversations because you know the term prophet doesn't mean anything, right?
so
He gave a speech just a month prior to being locked up in Carthage jail and this was
Just a week and a half before the novel exposer was going to be published
He knew that it was coming out that he knew that the extension was growing
But he gave a public speech and this is one of his final addresses not his final
But one of and he says quote come on ye prosecutors ye false
Swarers all hell boil over ye burning mountains roll down your lava for I will come out on top at last
I have more to boast of than ever any man had
I am the only man that has ever been able to keep a whole church together
since the days of
Adam a large majority of the whole has good by me neither Paul John Peter nor Jesus ever did it I
Boast that no man ever did such a work as I the followers of Jesus ran away from him
But the Latter-day Saints never ran away from me yet. He is bigger than the Beatles
Yeah, he's he's yeah saying he's bigger than the Beatles at this point, right?
And you know this this boasting right? That's like a very much a biblical. No, no, you know, you can't post
Or you're not being a humble follower of God
But very much so he he sees himself as invincible
But also
Understands that the people the dissent that is growing is very much the only thing that's making him vulnerable and he's scared of it
And and all of this, you know
This is all right before the exposer and all of the events that transpired over the past couple episodes. We've discussed
happened and
He proved himself
Not bigger than Jesus
Jesus if there was a guy was killed so
You know, well, you know the analogies all over the place really
And so all of this is notable that you know, Governor Ford was no idiot
he knew that that his state was about to drop into chaos and
Who knows what would happen after this and I actually really enjoy reading from Thomas Ford
The guy is infinitely quotable about this
Period and notably after the assassinations happened
He was called into Congress to testify and give his
View of the events and to provide all of the documents that he had available or he had retained
From this entire conflict and that transpired in I believe November or December of 1844
So, you know, six months after the actual assassination in cartage
so he then
Took all of his materials that he presented to Congress and all of his contemporary notes and used that as the foundation
To write his memoir, which was the history of Illinois, which discussed the history of Illinois as well as his role in all of the events of
Illinois politics
So I I lend a high degree of credibility to his accounts and to his information because you know
The guy was being fed information from everybody. He was a scrupulous note taker
He retained everything with him and he also kept a daily journal. So this guy
his account of the events really does serve to be
One of the least biased sources that we have access to as well as a
Contemporary source of the events and somebody who didn't hold a personal affinity for or a personal hatred towards Joseph Smith
Really a
Notable account from him and again yet again through the all this I'm thinking of the what ifs of history
What if he had managed to keep a little more hands-on?
Of the actual fear like if he had stayed in the jail himself with his entourage and Joseph had never been lynched
But instead had gone to trial for treason and probably found guilty and hung what would that have done to his church?
It's right
Yeah, there and there are a lot of debates in
speculative history of what could have happened if
Thomas Ford did this or if Willard Richards did this or if this if that and there
There are a lot of questions because there were there were some bad decisions that were made in this span of a week
Right from June 21st to June 27th a lot of bad decisions were made and there are no heroes in this story
Right, this is this is history. It doesn't care about heroes. It doesn't care what we want
Now granted dependent on how we feel about these various characters. We're gonna be like yeah
Good job or no you asshole or whatever, right?
But still like it is notable that like if you're looking for somebody who's like a stalwart
Good guy in all of this. You're not gonna find them
They that that's that that's a mythical creature that doesn't exist
You know, I never cared about Joseph Smith
Honestly till this episode that you actually in a weird way like I said with the shows
You grow an affinity like right now. I'm watching the Punisher. Okay. Yeah
I just got done watching a different show which was
the
What's the devil one? He's something he's a master. Nope. Nope. Nope. It's a
Daredevil he doesn't kill people daredevils. It doesn't kill people and I was like, okay
It was such a good show the way they played it Punisher comes out
Ripture just thrown out crushes your skull. He kills people and he has a good side to him though
But he's doing horrible horrific things to bad people part of me is like, okay
You've made this character Joseph Smith into this weird like I like him, but I don't he's a villain
But I like him in a weird way
Obviously, he's nobody you'd want to actually be like but
You know unless you listen to the other side
But you know people very much want to be like him, right?
Yeah, and and that's whether there it's a believing Mormon and regards him as the highest spiritual aspiration
Figure, you know, whatever I can do to be more like Joseph is going to you know, get me
You know to hire leadership is it maybe one day I can become the prophet
And you know as a kid like that's what I believed and like that's what I wanted that those were values that were ingrained into me
Well, then there are other people who are very much like the real Joseph Smith tyrants may study him the way that Joseph probably studied Napoleon
And Muhammad to understand how they did what they did in order to gain as much human power as possible
And to rule their own little fiefdom
Joseph Smith holds lessons for all of us really
In all of this I want to pick up on Thomas Ford really quickly here because he was kind of between a rock and a hard place
He didn't know exactly how to handle this situation and he needed to be in all places at once in order to keep the peace
He understood that the militias that he had gathered from the nearby
Counties were all very hostile towards the Mormons and that he was going to have a really hard time controlling them
He also knew that the Mormons were I mean in many respects. They were in defiance of all laws
They didn't they they didn't operate by the laws of the land. They operate operated by the laws of the Lord
so he was in this dangerous situation where he's the executive of the state, but
Nobody's gonna really do what he says
So what do you do in that situation where you know, you can't control basically everybody around you
You know, you can't control the fates of all of these people or their feelings towards each other
And him you know when Joseph and Hiram Smith surrendered and him walking them down and introducing them and hand shaking
With all of the soldiers there was an effort to humanize and to defuse tensions and many of
Governor Ford's actions can be very easily explained by he was trying to defuse the situation
Mormons will often ascribe malice to his actions that it was calculated that Governor Ford was actually colluding with people to get Joseph Smith assassinated
I don't I don't think that that's very credible. I think that he was just trying to defuse the situation by any means necessary
Um, so yeah, he walks these guys down the all the ranks
And introduces them as their military titles because that's what this is
But he was also made aware that there were a lot of problems going on in navu that he needed to understand for himself
and these
Included the sex trafficking that's going on that's reported in the navu exposer and in uh,
Joseph Jackson's expose and in a number of
You know published articles about the Mormons that there's sex trafficking going on and that's not acceptable
Um, so we needed to look into the counterfeiting
That was a huge problem the sex trafficking
the
Claims that the city was put under martial law and that political dissenters
You know people who were sympathetic with the anti-polygamy party were arrested during the riot and that they were still held
And just random travelers who happened to be caught up in the wrong place at the wrong time
Yeah, if you if you were not a
Familiar face in navu then you could just be arrested
Um, you know, so governor ford and he also wanted to learn the Mormon sentiment because he had been you know
He had been exchanging letters with joseph smith
That was a good way to kind of get a finger on the pulse of the Mormons
But he wanted to go talk to them himself and see what is going on why you know, why they feel this this avarice
For political control why they feel this
This hatred for their non-mormon neighbors
Why they are able to skirt all of these laws and how they are able to do what they do
He wanted to get actual eyes on the situation and hear the words
From these people's mouths themselves
so
He has to decide what to do because if he leaves a huge division of the
The state militia in carthage to guard the carthage jail where the prisoners are
Then he's responsible for feeding all of these troops and sustaining them and also
You know the more you have a whole bunch of guys the more likely it is that they're all going to get drunk and riled up and just
Just killed joseph and hyrum right that that's more and more likely every minute
um
And notably too like governor four brought his own posse of trusted advisors with him
And he has them constantly prowling the streets listening to conversations
Picking up documents that they can
um meeting with people and trying to get intel and funnel that all back to governor ford
And tell him exactly what's going on
So he has you know a small group of loyal uh people who are going to do what he says
But that's you know, 15 guys
Those 15 guys aren't
1,300 militiamen who are hell-bent on vigilante justice
And none of them have telephones none of them have cars. This is all old school. Yeah word of mouth
speed of a horse
I guess okay because he's in jail in carthage, which is obviously anti-mormon territory, but he's protected in a sense, but
This stuff's getting real heated quick. What's going on? Maybe we could take a snapshot into other areas and look at like
What is the the guy who's like his assassination best friend assassination?
Um, what's his name again? Uh
Yeah, where where's he at in this?
What what's going on with the danites? What's up with the wife? Is there any of that stuff going on right now?
Yeah, so that's that's all really good questions. Uh, porter rockwell wanted to accompany joseph smith to carthage
Porter rockwell was very well known in carthage
by
Porter rockwell and knew that wherever he was trouble was soon to follow
Joseph instructed porter rockwell
In person specifically don't come to carthage
Because joe knew that porter's presence there would make everybody else uneasy
Yeah, um, uh, the wives as well. They are just they they are just in navu
Trying to just make do and just trying to go day to day while their husbands are in jail and just
Sending and receiving letters to the prisoners
And up to this point the the city has been in siege under siege right now or at least preparing for siege
Preparing for it's been very tense back in
Yeah, and and that like that's because of what joe did
Right governor ford gave joe an ultimatum
Surrender yourself or your city will be under siege and joe waffled about he missed the deadline
And then he sent a letter a few hours after the deadline had passed like okay. We're coming. We're coming. All right. It's all good
Don't worry. No don't send the guys
But you know
Again, he was preparing for a siege, but his words were this extermination. It's gonna be you know people are going to be killed
You know it wasn't he wasn't talking we're gonna surround you and wait it out
It was nope. We're coming in and a lot of people
So him being late. Um, they still came and took over the city
No, that was the threat right and so they all understood joseph smith himself understood and his closest advisors understood
That if he didn't surrender then novu would become ash within a couple of days, right?
They they could possibly withstand a siege for a certain amount of time
But novu is also kind of a pretty open city. It has a lot of access points to try and guard
um, but
Let's let's also take stock of the advantage that the Mormons had in this situation
Should a military conflict arise it would be very hard to try and blockade the mississippi
To limit the Mormons ability to travel up and down the mississippi to gather supplies
Let's say, you know total war breaks out between the Mormons and the non-mormons civil war
Ultimately results
What the Mormons have all of the advantages?
They have the location on the mississippi where they can move troops. They can move supplies
They can move things up and down great distances under the cover of night without being patrolled
They have the ability to spread out into the local non-mormon settlements and raid and pillage those for sustenance throughout the winter
Right because you know, this is june crops are in the ground
Farmers are working on on you know, pretty soon harvest season is going to come up
Everybody is always concerned with what are we going to do for the winter?
Do we have enough supplies to get us through the winter?
um
When the Mormons don't have enough supplies they can just go go steal those supplies
Whereas state militias need to have those supplies provided by state governments or the conflict gets big enough federal government
Uh, and thomas ford had been told straight up. You're not getting our help
So he's trying to figure out how to sustain his people legally his soldiers while joseph smith
Doesn't have to worry about that. He doesn't have those constraints
Then there's also the concept that you know, navu is the motherland and there are the non-mormon settlements around
But there are also plenty of Mormon settlements around navu
So if navu is laid under siege by uh, uh, illinois militiamen
Suddenly that siege doesn't look so much like a siege as it does an ambush
Because on mormon or those mormon settlements can rally their troops very quickly and then go surround the sieging forces
And begin an attack and close in on the not or the illinois militiamen
So the mormons have most of the advantages in this fight and just sheer numbers and guns
They just have the advantages there as well
So governor ford is very aware
That civil war would result in the illinois state militia being dragged out into this very long fight and probably losing it
That's dangerous. And then what happens after that, right? Yeah
You got you got a feel for the guy you got a feel for everybody in the situation like what the hell do you do?
What do you do?
Where do you keep your guys? How many soldiers do you keep at each of these locations?
Do you disarm all the mormons?
And then what happens if they resist the disarming?
Do you disarm all of the militiamen of of the illinois militia?
And just hope that if everybody puts down their guns that all tensions are gonna cut like, you know boil off
What do you do?
And what happens if joseph smith's now boom militia comes legion comes in and stages a rescue
That's also a possibility
That's a huge danger a huge threat and also one of the reasons why
You know governor ford by the novu charter has he's the commander in chief of the novu legion
That's why one of the primary reasons he ordered them to be disbanded was you know, no matter what happens
You're not an official state sanctioned militia if you get if you gather if you look anything
Of course, you're you're committing treason. You're a rebellion and we get to do whatever we want after that. Yeah
um
So governor ford ultimately pulls the trigger and he makes the decision to disband the illinois militias
And he does this with the understanding that he himself and a small group of trusted advisors and a couple divisions
of the carthage graze
will be able to
guard the city jail
and his logic is actually pretty sound in this because
He understands that with the prisoners in carthage and with the mormon sentiment against carthage because carthage and warsaw are the anti mormon hotbeds, right?
governor ford understands that if anything bad happens to joseph smith
That the mormons are immediately marching on carthage and carthage is is burned to the ground
so
If you make it so citizens of the carthage militia the carthage graze people who live in carthage are the ones guarding joseph smith
It's their houses and property and wives and children
That stand in danger if anything bad happens to joseph smith
And governor ford considered that uh insurance enough against any assassination or vigilante justice
who
Clever clever clever guy, right? Yeah, and i'm going to also i want to read from his history of illinois because uh, you know
He's he's very poignant like i said infinitely quotables. I'll read a few quotes from him
He says quote
Well gave me greater confidence in the selection of this carthage company as a prudent measure was that the selection was first suggested and urged by the brigadier general in
Command which was one of his boys that he brought in
from springfield
Deming who was well known to be utterly hostile to all mobocracy and violence towards the prisoners
And it was openly charged by the violent party with being on the side of the mormons
so
The the guy that governor ford put in direct command deming was somebody who the anti mormon militias had said
That guy's a mormon sympathizer get him out of here and
Thomas Ford is like you're perfect for the job deming
I
Yeah, we've seen dimming before you know this story
That's true. He's he's come up a few times, uh, and he's you know a functioning piece of all of this puzzle
He's he's tasked with basically head of the security force for joseph smith
um, and and uh pretty soon governor ford also tells deming that if you're menaced by a superior superior force than flea
And that superior force could be you know the militia coming for a vigil any justice or the mormons coming to break their boys out of prison
Um, let me let me ask you this why and I know this is speculation, but
Why would when you know that he's in this hotbed and there's a bad it's a bad spot
Why wouldn't you just extract the?
the prisoners
Take them somewhere else like completely out of like toward the other side of the state
Where are you gonna take them?
Where that's a great question, but I figure this guy's like breaking federal situations to a point where
I don't know. I mean
Well, they can't just you know
They everything to do is on foot or on horseback. You know they can't
zip anybody anywhere
and you know
I guess it wasn't that big of a deal to them in their minds like
Consider the calculus right so if you're moving the prisoners
That's a great chance for either a an assassination ambush or be an escape, right?
Yeah
Notably as well and governor fort speaks to this extensively
These charges are all based in the county of hankaw county
If he moves them out of hankaw county, then the charge no longer exists, right?
So the the justice needs to be executed in
Hankaw county. No pun intended whose county seat is carthage, right?
So in order for justice to be sought and taken care of
The the case needs to remain in hankaw county
Now joe and his legal counsel orville browning
Petition governor fort to move everything to springfield to try and get away from all the Mormon anti-mormon sentiment
Um governor fort says this isn't my case. I have no say in this the you are charged in this county and until the uh the county
justice
Remands the case or moves it or grants a transfer of the case to springfield. I can't do anything
I am only here to make sure that the laws are executed properly. I mean the executor of the state
And he talks about that repeatedly in his uh in in his memoir
um
A little bit more of this
He goes on it is true that at this time
I had not believed or suspected that any attack was to be made upon the prisoners in that jail
It is true that I was aware that a great deal of hatred existed against them
And that they that there were those who would do them an injury if they could
I had heard some threats being made but none of an attack upon the prisoners whilst in the jail
These threats seem to be made by individuals
Not acting in concert
They were no more than bluster which might have been expected and furnished no indication of numbers
combining for this or any other purpose
So, you know, like I said governor fords
He's got little birdies all over and they're feeding you all this information and he's like, you know
A lot of people are talking about you know murdering them in the in the jail
But like none of them seem to be like working together. There doesn't seem to be a plan right now
So I think we're good for at least a few days in all of us
Um, he goes on to say I must here be permitted to say also and this shows the way that governor ford is being
Cugged and pulled by the Mormons and the anti Mormons
He says I must here be permitted to say also that frequent appeals had been made to me to make a clean and thorough work of the matter
By exterminating the Mormons or expelling them from the state
An opinion seemed generally to prevail that this sanction of executive authority would legalize the act
And all persons of any influence authority or note who converse with me on the subject
Frequently and repeatedly if stated their total unwillingness to act without my direction or in any mode except according to law
This was a circumstance. So so he's
These militia commanders are like hey
If you just say that the Mormons are are are in rebellion and that we can exterminate them
Then we'll take care of this for you governor ford and he understands that they're not going to act until he gives them
His seal of approval which he refused to give he could have easily done some sneaky stuff right here
Yeah, and there are allegations of that. We'll get we'll talk about those in a second
He says this was a circumstance well calculated to conceal from me the secret machinations on foot
I had constantly contended against violent measures and so had the brigadier general in command that's deming
And I am convinced that unusual pains were taken to conceal from both of us the secret measures resolved upon
It has been said however that some person named Levi Williams in a public speech Carthage called for volunteers to murder the smiths
And that I ought to have had him arrested
Whether such a speech was really made or not is yet unknown to me
And once again, this is the problem with information traveling at the speed of a horse
He's trying to do everything he can with as good information as possible, but he's also being fed a lot of lies
I got I mean like dude
Okay, maybe we could talk about the speculation because
What you're talking about that their speculations made because to me
If I were in his shoes and I knew how clever these Mormons were, okay
Yeah, I'm not saying I'd want to all out war. No, hell no who would think think in his shoes, but
Would I want someone to take this asshole out? Or
If it's like, you know juquindo and like these people who do a keto and in martial arts
You can do jujitsu and that's like strength for strength
But a keto is like when they go to attack they're already giving you that energy that momentum
You just step out of the way and uh things just happen
You're not wasting your own energy and you're also not someone who's assaulted
You're not actively involved in enforcing anything. So you're kind of like, uh, yeah, let's uh, let's get out of here, man
You know what's gonna happen
That's kind of what i'm thinking. It's about to happen, but that's just my speculation. I could be wrong
You guys know the material. I just know he dies. So
I just want to know what you guys think
Well, so everything that you just said there are a lot of allegations out there
Uh, and those allegations are used to pin this murder on thomas ford, right?
But once again, we have to understand like like you're saying derrick like there's so many
So many ways to interpret what was going on and like we have the documents of what was what is given to us
Was written in journals at the time what was you know notes that were taken by governor ford himself or by
You know willard richards joe's buddy at this time
Um, we have notes from all of these people, but we also don't know what was said behind closed doors
We also don't know what was going on. Uh, what meetings were held in some prairie with various militia commanders
Like we don't know a lot of what happened, right and that leaves up a lot for speculation and conjecture
which goes to say that
There is evidence to claim that governor ford orchestrated this
I don't think it's credible personally
I think that he was just as caught off guard with the assassination as everybody else was
Right, but you can totally see why in the aftermath of something like this
Everyone's pointing fingers at everybody and of course good as suspect as any. Yeah, absolutely
Yep, and what's notable in this too, um, the carthage gray is that governor ford is leaving in carthage to guard, right?
And it's a smart move to leave the citizens there to guard the prisoners
You know because if something bad happens their whole their own stuff is dead is their own friends and family are dead
So he's smart enough to leave those guys there, but these guys are also really hostile to the mormons
Really really hostile and in all of this mix, right?
So initially joe came in with you know, the the people who were charged with inciting riot
Which was about 18 19 guys, right?
And they're all staying at the tavern when they first arrived there hamilton's tavern
And they they they they're dealing with a lot of the anti-mormons. They're berating them and
You know being very aggressive. There aren't actual fights
There aren't actual, you know, buoy knives coming out and guns being discharged, but there are some scuffles
Some brawls some come at me bros
Yeah, and it becomes really really hostile for the mormons
So a a court hearing was actually scheduled which occurred on the 25th of june
and this hearing determined if there was enough evidence to
Charge or to begin the proceedings of charging the prisoners with these various offenses
And in all of this all of the co-conspirators were essentially released on bail
Which meant that they could return to navu and that the primary movers who you know
These would stand like the highest charges if this were a riko charge or something, right?
The primary movers the kingpins are
confined to carthage jail
Because they were considered a flight risk basically, right? And in this case, it's hyrum and joseph. Yeah. Yes hyrum and joseph
And a few and well john taylor is also mixed up in this as well
Um, but those are the only guys who are actually charged with the inciting to riot
And then as a result of that that court hearing on the 25th, they're also charged with treason
for
Implementing martial law in navu
Now governor ford was uh convinced that this court process was going to take him well into 1845
He knew that in order to deal with this situation
He was going to have a constant guard on the jail for the next like nine months
And he knew that this is this is gonna suck, right?
He was ready for the long haul in all of this
But needless to say, uh, he was trying to dwindle down and run basically a skeleton crew there
So it would be a smaller amount of money that he's taking from the state coffers in order to support these troops
And uh, let me think here, uh, so
As
After that court, uh of inquiry took place, uh, and they were formally, you know charged with these things in order to be, uh
Gone through into a jury trial in order for the state to begin collecting evidence for all of this
um
More and more of the Mormon
Guys who are trying to stay in carthage are chased out
Uh, this includes dan jones. It was a very operator uh and a spy of joseph smith
This includes steven markham who was a confidant of joseph smith, uh, as well as one of his money handler guys
Um, these guys are operating as messengers for joseph, uh, and they're taking messages to and from carthage and alveu
They're uh, they're they're prowling around town to eavesdrop on conversations to see how safe joseph smith is
They're trying to gather intel
And the carthage grays eventually become wise to what these guys are doing and they chase them all out of town
Yeah, and that couldn't have been pretty
No, it wasn't uh, dan jones talks about how these guys all rallied around him and they started
You know, they they pointed their bayonet rifles at him
Uh, and that they basically forced him onto a horse and chased him out of town one direction
Towards where another posse was coming into town
Uh, that he didn't know about that he almost ran into and suspected that they would have killed him
steven markham similarly like he tried uh to leave with a message and they were you know, they they removed
The message from his pocket and and chased him out of town
um
Like they they're very much the tensions over the 25th and 26th are very very intense
And the more number of mormon loyalists in in carthage is shrinking by the hour
To the point that by june 27th the morning of june 27th
The only guys in town in carthage, uh, who are mormons are joseph smith hyrum smith
John taylor and willard richards and then a couple guys named cyrus wheelock and john s fulmer
So these are our only six mormons in town anymore. The walls are closing in
How how big is the population here in carthage at the time? Um, I I would say maybe
Eight to nine hundred people citizens who live there. Um, you know county seat, but I mean these are frontier towns
It's a small a relatively small town
Whereas the population of navu is something. Well, um, you know
The population of navu is somewhere between 12 and 15 thousand people at this time
Of which about 3,500 or so soldiers
Hold up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, hold up
Damn, I mean think about that for a second. You know what I mean? Like they could have just
Went over there, you know, they could have just went over there
How much when did the when did the is it senator? Um, uh, governor governor
When did he leave and how much window time before before what we're going to be getting to joseph smith
And and him leaving how much how many days were there that in between that window getting very very small
very small
Right, so governor ford, um
He let me think if I remember my dates correctly
He received the intel of the expositor and the riot and everything happening in springfield on the
19th or 20th of june
And he immediately departs for carthage and he arrives on the 23rd
He sends the letter to joseph smith surrender now or forever hold your peace
Uh, and that was executed on the 24th, which is the day that at basically 11 55 p.m
Joe and his you know, 18 buddies 17 buddies wrote into town and agreed to to surrender to arrest
So then this court happened this court of inquiry happened on the 25th, which confined them to
Carthage jail
And then through the 25th and the 26th that's when all the the mormon friends the mormon sympathizers and the jack mormons are being
Chased out and governor ford is collecting information. He's disbanding the troops
He's trying to diffuse the situation
Um, and this is all a span of a week a week's time. That's it. Yeah
Do they get back into town and say we're in trouble guys? We need to we need to get our soldiers and go down there
Well, uh, so that's there's there's a couple of points where this all kind of transpires and decisions were made
That people point back to and say well, this is obviously evidence that governor ford just wanted joseph put out of the way, right?
So one of these is the dan jones, uh, one of the mormon sympathizers who was chased out of bayonet point, right?
He vocalized to governor ford met with him personally and said
Everybody's talking about assassination. Yeah, you you you have to build up the the number of people who are guarding the prison
Everybody is talking, you know, if a moment passes that you're not watching then they're going to assassinate the prophet
So governor ford is like, you know, he's hearing all of the machinations that are going on
He hears what people are whispering
He's getting the mormons and even joseph smith telling him that they're going to be assassinated
Governor ford also sits down and meets with joseph smith personally
And shares about an hour and a half conversation with him
Um, and they determine kind of what to do. They explain to each other their perspectives, uh, and you know
Joseph didn't punch him in the face
He must have done well
But you know, so in all of this, right? Like, uh, ford is hearing so much about the assassination possibilities
But he's also thinking it's not gonna happen. I have enough security
And like I said, he wants to go to navu himself
For a few purposes to investigate counterfeiting to investigate sex trafficking
To figure out what the sentiment is and to talk to the mormons themselves to to to give a speech to the mormons
And he tells joseph smith
I'm going to go to navu on june 27th in the morning. I'm going to take you with me
And I want you to tell your people that
What they are doing is dangerous and that uh, we're on the the
Precipice of civil war and that they need to lay down their weapons and not do anything that is aggressive
And joseph smith obviously agrees because that's a chance for him to get out of jail
And get into his mormon stronghold
Get another what if of history. Yeah, get another one. Oh my gosh
So the morning of june 27th governor ford receives intel or holds meetings or whatever the case is with his advisors
And he resolves not to bring joseph smith with him
And instead to leave joseph hyrum the other prisoners in carthage jail
Um and go with his own company of dragoons, you know, just 20 soldiers and go into navu
I got to hear this
Now this is a dangerous time for governor ford because information is at the speed of horseback
So these the mormons see a platoon of soldiers marching into town
How are they gonna act?
What are they gonna do, you know, who knows what is going to happen?
So joseph smith uh writes a letter to his wife emma, uh and a separate letter to
somebody else's wife
Uh, well that was a little I think a little bit in the back of his mind at this very moment. Yeah
But he sends a couple letters and one of these goes to emma and it it essentially says, um
Well, let me just read a little bit of it. It says the governor continues his courtesies and permits us to see our friends
um
I want to point out here just a brief aside
Joseph Smith was very much being treated like a political criminal not like a
run-of-the-mill criminal
He's being treated uh the way that like roger stone is right now instead of like a uh, you know a violent criminal
Or somebody who's caught with a joint on them. So
Most prisoners you get confined in jail. Maybe you get a visit from legal counsel
Uh, but you don't get visitors. You maybe get two square meals a day
You maybe have the freedom to roam around your cell if you're not chained down
But somebody who's a mob boss mafia boss, right?
He's confined not in the jail cell but in the apartment above the debtor's prison
There are no bars on the windows. There are no shackles. There are
He's uh permitted a bunch of visitors constantly
He can have you know meals and he can have wine and tobacco delivered to him
He gets all of the the the pleasantries of being a high-profile criminal. Yeah
And he's actually living in the quarters of the jailer himself. Is he not?
Uh, no, he's in the quarters of the jailer are downstairs and actually I did bring some exhibits here. Oh,
This these are from my own uh tour in
Carthage because I have been to carthage a number of times. I absolutely love it there
So here's a picture of the outside of carthage
Pull that screen over to the right screen. There we go. Uh, this is carthage jail. Here is this uh courtyard
This is owned by the church itself. Here's you know our figures of high room and joseph here looking so brave and awesome
And you know, here's a little bit of you know, just some fawning over joseph smith
But here's the visitor center that's attached to the carthage jail
And this is where you go in and you immediately enter the visitor center
And this is where missionaries chat you up until you're all about the carthage jail and everything that happened
And they have these wonderful portraits of the prophet and patriarch of the church
With maybe a jesus bus, but who really cares?
This guy has way more to boast of than that guy, right?
Uh, so this is essentially the jail's
Situation here and the jail itself is this brick building and this is the jail. This is not a recreation
This is the real building here
Um, so when you walk in here you get to see what the jail itself kind of looks like and I do have some pictures
Of course me being dumb
But this is the downstairs of the jail and this is the kitchen area when you first walk in
And uh, you know just some little implements and some period era stuff some of its recreation some of our authentic period era stuff
This is all the kitchen area. Then this is the downstairs apartment where the jailer himself lived george stiegel. That's his name
Then you go into the open area where there's the downstairs
Um, and you can circle and you see these steps leading up right here
These are the steps leading up to the dead rest apartment as well as the uh, the prison the the actual dungeon
Here is basically just an overnight cell holding cell that's on the ground floor
Initially, the prisoners were committed here when they were thought that they were a danger
But this is ground level and a gunshot could ring through that window and very easily hit any of them
So there were fears that that could happen and also these guys weren't necessarily
Feared to be escapees
So they were moved to the upstairs prison
Which is uh, sorry
The downstairs prison they were moved to the upstairs deaders
Cell now this is the actual dungeon. These are the uh, the prison cells that are next to the deaders cell
Um, and these are the stairs. You can see how narrow the staircase once again
Not a recreation. This is this is how narrow the staircase is and this is my shoulder width, right?
And you know, i'm six one you kind of a large bone to guy
Um, I it's it's basically impossible for me to go up up the stairs against somebody to pass side by side
These these stairs are incredibly narrow
But this is the deaders prison here
And you can see it's a fairly large room. You got a desk. You got windows that go outside without bars on them
You know, these are uh, this is these are, you know, little areas
And once you come up the stairs, this is the walkway, right? This is the opening way
And if you're looking at this doorway right here, this is the doorway into the deaders cell where these men were staying
Now here's the outside courthouse, right? So here's that the window to the room of that deaders prison where these guys are staying
Um, and here's the main the the jailers, uh, quarters. The kitchen is right back here
Um, so that hopefully gives us a little bit of context of kind of the visual of carthage itself
What the uh, what the building looks like, right? How much of a drop is it from that second story window?
Um, I it's hard hard ground. It's uh, I would say maybe a 10 12 foot drop
Um, yeah from that second story window
Yeah, it's it's a big drop and you know, it's in the time. It would have been dirt down here
It's all tiled uh courtyard now, um, but the you saw let me let me share the image again
So you can properly see it. Uh, this wooden well right here
Uh, is a wooden well that lives in infamy in Mormon history. Um, this is quite a drop right here
This is this would all have been dirt. Here's the well that serviced the jail
So that gives us a general overview of what carthage jail itself looks like
um, so joseph sends a letter to emma, uh with uh, governor ford is is headed into navu
Decides not to bring joseph's myth along joseph sends this letter to emma and basically says stand down
These guys are are coming into town
This is not hostile and he says the governor continues his courtesies and permits us to see our friends
We hear this morning governor, uh, we'll go down with his troops today to navu
Um, so on and so forth and he just gives uh, some other stuff and talks about uh, there's no danger of any exterminating order
Um, so basically you're like emma. It's gonna be okay. We're gonna get out of this. This is gonna be a legal battle
I have really good lawyers, which joe always had really good lawyers
Uh, governor ford is treating us well. He's ensured us our safety
Uh, he says I think there's no danger of any problem any assassination or anything
As long as you comply and your your people don't do anything aggressive
We're gonna get through this court hearing together
Just don't do anything dumb
So my I have to make a comment that I think is interesting on what you just brought up earlier brice
And i'm gonna side with you on this too
Just from what I hear, you know, there's so many different views about what was this guy up to
Um
The governor it sounds to me joe would have been saying more if something was if he felt threatened
Yeah, you know, and if he sat an hour and a half with this guy, you know, let me say something about joe
I gotta give one good compliment
This guy is a bullshitter. We all know that but it takes a bullshitter to know a bullshitter and
He can you know read through at least to some degree now
I would think he could he could tell if someone had ill intent toward him at the same time
You could argue against me and say yeah, well the buy the guy's buying, you know, you reformed egyptian greek manuscripts
So
You know, i'm trying to side with you here, but i'm also fighting myself in my head, but uh, yeah, I don't know
It's complicated, right?
Yeah, it's very complicated. I think we need to stick a fork in this if you will uh
Because there's so much you're about to bring in this final episode that's coming up
And uh, I don't know is this is this the
cliffhanger
Let's I I have a couple more points that I think we should get into
Okay, uh, well really quickly really quickly. There's no really with you. Yeah
Well, let's so governor ford, uh departs he leaves around noon
It's going to take about three to four hours to get to navu and this is the noon of the 27th
Noon of the 27th of june
So he heads to navu and he receives messengers constantly
Coming to him during the journey and saying
Uh, something's up. This is this isn't good. Uh, you left town. Uh, the carthage grays are getting anxious
They're abusing the prisoners things are not good. Things are really really not good. Um, and governor ford realizes
Okay
It's starting to be a lot of people who are saying this just probably actually isn't that good
Um
So he also
So he decides that they are going to stay two days in navu
He believes that they need two full days
To decide everything to gather intel to collect affidavits to find the damn counterfeiting machine
That has been menacing these people for years now to get you know, at least maybe some
Hopefully some affidavits of the sex trafficking that's going on. They just need some time in navu. He says we're going to need two days
During this journey to navu, uh from you know, it's going to take him from noon to about four o'clock in the afternoon
He resolves
Maybe not two days. Maybe maybe that's not a great idea
um
He goes on to say, uh, uh, let's see
I myself entertain no suspicion of such an attack at any rate none before the next day in the afternoon because it was notorious that
We had departed from carthage with the declared intent of being absent at least two days
Now governor ford here basically puts his own life on the line as insurance for the party
He says I could not believe that any person would attack the jail whilst we were in navu
And thereby exposed my life and the life of my companions to the sudden vengeance of the Mormons
Upon hearing of the death of their leaders
That's an interesting insurance like hey
governor ford knows if if joe's murdered
The Mormons will immediately think governor ford orchestrated this and murder him in navu
And then the whole city the whole state goes up in flames
That's that's the catalyst right that's that's the touch and the torch to the powder barrel
And I think he's reasonable. I that's the thing is I think he's reasonable in thinking that the same the way
I think he's reasonable in putting the carthage grays there to guard the the jail
He's a smart guy
He goes on nevertheless
I sent back one company with a special order to captain smith to guard the jail strictly and at the peril of his life until my return
We proceeded on our journey four miles further
But by this time I had convinced myself that no attack would be made on the jail that day or night
So there could be a bit of sunk cost fallacy going into this as well
I suppose that a regard for my safety and the safety of my companions would prevent an attack until those
To be engaged in it could be assured of our departure from navu
I still think that this ought to have appeared to me to be a reasonable supposition
Now he's writing this, you know eight years after these events transpired. Um, and yeah, I agree with him
And everybody knows how to save the ship after it sunk
But it's amazing to me that when you see this situation
In the moment it as it's unfolding
He doesn't have any really good options. He's making the best of some really bad options because
You know guarding this
Jail, you have to rely on guys. There aren't any neutral in this. There's no one who has no opinion about Joseph Smith
They're either
Devoted to him or they hate him
Because he's about to throw the whole state if not the whole country into a civil war
um
So it's it's kind of fascinating to really appreciate how bad the situation is right now. Absolutely
Uh, so governor ford realized he needed to expedite the trip uh not make it two days
He says I therefore uh determined at this point to omit making the search for the counterfeit money at navu and defer an examination
Of all the other abominations charged on that people
In order to return to carthage that same night that I might be on the ground in person in time to prevent an attack upon the
Jail if any had been meditated to this end
We called a halt the baggage wagons were ordered to remain where they were until toward evening and then return to carthage
I point that as evidence that he very much did not collude in what happened that night because
He's getting this intel. He had convinced himself that what attack could be made
But he kept getting more and more people telling him man
There's a lot of a lot of stuff going on in carthage right now
And he decides all right. We're cutting the trip short. We can deal with the counterfeit stuff and all the sex draft
We can deal with that later. I got to get back to carthage and he ordered the baggage wagons to stop in the middle of the journey
And said we'll meet you on the way back
He changed his whole plan. So like I I don't see any malice or way to interpret his actions as malicious
He's he's just trying to do what he can to keep these people
From killing each other again in hindsight if if he really was in league with the killers
Nauvoo is the last place he wanted to be with a small force. You know, yeah
Yeah, there's a lot of evidence here that could be easily showing
he you know, why would he collude and
You know in real situations, we've all been in um panic situations that are like real dire and like almost life or death
Yeah, you know when something changes
From a direction that it's in you're not hindsight, you know, 2020
We're not we're not seeing it the way
Today we have all the time in the world to play the guessing game and all that like in the moment
You can't even I bet you if we were in issues
We would laugh at the the comments speculating that he was colluding probably, you know what I mean
Yeah, like yeah, okay. Get on the wagon with me, buddy
You know, you want to see what I'm talking about? Yeah, because they were tricking me as I was leaving. Everything was cool
Everything was fine. I'm heading there. You think I'm gonna head to them in light of this situation knowing that they're about to
Possibly do something that they're gonna regret regret. I don't know, you know
Yeah, well and you know once again, you just gotta you gotta like
sympathize with him because
Everything that governor ford is dealing with right now
Is the same crap that governor boggs should have done
Six years ago, right and governor boggs didn't do the things that governor ford did
And poor rock will almost kill him
Right like so governor tried. Yeah, it's a miracle. He didn't yeah
Governor ford understands that his life is very much on the line in all of this
Not, you know that ignores the fact that his whole state is on the edge of civil war, right? Like he's
We have the like you said, darryl, like we can look back on this and be like, oh bad decision. Oh good decision
Oh, that was a part thing. Oh, what but like at the time. What the hell do you do?
How do you deal with this situation? Yeah thousands and thousands of Mormons and
Yeah, this is crazy. The pressure has got to be on
So while all of this is going on in Carthage
The twin city of anti-mormonism
Warsaw has plenty of other stuff going on
Now if we remember Warsaw is where the Warsaw signal is published now. Thomas sharp is the guy who's the editor
In publisher of Warsaw signal. He's the guy who when the militant first Mormon military parade came out was like, whoa
Not good
And David you read a quote from him my last time, uh, like calling for extermination
In all caps out of a ball. Yeah, all caps. Yeah
Thomas sharp is you know constantly publishing extras on the immediacy that he gets any intel
He's publishing an immediate extra that night to just her to detail
The anti-mormon side of the events from the events of that day
He has to order extra exclamation points because he's
He's running out of him
Yeah, and and his periodicals like he's a very quick witted writer. He's fascinating to read hilarious
In his satire his level satire is amazing, but there's not much satire. There's no comedy in what he's writing at this
Oh, yeah, no every article he writes about the Mormons is very tongue-in-cheek very hilarious
None of his stuff is comedy at this time. It's all
Dyer it is all calling for militias from the nearby cities and nearby states
He's calling for the missourians to marshal together and come support
Uh in hopes that they won't be left alone to die in warsaw because warsaw was you know
Second on the chopping block after carthage was in ashes
So
Thomas sharp also has a buddy named Levi Williams
Levi Williams is a member of the state militia. He is a I believe a
colonel
Levi Williams is a very much an anti-mormon many runs in with the Mormons
In the previous years very much hates them
One of the founding members of the anti-mormon party with Thomas sharp
So Thomas sharp Levi Williams these guys are two peas in a pod
just two total dicks
who
Very much wants to commit this war of extermination against the Mormons because they're afraid the Mormons are going to exterminate them
And their cities are the first on the chopping block
So Levi Williams receives the order from governor ford to disband his militia
And he calls a standing line
And says we are marching to carthage all of those who are with me step forward
And about 150 men do
Thomas sharp probably joins him in this and gives a speech to these men
So on the morning of 27th these men are not a state sanctioned militia
This is just a band of 150 to 200 men who are out for a stroll with their guns
Now initially they were headed to navu, but when they received the intel that governor ford was headed to navu
Without joseph smith
They turned for carthage
And they are on trajectory to arrive there at about 5 p.m
Now in all of this this is when uh governor ford arrives in in navu
And he gives a speech to the Mormons. Um, he talks about what's going on
He calls uh the navu legion to band together so he can see them so he can run through and and issue
Orders to all of the ranks
And he wants to spend some time with all of these people and see exactly what is going on
So there's the Mormon account of what thomas ford said and then there's thomas ford's account of what thomas ford said
And remarkably there there aren't really any discrepancies between them
It's just a matter of perspective between the versions of what he said
According to the Mormons
Prepare your minds for the emergency
Another cause of excitement is the fact that you're having so many firearms
The public are afraid that you're going to use them against the government
And now thomas ford is giving this speech to a few thousand Mormons, right?
That picture we saw of joseph smith the last public address with his sword drawn on the the scaffolding
That's thomas ford right now speaking to thousands of Mormons. And he says, um
The public are afraid you're going to use those firearms against the government
I know there's a great prejudice against you on account of your peculiar religion, but you ought to be praying saints
on military saints
Depend upon it a little more misbehavior from the citizens and the torch which is now already lighted will be applied
The city may be reduced to ashes and extermination would inevitably follow
And it gave me great pain to think that there was so danger of so many innocent women and children of being exterminated
If anything of a serious character should be fall the lives or property of the persons who are prosecuting your leaders
You will be held responsible
It cursed me more than anything else that may have what had been what prevented a civil war from breaking out
After what happened the next day that and one letter one letter as well. Absolutely. Oh, shit
um, then yeah, and he uh, he in his own version of this speech, uh, he talks about uh in this address
I stated to them and in what their functions had violated the laws
Also, the many scandalous reports and circulation against them and that these reports whether true or false
Were generally believed by the people
I distinctly stated to them the amount of hatred and prejudice which prevailed everywhere against them and the causes of it at length
I also plainly told them
Emphatically that if any vengeance should be attempted openly or secretly against the persons or property of citizens
Who had taken part against their leaders that the public hatred and excitement was such that thousands would assemble for the total destruction of their city
So both these accounts say that governor ford told the Mormons
If any that, you know, there's a lot of people in this county who are prosecuting
Who are going to be caught up in this legal battle over the next few months anything bad happens to them?
The citizens are going to march into your town. They're going to kill you
Behave behave and we won't murder you. Okay. All right. It's not that hard. Yeah
now, um
I
Let me think here
Because I I want to um
I want to read another quote from thomas ford and I need to find the quote um because
It's it really summarizes this
So very well
Um, okay. Yeah, here we are. Uh, he says during this address some impatience and resentment were manifested by the Mormons
At the recital of the various reports enumerating concerning them, which they strenuously
And indignantly denied to be true
They claimed to be law abiding citizens and insisted that as they looked to the law alone for their protection
So were they careful themselves to observe its provisions?
Upon the conclusion of this address, I proposed to take a vote on the question
Whether they would strictly observe the laws even in possession even in opposition to their profit and leaders
The vote was unanimous in favor of this proposition. Wow
Now like that's that's really notable that you know governor ford call on a vote to the Mormons
You know, the law may not be what you want it to be
But I need you to support me. I need you to be
Upholders of the law and not flaunt the law in this no matter what happens
And he claims that they voted unanimously in favor of it
Well, and they probably did because they're not big on on uh split votes
Yeah, yeah, absolutely
Now I need to find uh, just some more information here. Uh, Derek, you can cut this out if you want, um, but you know, I'm I'm trying to pull from
Um, you know 15 different sources here
You know, we're already like 11 minutes over the hour. I just saying are we saying
Jesus
I cannot shut up. Well, and like this stuff is so interesting. I can't get enough of it. I'm sorry
That's what I was gonna say get a cliffhanger and then finish us out on the next episode
Yeah, yeah, yeah, and you can go into this detail. You know what I mean, right?
So this this this here's the quote he says the anti-mormons contended that such a vote from the Mormons
Signified nothing and truly the subsequent history of that people showed clearly that they were the loudest in their professions of attachment to the law
Whenever they were guilty of the greatest extravagances and in fact that they were so ignorant and stupid about matters of law that they had
No means of judging the legality of their conduct only as they were instructed by their spiritual leaders
That really is the point that the Mormons claimed to be law abiding
But they had no idea what they were talking about because they were believing in a version of reality that joseph smith told them
And that was the problem joseph smith is the agitator in all of this
None of this stuff happens without him. None of this civil war happens without him
None of the the the people being stolen from and the counterfeiting and the sex trafficking
None of this happens if joseph smith isn't who he is
And the people who follow him blindly are just as guilty of all of his crimes as he is because
They are following him thinking that they're on the right side of the law, but they are just believing in let's just say
Alternative facts
And at the end of the day stupid and evil pretty much become the same thing
Yes
So governor for holds a meeting in the navu mansion
Porter rockwell hears
The spies on the mission are on that meeting. We'll discuss that next time
and he leaves navu
at
between six and seven p.m
And on his way back to carthage because he thinks an attack is imminent
He intercepts a messenger bearing the news that joseph and hymer smith are dead
Oh crap
Ladies and gentlemen
Make sure you go down in the description
Help these guys out help us out
Like the video subscribe to the channel
I know you guys want to see what this next episode holds of course just as I do and um
I'm really like just blown away at a how panicky this last situation
is
but um
The church still goes on so let me know what you guys think in the comment section
And i'm really excited to hear what you guys say. This is just like a tv show. It really is
Um, I really do appreciate you guys man. We've got to make this happen
Yeah
For real, so thank you so much and don't forget ladies and gentlemen
we
are
myth vision
You
