Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to the show, MythVision podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert, the guy's prophecy.
We did a show last time, Dr. Joshua Bowen, and in his channel, you guys definitely got
to go check out Digital Hammurabi.
He gives free education, man, you know, you don't have to go to all of these colleges
to learn some of this stuff, especially as expensive as they are.
He spent many years researching this, and he talked with me about fell prophecy in Ezekiel.
As a Christian, you know, who went full preterism, if you know what that is, you know, there's
not a single fell prophecy.
The whole Bible is fulfilled, like God never fell, and his word never fails.
So we went through an awesome show there talking about Ezekiel.
Some of the stuff we're going to talk about today is going to tie into that.
But also, we have our good friend, Jim Majors, joining us, and he is a PhD candidate in Oklahoma.
And soon to hopefully get your dissertation over with, with this COVID thing going on,
everything's slow, as usual.
Thank you for both of you guys joining.
Go down in the description, everybody, subscribe to both channels, help support both of these
guys.
They're going to be reoccurring guests on this channel, and you're going to learn something
interesting today about Jeremiah and Daniel, maybe some more felled prophecies.
So stay tuned.
Welcome to the channel, guys.
Thanks for having me.
Great to be here.
I'm glad I got both of you guys.
So we've got, we've got obviously top level scholarship here.
Dr. Joshua Bowen.
Yeah.
Go ahead, Jim.
Go ahead.
Talk, brother.
I was going to say, I don't know about that.
Well, he's definitely compared to me.
He's beyond.
Oh, Dr. Bowen.
Absolutely.
Yes.
Yeah.
I'm going to be leaning.
I'm just going to be leaning on Jim today.
That's all.
Yeah.
I think we're all just going to stop and let Jim take the whole show over and teach us
everything and we're gone, man.
No, it's real.
Okay.
Okay, guys, real quick question.
It's going to be basic fundamental stuff up front, and we're not giving a PowerPoint,
even though we can in the future, if we want to really delve into this in detail like Dr.
Bowen did last time.
I mean, he took us into terms.
You're reading the language, you know, so this is the vikane in your plan.
Falling asleep.
Oh, that's kind of what I just said in a sense, you know, you did all the hard work is the
point I'm trying to make and watching that show really helps people understand how well
organized Ezekiel was and you can see the context.
Who is Jeremiah?
When does this guy supposedly live?
And then maybe we'll start with that and then work into what does Daniel have anything
to do with this?
So Jeremiah, if you would, Dr. Bowen, start us out and then just or either way, Jim,
it doesn't matter.
I'll let Dr. Josh started off.
Is that where you want to start off?
Dr. Josh at Jeremiah, or do you want to get some background on that?
Oh, yeah, that's fine, you know, so Jeremiah is a prophet that's, you know, doing his work
during the fall of the southern part of Israel.
So it's due to falls, Jeremiah is there and he's prophesying that destruction is coming
from Nebuchadnezzar.
You have this repeated phrase, you know, the foe from the north, Nebuchadnezzar is going
to come and bring his forces from the north and, you know, there's a lot of twists in
the book itself.
It's very interesting read actually just to go through it for fun.
But yeah, so, you know, Jeremiah is prophesying about the coming Babylonian destruction and
exile is going to take place.
And of course, that plays into what we're going to talk about today.
We can go about this anyway that you like, but, you know, Jeremiah has, you know, some
things to say about the exile that's going to befall the king of the Judah and how long
they're going to be in Babylon.
You know, he talks about that a couple of times and there's some people have picked
up on this later writers pick up on this and kind of do different things with it.
It's an interesting progression.
We see Jim, would you like to comment on that?
Um, well, I mean, so my, my focus, like my focus of study is in, in Daniel nine.
So I'll just, I'll go from there and I'll, I'll work back.
So in Daniel nine, you have a prophecy opens up in Daniel nine, one it says in the first
year of Darius, son of, um, that's debatable, um, uh, sirs.
Is that, is that how you, how you say that?
Dr.
I said has your words, but yeah, it's, yeah, uh, uh, by birth, a, a, a mead, uh, became
king over the realm of the Caldeans.
Um, uh, in the first year of his reign, it says, it says, I, Daniel, uh, perceived in
these books, the number of years that according to the word of the Lord to the
prophet Jeremiah must be fulfilled for the devastation of Jerusalem.
So like a good prophet, like any good old testament prophet does, he name drops
Jeremiah, it's just, uh, if you, you're not a serious prophet, if you don't
name drop Jeremiah, the 70 years that they're talking about, um, I guess we can go
back to Leviticus 25, uh, eight through seven really kind of lines it out really
well, um, it talks about a, uh, cycle of seven.
It's six years of, uh, of working, like working the land.
And on the seventh year in the seventh year, you let it rest and it starts all
over and this is part of the cycle of the, uh, the jubilee.
So once you go through these, these cycles seven times, you wind up with 490.
And that's kind of what we're getting at in Daniel, uh, in Daniel nine.
Um, maybe, Jim, maybe it'd be good and just break in as I, as I say this, but
maybe it'd be good for the listeners to just kind of get a very broad birds eye
view of, you know, the, the, the general history of the nation of Israel, just so
that it sort of sets this in its perspective.
So, you know, according to the narrative, this is what we're going to be talking
about here, the narrative, not to, don't, don't mix this up with what actually
happened historically.
Just so the narrative talks about the book of Genesis, Abraham comes in and all
his descendants kind of populate and then they all under Joseph and, and, uh,
you know, his brothers, uh, they all go down into Egypt, right?
And a long period of time passes, they all populate, uh, down in Egypt, they
become slaves and God brings them out under Moses, right?
We're going very quickly.
But see how the Exodus from Egypt, uh, when they come out of Egypt, they come
into the promised land eventually, uh, and they, you know, they take it over under
Joshua, Moses dies, Joshua conquers the land.
And then after Joshua, you have this period where you don't have a king, but, you
know, God raises up individuals called judges that rule over the land and rule
over actual areas in the land to deliver the people that are in trouble.
So this is the book of judges.
And then after this coming into the book of Samuel, the people say, we want
a king to be like all the other nations.
And that's the opposite of what they're supposed to do, right?
And God says, fine, gives them a king.
So you have the three major kings, you know, from a historic, from
a, from Israel's history, first Saul, then David, then Solomon, right?
Those are the big three after Solomon.
You have this son named Rehoboam, uh, and Rehoboam does some stupid stuff.
And he, he, the kingdom revolts that the northern part of the nation
of Israel were rebels, they choose their own king, God named Jeroboam.
He rules over the 10 northern tribes.
Rehoboam stays over the 12th.
So at this point, you have not a unified Israel.
Now you have a divided Israel, two tribes in the south, 10 in the north.
And they have their own, you know, histories.
Well, that goes on until this is when we start getting into like, you know, good
history, um, the 10 northern tribes are conquered in 722, uh, by the
new Assyrian empire, the southern tribes persist for a little while longer
than under this period that we're talking about today with Jeremiah and
the neo Babylonian empire.
They're taken, uh, all the beginning in 597, but ultimately, uh, 587,
586 Jerusalem was destroyed and they all go into captivity and to exile.
And they're there in Babylon until, uh, you know, it's, it's, it's a little
bit less pretty than we would like, but whatever, uh, 539 and the neo
Babylonian empire falls Cyrus, you know, the Persian empire, uh, does some
things to let them go back.
And so you have this pre-exilic, exilic, and then the post-exilic periods.
So that's sort of broad strokes.
Jim, feel free to throw in anything that you think that's important.
Doing great.
If you're doing better than I would, I get stuck on something.
But just sit, so to kind of tie in what Jim was saying, uh, again, sticking
kind of with the narrative flow, the law, um, even though Leviticus was
written very late, it doesn't matter the way that the text is set up Israel,
when it's in the land, when it's in the promised land of Canaan, what they're
supposed to do is they're supposed to, you know, farm the land till the ground.
For six years, right?
Then every seventh year, they're supposed to hands off, let the ground
lie fallow, let it have its own Sabbath.
This section of Leviticus, um, the holiness code, which is, it's, it, it's
debated now, there's some, you know, just 17 go with it or not, whatever.
But the, the point, I think the big point, this is priestly writing.
What we're talking about.
Right.
And a lot of priests, that's right.
They're very concerned with, you know, cycles, they're concerned with time.
They're concerned with purity, um, holiness, obviously if it's this code.
So, uh, this idea, that's what kind of wanted to lean towards Deuteronomystic.
Like, yeah, I mean, certainly one of the, the, the big ties that I think
that we can see, and we'll talk about this when we get to chapter 26 of Leviticus.
Um, but there's this whole blessings and curses thing that takes place.
And, and it's interesting, um, because again, we have to be able to differentiate
between what the narrative is trying to portray as history, history of Israel
and what we know, um, but, but for our purposes today, I think for the most part,
we can, we can focus on what the narrative is trying to do because I think
that's where the interpretation is going to, it's going to help us.
So, you know, Israel's supposed to go six years and then let the seventh year
just the land life fallow and God was going to supernaturally come in
and take care of things.
He was going to provide them so much food and so much abundance
that they wouldn't even need that year.
You know, it was, and that, that cycle of six years and then let the seventh year
rest later writers are going to pick up on this because what we see in
places like Jeremiah and then later in Zachariah and in second chronicles.
And then ultimately in Daniel, there's a roughly 70 year period.
It's one of the things that when people talk about biblical prophecy,
that's one of the prophecies that I wish they would go to more because it's
like the one that they got pretty, they got pretty, pretty damn close.
You know, that's only a couple of years off.
So, so Israel is a Judah is in exile for, you know, depending where you
start it, whatever, 609 to 539 is sort of where, you know, later, later
interpreters fell on that, but no, it's roughly, roughly 70 years that they're there.
And so the question, what, what later interpreters are going to wrestle with is
particularly when we get to Daniel and as I say, this gym is going to have
like 10,000 things that he could say about it.
But why is it that the 70 years come and go
and and God doesn't, God has not broken in to, you know, to deliver his people.
To restore, tune in, tune in.
I want to get somewhere because I'm ignorant on this and I'm going to ask you,
Jim, if you don't mind, maybe you and and Dr.
Bowen can respond to this, but I don't know the details in the prophets.
And let's pretend we're Israelites in antiquity, according to the narrative.
OK, OK, and in the narrative, they're expecting something to come.
They are, they're like, OK, not only will we come back from exile,
something else is supposed to happen.
We talked about prior to doing the show that they're supposed to be a
felon prophecy here or something didn't happen that they were expecting to happen.
What is that that they're expecting?
And I think you were getting to this somewhat, Dr.
Bowen, but apart from the fact that I'm simply going to bring
he was he was he was he was I mean, he was he was right right there at it.
Yeah, I mean, so the big thing and, you know, this develops later
in the Second Temple period, these, you know, good and evil start to
you start to get this dualistic idea.
There's there's good supernatural and there's bad supernatural.
That becomes more pronounced.
But that the big question that that people have is they're expecting
the Davidic throne, you know, the throne of David to ultimately endure.
Right. So you have passages, you know, like in Second Samuel,
seven that talk about the Davidic throne and the Davidic line.
And there's always going to be this this is King after David's line
that's going to sit on the throne.
And so what ends up happening and seriously, Jim,
like just break in and say, I'm going to take it from here.
But what ends up happening is later writers
look back at this period of exile and particularly to Jeremiah's statement
about and maybe we can put it up on the screen.
I'm not sure we can read it.
So down in verse eight, I'm going to read it from the NIV because it's my favorite.
Therefore, the Lord Almighty says this, because you have not listened to my words,
I will summon all the peoples of the north.
And if you picture where Israel is
in order for people to get to Israel,
if you look at it on a map, you think, well, they can just cut across the desert.
Right. They'd be coming from the east.
But that's that's not how it works.
They go up, you know, the Euphrates and they come down into Israel's
that fertile crescent they call it.
So they're coming from the north from Israel's perspective.
So anyway, that's right.
So, well, it's my place.
OK, all the peoples of the north and my servant, Nebuchadnezzar,
King of Babylon declares the Lord and I will bring them against this land
and its inhabitants and all the surrounding nations.
I will completely destroy them and make them an object of horror
and scorn and everlasting ruin.
Verse 10, I will banish them from the I will banish from them
the sounds of joy and gladness and the voices of bride and the bridegroom
and the sound of millstones and the light of the lamp.
This whole country will become a desolate wasteland
and the nations will serve the King of Babylon 70 years.
Now. What he means here is
I don't know, it sounds weird for me to say this, but sort of they're relevant.
And it's debated, right?
Does he mean a finite period of time?
Is he just saying like what we see?
And does it solve 90 where it talks about the lifetime of a person, you know,
being.
Yeah, there are parallels to it, I think, and he's are hadn't.
But it's probably problematic because the nature of the of the language,
the more ambiguous it is, the more meanings you'll have try to be attached to it.
And so from from the get go, you have you have you already have
multiple interpretations of what it is.
And it works beautifully for what we're going to talk about.
Because that allows, you know, so you got to think Jeremiah is writing,
you know, early sixth century BCE.
So this allows these later interpreters
to kind of play with it and interpret and reinterpret it as necessary.
So. Wow.
So maybe just sort of go ahead.
I was going to ask if you just wanted to just outline what the what
what the 70 was in in Jeremiah, and we can connect that to to Daniel.
Yes. I mean, what he actually intended by it, I think, isn't terribly germane
for us to really nail down because I don't know that I could because it's
hard for me to know what precisely he's talking about, in my opinion,
whether it's this life of a human being, if it's actually strictly talking
about 70 years, but what's key is that later interpreters
pick up on this and actually I should pull up first chronicles,
which is, you know, a later text.
And we could also we could also talk about Zachariah one.
If you want, but I think first chronicles is the one that.
I'm sorry, not first chronicles, second chronicles.
You guys were thinking, man, what's wrong with that guy?
And Daniel is what is one of these one of these people who picks up
on Jeremiah's prophecy and kind of puts his own his own spin on it.
He applies it as he sees the world.
And that's that's kind of what people do with with prophetic text.
Even today, they'll they'll they'll take a text and they'll lay it up against
something and they'll spin it and they'll zoom in and zoom out and try to make
it fit their context.
So according to Daniel, he's already been in exile.
So he determines that these 70 years, they're given by Jeremiah in 25 and 29
that they're they are he's already in the process of serving that time.
So he's only got 70 years.
And so Daniel realizes, OK, well, so God's going to forgive us.
I need to I need to ask for forgiveness.
I need to to beg him to take his people back to just confess our sins.
And we need to become pure again.
We need to we need to restore Jerusalem.
Well, restore Israel, really.
And so the at this point, a messenger appears to him, Gabriel,
and says that that, hey, that's not all.
It's not just the 70 years.
It's actually wrong.
Actually, Jeremiah, when he was saying 70 years,
it's actually 70 weeks of years.
So that's usually interpreted as as as seventy sevens.
But that's not how it's how it's written out.
It's not written out just as, you know, straight up 70.
So let me get some.
Oh, I don't know. Is that important?
I think so. I mean, well, maybe maybe you're getting lost in weeds.
I don't know about Dr. Josh could tell me.
But I think we're getting to something that's important for a layperson like me.
Who's I mean, I know some things, but I'm not like any scholar in this.
And I don't know what inside out.
So my question is where does this failed prophecy play a role from a standard
that we would be strict on saying this didn't happen during Jeremiah's time
when they said it would and why Daniel having to rehash something.
If I mean, if Jeremiah said it and it was supposed to happen,
whether it was 70 years or human lifetime doesn't matter.
Like what what didn't happen is my question.
Well, there there's there's different opinions on that
just because Daniel is such a it's a it's an amalgamation of a text.
It's it's really two three parts.
And each of those three parts are like ten other parts.
You know, it's just it's it's it's it's really, really complex.
You know, you got one through six, I'd say is is a group.
And you know, we're talking like four to maybe early six century BCE.
And I would I would even put seven
chapter seven in there, some scholars wouldn't put seven in there.
And then I think just as a side note, I think early sixth,
you know, for the Aramaic of Daniel's probably for the
for the Aramaic, absolutely. Yes, but I think it's very
more, more liberal scholars say late fifth.
And that's as far as they'll budge.
But I have no problem seeing nearly six.
Well, I would say it's probably I'm probably one of them
that would say I was going to say, I think it's probably too generous.
But but, you know, the Aramaic's not really.
Terribly important to the dating of the book, interestingly enough.
But go ahead, we don't want to go down.
But I mean, yeah, just just just just just for me,
it was it wasn't so much like, you know, the the status of the word
at the time or anything. It was just that it's unexpected.
You just wouldn't expect it in a fifth century text.
I think maybe something to sort of step back
and and have everybody kind of recognize or wrap their head around
is that first part that you talked about.
So in Daniel nine, again, going with the narrative
and you have to think this is a second century book, right?
They're they're putting this thing together in second century during the,
you know, time of Antiochus, the Fourth Epiphanies.
And there's a reason for that.
But if we just stay with the narrative itself, it makes
there's a lot that we can really make sense of.
So let's start at Jeremiah 2910 then.
Jeremiah 2910 says that this is to restore Israel
and it it references Cyrus of King Cyrus of Persia
and his his decree in the it's in the Cyrus cylinder, I believe.
And it's to the well, it's not.
Actually, I don't believe the Jews are mentioned in it,
but basically it's a list of nations that are allowed to come back in.
And and to bring their their gods, their their idols with them.
But we know that at least some Jews did go,
even though they're not directly referenced,
or there might be another lost source that we don't have.
But so they they do come back.
And in the context of Jeremiah,
that is where the four hundred ninety years begins.
I'm sorry, in Daniel.
And so from five thirty eight is where we start counting on that.
The four hundred ninety years.
But I think maybe it may be the rationale for like this seems very arbitrary.
Right. If from what we've talked about,
it could seem to the listener arbitrary enough, obviously for you, Jim,
it's not arbitrary. You understand it. No, he knows.
Yeah, I know. I just I didn't want to get off in the weeds.
But yeah, I don't I don't know how much his listeners know.
But I think it's I think it's important.
I think it's important to understand.
So what Daniel does in Daniel nine, when he does this thing where,
you know, as Jim talked about, said, I've got to pray and repent
and repent for the nation.
The question might be why?
Like, what's motivating that?
And I think it's good to go back to Leviticus twenty six at this point.
So if you remember the listeners remembering, you know, Leviticus twenty five
is where you twenty five and twenty six kind of go together.
Um, and in twenty five, Jim mentioned about this Sabbath years,
every seventh year, you're supposed to let the land life fallow, right?
So in Leviticus twenty six, there's this whole series of of
stipulate, not stipulations, but of blessings and curses
that will come upon the nation if they obey the law, if they obey God's,
you know, commands, if they do things like let the land life fallow.
Every seventh year, if they do these things, then God's going to bless them.
And you can read about, you know, we won't read it here because it's a long chapter,
but, you know, he's going to give them rain and do season,
going to give them power over their enemies, you know, give them long life in the land.
All these great things, the things that they want.
And of course, the things that they're going to get, hopefully in the millennial
kingdom that they're anticipating, you know, all these things is what they're
that what's going to these are the things that are going to come to them.
Of course, in the narrative, we know that's not what they did.
And the narrative then says, and I'll just read one of them here
at the end of Leviticus twenty six.
So he says,
verse twenty seven, if in spite of this, you still do not listen to me,
but continue to be hostile toward me.
This is God speaking.
Then in my anger, I will be hostile toward you and I will punish you for your sins
seven times over.
And that's really important, I think, for this.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's it's it's pretty much what most scholars believe is that that
that 70 has a lot to do with it, because it's to to multiply is basically
is essentially what it's saying that if you that I will I will forget like here
are the the the circumstances of this this covenant of this this promise
to to restore.
But if you don't hold up your end of the deal, I'm going to pay you back seven times more.
Let me ask you guys something real quick on this, because I'm I'm trying to speak
from one oh one, if you will, the guys like me who are watching who might go.
I'm I'm not fully acquainted with all this.
I'm taking notes. I'm hearing what you're saying.
God has blessings and curses in Leviticus twenty six.
And if they don't obey, they're going to get curses.
If they obey, there's going to be blessings, all that kind of stuff.
And here's the seven times thing, which is where they end up getting the strange
thing and Daniel talk about the four hundred and ninety, because anyone who
does a little bit of math, seven times seven is forty nine.
OK, so you add a zero and you got a four hundred and ninety.
Well, I just mentioned that to say, I think that a lot of this responsibility
for anyone who's watching, I'm not trying to be funny, especially if you're a
believer here, but I think that there's going to be some responsibility
you're going to have to put on Yahweh, because what's going to end up happening
is God has these promises of restoration.
And he has some promises that almost like after this, then I'm going to do something.
I'm going to do something good for you.
And if it doesn't happen, you know, what are you going to do?
What do you say to that?
I mean, you're going to say, well, we're missing something here.
You guys still disobeyed.
But God said he would be the one who would restore you, that he would make sure
that his people would come back or whatever might mean or how it's supposed to happen.
So when does God show the responsibility of his promises of blessings and curses?
Or is it a completely human thing?
Anyway, I just want to say that up front, because I think we're going to get
into some problems that happen here.
Yeah. And I think, you know, I think once we get to that, Jim's going to have
like all kinds of data that he can he can he can lay out here.
Yeah, I'm trying to be quiet until he gets it today.
No, no, because I because but I want to make sure that that everybody
kind of has this backdrop.
So again, the question remains, if we have this this language here
about let the land rest every seventh year.
And if you if you still harden your heart and disobey me, I'm going to punish
you seven times more for your sins.
This is a trope then down in verse, you know, 36 of Leviticus 26.
As for those of you who are left, I will make their heart so fearful in the lands
of their enemies that the sound of a wind blown leaf will put them to flight.
You know, so there's there's all these things.
Verse 38, you will perish among the nations.
It gives glad of your enemies will devour you.
Right. Those of you who are left will waste away in the land.
Ancestors sins, they will waste away.
Verse 40, but if they will confess their sins and the sins of their ancestors,
their unfaithfulness and their hostility toward me, which made me hostile toward
them so that I sent them into the land of their enemies, then when their
uncircumcised hearts are humbled and they pay for their sin, I will remember
my covenant with Jacob and my covenant with Isaac and my covenant with Abraham.
And I will remember the land so in that I'm getting to get goosebumps whenever
I do this oddly enough.
So when so then when you think about what Daniel does again in the narrative,
Daniel realizes by books, right?
He's reading ostensibly, reading Jeremiah and going, well, hot damn 70 years.
We're about there, right?
And he prays or we are there, however it is, you know, but.
And he prays, he doesn't just go, well.
It's a common, right?
He goes, oh, shit, I got, I got to say something here, Josh.
This is really important for anyone who's missing this context.
If it weren't for your last episodes and us talking about Daniel, when you
say 70 years, we're about there or we're there, let me pause for the scholarly
and separate it for the basic, you know, people like me.
Remember Daniel's setting is not during Antiochus Epiphanies, according to the narrative.
OK, we're talking scholar in real history when we talk about that, but it's back
in towards the Babylonian captivity times and whatnot and purges coming on the scene
and whatnot. So I say that for anyone who's listening.
There's this, like, not really much of a gap between the story of Jeremiah and the
story of Daniel, but when Daniel really takes place, at least chapters eight,
I'll give you, Jim, the benefit of the doubt, eight through 12 and just say,
hey, this is Antiochus Epiphanies area.
You know, this is second century B.C. most likely.
So anyway, please, I don't want them to lose track, continue and maybe
rephrase what you just said there, Dr. Josh, because I think it's important.
And so when you think about what Daniel's doing, Daniel realizes that the 70 years
have transpired or really, really close to having transpired.
And he says, like, the time's almost up, right?
We're getting ready to go back.
But there's something that has to happen first.
And the thing that has to happen first is we have to repent, right?
We have to turn.
And so if you think about, I'll just, I mean, Jim, you read it, but I'll
just pull it up again real quick.
On the, in the first year of Darius, son of Xerxes, a mead by descent,
a one who made the ruler from Babylon, one made ruler over the Babylonian kingdom.
In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel understood from the scriptures,
according to the word of the Lord, given to Jeremiah the prophet at the
desolation of Jerusalem with last 70 years.
So I turned to the Lord God and pleaded with him in prayer and petition,
in fasting with sackcloth and ashes.
And I prayed and confessed, prayed to my Lord, my God, I confessed.
Lord, O great and awesome, who keeps his covenant with love, with those
who love him and keep his commandments, we have sinned and done wrong, right?
We have been wicked and rebelled.
He, so he apologizes like he's, he's repenting for the nation and for
all these things that have done.
So I guess the point is that he's recognizing that the curses have
befallen Israel so much so that they've finally gone into exile and like
not to go off on anything, but if you can read Leviticus 26 and Deuteronomy
28 and you can, you can make connections to what happens in Israel's history.
The one that I always like to point out is when Elisha, you know, is coming
up, having taken the, you know, taken Elijah's mantle and these children come
out and say, go up, thou bald head, go up, thou bald head, which, you know, is
my King James version quoting there because that's how I memorized it.
Elisha turns and curses them.
And what happens, what two she bears come out of the woods.
Well, if you, and kill, sorry, I need to finish that.
And kill what 42 kids 42 of the males.
Yeah, 42 boys.
It says they didn't kill any girls.
So where is it in trying to find it where, yeah, verse 21 of Leviticus 26,
if you remain hostile toward me and refuse to listen to me, I will multiply
your afflictions seven times over as your sins deserve.
I will send wild animals against you and they will rob you of your children,
destroy your cattle and make you few in number so that your roads will be deserted.
So, you know, the idea that's supposed to come across to the reader here is
that Daniel's recognizing, well, damn, we've rebelled and God has kept his word
and God has sent all these curses upon us.
So now it's time for me to repent and repent, not just for me, but for the nation
and for those that how we rebelled in the past and God will then restore.
And this is why, you know, so now I think we can kind of, Jim can now take
this thing over, but this is why when Gabriel comes and says, well,
how that thing said seven times for your sins back up, back up, you broke up for
last sentence.
Sorry.
Oh, sorry.
Um, so I don't remember where I broke off, but so when, when Gabriel.
I know you're anticipating that when I come down here, it's going to be like,
hot damn, you did it.
I don't know why I keep saying hot damn today, but, you know, you did it, Daniel.
You prayed and you win the grand prize, you know, you repented of your sins and
now I'm going to restore everything.
He says, well, you know, actually, actually, it's, uh, it's going to be seven
times 70, right?
Because God's going to punish seven times more for their sins.
Um, but Daniel gets the great blessing of having these things revealed to him
because he's a good guy.
Um, and, and, and that's where, you know, this, this 490 from one interpretive
aspect, it, it fits, right?
I think John Collins says, uh, this is the earliest, uh, actual biblical
interpretation in the biblical text and one, at least one of the earliest.
Um, so you have this 490 year period out, Jim can go into all this detail about
the different interpretations I can help.
Um, but, you know, there are different ways that people look at this 490 years
and they say, is it a fixed period of time?
Is it supposed to be 490 years?
Is it sort of like general, just the long period of time?
What is it?
So, you know, Jim, tell us what is the answer?
Right.
Well, essentially they, they thought, um, you know, 70 year under the thumb here.
Um, so they're, one of the interpretations was that, uh, the, the
70 years of Jeremiah and so, uh, um, yeah, that's right, right.
Back up a little, we just broke out again.
I'm sorry.
Internet connection is bad.
Huh.
The internet connection was bad and it, you broke out.
I'm sorry.
And Jim, could I just, I'm really sorry.
Can I just add one thing that I didn't mention that I think is important?
And I think it will be necessary for your explanation.
We, we started talking about letting the land lie fallow every seven years.
Why did, why did we start off with that?
Well, um, in second Chronicles 36, you know, Chronicles is obviously much late.
Not maybe not obviously, but it's much later.
It's a late text and it's another place where they're interpreting what
happens to Judah, uh, to the, to, to the nation of Israel, the Southern nation.
So in, in second Chronicles 36, verse 20, uh, talking about the
new Babylonian empire, Nebuchadnezzar, he carried into exile to Babylon, the
remnant who escaped from the sword and they became servants to him and his
successors until the kingdom of Persia came to power.
Verse 21, the land enjoyed its Sabbath rests all the time of its desolation.
It rested until the 70 years were completed in fulfillment of the word
of the Lord spoken by Jeremiah.
So Chronicles is tying two things together.
It's taking Jeremiah's prophecy and it's taking Leviticus 26 and it's
saying Leviticus 25 and 26 and it's saying, okay.
You know, this is difficult to do, but like roughly there's 490 years.
Of the monarchy, right?
From the time Saul starts raining, there's like roughly according to the
narrative, whatever, 490 years.
So if you think about that every seventh year, they're supposed to let the land
lie fallow.
Well, if they're there for nearly 500 years and they don't ever let the land
lie fallow, well, that's 70, 70 times they didn't do it.
Right.
So then second Chronicles is saying, okay, the reason that they were sent
into captivity for 70 years was because they didn't give the land that rest
every seventh year and they were there for long enough to have 77 years.
So for one year for every year, they didn't let it lie fallow so that the
land has its rest.
So that's what it's doing.
And that's what that's where the rationale comes from.
Um, which again, making these connections, I think back to Leviticus 25 and 26 is
really important right in this discussion.
Sorry, I've talked a lot.
No, no, no, that's fine.
No, it's just great.
Like Leviticus 25, it talks about seven Sabbaths of years.
So that's seven sevens is seven times years.
Um, uh, and they say that's, that's the, the, the seven Sabbaths of years
amount to a period of 49 years.
That's, uh, Leviticus 25, eight, uh, seven, seven or eight, maybe it's seven and eight.
But yeah, so that's, so, so Daniel is reinterpreting this because these 70
years have, have come and gone and it's, it's convenient.
Now it's, it's really hard for me to talk about this because my, my, my
dissertation work is actually about a lot about this, about the, the, the, the
selection methodology of these, of the, the, the later redactor of the first six
or seven chapters.
Um, so I, I'm of the opinion that the, the later second century BCE, uh, redactors,
the, uh, I believe it was a chapter seven through 12.
Um, that they were, that they specifically chose Daniel one through six for
the narratives and the ties that it had to all of these things that were going on,
um, in the, the, the, the sixth century.
Uh, because, um, even the first part of Daniel, they've, the first six, seven
chapters, um, they're not as bad of a liar as the second half of, of Daniel is,
but they're still liars.
They're, they're, they're still, um, talking in, uh, talking as if they are
living in this time when actually they're, they're writing hundreds of years
after it, a couple hundred years after it.
Um, and then you have these, these later ones, these later, uh, redactors
are coming in the second century.
They choose these first six, seven, uh, first six chapters and they, uh, they
buy the end of the, uh, the second century.
See, they have already, um, uh, compiled, uh, the, the, the book of Daniel.
Um, and I believe that they, they did it as a, uh, a means to incite, uh,
revolution against, uh, against Roman rule.
Um, uh, yeah, but I don't want to get too far into that just because that I,
I don't want to, uh, uh, I mean, I haven't been defended my
dissertation yet, so I don't really want to just put that out there.
But in case, but in case people do kind of want to get into it, there's a,
there's a relatively new book out.
I think John Collins, um, the co-authority, I don't remember, but it's,
um, it's, uh, I'm trying to remember the title.
It's like utilizing apocalyptic, uh, the apocalyptic genre to, um, and now I
want to go pull it off the shelf, uh, but it's, it's utilizing the apocalyptic
genre to, um, it's something like incite revolt or something like that.
Do you remember, you know, a book I'm talking about?
Um, by Collins, uh, I think he either co-authored it or, uh, maybe he was
the editor, I don't remember, I'm not near my bookshelf, but I'll, I'm
looking at my, uh, but, um, so I got to, I got to ask you guys, um, the
dummy's got to speak up here.
I, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's complex, man.
It's really, I mean, I've been talking for a while, so thank you.
No, I keep up, I'm keeping up with what you're saying, but if there's anyone
who hasn't heard some of the things you were saying, you know, they're
clicking on this video and they're saying, okay, Derek, you said there's
some failed prophecy from Jeremiah to Daniel.
This is a lot of information.
There's a lot of detail here and maybe it's over their head.
Can you break down real simply, Jim?
Cause I know you've, you've gone on Dr.
Bowen, I think Jim is in the Daniel phase.
Daniel is trying to redeem a problem.
I think that Jeremiah is creating by saying 70 years.
If I'm not mistaken.
Well, so the problem there, when we're talking about Daniel nine, when
we're talking about the interpretation of the 490 years, um, there
is no one decided start date or end date.
Like the scholarship is still ongoing on that.
No, there's, nobody's come to a, a definitive conclusion.
Um, the, the most popular one is starting off in, uh, in 444, 445 BCE.
Um, the, uh, decree of, uh, Nehemiah.
Um, it, um, but there, there are several other ones.
So whenever it's talking about Phil prophecy, uh, really all of them fill, um,
you have your Jewish interpretations, you have, um, uh, we, you have your, uh, I guess
what you could, what you could call the, the orthodox position.
You had, you know, a later rabbinical interpretation.
You had everything in between.
They need, you had Christian interpretations of it, um, of course,
to, uh, um, to make Jesus apply to this, uh, to this, uh, this one,
like, uh, a son of band figure, um, uh, the, the, uh, Messiah, if you will.
So let me ask you this then to probe going back into the author of Daniel and
let's not go too much further, uh, because we can get lost into the Jesus stuff.
And this is later, uh, if we're looking at Daniel, what is Daniel doing using
Jeremiah's 70 years?
Well, you know, like is, is he saying, look, um, any
time now, but really he's fixing a problem here by using this.
So, um, the way Daniel's portraying it, the 70 weeks start with a word or a, a,
uh, a, a, a decree, um, and it's a period of 70 initial years, right?
Um, and so Daniel's looking to see what he can apply this to, um, the readers
of Daniel are looking to see who they apply this to the, uh, the, the people
who were later using it as a source document are trying to see what they
can apply it to in their, in their content, in their, uh, uh, their, their,
in their timeline.
Um, so, but they have, they have to start with a, a decree this the, the 70 years.
So let's just say, let's start talking, let's talk about like what, what the
rabbis would have, would have looked at like from like the second temple, right?
Um, uh, so, uh, Jeremiah 29, 10 says that after these 70 years are accomplished
that he is going to remember, uh, Israel, he's going to perform his, his, uh,
good word toward them and he's going to return them to, uh, to Israel and restore
it, um, and that after that, that 70 years that it would be desolate in ways
that he would, uh, he would restore it back to it's, it's, it's, uh, it's,
it's former glory.
And this is, let me ask you, did he do that?
And this is, if, if I could, cause like, I think what Derek, if you're
correct me if I'm wrong, if you're what you're getting at setting aside for a
second, what the 490 years were, right?
Why, why are we even dealing with this?
And I think if we step out of the narrative for a second, um, and step
into, you know, the actual, you know, what actually happened in history, right?
You know, Jim has said it several times, uh, this is a second century text.
So you have people in the second century, they've undergone, you know, the,
the Babylonian captivity has ended.
They've, they've been able to go back and rebuild this, you know, much,
much smaller, you know, uh, temple that makes everybody weep that, that
saw the first temple, right?
Because it's just so cute, you know, it's, it's just not the same temple.
Um, and the people in the second century, they've, they've undergone
Persian rule.
Now they're under the Greek rule, Seleucid empire.
And they're like, what the hell?
You know, now we've got this, this douchebag, Antiochus epiphanies, right?
And, and like we, where's the glory?
What, where's the restored Israel, the restored Judah and Jerusalem?
What, what, what are we doing?
Because now, like we're looking around and we're not on top.
We're not top cat.
You know, we're still, you know, the bottom rung.
Everybody's on top of us.
Everybody's, you know, using us and beating on us.
What's the deal?
How do we rationalize what we see in Jeremiah?
What we see, uh, that 70 years were supposed to come in and then God was
going to take it all back.
And now there's a question that has to be dealt with.
And so the reason that the compiler of Daniel, or that, you know, whoever put
this thing together is coming at this is to say, this is all part of God's plan.
Don't you, for a second, think that God failed a prophecy, even though it
sure as hell seems like he did.
And just so you don't think it is, he's going to, uh, send his personal, he's
going to send Gabriel, this angel, this messenger, and he's not just going to
prophesy just something in your lifetime.
He's going to prophesy something so far, uh, so, so far ahead that the people
who will be reading this text will look at it and marvel at how accurate he is.
Right, pretending to be written in like fifth, sixth century BC, whereas it's
really a hundred years later, and you can tell even when you're looking
at the, at chapters one through six, you, you can, we can look at this.
We can find historical inaccuracies.
It doesn't read like a text that is written by somebody who was living in
that time, because they would know who their king is.
They would know who the son of their king is.
They would know what their name is, um, you know, things, simple things like that.
But as it progresses, as we get closer to the second century, as we get closer
to this point of compilation of the book of Daniel, um, all of a sudden it gains
adherence and, uh, and detail, you can, you can better conceive it.
And things are like clicking even like the most figurative language.
People are still coming to definitive conclusions about what these represent.
Um, just because it's, it's so accurate that things that are going on with the,
the, the Persians and the Meads and the Babylonians in Rome, uh, it's just, uh,
all of the imagery is just too good to be true.
So, so Daniel's really setting himself up to be one hell of a prophet.
But this is the rationale that, like, this is the rationale that everybody
is having as they, as they come to, um, particularly biblical prophecies because
see, I don't want to say that every new prophecy sort of shoots the, you know,
the, the future, uh, interpreters in the, you know, in, in the leg or something.
And that causes problem, but it does, right?
So you have, you have first century CE, I think the first century, um, you
know, maybe second century, looking at this text, I thought it was Josephus
that said this, but, um, you know, looking at Daniel and say, well, actually,
I know it's, I mean, I know it, it says Greece, but he, you know, he, he just
didn't quite understand.
It's actually Rome.
That's supposed to be, you know, uh, that, that, that, that fourth kingdom.
And so, wow.
And this is the, this is the problem that we see, right?
So I actually want to read something that's, I just want to add one thing.
It's really important to not give Josephus too much credit here because these
people who are reading it, they didn't know that it was a second century
writer either.
Yeah.
Oh, you mean they didn't know that Daniel didn't exist in the second century.
They think he's back in time.
But from the time of compilation, these, these, these redactors, um, uh, somehow
pulled off this, this awesome hoax, this awesome scheme that this, this prophetic
book, uh, Daniel, which was already authoritative to them.
So these, these stories were earlier oral traditions and written traditions that
they were already very familiar with.
So it was super easy for them to associate with.
So with the familiarity of these old texts that they already knew from that,
that, you know, that their grandmother's grandmother told them, you know, um,
to the, the, the modern day, uh, seeming predictions that this book is making, uh,
they, they just latched onto it real quick.
They had no trouble accepting its authenticity as a prophetic text.
Dr.
Bowen.
Well, I just, I think that's the thing to bear in mind through all of this is
that the problem that they're trying to wrestle with is the same problem that
later interpreters wrestle with down to, uh, you know,
I, you know, I was a dispensationalist, an ultra dispensationalist and I was a
Christian and it's the same problem that I was dealing with because all right,
let's take, let's just go with it for a second and say, all right,
the 490 years is actually 490 years.
And you know, uh, sir Robert Anderson was right.
And it is the day that Jesus rode that camel.
I mean, camel, rode that donkey, right?
Or the camel rode that donkey.
And that's the day that that's the end of the 490 years, right?
Period.
We still have a problem, right?
Um, because we're talking about, and this eschatological theme, um,
where the, the end of time, the, the, the resurrection, maybe not a physical
resurrection, but a resurrection.
This was something that was a, going to be a real event, even those figurative
language, this was something that they were looking for and looking forward to.
And this is why, like it, that requires an explanation all the time because,
all right, so this is why when you see that the, the breakup of the 62 weeks and
the seven weeks, however it is, I mean, the, the final week, um, you know, seven
and then six days, anyway, seven, 62 and one, um, how, however it is that you do
that, I mean, the way that we wrestled with it was we said, okay, 483 years,
that ends at the crucifixion, right?
Around there.
Right.
But then, you know, God gives a little bit of grace, grace and, and, but then
we're waiting for that third period to start, just waiting for that last week.
But this is why, this is why when, um, you know, uh, when Saul is there, I mean,
uh, when Stephen gets stoned in Acts chapter eight, that he looks up into
heaven and he sees the son of man standing at the right hand of the father.
Well, when does he stand?
He stands in judgment.
He was anticipating it.
He wasn't supposed to get his throne until when.
Yeah.
And, and, but this is the problem, right?
So, so now, now God's getting ready.
This is when the final week is coming.
This tribulation period.
I mean, it's a whole system, but why, why didn't it come?
Why no set, you know, why no seven year tribulation period?
It's because God in his mercy and in his grace reached down and saved the leader
of the rebellion, Saul of Tarsus and converted him to, you know, now he's Paul
and ushered in the dispensation of the grace of God.
And now that seven year tribulation period is held in abeyance for God knows how
long it's almost like another angel came and said, Oh, by the way, Gabriel said
that, but listen, my name's Michael and I want to tell you, no, I'm just kidding.
But, but, but that's, that's, that's problematic because, because yeah,
I mean, it might have been great for the people who were being persecuted at the
time to get a little bit of relief in knowing that they could anticipate, you
know, the, the coming of, of, of God's kingdom, because that's, that's what
this all was, this eschatological end.
It wasn't just the end of the world, but it was the start of a new one, you
know, God's kingdom, you know, and, and Israel back on top, baby.
And then what happens then they just, they get passed around, they get passed
around from the Babylonians, the Persians, the Meads to the Romans, just getting
bullied.
And I mean, that they, they, I'm honestly surprised that they were able to
maintain a sense of identity through everything that they went through.
And as, as, as, as, as spread out as they were, you know, it's, it's amazing
really, but, but the fact is, whenever they come back together, they have to
account for it somehow because they all know that Jeremiah prophesied this and
it didn't happen.
So God's got some splayin' to do, Lucy, you know.
So that's the thing.
Yeah.
Go ahead, Dr.
Josh, I don't want to.
And I was just going to say, sort of to put that, you know, the cherry on
top is this was the expectation of Jesus.
And this was the expectation of Paul.
Yes.
So when you read Mark 13 and you read, isn't Mark 13, I think, and, and
certainly Matthew 24, the temple.
Yeah.
Um, you know,
there's some today who will not die and standing here today.
That's a, this generation will not pass.
And, and Paul, I mean, think about it.
First Thessalonians four.
We who are alive and remain, remain us.
Well, Matthew 16, 27 to 28, he says, some of you standing here will not
taste death till you see the Son of Man coming in the glory.
That's right.
Bring the pain to each man, even to the point to where, Hey, if you can't
keep being in your pants, you know, um, uh, just don't, just don't get married.
Just, you know, just, just, just, just don't, don't worry about that.
You know, because you don't want to have to worry about this extra
stuff because he's coming back real soon.
It's almost like the eschatology, this purposeful end.
It's like, dude, guys, we keep having to fix this.
Um, the end has got to be near because we can't keep piggybacking.
Like you said, Dr.
Bowen, I want to kind of break this down real quick, real simple.
I love how you said that these profits that are written as if they're back
here, which are written later, are by incident shooting the next guy in the leg.
And saying, I hope you make it, uh, in your time, figure out how you're
going to fix this problem that I just created for you, because they screwed it
up because I want to start with 70, 70 years.
Jeremiah, it falls through, which is why he has to place himself back
in these times to say, we've got to fix this.
And then an angel appears to him during the time.
Supposedly, uh, actually it's 70 weeks of years, 490.
And then boom, now you're in Antiochus Epiphanes time.
Sure.
And yet he's still pointing.
Uh, she was at, uh, Daniel chapter 11 verse 35, I believe is where the
prophecies take a bad turn up until that point.
Tell me something about that.
I, I, I just cannot wait up until that point.
Like, like they're nailing the prophecies until they predict the death of Antiochus.
Um, uh, but I'm, I'm convinced, uh, just, I, I believe that he died in a temple.
He was killed in a temple, writing a temple.
Um, uh, probably by, uh, one of, uh, uh, Matthias's boys.
Um, but, uh, but that, that wasn't the, uh, like he was supposed to take over Ethiopia.
He was supposed to take over Egypt.
He was supposed to do all of these things after, um, uh, after he had already died
in real life.
Um, so you, that, that's actually the best way that we date that text is because
it's accurate up until that point.
And we can actually pinpoint it like 167, 164, 165.
Like we can get pretty dang close.
Wow.
And if you, if you think about the people that are living at that time and the message
that the book is, is, is what its point is, what that text is doing, let's, let's
say the three of us are living there.
And I mean, hell, it's hell on earth for us, right?
And, and people like Derek, I want to, I want to go and, and I want to, you know,
do all, do away with this whole, uh, you know, Jewish thing because that's just
not the but heartache and I'm going to, I want to, you know, uh, well, you know,
go and, and, and take part in the, but, but like the, the purpose of this is for
you to say, whoa, look, look at all these prophecies that came true.
And God, look how accurate it's been.
And man, we are right there.
Man, just hold on a little bit longer because if you can just hang on for
another little bit, God's coming.
Right.
And, and Daniel, um, the, the author of Daniel, you know, they're, they're
being persecuted under, under, uh, under Antiochus right now.
Jews are being persecuted hardcore.
Um, and so the author of Daniel is doing this to, to, to give his people hope,
you know, to get them through to, to the next day.
You know, so, so they don't lose their faith, you know, because they're,
they're hoping that they can, they can get, they can get their lands redeemed
and, and restore back, back unto them.
And so Daniel takes, uh, he, he selects these texts purposefully, I believe,
because we, you have, um, you have these, these early court narratives, um,
that talk about, uh, Daniel and what he went through while he was a, a, a prisoner,
uh, uh, uh, essentially him and, and the other, uh, the other young boys who
were taken with him by these, uh, by these, uh, these, uh, Gentile kings.
Um, and, um, let's see where I go from there.
Um, okay.
So, so they, they like, uh, me, Shaq, Shadrach and Abednego, everybody
knows that good story.
I don't know why they insist on using those names, but I'm sorry,
Dr. George, they're stuck with me.
That's who they are now.
I'm sorry.
And they, they really amp up the suffering, not to say that the Jews
weren't persky because they were, but they were mainly driven from their lands
and, and forced to, uh, give libations to these false gods that they, they,
they didn't want to, um, just, just really made life hard, hard for them.
But Daniel uses these tales that makes them even more scared about people
getting burned and furnaces and stuff like that, but about being saved,
being saved by this, uh, this, this, this, this one, like a son of man and, and
being able to, uh, to be, be redeemed, uh, thanks to this help.
And it's slowly being identified as, as God helping his, helping his, uh,
his people again.
So, so, so Daniel builds off of these, these early texts, like Daniel in,
in the lion's den, you know, uh, this is an interesting point, Jim, you're
bringing out.
And I think that's the heart of what I was wanting, right?
Like I knew the, we have to talk about the technical stuff.
I get it.
But that's not where my hand, my hairs and my arms stand up.
The hairs of my arms stand up for me when it's like, aha, I'm seeing behind
the curtain.
I see the magic trick and you're unfolding it and breaking it down.
And you're doing a great job here because if, if what you're saying is true
and this 490 years that the Gabriel angels saying is, um, really trying to fix a
70 year problem that's going back in time.
Christianity is based off of a false prophecy from the basis.
It's eschatological ending.
It's, it's the entire thing is set up using Daniel, which has its problems.
It's already got its problems.
And here you are with the son of man.
It's supposed to be Jesus arguably, arguably you could say that Christianity
established a prophecy that is based on a failed prophecy that is based on a failed
prophecy because of revelation.
Tell us about that.
I mean, I know that's okay.
Well, you can't do that to me.
So now we have to do another show.
That's what I think that's what's so beautiful though about being used beautiful here in
an interesting way.
I think I love it about, about modern, um, you know, theological interpretations of
eschatology and that is that particularly if you, you have to sort of two extremes as
I see it, not that I'm a theologian, but you have on the one hand, your Preterist view,
right?
Your Preterist view is it was all done.
It's all fulfilled, 70 AD done, right?
All before 70, the whole 490.
Yep.
Everything's done.
Then you have, which, you know, I, I get, I get, I, I totally understand the rationale.
Um, but you're, you know, on the other side, you're sort of ultra dispensational view,
which is we're currently in this period of unspecified time.
Millennialist.
Well, it's, it's, it's this, you know, the, what the Hal Lindsey or who wrote Tim LaHaye,
you know, the church is the pause period for Israel.
It's pause on Israel, focus on the church.
That's right.
And it's not the Peter church, right?
That's different.
This is the church, the body of Christ.
Right.
So when you read through, uh, you know, the Pauline epistles,
now what you're looking at is this unspecified period of time.
We don't know how long it's going to go.
And right now the prophetic clock has stopped ticking.
That's the way that that's the verbiage that's used.
It's stopped ticking.
I also want to point out that there is a gap in between the first two parts of this,
of this, of this three part chronology.
So, I mean, uh, there were some interpretations of it, you know,
earlier interpretations of it where all the years ran together.
And ideally that's what they were looking at was 490 years.
You know, it's second.
The message didn't say 490 years, you know, and I might throw in some bonuses.
Yeah.
And this is what, but the reason that I think that this has been,
this has sort of been the interpretation, at least this dispensational view,
has been the interpretation that has, if people would stop prophesying,
like they could just go indefinitely, is that you're in this period of time now
where the prophetic clock is not ticking.
It's based on God's grace.
Right.
So when you read about Paul in Ephesians 3, you talk about the, you know, or whoever,
you know, talk about the dispensation of the grace of God.
It's this period of unspecified time.
The longer it goes, the better it is for us humans.
They tied off Romans 9 through 11 where he says,
the fullness of the Gentiles, we're in the Gentile age.
And once all the fullness of the Gentiles comes in,
then all Israel shall be saved.
And it's like God, God in his mercy and in his grace extends it,
extends it, extends it.
But the moment the rapture happens, and that's, you know, that's the key.
The moment the rapture happens.
Yep.
It could happen right now.
It could happen in a thousand years.
Obviously we don't think it'll go a thousand years.
Right.
But it could.
And that's what makes that interpretive model so flexible, right?
It's only when doofuses like Harold Camping come along
and say, all right, March 21st, 2011 is when it's happening, baby.
You know, then it's like, you know,
dispensations pulling their hair out.
Come on, man.
You know, just let it be.
Let God do it.
But that's when the prophetic clock picks back up.
You have the seven-year tribulation period,
which is Daniel's final week, his 70th week.
It all fits together a little too nicely.
But that's where I think they, it's these later interpretations that allow for now this.
Right.
However long.
And I think going into the New Testament,
Jim, you and me had a great conversation a little bit about preterism
the first time we were on the phone together and just,
I think there's a variety of,
there, I don't think all the 27 New Testament books we have,
the canon we have, are in agreement, eschatologically speaking.
I don't think they all think the same way possibly.
I mean, we can, we can even show with this.
It's not logical at all.
Right.
And there's a lot of problems there.
So I can see why someone's a partial preterist, for example,
when they're reading these as sacred texts,
if you consider what you guys just taught me today and showing us 70 years,
but an angel can change that 490 years.
Oh, but the son of God can tell you different.
You know, all it takes is something to come on the scene and say,
listen, once earthquakes, famines, the army surround Jerusalem,
all this stuff happens, the end is not yet, but we're getting there.
We're getting close.
Get ready.
Well, is it, did it happen?
Or did it almost happen?
Yeah, it wasn't quite presented like that.
Basically, it was presented to Daniel as in, oh, well, you just didn't understand it.
It's in code.
You just, you just didn't get it.
Let me break it down for you.
Okay.
And it had to be that way.
That's the, I think that's the key to it.
Now, from the second century, you know, compiler's point of view,
that's what he's doing, right?
He's saying, he's saying, all right, you know,
how do I, how do I rework this?
That makes it a huge fraud, in my opinion.
I mean, that just tells you, I understand it's pious.
It's, it's, there's, I mean, like, if you and me had to go to war,
wouldn't you say, I'm going to tell these guys we're going to win?
But let me, I think we have a very good parallel in the New Testament, right?
So I just pulled up 2nd Peter 3.
Um, you know, so he says, uh,
Den of verse 3, above all, you must understand that in the last days,
scoffers will come scoffing and following their own evil desires.
They will say, where is the coming?
He promised, right?
Ever since our ancestors died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation.
But they deliberately forget that long ago by God's word,
the heavens came into being and the earth was formed out of water.
And by water, uh, by these waters, also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed
by the same word, the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire being kept, uh,
for the day of judgment on the destruction of the ungodly.
But do not forget this one thing, dear friends,
with the Lord a day is like a thousand years and a thousand years are like a day.
And the Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand slowness.
Instead, he is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish,
but everyone to come to repentance.
And this, I think is the seeds of this, right?
I love you guys.
But I mean, it's beautiful because again, it's, it's, I'm not,
how do we understand this?
And I, again, I really like in this, and then I'm done.
And we should probably wrap it up at some point.
Right.
Yeah.
Um, well, I mean, I, I think, and I mean,
correct me if I'm wrong, but I think the only way to answer that, that question,
like how do we understand this is, is however everybody else did,
but there is no way to understand it.
I think that the, the, the true meaning for the most part is, is lost to us.
Because I mean, Daniel himself, uh, you know, he's using Jeremiah,
but he can't completely reconcile what happened there.
Uh, so I mean, even with, with Jeremiah, even if, even if we take that, he really did get this
vision from this, this messenger from Gabriel, uh, there's still things that he doesn't know
that, that he can't, he, he, he can't tie in.
And even with the first period of, of, of, uh, of seven years and this, uh, period of 62 weeks,
and then the second period of, of, of seven years, um, you know, this, this last part is
the part that trips up Christians because it's not even the start of it.
So they say that the, the end of these first, uh, of these first, uh, this first seven and
then 62 weeks, these first 69 weeks was, um, led up to Jesus's crucifixion.
Uh, some say it's to his birth, some say the crucifixion, most, most say to his,
to his crucifixion.
And this is usually whenever they're going off of, uh, uh, the year, the year 444.
And that's fine.
They can do that.
I understand that there's a gap between the first seven years and the 62 years.
It only stands reason that there might possibly be a gap between the end of the 62 years to
start of the last period of seven years.
But it's a much longer period, uh, mind you, but a bit, a bit.
But, but, but even so, if it were to start, it would be seven years, um, halfway through
which three and a half years through which, um, uh, you have the, the abomination of
desolation, uh, the, uh, the Christians call it the answer.
Christ would go into the temple and declare himself to be God.
Um, uh, all this other stuff, which perfectly fits with, with, uh, with Antiochus, uh,
with, uh, with Antiochus Epiphanes, he, uh, he had, he had just lost a battle.
He was really ticked off, passing through Jerusalem, completely wrecks Jerusalem,
completely wrecks the temple.
Um, they say that he slaughtered a pig, uh, put it on the temple, spread his blood over
the Holy of Holies, uh, just desecrated the, the, the temple and destroyed it to where literally,
uh, that, that's, I mean, that's where it stopped.
That, that's where, uh, that's where the clock for the 490 years approximately comes to end or
not the 400 and, oh yeah, yes, for, for, for them.
Well, that was 497 or 496 and a half years.
And then you had another period of three and a half years, which was supposed to end
with, uh, the death of Antiochus and the, the, and the renewal and the, uh, redemption of the,
the, uh, of God, of God's chosen people and restoring them to their lands.
Um, so, all right.
So, so you, you have this, uh, this period of, of, of seven years.
Now, how do you apply that to Jesus?
When Jesus is to come back in three and a half years, then the Antichrist is going up into
the, the, the temple.
I mean, what, what temple?
Um, well, Jesus is the temple, right?
If we're looking at Christianity, you know, because the, the stones on the temple is Jesus.
So, uh, so the Antichrist is going to come into Jesus.
And then it, I mean, where do we go from there?
Yeah.
So, you know, I think, I think these are silly questions, frankly, Jim,
because we have a video series, right?
And it's called left behind.
So go watch the authoritative document here.
Come on, son.
This is fascinating.
I love being like, like how they, they, they folded their clothes boot camp style, man.
You know, just, if you guys don't mind, I want to put a pin in this here.
I don't want us to stop this conversation.
I want, uh, eventually we can continue this.
I'm sorry we didn't get further.
I just, no, Jim, trust me, brother.
We can do a part two at some point and we can delve deeper into, um, some of the later stuff,
but also tag into other profits.
I know there's more here, guys.
We have it uncovered for our audience.
It's my fault, honestly.
Dr. Josh wanted to do a, uh, a, an outline and I just thought bullet points would,
would be fine, but we got too bogged down in between the bullet points.
I think it worked.
I think it worked out well.
It did.
It worked out great.
Um, Dr. Bowen, did you have something that you were going to read or say prior to us
getting off of this one?
Yeah, I actually just closed it, but I think there's a really great quote by, uh, Golden Gay.
Um, it's sort of, it's a good, maybe it's a good place to end this.
Okay.
Um, so I'll just, I'll read the paragraph.
It is not surprising that Jews and Christians disagree over the precise first century AD
starting point for a retrospective interpretation of Gabriel's message of Daniel 9.
It might be more surprising that interpreters such as Julius, Eusebius,
Hippolytus, Apollonarius and Tertullian, and their equivalents in the 21st century,
who are in broad agreement over an interpretive starting point, disagree over whether, for
example, to work back from Jesus' birth or death and or over whether to work back to
Arteserxes, Darius or Cyrus and or, uh, over how many days to assume there are in a year.
And, and or over where one locates the final seven years.
Their differences of understanding reflect some inevitable arbitrariness over the starting
point, the finishing point, and the method of calculation.
And that, that's where we are.
Bravo.
That is some, uh, some low key shade.
So I have to say.
That's John Golden Gay because it's evangelical, so.
That was actually wonderful because I think with that, I want to let our audience know,
make sure you guys go down in the description.
Please help support these guys.
Join their YouTube channel, subscribe, like all the stuff, comment on all the stuff.
Reorder the new book.
Yes.
Dr. Josh has a great book.
It's a cursory treatment on Old Testament slavery.
You guys, it, it's super cheap.
You can get it on Kindle on Amazon.
It's, uh, I got it and it's my go-to reference now.
I appreciate that.
I've got one that we're, uh, it should be up for pre-order in the next couple of days.
Megan, we're waiting for, I think, the Library of Congress number maybe to come back.
What is, what is it on?
It is called, it's publication on my dissertation, popular level.
It's called learning to pray in a dead language, education and invocation in ancient Sumerian.
Ooh.
So it's all about how, uh, what schools were like in the early second millennium BCE.
You know, what was the curriculum like?
How did students study?
How did they learn to write and read?
What sort of texts did they copy out?
Um, and then it shifts and it talks about how there were certain priests, uh,
that performed these, uh, these formalized prayers.
They recited these prayers that were to keep the gods from getting really angry and destroying the
city and it shows the connection between the schoolhouse and, uh, you know, the, the temple.
Wow.
And how, how that they affected one another and then ultimately how that they, they had
certain traditions that came down into the first millennium that affected the Old Testament,
you know, that affected the Bible in general and that affected Western civilization.
So it should be good.
So you, you, you get into like the, like the, the, the lamentations and like the destruction
of Ur and stuff like that.
Yep.
And so there are two types of laments.
Um, those are more in the, the literary corpus.
We do, we do touch on them, but these are ones.
The goddess, the goddess ones, right?
Yeah.
Uh, a lot of goddess ones.
And it's, it's interesting because not to, you know, bore everybody, but I think this is
actually kind of cool.
Ningal or these, uh, yeah, there's, there, they're written to all kinds of different
deities, but the cool thing about it is, um, they have these, they're all different.
Many of them, they're not all different.
Many of them are just totally different compositions, totally different texts.
Um, but they have these five or six lines, these blocks of text that appear the same
blocks of text appear all over the place.
But in completely different compositions, the rest of the text completely different
and trying to make sense of that.
And I liken it unto if, Jim, if I were to ask you, uh, hey, come to Thanksgiving,
would you mind giving the Thanksgiving prayer?
There are probably two or three different stock phrases or sets of phrases that you
would say, right?
Um, what is the one that's always really funny in prayers?
Uh, we used to always say, bless this food to our bodies.
Um, which is a really weird thing to say.
These, I guess, which we're about to receive from that bounty.
Yes.
Maybe we serve you with the strength we gain from it, right?
These are stock phrases that appear, but the rest of the prayer would be very,
very different.
It would be about Thanksgiving or it'd be about something else.
But those stock phrase, a lot of lords, yep, they would be, so it's,
it's similar to these prayers, but anyway, it shows the relationship between the
schoolhouse and the temple.
And, uh, it should be interesting.
Should be fun.
Yeah, hit the book.
It's a lamentation with like an added layer.
Yeah.
It's, uh, it's, it's cool to see the development and, um, yeah, I'm excited.
I'm excited about it.
These, these blocks of texts that are repeating are, are they, uh, you think
they're oral traditions or?
Yeah.
It's actually, um, my, my advisor wrote, uh, uh, several articles, not a book on this
recently published, um, but it's, it's interesting because you, everybody thinks
of this linear development.
You have oral tradition, oral tradition, oral tradition, and then it gets written
down.
No, it can go the other way.
It's just all written down.
And that's not how it is.
It can go the other way.
It takes, it can get completely lost, turned to, uh, oral tradition and go
right back around into textual tradition, which is what I argue my dissertation
happened to some.
That's cool.
That's cool.
Cause what he, what he shows in the Sumerian texts in these laments is that
actually there's a period where they're running side by side and you can see them
affecting one another because we have, you know, we actually have the physical
copies of tablets, you know, the physical tablets.
So you can see the different copies.
It's a really interesting, uh, it's really interesting phenomenon.
So it should be up for pre-order, I would think this week on Amazon.
And then, uh, I think it goes, I think it goes live November 1st.
So down in the description, guys, the link will be there.
Make sure you get it.
Help him out.
Digital Hammurabi YouTube subscribe and he educates you guys with all sorts of
stuff, Lang language and these type of topics.
And he interviews other scholars as well.
And then we have Jim majors as well, YouTube channel.
He's debated quite a few people online.
And, uh, this has been a privilege, guys.
Jim, would you like to close this out with something to say?
Man, I just, uh, loved hanging out with both of you guys.
Uh, sorry, we didn't get farther.
But, um, uh, yeah, I mean, we definitely need to pick this back up because this isn't,
this isn't all, it's not even close.
But, uh, I, I do encourage you that if you're a, a believer, if you have a, a set,
uh, uh, a set idea of what these 77s are, is a set interpretation.
I really encourage you to, uh, to, to test it, you know, not necessarily find another one,
but just apply it and, and try to try to reconcile those, those last seven years and
like what, what you think would happen there and how do you reconcile that with what we
know is supposed to happen with the son of man returning.
And just to test it, just go pick up a book like this.
This is not a atheist God hater.
You just pick up a book like this, uh, pick up John Collins book, you know,
and just read through and see the problems, right?
And the different ways that people do it.
And for, for somebody who actually cares and will apply the time, you know, you don't have
to go and like take all these courses and everything.
You can just take this right here, you can take this right here and cut it in front of
your chest and come to a pretty dang good understanding.
Put it in front of your chest.
Oh, we can't see it.
It's a screen, screened out.
That's your whole screen.
There you go.
What is that?
The Bible?
Awesome.
Yeah.
Green screen took over.
Ladies and gentlemen, you already know what we're about.
We're going to uncover things.
We're going to discuss controversial topics.
We're not going to shy away from these discussions.
And of course, I appreciate both of these guys.
You will see more of them on this show.
Like I said, visit the description.
You guys can help us out, help them out in every way possible.
And we really appreciate you tuning in.
Thank you guys for joining me for sure.
Thank you.
And with that, do not forget ever, don't ever, ever forget we are myth vision.
