Welcome, everybody, to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and today is
my birthday. I wanted to hang out with you for a little bit, to kind of share with you
a little bit of my past, my story, and maybe inspire you with some things that inspired
me along my little journey around the sun here. And it's been tough. Life has not always
been easy. Before we do, let me just set the mood. I've been checking this jam out on YouTube.
In the air tonight, Phil Collins acoustic cover, Blacktop Mojo, if you haven't, just to play
a part of it because I don't want him to hit me or strike me. But this guy hits some vocal
in this old bean factory. And let's fill the mood for a second.
He kills that. You can't deny. He didn't kill that song right there. That was amazing.
I really appreciate everybody for tuning in. And I want to get a little bit serious for a
moment to tell you something about my past. If you did not know this about me, it's worth
bringing it up. I wear my heart on my sleeve. And there are so many people in the world who
suffer. I mean, we're all going to die at some point. And there are a lot of people who suffer.
And one of those people was me. I suffered with addiction. I was addicted to opiates. Before
that, it was other substances. And I almost died almost eight years ago, October the 25th.
I almost died from heroin, injecting heroin. I was trying to escape reality. It started with
painkillers. I couldn't find the certain pills that I wanted. Eventually I tried stronger pills.
And then the pills when I couldn't find them or couldn't afford them is when I went in and
tried sniffing a little bit of heroin to try and get out of the sickness. And I was dying. I was
injecting heroin. I was getting abscesses. I was at the end of the road in my mind and I was
ready to tap out. And I finally surrendered a little to try and get my way almost eight years
ago. And my mother, my wife, my children, my dad, I mean, I was kicked out. I was going from
couch to couch. I was homeless for at least a few weeks. I was stealing. I was just, I didn't
want to live. I really didn't want to live, but I was too afraid to die. That's where I was at.
So I go to this lady's house named Elise. And she opened her doors to me. She was part of recovery.
Her and her husband. And I kicked and screamed while withdrawing off heroin at their house. And
my mom came over. It's kind of a funny, weird story. I may be conflating things in my memory
because it was such a traumatic time of my life. But they pretty much said, you need to get the
giving tree to my mom. This book called The Giving Tree by Shel Silverstein to my dad or
something like that. I read this book and it's a kid's book. But the philosophy in it has endured
with me till today. And I would, it would be my honor to share that philosophy with you, if
that's okay with you, by reading from the book. It's not long, but this right here really changed
my perception. I always was a person who took, I took and took and took, never really gave in my
life. I mean, I was always needing something and people gave, people gave to me. Well, The Giving
Tree by Shel Silverstein for Nikki, The Giving Tree. Once there was a tree and she loved a little
boy. And every day the boy would come. And of course your kid's reading this will get into it. And
he would gather her leaves and make them into crowns and play king of the forest. He would climb
her trunk, up her trunk and swing from her branches. You can see the kid swinging from the
branches and eat apples. And they would play hide and go seek. And when he was tired, he would
sleep in her shade. And the boy loved the tree very much. And you can see on the tree a little
carve out me and the tree. And the tree was happy. You can see the boy's growing up now. But time
went by. You see, there's more than one person under the tree. Me and the tree. And then there's
another heart. And the boy grew older. And the tree was often alone. Then one day the boy came to
the tree and the tree said, come boy, come and climb up my trunk and swing from my branches and
eat apples and play in my shade and be happy. I am too big to climb and play, said the boy. I want
to buy things and have fun. I want some money. Can you give me some money? Sorry, I'm emotional
because it's like, this is real to me. And I'm shocked I've made it this long.
I'm sorry, said the tree, but I have no money. I have only leaves and apples. Take my apples, boy,
and sell them in the city. Then you will have money and you will be happy.
Just to show you the images, the boy's getting bigger. The tree, pulling the apples out of the
tree. You think he's going to eat them? So the boy climbed the tree and gathered apples and carried
them away to the city. And the tree was happy. But the boy stayed away for a long time. And the tree
was sad. Then one day the boy came back and the tree shook with joy. And she said, come boy, climb
up my trunk and swing from my branches and be happy. I'm too busy to climb trees, said the boy.
I want a house to keep warm, he said. I want a wife and I want children and so I need a house.
Can you give me a house? I have no house, said the tree. The forest is my home, but you may cut
off my branches and build a house. Then you will be happy. You can see he's aged. So the boy cut
off her branches and carried them away to build a house. The tree was happy.
But the boy stayed away for a long time. And when he came back, the tree was so happy,
she could hardly speak. Come boy, she whispered, come and play. I'm too old and sad to play,
said the boy. I want a boat that will take me far away from here. Can you give me a boat?
Cut down my trunk and make a boat, said the tree. Then you could sell away and be happy. See how he's
old now. So the boy cut down her trunk and made a boat and sell it away. And the tree was happy.
But not really. And after a long time, the boy came back again. I'm sorry, boy, said the tree,
but I have nothing left to give you. My apples are all gone. My teeth are too weak to eat apples,
said the boy. My branches are gone, said the tree. You cannot swing on them. I am too old
to swing on branches, said the boy. My trunk is gone, said the tree. You cannot climb. I'm too tired
to climb, said the boy. I am sorry, said the tree. I wish I could give you something, but I have
nothing left. I'm just an old stump. I'm sorry. I do not need very much now, said the boy. Just a
quiet place to sit and rest. I'm very tired. Well, said the tree, straightening herself up as much as
she could. Well, an old stump is good for sitting and resting. Come boy, sit down, sit down and rest.
And the boy did. And the tree was happy. The end. Now, this story right here, it hit me so hard,
because I always took my whole life. I was that boy who needed things and always just took to get
his stuff and to take, to get his way and didn't realize that I felt happiest when I was giving
and when I helped those around me. And that's what kept me clean off drugs. And that's what makes me
happy today when I see someone say, MythVision has helped them find freedom and happiness or
someone who made it off of drugs and was able to be a good father, parent, sister, brother,
daughter, son, doesn't matter for their family. That really means so much to me. And that's kept me
happy. And so I guess my advice at 35 years of age, which I have so much learning to do, is
try to give. Try to give back. Try to be a giver and not always a taker. And there's a happiness
that comes with that. And I know that from experience. And this is kind of why I wanted to
do the stream. Of course, we're going to be on a happy note here in a minute, but these tears are
deep emotional tears that I'm experiencing because this saved my life. This philosophy is what made
me into the person I think I am today versus the person I was when I was in active addiction,
selfish, always trying to take and take. I mean, I literally have a felony charge from when I was
an addict for stealing. And that's because I needed to keep the habit going and to keep the high and
was so depressed in my life. And today I'm happy. Today is day 11 on going back to the gym.
Me and my wife have been busting our humps, walking over two miles a day and exercising to try and
take care of our health and to be good parents, to be good lovers, to each other, to be good parents,
to our children, and just to take good care of ourselves. And I just thought about this yesterday
as my birthday was approaching. If I would have listened to my mom, my dad, my grandparents, or
those wise people in my life, it's hard. Life's weird because you learn backwards. At the end
of your days is when you realize what you should have known at the beginning and what you should
have done and practiced early on. And I'm 35. I feel like I've lived a full life. I mean,
I've come close to death. I've gone through all the traumas. I've gone through so many crazy things
in my life and I'm sure there's many more to come. But that keeps me grounded in trying to be a student.
This is another reason why you don't see me debate. I'll have conversations online.
I don't need my ego popping up in a debate that I'm right, you're wrong, and it's a you know what
measuring contest. I prefer to actually conversate and learn because I learned from several people who
I think are wrong on certain subjects, but they teach me in other ways like Jonathan Beasley,
and he's a Christian apologist, Christian buddy of mine on Facebook. That guy's hitting the gym
every day and he's putting photos up showing his exercises and showing how his mental health is
being you know helped by and things like that. Like I learned from that guy, even if I don't
agree with his ontology of beliefs and stuff. So being a student is a philosophy like giving,
but it's also being teachable. Those are my two lessons. Sorry if this is a preaching session,
but I really wanted to you know give someone out there some hope and let them know like life gets
better. It can be better. It can do so much more than what you know you might be doing if it's not
working for you the way that you're living your life now. All right. Anyway, wow. I tried to tap
in and I tapped in all right because I put a lot of people through a lot of crap from my years and
most of all myself, you know, but today I'm very thankful to all of you. This is also a thank you
stream because you all made this possible. I've always loved learning about the Bible. I've loved
learning about the ancient stories, our beliefs where we come from, etc. Why do how do we come to
be? You know, what are the beliefs out there in origin mythologies, etc. And that's developed.
MythVision did not start as a business. It didn't start as what it is. It was a hobby
where I was working a construction job trying to take care of my family making somewhat decent
money over time. I made more as I got raises and it worked very hard. I was doing, you know,
two week rotations away from my kids and wife and working overtime running heavy equipment and
eventually supervising entire fields of solar renewable energy where we were installing solar
panels, but our crew installed the iBeams. And while I was gone, I'd listen to these podcasts,
listen to people and I realized there was a lack of this kind of material on YouTube that I wanted
to see more of. So I was like once in a while, email a person and do a little stream when I could
from the horrible connection, internet connection at a hotel. And then I'd finally see my wife,
if she didn't come and travel to visit me at a hotel, I'd see her after two weeks and then boom,
back on the road, back on the road, back on the road, construction, working with my hands.
And plenty of people along the way would go, you don't sound like a construction worker,
as if there's like some model that a construction worker should sound like. But they're like,
you should use your head and find a way to make it using your head.
Never did I think for once it was going to be myth vision. I thought, okay, well, my recovery stuff,
me talking and helping drug addicts, that's obviously my calling, so to speak. So maybe
I'll help drug addicts get clean and I still do that. But I got hired from a rehab in California
at one point trying to help people to go there and was able to work from home, which allowed me to
do more podcast here. And then I realized, I wonder if I put all my eggs and put all my heart
into this and really work my butt off and do everything I possibly can to make this possible
for my family, my wife, my kids and, and bring something that isn't out there. Let's see what
I can do. And with my work ethic that I had from there, I applied it to myth vision and let me tell
you, I'm working my butt off and continuing to do so and it worked. And this is a thank you to you
for giving me that chance, for liking every video that you like, for every comment that you drop,
every person who's ever shared my content. I'm thankful to you. I'm indebted to you. So
tears of joy. I'm sorry I'm getting emotional today, but I'm just so,
so overwhelmed with excitement and thrill that I've made it this far.
And I'm so thankful. So that's my, oh, damn, I don't get emotional like this, but
I'm also taking good care of myself now. I'm being the father that I should be, the husband that I
should be, and taking good care of my own body like I'm supposed to. There's so many things that
I'm just so happy and emotional about and very grateful to you because you've been the tree,
so to speak. Every person who participates just makes this possible. So it's a dream come true.
Kind of like people overwhelmingly cry when they're at American Idol or they're
singing and the crowd's clapping. I feel like that's how thankful I am that people actually
appreciate what I'm doing and it's shocking. So I'm having an epiphany, so to speak,
or Eureka moment right now. Thank you. All right. I'm going to read some of these comments up here.
Ali says, Happy birthday. We're the same age. Thank you, Ali. I really appreciate you. James,
you are only 35. You've accomplished so much. So proud of you, Derek. You'll never walk alone
with your wife and your family by your side. Thank you so much, James. Happy birthday to you.
I am a Christian, yet I still enjoy some of your contents. Appreciate that. That means a lot to
me and I hope to try and balance in the way that I approach. We're all at a certain phase in our
life and how we're trying to assess the information, how we're trying to present it. I know that I have
an anti-apologetic angle a lot and that might tone down over time as we start just focusing on
scholarship more. But I also feel like I'm doing a big service on trying to show people like, hey,
take the dogmatism somewhere else. Thank you so much, Unique.
Momzie, a very happy birthday to you. Be proud of all you've accomplished and overcome in your
life. I know I'd gladly adopt you any day. Thank you so much for that. Blake, 35 and still rocking
the backwards cap in the thumbnail. Yeah. Sometimes I'll rock my hat backwards. I used to be hardcore,
heavy metal, skateboarder and then hip hop. I mean, I've done all the phases there.
Pragmatic, good to see you here, Pragmatic. Have a wonderful birthday and here's to many, many more.
Thank you. Diana, happy birthday and Diana drops the super sticker. Thank you, Diana.
Thank you for bearing with my emotional coming from my heart. Thank you so much for the super
sticker. Skeptics and scoundrels, happy birthday to you. Thank you so much, my friend. Chronicles
of Lucifer, happy birthday to you. I will be eternally grateful for you sharing your
deconstruction journey. Thank you so much. TKO, happy birthday. Elijah, congrats, Derek.
Keep being productive, man. I will. Christo, wanted to tell you happy birthday, young man.
May you live to have many, many more of them. Thank you. Jethus is happy birthday. Imnag in
the house. Imnag, good to see you here. Thank you for the super sticker. You're always being
very supportive and I really appreciate the support, always making this possible. Spank,
flaps. Historical religious studies are important to understand. What made the ancients tick?
Obviously, most of them were whack jobs. I don't know. I mean, would we be the same if we were
back then? I don't know. I don't know if I'd be one of those super critical smart or if I'd be,
you know, a person who's writing some of this literature and or believing in some of this.
Todd, happy birthday. Thank you so much, Todd. Royal, happy birthday. Ricky Johnson,
thanks for being a member, man. Happy birthday, Derek. Tracy, happy birthday, Derek. I just
love your myth vision. Keep them coming. I am. I just dropped, by the way, I just dropped some
more stuff on the Patreon. I know, look, I had all these comments that were from all the videos
I've been doing with Dr. Richard C. Miller and we were getting tons of comments on the first few
videos. And then eventually I told Rick Miller, we're like, I think I'm kicking a dead dog now.
Everybody's like, we get it. Rick's got some crazy videos coming out with some really heavy
material. Just wait till that hits the public scene. There's going to be a lot of videos
responding to this. If they don't respond, they're going to ignore it because it's Rick is hitting
some heavy material. Tracy, it's coming. Thank you. John Winick, happy birthday, dude. Keep
to good work. Thank you, John. Annemarie, forgive me if I butchered that. Happy birthday, Derek.
May you have a wonderful day. Thanks for all you're doing for us. Thank you. Rockchester,
I will be traveling this afternoon. Happy birthday, Derek. Keep up the good work, my friend.
Thank you. Thank you. And I had to drop that. I love you all. Arimi, no wonder you look for
the origins of everything. You're a Gemini like me. Be well. Here we are with the Zodiac, right?
Gavin, happy birthday. Jerwalk, happy birthday. I'm working. So if I miss a stream, happy birthday.
Thank you, DJ Frank. Gabriela, happy birthday, Derek. Thank you. Jim, happy birthday, my man.
I wondered if you were born close to me as you have the gift of Gab. This is true. My birthday in a
couple of days, honor to share in and celebrate with you, Derek. Go, Jim and I. Thank you so much
for that. Happy birthday, Derek. Thanks for your channel. It's the best channel for the scholarship
on Christianity. Thank you so much, meh-zad. Forgive me if I butcher that. Sarah, happy birthday.
Moonshoes, hey, whoo-whoo. For the anticoat, whoo-whoo. For the greater vision, whoo-whoo.
For the open inquiry, whoo-whoo. For the unbinding of the experts, whoo-whoo. Happy existing to all.
Thank you. Let something shine. Nice name. Happy birthday. I hope you enjoy your special day at
bed. Anthony Guthrie in the house, my buddy. You've been very supportive over the years,
and I really appreciate your help in making myth vision happen. I really appreciate that.
Love, Derek's work, genuine pursuit of truth. Little sunshine, happy birthday.
Topic discussed, Gary Stone. We just dropped that video yesterday with Gary Stone. If you watched it
about doctrines and covenants section 132, pretty much Joseph Smith using God and the prophets and
what not to really push polygamy on his wife, Emma, and the Mormons at the time. But thank you,
Gary, for shouting me out. Creck and Ford. Anyone who knows about mythology or is interested in it,
you got to subscribe to these channels, by the way. But Creck and Ford just popping in to say,
hey, thank you so much, man. Happy birthday, Derek. You're the hardest working guy on YouTube.
You're an inspiration and your support for other channels is legendary. I wish you all the best
for today. John, thank you so much for that. Go subscribe to his channel. He's got the check mark
and blew past my channel. He had less than me, and his work just caught on because his work is that
good. He covers so much material. I hope you will go subscribe. Stinging metal, happy B-day.
Happy birthday, Derek. I'm just going to try and get through these here. Best wishes
from a bloody Polish atheist. Thank you so much for that. Gary, you rock, sir. Pragmatic,
hit the button. Hit the like button. Thank you. Lambert of God, Gary says. Hi. Thank you so much.
T. Bishop. Derek is a cancer. It all makes sense now. Oh, no, I'm Gemini. Is cancer Gemini?
Anyway, hello, Crystal. Moon shoes. Baron, thank you so much. Phillip A. Demick. Happy
birthday. Every day above ground is a blessing. You are doing God's work. I've heard that from
several people who believe in God, by the way, so I appreciate those compliments, my friends.
Deb, happy birthday on the Facebook side. Love seeing you here, Deb. Thank you for that.
Happy birthday, Derek. No talk. Gary, you do inspire. Thank you so much. Tux TV, hi all.
Moon shoes. Random happy birthday. Baron, being a member and a super chat there. Thank you so
much for the happy birthday. Appreciate the support as well. Happy birthday, Derek. I love your work.
Your name's almost like my dad's. It's not Lambert, but I wonder if the last name
you know, somehow has a tie-in to Lambert. La Burt, something like that. Ricky Johnson,
thank you. Happy birthday from Vancouver, Washington. Mark Andrew, thank you so much.
You're not too far from me. Gabriella, again, happy birthday. It's my 31st birthday. 35th,
31st, 31st, 35th birthday tomorrow. Happy birthday to you, Rad Rat. Thank you for coming here and
complimenting me for mine. Happy birthday, Brother Green Gellicid. I butcher your name,
forgive me. George Flowers with the super chat in the house. Happy birthday, myth, vision, profit.
George, thank you so much. I do appreciate that support, man, and it means a lot. Thank you.
Stoic, dissension. I am a cancer, too. Happy B-day, Derek. See, I don't even know Zodiac stuff
enough to be aware of my own, what I'm supposed to be, but I'm glad I have you all to tell me.
Joy Kelly, happy birthday, Derek. Dunya, happy birthday, and thank you for the work you do.
Thank you for that compliment. Yeah, nah. Happy born day, brother. Anthony Guthrie,
showing some love again. Thanks, Derek, for all you do. I know there's a ton of work and
sacrifice that goes into it all. You're changing minds, brother. Thank you for that. There is.
There's a lot of work, a lot of sacrifice, but I'm also trying to balance more because for a while
there, I let myth vision kind of consume me. Good thing I didn't collapse, but I'm working
certain schedules. So when the kids get out of school, daddy's taken off and going and spending
time with his boys and his wife. And so I'm doing a little bit better and balancing. The
reason I had to put in all the hard work that I did is I needed the income, the hard work and the
more I put in, I was able to make more income to provide for them. And I'm trying to balance that
out. So obviously, that support, for example, makes that possible, Anthony. And I appreciate you,
man. Thank you. Cute Chonkeys, happy birthday, Derek. Again, opiates and speed here, my friend,
clean now for six years. Congratulations, brother or sister. I don't know your agenda there,
but thank you so much for letting me know that because I'm sure many of you in the audience
have struggled with addictions and things and have overcome them. Some of you may be struggling with
them now. And the only difference is one person is stuck on it and one isn't. And we're no different
at the end of the day. We're all human bleeding red. And I do want to break that wall down too.
The way that people are perceived, even when I've used the analogies on comparing what I think
very fundamentalist Christians are addicted to their religion, like I was addicted to my religion
and to drugs, they get upset as if, oh, I'm not a drug addict, as if here is this derogatory
category for these bad human beings. No, people are sick, people struggle. And I want to break down
that whole stigma, that perception that we have on people who struggle as much as I can.
These are, they're somebody's son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister. There's somebody's
loved one. And I know for a fact that we weren't bad people. We may have done some bad things, but
I'm telling you, these people are sick and they need help. And they're probably
some of the greatest people you'll ever know if you can help them to get out of that hole.
They got to help themselves too. It's very hard. It's not easy. Thank you so much,
Green. Sorry for the preaching. Happy birthday, Derek. Have a great day. Mark Twain. I'm glad
you, you know, I'm glad you were, you're still alive and around, Mark. They said you died a while
back, but I'm glad you're here to wish me a happy birthday. Thank you, Mark Twain. Morning, folks.
Jose. Jim Strep, straight seven? I don't know. There's a Vancouver in Washington too. I'm
Canadian living in Washington state. Nice to meet you, Mark.
Happy birthday, Leggy Beans. Thank you so much for that. You've really helped me escape
Christianity. Thank you for the work you do. You're an amazing human being. Well, thank you so much.
I'm glad that that's helped you. And I tell people all the time to reverse this. If your life
in living in nihilism or you have some detrimental philosophy that isn't working for you, do something
different. What I'm saying is if you, being an atheist or an agnostic or whatever, isn't doing
it for you, isn't working for you, find what does, whatever that does that doesn't harm you,
that isn't harming others, find it. I'm just telling you where I go, right? But I do not want
anyone to find something that harms them or is going to harm others with their philosophy. So
thank you, Leggy, for that compliment. Hey, my birthday was yesterday. I'm almost exactly five
years older than you. Long journeys. Thank you for that. And happy birthday, belated birthday.
Spartan theology. Happy birthday, Derek. You don't look a day over 40. Thanks, man. Appreciate that.
But I wonder how you knew I wasn't 40. The thumbnail has no evidence on that for that.
Daniel, thank you for that. Happy birthday, Brent Hayes. So let me try and get down here.
Pop Gabriel. Hey, Derek, happy birthday. Thank you so much. Hey, happy birthday, Dario.
Moonshoes. Happy birthday, Kirsten. Mark Andrew DeMarist. Forgive me if I'm scratching your last
name the wrong way. Happy birthday from Vancouver, Washington. Shells Genius. Thank you. Thank you
for that. Really appreciate the support. The super chat goes a long ways. Stefan Kain Derek was saved
by the power of atheism, praised the unfilling universe that graciously allows us to find our
own purpose, kindness, and deliverance with the power of empathy. I do think it boils down to
human empathy, human experience and such. But yeah, Stefan, thank you so much for that. Look at the
trees. Moonshoes. That book, I think I'm catching up to my crying point earlier in this stream. So
if you weren't here, I was in tears. The giving tree is the book and it brings me back to moments
that mean so much to me on how I got to where I am today. And it was stop being the little boy,
start being the tree. That's the whole philosophy for me. And if you haven't read the book,
you got to read the book. It's very simple, but it's deep. And it's a philosophy I live by.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Happiest birthdays. Thank you, Eric May on the Facebook side. James Apperson, man. Thank you
for being here in the chat, supporting, sharing, commenting, streaming about my streams, being
a member of MythVisions YouTube channel. James, I love you, man. Thank you so much for being here.
But you did make it. This is true beach. Thank you so much. Much love. Thank you, Ricky. Happy
birthday, Sombra says. Stoic Descention. Damn, Derek. Blast from childhood. If you grew up in
the 90s, this was playing on repeat at daycare and schools. I'm tearing up with you. Wow. Yeah.
I read that as a kid, but it didn't hit me on the level that it did till I was an adult dying.
And that book was heavy. If you want someone to read for you, I'm here. James, thanks, man.
You do have a reading voice. You have an amazing reading voice. So maybe I'll get you next time
to do it. I'm just, look, as soon as I'm done trying to catch up with you all, I'm going to be
balancing with my wonderful wife, Queen MythVision, and will probably go get me a pair of outfit to
wear something for my birthday just to be able to wear. And I want to spend time with the kids.
I might surprise them and play hooky, sneak them out of school before school's out
to just go spend some time with them for my birthday. Happy birthday. I'm just going to
read the last part. Dreams. Thank you. Fenton. George, we love you, Derek. Thank you, George.
Appreciate that. Stokes is love you, man. Love you, too. We are thankful. Yes, we are. Visionary
556, happy birthday, and thanks for everything. God only knows how many lives yours and Kurt's
videos have saved. That means a lot, and I know there's plenty, and that is helpful to know that
my videos, and I'm not just talking about MythVision, my Derek Lambert YouTube channel where I kind of
document my recovery process off drugs and alcohol, how many lives were saved through that,
and I get a lot of people who've messaged me for that. Visionary, so thank you. Happy birthday,
Jim Forman. Thank you for the gift of a rabbi singer. You know what? I met him when I was in
Israel. He's a hoot. We had a blast, went down to the Welling Wall, went and ate. We hung out.
He's a fun guy. Ketzer podcast. Happy birthday. This is part of me crying at the time, I'm sure,
so thank you for that compliment. Happy birthday. Thank you, Victor. Tac, happy birthday. Ket,
happy birthday. Happy day of birth. We love you, Derek. Daddy, blast for me. Awoken one. Happy
birthday, Derek. Thank you so much. You're Jim and I. That's why you are good at podcasting
and informing us. Thank you so much, Leonid. Thank you so much. You can't know your birthday
because you don't have a fundamentally non-contingent, ultimate grounds for knowledge, Derek.
How long? Thanks for that comment. Bruce Cook, happy birthday. Trade ages with me,
and you get to turn 40 later this year. Thanks, Bruce. Invite Gnostic teacher Marty Leeds.
Make an interview. Happy birthday, Derek. Thanks for your courage to gift us with your own journey
in spite of the opposition. LOL, big hugs. You help others find sanity in the midst of religious
insanity. Thank you. Dan says, happy birthday, Derek. Thank you so much, Dan. Jonathan Sheffield.
You tried to call me. I couldn't pick up, man. I was streaming. I was already in the stream,
and I was getting ready in my mind just to kind of tell people how I feel. Happy birthday to my
good friend and brother from another mother, Derek. Everybody in the chat, Jonathan Sheffield,
this is his YouTube channel, you could subscribe to. He's the man, the Christian brother of mine
who created my intros, the cartoon intros that I have. He made them, and I love this guy.
He is an amazing human being. We might disagree on Jesus. We might disagree on the Bible. Yes,
we do. Okay, but I love this guy, and he's been there for me emotionally. He's been supportive.
He's been financially supportive in many ways. He's helped me a vision. I've helped him to get
some scholars debating with him and stuff. We help each other out, and so I'm thankful for you,
Jonathan, and I appreciate you tuning in today and being part of my journey. Enjoy your Legends of
Zelda game, as I know that you've been lost in that for the past few weeks, and we'll talk soon,
my friend. Thank you. G1st, amen. Sorry, I'm late. Happy birthday. Josiah, thank you for that.
Appreciate that, my friend. Yeah, overcoming addiction is very challenging thing, but wonderful
when you accomplish it. I was a heroin addict for 15 years, and this July will be my seventh year
clean. Bruce, major accomplishment. It's the closest thing to a miracle I can describe,
is getting off of drugs and completely changing one's life. That's the closest thing I can personally
describe as a miracle, from my own world, my own perception, my own experience. It's just,
it's amazing. It's not one, but it's the closest thing, I would say. Lily, happy birthday. Pragmatic,
hit the button, folks. Make sure you like the stream. Thank you, Pragmatic. Captive Desk.
Happy birthday, Derek. Amy, happy birthday. Thank you so much. Jim and I as learner,
getting and giving information. Thank you so much for that. Is it Georgios? Happy birthday, Derek.
I wish health and prosperity for you and your family. Thank you for sharing this with us. A
simple story, but with a deep meaning. 100%. Ladies on Lions. Hi, Derek. Happy birthday.
Thank you so much for that. Mark the rationale. Happy birthday, Derek. Thank you. Felix Magnus.
Just realized, happy B-day. Love the show. Learned a ton. Keep it up. Great turquoise white horns.
Well, thank you, Felix. Derek rocks the socks off. Thank you, Finn.
Happy birthday, brother. Thank you for that grandess. Mark Twin again. You're one of the greatest
successes in history of YouTube. You have earned this by your own spectacular efforts.
I support in every way possible. I'm proud to be a Patreon. Thank you, Mark. That means a ton.
It really helps if you don't realize this. If you know a YouTuber or someone out there that
does content, they're trying, they're trying, complimenting them in words, even if you're
not able to help in other ways, complimenting them, liking the stuff, sharing positivity.
It does so much. If it weren't for the people when I did my recovery YouTube channel that were in my
chat, while some people would tell me they wish I was dead, you should die, you junkie,
you worthless human being, you, your piece of crap for society, all of those kind of things
were being commented. They wished I died and all of that. At first, I was so sensitive,
not aware of what was going on on YouTube. There were so many positive messages,
that positivity destroyed all negativity. It literally makes you be able to go that next
moment. You guys give the purpose to some of these content creators to keep going.
So keep that in mind when you're commenting to people that you are, you know, wanting to see
more or try to inspire, even if it's just to compliment them. They may not have the greatest
content, but you are trying to create a community you want to create love and you want to show
as a human that you're a good human. You do that, you have no clue, the kind of
things it does for that creator to see that kind of positivity. Reassurance gives confidence,
gives, helps that person, trust me. Thank you for that.
Stefan, just use converse. There's no reason to use archaic and pretentious words, conversate.
I don't know where I messed up and used a different word. Baron with the with the myth vision
membership. It doesn't show up on StreamYard like it does on YouTube, but thank you for being here
and being a member. You're my favorite preacher, Beach Comer. Well, thank you. Can I get an amen?
Hallelujah. David Rutland, happy birthday, Derek. I just turned 66 three days ago,
and I can say life just gets better the older you get. Jim and I's Rock. David, thank you for
giving me something to look forward to, my friend. I really appreciate it. And the wisdom coming from
people who are ahead of me on this game we call life. Thank you. Karen, you're living life and
moving forward. I've got 40 years on you and still feel like I'm moving forward and finally have more
direction than ever. You go. It gets better and better. Karen, thank you. That means the world.
I hope others are like, take this in for yourself. Remember, we are myth vision, that corny, cheesy
little phrase that I have for this podcast. It sounded cool. It was something that came up with,
but the depth of that we there, that's us. It's not just me. It's us. And I want you to live this
with me. That's the whole point. Live vicariously through my learning and the things that I'm doing.
I hope you're learning as well. And I'm doing this with you. Thank you, Karen.
Ichipod, happy birthday, bro. Wish we had a God to thank for your contributions. So I'll
thank you for being you. Man, Brady Goodwin. For those who don't know, he was a big, big hip hop
Christian artist back in the day. I hope you will subscribe to Ichipod. I've got his deconversion
story. What a great human being he is. And we have a lot in common, but I want to thank you for
that support, the super chat and the compliment. And I hope that you get more and more success with
your YouTube channel and more and more compliments that help you keep pushing forward to break free
of dogma and have people find what works for them that makes sense for them. Man, thank you, Brady,
for being who you are, man, and joining in today and showing me some love. So thank you, brother.
Rudolph, happy birthday. Love your shows. Thank you.
DJ said, when I first started watching MythVision, Derek was with another guy. I forget his name,
Luther G. Williams. Luther decided to just kind of not have anything to do with it anymore, and he's
focused on his own studies and wanting to do his own thing. And that's fine. And I hope the best for
him. I just, I even tried to get him to come on over the years. And he wasn't really interested
in doing it. So I can't knock him. Maybe I went a little too far in a different direction than what
he was interested in. So the governor, thank you for the super chat. 35 years equals half
the three score years and 1070 of the Bible. As my Jehovah's Witness mother said to me when I was
35, all downhill from here, happy birthday, learning so much from you and your guests. Wow.
All downhill from here. Thank you so much, the governor. I really appreciate the support
and your compliment. And I hope to continue to be wiser as time goes by. That used to be my prayer.
Make me like King Solomon minus the insanity he deals with later in his years.
Just give me the wisdom. So thank you. Thank you. Yes, Luther was his name.
Tony says, happy birthday, Derek. Keep up the great work. Thank you so much, Tony.
Appreciate that. I really do. Happy birthday, tool time. Thank you. Thank you so much. Happy
New Year. I don't know. Anyway, I'll just take it as a birthday. Good sermon. Thank you so much.
James, we love you, Derek. We love you, James. Testify. Happy birthday, Brosev. If you don't
know about testify, you should. We've been engaging back and forth with Dennis McDonald's,
Mimesis criticism, and Eric Manning. He's actually a wonderful human being. You may disagree with
him on his beliefs. I disagree with him on his beliefs. The guy's actually a standup guy. And
I've talked to him several times. I know he's a great person. And I hope he thinks the same of
me. But testify, thank you so much for tuning in today and saying happy birthday. Deb again,
we are glad you made it. I am too. I am too. Gary Amindam, Derek, you've come a long way.
Can I ask about when you got mixed up in drugs? Was it the realization of becoming
a non-Christian that made you turn to becoming an addict? No, Gary. Good question. I became an
addict very early on. My father was an alcoholic. And I started dabbling. You'd say late high school,
started smoking a lot, partying, drinking, tried ecstasy, tried a few other things, but eventually
tried painkillers. And I was just now graduated out of high school. And I was a Christian all these
years, but it was later in life that it got worse. And I actually became a non-believer
through getting off of drugs. So it was as I deconstructed and got clean that I became a
non-believer. But good question. Thank you for asking. William Hutton, happy birthday. Thank
you so much, William. Susan, I'm proud of you, Derek. Happy birthday. Thank you, Susan. Appreciate
that, sister. Ryan, happy birthday, man. Hope your day is awesome. Thank you, Ryan.
Exit Music, happy birthday, Derek. And you crazy youngster. I guess I am young to some.
I feel like I'm getting older. But now that I've exercised for 11 days, I'm feeling like maybe I
can get young again. I don't know. Get back in shape. Genie, Gianni. I am new to this channel,
but happy birthday, Derek. Thank you for the compliment. Appreciate that.
Go at the bro. Okay. Love your channel, bro. Thank you. I'm really proud of you, Derek.
Thank you again, Stoic. I really appreciate that. I'm going to try and catch up here.
Tania, beautiful story. You're a beautiful soul. So thankful you made it out of that dark time.
Your story and hard work is helping so many people now. Thank you. Thank you for the compliment.
I'm an OG YouTube atheist who has been in the space for over 15 years, and I can say you are
really adding something of value to YouTube. Tool time? Subscribe to Tool Time, first of all,
just for that awesome compliment. And thank you for tuning in today and giving
a really, really good compliment that something's being added of value
to what we're doing here on YouTube. And I thank you for that. Parenting is the most important
thing we can do. Tony, appreciate the compliment, my friend. And I do think it's extremely valuable.
Happy birthday, Derek Clyde says. It's my 34th birthday today. Happy birthday, Clyde. Love your
channel, bro. Been on for a couple years. Thank you. I hope it gets better over time,
like a nice wine. I don't drink anymore, but great message, brother, the giving tree. I was a taker
too for way too long. I'm so glad you learned faster than I did. Giving is happiness. My birthday,
57, is in two days. Rock on. Happy birthday, Viad. Forgive me if I butcher your name.
Thank you for coming in here. David, happy birthday, my man. You're one of my heroes.
David, thank you. That means a lot. Try to be a hero to many people because I have several heroes
as well that I like to compliment all the time. So, Tux TV, I've seen better emotions than this
from bow ties because they're so cool. Tux, thanks a lot for the super chat, my friend,
and being here along the journey. I got really emotional earlier. If you're just now tuning in,
you can always go back and watch me cry. And that's just because I wear my heart on my sleeve.
And you matter. This matters. The world matters. I have meaning intrinsically. I don't need
metaphysical somewhere out there necessarily to have it. I feel like I have it right here.
And so, that's what you saw pouring out. Fernando says, happy birthday. Well,
thank you so much, my friend. Like, share, subscribe. Happy birthday, Ginger Griffin says.
Thank you so much. Happy birthday, brother. Christie says, thank you. Christian or not,
you are brilliant. I have experienced religious trauma, I think you mean to say, or drama,
and learned from all your podcasts. James Willock, thank you so much for that compliment.
I agree with the assessment there. Christian or not, I hope whoever they are, people can be brilliant.
And so, thank you for the compliment toward me, but I think that applies for several other people.
Blue Travesty, happy birthday, Derek. If there is a Lord, you're doing his work.
I've been getting this a lot. Thank you so much, Blue. I'll keep doing the Lord's work then.
Happy 21st, Derek. I wish. Used to be 25 or 35. Dr. Cheryl, you're an amazing human, Derek.
These kind of vulnerability keep us coming back. Happy 35. Thank you for being a member
and supportive. You share the heck out of this channel on Twitter and Facebook, and
I really appreciate you. I really appreciate your support, and you being a great human as well.
Thank you. Happy birthday from South Africa, Brown-Win Fleming. Thank you for that in South
Africa. Gettysburg-Demoniac, Derek, happy birthday. Thank you for giving your best to this community
and for helping all of us. You've saved me from the trauma of religion, and for that,
I'm extremely thankful, truly. Thank you. That means a ton. I'm glad that this is helping and
it's giving people an education or even giving meaning and purpose to let you know you're not
alone. If it doesn't work for you, you're not alone. If you find a way to tweak your religion
to where it works for you and it's not as dogmatic or whatever, you find something valuable,
that means something to me. So as long as I'm doing something valuable, that's what matters.
Thank you. Tony, don't want to put you your last name. Keep on keeping on. Will do. Every day,
my friend, try to get better. Outdo myself from the day before. I really appreciate the support.
Thank you. Matt makes cards says, hey, Derek, guess we share a birthday. Well, happy birthday,
my friend. I really appreciate you tuning in. We have a lot of people whose birthdays are today
or tomorrow or yesterday, so thanks for showing up and sharing it with me. The fifth world,
it's the mother not the father. We shouldn't cut it all out before examining that part.
I'm not sure what that's about, but thank you. Hey, Derek, happy birthday. Thank you,
Catty. Mimi, happy birthday, Derek. Thank you so much. Happy birthday, my brother,
Dr. Bitterbrains. Well, thank you so much for that. Gary says, happy birthday, by the way.
May you have many more on more hardcore scholarship. Would love to know about Buddhist
scripture like you have dissected Islam and Christianity. Still have a lot of work to do
with Islam. Obviously, you know, I've done this with Christianity and I love doing this because
I know Christianity better than the rest, but I do want to do Buddhism. I do want to cover
other subjects, which means stick around. We've got a lot more to do. We've got a lot more work to
do, a lot more scholarship to cover, and hopefully we can continue doing that here.
Jayden, happy birthday, Derek. Love your channel. Love to see alternative views on
Christianity. Keep it up. Thank you. Will do. Damon says, hi, God bless you. Well, thank you,
Damon. I take that as a compliment. Sheldon G, happy birthday. Appreciate that. John Stopman,
happy, happy, well, sorry, Myth, Vision, Podcast, happy birthday, Derek. May you grow into a wise
old man. I hope so, John. I hope so. 35 is the age of faithful creation. Trust in your creativity
and happy birthday, Derek. Thank you so much for that. Deviant Outcast, Myth, Vision, Podcast,
can't afford a super chat, but nonetheless wanted to say happy birthday. You've walked a long way
in only 35 years. Many miles are left, and I can't wait to see where you'll lead us. Thank you, Deviant.
Invite Nasdaq teacher, Marty. You already done that earlier. Please email me if you do want to see
me interview some people. Email me some information about them so that I can look into them. I like
to at least scour and view who I'm considering having on the podcast. I used to not do that,
but I do like to vet a little, just because I don't want to end up in a kerfuffle at some point
and be like, dude, you had a guy who's part of the Ku Klux Klan on and you didn't know it.
Just say it. It happens. There's some weird people out there not interested in doing that.
So help me out. Help me out so I can help you out. Oh, my unfinished journey with a super chat.
Thank you for that support. I did a lot of church skits over the years and deaf. One of my top three
was an as the old man in the giving tree. Wow. Major fills as you recited it, remembering what I
did while religious, looking forward to applying same skills with new channel. Wow. Well, if you
started this channel and this is it, my unfinished journey, subscribe to my unfinished journey,
everybody. Let's keep the community tight. Let's grow our community. But the giving tree
doesn't need to be about a religion. It's a philosophy. It's a way of life. It's something that
if you've ever seen someone who's really, truly hungry, truly poor, someone who needs to eat and
you fed them, it's like you're nourished on that knowing you helped that person. I think we evolved
with that kind of sensitivity. But yeah, it's that giving tree that really I want to be the tree
and not the little boy who just took, squandered his life away and take, take, take and not giving
back. So that book, kid's book, just is like top tier philosophy. And I thank you again for that
support. Damian, happy birthday, Derek. Thank you so much. Sheldon, happy birthday. Theo, happy
birthday. Many happy returns, Daniel says. Thank you. Thank you. Happy, happy birthday, Derek.
Run and shoot. Jesse, happy birthday. Happy birthday, Aaron says. Thank you so much. May
the Lord shower you with all the blessings he has in store on your birthday. Keep up the God work.
Maria, thank you so much for that compliment. Again, happy birthday. Happy birthday, Wayne.
Thank you so much for that. Ram says, love you, Derek. Happy birthday, brother. Thank you so much.
Gio, use this waste on the young happy B-day. That's true. Callan, Derek is my father in the
non-faith. LOL, happy birthday. My son, your sins are forgiven. Yes, thank you so much. Dalai Lama,
happy birthday, Derek. Dalai, thank you for your support. Being a Patreon, being a member,
always showing up and complimenting and liking and sharing and super chatting and all that.
Thank you, Dalai Lama. I appreciate it. I am trying to get better like you. Thank you.
Peppermint, thank you for the super, wow, big super chat. Thank you for that massive support of
the channel. Happy birthday, QDPI. And please have my thanks for all your work. It has helped
me unbrainwash quite a few folks. Wow. I'm glad that my work's being used to help you and to help
others find freedom. You know, that old saying, the truth will set you free, free indeed. There is
a sense of freedom that you do gain, I feel, at least from the high control groups that I came
out of. And so, thank you for the compliment. And I hope it continues to help. My work continues to
help great, great super chat and huge super chat. I really appreciate the support. Thank you so much.
Let me see. Run and Shoot says, I know our parasocial friendship isn't real, but watching you these
last several years, you feel like one of my best friends. Wish you the best from Vancouver, Washington,
all the best. Run and Shoot, I'm going to say this, and this is me bragging, tooting my own horn, pat
my own back. Call it selfish if you want. What you see, what you're seeing right here right now is
who I am. I am exactly who you're seeing right now, who you're hearing right now. This is exactly
how I am in real life, probably more so in real life, because we got a screen and we've got,
you know, it's all kind of virtual. But Derek Bennett thought, is he going to be, he told me
this one before he moved into our house for a few weeks. He came over here and was helping me edit
and stuff, Atheologica. He's like, is he the same when he gets in person? Kip Davis thought the same
thing. Kip Davis came down from Canada, met me and was like, damn, you are like you are online.
You're the same guy, you know? And so, you see what you get. If you don't like what you see,
you won't like me. But if you like what you see, you know, you might, we might stand a chance
on being buddies, but thank you Run and Shoot. I appreciate that. The Uncle Jesus show,
holy omnipresent birthday greetings. Thank you for that. James again, happy birthday.
Dan Saber, happy birthday. Oh, by the way, I'm in Putin. He actually is Islamic or
Koran scholar just wished me happy birthday this morning. And now he's messaging me on
WhatsApp right now. He says, happy birthday, buddy. I'm over here multitasking. And you
know who taught me that? My wonderful queen. She knows how to do it better than anybody.
See you for the happy birthday. I didn't get you a present. That's okay. Nobody, you don't have to.
Bob Lyle says, happy birthday, Derek. Thanks for the great interviews. Thank you, Bob. I feel
like I'm getting blurry the closer I get to read. I don't care. I get used to people spelling my
name wrong. It's okay, Mimi. I don't know if I want to eat cake, Amanda. I'm 11 days in my diet.
I'm working out trying to take care of myself. Hold on. My mom's calling me real quick.
Hey, mom, I'm on a live stream right now. You want me to call you when I get done?
Okay. Love you. Bye. Sorry about that. Melody, good to see you here. We got to connect.
Ryan and me been talking about it. We got to contact you. We got to connect. Thank you so much.
Eric, thanks for the share and happy birthday. Take care and be well. Thank you. Is it Eric?
Forgive me if I butchered your name. Feliz Cupliano, Derek. Hello from Madrid. Thank you,
Lena. I hope I said that right. Thank you so much. J.M. says, happy birthday, Derek,
from the Netherlands, all over the world. Everybody is all over the world. Happy
birthday. Just celebrated you and your fine work over on Patreon. Appreciate all you do.
Mark the rationale. Thank you. Working my butt off, trying to get you those Richard C. Miller
interviews. I only have four. One, two, three, one, two, three, four. I have four more interviews
that I'm going to be editing, not today. It's my birthday. Tomorrow, I'll start back.
But we've done one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16 already on Patreon. Two are public. So 14 videos are on Patreon that are not public,
and then I have four more coming with Rick Miller, Richard C. Miller. And then I've got
interviews with Kip Davis, Patreon questions to edit from Kip Davis, YouTube videos with
Kip Davis. I've got ones with Dennis McDonald for Patreon. I have to edit and put up. I've got
so much to do. It never ends. MNag again. Happy birthday, my friend, and thank you for all the
precious nuggets of information I've gotten from you. Thank you for all the precious superchats
and the support and all of that that I've gotten from you. Renato, happy B-day, Derek.
Thank you so much. 15 years alcohol-free, 10 years Jesus-free. Great to see. Thank you so much.
Damien says, hi, God bless you, Derek. Myth, Vision, Podcast. When I write that,
don't appear on chat. Weird. I'm seeing it, my friend. I'm seeing it. Apostle Paul says hello.
Well, hello, Apostle Paul. Superchat inquisitive mind. Happy birthday, brother. I enjoyed working
with you on all the Islamic interviews we did together. The Ghost of Myth, Vision. Inquisitive
mind. Thank you. If it weren't for your help, I would not have been able to formulate those
episodes the way that you helped me formulate them. And we have much work to do in the future,
my friend. I know it seems like we've hit a wall with Islamic scholarship and whatnot, but
I don't think we have. I think it is difficult, but we've got some more work we can do, I think.
And I hope to do more of that with you in the future. Thank you for the support.
Jonathan Francis, happy birthday. Maybe this year you can learn to ground your fundamental
preconditions of intelligibility. Your work means a lot to me. Bring the pre-sups in.
Bring the pre-sups. Jonathan, thank you for that, Superchat. The love, the support,
it makes me keep going. Thank you so much. Stephanie says, well, happy birthday then.
Thank you so much. We do have the best audience, Pragmatic. Richard G says,
hi. Derek just stumbled on your channel a few weeks ago, or a few, sorry, a few weeks while
looking for some answers to some questions. I had a, I had, very glad I did, happy birthday from
Canada. Thank you, Richard. Thank you so much. Derek, you have done really well with this channel.
It can't be easy getting the guest diving into the subject matter and coordinating it all. You
make it look so easy, even though it probably isn't. Gary, I swear it isn't. I'm telling you,
it is not easy. If I didn't have the support of my lovely wife, Ryan, the Queen of Mythvision,
she's helping me run the course side. So every time you buy a course, like purchase the course,
you own it for life, by the way. It's all in the description. We, like promoting it,
you're also helping the Queen because she runs that side of the business and she's helping all
these scholars to be able to make income through giving their insights and information. They've
spent decades coming up with and learning. It's, it supports the guest. It supports the Queen of
Mythvision and she helps me. And so you're like, there's, it's, it's a big machine that stays
oiled through all the support and love in every single shape and way, like from support on super
chats, to comments, to likes, to shares, to getting a course to, you name it, everything adds up.
Thank you for that, Gary. Appreciate that. But if it weren't for her,
I don't know what I'd be doing. I'd be lost, for real. I'd be lost. She's literally everything.
John Long, happy birthday. Bruce says, sometimes I find your questions very annoying,
but your amazing guests usually make up for that. Bruce, I'm glad that my guests make up for that.
Sometimes my questions, sometimes I watch my own stuff and go, eh, yeah. But I like to still see
that sometimes I'm bringing some really good stuff to the table. David Simpson, congratulations
on completing another trip around the sun. May your continued journey be filled with revelations
of holiness. Holiness. Thank you. It's my party and I'll cry if I want to, cry if I want to,
cry if I want to. You will, you would too if it happened to you. He's singing the song.
Thank you, Flash Gordon. Appreciate that. Good to see you here. You've been around for a minute.
Jacquez, Derek, happy birthday. Happy birthday to an early Gemini from a late Gemini. Thanks for
all you do. Loves and hugs to you and our illustrious queen, Jake Mexico. Thank you so much, Jake.
I am a nihilist, not a nihilist. A nihilist, sorry. Happy birthday, Derek. Thank you so much for
the content you provide daily. Team Gemini. I'm an archbishop. Good for you. Happy birthdays.
Awaken and light and happy birthday. Stay strong and keep speaking out and sharing your insights.
Thank you. Awake. Happy birthday, bro. Amen. Cassandra, happy birthday, Apostate. Have a mythic
birthday. Aw, thank you. I really appreciate it. Mark Peralta, Apostate of the Mind. Happy
birthday, Derek. Keep doing your thing. Mark, thank you. Good to see you here. Go subscribe to
his YouTube channel. He's doing content and specifically targeting those in the Spanish
speaking world that don't know English. He's got invaluable material, taking the scholarship.
A lot of the scholars we have here on MythVision and is doing content that is produced in Spanish
for them. Lots of people are seeing it and it's helping tons of people. Mark, thank you for being
here and supporting me. Great to see you here. A train. Happy birthday, bro. Can't stop the A
train. You got quite the show here. I mean the money. Monica, thank you for coming through and
showing a comment and support. A lot of people are super chatting, of course. I really do appreciate
all of that. I appreciate that, Monica. Dali Lama, I think I still have a Sheffield 30-second
cartoon to claim. Yes, you do. You've never claimed it, Dali. If you ever need to, let me know. Hit
me up. I'll bother Jonathan about it. We'll figure it out. D says, happy birthday. Happy annual
getting older day, Derek. Tema, thank you. We love Christians. They are the abiogenic pool
we all spawned in. Hey, Derek. Hope you're doing well. Thank you, Matthias. Thank you so much.
Christian, thank you so much. Happy birthday, Derek. Happy birthday, 666 Jaden.
Mohammed, happy healthy birthday. You help us a lot. I want you to know you are appreciated
from folks in Yemen and you are changing lives worldwide. Thank you so much. Gary says,
MythVision podcast. Derek, was it on leaving Christianity that drove you? Okay, yep. We already
answered this. Happy birthday. Thanks for all you do in sharing your scholarship and personal
story. You're an inspiration. Watch every week. Thank you. Do you realize that it's a historical
fact that Christ was buried on the third day? There was an empty tomb and appearances to the
11 and Mary Magdalene and the other Mary? I'm suppressing the truth in unrighteousness. Don't
tell anybody. Just popped in to say happy birthday, Jasmine. I've been enjoying your content.
Happy, or have a great day. Thank you, Jasmine. Appreciate that. Constellation. Pegasus.
Happy birthday. Always coming through, showing serious love, support for the channel.
Are you in need of a walking cane yet due to your advanced age? You know what? I've been walking a
lot. It sounds tempting. It sounds tempting. Thank you so much for that super chat. I appreciate
that. I really appreciate that. I want birthday where money just floods in like this. I'd love
every day to be like that, right? Thank you for noticing. Look at the trees. Happy birthday,
Derek. I'm a former junkie myself and you are doing great things. Thank you. Look at the trees.
Cowboy1000. Happy B-day. Love the podcast. Thank you for the support and the compliment.
I want to contact MythVision. If your question in what I've been seeing above is what you want to
email me, I mean, you can email me. If I get a chance, I'll try to email, but the best you can
do is try to email me on that. If not, during like a stream or something, feel free to super chat
your question and I'll answer, but I'm not going to waste time today going into whether night, you
know, picking apart what you're describing that's found in the Gospels. So I'm very cautious on
what the Gospels say is what actually happened. Captive desk indeed, Derek. I got a Facebook
message this morning saying hi and they are really enjoyed my video with that Aussie fella made my
morning. Okay. Thank you. I don't know the video you're referring to. Jay, happy birthday, Reverend.
Thank you so much for that. Happy birthday, bro. All downhill after 50, Stan says.
Thank you so much. James, happy birthday. Dr. Cheryl, some deities sent MythVision to me.
Hallelujah. Happy birthday to the best YouTube host. I'm indebted to you. Thank you, Dr. Cheryl.
Thank you. I'm indebted to you. You constantly share this content out there and try to
keep the community of scholars we have growing. Let me grab a water real quick. Bear with me one
second, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going hard over here trying to read all your messages.
One second, please. Bear with me.
Sorry, I was just getting lightheaded. I wanted to make sure that I don't faint on
stream with you all watching. Wally, happy birthday, Derek. Thank you, Wally.
Wally, we need more debates on the channel. Someone said, I'm going to need to work on that.
Derek, I think you have a kind heart and that is wisdom. I am a Christian. I enjoy Richard
Rower, et cetera. I believe God is love. Full stop. I enjoy your channel, though. Violet Sky,
thank you. I'm all about the love and I'm all about trying to create unity and peace and things
like that, progress for humans. I really appreciate that you're seeing through the whole us-first-them
debate stuff and realizing that we're all good people just trying to do better. Thank you for the
compliment. Happy birthday, Derek. You share the same bidet with my mom. We'll tell your mom happy
birthday, Lord Roku. Camille Greger in the house. Hey, Camille. Good to see you here. Thanks for
everything in the past and hopefully we can have you back on to do another show because
Camille's a learned gentleman. I can promise you that.
Johnny, brother, happy birthday. Thank you, Johnny. Looking forward to your new channel.
Jay Mapperson's getting a new channel. Check it out. The next myth you need to start exposing is the
contagion. I don't know what that is. Okay. Courtney, happy birthday. I hope you have an
amazing day and thank you so much for all the wonderful work you do. Thank you, Courtney.
One-eyed Jack. Happy getting older day, Derek. Thanks for all you do. Thank you for that, Jack.
And thank you for the support, show and love. Man, I've been showered like this is crazy.
So many people show and love. It's wild. Max, happy birthday, Derek. I didn't know so many people
were going to show up and be like celebrating it with me here. I literally came in here to
like cry and show you how much I appreciate and like just, you know, wanted to like share my whole
giving tree story and everybody's showing so much love. It means a lot.
Jack was never stopped. Never learning never stops. No matter how old you get,
I can't super chat, but I have plenty of super chat or stupid chat. Christian, thank you so much for
that. Imnaq, this is what it's all about people. We invest our money on something important.
Imnaq, thanks, man. Appreciate that. I really do appreciate it.
Jonathan Sheffield's channel, the guy who makes my intros, cartoons. There's his YouTube channel.
Go subscribe. Camille Greger, happy B-day. We get to be the same age for 19 days.
Wow. So you're about my age. That's wild. We are the same age. So are you a year ahead of me?
I'm curious. I don't know. Or you're behind. Johnny, I just turned 36 on my 14th worst birthday
of my life. I admire you greatly. Johnny, thank you for the compliment. I really appreciate that.
I hope your queen spoils you today because this is the one and only time in your life that you'll
be 35. Happy birthday, Derek. Thank you. She spoils me every day. She's too good to me.
She is. So thank you for that. Happy birthday. The truth is, thank you. Bilal, happy birthday, Derek.
Awesome. Thank you so much. James, there's Inquisitive Mind's YouTube channel. Subscribe.
Thank you, James, for doing this for me and helping out. I couldn't do all this. This is
another thing. I have the support of you guys. I really appreciate that. VG, happy birthday,
Derek. Wish you all the best in life. Thank you. I wish you the same. I hope that your life goes well,
my friend. Elle says, happy birthday, Derek. Thank you so much for helping overcome my shame for
de-converting. That's another thing I love that you highlighted just there. There's the shame of
addiction and I was a drug addict. People literally started anonymous, 12 Steps Anonymous Groups,
because they don't want people to know. There's a stigma on what your past was or what you've done.
And it's like, no shame here. I'm going to wear it like a freaking badge of honor. Yes, I was a
Christian. I'm no longer one. Yes, I was a drug addict and I'm no longer one. But you know,
is what it is. I have my explanations. I can explain to you. You could judge me forever if you'd
like, but I'm trying to break the stigma so that you don't feel alone. And it doesn't hurt my feelings
that people look at me a certain way because of that. And I hope that it makes others not feel
alone and ashamed of that as well. Thank you so much. Chris says, I raise a non-habit forming
glass in your honor. Chris, enjoy that glass for me, my friend. Happy birthday, Han. Ms. Jay,
thank you for being a member and just tuning in to say, hey, and happy birthday. I really
appreciate that. It means a lot. Golan, Golan, forgive me. Happy birthday, old man. I know,
I'm getting old. I'm getting old. Johnny says, the most rational, reasonable,
ex-Christian I've ever listened to. Thank you, Johnny. Alaska Sky, happy birthday. Thank you.
Thanks so much for helping me overcome my shame again. Thank you again for that compliment.
And I hope that I continue to do that. X in music with the super chat. Thank you so much,
X in music for that. Always in the chat, always helping communicate, having conversations with
everybody. It means a lot. It really means a lot to see you always in the chat and
dialoguing. Even if we disagree with people in there, you're there. And I see the same names,
and those are people that always come up in my mind. So I love seeing that, the community.
Is it KaiGuy? Thank you for the super chat. Here's to many more, Derek. This is my first ever
super chat. I echo all the compliments here on trying to learn to give more. Thank you so much,
KaiGuy. I really, really appreciate that. That's a lot of compliments all at once. It's a bit
overwhelming. Let me take them in slowly though. But thank you for the super chat.
Roka, happy birthday. Thank you so much. Leonardo, happy birthday, Derek. Keep up the good content.
Ethan, happy birthday, Derek. Nobody does it like you, the Lambert of God. Hallelujah.
Thank you so much, Ethan. I appreciate that. The non-alchemists go subscribe one of the most
underrated channels. I can't believe there's a crime happening on YouTube right now.
How the heck he doesn't have more subscribers is beyond me. Happy birthday. Do you have a moment
to talk about our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ? I'm reminded of that moment where the guys running
or the people are running or the animals are running and that person's voice is in the background.
Hey, hey, do you have time to talk about our Lord and Savior, Jesus? Thank you so much,
non-alchemists. Good to see you here. Blake, happy birthday, Derek. Any advice for an atheist who
can't find good friends outside of the church? I identify myself as a Christian atheist for that
reason. Advice would be, I imagine, depends on what you're wanting to do, but there are
like discord groups, Facebook groups, there's social media ways. As far as in person,
if I'm being completely frank, like I only hang out with my wife, my kids, my family,
like these are the people that I usually spend all my time with, like in person,
but I hang out online through social media and communicate with people through Messenger on
Facebook, through Twitter, Instagram messages sometimes, not often. There is a discord group.
You can find discord groups, things like that. You'll find your niche and who you most line up with.
That would be what I'd do. Another option is start a YouTube channel doing things you love that are
in the vein of maybe whatever that is, and people gravitate themselves to your type of content.
We created, I didn't mean to, started it off as like a hobby, but MythVision grew. We're almost
100,000 subscribers just simply by talking about the stuff we love to talk about and literally
diving into the material, letting it guide our path. People came along like the snowball effect
downhill. People just started subscribing and connecting and saying, Hey, this is the community
I want to be part of. And so I would imagine you can create your own community and it could be sister
communities, brother communities of what we do here at MythVision. So I always encourage people,
start a community, start your own niche, and I'll be happy to tune in, check you out, and try to
show you some love from time to time. Even if it's not content, I personally watch or listen to
often, I'll still show up to say, Hey, what's up, man? I'm in the chat and just show you some love.
So if that's something you ever want to do, Blake, do it. And yeah, that's my advice. But
maybe it's bad advice. Maybe it's good advice. I don't know. Don't take me as an expert on this.
I'm just trying to give you some tips on what I think might work. A hurrah says, Born, born again,
and born again, again. Thank you so much. Happy birthday, Leela. Thank you.
Georgia. Happy birthday. Congratulations on your special day. Thank you so much.
John Stottman said, I turned 48 16 days ago. Well, happy late birthday.
Happiest of happy birthdays, Derek. Hair metallurgist. Thank you for that soup or not super chat. Sorry,
they just a compliment. We've had so many super chats. I'm like, thank you for the super chat.
Thank you for the super chat. The governor says his wife's birthdays tomorrow will tell her happy
birthday, the governor. Hey, Mojo. Good to see you. Constellation again with another super chat.
You need to interview Professor Dave about his debate he had not too long ago. It was serious
hostile one. Spirited debate is weak to describe it. Okay, I'm going to do this for you. I'm going
to show you something just so you know what's the delios. So we're on the same page.
When you go to my YouTube channel from time to time, you might go to the home page.
You'll notice I have live streams coming up right here. I'm doing a debate review,
a biogenesis debate. And then, of course, I have Dr. James Tor over here on the right.
Are we clueless about the origin of life research? Me, Aaron Raugh, and of course,
Professor Dave will be reviewing that on May 31st. And that will be at 12 p.m. my time,
which is noon Pacific Standard Time. And James will be on with Aaron Raugh. No,
James Tor won't be on. Sorry, Aaron Raugh and Dave Farina will be on. And I'll be asking some
questions because I barely judged through that debate because it was so people over talking
each other. It was so emotional. So much stuff going on. And at home and I'm here and at home
and I'm there, it was hard for me to get through. But anyway, I am going to be reviewing it. I do
have some serious and sincere questions about what I think James Tor is doing here and why I
think there's problems with it. But at the same time, I want to hear what they say because they
know more on the science than I do. So if you ever go to MythVision's page and you're trying to find
out where coming streams are, just scroll down. It's the first thing. I've got one tomorrow with
Neil. We're doing talking about Greek legends and how they may have some overlap with Jewish ideas
and of course, New Testament. This one you're not going to want to miss is Friday. This one,
we had some Reddit guys bringing some critiques to Dennis and he's going to be correcting the full.
Also, we're going to do a Muslim call-in show. So ex-Muslim apostate Aladdin is actually going
to be taking calls from Muslims and talking to them. We're trying to have that interfaith dialogue
between active Muslims and ex-Muslims to try and break down the stigma as well, but also get them
to understand where he's coming from. Anyway, those are live streams coming up. We've got the
shorts. We've got videos, blah, blah, blah, and then channels. You get the point. Thank you for
the Super Chat constellation. We are going to be reviewing it. Stay tuned. Scooby Mike, happy
birthday, Derek. Thank you for the happy birthday. Hella, Jay. Happy birthday. Thank you for all
you do for the community. You are helping to change lives. Thank you for the Super Chat and the
compliment that if you have that many people reassuring you that what you're doing is actually
changing people, your confidence, man. It really helps because then it tells you, all right,
I'm doing something right. I'm doing something right. If that many people really feel that way,
because if you didn't feel that way, I don't think you'd be saying it. At least I try to think that.
Don't kiss my butt. Tell me the truth, right? I think it's really changing people's lives.
Hella, Jay. Thank you so much for that. Dr. Kip Davis, man, I was waiting for you to pop in here.
I was just talking about you. I've got a lot of videos we're still trying to edit of yours and
your testimony of leaving Christianity is up on the Patreon for those who aren't on the Patreon
or the member side, so you can become a YouTube member and you'll access that.
35. You're 35 years old? I know, man. 35 never looks so good. I get it.
Kip, thanks a lot, man, for jumping in here. Paul, happy birthday, brother Dalai Lama.
I love seeing you all here. Mojo, do you want to listen or read Sira of Muhammad, you and
Arneal? Please, please, please. Neal knows how to make parallels. Sira of Muhammad is the gospel of
Hisham. Please, please. I don't know what that is, but I'd be happy to check it out.
Cold iron? Happy birthday, young man. Thank you. Now that, my shock has subsided. Happy birthday,
my friend. I know. Thank you, Kip. Appreciate it, brother. Happy birthday, Derek. Long
life from Europe. Jelly? Jelly? Forgive me. Thank you. Dr. Kill is in the house.
420 Cafe. Happy popped out of the womb day, Derek. Best wishes. Thank you so much for that.
Arne, happy birthday. Happy birthday, Jeannie says. Thank you for the great informative
discussions provided on your channel. Appreciate that. They will continue.
Katie Black, happy birthday. Happy birthday, D. I have. Thank you.
Jeannie with the happy birthday. Get your brains unwashed here at MythVision.
Lee Roy, oh my gosh, happy birthday. Everything you do is so important. Thank you so much,
Lee Roy. Anubis, happy birthday. Your channel superb. Goodness gracious. Showered with love.
My wife's going to be like, I've already told you happy birthday. I'm not telling you again.
Look at all the people. Oh my gosh, she literally is the next comment. What in the world is going on
here? Blake, Derek is the same yesterday, today and forevermore. Amen. Hallelujah. Tell my wife
that if you would. I might send you a check to do it. Rye Lambert, my wife. Happy birthday to the
best man I know and to the love of my life. You are the love of my life and you are the best woman
I have ever known and the best mother I could ever ask for and the best wife I could ever ask for.
And you're just best partner and best friend and everything. And I think we're going to do so much
better. We're exercising now together. We're doing, we're, I'm telling you, we're just, our friendship
is going to deepen and deepen and deepen and grow and grow and get better and better as the time
continues. I love you. Thank you for showing up in the chat. I love you. She's probably right above
me right now, actually, in her office, but she had to come in and show some love. Thank you.
Charles Huckleberry. I'll be your Huckleberry. Happy birthday. Leon. Hi, Derek. Happy birthday.
You are awesome. Thank you, Leon. CJ, with the happy birthday, your channel has been
such a blessing. I think that's what they mean to say. Derek, you're bond with scholars and the
exclusive access and insights it provides to your followers are priceless. Happy birthday.
Here's to a thrilling journey for at least another 35 years party on. I hope, you know,
I've thought about death a lot since de-converting and it's like, give me at least as much time in
the sunlight as I could possibly have. Thank you for that. I made a huge oatmeal raisin cookie for
Derek's birthday, but I ate it myself. I'm glad you did because I don't want to eat it. I'm trying
to diet here. Blake says, all wish mom would have said hi to the live stream. If you're talking about
my mom, my mom is at her house busy doing stuff. I could have put her on speaker, but I didn't.
Filthy mouth school boys makes it up. Happy birthday. Let me try to get through here.
Demi, happy birthday. I love everything you make. The giving tree is commenting on toxic
relationships. Relationships where one constantly gives and the other only takes it's unhealthy.
It's unhealthy. True. And that's why my whole life, when I give, I stay on that up and up and I'm
doing good and I have control and I don't have to use drugs to escape reality. You're comfortable
in your own skin. Thank you. Scooby Mike says, congrats on outliving Jesus. David Aaron Hill,
thank you for the super chat. I really appreciate the support. It means a tongue. Happy birthday.
Keep up the great work. David, thanks for being here and continuing to be here and being supportive
of what we're doing and super chatting. Thank you. Subscribe to Kip Davis. Make sure you do that.
Thank you. Super nice, Robert. Happy birthday. You are super nice, Robert, for that super chat.
I appreciate it and the compliment. I really do appreciate that. Derek and I did a deuteronomy,
you know what I'm saying, history discussion that is fire. Get ready because that's coming out too
and that's a deep, deep, deep video. Kip gets, like, I didn't realize it until we sat there
and recorded with high quality. You're going to find some amazing recordings that we did with Dr.
Davis. And if you're interested, you can also take the course on the real ancient Israelite
religions, high, high quality visuals, the whole nine. And he takes you into everything ancient,
who the God of Israel was to him having a wife, human sacrifice, you name it, textual reception
of it, like what's going on. There's a lot. So I encourage everybody to take Dr. Kip's course.
We just recently launched that not too long ago. If you haven't yet, it's in the description.
Carmen G with a happy birthday. By the way, that's a way of giving and you're getting something back.
So if you feel like, hey, I want to give for a birthday or I want to give, you're not only
helping Dr. Kip, you're not only helping what we do here at MythVision, you're helping yourself,
learn something that you're only going to find in, like, institutions and academic institutions.
People pay a lot of money to go and learn this material. We're trying to bring it to you
for an affordable cost. So the backyard professor, happy birthday, Derek. Remember,
you don't get to claim old age until you are 100. Thank you so much, man. I really appreciate you.
I love you. I appreciate what you do. You're always plugging away. You're even out there trying to get
these courses out there. You love Dennis McDonald's work. Keep up the good work, my friend. And thank
you for showing up today. Happy birthday from Belgium. Thank you, Semos. Happy birthday.
Thanks for all. You have to elevate the discussion in the community. Thank you.
Thank you so much. Happy birthday, Jelises. Long live from Belgium. I think I already read that.
Alexander, happy birthday, Derek. Here's some emoji cake, zero calories, zero sugar, zero fat.
Jokes aside, thanks for all you do. Definitely help me process years after leaving my church,
Colt. LLDM. Interesting. I'm not sure what that Colt is, specifically.
Daniel, happy birthday, Derek. Great to see you smile and face. Thank you.
Omar, hello, everyone. Hope you're well. Thank you. Thank you. Happy B Day, dear Derek. Thank you.
I'm trying to scroll here. You inspire us all, Derek. Thank you. The backyard professor,
Sharon, with a happy birthday, Derek. Thank you for all you do. Thank you so much, Sharon.
Holy shift. Happy birthday, Derek. You are a gift to us all. Well, thank you for the gift of the
Super Chat, but also the gift of an amazing compliment. Thank you. Really means a lot,
and I appreciate the Super Chat. And what a heck of a name. When I get mad from now on,
or like shot, I'm just like, holy shift. People know what that means. They know.
Omar says, happiest of birthdays to you. I hope you have a long life, full of joy,
success, and love, wishing you all the best. Thank you, Omar. Of course, I would have Dan
McClellan back on the show A-Train. I hope to have him on in the future again. I love his
scholarship, his book, Divine Images, Yahweh's Divine Images. Excellent scholar. I recommend
him to everybody, so I would love to have him back on again. He's been on twice before,
and I hope to do it again in the future. Robert Hollander, thank you for that happy
birthday. You don't look a day over 25. Keep up the great work, and thanks for everything.
Thank you, Robert. Appreciate that compliment. Makes me feel good about myself.
Hello, and happy birthday, Derek. Maka, happy birthday. Hope you are having a great day today,
and thank you for sharing a part of it with us. Thank you for sharing it with me. You didn't
have to show up, but you did means a lot. English matters. Happy birthday. Thank you for that.
Fergie, happy birthday, Derek. Yahweh has nothing on you, bro. I know. Thank you so much for that.
Really appreciate the love. You know, Mojo, I actually have my little head covering over there
that I brought back from Israel. I got to get through these, because if not, my wife's going
to hate me. We've got to go and celebrate the birthday a little bit here. Happy birthday from
Brazil. Thank you. Happy birthday, Lambert of God or not. Thank you so much for the compliment.
William Arans, happy birthday, you old heretic. May you have the continued ability to investigate
all the hidden and exposed corners of both philosophy and theology. William Arans,
thank you for always being here and that Super Chat. You're also a patron, and I seriously
appreciate that support. It's you, patron members, you members of the channel, these Super Chats
that are able to allow me to do this. So I thank you. If it weren't for you, it wouldn't be enough.
It wouldn't be enough for me to be able to continue doing what I do.
Today, whenever someone Super Chats, I check to see if they have an active channel. If they do,
I'm linking their channel in the chat. MythVision supports those to support MythVision 100%.
Absolutely. And the least we can do is try to help get their content out there to create the
community, to grow the community and such. Fly away, dearie. MythVision has been treasure trove
of deep academia that has fostered what is now a life passion. Studying religious origins and
context, your guests are phenomenal. Happy B Day. My best to the Queen. Wow. That's powerful. Thank
you. I really appreciate the support as well. And I hope my wife watches that and goes, thank you.
Nini says, happy birthday. Thank you. Oh, my gosh. My buddy, Steven Nelson over here in the chat.
Love you, man. All the hard work you do, you're so enthusiastic about the Greek language, the
Greek world. I'm thankful for you. Like, there's nobody more meticulous that I know than you.
And I mean that as a compliment. You are like nobody I've ever met. And I really appreciate
meeting you, dude. Met you down in California for those who don't know. And we will meet again.
Trust me. Maybe we'll visit in Greece together with the cameras rolling. So,
Steven, you're just, I'm glad to call you friend. And I'm happy to have you as a friend. And I
thank you for the super chat and the happy birthday bro and all of that. But thank you for
being in my corner and just learning with me and teaching me. You have corrected me on so many things.
Not in like a, you're wrong, but like a, I'm a student and I'm trying to get better at this.
And you have been there several times when I needed you most. So thank you so much. Appreciate that.
Witness underground with a happy birthday. Thank you.
Gary, happy birthday, Derek. Finished watching the course you did with Dennis McDonald last night.
Absolutely amazing. Keep up the fantastic work. Gary, I'm sold, man. I am sold.
Is he right on everything? Probably not. But guess what? When I ask him that, he says,
I'm probably not right on everything. He's trying to make guesses because he sees the
camel under the tent, the head of the camel. He knows there's a camel there. I know there's a
camel. There's no doubt in my mind he's right about some of this stuff. But that course will take you
through a lot. And what's crazy is there's so much we didn't cover that's in this book that we
couldn't cover in the course. We already did 18 lectures in that course. Thank you for signing
up for the course. You helped Dr. Dennis McDonald. You helped the queen of math vision. You helped
math vision. And you helped the course site so that we can continue bringing more academics
to teach courses by signing up. I'm sure you helped yourself. Thank you so much, Gary.
Love is certainly love. And we love love here. That's true. Pocket locker Jay Bundy in the house.
Happy birthday, Derek. Thanks for everything you do for this community. Go subscribe to Pocket
Locker 86. I love your activist movement, Jay. What you're doing, you're trying to help people
break down the stigma, getting people to see each other as humans who bleed the same.
Thank you for the super chat. I hope that more people will learn from you. And you being an
intelligent biologist or evolutionary, you're a scientist, man. You know your stuff. And we got
to get you to come do a course at some point on evolution. We'll really plan it out. Make this
thing right. But Jay, thanks for showing up today and continuing to try and be the best human you
can. We all struggle. We're all trying to learn, right? But are we all trying to learn and grow?
That's what's important. And excuse me, the water. We're all trying. Thanks, Jay.
Happy birthday, Captain Man. Bridges, I don't want to butcher your first name. Thank you.
Newman, happy birthday and waiting your debate with Daniel Kikachu. I don't debate. Number one.
Number two, what is there to debate? What is there to debate? This guy is trying to say
marrying children is good. I don't even think that's a debatable topic. I think it's common sense
that people just don't marry children. But you know, I got to take my jabs. Look, I rooted.
Michael Jones, inspiring philosophy, went and debated him. I was on Michael Jones' side 100%
The science is on Michael Jones' side. The evidence is on his side. So you know what? You
got to pick your team. It doesn't matter if you agree with them at the end of the day on certain
things. But that is horrific. The stuff Daniel's doing. Goodness gracious. Captain Dess, thank you
for the super chat. I love you. Thank you for the hearts. That's the first thing that came to my
mind was love. And I really appreciate the support. Dr. James Tabor. Hey, Derek, just seeing this
between appointment, wishing you and your family all the best. James, you inspire me, man. I love
you. I love you. I love you. I mean that. Like, you're like a father figure best friend type person
to me. And we talk almost on a regular, almost every day in some way, shape or form. Your work,
your knowledge, your insight, your expertise, your academic, your course that people take on
Mark and the ones we have coming. There's so much, man. And this is just the beginning. That's how I
see it, James. This is just the beginning. And I hope I'm saying that when I'm your age. This is
just the beginning. Passing the torch on to the next generation. Thanks for popping them in. You
mean a lot to me. And I hope that people will subscribe to your YouTube channel. Because
what you're doing is big work. Big work. Guitar dog, happy B-day dog. Bro, I read your name and
thought dog, bro. Zerg, happy birthday. Witness Underground, love your show. When asked what
noteworthy shows I've been on, you're on the top of the list. Thank you so much, Witness.
Appreciate you. Thank you. I just realized Derek shares a birthday with Maru the cat.
Hmm. Go check out Jay Bundy's YouTube channel, Pocket Locker in the House. James
Apperson, thanks for sharing that, man. I really appreciate it. And I know that you guys have
had little hiccups here and there in the past. I hope that that paves over and you guys bond again.
You don't have to agree on everything. That's the point. Darius, happy birthday, man. Thank you
so much for that. Like, share and subscribe. History for atheists, if you don't subscribe
right now, your history. I hope that you'll subscribe for sure. I've learned a lot from you.
Thank you for coming in today and showing some love. It's getting late over there in Australia,
so I'm sure you're staying up past your bedtime just to say, hey, thank you for tuning in, man.
It means a lot to me. There's so many YouTube channels popping up by James. Just click,
subscribe, come back. Gnosis Broces, pro tip as a fellow 35-year-old. You can still get away
with calling yourself early 30s, about half the time. Thanks for the super chat and the joke.
I appreciate that. That's being optimistic. Glass is half full. Thank you. Appreciate that.
Steven Bragg, happy birthday, Derek. Thank you for the super chat. I got to roll through these.
My wife is going to kill me. I swear my wife is going to kill me.
JR, happy birthday. Thank you. Enjoy your day the whole nine. I use the whole nine all the time.
Thank you. Thank you for the membership. Blessings, David says. Thank you so much.
Happy birthday from South Africa. Dean says. Thank you so much for that.
Eighth day of independent fundamental Baptist evangelical or evangelist. Hello, happy birthday.
Thank you for the happy birthday. Titan Uranus, happy birthday, you magnificent beast.
Can't stay, but I wanted to say, happiest of birthdays to Derek. Thank you so much.
Happy birthday, young king. Thank you for that.
Please come to this Wednesday night's healing service.
Right? Happy birthday, Derek. Happy birthday to my friend, Derek Cruz.
Thank you so much for the happy birthdays. Foundation, Chicago with the happy birthday.
Dolly Lama showing shout outs. The wife, the queen of myth vision.
Marquita, happy birthday, Derek. Many, many more. Thank you, Marquita.
I'm trying to make sure I hit everybody, but please forgive me if I got a butcher through these
because I do need to try and get out of here with my wonderful queen.
Peace and food. Happy birthday. Happy B-day, my guy. Thanks for the hard work.
Thank you so much. Anzu with the happy birthday. Hey, happy birthday. Thank you.
Nicholas. Thank you for the super sticker, Nicholas. He has a YouTube channel as well.
In time, I believe it is, Nicholas. I don't think it's under your name here you're using here,
but thank you for the super sticker. Appreciate that. Congratulations.
Happy birthday from Germany, Derek. You are the very best. Thanks for your channel. Thank you,
Edwin. Happy birthday series. Thank you. Mid-level specialist. Happy birthday, Derek.
It's my birthday as well. Happy birthday to you. I hope you have a special things planned.
Nothing gets more special than spending time with my wife and the kids and family.
So proud of you, Derek, and all that you've accomplished. You'll never walk alone
with wife and your family by your side. Again, James, thank you for that.
You've said that earlier and I repeat it again. Happy birthday, Derek.
Chris Moore, thank you so much. I got to scroll down. Forgive me.
Inquisitive bind, you're right, Derek, as Arnold says, I'll be back. Get to the chapel.
That's right. I like my favorite one is who is your daddy and what does he do?
That one just always gets me laughing. All right. Where am I at on this?
Scrolling down here. I have to. I'm so sorry if I've skipped somebody that might have been
complimenting. I got to go. I got to get this through. Harmonic atheist. Happy birthday, Derek.
You don't look a day over 50. That's the second time someone's done that to me, Tim.
And it's funny. It's funny. Come on. Subscribe to Harmonic Atheist.
He's giving the stories of people in high control groups and groups that have really
caused harm and letting their voices be heard. I hope you'll subscribe to Tim Mills' channel,
Harmonic Atheist. I really appreciate the love and support, Tim. I hope you and your household
and everything you have going on is getting better and things are getting better for you, Tim.
We got to catch up sometime, brother. I know you're busy. You know I'm busy, but please do.
In time it is. MythVision, my birthday too. Your birthday? Happy birthday.
Subscribe to In Time Show. Please subscribe. There it is. Pragmatics in the house. Man,
we have the best community out there. I'm telling you. Let's keep growing it. But thank you for
covering those and sharing the links to people. I love you all. I seriously do. When I say that,
I mean that. I don't even know you and it doesn't matter. Ask my wife. One day she'll come on.
She'll spend more time on here. I've got a talk. I've got a plan to do a show with my wife,
Ryan, where she's going to talk about what it was like dealing with me when I was fanatic,
when I was really religious. And you can hear her side of it. And we'll have a conversation.
And I promise you that I will not over talk. She's shy, so I have to try to get her to nudge
her a little bit to have the conversation going. But I want you to hear from her more.
But I'm going to tell you, she'll tell you, we go anywhere. Talk to anyone. And I'm like,
just such a good, friendly guy to them that my wife's like, you make friends anywhere and
everywhere, huh? So when I say I love you, like I really, if something happened to someone I don't
even know, a stranger, I'm going to take my shirt off and try to help you. You need a shirt. I got
a shirt for you. You're hurting. I'm going to try and help you. That's what I hope more people do
in the world. And yeah, there you have it. I'm 35. I'm still alive. I'm going to keep trying to live
long as I can. And let's keep educating. Anyway, freaking love the heck out of you all. You really
showered me with a heck of a birthday gift today with all those super chats. Thank you. You mean a
lot. And let's see, I guess I'll do my outro with the matrix, right? By the way, a little story
behind the matrix, I literally just wanted to imitate the movie when I did this. Of course,
I wanted to paint this outro intro as me in my life of waking up from the fuzzy dream of religion
that I was in, that I thought was real reality. It has its own tie-in somewhat with the Plato's
Cave kind of idea. And I know that Plato's Cave does other things in philosophy as well,
goes further, and it's not a perfect analogy. The blue and red pill has nothing to do with
this or that political point of view because people have turned it into that. It was just waking up
from that slumber, that thinking I was in reality, but I wasn't really in reality.
And the man at the beginning originally was Bob Price, but I ended up changing it and had the
cartoon to actually be my father, my dad. And my dad's voice is actually the one that's in the
outro. So Jonathan Sheffield, thank you for making my intros and outros if you're even here still.
And everybody, I want to thank you. Here's to waking up and having more people wake up.
Never forget, we are MythVision. Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back. You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and
believe whatever you want to. You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland
and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes. I can't leave on this note. I can't,
you threw freaking money at me. I can't leave. I have to give you a shout out. Like I hate leaving
when a super chat comes up because nothing makes me hurt more than I didn't give you a shout out.
We'll come back to you, Mr. Matrix. The mythic life, Idaho, that's right. Idaho, not Udaho.
We have an inside joke here. Thank you for that. Happy birthday. For sure. Thank you. And thank
you for your never ending support of what we do here. We want to create a community where we
continue to educate and let ideas flourish, right? Let other people learn. I appreciate that. And then
Nuria, thank you so much for that super chat. Happy birthday, Mr. Myth Vision. We absolutely
love and appreciate your work. Dirty 30s will be your best decade yet. I hope I say that every
decade to come. So can't leave you hanging there. I'm also a member of Nuria's YouTube channel.
Go subscribe to Holy Humanist. She's trying to do some changes big time. Ex-Muslim,
ex-Muslim female, which is very difficult. Her community could use more support from our
community. And I hope that you will go over there because she's always streaming and stuff.
Show her some love. Let her know, hey, I'm here for Myth Vision because your community is my
community, Nuria. And I hope that you continue to educate and help people find freedom and joy
and happiness and peace because it's really there. They don't need this book, this ancient book,
this religion, this particular thing in order to find that. And you've shown that with your life.
So please go subscribe. You're the best. I hope that people will do that. And there's her YouTube
channel. Now, back to commercials. We are Myth Vision.
All I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
you
