Jerusalem, the city of Islam Today, I'm interviewing Paul Ellis.
On the origins of Islam and in the Quran, the constant references to the house of God.
And when we look at the Bible as its connections, we constantly see Jerusalem being the locale.
Why is it that Muslims prayed in that direction but then it changed?
While the Muslim sources say Mecca, while others are arguing Petra as the source for
Mohammed's journeys in the beginning, Jerusalem is the only place we have a coin.
We have numismatic evidence supporting the case that early Islam started and was birthed
from the city of Jerusalem.
In this 25 part series with Paul Ellis, we're going to go through these arguments.
In the case of Jerusalem playing a much more significant role in early Islam than what
the Islamic tradition tells you.
We are myth vision.
Welcome back to myth vision podcast.
Taking a deep dive into early origins, if you will, of Islam, my guest today is Paul
Ellis.
How are you, my friend?
I'm very well.
Thank you.
Thank you for having me on the show and I am Paul Ellis.
Thank you so much for joining me.
I really appreciate it.
Paul, you wrote an article just for anybody who's interested in reading.
It is down in the description of the video and you're on academia.
I am as well.
You wrote Jerusalem City of Islam and we're going to get into this paper because it's
such a long paper and obviously you want to be visually appeased here on YouTube.
We're going to have some visuals as you build your case up on dealing with the City of Islam
Jerusalem.
Your article and those who are watching, please never forget to help support us here at Myth
Vision's Patreon.
I just dropped another little bomb, if you will, with Bart Ehrman and then of course,
I've got all sorts of stuff, introductions to Talmudic or rabbinic Judaism and it goes
on and on and on.
I've done quite a bit of work, early access.
Go check it out.
All right.
So Paul, I'm excited to see what you have to say in relation to the City of Jerusalem
and early Islam because I did an interview with Stephen Jay Shoemaker, the only interview
on YouTube with him.
He finally buckled, actually Bart Ehrman twisted his arm and said, hey, this is a good
show and he's a good host.
So please go do a show with him and he thinks you have to have it on probability, but he
thinks there's a high probability that Jerusalem played a much bigger, significant role in
early Islam.
I suspect you're going to go down the same path, but you're going to take it and show
us some reasons why.
I'm going to go down the same path that Stephen Shoemaker has pointed out, but I'm going to
go a few steps beyond him when we get to the end, as far as he went, I'm going to go a
little bit further.
In Shoemaker's book, The Death of a Prophet, he argued, I thought compellingly, that Muhammad
was leading a military campaign in Palestine trying to capture Jerusalem.
In his second book, or not his second book, but his second book on this topic, Apocalypse
of Empire, he referred to the possibility that the Masjid al-Haram in the Quran is a
Jerusalem temple.
And all he said was, it's a possibility that suddenly shouldn't be excluded.
So I'm going to go a little bit further.
I think he stopped with a bit shy.
I'm going to go through the door that he's pointed us to.
I'm excited.
Let's see this presentation.
OK, this is my article, and I'd encourage everyone to read it, or as much of it as you
can possibly manage.
It's very long, as you say, but there's a reason why it's long.
And the reason why the article is so long, it's about 100 pages, is because there's simply
so much evidence and so much argument in favor of the Quran's Masjid al-Haram referring
to the Jerusalem temple.
I thought just to scope my article, I totted up all the different arguments that I presented,
and I came up with 25.
So I want to just spend a few minutes, maybe 10 minutes or so, just listing all the arguments
that I present in this article.
So this is a real 10-minute scoping of the case.
Firstly, the Quran is saturated with allusions to biblical figures, biblical stories, and
biblical themes, obviously Adam, Noah, Moses, Abraham, through to Jesus.
The temple is consistently the preeminent place of worship in the Bible story.
If you asked Abraham, where is the standing place of Abraham, the biblical Abraham, he
would have said, well, it's Mount Moria where I form the covenant with God.
If you asked Moses, where would the sacred place of prostration be?
He would say, it's the temple that we will build when we conquer Canaan.
If you asked Saul, David, Solomon, Zechariah, Ezekiel, Jesus, Mary, the apostles, all of
them, they would all say it's the Jerusalem temple.
The Quran introduces these figures, these stories, and then it asks you to understand
that the sacred place of worship is not the same place that they would all have recognized.
It's somewhere completely different, more than a thousand miles away, without ever giving
any clue that that's the case.
Secondly, the Quran praises Palestine as the land that we had blessed and the holy land.
It does that in two different contexts, in the context of Abraham and in the context
of Moses.
If you want the references, you have to read my article, I'll read the Quran.
Number three, the Quran accepts that the Jerusalem landscape will be the place where God will
pass judgment upon mankind.
And it does this preeminently by using the word Jahanam to refer to the Hellfire.
And Jahanam is an Arabist-sization of the Aramaic word Gehenna, which comes from the
valley of Hinnom, which is alongside Jerusalem.
My fourth argument is that the Quran's reference to the sacred place of worship, it describes
as my house, which is, I think, an allusion to the role of the Jerusalem Temple as God's
unique dwelling place on Earth in the Judeo-Christian tradition.
And I'll talk a little bit more about that as we go along.
Fifthly, the Quran refers to Mary being raised in the temple, and by so doing, plenty of
Muslims must wonder over the centuries, why is the Quran telling us this?
It isn't integral to the story.
The reason is that the Quran is adopting a Christian motif of Mary's womb being the
Ark of the New Covenant, just as the Ark of the Covenant had carried the tablets of
Covenant that God had made with the Israelites.
Just a quick question on that, is that something of a later Christian tradition?
Yes, it is.
There's an excellent article from 2015 by Gilam Di, a Belgian scholar in which he explores
this in some detail.
I will give you reference here, it's all in my article.
Sixthly, the words Mahamad, as it was probably originally pronounced, is used in the Quran
to indicate its prophet, but it also be called the Hebrew words Mahamad and Mahamadim, which
are used in the book of Ezekiel and in the book of Song of Songs, respectively, in order
to allude to the Jerusalem temple.
Ezekiel is told that the temple will be destroyed and his wife will die, and both are referred
to with the word Mahamad.
And then in the Song of Songs, the Shulamite bride is describing her dream lover, and she
refers to it as Mahamadim, but it's clearly a metaphor for the Jerusalem temple.
So the words Mahamad has a biblical heritage as being a term to refer to the Jerusalem
temple, not a coincidence.
Seventhly, at several points, the Quran draws upon a Christian text known as the Cave of
Treasures, most particularly in the story of the angels bowing down to Adam and Iblis
refusing to bow.
And in particular, it uses the actual words of the fallen angel in the Cave of Treasures.
Why should I bow to a man who's made out of clay when I am made of fire?
These words are from the Cave of Treasures.
The core theme of the Cave of Treasures is the centrality of the Jerusalem temple, not
just within the Bible, but to all the associated stories as well, where the Bible doesn't
link it to Jerusalem.
So, for example, with Adam and Eve and with Noah and with Melchizedek, the Cave of Treasures
try to link all these people to Jerusalem.
Why would the Quran quote from this book if it wasn't trying to honor Jerusalem?
The Quran's reference to the sacred place of prostration as the Makam Ibrahim, the Makami
Ibrahim, alludes to the story in Genesis 22 of the testing of Abraham on Mount
Moriah, which was in the Bible, the site of the future Jerusalem temple.
The Quran's instruction to believers to pray towards the sacred place of prostration in
Surah 2, according to biblical instructions that Jews should pray towards the Jerusalem
temple.
Several aspects of the Quran's Hajj pilgrimage, including its name, alludes to the Jewish
Hajj pilgrimage feasts which were held at the temple.
There were three great pilgrimage feasts and these have the same features as well as the
same name as the Quranic pilgrimage, such as animal sacrifice, circumambulation, the
bearing of plants, wreaths, plants, and the pausing enroute to the valley of Bakka.
Number 11, the shaving of one's head at the sacred place of prostration is referred to
twice in the Quran and this we call the Nazirite oath of Numbers 6, where the person who takes
the Nazirite oath on the completion of their oath should go to the temple and shave their
hair off within the temple.
So that's another reference to Jerusalem temple.
Number 12, almost halfway through, the reference that Surah 2, verse 158, going back and forth
between Saffa and Mawa, I will say alludes to the route across the Kidron Valley between
Mount Saffa, which is an archaic name for the peak of the Mount of Olives, and Mount
Moria, which is a location of the temple.
The reference to the sacred place of prostration as the Kaaba alludes to the fact that the
holy of holies of the Jerusalem temple was cube shaped.
The reference in Surah 83 to the books of the pious being stored at Ilyin, which is rarely
translated into Korean translations, it's normally treated as a proper name, it's in
fact an allusion to Isaiah chapter 4.
Then he was left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem would be called holy.
All those who are inscribed for life in Jerusalem.
And I will explain not today, but in my article I explained why that is the case.
One of my favorite points, Surah 105 is allusion to how God dealt with the companions of the
elephant, is an allusion to the book of Maccabees, the second and third book of Maccabees, which
involves a failed attack upon Jerusalem involving elephants.
And here I draw upon Daniel Beck and his book, The Evolution of the Early Qur'an.
Number 16, the night journey of Surah 17.
When read in this context, presents this journey as God's removal of his servant from Jerusalem.
It's not a journey to Jerusalem, it is an escape from Jerusalem before it is destroyed.
And that will, my argument there involves, again looking at an article by Daniel Beck,
and it involves the words, Azra, which is used for the night journey, which is always
used in the Qur'an to refer to a rescuing a prophet before the destruction of the people
who had rejected his message.
So that's the way that that word is always used in every other context, but it's not
his message.
So that's the way that that word is always used in every other context in the Qur'an.
And I would say that that's the word, the way the word is being used here.
Number 17, the Qur'an's instructions to its audience to expel their enemies from where
they have themselves been expelled, according to the longstanding exclusion of the Jews from
the Temple Mount by Rome, then Byzantium, and the exclusion of the expulsion of Jews
from Jerusalem by the Sasanians in 614.
Number 18, Saurah 5 is worded specifically to recall the Israelite entry into Canaan,
and this is where I would say that Muhammad was deliberately creating this Saurah to prepare
his followers to enter into Palestine, exactly as Moses had done thousands of years earlier.
Several 7th century sources describe Muhammad campaigning in Palestine in the 630s.
Number 20, the Qur'an conspicuously fails to mention Jesus.
For the vast majority of its text, it's only about 13 Saurahs that mention Jesus.
I would argue that the Qur'an's adoption of Jesus as a Qur'anic prophet is late but extensive,
and it indicates that his community was towards the end of the composition of the Qur'an,
now occupying land with a Christian population, and Christianity had to be incorporated in some way into the Qur'anic message.
Saurah 19 contains evidence that its author was familiar with the Church of the Catisma,
which is located just three miles from Jerusalem.
So the author of Saurah 19 probably had Jerusalem literally within his sight as he was writing those words,
and here I draw upon an article by Stephen Shoemaker Christmas in the Qur'an.
Number 22, there were reasons to believe that the Qur'an author died before his forces had conquered Jerusalem.
Again, I'm adopting Shoemaker's work.
Saurah 9, which is the only Saurah that refers to its audience as being in occupation of the Masjid al-Haram,
is conspicuously lacking in cohesion and has no Bismillah.
It is the only Saurah of the Qur'an that does not begin by saying that it is issued in the name of God,
and I would say that this is because it was composed after the Qur'an author's followers had seized Jerusalem after the death of their prophet.
And finally, the last three.
Only two near contemporaneous accounts of the Arab conquest of Jerusalem, there are only two,
and both of them refer to the conquerors immediately commencing building work,
you might say religious building works upon the Temple Mount on the site of the Old Temple.
Jerusalem is frequently cited with particular reverence in Islamic writings,
including as the Olfalnos, the naval of the world, and as Al-Quds, the holy.
And finally, coins were minted by the early Islamic conquerors,
featuring the Bismillah over a representation of the Minora symbolizing that it was the Jerusalem Temple
that they wanted to take as the symbol of their new empire,
nothing at all to do with Mecca and a rectangular structure down in the south.
Those are some fun future shows.
I wanted to get that off my chest.
I know it's a bit of a rigmarole,
but I wanted to see the scope of how many arguments one can bring,
one can marshal in order to advance the Jerusalem thesis.
There really is a mountain of evidence.
And whenever anyone tells me, oh, my article's too long, which it is a very long article,
I just wanted to put everything down that I had in mind.
I didn't want to shortchange anyone or hold anything back that I had.
But it's very difficult to summarize this colossal quantity of material.
And so today you're going to take us into only four specific, very detailed of those arguments?
And if this was a little bit dry so far, I should congratulate anyone who's got this far.
I'll try and illustrate it with some more fun graphics and color because I love my PowerPoint.
Yeah, I don't know how this could be dry personally.
I mean, it's really fascinating to think about finding out in early Islam,
what if Jerusalem was the whole thing?
And it was later, later leaders of the movement that pushed it down south
for whatever political reason, for whatever other reasons, we might get into those.
But you get the point.
I hope to convince you and convince everyone else that by the end of this presentation,
that it is all about Jerusalem.
It's always been about Jerusalem.
Jerusalem is the center of the Bible and the Bible story.
And it's still the center of Islam and Judaism and Christianity to this day.
Jerusalem is where the action is at.
And really very little has happened in Mecca.
It's even within the Islamic world.
They've never had a legal school down there.
Uthman never sent one of his manuscripts there.
It's never had a strong role in Islamic history.
Everything has taken place in and around Jerusalem, more in the north than Northern Arabia.
Yeah, I'm excited.
Let's see what you have for us.
Okay.
I want to start off by looking at the House of God.
In the Bible, particularly in the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible,
it's not using the phrase the House of God loosely to indicate that this is a building that's dedicated to prayer.
These days, we might talk about a church or a chapel or even, I don't know, a temple or a shrine or any sort.
And say, oh, how dare you do that in a House of God?
Show a bit of respect.
In the Jerusalem temple in the House of God in a much more specific, unique way.
This is the place where God dwells on earth.
So it starts off with God's presence in the Ark of the Covenant.
In the book of Exodus, chapter 25, the Lord says to Moses, tell the Israelites to bring me an offering and so on.
And he says, and then describes the Ark of the Covenant that he wanted people to build.
And he says, then have them make a sanctuary for me that I may dwell amongst them.
May this tabernacle and its furnishings exactly like the pattern that I will show you.
So when God tells the Israelites to create this fantastic golden, richly decorated chest with the cherubs and so on,
he does it as a place that I will dwell among them.
This golden chest is the dwelling of God amongst the Israelites.
And when they take this Ark of the Covenant, a few chapters later and the Israelites have created it and they carry it into the tabernacle in the wilderness.
And there's a theophany.
There's a great metaphysical experience as God becomes real, becomes manifest within this sacred place.
So I just read this little quote from the last chapter of the book of Exodus.
Then the cloud covered the meeting tent and the glory of the Lord filled the dwelling.
Moses could not enter the meeting tent because the cloud settled upon it and the glory of the Lord filled the dwelling.
Whenever the cloud rose from the dwelling, the Israelites would set out upon their journey.
But if the cloud did not lift, they would not go forward.
In the daytime, the cloud of the Lord was seen over the dwelling, where by night fire was seen in the cloud by the whole house of Israel in all the stages of their journey.
And I've got a little picture that I've downloaded from some Christian site showing the reality, the manifest of God's presence amongst the Israelites as it is described in the Torah.
Then when the Israelites enter into Canaan, they then build the temple.
Solomon builds the temple on land that's been bought by David.
And the same thing happens again.
This is the point where in two chronicles, chapter five, where the Ark of the Covenant is ceremonially placed within the temple that the Israelites have built for it.
When the trumpeters and the singers were heard as a single voice, praising and giving thanks to the Lord.
And when they raise the sound of the trumpets, cymbals and other musical instruments to give thanks to the Lord for He is good, for His mercy endures forever.
The building of the Lord's temple was filled with a cloud.
The priests could not continue to minister because of the cloud since the Lord's glory filled the house of God.
And then Solomon said, the Lord intends to dwell in the dark clouds.
I have truly built you a princely house and dwelling where you may reside forever.
So for somebody reading the Bible and taking it very seriously, these are very physical, very real descriptions.
The house of God means something very specific.
It's not a general term.
Thereafter, the Bible contains dozens, many dozens of references to the Jerusalem temple as being the house of God or the house of the Lord or some similar phrase.
In particular, particularly the Psalms, a whole series of Psalms are dedicated to pilgrimages to the house of God.
But in particular, I single out Isaiah chapter 56 verse 7.
Then I will bring, this is God speaking, I should say, then I will bring everyone who keeps my commandments to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer.
For my house shall be called house of prayer for all people.
And this is the passage that is quoted by Jesus in all three of the Synoptic Gospels.
My house shall be called a house of prayer.
And we've got this reference to the Jerusalem temple very clearly throughout the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament as being the house of God.
Not one of many house of gods, but the particular house of God.
This carries on into the New Testament in the Gospel of Luke when he talks about Zachariah, who being announced that he is going to be the father of John the Baptist.
He refers to him as being a priest of the temple and it says, as it came to pass a while he, meaning Zachariah, executed the priest's office before God.
So the New Testament seems to accept that God remains in the temple.
By that stage, of course, the Ark of the Covenant has long disappeared, but God still uses the Jerusalem temple as his dwelling place on earth.
Later on in the chapter in the Gospel of Luke.
Now, when the days of, so what are we talking about here?
This is about the presentation of Jesus to the temple.
Now, when the days of her purification according to the Lord's of Moses were completed, they, which means Mary and Joseph, brought him, meaning Jesus, to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord.
So the Gospel writers, certainly Luke is still treating the temple as being God's house on earth.
This, of course, for Christians comes to an end with the death of Jesus in which we seals the New Covenant.
And this is in the Gospel of Matthew symbolized that when Jesus cried out again in a loud voice and gave up his spirit.
At that moment, the curtain in the sanctuary of the temple was torn into from top to bottom.
And this symbolizes that we now have a new covenant and we no longer need for Christians the old covenant, which was based around the temple.
God now has is present amongst all of us.
We are all the temple of the Holy Spirit now.
So how does this relate to the Quran?
The Quran refers to this place, a sacred place of prostration as the sacred house, the haram house.
It also in two places refers to it as the ancient house.
Then refers to it twice.
Significantly, I would say as my house in the divine voice.
So talking as God, it talks about my house, precisely the same phrase that Isaiah uses in chapter 56.
It also talks about the first house created from mankind at backer and also refers to it as the house or this house at several other points.
And this, if I may just to point out, and I don't want to get stuck because there's so much here to unpack.
This is exactly one of the issues I see recently.
We had Muslim callers where I had them interact and they wanted to argue that this is the Kaaba.
And they want to say that this is down in Arabia and they're arguing that this house is back then in Abraham.
But there's no precedence for it anywhere in the Bible.
And so it's like one of those unfalsifiable claims they want to try and make that I was trying to point out.
Like, what do you mean?
But this is your point.
You're building up great connections here to say, my house, this house, all you have to do is read the biblical narrative.
You'll see from an Abrahamic perspective why this house was always Jerusalem.
And even if there are disputes about Mount Garazim and Jerusalem between Samaritans and Jews, the central house focus is Jerusalem.
And you're just continuing it showing that this is what is going on in the Quran.
I know you like your 20th century or modern analogies because I like your ones about the hippies and so on.
It is as though you found a musical, let us call it Hamilton or something.
And it talks about George Washington and Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln and then make several references to events happening in the house.
The obvious assumption would be that it's talking about the White House.
I assume, oh no, it must refer to a building in Mexico.
It simply makes no sense.
It talks about Solomon.
It talks about David.
It talks about Jesus, Zachariah and so on.
And then it keeps talking about the house.
Of course it's talking about the house of God that they would have recognized.
I would argue.
Great analogy.
I would sing a lot in particular.
I should not read it all out.
But Surah 2 verses 125 to 127 are a critical section of the Quran, the Abrahamic segment.
This is absolutely critical.
Surah 2 is a great manifesto, sometimes called the little Quran.
And it starts off talking about the state of humanity verses 1 to 39.
And then talks about the covenant that God made with the Israelites from verse 40 through to 123.
And how the Israelites and the children of Israel had broken their covenant with God again and again and again.
And then it tells us about the new covenant, the new covenant, the new dispensation that God was bringing into effect with the Muslims, with those who were obedient to God's word.
And it starts off with this section in which it places the children of Ishmael right at the center of the covenants.
And it has Ishmael and Abraham making a pledge or responding to God's command that they should purify my house.
We made a covenant with Abraham and Ishmael purify my house for those who circumambulate, for those who retreat, for those who bow and prostrate.
And later on it says, I'm when Abraham and Ishmael were raising the foundations of the house.
So I would say this is all of reference to Abraham building up the power to sacrifice Isaac on.
Ishmael is in the Quran given a front row seat at this moment in history.
And Ishmael is seen as being part of this same covenant in which Isaac was the sacrificial lamb.
And Ishmael and Abraham and Abraham's asks for a prophet to rise up from his and Ishmael's descendants.
Okay.
If there was any doubt about it, let's have a look at the word Shikina.
Now, the word Shikina is a rabbinic word.
I don't think it actually appears in the Bible itself, but it's a word that is used later on in the rabbinic writings in the Talmud.
And so on to refer to God's presence on Earth.
Literally, it means the dwelling, but it can use in various contexts, but in particular, in relation to God's presence as a pillar of cloud or flame with the Israelites in the wilderness.
In particular, as God dwelling in the Ark of the Covenant or in the temple.
And the word that the Talmud uses for this is Shikina, meaning the dwelling.
Do we find this word in the Quran?
Yes, we do.
The Quran uses various words that come from this route.
But in particular, I would single out six times in which it uses this word at Sakina or Sikhanatum or some variation upon that.
Now English translators often refer to it as tranquility or calm.
And it seems in some of these contexts to be a emotional state that God sends down upon his righteous servant.
So if they're in a battle, God sends down his tranquility upon them.
When Moses and Abu Bakr are supposedly hiding in a cave, God sends down his tranquility upon them.
But I would say this is a mistranslation.
I would say this is a clear cognate of the word Shikina, meaning God's presence.
God sends his presence down upon them, not tranquility or calm.
It is actually the presence of God himself.
And in particular, I would refer to Surah 2, verse 248.
Has sound not seen the assembly of the children of Israel after Moses when they said to a prophet of theirs,
raise up a king for us that we may fight in the way of God?
He said, might it be that we that were fighting prescribed for you, you would not fight?
And they said, why would we not fight in the way of God having been expelled from our homes and away from our children?
Then when fighting was prescribed to them, they turned back, save a few amongst them.
God knows well the wrongdoers.
So this is a scene in which God is addressing the children of Israel through Moses or in the presence of Moses
when they're about to enter into the Promised Land and the Israelites are reluctant or afraid to go in.
And this is jeeing them up, or jeeing up the grand's audience, not to be cowardly and not to be afraid like the Israelites were
and to go and trust in God and go out and fight and capture Canaan or Palestine.
247, their prophet, I think this is clearly a reference to Samuel, not mentioned in, not named in the Quran,
but clearly this is Samuel, their prophet said to them, truly God raised up Saul for you as king.
They said, how shall he have sovereignty over us?
Well, we have more right to sovereignty than he, there's some conversation there.
And then 248, and their prophet Samuel said to them, truly the sign of his sovereignty shall be that the ark will come to you
bearing, and here my translation says tranquility,
but it's the actual word using the Quran is sakinatum,
from your Lord and a remnant left by the house of Moses and the house of Aaron, born by the angels.
Truly in that is a sign for you, if you are believers.
So here the Quran takes sakinah and relates it specifically to the Ark of the Covenant.
There's no other possible interpretation of this.
The references to Saul and the entering into the prophet Samuel and the entering into the covenant into Canaan may make it quite clear.
And this isn't a gift like the gifts of the Holy Spirit, like courage or fortitude or patience or tranquility that you might send down to a faithful servant
in the course of a battle.
This is something sent down to something inanimate.
It is translated here as the Ark.
So God sending something down to the Ark.
And what is it?
They use the word sakinah, which is the Arabic cognate from the Hebrew word shekinah,
which is used in the Talmud to refer to the presence of God.
It seems to me this is the Quran completely and unambiguously committing itself to the idea that God was present in some unique special way in the Ark of the Covenant.
And once one's established that, then it's a very small step to say that when they place the Ark of the Covenant in the temple,
that God became present in the temple as well, and that became his home inevitably.
If I may just so everybody knows, in case you aren't aware of the context of the Bible here, because the Quran seems to have you assume readers,
you already know this, or at least you've heard these stories.
Every single one of these examples here, there is, like he said, the Ark of the Covenant.
And God's glory, if you will, God's shekinah, whatever, is in the Covenant.
His presence is there as they're going to fight, as they go to conquer the lands of Canaan, as they go here or there.
And in King Saul's case, with the Philistines, there's all sorts of crazy stuff that go on.
In one case, the Philistines steal the Ark of the Covenant, and their God, Dagon, ends up prostrating before the Ark.
So there's this battle amongst the gods.
There's a lot of context. If you don't know your Bible, you probably won't know the Quran.
And I can't imagine just asking you, Paul, before we move forward, how many Muslims do you think who've read this today,
that have really no clue of the original context from the Bible, because they're told,
ah, that's the corruptible book, that's not the real, but they can't even know the context ultimately behind this,
because they can't, typically, they're not reading the Bible.
It is amazing. One of the most amazing aspects of Islam and the way it's turned out is the refusal to read the Bible,
despite the Quran itself, it couldn't be more obvious that you've got to read the Torah if you're going to understand this.
You've got to know the Christian story if you're going to understand this.
It refers to it again constantly.
And the idea of somebody reading this and not reading the Bible is just incredible.
You're closing your eyes to the very thing that the Quran is constantly telling you to open your eyes to.
So it's a great mystery why, in every mosque, they don't have the Old Testament, the New Testament,
and the Quran as a box set of three, as a trilogy, because that is clearly how the Quran author wanted this to be treated.
Exactly. Thank you.
So to summarize, a central theme of the Hebrew Bible is that God was uniquely present upon the earth in the Ark of the Covenant
and later in the temple that was built to accommodate the Ark of the Covenant.
The temple is repeatedly referred to in both the Hebrew Bible and more occasionally in the Gospel as God's house.
In rabbinic Judaism, a particular word, shekina, is adopted to refer to God's presence, including his presence in the Ark of the Covenant and the temple.
The Quran frequently alludes to Bible stories, including stories set in the temple, such as the upbringing of Mary or the announcement of a child to Zechariah.
The Quran frequently alludes to Bible stories, including stories set in the temple and involving figures closely associated with the temple, such as Jesus and Solomon.
It also uses the Arabic cognate of the word shekina, Sakina, to refer to something sent by God and born in the Ark of the Covenant.
The Quran frequently refers to a sacred place of prostration, which it twice has God describe as my house.
The Quran contains absolutely no indication that God had two houses, but God ever changed the location of his house, that the prior scriptures had ever made an ever over identifying the location of God's house.
I see no scope really for the interpretation of the Quran that Islam has put upon it.
On the contrary, as well as generally endorsing the Torah and the Jil, the Quran has, that's the Torah and the Gospels.
The Quran explicitly endorses the biblical account of God's presence in the Ark of the Covenant.
When the Quran refers to the sacred house or the ancient house or the holy house or the house of God, it's referring to the Jerusalem temple.
Oh, we're on the same page.
Hey, man, I guess.
Another little mystery, if anyone has a challenge out there.
What is, why is a carver the house of God?
The Quran talks about Abraham and Ishmael raising the foundations.
To me, that implies adopting the Latin maxim, Expresio Unius, Exclusio Alterius, that Abraham and Ishmael did not build the walls or the roof.
He wouldn't refer to them raising the foundations if they actually built the whole thing.
So who built the carver?
And more particularly, in what way is it the house of God?
In what way did God live there?
In what way is any story associated with it that might lead you to think that inside that stone brick cube, there was something relating to God that would make it the house of God.
As far as I can tell, it's an empty cube, it's got nothing inside, and it was never intended to have anything inside.
In what way was God supposed to be inside there?
I challenged any Muslim to explain why the carver could intelligently be called the house of God in the Quranic narrative.
Very interesting.
There are so many interesting questions about how this developed over time that I have, and why it became what it became.
The idea of circumambulating the house of God, or what they do with the Kaaba stone today, the square Kaaba.
You see this in Joshua, right?
It's clearly they're singing the trumpets, they're circling the cities and these things they do, and they do this with Jerusalem as well.
There are times where this happens.
I have heard some people say that that circumambulation is actually a pagan ritual.
But some people are trying to bring in the pagan aspect, they're trying to make this somehow pagan.
When you can find it in Abrahamic tradition and Abrahamic literature, I'm going to go with that first before I'm going to say something comes from outside of Abrahamic traditions.
Not saying it's not possible that there's some stuff, but it just makes me have some questions along the way, you know, that makes me think.
My background, just in the spirit of open disclosure, is that I'm a practicing Roman Catholic,
but I take a very realistic view to the Bible and to the related parabiblical texts.
To me, there's no inconsistency in saying that something might have been a pagan ritual, but also to have been adopted by the Israelites.
And they find its way into the Quran and getting respectability from being adopted.
To me, there's no surprise.
I think I was specifically referring to 7th century.
I'm 100% on board.
I think you would also acknowledge, since you're a practicing Roman Catholic, I'm not a man of faith anymore.
I'm very critical and I like to analyze stuff critically.
That doesn't mean I can't get in the sandbox and have fun and enjoy the literature and enjoy the genetic connections between these literature, all the stuff.
For me, going into the Mesopotamian Babylonian mythology behind the flood story in Noah, I love that.
I love this stuff.
I love discovering that.
And so when I look at the 7th century and I see, hey, they're circling this black stone and they call it the Kaaba, et cetera, and they call it circumambulation.
My question was simply, is that an older Israelite practice that they're reading and they're borrowing?
Or is it from the local pagan areas?
Could it be both?
Maybe it's both.
I don't know.
It makes me wonder.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
