Was Jesus a magician? Today I discuss this with Dr. Andrew Henry and we bring up Morton Smith's book
on Jesus the Magician. What he got right and maybe what he got wrong but there is early
depictions of Jesus with a wand as the thumbnail depicts and maybe there is some details that
make the implication that he may have been a miracle worker but what about this word magician?
Where does it come from? Take a deep dive with us.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I have a new setting. I'm in the process
of moving my home. Forgive me for the green background. I have a special guest today, Andrew
Henry, Dr. Andrew Henry. How are you my friend? I'm great. Thanks for having me.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to talk about magic and of course in the ancient world
we're going to be discussing some of Morton Smith's work on Jesus the Magician
and I must admit my ignorance on this part. I have not read his work but I am acquainted with
the concept and I know that you are thoroughly aware of his arguments and before we did this show
you said there are some good things and there are some bad things. For our channel, if you don't
mind, tell us what your background is and that way we understand that you know a thing or two and
we can proceed. Sure. I'm a scholar of early Christianity. I guess technically I'd say
late Roman religion because I study a little bit of late Roman Judaism,
Greco-Roman traditional religions, pagan cults. My focus is on magic and demonology
as we'll get into it. I use the word magic very loosely because it's one of those
impossibly difficult terms to describe. I got my PhD in religious studies from
Boston University focusing on those topics and I focus really on the materiality of religion.
That means the stuff that people use in their religious practice whether that's amulets or
curse tablets or one of my favorite objects is called an incantation bowl or a demon bowl
which are these clay bowls that people would inscribe incantations inside to try to trap demons
or to keep demons out of your household. The religious stuff, I'm not so much a textual
historian as much as I'm a little bit of anthropology, a little bit of archaeology
focusing on the materiality of religion. It looks like you've excavated a little in Athens as well
which is a fascinating place I love and I've been growing more suspicious towards the Greco-Roman
side of things when it comes to New Testament studies because I think it's a lacuna that can
be explored deeper. I think we have this concept in our mind that the Jews were so holy and so
separate that not even Hellenism was seeping out of their pores. I think we're starting to turn
the tables on this idea that Hellenism has seeped into every pore of all the Jews. Even the most
religious seem to have been impacted by the ideas of the Greco-Roman world, the empires that conquered
and were of course in charge. So as far as magic goes, let's get right into the deep end. I think
it's important to say Jesus is accused within the New Testament of casting out Beelzebub by the
power of Beelzebub. I mean, he sounds like what we would think non-religious people.
That's superstitious. That seems kind of magical, weird. What is this guy up to?
What is magic? I mean, do we even know what we're talking about here?
Yeah, so let's dial back a little bit and try to define what magic is. It comes from the Greek
word magia, which means the practices or art of the Magi, which were Persian religious functionaries.
They were actual priests who did priestly things like sacrifices, divination,
but very early in Greek history. So Herodotus, the famous Greek historian, as early as the
6th century BCE, Greeks were starting to talk about the Magi because there was this cultural
interchange with the Persians. And for some Greek authors, they were trying to be very
accurate and ethnographic, like, oh, the Magi do this, they do this. There's a whole story about one
Magi in his political machinations that Herodotus includes in his history. But other Greeks at the
same time were kind of exoticizing them. The Magi do uncanny things, they interpret dreams,
they do human sacrifice, they can cock poisons and weird spells. So from the very start, there was
kind of this exoticizing tendency to talk about who these Magi were. You dial forward to the Roman
period and this just takes off. Plenty of the elder who's this famous Roman geographer and historian
has this whole section on the art of the Magi. He's like, Magia, it's a bunch of charlatans,
it's a bunch of cheap tricks and evil tricks, and even ties it to the Zoroastrians. He's like,
Zoroaster was the first magician. So for him, he's using this word Magia and Magi in a very
specific sense. It's kind of exoticizing. It's even a little bit xenophobic, like those weird
Persians do weird stuff and we don't. But at the same time, the word is being used in a more
ethnographic sense. So famously, the Magi show up in the Gospel of Matthew, bringing gifts to
the young Jesus. And so those Magi are being cast in a very positive light, that these pagans from
far away were able to read the stars and see that this newborn baby is the king of the Jews.
So even in the Roman period, the term is still very squishy, but it's very much laden with
negative pejorative connotations. It's similar to what I found in my recent interview with Steve
Mason on the term zealot. And in fact, you think they're bad because Josephus paints these zealots
in such a negative light that the definition itself becomes derogatory over time in our modern
dictionaries. But in reality, it's just someone who has an extreme zeal for whatever it is. It
can be good or it can be bad. And so this idea of magic, it takes on that kind of connotation,
but are you suggesting that there is a time in which it didn't necessarily have a negative
pejorative and it ends up becoming that? Even in our earliest sources, so we're talking
6th century BCE. So really, far back in Greek history, it had parallel uses. So Herodotus seems
to use it in a very ethnographic sense. There's this one papyrus that kind of puts them in the
same ballpark as like charlatans and poisoners and stuff like that. So it has like a parallel
definition from the very start. And we see this go through the Roman period. So the Gospel Matthew,
I don't think Matthew seems to view them in a negative sense. Plenty the elder, definitely
negative sense. And then there's this other Greek philosopher, Kelsus, who famously attacks
Christianity, who calls Jesus a magus. And for him, that means cheap trickster, someone who
leverages the power of demons. So it's very much a parallel usage. But I would say the overarching
usage is pejorative. Like, if you're a Greek or a Roman, you don't want to call yourself a magus.
And as far as I know, there's never a self, nobody ever self defines as a magus is usually a term
of accusation. So Simon magus is this other famous character, he shows up in the book of acts as this
worker of magia. But then these apocryphal gospels and apocryphal acts in the following centuries,
Simon magus becomes like the arch nemesis of the apostle Peter and the apostle Paul, he does all
sorts of demon possessed miracles. So, you know, so Simon magus, you know, that's the term of
accusation, he is a magus. And by magus, we mean not a Persian religious functionary and ethnographic
sense, we mean an evil demon user of illegitimate ritual. So basically, it becomes a cipher for
illegitimate ritual. And you can kind of see the problem there, who decides what's legitimate or
illegitimate, you know, this is not a academic term, this is a term of accusation, very much like a
term like apostate, you know, it's a term that you'd use against your theological rivals.
It makes me go back to the opening of Morton Smith's book, where he actually points out in group
outgroup. And he's, would you say he's correct on this approach that it's this kind of in group
outgroup demonizing, so to speak, and that that's a proper approach. So Jesus to a Christian would be
Jesus, the Son of God, Jesus to Calces would be Jesus, the magician or the charlatan or something
to that effect. Yeah, so for that, I would agree. I think magia as a term becomes a bucket into which
you throw it illegitimate ritual. Okay, that person does magia, that person does magia, we don't do
magia though. And sometimes like the rituals they're throwing into that bucket look exactly the same
as what you're doing, but just in a different valence. So one of the most interesting Christian
writers, in my opinion, is the Bishop of Antioch, John Chrysostom, who was a Bishop of Antioch in
the fourth century. He published bunches and bunches of homilies, you know, sermons he was giving
in his Basilica. And he has these great sermons against amulets, so little talisman you'd wear
as a necklace or in your pocket to protect you from sickness or demons. And he's like, you know,
those silly people wearing coins with the face of Alexander the Great on them, you know, as an
amulet, you know, how dare they put their trust in a Greek king when you could put your trust in
the king of everything, you know, Jesus Christ. He makes fun of people using gospel amulets,
so taking a little scrap of the gospels and wearing them as necklaces, he's like, that's
stupid, this is silly, don't do that. But then like a few sermons later, he's like, if you ever go to
a demon infested place, make sure you do the sign of the cross over your forehead, because that will
protect you from demons. And I'm like, what's the functional difference? It's a ritual to protect you
from demonic invasion versus, you know, the person wearing a coin with Alexander the Great's
face on it, it's a ritual meant to protect you from malevolent forces, sickness, like they're
both protective ritual. But for John Chrysostom, one of those is magia, and one of those is good
legitimate sanctioned ritual. So we immediately see this very complicated dichotomy between magia
as illegitimate ritual, and then anthropologists and historians who want to use magic as a category
that we can use an anthropological study. And some academics are like, you know, this term is just
too, too messy, it's too wrapped up with ancient prejudice, that it's really not that useful of
a term. I still wrestle with this myself, I try to use terms that are much more precise, okay, we
have rituals for cursing, we have rituals for protection, we have rituals for healing. And
sometimes they look like an amulet, sometimes they look like somebody touching you, you know,
a lot of Jesus's healings take place with just laying on of hands. And these all are under the
bucket of healing rituals. As soon as you bring out that word magic, though, it's like, okay,
we're not talking about magia, though, every time you translate magia as magic, I think you're making
a bad translation, because you are not bringing all of that value laden pejorative connotations
into play. I try to translate it as sorcery, because even today in the 21st century, when we
say sorcery, we mean Voldemort, we don't mean Harry Potter, you know, we mean the bad ritual.
This is fascinating. I almost felt like with John of Chrysostom, while you were saying that,
it's like, yeah, and then cognitive dissonance sets in, I see the same problem, you know,
oftentimes you can watch people of certain faiths go and see the other positions to go,
how ridiculous, you need to be washed by the blood of Jesus, duh, and it's like,
my friend, I was with you, and then you kind of, I had to stop at this point. But I'm not here
to be anti-religious, I just figured it's a funny kind of an anachronism, because you're thinking,
John's kind of enlightened here, here's a rational man, and then, oh, so it's really
us versus them ideas. I want to take a quick second for everybody, you just did a video
on your YouTube channel about magic, Jesus the Magician in fact, can you tell us a little bit
about this video that you did? Sure, so I kind of touch on the same question that
Morton Smith addresses. So in the late 70s, Morton Smith, who was an ancient historian,
published a book called Jesus the Magician, and he argues basically that Jesus was a magician.
Part of his argument is that if you look at what he considers the earliest layers of the gospel,
you see hints of a Jesus that was primarily a miracle worker, primarily an exorcist,
and the stories that portray him as a rabbi and as a teacher are later additions,
and he makes this argument that there was this kind of vanguard defense to try to
repaint Jesus as more of a well-rounded rabbi and teacher and not just a miracle worker,
because that kind of trope of being a miracle worker is too easily thrown into that bucket
of magia and bigam magus. He uses examples like Kelsus, so the Greek philosopher in the second
century who portrays Jesus as a magician and as a somebody that's possessed by demons and works by
demons. Morton Smith points out examples like the so-called Beelzebile accusation. So in the
Gospels, Jesus is accused of casting out demons by the power of the king of demons Beelzebile,
and he's like, this shows that right during his ministry, he was being accused of this,
and then he makes this argument that Jesus was a magician.
I guess we can get into it right now, but my concern with Morton Smith,
let's start with what I agree with. What I agree with is that there is evidence of a
counter-narrative in the Gospels. The Gospel writers seem to be responding to accusations
leveraged against Jesus. I would say most New Testament scholars tend to agree that the Beelzebile
accusation is historical, that Jesus must have been accused of this, which would imply he might
have been doing some sort of exorcist, or at least was accused of being some sort of
cheap trickster, charlatan, magus, megas. Another great example is there are two miracles where
Jesus uses spit. This is in the Gospel of Mark, where there's a blind man in the town of Bessida
who comes out to Jesus and they're like, hey, heal this blind guy. So Jesus spits, puts some mud
together with the spit, puts it on the guy's eye, and it only heals him halfway. Jesus is like,
oh, can you see? And then the guy's like, well, not really. The people look like they're walking
around like trees, so Jesus tries again. And it's kind of this gritty, literally earthy ritual.
It's kind of gross, and it doesn't sound like the sort of miracles we usually see in the Gospels.
Jesus usually says something if they're rotatively, and stuff happens, you know,
peace be still, and the Sea of Galilee stops. He touches people, they're healed. Why does he need
to use spit and mud? And lo and behold, Matthew and Luke, which most scholars agree were written
later, and incorporated a bunch of Mark into their Gospel narratives, cut out the spit and mud
miracles. Why would they do that? Mark Goodecker, the New Testament scholar who I think you've
had on the show before, at least I've heard you talk about him. Mark Goodecker says it's because,
you know, Matthew was kind of grossed out by this ritual, or the story, and he wanted Jesus
to be more divine, more ethereal, you know, not so gritty as using spit and mud in your miracles.
So there's, insofar as Morton Smith argues that there's this counter-narrative of Jesus being
accused of certain things, we can kind of read between the lines that, okay, there was
this effort to try to make Jesus seem a little more refined in the later Gospels.
Another thing I agree with Morton Smith is that there's really, what's the difference between a
miracle and a work of magic? If we're trying to use the word magic in a very anthropological sense,
you know, I use the example of Jedi in Star Wars as an example, because they do things that are
unexplainable, like jumping really high, running really fast, making things float, and then the
bad guy, the Sith, do the exact same thing. So one's illegitimate and one's legitimate, one's
evil, one's not. But functionally, they don't look any different. So when you look at, like,
early apocryphal acts with Simon Magus, Simon Magus does miracles. He starts flying, he creates,
he has, like, demons come do his bidding, and he kind of does it just by saying it,
in the same way that Jesus just says stuff and it happens. So functionally, there's no real difference.
It's a speech act that's done in the moment, or it's a gesture, like touching somebody,
but for Simon Magus, that's evil, for Jesus, it's not. One's magic, one's miracle. And
Morton Smith is like, okay, these are more, these are, these are not anthropological terms,
they're actually kind of value-laden terms tied up with their own preconceptions of what we think
a work of wonder-working should look like. So I use this term, thaumaturgeal performance,
instead of miracle or magic. Thaumaturgy, just meaning wonder-working. It's just a very
boring academic way to say something that is very uncanny, very supernatural, very unexplainable.
Simon Magus does thaumaturgy, Jesus does thaumaturgy. Some people call that magic,
some people call that miracle, depending on your own biases. So those two things in particular,
there's a counter-narrative that we can kind of read, kind of glean through the Gospels,
and the difference between magic and miracle is, is subjective.
Are two things that I would agree with Morton Smith.
I really like how you kind of took it out and then parsed it like that, so people can
really get a grasp of what you're trying to say. As far as this idea of
they're doing some type of miracle working, I know we can't, we don't have a time machine,
we can't see what they were really probably doing. But when I look at modern examples in the Third
World countries that are kind of like duping many believers, I think they're duping a lot of them,
using these things to take advantage of people, to control people, you name it.
If we were to, let's say we're taking a completely natural approach here,
a historical methodology, you can't prove a miracle, right? So we go back and we're looking
at what may have been going on on the ground to some degree. Maybe Jesus isn't the best example,
but we can look at surrounding examples that aren't so theological and protected by the bubble of
religious zealous people. What would you think we're looking at? I mean, we see people in Third
World countries, for example, I've been told, let me use one example, Jesus turns water into wine.
I personally read that and see that more literary, even though there may have been jars with
multiple compartments in it where they had holes they could cover and they could pour out water,
and then in second, they could pour out wine. I mean, you can invent some sort of way that
it could have been done. Right. Yeah. I just think that's more literary in John, and I think it's
probably something of a jab at Dionysian concepts, in my opinion, but either way, I think Dennis
McDonald's probably onto something there in the Gospel of John on this whole Euripides and other
things. But what are we looking at? Are these people like what we're seeing in Third World
countries who are getting really superstitious people, or maybe that's a bad way of putting it,
these people who are prone to, they want to believe in something beyond, and they don't
understand rational thought the way that people with education do, what do you think is going on
with Jesus and these other people? Yeah. I don't think we need to look to developing nations,
for example, look at exorcisms in the United States, look at faith healers in the United States.
There's this, I think his name is Bob Larson or something. He's a YouTuber who does
public exorcisms and then posts videos of it, and he's just doing the, I don't know where he is,
but he's in the US somewhere. I think that's something that might point to what Jesus might
have been doing, these public faith healings, and it's a very social psychological experience.
This Bob Larson fellow, he might be a charlatan, but I don't think every Christian doing
exorcists in the United States or elsewhere are charlatans necessarily. They believe demons exist,
they believe demons can possess you, and you kind of get this social psychological
experience in the church, like, okay, we know how we should act when demons are around,
we should know what we should say, so the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu calls this
habitus. We know the habit, we know how to act because we've kind of had this shared sense of
how we should treat demons because of our religious beliefs, because of our religious texts,
you know, so much into that. What I would say in brief is that magician is not a social category
in the Greco-Roman period, at least in an anthropological sense. If you go back in time with
to interview some Greco-Roman person, nobody's out there calling themselves a magician.
There are people out there that are scribes that make magical texts, like the Greek magical
papyri. There are amulet workers and metalsmiths that create amulets out of metal, out of bronze,
out of silver. There are gem workers, so some of the coolest objects and
ritual objects from the Greco-Roman period are these magic gems. They're like tiny,
they're super small, with these highly intricate drawings of Canubis or other Greco-Roman deities
that you would have worn as on a ring or on a necklace or in your pocket, and that's not an
easy thing to make. That is a highly specialized, those are created by highly specialized workshops,
so this bifurcation between the educated masses or the uneducated masses and the educated masses,
that's not happening at least in antiquity because you have these highly skilled craftsmen
making these objects. Let's use an example. One of my favorite amulets, I call the Alexandra
Amulet. It dates to about the fourth century. It's from Lebanon, so modern-day Beirut is where
it was discovered. It's very lengthy. It's this 37 centimeter long piece of silver.
You can see creases on the silver, so we know it was rolled up. My hunch is it was rolled up and
put into a little casket that was around your necklace because we see examples of this from
the Greco-Roman period. It says something along the lines of Protect Alexandra, whom Zoe bore,
protector from demons and sorcery and dizziness. Then it very interestingly says protector from
male demons. To me, it's kind of the sexualized amulet that I believe two parents bought for
their daughter Alexandra. Maybe a teenage daughter, protector from sexual advances,
protector from curse tablets that uses the term binding spells, which are these lead curse tablets
that the Greeks and the Romans used. Then it lists like 25 archangels. By the power of so-and-so,
protect Alexandra. By the power of so-and-so, then 25 angels, then it says by the power of
Lord Sabayyoth, the god of Isaac and Abraham and Jacob, protect Alexandra.
Who in fourth century Eastern Mediterranean cities knew 25 archangels at the top of their head?
Somebody that's highly literate, probably a priest, monk, bishop. Who knows liturgical
phrases like the god of Abraham, the god of Isaac, bishops, priests, monks? I believe that the formula
was created by some sort of Christian functionary, religious functionary,
probably some sort of monk or bishop. The metal itself is expensive, it's silver.
So this is not some poor person that's just scraping together some sort of wax or papyrus
amulet, which we also see. It's like this family heirloom almost, probably made by a silversmith.
So you see like a marketplace, we could call like a magical marketplace that required
some sort of religious functionary, probably some sort of Christian priest,
some sort of silver worker, and then two wealthy parents who wanted to buy
the ultimate protective amulet for their daughter.
So nothing in that description of this object has to do with magician. We have a priest,
we have a silver worker, and we have a wealthy couple, one of which is named Zoe, whom Alexandra
Boer. So when I say that magician is not a social role in antiquity, I'm saying it's not a job
title. The job title of people who did magic back then was scribe, priest, rabbi, and so forth.
So they're like actual social roles, some of which required a bunch of training.
And when we deploy the word magic or magician, I'm afraid that we're
dipping into the world of folklore and not the world of anthropology. So we do have folkloric
people like Medea, who kills Jason's sons in Greek mythology, people like Cersei, who turns
Odysseus and his crew into pigs. These are like sorceresses. We could use the word magicians
for them, but they're not real people that are literary figures versus this very real person
who sat down and made a silver amulet for Alexandra, who never once would have said,
I am doing magia right now, but I'm protecting her from magia, even though it's a magical object
and amulet. There's so many things to kind of dig into here that I find fascinating about what you
said. My exploration in the Gospels and researching like Dennis McDonald and other academics who take
this Homeric Greek approach and saying, these authors are highly literate. To learn Greek,
they had to be taught. They knew Homer. They knew these things not only from the literate
approach, but in society at large and the plays and the acts. And so they're probably aware of
this. And like you said, with Cersei, turning them into pigs, I've seen him make an interesting
case that Jesus obviously casting out these demons or by the man Mount Gerizim, the demoniac at
Gerasim. Yeah. Am I even saying that right? I keep getting the name there wrong. You know
who I'm talking about. The Legion, yeah. Yeah. So you cast the demons into the pigs and of course,
the pigs running into the water that there's probably some literary memesis here. And it makes
me wonder if when Morton Smith was writing his book, that was he factoring in this as probably
literary and not actually happening on the ground rather than being it almost seems like his approach
was somewhat of a rationalist approach. Whereas we're dealing with folklore in a sense or legend.
And so is that fine line between legend and this amulet to use your analogy, like Jesus would
have been a real guy who would have been really probably doing stuff like the amulet concept.
But the trope, the written text that we have is more in the line of legend and folklore in a sense.
I guess using it analogy. Yeah. I would agree with you. He goes out of his way to make
many different scenes in the gospel narratives be magical. Like I use the term parallelomania.
Like he's just finding parallels everywhere in a way that I find kind of sloppy. So let's
switch to how I view the things I disagree with Morton Smith. I view him as being kind of sloppy
with both theory and method. So in academics, theory refers to being really precise with your
concepts and your definitions. Now, what do you mean by magic? What do you mean by religion?
If you're doing a work on, I don't know, some sort of gospel genre, you'd be very precise about what
do you mean by biography? Like it's sometimes the most boring part of academic work, but it's
one of the most important parts. Morton Smith constantly aligns or casually switches between
magia and the English word magic. The Greek word magus and the English word magician just
constantly switches between the two in a way that I find casual and a way that I find a little bit
irresponsible because the Greek magical papyri, no Egyptian priest would have said, hey, I'm doing
magia right now. As we modern people calling those magical papyri, even things like translating
certain words in a more magical sense could throw off our analysis. So you have the Greek word praxis,
which just means procedure. And some of these historians throughout the 20th century were
translating that as spell. Here's the spell. Here's the praxis. And it's just procedure. So as soon
as you use that word spell, you are you are biasing your audience. So he goes out of his way to
use the word magician, even though he should be very careful about using the word untranslated,
in my opinion, magia or magus. The other problem is with his method. So method just refers to the
techniques that you use, the tools that you bring to the data. Are you translating an ancient text?
Are you analyzing an ancient object? So the problem with method, let's turn to the Greek
magical papyri. So the Greek magical papyri are a collection of texts from Greco-Roman Egypt,
dating from the Ptolemaic period. So 100 BCE, when Egypt was ruled by Ptolemy, the Ptolemy
dynasty, which followed Alexander the Great after Alexander conquered Egypt, all the way up to the
fourth and fifth centuries. So really late Roman Empire. And Martin Smith will do things like
the baptism of Jesus was a magical performance. This is when John the Baptist baptizes Jesus,
the dove comes down and settles on Jesus, and God proclaims Jesus has chosen one. And he says,
this is a magical performance for proof. Let me show you an example of a bird coming down from
heaven from the Greek magical papyri. And I look into it. And the one example he uses is called
Greek magical papyrus one, PGM one. And it dates to the third century. It's like 200 years after Jesus
was born. So PGM one is a third century text written by an Egyptian priest down in Thebes.
So hundreds and hundreds of miles away from the Galilee and 200 years after Jesus' life,
that would be like saying, you know, Shakespeare was influenced by, you know, French playwrights.
For an example, here's a French playwright from the 1900s, you know, hundreds of years after
Shakespeare. And you're like, how does that work? You're like retrojecting this 18th century text
back to 16th century literature in two different countries. So then on the next page, he's like,
here's another example from PGM four. PGM four is called The Great Magical Papyrus of Paris.
It's this huge handbook again written by an Egyptian priest that dates to the fourth century.
So an additional century after Jesus and a century after PGM one. So within two pages,
he's like, here's my proof, a third century Egyptian text and a fourth century Egyptian text
that are both centuries after Jesus, who was a first century Galilean, you know,
preacher slash wonder worker, possibly. And I think that's bad methodology. That's just like
using the wrong texts and the wrong data to kind of prove your point. You know, look for
data from first century Judean practice to try to figure out what Jesus might have been doing.
So sloppy theory, sloppy method, I think it, my opinion, and this is pretty harsh,
I think every single time you see him mention the magical papyri, just ignore it. It's just,
it's just very sloppy. But would you admit that there's probably a similarity to the idea
in the magical papyri? But would you say maybe it had its influence by then from Christianity at
this point? So really, like, I really like what you're saying here, because it, everyone likes to,
who is critical of Christianity, likes to say Christianity borrowed from everybody else,
they learned all this stuff from everybody else. And we know that's not true in many respects.
I'm not saying first century Christianity did not have stuff that used and borrowed, sure.
But I'm saying like, things went all directions, and Christianity made a huge impact. So by the
third and fourth century, to pretend that this magical papyri didn't have influence, probably
from Christianity, or we can't verify that, but it may look like Christian ideas in some sense.
Who's to say this isn't later, like you're saying. And really, it was, it was Shakespeare who
influenced the 19th century writing or whatever. So is there something contemporaneous to Christianity
that helps us better nail down what is happening? Is that's the difficult part, getting back to the
text and the reality, the amulet versus casting demons into pigs? Is there anything like the
spitting in the mud kind of puts a historical root there for what Jesus would have actually been?
Was he a hillar type? Or is that all part of the literary stuff? Do you think this guy was running
around? Kind of like what we're seeing is descriptions of Aspasion in the Serapian Temple
by Tacitus. And he's like, he literally stepped on a withered man's hand and cured him. And then
another one, he spits in the guy's eyes. If I'm not mistaken in his eyes or in his hand,
but I think it was in his eyes directly or something, the guy could see all of a sudden.
What in your research has kind of been your conclusion? Have you been drawn more toward
the literary? As these are like accolades saying, this guy, you know, he walked on water, man,
you know, what do you think's happening? I think overwhelmingly, I would be on the literary side.
I mean, first and foremost, this is where you interviewed Robin Faith Walsh on your channel
a few months ago, who has this wonderful book on the origins of early Christian literature.
She makes this argument that the Gospels are subversive biographies. They're meant to show
and portray Jesus as a subversive figure who can stand up to the Pharisees. He can stand up to the
Sadducees. He can stand up the Romans. Like that's the goal of the Gospels, to kind of, you know,
heroize and lionize Jesus. And so the vast majority of the miracles, I think, are literary
stories. I guess there's this little part of me that thinks, you know, it's very plausible for
him to have been this itinerant exorcist, because we do see some relatively contemporaneous sources
that talk about Jewish exorcists. There's this famous scene in Josephus, where there's this
Jewish exorcist in the court of Vespasian, exercising a demon from a man with a solomonic
ring. And it says like he has the ring under the guy's nostrils and like draws out the demon,
which I think is just so visceral and like very believable, because there's so much
solomonic magic. There are so many rings, you know, that were meant to protect or to, you know,
somehow leverage ritual power. So that's very believable. And then he also has some exorcisms
from the Dead Sea Scrolls that use Psalms. Psalm 91 is this very famous Psalm that's like,
that talks about dwelling in the defense of, you know, God the Almighty. Like,
it's this very defensive, protective sounding Psalm, which appears on amulets well into the
Byzantine period. So you have these, at least in the Christian era, like Christians would
take, they look kind of like bronze coins, and then have Psalm 91 inscribed around the
circumference of the coin. And then they would have like a little perforated hole that you could
wear as a necklace. So Psalm 91, these is the ultimate anti-demon formula from Second Temple
period Judaism all the way through late Roman Christianity. And you also have other Psalms
from the Dead Sea Scrolls that are basically like talking about keeping demons out of you.
So like, you can say with confidence that there was a robust world of Jewish exorcism
in the first century. Can we then make the next jump and say, therefore, Jesus was doing exorcisms?
Exorcisms, like, you know, I kind of punt on the issue. I think the strongest evidence would be the
beelisable accusation. Like, it is this kind of strident accusation that Jesus is filled with a
demon and he exercises by the power of demons. So if you say, okay, that's a legitimate accusation
that was leveraged against him during his lifetime, okay, maybe he was doing exorcisms.
But I think that's, I think one step beyond that I'm comfortable saying was definitely
happening. But I think it's plausible. Yeah, I think there's a plausibility as well. Like,
I've heard, I don't know if it's to Sefta or not, one of the Jewish writings earlier, of course,
than the Talmud, which would be late in the game. Here we are again, dealing with later stuff.
Using a really late text or retro, every, you know, I sometimes mention the Talmud as evidence too,
but like, I always am like, but this is not firm evidence. If we're talking about
second or first century Judaism, okay, this might be helpful. But if this is a seventh century
invention or a sixth century invention, then this is not useful data.
And that's the, that's one of the things I always want to say is be cautious. But if we're trying
to play, you know, with with blindfolds on in a sense and figure out and guess, there's supposedly
Dr. James D. Tabor told me that there were Jews casting out demons in the name of a man named
actually Yeshua Ben Pantera, like literally Jesus, Son of Panther, if you will. And
it wasn't done in a pejorative sense. So he said, like, you'll find mostly
pejorative terms used for this. He's the son of the Panther. And he doesn't think it's Parthenon,
a play on term Parthenon for virgin. He thinks this is probably a guy that they might be mocking
later. But early on, it's not used in a derogatory sense, he said in some of his writings. And they're
casting out demons in his name. And one of the people died in one of these texts, something
like that. Anyway, I'm ignorant on the source. I just wanted to bring it out like maybe there
were these practices going on. And the Gospels do have that situation where there's even supposedly
Pharisees running around like cast out demons in the name of Jesus and stuff. And now I think
that's more literary when we talk about we know who he is, but who are you, you know, like, yeah,
obvious. Yeah, we see that in the book of Acts, the sons of Sceva were exercising in the name
of Jesus, which I think, again, I don't know if the sons of Sceva are historical, but it's,
it's definitely, I think it's very likely that within 100 years after Jesus, maybe even less,
people were using him as an exorcistic phrase. And this we do see in the Greek, the Greek magic
papyri, there, there's at least one formula in the Greek magic papyri that called that use the
name of Jesus. And it's kind of funny, they say by the power of Jesus, the God of the Hebrews,
you know, as an anti-demon formula. This is from the great magic papyrus of
Paris that I mentioned before. It dates to the fourth century. So it's very late. And it's kind
of this very syncretized text that draws on Jewish and Christian and pagan imagery and puts into one
exorcistic formula. But you can, it's kind of interesting to see by fourth century, by the
fourth century, some Egyptian priest was like, ah, Jesus, that's a name that I know, and that's
a name I need to put into my exorcistic spell. So I think at least the sons of Sceva story is
very plausible, even though these are separated, you know, that's probably a first or second century
story versus the great magical papyrus of Paris, which is fourth century. But, you know, Jesus
becomes kind of an exorcistic name that you could use. It reminds me of that movie Mummy
when the God that comes to life, it's like evil finds one of the priest guys who has like 20
different, you know, amulets on him and he pulls out, what is it? Is it that? Like he's calling
on these gods and different things. Anyway, I was going to ask you, let's get into a little bit of
the art, if you don't mind. There's supposedly early depictions, some of the earliest depictions of
Jesus. He has a wand. I mean, he like, we think of magic, right? We think of one wizard. I know
magic as you've spent most this episode saying like, let's get the term out of our heads. It's
difficult because we watch Wizard of Oz or we watch Lord of the Rings and here is, you know,
Gandalf and he has powers and things. But why do they have Jesus with a wand or a stick in many
cases? Yeah, no, it's extremely interesting and it's just a very short object. It's not like
this huge staff. I think a lot of academics do use the word staff instead of wand because that
word wand just brings, I don't think they're being squeamish. I think they're like, we're trying to
avoid these kind of simplistic connotations. But yeah, I would call those depictions of the
miracle work in Jesus. There's kind of different tropes of early Christian art. You have Jesus,
the like, the Pantocrator, like the all powerful ruler of the universe, Jesus. He has a big beard.
He looks kind of like Zeus or, you know, other gods that are portrayed kind of big bearded and
sitting on a throne. You have Jesus, the philosopher. He's kind of dressed as a philosopher sometimes
with his hand up as if he's teaching. And then you have Jesus, the wonder worker who is frequently
portrayed holding a stick of some sort, you know, pointing at the bread and the fish as he turns
them into, you know, to multiply them. He's pointing at the tomb with Lazarus walking out.
It's tricky because Moses is also depicted in a similar manner. So some scholars argue
that this is actually making him in the mold of Moses and not so much a magician or a magus.
The thing is, though, Moses was also kind of sometimes thought of as a magical figure. So
again, you know, I wouldn't necessarily say it's a magic wand. I would say it's definitely it's
building, it's going outside of the Gospels. You know, he's not portrayed having a stick
in the Gospels. So it's some sort of ritual object that accompanies his miracles.
The thing is, like, not every folkloric sorcerer in Greco-Roman literature is using a wand. You
know, Cersei has some sort of stick, I believe Hermes does as well. So like, it is this trope.
And I guess if I had to make an argument, I would say it's the Greco-Roman artists
drawing on what they know. So, okay, he's a wonder worker. What do wonder workers do? Well,
many of them have a stick. You know, I guess I have not done the actual research just to see what
does like the development of the magic wand look like. When we say wand here in the 21st century,
we think of Harry Potter, we think of like energy blasting out of it. I'm not exactly sure what a
Greco-Roman or a Jew in the Second Temple period would say about the stick. Like, is it augmenting
his power like in Harry Potter? Is it the thing that actually affects the ritual, actualizes the
ritual? I don't know. But it definitely puts him in this mold of wonder worker and not so much as a
philosopher or a god, really. It's more like a wonder working figure.
Do you find that more in this time period in the first century, that more people from the
Galilee were wonder worker types? I mean, we know Hone, for example. Interesting. Are there any other
examples like Hone or maybe you want to draw on Hone that we can relate to Jesus to try and draw
information, understand maybe about a historical Jesus? Yeah. I mean, there's not that much. I
know Hone, the circle maker is kind of a big example. I think Apollonius is sometimes mentioned,
but I think I have not really done the research necessary for this. I believe he's later,
you know, second century texts, third century texts. So I'm a little more hesitant with drawing
stark parallels. But the closest parallel for me would be the Eleazar figure from Josephus.
His role, this guy, must have been an official exorcist. I forget who made this argument.
There was a recent dissertation basically saying that Jewish exorcism in the first century was
also a highly specialized, literate trade. I don't want to put words in his mouth, but this
dissertation basically argued against Jesus being historically an exorcist because it doesn't seem
that he would have had the necessary education to be an exorcist. I don't know if I buy that so
much because I don't know if it requires that much. I think it requires mostly charisma to stand on
stage and say, you know, charisma and authority. I am casting out this demon. But at least the
exorcistic formulas we see from the Dead Sea Scrolls are works of literature by literate specialists.
So it's tricky. I think whoever made those exorcistic formulas in the Dead Sea Scrolls
is not the same sort of social figure as Jesus. From what we can tell, Jesus is this, you know,
rural living in this less developed area, doing a faith healing of some sort,
so these public exorcisms and doesn't seem to be using formulas, and then versus this person
living in the Judean Desert at the Kumran community who makes exorcistic formulas on papyrus
or parchment. It's like a different type of exorcism, a type of different, you know,
these are different classes of specialists, even though they're doing the same thing,
which is defending against demonic power. There's so many interesting things to dive into.
So I wanted to pick your brain as we're wrapping things up here on the magic
and dealing with Morton Smith's arguments and, of course, where you have studied and
looked at these magical papyrus that laid in the game, do not take those to the bank. It's still
interesting to learn, but don't make an argument that Morton Smith was making there about this
correlation. As far as scholarship goes, this is kind of getting off the track of magic,
but more into New Testament studies. I've noticed you've done a lot of work with understanding
Marx, our earliest gospel, going to Mark Goodacre. Of course, Ian Mills, who's now PhD. He's awesome,
by the way, wonderful scholars that you've been working with. And I wanted to get your thoughts
just to get where you're coming from, what you think is happening. You mentioned Robin Faith
Walsh, which I'm already like, awesome, awesome. So he's seen my interview with her,
and he's probably read her works and things like that. Where do you think scholarship's
heading right now as a scholar in the field? You have a special skill set. It's not just
that you're specialized. You're trained to know how to do good scholarship. Unlike me, I'm not
saying I don't know how to do some, but I'm not trained to do it. What direction do you think
is going on in New Testament studies in the correct path? Do you think finding out that maybe
Roman elites or elites in some sense, whether Roman or Jewish doesn't matter, highly educated
people are writing these competitive gospels? We're heading in the right path in what we're
doing right now. Like, the Paul within Judaism School, do you think they're on the right path,
like heading in that direction rather than Paul was against Torah completely? And what do you,
where are you at in the New Testament? Yeah, I mean, I will say that the New Testament's
slightly outside my field. I do late Roman stuff. I'm really comfortable in the third to
sixth centuries. First and second century, I'm a little bit more hazy. I will say,
as someone who does late antiquity and not Second Temple Judaism, I am happy to see
New Testament scholars catching up to what late antique historians have been doing for decades,
which is focusing more on the materiality. We talk about these fragments of gospels from
the sands of Egypt. And so many people think of them as literary texts. What can we learn
from the words written on this piece of papyrus? And I'm like, that's also an object. That's a
piece of papyrus. Can we figure out how that was used ritually in third century Egypt? How a Christian
was standing in a basilica with this gospel codex? How was it being used? So I'm noticing New
Testament scholarship starting to pay attention to materiality. I'm starting them to pay a little
bit more attention to sociological and anthropological theory, which I appreciate.
This is thinking about social roles. This is where Robin Faith Walsh is like, what is the social
location of the gospels? Well, it must have been super elite Greek and Roman authors. We're not
even talking about the 1%. We're talking about the 0, the 0.01% of Greco-Roman elite. So these
are highly elite works of literature. So paying attention to social theories,
paying attention to anthropology. This is something that archaeologists have been very good at. This
is something that historians have been pretty good at. And I've always noticed a little bit of
that you kind of had to drag the New Testament scholars along. Hey, let's pay attention to
the materiality. Let's pay attention to sociology and anthropology. And this is why I love religious
studies so much as a discipline. Because if you get your PhD in religious studies, you're just
hammered into you from day one versus some of these other programs that you'll be diving into
the text right away. But are you diving into the ritual practice? So that's my hope for the future.
And I do see movements in that direction. I love how you put that. It makes me wonder,
just to throw the question at you, I'm going to be interviewing one of her dear friends who
wrote a commentary on Matthew. And I heard her, and I'll leave her name unnamed right now until
I interview her. She said that it wouldn't shock her if Matthew's Gospel was written by
someone on par with pacitus. I mean, meaning like that kind of elite. And I'm thinking to myself,
there's this Roman provenance theory. I know that it's filled and laden with conspiracy. I get it.
Vespasian sent down a decree secretly write these infiltrating propagandistic books to infiltrate
the rebel movement from continuing in their ideology of being zealous and whatnot like
there's conspiracy theories. But it makes me wonder, we have the ground up model grassroots
movement turning into a Roman imperial type of thing over time. That's where I'm at right now.
But these Gospels do kind of throw a wild, what the heck, not very long after the movement has
started 30, 40 years, you have these extremely well sophisticated documents being written,
we call Gospels. And they're not like just some guy writing these texts. It seems to be very
educated people writing it. Do you think this gives some room for the people who think maybe
Rome is involved more than we think? Yeah, I don't know enough about the scholarship to make a
really educated guess. I would not be surprised to hear that comparison between Matthew and
Tacitus. I mean, the Gospel Matthew, the Gospel Luke, these are impressive texts. And I feel like
studying magic kind of has given me an idea of what less impressive texts look like. There's
this great collection of curse tablets discovered in England that date to like the second and
third centuries. And they're all written on lead. They're all calling upon the goddess Sulus Minerva
to protect you. Actually, most of them is to fix petty crime. So and so stole my hooded cloak.
Please bring the hooded cloak back to the temple. So it's almost like this bulletin board and like,
may Sulus Minerva destroy you and your family if you don't. And some of them are written in like
extremely messy handwriting, spelling errors. So obviously, some Joe Schmoe just did that himself.
And he's like, somebody stole my my hoodie from and literally hooded cloaks. A lot of hooded cloaks
are being stolen from this bathhouse in third century England. And then there's other ones that
are like an extremely beautiful Latin script. So my theory is that some of these were self made.
Some of them were made by the temple priests who are like, Hey, let me help you with that curse
tablet. Same with papyrus from Egypt. Some are just short little letters with messy handwriting,
spelling errors. And some are, you know, copies of Plato's Republic, like what was found in the
Nagamati codices. So you can kind of get a sense of like what level of education was necessary
to produce some of these texts. Either whether we're talking about the gospel, the gospels,
like the gospel Matthew, or if we're talking about the great magical papyrus of Paris,
which is like this massive handbook written by an extremely literate priest, if not several like
entire, you know, entire priest or temple priesthood, compiling this handbook of different formulas.
Hey, I'm going to throw in this exorcism that mentions Jesus, I'm going to throw in this
formula that says, help me with my migraine headache. Oh, I'm also going to throw in this
massive Mithras liturgy, like really literate stuff. So when we think of a magician in antiquity,
it's not like it's not just the shaman on the side of the road trying to help your baby die,
not die from dysentery. It's also like highly specialized Egyptian priests that knew the Greek
gods who knew enough to throw in Jesus into their exorcism. And I think we're looking
at that level of expertise for the gospels as well. One last final question about this,
being someone who specializes in the third to sixth century AD, I know I keep harping back
toward the first century, but I always like to try and understand this religion that had its
claws so deeply in me. And what is it? What is going on here? I did a seven part series that
hasn't been launched yet with Im David Litwam. And he's talking about mystery cults, mystery religion,
however you want to call it. And he said, he did seven of them, the Eleusinian, Isis Osiris,
he did all these different things. And he finally on the seventh one, he did Christianity. And in
all of them, he wanted to kind of show there's a lot in common in Paul with mystery cults and stuff.
But getting into this Mithras liturgy and someone who specializes later on and trying to
understand it, do you think that early on, because we don't have much kind of a lacuna in the field
of Mithras, there's some borrowing or is that's probably a bad term to use because I know a lot
of scholars like to make sure that they don't have parallelomania. But do you think there's
something going on in the ritual itself that has a common trope in Mithras as with Jesus?
I guess the way I would put it is that Mithraists and early Christians were swimming in the same
cultural waters. And that includes how they do ritual. So, for example, if today, in this day
and age, we say, oh, Christians meet in churches and Muslims meet in mosques. Like, is there borrowing
there? Like, well, no, they're just in these two religions, they meet in buildings. Some religions,
you don't meet in buildings. So, like, when I see that the Mithraists were meeting in Mithraia,
so these underground rooms, the Christians were meeting in houses. And at least with the
Dura Eropus Church, it's like this house that's been converted into a ritual space.
That's not surprising to me to have initiation rituals like baptism versus the Mithraists who
had a very complicated initiation ritual. I see similarities there. I wouldn't say they're
borrowing from each other, but I would say the Greeks and the Romans had initiation rituals.
And that's just how they did religion. So, for me, it's not so much borrowing as much as it's
like they're drawing from their culture. So, even things like, like the Christian phrase,
Kyrie Le'ezon, Lord have mercy, is drawn from imperial language, where you refer to the emperor
as Kyrie, the Tricogion. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty is drawing from Jewish liturgy
that stretches back before Christianity. So, there is borrowing that happens. And
when I look for that borrowing, I try to look for like very obvious lines of influence. And
those examples seem pretty obvious to me. Yeah.
Is it fair to say by the third, sixth century, the lines have become blurred? I mean, they're
already blurry in the first, but I'm saying, even Litwis says, go to the second century. Stop trying
to act like you know what happened in the first because he said, it's a wild, wild West. And
then he said, even in the second century, it's a wild, wild West. So, understanding what happened
in the first in Christianity, or in what we like to call Christianity, which wasn't really
Christianity. I would say it's still a wild West, even in the fourth and fifth centuries. So,
John Chrysostom complains about Christians attending synagogues, complaining to his own
congregation, hey, stop going to synagogues. So, like we think about Christianity and Judaism
split, you know, parting ways sometime in the first or second century. And like, well, they were
still Christians going to synagogues in the fourth century. And Chrysostom lived into the
fifth century. So, we're talking like, well after Constantine, there's still a type of Christian out
there who apparently still affiliated with Judaism, which is very interesting. He complains about,
like I said, people relying on amulets that have Alexander the Great. There's a bishop in Southern
France called Caesarius, who complains about his parishioners going to sacred groves, like going
out to trees in the countryside. And Caesarius, I think, is fifth or sixth century. So, he's like,
really late. You know, some people don't even use the Roman Empire anymore. They use the word
Byzantine Empire by then. But there were still Christians going out into the countryside to
sacred groves. So, to use that term, Hobbitus again, there's like the idea, like the deeply
culturally ingrained rituals that people do are so ingrained that they kind of happen in the
background. It's like the software on your phone. You don't really know that it's there. You just see
what pops up on your screen. And everything from Christians going to Saint shrines and sleeping
there overnight to have a Saint visit them and heal them. Well, that sounds a lot like a
Sclepius. You go sleep in the temple of a Sclepius, and a Sclepius will visit you in your dreams and
heal you. So, that's a practice that continued from the Greek period, hundreds of years before
Christianity and way into the Christian period. There's something called ticket oracles in Egypt,
where you would write a question on a little ticket. Hey, should I move to Chicago? Yes or no?
You fold up the thing and throw it into the temple, and you would get an answer, probably from some
priest answering it for you. The ticket oracle goes back centuries in Egyptian history, and
Christians were doing it well into the Roman Empire. But instead, they're writing these little
tickets to saints instead of Egyptian gods. So, this is like ritual practice that's so deeply
ingrained in culture. It just doesn't stop. And so, going back to the idea of Mithras, like the
example of Mithras, these are deeply ingrained things. Initiation, rituals, secret knowledge.
Paul talks a lot about secret knowledge, even though we don't want to call them Gnostic.
Meeting and buildings and doing liturgies. They were doing liturgies in synagogues. They're
doing liturgies in churches, and they were doing liturgies in Mithraeus. It's just how you do
religion in that day and age. Ladies and gentlemen, religion for breakfast
with Dr. Andrew Henry. I seriously appreciate you. I hope everybody goes. Subscribe to his
successful YouTube channel that is highly educational. You give free education to the world.
I commend you for that. In fact, I've been watching you for a long time, and I've been
waiting for this day to be able to have a chat with you. I plan on hopefully having more in the
future, and maybe seeing you on my friend Neil Gnostic and Formit to go and hang out with him.
He's a buddy of mine, and he's a patron of yours as well. Go to the website also,
religionforbreakfast.com. He has a Patreon. We got to get him up to a thousand patrons,
everybody. This way, what was it you're trying to accomplish? Because I know you're trying to hit a
goal here. So, religion for breakfast really focuses on all religions. I don't just focus on
early Christianity. I like publishing videos on early Christianity because that's what I study,
but I'm trying to publish two mega series, one on Islam and one on Hinduism. I'm hiring scholars
of Islam and Hinduism to write these episodes. I care a lot about not putting out misinformation
into the world, so I want to hire actual experts to help write these and to help support bringing
in more help to make these the best resources for religious literacy on the platform. I'm looking
for more resources. That's why I'm doing this push for more patrons for 2022 to help fund these
two series. I'm thinking 10 episodes for Islam, 10 episodes for Hinduism, maybe 25 minutes for
each episode, so a massive amount of content on these two topics. That is a lot. Of course,
that's also a very tricky, sensitive area to go into. Obviously, sticking with scholarship and
historical method and things like that will be your best bet. That way people can interpret
things at the end of the day. Sure, I know a lot of people who are religious, but they also know how
to do historical methodology and they kind of split the two off as two categories. One is in the
faith land and then the other one is, what can we know and why should we think this? I'm interested
in that side, of course, rather than the faith side, even though I am interested in why people
believe I was one of those people. As you said earlier, with the whole magic and doing these
things and casting out demons, it was the social environment. I would want something to happen,
so I would utter, speak in tongues and things like that. I would go into it. I know what it's like
and that helps me empathize, not be a complete anti-jerk, if you will, to people who are of
faith. It makes me understand that they don't mean bad. This is what I say about religious studies.
Tier one of religious literacy is understanding what religious studies is because there's always
this confusion between theology and religious studies. I think religious studies is one of the
worst named fields ever. When I say biology, you know what I'm talking about. When I say anthropology,
you know what I talk about. When I say religious studies, you hear that word religious and you're
like, oh, this must be some sort of confessional or devotional scholar. I'm like, no, religious
studies is the secular study of human behavior that we happen to call religious. That includes
everything from sacred texts to rituals to political hierarchy and how religion affects
politics or music. Religious studies cover so many different fields, but ultimately it's a
secular field studying human behavior. You can be religious, you can be not religious, and do
religious studies because it's a theory and a method being applied to human behavior. That's
what I do in all my videos. Some are on Islam. I've done a video on Haitian voodoo. I have a
video on the evolution of religious music looking at cognitive evolution. It's a very
generalist kind of channel. Thank you so much for giving me your time. I also want to make
sure that they go to your website. What can they find here? I don't do too much on the dot com,
but you can find some old thoughts. I've been meaning to post the transcripts to my videos
on the website, but best way to find me would be on the YouTube channel. You can also follow me
on Twitter or Instagram at Andrew Mark Henry. Awesome. Thank you so much. Any final words you
want to tell our audience when they start diving into the subject matter, things that they should
maybe look further into, any publications you've put out or things you're working on that you might
be trying to do? I would pick up a copy of the Greek Magical Papyri. There's a very famous
publication by Hans Betz, B-E-T-Z, which is just a compilation of translations.
Just keep in mind that you're looking at a compilation that scholars made.
Nobody has gone out and found the copy of the Greek Magical Papyri. It's a compilation.
And just look at some of the most syncretic, wild, ancient texts you can ever come across.
Everything from, how do I not get a migraine headache to, how do I commune with a dead spirit?
Really interesting stuff. And it gives you a pretty good idea of
Greco-Egyptian religious practice in the late Roman period.
Ladies and gentlemen, please go join his Patreon, help support his mission on educating the world
broader. Subscribe to his and our Patreon, if you will, and our YouTube channels. I mean,
we are on a mission to really bring this public. And that is one of the things I commend Dr. Henry
on when I read his website, he realized there was a lacuna in YouTube or even the internet world
on getting these ideas that I have found as a non-academic are hiding, as the Bible would say,
like a candle under a lampstand. It's like, they're there, but are you ready to fork out $60,000 to
go and specialize in a field in order to find this stuff? Or you wanted to check this out
on the convenience of sitting on your couch or riding in your car, going on a walk,
hitting play and saying, whoa, Dr. Henry just blew my mind. I did not know that about Apollonia
Satayana. I did not know that about Hinduism. I did not know that about Christianity. I did not
know Mark was the earliest gospel. We've been told it was Matthew. There's so many things that
we enjoy doing. And I think it also is making the world a better place because the religious
aren't as fanatical and fundamentalist. And those who are skeptics like me, who would identify as
atheists, are not being radical either. Trying to bridge that gap and have interfaith dialogue is
our goal. I don't want to be this type of guy. I have my moments. Don't get me wrong, especially
right now with what's going on. But anyway, yeah, thank you for your time. I really seriously
appreciate you. Yeah, thanks so much for having me. Never forget, we are MythVision.
