Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm Derek Lambert and I would consider myself an ex-Jesus
freak, someone who was seriously obsessed with Christianity and really expected the Lord to
come back any moment in my life as a Christian. Today I'm joined by a friend, Mark Edward,
who has a story, might be something you relate to of how he went from being a devout Christian
to thinking the way he thinks today. With that being said, welcome to MythVision, Mark. How are
you? Good. How are you doing? Good. Good. I am looking forward to a documentary that you have
helped script. You wrote the whole thing and I'm putting the touches on it for the documentary
and that is dealing with apocalypse, specifically addressing the ordeal in the book of Revelation,
but much more said there. With that being said, you are very insightful. For those who don't know
you on MythVision, I have had conversation with you. I've seen what you write. You've done some
reading yourself, but before we get to where you're at today and the thinking you have,
I want to know a little bit about your story, your life. Would you have considered yourself a
Jesus freak? Yeah. As a teenager, late middle school, early high school is when I really started
getting to home Bible study and youth group and all that typical story, but I was extremely
closed off from culture just because of my religious upbringing through my parents. It was
a big deal when I found DC Talks Jesus Freak album and I couldn't get enough of it. I literally made
permanent marker on a white t-shirt, wrote the word Jesus Freak and wore it to school. That's
what kind of guy I was. Yeah, I would consider myself that there was a book that came out Jesus
Freak. Wasn't it DC Talk or someone? It was a book of martyrs. It was stories meant to entice
kids to live Christianity to the fullest. Wow. I remember that. I just don't remember all the
stories in it. They actually had two volumes. See, you even know more than I do. As far as
being a Christian, what kind of Christian were you? What was your upbringing denomination? How
did you get introduced to it? Were you born into it? Was your family very religious?
Well, one of my parents has been a devout Christian, very hardcore fundamentalist since,
at least before I was born. And my other parent may be quasi-religious, more of a cultural thing
than anything else, but grew up in church, far right, Pentecostal, charismatic, assemblies of God,
a few more right-wing, Wesleyan churches, vineyard denomination, which is very closely related to
assemblies of God and that kind of crowd. So yeah, it was, as far as I can remember, all the way
back to when I was a kid, it was always church every week, falling asleep on the hardwood pews,
and then eventually joining youth group and going through kind of a hazing tradition that my
middle school youth group did for new kids. And that's really what it was, all the way through
high school, college, and a little bit after that as well.
It sounds like you were raised believing kind of out the gate, but a lot of people who are in
these kind of denominations have a moment of profound experience at some point where they
kind of take things a little more serious. Do you have a memory of anything like that?
Honestly, for me, that moment was reading the book of Revelation for the first time. I was maybe 13
or 14 years old. I typically did not go out to hang out with friends on the weekends. It wasn't
my thing, kind of, I wouldn't say I wasn't allowed, but just I didn't have the right kinds of friends
because I was just so notoriously fundamentalist, even in a public school setting. I was one of
those kinds of kids. So Saturday night, nothing to do, sit on the couch in the living room with my
Bible, and I flipped to Revelation for the first time, and I'm absolutely baffled by what I'm
reading, and my more religious parent came in, asked what was going on, and I told them what
I'm reading, and they said, oh, you're never going to understand that. It wasn't an insult,
but it was just they had no idea what this book said, therefore, nobody can understand it, was
kind of their approach, and that moment gave me the dedication, I have to figure out what this
book says. Why is it so confusing? What does it mean, compared to these other stories that are
so much easier to understand, like stories about Jesus and healing people and these letters of Paul
that are comparatively straightforward? And I think from that moment on, it was really just me
trying to figure out what does the Bible say, what is this weird book at the end of the Bible,
and what does it mean for life in general? I feel like in your journey with us,
two things are going to happen. You're going to hear, ladies and gentlemen, what made him
ex at the box, but at the same time, maybe nailing down the actual understanding and context,
helped him exit that box. So let's take this journey with you, Mark. You're a Christian,
you read the apocalypse of John, your mind is blown, it's scary, it's interesting, it's all
sorts of things, all the emotions are in this text, but what does it mean? What does it mean by
locusts? What does it mean by beast and worship and don't take the mark? I imagine as a Christian,
and maybe you can correct me or tell me if this is different, there's a bit of context we go into
this. From hearing in church, these kind of rapture type ideas, these kind of, this is talking
about the future, and we already kind of have a little bit of that baggage, even if it's subconscious
through the Christian culture that we're in, and we really don't have a clue what this book is really
about. Do you share that? Yeah, I mean, some of the earliest sermons I can remember hearing in
church on Sundays or even Wednesday nights when I joined my youth group was about the revelation
and about the end times and how things are near and there's signs all around us, but pastors
could never really get specific about what they were talking about. Like they're so certain that
the end is close, that the rapture is any day, but they can't really point to actual details
in the world around us for why they think that. So there's just this constant, I don't want to say
paranoia, but this anticipation that permeated my religious upbringing anyway. Do you think that
played a role in when you finally came across this text yourself? Is such a profound experience
was happening due to that? At least at that point, I don't think I had the connection that this is
the book where people are getting these ideas from. I just knew there's parts of the Bible that it
talks about the end times, but I didn't really have the exposure to specific texts yet.
I just knew, hey, there's this part of the Bible about Jesus. There's these parts. Bring my this
guy named Paul. There's stuff about Noah and Moses and that's really all I knew at the time.
So yeah, I mean, reading the revelation is, I want to say that's the catalyst that got me into
biblical studies as a hobby, first devotionally and then just eventually as an intellectual
pursuit, academic hobby, if you want to call it that. Picking your brain a little more,
what did you think of the book at that time? Do you remember what your thought process was and
what you thought it meant or? I kind of agreed with my parent that I don't know if I can understand
this picture of a guy with a sword hanging out of his mouth. What the heck does that like? How
does that work? Where? How? How does he spinning this sort of pictures of monsters crawling out of
the ocean and fiery locusts? None of it made sense. It seemed like a genuine puzzle that needed to be
assembled and we didn't have any of the pieces. We just had like a list of instructions or not
instructions, just a list of what the pieces should be and it was up to you to find them,
but you have no idea where to look. That's what it felt like. So this kind of mystery and wanting
to solve this was an early experience for you. So you're going through your teenage years,
you're really into studying the Bible, I suspect. I kind of developed a reputation in my youth group
as a nodal Bible brain yet kind of kid. Apologetics. I read some of those, you know, John, Josh,
McDowell, like those kinds of authors trying to, because like I, that's the only kind of literature
I was really allowed to buy for myself. Go to the Christian bookstore in town and that's where I
would go. The devotional prayer books didn't really interest me. The fiction stuff other than left
behind didn't really interest me. So it was just trying to figure out this stuff out and reading
books that would help me figure it out and develop the weird reputation as, hey, that's the kid who
knows where, like that's, he knows what happened after the flood. He knows where the boat went.
Right. Were you into Robbie Zacharias or William Lane Craig or any of these guys?
I think I read a little bit of William, like, excuse me, William Lane Craig. I tried reading
a book by Robbie Zacharias and his verbosity was annoying. He said a lot without saying anything.
Even as a kid, I knew that that was true about the guy.
Got it. Yeah. He was poetic to me. I enjoyed the kind of, the poeticness about him while he spoke.
And I was big into the apologetics. And of course, revelation was intriguing. But I kind of went with
thinking these authorities, we call pastors, they have a better guest than I do. And they're,
this has to apply to me, you know, there's somehow this book plays a role with what we're dealing
with today, not having the slightest clue that every generation since this thing's been written
has struggled with this text and applied it to their own context. So you're going through your
teenage years, take us into your, your kind of experience as a Christian and you're an analytical
person. We can already see that up front. You're big into data, facts, history, this kind of stuff.
You're not so much into the devotional side. You're the smart guy, the smart, smarty pants,
as we call them, who knows his Bible really, really well. And I was kind of like that. I'm not
going to say I was as good as you, but I'd listen to pastors preach. They're not looking at their
Bible. They'd make minor mistakes. I knew that text. And I was like, he just mistaked. And I
always use this example. When Jesus in the gospel of John's is tear down the temple,
I'll rebuild it in three days. The pastor says it took us 40 years, the Jews said. And I'm like,
it's 46. I knew that off the top of my head. How did he not know this? You know, like in my head,
I need to become a pastor. That was my mindset. What was your path? I think I kind of imagined
myself eventually growing up and writing an apologetics books, books that would help because
this is the purpose of apologetics, I would write books to help other Christians defend
their beliefs. Really just a, that's the whole point of apologetics is not to convince other
people. It's to convince people in the group on how to keep their beliefs when they're having doubts.
And that's what I saw myself eventually doing. Wow. And how old were you,
would you say, as you were thinking this way? Maybe 15 or 16, possibly 17.
So you're still in high school, graduating high school. You're still kind of kept in a bubble,
not very exposed to the world, I imagine. Certain channels on TV, radio stations,
parts of the bookstore, like wasn't not that I was not allowed to go to those places or seek
those things out. It was so heavily discouraged. I didn't want to disappoint this religious parent
who I was kind of being molded by the kind of catch 22 that you can have your freedom of expression,
but you'll get that really sad look when you do it in a way that they don't approve of.
And I didn't want to disappoint this person. So I stayed inside that bubble almost voluntarily,
at least for the next 10 years or so. This is a little bit anachronistic,
but it's important. I think we ask the audience may be interested in hearing as well as me.
Do you feel looking back in a sense that this was kind of coercive and manipulative?
Not saying your parents meant to do this. I'm not putting any of this on them because they're
just taught and then their parents were taught. But do you feel like there was a sense of abuse
in some way through this religion, through how it was told to you and how you're supposed to live
in stuff? Any harm that you see in your life from that? At least for in the period where I was
deconstructing beliefs that I eventually decided like these can't be correct,
but before I fully deconverted and identify as agnostic. Yeah, I would say that there was a lot
of manipulation. But like you said, it's not fully conscious on their part. It's learned behavior
and there's doing what they know and what they think they're supposed to do or what they think
works. But the idea that a large part of it was you're not allowed to ask questions if they don't
have an answer for you. Where you can ask difficult questions about the Bible or theology or the
end times or whatever. But once you get up to this boundary of their knowledge, they get defensive
and almost angry that you're asking something legitimate and they don't have an answer for
you. And because of that, because you don't want to anger them, you kind of limit yourself on where
you go intellectually or even emotionally because you don't want to disappoint them and you don't
want to challenge your own faith because that's the implication you're challenging your faith by
asking these questions. So because of that, it forces you to stay inside the box voluntarily.
And when you get near the edge of that box, when you start to kind of peek outside of it,
you feel guilty. I can relate and I won't get into my examples, but I can relate. As far as your
description of becoming agnostic, I think that's jumping the gun because most of us, and I don't
want to give your story, but most of us kind of transition slowly. We go from one to another.
So I need to back up a little before we get to where you end up. And that is, you said you were
fundamentalist, Jesus freak, were you an inerrantist, were you a young earth creationist? I'm speaking
for myself. All that stuff. Okay. If one error was there, that had blown your mind, right? Yeah.
Young earth creationism, you know, literal worldwide flood, the whole thing. Yeah. Same here,
anti-evolution period. The Ken Hamish type of idea. Yeah. I'm sad to say that when I was a kid,
I kind of looked up to answers and Genesis. Got it. I feel awful thinking that I hate that
resource now. I get it. Part of your journey, right? So that's why we're talking. You become too
smart for that kind of view over time. It imagines, I imagine as you're telling the story,
what happens? Take us on that. If I was a Christian, this is super uncomfortable. He's
describing something that caused him to slowly start chipping away that the chinks in his armor
started to expose him and realizing, oh my gosh, this thing's falling apart. It's not
what I thought it was. Was there any profound moments that you remember? Tell us that path.
There's nothing specific. There's no individual moment that I can think of, but I do remember
the chain of events. I think maybe a few weeks later, after I read Revelation for the first time,
I was just casually perusing a bookshelf in my family's basement and I found one titled
Apocalypse Code. It was in a long row of books that were Tom Clancy-type fiction. I think I passed
by it a lot of times, not realizing this isn't the same genre as everything around it. It just
kind of looks like it because of the book cover, but it's like, oh, Apocalypse. That's that book in
the Bible. So I pull it out and I read the back and it's trying to explain, hey, this is what
Revelation means. This is the end times. This is when Jesus is coming back, like, oh, this is exactly
the kind of thing I need. And so this book, Apocalypse Code by Hal Lindsey, I think it was
published in 97, it goes through all the parts of Revelation, chapters 1 through 22, and it explains,
here's what this thing means. This is what this thing means. And everything had an explanation.
It's the exact kind of thing I was looking for, where those locusts, for example, it's a first
century man trying to describe 20th century technology with his limited knowledge. What he
thinks he's seeing looks like a locust, but he's really describing an attack helicopter for war.
It's like, oh, yeah, yeah, that makes perfect sense. It all fell into place. This is this is the
book that had the puzzle pieces, and I can assemble them now. But then some point, maybe in the
following year, I heard about this book series called Left Behind. And it's about the end times,
and it's a fiction series that kind of illustrates what's going to happen based on
how to read the Revelation properly. It's like, oh, okay, so I go read that. And it's heavily
promoted in my church, because that's the theology that everybody around me believed.
And I'm reading this book series, like it's really interesting, 14 year old, 15 year old,
but it's nothing like Apocalypse Code. It's not attack helicopters being described like locusts,
it's literal demonic locust things that are sent by Satan. They're not compatible,
they're different interpretations of this book. And so that exposed me to this idea that there's
more than one way to read Revelation of John, even by other Christians. And they vehemently
disagree with each other on how to approach this thing. So I think as bizarre as it is to say,
Left Behind put the idea in my head that not everybody agrees on how to read the Revelation,
and you should start asking questions about, well, they read it this way, but
is there a legitimate reason for reading it that way? That eventually just led me to start
looking for other commentaries and online articles and all kinds of websites trying to figure this
thing out. And that started this really slow process of tearing apart these old things I believed,
and rebuilding it in a new way, and then eventually tearing that down, and this repetitive process
until eventually I get to where I am now. So I would say that it was maybe a 10, 15 year process.
So that's, I love that you gave us the tease, but it's safe to say that Christians disagreeing
with Christians, meaning they're safe material. Remember, Mom and Dad are okay with,
whichever one's more religious, are okay with you reading Christian material. And as long as it's
within the somewhat scope of our tradition, I'm okay with this. You're not like running off the
Roman Catholicism. How dare you, right? So we're cool. We're cool. You're reading a guy that your
own church is cool with, but then there's this other guy, and he has a different take on certain
things, and you start going, Oh my gosh, hold on, which one's right? And then more curiosity,
needing to get to the bottom of the answer of who's right, because you're not settled on authority,
you're settled on researching it yourself and finding out and picking out what makes the most
sense leads you to get a little more serious, which leads you to other material you're suggesting.
And over time, I suspect you're starting to pick up commentaries from people. Did you go with like
really old commentaries from more Protestants that have written through history, Calvin and others,
and then eventually worked a critical scholarship, or how did your journey work?
I think the first few that I bought for myself were still 20th century fundamentalist Protestant
Christians, for example, Tim LaHaye's Revelation Unveiled, which is his popular level commentary
on Revelation. I think after all this time, I've honestly forgotten a lot of the titles of the
ones I've got, like I either checked out from the library or I found in the bookstore and sat down
to read in the corner armchair. But yeah, I was going through popular level commentaries and
eventually finding pages on the internet that kind of get a little bit more detail into this
language we call Greek. I had no idea, like they don't teach you that in these kinds of churches
that the Bible is written in another language, unless they're trying to manipulate it in a way
that helps their theology. Eventually, I think maybe around 18, 19 years old, I discovered this
theology called Preterism, which was completely new to me. If it was a big jump from Hal Lindsey to
Tim LaHaye, and they're more or less in the same branch of Protestant Christian theology,
Preterism in the setting I grew up in could almost be considered heresy, even though I would say
maybe safe to say most Christians around the world believe some form of Preterism.
And just to find it for people so they understand is that it's a fulfillment of something that's
happened in the past. So if you ask, do you believe that some of the prophecies are fulfilled in the
Bible, then you're some kind of Preterism. But we usually use that as a theological category for
specific type of people. Yeah. So the form of Protestant fundamentalist Christianity I was
raised in believes in a theology called Futurism, which is essentially that revelation and other
in times prophecies are still going to be fulfilled in our future. They haven't, they have not been
fulfilled yet. And then I discovered this theology called Preterism, which is that revelation and
prophecies by Jesus about the end times or Paul or the book of Daniel have mostly or maybe entirely
been fulfilled in the ancient past 2000 years ago, more or less. And that was just mind boggling
to me. How can you believe that? How can you believe Jesus's second coming happened 2000 years ago?
Okay, people out there who do believe that. You're differentiating between two groups of
Preterist and then within those groups, there are variations, but let's stick to the general
topic of partial and full Preterist. You just described full Preterist to think the second
coming of Jesus happened. Before I became a full Preterist, I was a partial Kenneth Gentry, Gary
DeMar, R.C. Sproul, mostly Reformed guys that I came in contact with. However, Church of Christ,
people had their own little avenue and people probably within your kind of tradition, there
are probably these heretic versions of people who might have come to this conclusion that were part
of, I suspect, accessible through your ideas and Christianity or whatever. So the question I have is
your mind is blown as was mine. This was the answer that you were looking for. And now you think,
all right, are you wrestling between partial and full or are you mainly a partial? How does that
work for you? Well, at first, there was that initial shock of what there's this theology that says
the second coming happened 2000 years ago. That's nonsense. How can that possibly be true? But then,
like you said, I eventually learned, oh, there's there's two kinds. There's the partial, there's the
full. And it's like, okay, Orthodox Christians, second coming hasn't happened yet, obviously,
there's still all these problems in the world. We're still here. So partial, it's got to be
partial. So that's what I kind of studied and leaned into for maybe the next three or four years,
because it just started making more and more sense. Compared to where you were, this is like,
clearly more accurate, right? Yeah, because once you start digging into this, it's like,
how can it's ludicrous to think that a first century man is trying to describe
attack helicopters as locusts. That's obviously just a modern author trying to keep his theology
comfortable. And he and he's just grasping at straws to make sense of something that doesn't
make sense. But the big thing that made me jump ship from futurist theology into this
preterist theology was, well, Revelation of John says the time is near. These prophecies must be
fulfilled soon. It says that in the first three verses of the book. And then I think it says it
in the last like 10 verses of the book. So it's really driving that point home. Futurism has to
say that soon doesn't mean soon. Near doesn't mean near. You have to either completely change the
definition of this basic word, or you have to go through this weird mental gymnastics that it's,
oh, it's God's perception of time. Well, then that just makes the word meaningless to us anyway.
Preterism doesn't have to do that. It takes that word soon seriously. It takes that word near
seriously. So maybe this theology takes the Bible more seriously than futurism. And it was it was
an easy decision to leave behind futurism for preterism. Can I add a few layers to see if
you give the green light on that also may have helped your conclusion? Yeah. So obviously,
we talked about near and soon, and you could find this throughout the whole New Testament.
But those passages where Jesus is saying, here are the signs of the end, you know,
when armies surround Jerusalem, flee to the mountains. You ask yourself, am I supposed to run
to the mountains? I don't live near mountains or, you know, like little contextual things that go,
this can't be talking to me. He's got to be talking to them. Then you start going, well,
how would this matter to them? And, you know, like you stop reading the Bible as if it's all
talking to me about me in my situation. That hermeneutic is pretty mind blowing,
shifting from how does this mean something to me to them? Is that something that also
hits you hard, the synoptic apocalypse? Yeah. March 13, Matthew 24, Luke 21. Other little
parts just sprinkled throughout the the gospels, parts of letters of Paul. You know, Romans 16,
he says, the the god of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. That's a pretty big thing to say
if it didn't happen until 2000 years or more later. Yeah, lots of lots of things throughout the
New Testament, even in the Old Testament, started to click into place way more than they did when
I was a futurist. I like that. I just want to highlight that. I like that because now you have a new tool
in your in your pocket, and you're able to now apply that kind of same method when you're reading
an Old Testament passage. This doesn't speak directly to me about me in my situation. You're
like, what does this mean to Jeremiah? Or what does this mean in there? And you're reading it with
more of a what does the context to the text and what do they mean to them? Yeah, that's
yeah. That's the that's the big thing that I think was never taught in the forms of Christianity
I was raised in, that these prophecies or not even just prophecies, just anything in the Bible,
it has to make sense to the contemporary audience of the author. If it doesn't, or if it can't be
accessible to them because it's only accessible 2000 years later, it's probably not what the
author meant. That was like Nostradamus like the eagle will give rise and the two towers will fall
and people think this is 9 11 and like Nostradamus had no clue. His audience had no clue. I'm making
an example because I don't really know Nostradamus predictions very well. You might know better than
me, but I like that one in particular was actually invented after 9 11. Just to prove your point.
Go figure, right? So you're doing more heavy lifting now, but also being amazed at finding
out stuff that you were never taught in church. And this puts you at this point, I imagine sounds
a bit narcissistic and ego, you know, but this puts you at a way past your pastors in your church
in really attaining what's going on to the context, the context of these authors.
Are you having friction in your actual Christian life with these churches and these pastors,
or are you having to kind of keep that on the low low and keep doing what you're doing?
At that point, where a lot of people that I knew growing up had been turning to me for like,
Hey, where's this part of Genesis mean? What is this part in the Psalms mean? That dried up
because I'm not a socially outspoken person, but I have been maintaining some form of biblical
studies presence on the internet since I was a teenager. And when I started becoming vocal online
about this, and my friends are reading things I write, that's when they stopped coming to me for
answers about weird biblical stuff or biblical questions they had, at least that, you know,
that fundamentalist circle I grew up in that stopped happening.
Is it isn't that interesting just from a social standpoint, how you're doing taboos or talking
about things that don't fit the narrative we're taught. So there's a distance or a gap, not saying
they completely disassociate, but they definitely something shifts. And I don't know what the
ultimate reasons are. I've had this similar experience. I think when I first talked about
the like my decisions, like I think futurism is nonsense. I don't think it's a defensible position
when you're just talking about here's what the text says. And instead I embraced this new theology
new to me called preterism. And like, it made a lot of people confused and sometimes like a
few of them quite angry, where I would get these messages sent to me in my email, or the early
early days of Facebook, saying it's like, how could you, how can you believe this, this garbage?
I had a couple of friends who just outright ghosted me over it.
What about the pastor? And did you have any friction at your church?
Not that early on. But as I grew older, started getting weird looks in Sunday morning sermons,
where even friends around me would notice that the pastor would like he would say something in
the church that I belonged to up until about just just a little under 10 years ago, the
Sunday morning sermons, they always had two services, the early service and then the late
morning service and eventually three where they kind of spaced those out and put one in the middle,
just because the church was growing that much in our city. And some friends who would they would
volunteer in the Sunday school and they would play the sermon over the intercom speakers for
people in Sunday, excuse me, not Sunday school, you know, watching the toddlers babies, whatever,
while parents are in the sermon in the sanctuary, they would have the speakers playing in there so
that adults watching little kids can still listen to the pastor. And some friends who would be in
there, they would hear the sermon two or three times every morning on Sundays and they would say,
were you in the third service today? Like, why? It's like, because he said this thing really,
really different at this specific point in the sermon, it's like, oh, yeah, I got kind of a weird
vibe when I'm sitting in the pew and he's kind of like, give me the evil eye out of the corner of
his eye and friends around me sitting in the pews, they would notice it too. And it was always
something related to the end times. That's shockingly similar, not identical, but I it's like
you're telling my story somewhat in a way, because the church started discovering I was talking to
other men who are members of the church about this preterism and how this makes way better sense.
And they were becoming persuaded. And I'm not just talking about partial, this is full on full
preterism in a PCA Presbyterian conservative church. And the pastor's sermons, first of all,
five elders rebuked me. And I ended up eventually leaving and the next communicated me like a year
later through written documentation. But there were sermons really want to emphasize the resurrection
of the body, you know, really want to emphasize certain theological points that like no home that
full preterism can't be it, and that we're still waiting for these things. And I thought he's got
to be jabbing at me. And I just started feeling awkward. Maybe it's me in my own head, assuming
he's doing these things. And I'm a little paranoid because I have this thing that I know everyone
in there disagrees with. And they know that I'm speaking on it. So that's more or less what it
was for me also, where at first is like, I'm being conceited. He can't be talking about me. But when
other people started commenting on it, that's when I knew it was really happening. One of the
examples that really sticks out in my mind is 2013, 2014, the four blood moons. Do you remember
that? Yes, there was that art. That's the kind of stuff that my church would latch onto. John
Hagey type stuff. Yeah, they would be posting his stuff in the church Facebook groups or the email
newsletters. And the Bible blog that I had running at the time, I made a post comment
things like, Here's why I think this is nonsense. Here's why I think we shouldn't. This is why it's
we're connecting dots where there aren't any dots where we're inventing a pattern and putting that
pattern onto historical events where the pattern doesn't fit. It's like, Oh, there's these these
upcoming four lunar eclipses, total lunar eclipses, which means that they're going the moon's going
to appear red, totally natural phenomenon. It just happens that there's going to be four in a row.
And every time this has happened in history, some major event has happened regarding Israel's like,
the last time one happened was like 600 years ago. And it happened like 40 years after the event that
it's supposed to be connected to. How is that relevant? So I point this out. And one of those
situations where I got hate mail, if that's what you want to call it wasn't quite that strong,
was that vibe. And the pastor makes a really deliberate comment in his sermon, once he gets to
like, he has a sermon about the four blood moons, essentially. And when he gets to a particular point,
the way he phrased it, it's like, he's really obviously quoting what I wrote on my website.
I want to know what happened with you attending the church. Did you did you keep going? Was it
your parents that still were behind you and you had to go? Or like, what what happened? So this
church, different city than the one my parents live in, but it's the one I went to during high
school, they have since moved. So they weren't really involved in this church. But I had been
going there for about 15 years by that point. And I think it was 2015, completely unrelated. I stuck
through everything in this church that I, all these disagreements of theology and end times and
whatever. But the thing that made me end up leaving was when the pastor sent out a newsletter to the
entire church saying to pray against the Supreme Court ruling in favor of LGBT marriage. When
that happens, like, I can't stay in this church anymore. They're like, it's not worth the trouble.
It's not worth trying to change people's minds if this is what the church culture is. So not
related to end times, but it was, I did have a moment where it's like, I can't go back.
Wow. Okay. So that, I was curious because this seemed to be a big deal, this whole,
you know, preterism stuff. So obviously it is a big deal. It was a big deal for me.
You're a devout Christian. In fact, I can't imagine you not thinking how much more serious of a
Christian you were, because you're taking the word of God seriously enough to investigate what his
word, which is inspired by him, means and what it meant to them, the people who wrote it,
the people who are reading it initially. So you're a diehard believer. You realize that
Christians not only disagree with Christians, but by this point, Christians are in a way,
seeing you as the black sheep. You are a wolf, in a sense, in sheep clothing. And you're a Christian
who thinks they're doing the right thing, but you're criticizing what you think is just baloney.
And they're taking it as a tax. And now you're getting attacked. And there's a war,
a ideological war in Christendom. I want to highlight that for the viewer. Are we getting
close to your exit interview with Jesus, or at least going to some form of theism that maybe
isn't quite what you were in. Talk to us about that transition as a devout Christian, full
preterist. What happened that turned the car onto a different path? I want to say it was about
2012, where I eventually moved from partial preterism into full preterism, became convinced
that, yeah, if you take everything literally, and by that, I mean, seriously, like if you're
taking it seriously, if you're if you're not trying to fudge the definitions of words to make
these parts of the Bible more comfortable for yourself, then it really seems like it's saying
Jesus is going to come back within the lifetime of his followers. Matthew 24, Mark 13, Jesus says,
this generation will not pass until all these things take place. And by all these things,
he's including when he says, the Son of Man will come on the clouds of heaven and gather the elect
from the four winds. And yeah, yeah, yeah. So eventually transitioned to full preterism that
made a lot of people upset. It was not enough that I stopped going to church and still had
this circle around me. And I was I was hardcore into that, like the communities I was associating
with online, the ones that promote full preterism online at this time, there is a definite sense
of arrogance to them, this idea that they've got it figured out, you don't they're the elite,
you're not. And I'm kind of getting baited into thinking that way. I think, fortunately,
just pure circumstantial, for myself, I was not in a community that agreed with that. Most of
these people was meeting online that that taught full preterism or beliefful preterism, they were
in a community of Christians that believed that they were part of these churches that actually
taught such things. And this is on Facebook, right? Facebook, my space, or transit, or guide out
chat rooms, that kind of thing. But yeah, they they they had support groups, if you want to call
it that for their theology, where I was this one person in a vast sea of fundamentalist Christians
who are all futurists, and I'm the one preterist, as far as I know, right, the one who's willing to
talk about it anyway. So I was developing this sense of arrogance, because that's what I was
learning from this community I was interacting with online. But because I didn't have this
support around me in day to day life, it made it easier to start questioning them when things
they were saying didn't make sense. Because I started noticing that the way futurists will
take parts of the Bible that they say is literal, but they're really reading it in a really weird
way. That's not literal at all. I noticed that preterists have to do the same thing, just kind
of on the other side of the coin. Once I started noticing this, it's like, well, maybe maybe they
don't have it figured out. Maybe there is something wrong with their theology. And how long would you
say you were in that kind of, I don't know if you want to call it a middle sitting on the fence
between partial preterism and full preterism? Were you sitting on the fence or would you call
yourself a full preterist? At one point, I would say I was a full preterist. And that might, me
being convinced of that maybe was about two years. I was literally reading articles written by full
preterist almost daily for a year or so, just because I have to make sense of this and I have
to make sense of that. And it eventually became really exhausting because at this point, I'm
desperate to understand this really weird book in the Bible and this theology of the end times.
And at some point, I realized the more I'm getting answers from these people over here,
or these people over here, they have their systems that make sense to them. But the more that
it makes sense to them, the less it's starting to make sense to me.
This is, I'm glad this is a nugget. Hey, attention, if you're watching, I love this.
So emphasizing a point just to give examples for each side. You talked about soon,
futurists say soon, a day is as a thousand years, and they have scriptural precedents that help
them make their case. Death, literal for futurist, preterism, spiritual death, and in the day that
you eat, you will surely die. Did they die? That's the starting point. They start with that point
and nail that down through the Bible to try and make it clear. Well, sometimes death means
literal as long as it doesn't budge with our preterism. And then they get to these passages,
there will be no more death, having to interpret it through some type of interpretation that they
thought made sense of Genesis. So like you have to literalize certain things, spiritualize others,
and vice versa. And both systems can find examples to back up their claim, death is spiritual.
Look, Paul says we were dead in our trespasses and sins, like we're already dead. And they'll find
these things, and then they use the Bible to interpret the Bible as a jigsaw puzzle to make
it all work. Let's interpret Revelation through Matthew 24 and Mark 13. Let's interpret that
through Daniel. And Daniel's got to be 490 years from the time we want it to start so that it matches
70 AD. The list goes on and on and on. But you're noticing the confidence on both ends and their
arguments on both ends. Something's not computing for you. Yeah, it was just that I started noticing
that for everything that preterist would criticize futurist for believing or that futurist would
criticize preterist for believing, they're doing the same thing, just with different parts of the
Bible, like you said. This part over here, well, Paul uses the word sleep as a metaphor for death.
That means when he's talking about these people over here being Christians who are sleeping,
meaning his contemporaries who are being relaxed with their theology, he was really saying they're
dead. And if they're dead, he must mean spiritually dead and so on, like just jumping
through hoops to make everything work together. But the end result is you have this incredibly
convoluted system of interpretation, where if one little thing, like you pull one little thread,
it all falls apart. I don't like using the House of Cards analogy most times. But in this case,
it really started to feel like that, that you're building this really elaborate structure and
it's so easy to find one loose card at the bottom and it all falls down. No matter which theology
you end up taking. I can't emphasize how powerful what you're saying is and what this means to me
hearing you say it because I say it and it may go over most people's heads. I'm sure some get it.
But you're so serious and so obsessed in figuring this out and noticing the details and wanting
to be right with God's word that all of your criticisms have not been internally to God's word.
It's always been about systems of interpretation about it. We haven't even gotten to the point
where something, I imagine, in your psyche, in your journey, where you look to the Bible itself
and evaluate it and realizing, oh, that's got to happen at some point in your journey.
So I imagine we're getting there. Yeah. So I want to say 2014 or so, maybe 2015 is about when I
decided to kind of step back from, I don't want to say the obsession, because I will admit it's
kind of an obsession for me, but kind of an attempt to be deliberately humble about the fact
that I don't have these answers, that there's so much information that I obviously don't know.
There's something I'm missing and these systems are not finding whatever that is.
Like they're offering answers and they're not making sense and this one offers answers and
there's something wrong with it. So I just kind of step back like, I don't know if I can really
agree with any of these. There's parts of this one that I really, really agree with,
Preterism, but there's things over here in Futurism that some of the things that they're
saying are legitimate, like the idea that there's still problems in the world. There's still
to use Christian vernacular, there's still sin, world powers, wars, death, disease, plague,
everything. It's all still here. So Preterism or at least full Preterism doesn't work and even
partial Preterism I was starting to notice holes with that, at least in the forms that I was being
taught. So I tried to make this conscious attempt to step back and try to distance myself from any
of these systems and just kind of relax about trying to find super detailed, clear cut answers
about every little detail in Revelation or Daniel or Mark 13 or whatever it was.
Instead of trying to make a big old system where everything intricately fit together in the perfect
way, I just decide like, well, I'm going to read Revelation and I'll try to see what it means on
its own. And then another day I'll go read Mark 13 and see what it means on its own instead of
trying to make them fit together. And I think around this time is when I finally started getting
cracks in the idea that the Bible is infallible and inerrant, that I don't have to try and make
everything work. I don't have to try and find a reason for why it's 100% true. God told the
author what to write 2000, 3000 years ahead of time, just read it for what it is, read it for
what it meant according to the author. And if it doesn't agree with something else in the Bible,
then it just doesn't agree. And that doesn't have to be a problem. That was what my approach was
at that point. And over the next two or three years, that eventually compounded where I decided
it was a very, I still remember this day, I was at home doing laundry, just walking from the laundry
room up to my bedroom to full clothes, my wife and kids are out of town, or not out of town,
out of the house, they're doing something out in town. And I just have this silent conversation in
my own head, where I had recently been reading the apocalypse titled Fourth Ezra. Fourth Ezra is
just another ancient Jewish book that talks about the end times. And it makes these predictions
about what will happen. And I discovered it only recently at that point. I also found that there's
a whole bunch of literature about it. And I'm trying to read these articles and commentaries
that are explaining what this book is and where it came from, what it means. And at some point,
around early 2018, while I'm doing laundry, I just had this silent conversation in my head,
and I realized I am not reading parts of the Bible, any parts of the Bible,
the way I read Fourth Ezra. Revelation of John, it's written almost within the decade of Fourth
Ezra. It's the same genre. It uses a lot of the same literary tropes. And despite all of this,
I am still holding onto this idea that Revelation is somehow exceptional, that it's special and
unique, that it tells us divinely inspired truth about the end times and Fourth Ezra doesn't.
Even though by any outside observation, these books are the same kind of thing. And in that
moment, I realized I can't trust the Bible anymore. Like as a theological position, I do not see it as
containing divinely inspired truth. I see it as a collection of documents written by people over
two or three thousand years. And it just reflects their own beliefs in their own time periods. And
there's no grand elaborate system of theology that can make any of it make sense. And at that moment,
I realize I'm agnostic. I can't trust any of it. I don't know if any of it's true. I don't believe
most of it's true. And beyond that, I don't know what else is out there. I don't know why in my
head, while you said this, a sweater with a thread, like a loose string. And you just started
pulling and the whole sweater just started to fall apart as it unraveled from that one string.
Because that was fascinating, the way you painted the picture and how you treated
subconsciously, just habit wise. This is in my canon that I was raised and taught with Scripture
and believed was sacred and trained myself to think was sacred. I opened up a book that's not
my canon. It walks and talks and looks and acts just like this other book that is. This one's not
divine, but this one is. And you caught yourself doing really special pleading in your own mind
and saying, no, I'm done lying. I'm done pretending. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to approach
this like I would any other literature. And almost every book in the Bible, you could find
some type of precedent in other literature in the ancient Near East, for example, or even
non-canonical materials that are similar in nature to a lot of what's being written there.
Jubilees were dealing with another genesis. There's so many different kinds of books that you go,
what, what, what. So I love that you did that and you're now agnostic. I kind of wondered about yours
if you became kind of a theist in some sense, but just not a Bible-believing Christian type
of theist, but you're saying you went agnostic. Can you tell us more about that?
I want to say it was a near immediate, just my all theology that I had just completely
dissipated almost in a moment. Wow. Where I had been slowly going through deconstruction of other
parts of my theology over the previous decade and a half along with End Times, but End Times had
always been the centerpiece, but conversations with friends or reading articles from I'm getting
more into actual critical academic scholarship and not just, you know, I've long since left
behind apologics at this point and realizing like there's this thing in my theology that
all the answers I've been given, none of them make sense. So I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna be
agnostic about that. So agnostic just kind of became this way that I approached things where I
don't have the answers to. So I'll just kind of step back and let it be. What's the, what's the
exact way that God accomplishes salvation through the crucifixion of Jesus? Yeah,
substitutionary penal atonement. You have Christus Victor, you have ransom theory,
you have all these other theological positions you can have. I don't really know which one's
correct. So I'll be agnostic about it. So for me, End Times prophecy had always been the centerpiece
closely followed by things like the resurrection or the divinity of Jesus, just the, the amazing
death to the letters of Paul, like no mere mortal could write such complex literature.
Yeah, it was just, it was just the afternoon on like a Tuesday, doing laundry, whatever day it
was, I don't know. And it just, it all disappeared almost all at once. Did your wife, did you tell
her, did you get to speak to someone about it? I think when I finished the laundry, I pulled out
my phone, I called her up and said, Hey, I think I'm agnostic now. I just, I, I've always had this
uh, value of being kind of bluntly honest with my wife about most things, most anything. And
this had always been a, like we met through church. So it only seemed fair to talk to her
about that. And I don't want to say she was unsurprised, but she would probably say it was
a natural conclusion to what had been going on with me for the previous 15 years. Only 15 years.
So you, you went down this path and you went to an agnostic position, but you don't stop there,
as we all don't, that are crazy people like us. We went from Jesus freaks to some other kind of
freak. We're now looking into it with critical scholarship and that desire to wanting to know,
but actually know, never stops. It just takes it to a different level. Do you feel that you've
acquired a whole different level of know about this material now through the critical scholarship?
So if I were to ask you, put the Tim LaHaze or whatever form, partial predatorism, full
predatorism, whatever, these kinds of versions of, of commentaries and books and sermons and such
next to critical scholarship. I already know what your, your answers, but I'd love to get
you elaborate here, which one was closer to reality and the facts on the ground in your view
and then feel free to take it wherever you want. Definitely the critical scholarship.
After I had the call with my wife and I, you know, we talked and she wasn't judging or anything,
which was really relieving. I had this really definitive clarity of having been freed from
having to hold convictions to things that I didn't have the answers to and that I was allowed to
now look outside the box finally, that I could do it without worrying about challenging my faith
or upsetting people. It's just, I just want to know the answers. That's all it is. It's just a,
I'll call it intellectual academic, but it's fun. Instead of, instead of being the basis for my
life's decisions and my personal morality and things like that, it's just fun. That's all it is.
So yeah, critical scholarship, no comparison. I think it's still interesting to look at
fundamentalists and other theological positions on these topics, these questions,
but more from that critical side that like, that's where I'm approaching it from to see
looking for patterns, but not the way that they do. They're looking for patterns in history and
making the, like connecting these dots in their theology to make these elaborate systems
where I'm now able to look on that and try to find the patterns and how humans adapt their minds
to information that makes them uncomfortable or information that makes them feel certain.
So you're dealing with, just feel free to jump in and correct anything I'm saying.
You're interested in why humans are doing this. Why are we doing these things?
How we deal with these problems in various ways by cognitive dissonance and other things,
similar to Matt Harky, our buddy, who's big on that. Yeah, and I actually met online
having these discussions in 2007. Oh, so he and you were Christian at the time,
clearly, if you're that far back. His deconstruction ran right parallel with mine. For me, it was
mostly in time. For him, it was mostly the resurrection. Interesting. So you're into that.
You know what's weird and I want to throw it out there. I don't know if you have the same kind
of piqued interest. For me, it was also looking at a pattern of trying to situate. We talked about
how you read different material outside the canon and saw that you weren't treating the Bible the
same. Well, I was trying to treat these texts the same if they had a similar genre or even themes,
tropes, you know, elements that may be overlapping. And initially it was more French stuff that I
was completely sucked into that was just the zeitgeist, the DM Murdoch type material to getting
a much more critical approach, still on the fringe in many ways, but then becoming more
central and not so, I guess you say better educated on it. And now I'm realizing, oh my gosh,
there's so much correlation with other mythology, because mythology means,
in my mind, right, that this is not what happened historically. This is,
this is not what literally happened in that literalness. That was shocking to realize that
these things didn't happen. So you go to the full side that none of them happened. And they're all
secret stories about the sun, moon and stars or some other extreme to actually, I don't buy that
at either anymore. I'm actually in this position where I'm trying to understand this from a scholarly
point of view. And you also seem to have some overlap with that as well. mythology has always
been an interest of mine. I remember one of the rare non Christian type of academic type things
I was allowed to buy as a kid was a book on constellations, which included a lot of information
about Greek mythology. And, you know, as a kid, Star Wars mythology, you know, before the Disney
buyout and they erased it all. Legend of Zelda, I like that was the kind of thing that I was into
was trying to make the games stories work together as a single linear story and the mythology of like
where does this thing come from in the in that world that lore. So that's always been an interest
of mine is mythos as a topic as a concept. And eventually that's what Christianity has kind of
become for me is a mythology. And I don't think that's an accurate word to use. You know, there's
a lot of historical grounding to things in the Bible, but it's mythology. It's them building a
worldview out of things that are not historically accurate or historically true. Some of it is
just outright fiction. And I don't think that should be offensive to say like the book of Jonah
is not historical. Book of Job is not historical. Thank you for fictional stories that they're
telling, but they're not telling them to lie to each other. They're telling them to make sense
of their world. And I think that is a large part of what drove early apocalyptic theology books like
Revelation or 4th Ezra or the book of Enoch. Even John Collins today. I interviewed John Collins
earlier today on Daniel and I just had to nail him down on how do we know Daniel was wrong? Like
what did he get wrong? And of course, Antiochus 4th Epiphanes, you know, didn't die between the Holy
Mountain and the sea. He died in the East and it wasn't during a war or anything like, you know,
like he gets things wrong. But what he said about earlier stories in Daniel, which we would say are
fanciful and whatnot, and getting some of this material wrong, he even goes out of his way and
you know, I tend to take his word when it comes to Daniel, at least mostly saying this guy's
probably right on the money and even leaves open room for things we aren't sure about. And he says
this in the interview after 40 something years and he wrote the amazing commentary on this.
And he says, I don't even think Daniel was trying to write something in the sense of actual history.
He even thinks in some of these cases, Daniel knows what he's doing purposefully, like purposefully
pulling. It's like today, people write about George Washington, he uses this analogy, George
Washington did this and this and this, really some obscure, not popular figure actually did those
things. He just apply it and have him become the black hole that sucks in that attribute.
Like David and Goliath, Elhanan, a weird dude in the Bible, but it says he killed Goliath,
but nobody knows Elhanan. So his story is transferred to David because David's the hero.
He's he's the king. So you give him the grandiose adventure, killing the giant. That's that's one
point that actually became kind of interesting to me reading Revelation as part of this larger
genre, Daniel as well, that one of the tropes that this genre uses is the literary character
as a stand in for the author. And Revelation of John might be an example of this. It's one of
those things that there's not really a lot of agreement with in scholarship. But for example,
taking the book of Daniel, Daniel as a person probably did not exist. And Daniel in the book
of Daniel is a literary character. He is more or less an invention of one or more authors,
but he's kind of a stand in for the author so that the author can speak to his readers by
telling these relatable stories and give giving them the this mythos, this divine information
that is being revealed in secret. And when you talk about apocalypses and being written by people
who are using pseudonyms, you know, like Daniel was not written by Daniel, Daniel was written by
some other guy pretending to be Dan. You're accused of saying that these authors are liars.
I don't think that's really what was going on in this genre. If it's one author pretending to be
Daniel or somebody else, okay, maybe they're trying to trick you. But when it's nearly every
single book in the genre doing that, it's a trope. And the authors know it and their readers probably
knew it too, that they knew this guy Daniel wasn't the real author. He's a character. They knew
the revelation of Abraham wasn't literally written by Abraham. He's a character in the story of the
book. So Enoch, Enoch, it's not it's not authors trying to lie or deceive their readers in most
cases. It's part of their storytelling. It's part of their mythology that they're building. It's a
deliberate conscious thing where it helps connect with the readers and helps them make sense of
things better. There's so much like we could get into and go into. You said you were agnostic. Have
you changed your view since now having the liberty, the freedom for those who are tracking what you're
putting down? You're able to explore and go in an area you just were never allowed to go. Have you
come to a different conclusion now or do you still remain there, but you have more stronger
opinions about certain things? What were you at? I would still consider myself agnostic. I was very
hesitant at first to use this word, but I would say I'm atheistic. I would not call myself outright
an atheist because I don't think that is, in my opinion, I don't think that is intellectually
honest to say I know there's no God. There could be one. I just, I don't know if there's one,
which is why I prefer the term agnostic, but I call myself atheistic in regards to
religions that exist. In regards to Christianity, I am atheistic or Judaism or Islam or Zoroastrianism
or whatever. I do not believe that those religions are true in the sense that they tell us literal
actual historical facts about the creator of the universe and ancient events and where it all goes
and what it all means. I think that they can have social value. I think that they can have
a purpose in helping people reflect on themselves and their morals, but I would not say that I
believe any of them. I would say that I know they're not correct because using Christianity as the
example, because that's what I'm most familiar with, too much of the New Testament can be argued
against or parts of the Gospels are historically inaccurate. They don't work in the time and
place that they're supposed to take place in. Revelation of John, I think, is easy to demonstrate
is not, like, it can't be fulfilled. As much as the author expects it to be a prophecy about the
end times, it can't be. There's things in it that are not factual. And if they're not factual in my
21st Analytical Mindset, then it's not true. In that way, I would call myself atheistic, but
in regards to the grand scheme of the whole universe and where all things came from and
whether there might be invisible green beans out there, agnostic. Yeah, I lean. Obviously,
I'm atheistic. I call myself an atheist. I don't mean in the philosophical sense. I know there are
no deities in a universal way. You know that the definition can be flexible and people can
use it in different colloquial ways and more generic ways. I do have this kind of weight inside
my mind, like an intuition, which the world can be very counterintuitive. But when you realize
how man made all of these systems are and all of the gods based upon them are and their reflections
of the human imagination and the human cognition and the human perception and stuff, I can't help
but think that the God itself is the illusion of man and that that is what it is. So it's hard for
me to even categorize anything. It's like I almost want to go with the philosophical definition of
atheism in my mind because I don't think there is that what we call a God there. As far as a
universal nature or some universal principle or something of that sort, is there a being outside?
It's hard for me to even conceive. I don't know that there's not as you just point out,
but I go that route pretty hard right now. I'm thinking humans are great at creating these things,
but sometimes you pinch yourself and go, wow, this experience is crazy. And what if I'm missing
something? I'm a primate that evolved to survive on this planet. You know what I'm saying. So it's
it's even as an agnostic who has where where religion as a concept is more of just an
intellectual curiosity than something I identify with. It's still sometimes tempting to appeal to
the God of the gaps that for for anything where we don't have an answer to, you can just say, well,
God, you just fill in the blank. It's because of God. You know, one of the weirdest things to me
is like you just said, anything exists. Why does anything exist? Either your things exist or they
don't. And whatever the reason for that is, whether it's God or anything else, it's just kind of crazy
that it does. So in a question like that, it's kind of tempting to just say, maybe there is some kind
of supreme thing out there that is the cause for all of this to exist. But at the same time, it's
like, well, we don't know. Yeah, we don't know why speculate that answer. I was going to bed one
night thinking about that. Why does why is there something rather than nothing? And I think like
for two or three hours, I couldn't go to sleep. This was a few years back. And I'm not a big
philosophy guru, but I have friends who are. And I felt like I'd come to the answer. It's so crazy.
You could be like, what? Now, obviously, I'm not saying I have the answer, like I know what the
answer to that question is. I'm saying, I think my answer ended up being this question is wrong.
The question is wrong in what I come to a conclusion in my head that night. I'll probably
revisit it and who knows where I'll be at for the rest of my life with this question. But
the question has to be wrong in my mind because something does exist. And to assume that we need
that why, how or if there ever even was a beginning for existence, the shocking fact is it exists.
And I think that it just made me realize like, why is there something rather than nothing assumes
there could have been nothing, but there's something. And I thought by the end of that night, I said,
actually, in my mind, I don't think that there could have been nothing. So why are we saying
why is there something rather than nothing when nothing is not an option? All we have is that it
exists. And to me, the hypothetically assume that it couldn't have existed may be absolutely
false. And why am I even speculating that it couldn't have? Because it does. You see how my
nutty mind was working there. So I thought the question was wrong. Once I thought about it for
three or four hours going to bed, trying to wrap my head around it and just went, I don't even see
how nothing could exist. It's all like a hypothetical like why isn't cheese, you know, oranges? And
it's like, well, oranges aren't cheese. And you know, why are we trying to say, well, what if
oranges were cheese or something? Like, you know what I mean? Like, it just didn't make sense to
me. We have a sample set of one. If this is all we know, we don't have anything else to compare
it against. Exactly. So why are we hypothesizing? What if it wasn't one? You know, and that's my
head at least. But then again, who knows, someone smarter down the road might solve
something to that effect. I don't think they'll ever have the answer to this question. I really
don't think I don't know how it's possible to know that. Is there anything in your whole journey,
it sounds like apocalypticism, revelation, eschatology, of course, the study of last things
was one of the main pivotal points in getting you to finally be critical of your Bible,
and then of course, be critical to the whole thing. Any advice for someone who might be going
through a similar journey? What are your thoughts? Depending on what stage they're at, you know,
like if they're in that early fundamentalist mindset where they're watching your video as an
anti, like a counter apologetics thing, they're watching this to find the arguments to argue
against to convince themselves to stay where they are. For somebody in that stage, I would say just
kind of be reflective of what you're doing right now. Like, why are you doing this? Are you looking
for these answers because you want the answers? Or are you looking for these answers because you
have questions and you don't want to have those questions? Like, is it the pursuit of the answer
or is it the pursuit of defending where you're at right now? That you want to keep the status quo
or you want to grow? And in that kind of situation, I would say try to grow. Try to break out of that
box because whatever your authority that you want to respect, you can be respectful while also
disagreeing with it. You can respect those pastors and the answers that they have while
disagreeing with what they're trying to say. That you are allowed to ask questions and you're allowed
to challenge yourself and wind up in, you know, believing things or pursuing ideas that you might
be discouraged from. If it's somebody later in life, maybe they're in the process of deconstruction,
I would say just keep doing it and see where you end up. Don't be afraid of what the end result might
be. At a certain point, I was desperate to keep the status quo for myself, for my theology, that I
was feeling threatened by changes in my ideas and my thoughts and praying desperately for God
to solve these things. But that didn't stop me from asking the questions that I felt were necessary
to ask. Just keep going that way. Just see where you end up. It doesn't have to be where I am,
doesn't have to be where Derek is. It can be, you can end up in your own spot that's unique to you,
but as long as you're pursuing the answers for the sake of the answers and not just to protect
your theology, I think it's worthwhile. I love that. Go wherever you need to go. Just be honest
with yourself. Be free with yourself. You know, I've heard one of these wise things, some of the
older people in life who've gone through it. It's almost like we learn too late. We learn once it's
getting to the end of our life. We now know the answer and now we've got to go. We've got to say
bye. And it's like they always usually say something really deep like, be easy on yourself.
You know, don't take yourself too serious. Don't burden yourself too much. Take it easy. Enjoy it.
And I feel like I know a little bit of that, you know, like I'm trying to do that now.
But I feel like that's the word of encouragement you're kind of getting at and saying, look,
we don't care what you are. Theist, pantheist, atheist, agnostic, deist. It doesn't matter
ist, what ist or nonist you want to be. As long as you're being honest with yourself and you're
treating yourself right and realizing you're being honest along the way, because I think that's
what we want, right? Anyone who's listened this long, who's a Bible nerd or a freak like we are,
you know, we just want the truth. And sometimes that can be scary when you're taught these ideas.
But we're we're here to say it isn't bad. If anything, it's better in our opinion on the other
side. But, you know, don't be afraid to follow that path. There's no, you're not going to die
because of it. There's no like, you know what I'm saying, those fears that they try to warn you of.
I do sometimes joke with friends who have only recently discovered I'm not a Christian anymore.
They ask, what happened? And I tell them, I thought myself to death.
Well, is there any way people can follow you, find you, read you, you know, obviously, we have the
documentary coming out. And that's all you, man. I mean, obviously, I'll be doing visuals and
making the editing happen. And just my voice reading your script. But is there any way in
which you put yourself out there? I do have a website that I it's probably my longest running
version of my online presence for biblical studies. It's titled a Bible darkly dot com
couple times a year, maybe three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10 times a year.
Depending on my mood, I will dig into some weird, obscure, bizarre part of the Bible and
or just whatever it ends up grabbing my interest and try to figure out what it means.
Because even after all this time, there's still stuff in the Bible that weirds me out.
Absolutely. Did you see my latest documentary on Adam and Eve?
I haven't watched it yet. Oh, man, I think you're going to be a little bit like, yeah,
this is what gets me. And it's, again, mythology stuff. But it's all about this obscure
passage, well, obscure tablet in New Garrett that kind of got overlooked, according to these two
scholars in KTU 1100 and KTU 1107 about the God L on the high mountain. This serpent comes, bites
the man and envelops the earth or the garden, really, the whole world at the time in a fog.
The gods do not have a remedy. So they have to summon the underworld deity, Horanu. Most
people have never even heard of this god, Horanu, come to find out there are two cities with the
name Horan, H-O-R-O-N. And the etymology, a lot of times, geography leaves remnants of a deity or
things. Jerusalem is Salem, right? This aru, aru, they found a tablet, aru, aru, Salem.
Man, it's this rabbit hole that I know you'll love and I know everyone else will.
So I haven't heard of that tablet, so I'm going to have to check that out.
Definitely. Well, Mark Edwards, everybody, I hope that you leave a nice comment,
tell him what you liked about his story and what you personally got out of it. I'm curious to hear
because there's something about connecting to that experience with others on this journey.
We're all just trying to seek truth. You could say we had sinful motivations and we had the, you
know... Oh, I hear that all the time. Yeah, but you can tell the obsession over knowledge and
understanding that really reigns supreme and they'll find any excuse to pigeonhole your poison the
well to make it about something other than that. And it's really not. It's about this deep, deep
love for truth. And when we say truth, what the reality is. And yet, once you discover that,
you'll find there's so much more to be discovered that you just weren't granting yourself permission
to check out. So thank you. I hope for having me. It was great. Have a good one, everybody.
