Dom let's talk about Josephus
There's so much we could be said he's written a lot and of course through Josephus
Interpretations run rampant. So in your book render unto Caesar. I highly recommend it. Gotta get a copy
You want to take a deep dive into Josephus and he kind of does
Flip floppity stuff weird things. So I'm gonna let you explore Josephus for us
Okay, and I'm just here as a student list. All right when back up when I first read Josephus's Jewish war
This would be in the 50s as a student. What struck me immediately. I'm reading Irish history
Everything that the Irish had done
Nonviolent violent terrorists against the British say in the 18th centuries in the 1800s. I meant the 19th century
They were there
Which which made me know, okay? I
Recognize this world is the world of a small colony taking on a great empire and probably going to be crushed in the process, but anyway
Let me say why I got into Josephus
After I got into the book the second and third
Section we have two absolutely different ideas of how to to acculturate the Rome. It's absolutely diabolical
As far as revelation, it's canonized almost in Luke acts now. I wanted to get to Jesus
But it seemed
Seemed silly after I've been in the New Testament and they show totally different
What's the point in going in and finding a third one in John's gospel or Paul?
Some he's going to say well, they're all making it up. So forget it. So I said, okay as a tactical maneuver
Let me go outside the New Testament completely and try and find out what Jewish
Author like Josephus has to say if anything about Jesus then we get to the gospel
But let's start with Josephus. So that was the tactic now. It was not because I think Josephus is better than the gospel
But immediately when you're using Josephus if you're using him critically as you should of course you're trying to understand them
So in my critically Josephus says for example clearly
God has given power to the Roman Empire
Verbatim I quote him do not rebel against the Roman Empire in any way shape or form of your rebelling against God
Furthermore
The rule of the Roman Empire has been given to the Flavian dynasty the new dynasty after the Julius Claudians ended from Augustus to
Nero and now all of a sudden we've got
Vespasian Titus and Domitian the new one has arrived and
God says Josephus has not only given power to Rome but Roman power to the Flavians and furthermore he comes up with this
Makes me gasp
We used to believe that somebody from our land would become the ruler of the world
This is the way he defines a messiah. We now know that was Vespasian
Who was on our land?
From our land as conqueror when he went to Rome to become emperor. It's a breathtaking piece of impertinence. I
Don't think the Jewish tradition can ever forgive him for that one. Vespasian is the messiah. Okay, that's Josephus now
Twice just well Josephus mentions John the Baptist
He mentions Jesus of Nazareth and he mentions James the brother of Jesus James the good who is
Executed in 62
Those are the only but he never mentions Peter or Paul by the way
You wouldn't know they existed if you just had Josephus, but he does mention Jesus twice and
There is the discussion whether his first mention of Jesus
That's the longer one in the beginning of the Jewish war. I think it's book 18 whether that has been a complete Christian interpolation
It's been debated some people think it is some people think it isn't some people think it has been slightly tampered with I
Think slightly tampered with is the more accurate one because basically
The idea that there was a Jesus he started a movement
He was executed to end the movement, but the movement continued is exactly the same for things that Tacitus says for example
That's the Roman story about who these weirdo Christians are their followers of this Christ who had the movement over there in Judea
We crucified him and didn't work the movement continued. That's the basic thing the Roman elites knew about
Christianity say around the year 100
I don't want to detour you but there are people who want to say that they think it's authentic the whole thing and
They want to say that maybe Josephus himself actually agreed with it or something
If if somebody wants to say it's authentic, I'm not going to argue
But you notice how we end up doing all the time. Let's have the argument about whether it's wholly authentic
partially authentic, so
No, could we talk about the content first?
You know, so I'm not debating with you, but no, no, no
I noticed that there's so many of these discussions you make up your mind about it
But then even if you wipe out that first mention, let's go to parts of chapter 20 20
I think 200 where he's not talking about Jesus at all. He's talking about James the just Jesus is their brother as
Maybe his older brother
And to explain who he is. He says he's the brother of Jesus called the Christ
Called the Christ our nickname the Christ if you will
So that would make me think we kind of are supposed to know who this is
He has to explain it because I don't know there's a dozen Jesuses of that name in Josephus, so he has to say what Jesus
But he says the Christ he doesn't say
the brother of Jesus
Jesus called the Christ. I would expect him by I'm surprised. He doesn't say
The brother of Jesus whom I talked about earlier because he tends to do that quite a lot from refer back to himself
He doesn't refer back to it, but he says Jesus Christ
So I have these two things in Jesus
The first one is explaining who Christians are. That's all he wants to do and their followers of the Christ
But now he's done something. He has already said that persuasion is the Messiah
He doesn't use that term, but he says he's supposed to be the king of the world
That's a Greek word for the Messiah and Jesus is the Christ
So we now we got two messiahs. I
Don't know if Josephus is aware of this, but he set up a problem. He's just omitted Jesus was the Messiah
So in the light of that I am inclined to take at least
Whatever amount you want to take of
that story as
Authentic and there's the deep background to this that in
Jewish tradition did not preserve Josephus
They preferred to forget all of that first century
Those wars that almost destroyed their homeland and their temple and everything has not even talk about that
Let's talk about, you know, Jewish holiness
So if Josephus had not been preserved by Christians
We wouldn't have Josephus. We just wouldn't there's no no Jewish text of Josephus
So around the year 1200 and round numbers, there was a great interest in Latin
translations of Josephus
Latins and they always put them in the manuscripts that put them in the order
Josephus Jewish antiquities Jewish war even though that's the reverse are the written
Because here's what they're thinking we over here have the Christian Old Testament and the Christian New Testament
Here we have a Jew
Jewish author who has the antiquities of the Jews kind of parallel to our own
Testament corroborating it and then we have the Jewish war
Corroborates, this is where it can turn nasty. See they crucified our Jesus. Look what happened to Jerusalem
that for Jesus, so they were using Josephus as a
As a valid validation of their own Bible
They had a vested interest in not tampering too much
So if I were to throw
The the argument anyway, I would throw it towards non tampering
Because otherwise they destroy their own point and all of these Latin texts. There's there's a huge industry creating Latin texts
Why would they do that and then French translations?
That's why the French the National Library in Paris has some of the best of them and
It's also very nice to make them available on the web
Because they wanted Josephus as corroboration for the whole Christian Bible
So they've invested interest in non tampering if I had to vote absolutely
All or nothing. It's either all in or all out. I'd go with all in
It could be Josephus is very careful not to offend people if he doesn't have to offend them
If there's a lot of powerful Jewish Christians in Rome and he's writing
He's not going to offend them. He won't be as scornful
as
Tacitus is by saying that Christianity is an infection and infection spread. No great problem. It's just an infection
It's just something rotten
Everything rotten sisters
Tacitus comes to Rome eventually. No, I
Think there's a vested interest in Christians not tampering with Josephus because it corroborates their Bible and they can use it as
Collaboration corroboration. I meant sorry
So Josephus you go even further in your book and showing you're using Josephus to show these militant and
Non-militant that we've discussed in previous episodes
But how you see this how you talk about the Christians here and the 1200s are flipping the order
But in reality each of those books is actually doing something different to a different audience one speaking to the Romans as if he's
anti-Jewish almost yeah, pro-Roman I
Won't go so far to say anti-Jewish, but in summer. Yeah, he's definitely
Trying to tone it down and then the others antiquities. He's pro-Jewish and anti-Roman
If you wanted to be a little over simplified
The Jewish war is written to defend Romans to Jews and the Jewish antiquities is to defend Jews to Romans
That's a little bit over simplified, but but the Greeks do but yes, that's the way it is. I mean, he's he is walking a title
He gives seven seven volumes
To the Romans but 20 to the Jews so and then contraappian against Appian
Defends it to the sneering Greeks. So yeah, I mean
I'm going to say thank God for Josephus. Thank God we've got him. It would be a giant hole in the first century
But let me draw it
Attention to something I
Think in the first century as far as I can see now. We're not talking about Jesus
Jewish tradition invented something called nonviolent resistance
At least I don't know and I'm this not a rhetorical quiz
I don't know anywhere it is as a
Massive organized principle before the first century individuals of course could do nonviolent resistance
but as an organized principle after
the war of four
Whenever there was an armed rebellion a violent rebellion
The either the Syrian legions would come south with fire and brimstone to teach you people a lesson as the worst
So we won't have to come back again soon. Are the Egyptian legions would come up
There were no legions in the Jewish homeland, but there were on each border. So for BC
Rebellions at the death of her the great all over the Jewish homeland
Legions came south crucified two thousand of the leaders in Jerusalem
Six CE
When the census was put in when our class was dumped out and a Roman governor came in to Samaria, Judea and Eremia
And the tax came in and the census for taxation
There was a nonviolent rebellion
The reason I know it was non-violence is first of all the legions didn't March
Police action could stop this but in that period between six like sorry between four BCE
And 66 70 years there was massive organized nonviolent resistance experiments
including probably John the Baptist by the way, it's all in Josephus, but
Josephus remember is totally against any opposition to Rome
Any opposition in fact he's a bit more tolerant of
Rebellion against Rome because that that happens, you know rebellions happen Rome puts them down shouldn't do it
But it happens
He describes the non violent rebellion people non-violent resistance, let's say as having
Pure our hands because there's no blood on it, but in pure our hearts
Because they're devious. They're using non-violent resistance
And Rome isn't Rome is geared to send the legions. That's that's what they're sitting there for
They're in their camps out of Antioch waiting to go out. That's their job
But none what do you do with non-violent resistance if a whole massive crowd sits down
Outside Caesarea Philippi and tells pilot we won't move
Until you do X
What's he gonna do attack them?
die as martyrs
so non violent resistance backed by martyrdom if unfortunately necessary is
Invented as far as I can see in the Jewish tradition in that 70 year period and when we talk about the non-violent Jesus
We are absolutely not saying he invented it
He's programming his vision of God's rule on earth being present
Into that non-violent experimentation as John the Baptist is by the way as well
That's why Pirate will execute Jesus but not round up his followers
Antiperson will execute
John not round up his followers
Hmm
There's so much here. I mean obviously there's some type of foundation for what we call martyrdom
There there's a foundation for dying for just causes as a hero things like that
But what you're specifically uniquely describing you're saying is a program that is developed at this time
I think that's a really interesting thing to think about because when I was reading a can canada's
Masses work. Yeah, the myth of persecution
She also came out and did an episode she was pointing out like the front the frameworks there, but
Monopolize the word martyrdom comes by Christians a little later. She said
And it may may stem from the fact that there's this unique program
It makes me want to ask if Jesus really wanted to die
Okay, because if he is I mean, I'd love to get your person. Yeah before we talk about Jesus
Yeah, let me go back. Please go back to what we were talking about Josephus
For example when Caligula tries to put his statue into the temple and Petronius takes two legions
They know the trouble with the statue coming south and Joseph
Petronius been a good aristocrat governor of Syria stalls like mad risks his own life because he knows this was this would have started the year
the war of 66 and in the winter of 41 so
They go I follow and Josephus tells them when men women and children sit down and say
We're not moving because if you destroy our temple
Desigrate our temple ruin the traditions of our parents. We might will die
They tell them I mean you can read the text in Josephus and in phylo. They're inviting martyrdom
No, I don't know what would have happened if Petronius
Had turned the legions on them. I don't know would they have fled would have taken up stones
I don't know what would have happened if Caligula hadn't been assassinated and Petronius
escaped death by this because of disobedience to
But they did this so that's martyrdom and it's in the Jewish tradition now
when you turn to the
The Roman tradition and Christians it is absolutely true that there is no imperial
Program or practice of martyrdom until about the year 250
That doesn't mean there isn't as I said before I think nasty local programs
Of course, these people don't fit in they're different
That could happen, but there's not massive martyrdom now, of course
one martyr is
Enough if the however if the movement can be based on it as we well know
It only takes one person to be claimed to be a martyr and you're a martyr if you're killed for your faith as a Jew or a Christian
Of course to make a mystique of martyrdom
Of course I
There was no imperial such one, but somebody like
Ignatius of Antioch who wrote write seven letters
He's trying to outdo Paul almost seven letters as he travels across Asia Minor towards martyrdom in Rome
Of course, that's going to be huge. That's why he's writing the letters to all of these churches
He is making himself a program
But it doesn't mean for a second that the whole Roman Empire is
programmatically after Christians I
Think what happens by the way say that to you the reason they send somebody like him to Rome. He's a troublemaker
He might be an important troublemaker with important people on either side
The governor does exactly what the smart governor would do off to Rome
It's not because he's committed a crime so egregious that he has to go to Rome
The governor probably doesn't want to get involved in executing him. Somebody's gonna be mad at him
Send him to Rome and years of now the word will come back that he was executed, but you know, I didn't do it
So when somebody is sent to Rome for execution, don't think this means they have done the worst thing we could imagine
Could be the local governor just doesn't want to get involved and there are the huge dispute going on with
Important sponsors on both sides
Easiest thing to do is send it somewhere else
Send it to the feds as well
Don't get involved locally make the feds make the decision. So
It's true that there is no
Giant persecution, but then the real question that point becomes
Quite a revelation say there is yeah, yeah, it's a really good question. I wonder what are your thoughts?
Do you think Jesus?
Hearing a couple different models of this. Do you think Jesus purposefully knew he was going to die?
Or do you think it was more of a cognitive dissonance anachronism to put on the movement where Jesus gets killed?
He didn't expect this to happen. He gets killed and the the
Followers being
Biblicists are reading in the tradition and they're finding what this can't be the end because this gets into the question
I hope we can get into is why the movement survived. Yeah, the movement if cognitive dissonance is the answer
Then the explanation is they're searching the scriptures and they're finding their reasons in prophecy and scripture and tradition
Rather than in the reality, where do you stand on the issue? Do you think Jesus was in a sense?
Maybe this is a bad term but kind of suicidal or do you think this guy didn't expect what happened and it happened?
And it was such a shell shocker that
His his followers are biblical. What do you think happened?
Once again, I'm going back to the text to see I'm not going to psychobabble about Jesus's
Here's what we got John the Baptist was executed
Did John the Baptist know he was doing something dangerous? Of course he did
any massive movement in the Roman Empire
Anything that they would have called sedition, of course, he wasn't
He wasn't militant. He wasn't armed. He wasn't violent
That's not to do with it. He is attracting a lot of attention. He's starting a movement
What Antipas did is exactly what he did take him as far away from his constituency as you can
As far south to MacCarrus to his pack and get rid of him with nobody's around
Exactly, however, it's done. It makes sense
It makes absolute sense and it makes equal sense that people are a member John the Baptist long after so when
Antipas loses the war with a retus the fourth of
Nabataea they say ha God got you for killing John even maybe 10 years later
How many times does that happen today when the politician dies? I go ha ha you sinner
God God tends to be a little slow. It took 10 years, you know to take it out of now anyway
So
Basically now Jesus knows of course
This is dangerous stuff
If he doesn't know I'm I'm afraid he's been very very unwise. Yeah
Now he knows it's dangerous if I could use an analogy Martin Luther King jr. Knew it was dangerous
Knew if I go there, it's dangerous. I go there is dangerous. Do you go there to get killed? Well, let's look at what happens
People seem to think Jesus went up every year to the Passover or regularly
He did not a day labor in Galilee
That would be two days two weeks at least minimal off work
And you'd have to have enough money for your sacrifice when you got there
I don't know if Jesus went up
Ever and yeah, I know what Luke says. I I know every went up every year. That's Luke. Um, I know Jesus went up to Jerusalem once
I'm certain of that and I know he got killed. Yeah, okay. So I'm trying to ask
Why did he go up this time?
Was he looking to get himself killed?
I first of all, I would say he know what happened to John the Baptist
I don't know. He'd have to leave Antipas's territory to get himself killed. I think the only reason
Antipas did not move against
Jesus is he was prorating the death of a popular prophet
I'm not going to go after Jesus until they've cooled down a bit on John the Baptist
But Antipas would have got Jesus eventually if he stayed in Galilee. Now he goes to Jerusalem
Again, I read Mark's text as the earliest of the gospel and I don't do that and I said, oh, whatever he said must be true
But I have to explain if he was executed
What happened before
What got him executed? Did he go up to get himself killed? And as I said, why would he have to go all the way?
Antipas would have helped if you said he did it. Watch what he's doing
Read mark. It's the only thing we got
Every night he goes out to Bethany. He doesn't live in the city now
There might be a full moon pass over and everything, but you don't stay in the city if that's where your enemies are
Get out of the city every night to Bethany
I imagine what I think happened people like Martha Mary Lazarus probably relatives, by the way
Had said to Jesus if you're serious about this God's rule on earth
They might have said this if they were a little bit on grace get out of those dumps up there in Galilee come to a real city
Come down here to Jerusalem. I pass over
People from all over the world
Jews come out and bring your message down here. We're ready for you
We have followers down here. We know about you. Bring it here and we can protect you
Because when you come here
By day, we protect you in the temple. Yeah, you have to watch the priests
They'll be after you because this is dangerous sedition during Passover is is dynamite
They would have known for example, there was a huge
riot in what was it thinking six
see
with all of these people compressed in the
Courts of the temple if anyone even said anything
About say the romans soldiers are the legion not legions of the roman soldiers up there in the antonym
They could start a riot and people will be trampled
So zero toleration
Don't worry. We'll protect you in there. The crowd is with you
They'll greet you
And at night you'll be safe because you'll get out everything I read
in mark
That helps me understand why it takes jesus
Why he isn't killed on when we call Pam sunday
Why by Pam sunday evening if jesus wants to get killed
Isn't pilot who's already in jerusalem with extra forces because of Passover willing to oblige
And the next day in the temple and the next day in the temple
Why does it take so long because I think what happened now?
mark says
He was betrayed by judas
I I've come backwards and forwards on that but I I wouldn't
At the most it's like maybe 51. It's such a cliche
You know, you're you're betrayed by your insider. I mean it happens all the time, but yeah, either way
So people can argue it, you know, it happens
I would say by about Wednesday or Thursday. I'm kai first. Let's say I've been watching every night
He goes out of the temple. He crosses the kedron valley goes around the mount of olives the bethany
Hmm. I could get rate if I'm down there in the middle around who we say that my garden of get 70 years
if I am there with my soldiers before he makes the the
Decision to go around the the mount of olives to the to the west or to the east. I'll grab him there
I'll get him. It'll be nighttime. Nobody know he'll be away from his defensive screen
And I can get this all done and get the Romans get rid of him for anyone knows why they're all busy with Passover
They want noteless too late
So we have to forget that the whole world is watching Jesus is up in the top of a hill
No
I think he goes to Jerusalem to bring his
Message there. He has a good chance of getting away with it
He always almost does
He doesn't but he's crucified. He doesn't do it to get himself crucified
Because he's doing all the wrong things
Thank you
