There is a big difference between a history embroidered with propaganda such as the earth.
We are MythVision.
Welcome to MythVision Podcast, your host Derek Lambert.
Co-host Dr. Luther G. Williams is in the Batcave right now editing his book so that he has all the secrets of life in there.
We'll let you know when that book's out so you guys can get ahold of it.
Make sure you guys get a copy of it.
I don't know if he's going to have it electronic.
I don't know anything yet.
All I know is he's got a lot of power-packed stuff.
For those of you who are on the question of the historicity, mythicism, mythology, esoterics, numerology,
anomatology, understanding names, meaning secrets and stuff that are kind of hidden in the text
that kind of tell you clues about what we're about to do today in terms of talking to a special guest here.
We have somebody that I've been waiting for a long time.
Look, somehow, I don't know how this happens on a flat earth,
but you're on the other side of the globe, I think.
How are you doing it?
I don't understand.
Ken, how are you doing?
I'm doing fine.
I'm doing fine.
It's a pleasure for me to be with you.
It's a little while now since I spoke to a host such as yourself in the States.
We've been a little bit distracted over here.
We have something called Brexit.
You may have heard it a little bit.
But yeah, great to be with you.
Good to be with you too, sir, and you have a YouTube channel.
I want to go ahead and plug this channel because I'm fascinated with it.
I really am.
First of all, your voice is going to sell the hell out of these videos.
Americans buy up the voice.
They love the way you speak.
What is the name of your YouTube channel?
Is it not JesusNeverExisted?
JesusNeverExisted.com.
Absolutely.
It should be.
I wouldn't remember that one without too much effort.
Yep.
JesusNeverExisted.com.
Okay.
So that's the website.
You do have a YouTube channel.
So guys and gals, go to JesusNeverExisted.com.
You see it on your screen.
All right.
Kenneth Humphries is a brilliant...
Oh, sorry.
That's the website.
I'm getting confused already.
No, you're fine.
You're saying the YouTube channel is JesusExisted without the final E.
It exists.
JesusNeverExisted.com.
Okay.
I'm sure you can flash it on just to make it easier.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Guys, gals, here's his site.
So check out this site here.
JesusNeverExisted.com.
Kenneth Humphries is a British scholar and activist for atheism who lives in the south
of England.
He studied for five years at university, graduating with a master's degree in history and social
sciences.
He taught for many years in a torrential...
How do you pronounce that?
Terrial level in the UK?
Turterial?
Or tertiary?
I'm not sure what you're referring to there.
Tertiary.
Is it tertiary level?
Tertiary level.
That's college level.
Obviously, I haven't.
No, I have.
I've got my associate's degree, but that's about it.
Anyway, he's in the UK and he studied there and abroad, including spells in Turkey and
Papai Nguyen, his academics pursuits interlaced with the career in computer industry, culminating
in the establishment of his own business.
Go check out his YouTube videos too.
He's got some computer skills.
A writer with a consuming passion for religion and history.
Humphries has never had any religious affiliation and has been a lifelong atheist.
Rationalist and a libertarian.
I remember as a lad being asked, he says, to leave the cub scouts after three weeks because
I refused to attend the church parade, but by then I could tie my own knots.
My earliest diatribe against Christianity was at the age of 16 in a school debate.
Interesting.
Despite Humphries' lack of any confessional or spiritual interest, religion has a social
and cultural phenomenon, and in particular, the historical claims made for Christianity
have been a lifelong study.
Ken launched his internationally renowned website, JesusNeverExisted.com, in December of 2001.
Since then, the site has received more than 8 million visitors.
In December 2005, a companion book, Jesus Never Existed, the tragic fabrication of a
savior of the world, was published and has been exported to more than 40 countries,
republished in India in 2007 and translated into Korean in 2013.
In December of 2011, Ken began to make available material on the Jesus Never Existed YouTube
channel, which has attracted over 13,000 subscribers and 3 million viewings.
In November of 2014, Jesus Never Existed, an introduction to the ultimate heresy, was
published in the USA.
He is fully occupied as a writer, radio broadcaster and public speaker, and campaigns energetically,
and I admit that 100%, against resurgent superstition and unreason.
Ken has appeared on numerous TV and radio shows, has debated many Christian apologists,
and was a contributing scholar in the documentary, Caesar's Messiah.
He was the guest speaker at the International Mythesis Conference in Athens in May of 2016,
and here he is today.
Go down in the description.
You'll see all the goodies that you can help.
The website, the YouTube channel, PayPal.
You name it guys.
Let's show him some love.
Ken, thanks for joining me on the show brother.
It's a pleasure.
It's a pleasure.
Of course, I have embraced Catholicism since all that was written.
I'm a devout Catholic now.
No, not really.
I was about to say, what?
Oh, man.
Well, very few people, you know, for those of you guys and gals who watched Rocky Balboa,
okay, very few people, you know, come out in the Mythesis camp and start swinging hard,
like the Rocky movie.
Climb up the ranks, meet the Russian face to face, and just blow, okay?
You are hitting this question hard, and I don't hear many Mythesis to come out and say the bold statement,
Jesus never existed.
Now, that's a strong statement to make.
Well, as a scholar, one has to acknowledge that, you know, to state something as an absolute there,
you are actually taking a little bit of liberties.
I mean, after all, Richard Dawkins says, well, you know, just maybe there's a sort of a 0.01% chance as a God.
Of course.
Yeah, so it's strictly speaking.
Yeah, we can't be 100% sure.
But let me give you my justification.
When was the last time you heard a Christian say something along the lines of,
maybe Jesus saves, or maybe you'll go to heaven, or there's a possibility that there's a God, you know?
They don't mince their words.
They are emphatic that their nonsense stories are valid and absolutely true.
And I'm no less certain that they are not.
They are a fabrication to fool people.
So let's say what it is.
I am pleased that there's an Atlantic Ocean between me and the USA.
That gives me some sense of security.
But apart from that, yeah, a lot of fundamentalists where I'm at a lot.
And of course, this this question, I have to ask, how long have you journeyed into this into this idea of the historicity and the mythology of the New Testament?
Like, what made you go, you know, this guy, I don't think he existed too.
You know what, Jesus never existed.
The evidence is not there, you know what I mean?
If you're asking me my background on that, yeah, what's always interesting to me from when I was a child is history, particularly the ancient world, the Romans, the Greeks, the Egyptians, all that stuff.
And, you know, you hear as a child, you know, in a public school, you hear about Jesus and you sort of think, hmm, where does that fit in with, you know, Julius Caesar and, you know, the invasion of Britain?
You know, it sort of exists in a separate area.
So I always had doubts, but it never interests to be enough to pursue it because I studied real history and got to familiar with real history.
Now, when you study real history for years and years, along the way, you become aware there's a huge missing gap.
There's a gap here of what should be there if the story were true.
If any of it were true, but where is it?
It's missing.
You often used to say to myself, I wish I could find the time to tell Christians that so-and-so and so-and-so is just isn't true.
You know, that bit of evidence there just doesn't fit with what they are claiming, but they just don't know it because Christians aren't particularly interested in the history, are they?
They aren't particularly. They like the current mess, don't they?
You're saved. Embrace Jesus, you are saved. You're one of the good guys.
So I used to just pick up this sort of awareness of the fraud that's going on and went on for centuries, and then it was around about the year 2000.
I decided I actually would start to write this stuff, and that's when I started my website.
And then, of course, I had people copying the whole website, you know, copying the printing of pages and pages, and then after a guy in Egypt sent to me,
he said he'd printed out the entire website, and I said, you know, could it be available as a book?
So then I put together the book, you know, and the book came along.
And I was happy with that. I thought, I've done my bit for humanity. I've written the book. It's all there if they want to read it.
But then people would say, oh, it's a thick book. It's full of long, difficult words. Can you sort of give us a little video?
You know, five or ten minutes, you know, explaining it in simple words.
So, you know, after a couple of years, yes, I go. So I've done the various videos and, you know, you can look up what bit of the nonsense that takes your fancy.
And, yeah, and most people are far too busy with real life to worry too much about this story.
And so, yeah, then we put it. And now, where are we at now? Well, I guess it's all out there.
I suppose we have to make it available for mobile phones, right? It's got to be this size, isn't it?
You know, you've got to shrink it all down so it's easy enough. You know, how much are you going to do the spoon feeding so they don't have to do any work?
But, you know, anyway, through it all, it's a lot of fun. I've had a good giggle about it all.
I appreciate you doing that because people like me, I mean, I have to beat myself up.
I have a very difficult time to sit through a long book.
But then again, I've done a lot of construction in my life and I can put headphones in my ears and listen for hours while working.
Whereas when I get home, I'm so tired and to read my eyes are wanting to shut.
And I do appreciate that because there are some people who obviously probably can't keep up with those words as well.
But I could definitely listen in here. So I'm one of them guys. But pertaining to this topic.
Yeah, I have accepted that now. I realize a love of books is really a dying thing.
We are not in that age anymore. It's all electronic and instant communication.
And why not? You know, I can appreciate, you know, a three minute advert on the television is a wonderful communication.
It says so much. It tells you a little story in a very compact form, often with a jingle that sticks in your mind.
Very effective. So let's go down that route.
Let's do it. And we're doing it here now.
So Ken, what was it that made you go, you know what, this guy, these are some things that made me question.
Whatever evidence you have, because I could see the question of whether there was a Jesus becoming more and more wanting.
Okay, it really was needing help. The historicists have been really biased for a long time and the layers of mythology.
I mean, this isn't like, oh, there's layered mythology on a Caesar or this isn't, no, this is not a mythologized man like Caesar.
We have so much evidence of the human, the actual person that this guy was not God through and through running the whole damn shebang.
This guy, Jesus seems to be layered with allegories and things that just don't seem unreal, they're unrealistic.
So you want to go in a few evidences of that and I want to get into Paul.
So stay tuned if you're watching this, we're going to talk about some Paul stuff too, because he's been hunting him for a long time.
Yeah, I mean, let me just say up front for most of my life, I believe there was a Jesus, you know, I didn't study Jesus per se.
I mean, what's there to study outside the new, you know, the Gospels? What is there to study?
I mean, there's no real history available and it didn't interest me, you know.
Okay, but I did think probably some rebel, some rebel, some sort of a malcontent who just got himself strung up by the Romans one day.
Big deal, you know. It's only when you actually take the step of saying, well, let's put, you know, let's really assemble what we do know about him.
Then you discover the primary documents of Christianity are extremely suspect.
You know, we don't know who the authors are. We don't know where they were written, when they were written, and they overlap in outrageous ways as well as contradict each other in outrageous ways.
And these are the primary documents. So you can't sort of visit the home of Jesus or the school he went to or, you know, there's nothing there.
There's just nothing there. You have this crazy, incomplete story and a stupid nativity towel that's tacked on in two of the Gospels.
But basically they begin with a man. You've got somebody at the door there, by the way, behind you.
That had to be an aberration or a ghost that might have been Jesus. I don't know, man.
I'm sure it was with us.
Helen?
Yeah.
So, you know, this should surely, with any rational being, raise questions. If this person existed in any real fashion, why is there nothing, nothing to substantiate him?
Because, clearly, if he existed, as this sort of malcontent who was around for a few years and then got crucified, why didn't anyone notice at the time?
You know, if he was a very ordinary guy, then, well, there wouldn't be a religion. So if this fantastic guy, this charismatic man, you know, son of God existed, why did he not impress anybody for at least 30, if not 50 years,
before they wrote down any sort of story about it, then can you, I think, my God, could the whole thing be an invention?
Now, I'm certainly not the first person to say, hang on, this is all made up. But I started then to look at some books that were around at that time.
I mean, you'll remember Dorothea Murdoch's, you know, Acharya's book on the, what's it called? The Christ.
That's right. You know, and I thought, okay, she was saying some things that I couldn't accept. She got a little bit into new age stuff that I thought, no, she's getting a bit flaky there.
But essentially the story of questioning that how it came about. Yeah, I thought she's under something there, and I'll follow up on this.
And so, you know, we became good friends because we were in parallel lines.
I love her by the way.
She wrote about stuff that, yeah, and it was very sad that, you know, but so we would occasionally talk to each other and email and so on.
And we backed each other up in a world which was very hostile.
I mean, you know, I mean, people, Christians used to write to me and say, you're making yourself look stupid.
Everybody knows, everybody knows Jesus existed. You can't say that.
All you can say is he wasn't the son of God. You can start there if you really must.
And I'm thinking, on your bike, you know, you're not telling me where to start the debate.
So yes, I started to look for the evidence and then you just take a simple proposition.
You take any one of the stories told about Jesus, these little snippet stories of, you know, walking up a mountain or, you know, taking a trip by the seaside, you know, and it doesn't actually hang together.
You know, the towns are not known. You know, the plausibility of the propositions doesn't work.
You need to take this cleansing of the temple as if that was possible.
As if that was possible. Huge, huge temple concourse, thousands of people gathered for the Passover and then one man with a whip and he gets them all out.
And nobody arrests him. Nobody knocks him down. The whole thing is, that's ludicrous. That's ludicrous, you know.
And any story that you look at, you know, just like, let's start at the beginning. Where does Mark start?
Jesus, I've been chased into the desert and coming back again, you know.
He's walking around the steer gallery and he sees, you know, Mark and Luke or somebody and he says to him, follow me.
And they just abandon everything and follow him. And you think, yeah, people do that all the time, don't they?
You know, if someone comes by, you give up all your families, your business, you just follow off some hippie.
And why? He hadn't performed any miracles at that stage. It's just sort of sheer personality. Follow me and off they go.
And you think, this isn't real. This is just a story. It's a story with a theological purpose to talk about, you know, what someone coming from heaven might have said if it were possible.
It goes on. It goes on.
I love that. No, no, no. We're going to pause for a second on that. And I want to just kind of, like, something that I, you know, when you've been studying it for a while, and I have been studying this for a while,
not nearly as long as you guys, but something new to me. And I guess those of my guests and those who are watching this who might not be obviously as adept to it as you or Dr. Carrier or Dr. Price,
some of the guys who are well immersed in understanding the skepticism side of things, which most just, like you said, presuppose historians have been regurgitating the historical Jesus for 2000 years.
So now, or, you know, roughly 2000. And now we've been handed down this, hey, look at what everybody thinks about Jesus. So you should be thinking the same thing. You're crazy if you don't think so.
Yeah, by the way, the earth is flat. So you're thinking the earth is a globe. You're crazy. So anyways, this is something that red flag to me. You said how these Gospels overlap. They contradict. They do this. And that's 100% a fact as I've been researching this.
So what gets me is not just that the Gospels themselves are doing this. We know for a fact that church fathers, I'm going to use the word molested the text. OK, so you have to ask yourself if these church fathers are molesting this text to make it say
things and to add doctrines and remove and possibly even not give us books like first Corinthians. There's no telling where these some of these books are real first Corinthians because what we have is really second and third and all these things possibly.
That's that. That's just a theory. But when you say that and you go, OK, when this thing has so many thumbprints on it, and it's obviously been damaged purposefully, OK, how can you really look at this thing and say, oh, you know what, with certainty like Dr. Bart Ehrman has that Jesus exists.
And here's what we can know about him. How do you know for certainty because he makes an absolute I've seen him. I've heard him brilliant man. He is he's a scholar.
But man, he comes out swinging saying, we know for a fact we have absolute certainty that Jesus Christ existed. And I think there should be a big question mark there and say there's a probability that he exists.
He doesn't do that. He sides with the Christians when it comes to making that absolute statement.
Yeah, Bart Ehrman is is a special case. I mean, we all know, I think that he trained very extensively for the priesthood. You know, he went to Moody Bible College.
He went to Princeton or wherever it was.
And it's because of his familiarity with the text that he lost his belief system. So he says, you know, but I believe somebody who grew out of that social background with a clientele very much in the Bible area.
You know, that he's never going to he's never going to say, yeah, well, okay, I realize he didn't exist, you know, but all his work directs towards that.
He talks about fraud. He talks about all the alternative gospels that are tossed out, you know, and yet at the end of the day, he said, oh, yeah, but it still existed, folks.
He's still at Princeton, you know, you can you can stay with, you know, with your church.
But don't be threatened, you know, and it's academic dishonesty, to be honest, it's academic dishonesty.
But, you know, unfortunately, people like that, they have primary position in terms of propaganda, you know, the access to the listening public as it were.
So it is more successful or easier, perhaps, to sell a message like that than the less, less, the less happy message that actually he didn't exist.
God doesn't exist. You're actually all going to die, you know, and that's life, you know, live it as it is, but that's life.
Jesus loves you. He'll always love you. You'll be with your loved ones in heaven, you know, just you just subscribe, you just keep keep your membership and, you know, we'll go with that, you know.
And so he's a successful salesman. He sells the message. He goes on selling the message.
Okay, I want to go back a little bit here. When do you date the Gospels? Are you with mainstream, the scholars who are skeptics, though, and saying, hey, these are probably written anywhere from 70 to 110?
Or do you think like Dr. Price, and you say, you know, these things could be early second century, you know, documents. Where are you at on the spectrum?
Well, I mean, I can live with either of those propositions and I don't even feel it's absolutely necessary to nail it down. We don't have any copies of first century documents. None at all.
We don't have second century copies. You know, they don't exist. You have to, it's fairly late in the day, perhaps the beginning of the third century, we actually have some of these copies.
Yes, there's a couple of fragments earlier, but, you know, they're all questionable how they are dated. So I think it's plausible. I mean, if you try and think of what was really the genesis of Christianity, and I'd say,
where the genesis of Christianity was the destruction of temple Judaism, which created a need, an existential need on the part of the Jewish religion to evolve into this crisis situation.
And out of that came rabbidic Judaism on the one hand and Christianity on the other. They were the products of that destruction of the old temple religion.
And that gives you your starting point. Now, whether Mark wrote in this, you know, 70, 75, 80, well, I don't care, he wrote sometime during that time.
And it's quite clear it wasn't the Word of God, because Matthew came along and took Mark's script and he changed it wholesale. He wasn't concerned of what God had said to Mark.
He's putting down what he thinks he, you know, and that's what they did. And so over this period of time, these gospels evolved. And it's quite clear that Matthew, I'd say, Matthew came along about 20 years after Mark,
and he was hoping to replace him. He was hoping Mark would fall by the wayside, but I think it was too well spread out and known that he had to go side by side.
Luke came along. He did a similar trick, trying to, you know, give it some historical veracity. He's the one who borrowed our whole self from Josephus.
And it all went, giving it all these little, you know, authentic little touches, you know, a timeline, you know, in the time of Tiberius and then, you know, all the rest of it.
And I've wondered at first, I thought, why did a church give itself such a pain over having four gospels rather than one? And then you realise, actually, four different lies give you lots of scope for a reply into the competition.
Because if one doesn't have the answer, the other one does. And you just say, oh, they all had a different perspective on things. So they kept them all in the frame, you know, and that's what we live with.
But of course, interestingly enough, if you look at how they put the books into the New Testament, they didn't put them in the order they were written, because that way Mark would come first.
Oh no, Mark comes after Matthew, so you wouldn't notice. So you wouldn't notice. You know, the whole thing is deceit, multi-levels deep, you know, the whole thing.
Yeah, totally get it. And I mean, I'm deconstructing still, because when you had that same thinking for so long, you know, I was a fundamentalist, and I went and gradually grew and developed my knowledge and started learning and seeing these things.
And the first thing I did when I started to deconstruct was try to rationalise and say, oh, well, listen, it's not literal. So I had to go to allegory to try and make it somehow protect the text, because at least if it's allegory, there's some vague esoteric explanation.
And don't get me wrong, there's plenty of esoteric stuff there, like death, burial, resurrection, and three days probably has some esoteric astrology hidden in it, but what I'm saying is I did it with everything because I was trying to protect it.
And I tried to come up with, well, I had that question, you know, well, is my religion the only true one? Why are all these deity claims, creation claims, blood claims, miracle claims of all these other religions? So then I started like expand.
And it was a good process for me because I couldn't go from zero to 100. I had to go, okay, well, maybe there's a universal God, maybe there's a universal spirit overlapping all religions.
And then I finally started going, okay, why is Paul saying he's not a liar? And I started going, what's going on here? You know what I mean?
So I wanted to delve into this and ask you the best way you can articulate because I know I'm putting you on the spot and there's so much you've written and done on this.
What does Paul fit into this, this crazy story? Because scholars go, well, Paul came first, he probably wrote in the 50s and he was actively involved in a ministry at that time.
And to me, I don't know if you agree with me on this, it's just my opinion. I told this to my co-host, I said, Luther, what are the odds that a guy named Paul could even be preaching an anti-tour or even sometimes seemingly anti-tour message
of non-circumcision to Israelites in any way, shape or form? Saying, don't worry about dietary laws, don't worry about Sabbath observance. Could he even get away with that before a temple's destruction?
To me, it seems like a red flag. But where does Paul fit in your scheme of research? Because I could be wrong. I'm just throwing it out there.
You make a good point there, you make a good point there. Paul, to me, is a curious character because we start off with a basic story. Jesus decides to recruit 12 disciples who are his followers and he gives them the power of over-demons and to heal the sick.
And fine, and then he exits the scene. But then they almost are gone. Then we shift over to a character who's not been known before, this guy called Paul.
He's introduced as what is mind in the coats when they're doing a stoning of Stephen. There he is, a young man minding the coats while they're having a good stoning. Well done.
And you think, okay, it's funny that he didn't meet Jesus. After all, he tells us that he was a very keen scholar of Judaism. He was very keen, better than all the other scholars he was with.
And yet this character, who seemingly at the same stage is causing turmoil all over Galilee and Judah, he doesn't meet him strangely enough. But what he does happen, he becomes the chief persecutor.
Well, on the other hand, you think this young man suddenly is catapulted, he's the chief persecutor. And you think, that's a bit strange, isn't it? And then you start putting other bits in. But this guy claims he was a Roman citizen.
So this chief persecutor of impressing orthodoxy and correctness is himself running with the enemy. He's a collaborator with the Romans. And then you think, okay, he persecutes the Jews, the Christians until death, really?
The funny thing is, he has to go to Damascus to find them. Because the ones in Jerusalem, the disciples, he leaves alone. Those ones, he leaves alone. He goes off to Damascus to find, and of course we know, he gets this conversion experience.
He doesn't even get there. He gets this conversion experience. And suddenly, he's enlightened. And he becomes the person who imparts the real story. The twelve disciples sort of fall by the wayside.
And this, to me, it's like, this is a major rewrite. You know, probably the first version of the story. It was the twelve disciples, you know, kicking around. But no, that didn't work. And what do we have in Paul? We don't have a simple fisherman or peasant.
You know, we had this towering character who has the ability to talk to vast crowds. He has the ability to become the founder of churches, and not just one, all over the eastern Mediterranean.
He is the founder of churches, and it's almost like he can breeze into somewhere like Ephesus, you know, founder church, off he goes, and something like that. What does he do? He writes them a letter saying, how are you getting on?
You know, you think, this is like a sort of super-apostle. This isn't a real person at all. I mean, can you imagine? I mean, you've probably been to Ephesus. I've certainly been to Ephesus. You go there, and it was obviously a vast Roman city.
Do you imagine it was overturned in a sort of dramatic riot situation because this Jew arrived one day and started spouting off about a new God? Do you think they would have said, on your bike sunshine, you know, we're far too busy trading and doing our things here?
You know, it's all like, but the whole thing becomes, it's Paul. Paul turned Ephesus up, turned it all, and then he goes off. He goes to Greece and Macedonia, and you think, my God, he does everything, doesn't he?
And of course, then it finishes up. Well, he goes to prison in Caesarea, then he gets shipped off to Rome, and then he has a miraculous appearance in Rome, and yet, at the end of the story, it peters out. We don't really know where it happens to him at all.
We have this legend that he was in Rome and set up the church in Rome and buried there and so on. I mean, to me, the story is nonsense. It's nonsense that has been sanctified and retold and embellished.
And if you go round the Eastern Mediterranean, as I've done, you visit the places that Paul has been, you, of course, find the evidence of Paul. All the evidence that was invented by the church in the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 10th centuries, then put it all together.
And so everywhere you can go, you can find bits of Paul all over the Mediterranean. You know, you can find his elbow in Morta. You can find his elbow in parts of Greece.
You know, wherever the story is needed to be told for the faithful, they invent some of the evidence that might impress them. And people love it. People love it, you know?
Yes.
Yeah, sure. You're asking about Paul.
No, I love this. You're coming in with a totally fresh look and you're just saying things we've all thought. Because the way I look at it, honestly, Ken, is if there was a Paul, and I think a lot of people who are trying to say, you know, we like to wrestle these ideas.
It's a very fun, interesting topic to me. I really enjoy going, well, did he exist? Did he not? I like doing all that, whether he did or didn't. I try to really just try to figure out what I can.
And you're right. Such a figure who goes from Saul to Paul in the act story, you know, to this cataclysmic character kind of makes you wonder, was he someone else than just the guy named Paul? Or could there have been real people that he is representative of that made this thing happen?
I don't know. But there's people who think, you know, like Operation Messiah, there was a book written saying he was actually working and collaborating with the Romans in this operation, I suspect, to do this. That's one theory to try and understand the historical Paul.
You see where I'm going with this? So it's like, they're trying to explain why someone could do such a thing. And that's because he had the backing of the Romans.
The story gives us kind of indications of that. And then you have someone, and there's a couple scholars out there that think, you know, different theories of Paul.
Dr. Price, even in his book, The Colossal Apostle, which I have not been able to read the whole thing. It's very thick and very hard to really get through.
But it's very powerful stuff he's saying. And in the intro, I will never forget, he says, at first, you're going to say, I'm swatting at gnats. But then I'm going to be swallowing whole camels. So get ready, he was saying, because it's a big patchwork.
Like you said, it's been so played with, we don't know really what was the original, what was really going on.
I mean, yes, we can see images of Paul, we can see statues of Paul. God knows how many churches are named after him. Yes, there seems to be substance, doesn't it? There seems to be substance.
And I certainly, when I started to question Paul, I started to think, oh, it's embarrassing to start saying there's no Paul. I mean, Christ, I've already said there's no Jesus.
Well, let's at least have Paul. But yes, and I think maybe a character or a number of characters do flesh out the reality. But what we have in the finished product is something, as you say, the super colossal Paul.
No, this guy founds churches, he writes almost the entirety of Christian theology. I mean, you know, he doesn't have to go and consult the 12, you know, actually new Jesus.
It's got it all from the astral plane, you know, he's got it all from scripture or divine inspiration.
You know, and then, of course, he finishes up as a martyr. He has to finish up a martyr. All the early Christians finish up as martyrs, except that we have no evidence of that.
But, you know, this is not with trouble by that. But I think, yes, you can find a one basis for Paul if you read Josephus for sure.
He talks about someone called Saul, who was very bad towards some poor people, you know, he treated them bad, and the guy fled Jerusalem to go and see Nero over in Greece, you know.
And you think, ah, this is interesting. There's a Paul. And then you see another aspect. You hear of the shipwreck of Josephus.
He's on the same voyage, you know, to Puscioli in Italy, and he gets shipwrecked but gets rescued. And, of course, that's what Paul does.
And there's so many parallels that you start to think, no, somebody has just done a job here, putting together an idealized evangelical apostle.
They've done an ideal because he's flawless, isn't he? He never loses his temper. You know, he's kind to children and animals.
You know, he's a perfect person, isn't he? He even does some of the miracles. You know, he was stoned by the Jews and then recovered enough to go, not just for a rest.
He goes off to another mission the next day. You know, it's so fantastic that, you know, unless you're blinded by faith, you realize this is just a story.
It's just a story, an inspiring story. Nothing wrong with that.
I like how you're piecing a few things together because I've had some guests who come on and also I myself have tried and said, OK, who's Paul?
Paul's Josephus because here, look, it shows that this is the Josephus account.
And then you go, well, hold on. Paul's Simon Magus because Simon Magus, look at what Dr. Price is showing.
And then, hold on. Saul's Jesus Christ. Now you're looking at Jesus because look, Paul does what Jesus did.
And though, really, Jesus is Paul and you have this, you're absolutely right.
There's so many things. I think it's fair to remain agnostic on really what the truth is because we can't really know and say, you know what?
One thing we can know is a lot of this is fiction. That's for certain.
That's what we can know. That's what we can know. Yeah.
And I would say the fact that simply archaeology provides no evidence for someone called Paul.
You know, there's nothing interesting enough in his supposed life.
He meets kings, doesn't he? He meets the governor and the king in Galilee.
He meets the governor of Cyprus when he goes there. You know, he meets a lot of important people, but none of them, none of them record any of this.
No historian records any of this. It's only later Christians record this guy.
You know, you think, you know, you honestly can't accept it as anything other than a story, you know.
I totally agree. I think that there's a lot there.
Go ahead.
I'm trying to visit all the places on the Pauline itinerary. You know, I've been to a lot of them.
Unfortunately, at the moment, Syria is a little bit of a challenge. You know, I can't quite get to Syria.
At least it's a bit too dangerous to get there at the moment, but I'd like to get there sometime.
But you see, you know, and of course, you remember how in Damascus there's a street called Strait, isn't there?
There's a street called Strait. And Christians will sometimes tell you, it says in the Bible, there's a street called Strait in Damascus.
And if you go to Damascus, there is a street called Strait.
But they won't tell you it wasn't named a street called Strait in the Roman era at all.
You know, it's just a much later identification, but it just sort of fits with them.
It sort of helps those little nuggets that make you think, oh, yeah, there's a street there.
And that's of course what they do.
Yeah, that happens a lot. I mean, it's, you know, and I mean, I'm going to go ahead and bring the topic up because I remember Dr. Price debating Bart Ehrman.
And Bart Ehrman was like kind of mocking and laughing at the idea that Nazareth was in a place, you know.
Of course it was a place. He's like, and I hate that myth says to even make that argument that Nazareth was no place at the time of the first century.
It was a place and they have found it in this and that.
Well, is it true that a lot of these New Testament stories have influenced the geography rather than the geography is actually just being inserted into the New Testament?
You see what I'm saying? Like you're talking about with the street, isn't it?
Doesn't it seem that the church is now naming places based off their text?
Absolutely, absolutely. And if they did that in the sixth century, you're an under-wiser, are you?
And they're not going to tell you that's what happened in the sixth century, but that's what did happen in the sixth century.
You know, Romans didn't call streets straight. You know, there's the decumanious, you know.
And, you know, they didn't use terms like that. And it isn't straight anyway. You look at it and it's got a doubly in it.
But anyway, you know, there's so much stuff where there's layers added on.
And of course you've got this whole army of both academics and scholars like Bart Ehrman who muddy the water and use their reputation to give reassurance all the time.
You know, someone like Bert Ehrman saying, of course there was Nazareth. Well, thousands of people take that as red.
It's Bart Ehrman saying they take it as red. You know, there may have been a little hamlet there.
I think the Gospel says the city of Nazareth, you know, the city of, no, Polish Nazary.
It doesn't talk about a little tiny hamlet. You know, so what happened to the city then? What happened to the city?
You know, well, there's none of that story. I don't know which is the best bit to even start from.
But, you know, do we believe, does Bart Ehrman ever believe in the Nativity? Is that anything else for him?
Yeah, no, that's interesting you bring that up. Is there any other, because I want to remind you of some of these examples.
Do you have any other examples that you could give of, even if it's not archaeological or geographically related,
some interesting things that just red flag and you're like that definitely is later or that is, that's a myth, that's fiction.
Any details, because I know you have a tons, plugging your channel.
Let's take one of my favourites that comes to mind. Let's take Peter. Let's take Peter, you know, a twiddle-dumb to a twiddle-D, you know.
If we have Paul, then we have Peter. And of course the Vatican, as we all know, is built on the, well, the grave of Peter.
Is that where it is? Is it really? Is it really? They have explored. I mean, it's a lovely story if we've got time to tell it, you know.
During the Second World War, the Vatican archaeologists dig under the high altar of St Peter's because they thought,
well, maybe we'll find the bones of Peter, you know. Now, as it happened, St Peter's is built over a pagan graveyard, right?
So the chances of digging down and finding bones are really quite high, you know. You do dig down and you do find bones.
It's a little bit questionable whether you actually find the Christian saints bones by doing that, you know.
But there you go. Now, they approached this discovery, they approached looking for what they hoped to find, right?
By digging through this pagan graveyard and eventually came close to the altar and then they sort of got underneath the altar and were coming up.
And what they found actually was basically a hole, right? A empty hole which would have been where the corpse of Peter might have been if he had existed and if he had been buried there, right?
Well, they found an empty place and the archaeologists who did that recorded that. There was nothing to be found.
So the Pope at the time made a sort of message that they think they've found the grave of Peter, but, you know, we'll let it go at that and the devout, of course, believed.
So, you know, and then some years later a female archaeologist and a friend of the new Pope, she decided it wasn't good enough.
We could get a better version of the truth than the one that the archaeologists had done the digging at.
So she went back to the boxes of stuff that had been dug out and she was very lucky that some particular workman remembered some box, right?
And he produced this box with some bones and, lo and behold, they identified the bones as from a strong, large man of a sort of Mediterranean extraction, yeah?
And then, you know, icing on the cake, because bones weren't in the grave at that time.
The bones were in a wall above the grave, right? Above the grave.
And scratched on the wall in minuscule letters, hardly discernable, except to this female, was the name Peter.
Oh, well, that's it then. She'd found proof. The scratching, which in, was it Latin? Was it Greek?
The scratching she identified. And then we're about the size of postage stamp and she identified that as obviously the reverence of early Christians to mark this grave as, you know,
I mean, if it was Peter, wouldn't they have carved it in big letters, but no, scratched on the side this little bit.
And then they announced that they'd found the grave of Peter and Hunky Dory.
And, you know, and you think, well, it's like those who want to believe will believe, won't they?
Absolutely.
The fact that there was just this dreadful fraud being perpetrated, it's just, I mean, I've even got a few Catholic friends.
I had the same issue with them. They sort of bit of their brain gets switched off, you know, because it's faith, isn't it?
It's faith.
Yeah, you can't do anything about that. I mean, it's just something that they themselves somehow it has to switch over.
You know, I wanted to bring up something because it was brought up one of my friends that I do interview on here as well.
He mentioned the pilot stone. Do you have any thoughts on the pilot stone and the James Arch, Arch, Archuary or whatever the.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, the pilot stone. Yeah, great. Yeah. And there really is a pilot stone. There really is a pilot stone.
In a theater in Caesarea, in secondary use was a stone had come from an altar or a sort of more of a sort of ceremonial altar, perhaps the pilot dedicated to Tiberius, I believe it was, you know,
So here's an evidence of pilot who was not a procuator. He was a prefect and honoring his emperor Tiberius and then a later emperor knocked it down and it got put into this theater.
And so the pilot stone exists. Now Christians would try and tell you, well, that's the that confirms the whole nine yards of Jesus Christ.
It has nothing to say about Jesus Christ. It just shows that Romans built lots of monuments to lots of people and occasionally recycled them.
You know, what's what's so special about that? The James Archery. Well, that's a lovely story, isn't it?
It relates to a notorious antiquities dealer and fraudster. Gollum, I believe his name was, who he claimed he had this archery.
He kept it in his house for about 25 years since he was a boy, I'm 16 or whatever it was. But then then he sort of invited a French scholar to come and have a look at it because he thought he had an interest in inscription on it.
And now, behold, the French scholar identified it. James, the son of Joseph, the brother of Jesus on it. Oh, wow. Evidence here of Jesus.
Oh, good. I mean, cutting along a story short, even the Israeli antiquities authority didn't buy this because this same guy, antiquities dealer, come fraudster, also had the only evidence of the Solomon's temple.
You know, he had the one little vase. Now, nowhere have anyone ever found evidence of Solomon's temple. Just maybe it's a myth, you know, but we'll come on another day.
But, you know, he found this sort of part of a priestly staff that he'd had. And that was something else he had, you know, that he produced.
But the thing was, what he was doing, as someone can do now, you can buy a book of inscriptions, they're published, great fat volumes, all the inscriptions are found.
He found a blank oshery and he sort of superimposed the letters. He aged it over years to make the right pattern to cover it.
You know, he even used grains of atomic traces of gold, so it looked like gold had melted onto it. You know, everything you might do to authenticate it.
So the experts doing their tests, fine, all those traces of gold here, and you know, it looks like this was when the temple burnt down.
The whole thing is just, well, it's a minefield, isn't it? A minefield, because if you've got something that's potentially worth, you know, 5 million, 10 million, you know, you're going to spend a few bob and a few months getting it ready, aren't you?
And that's exactly what the college is, you know, it's exactly what. And of course, the believers fall for it, the experts are easily fooled, you know.
Yeah, Professor Eisenman, I think, when that first was revealed, Professor Eisenman actually went on record saying it's a fraud right off the bat, and they were asking him why, and I think he had issues with what was being said on the side.
He took issue with what was being said and he was explaining it, and they were like, you're telling us on record that quick after seeing it?
And you know, he's been immersed in this stuff for a while and stuff, and he's like, yeah, it's a fraud. Like, it's definitely not authentic, and he went on record doing that too, which is interesting, you can see that on YouTube as well.
What else is there that's just whack-a-doodle? Shroud of turn.
Yeah, I love this.
It's all whack-a-doodle.
No, but the Shroud of Turn, that's something that's so much later, that's almost like another conspiracy type thing that doesn't even really like no real historians using that.
So let's talk about serious supposed evidence. All right, so we talked about the pilot stone, right? We would suggest there was a real Pontius pilot.
Acidus comes on in the second century saying Crestus was crucified. Textually, how do you deal with some of those things when do you think that he's writing a report from people who are espousing this idea and telling him, hey, look, this is the story and he's writing it?
Or do you think church fathers may have interpolated these things into these historians' texts? What do you think is happening here with those kind of things? You know what I mean?
Well, yeah, okay, Acidus is possibly a good starting point if you want to push back against all the mythos' case, because he is a respected historian and he repeats elements of the Christians like, you know.
Right.
And so you think, okay, well, the first thing to say about Acidus, of course, he isn't an eyewitness. He wasn't even born during the life of Jesus. You know, he wasn't, you know, this is something he's written in the early second century in actual fact.
So it's a long time after. So where would he have got his information from?
Now, sometimes certain stupid Christians suggest that he's gone through the official archives as if he finds, oh yeah, Jesus Christ was crucified today, you know, he's sort of sent him from their outpost in Judea.
But he didn't. He's just repeating a story that's told of his own time and that Christians were obviously saying, that's how they got their stories and he's not spending too much time on it.
And it's just a little tip that he's put in there about the Christians. What I find interesting about Acidus is his references to Nero in that context, because what I feel very strongly that one of the biggest injustices done to ancient history is this bad
mouthing of Nero as some sort of antichrist or even a rotten guy. You know, Nero had his weaknesses and his faults, of course, but so did all the Romans, all the Roman emperors, you know, and he was not a bad guy.
He didn't invade anybody, right? He didn't invade anybody. What did he want to do? He wanted to be an entertainer. He wanted to sing and perform in front of the public.
That's what annoyed the Roman aristocracy. You know, he wasn't a strongman conqueror. He was a soft, fun-loving guy. He used to have terrific parties. What's so bad about that?
You know, and Roman often caught fire. There was nothing special particularly about the fire that affected Nero's reign and he corrected the damage fairly quickly. But again, who were pissed off by it?
Primarily the aristocracy, because it was some of their prime areas that he then had to knock down and he decided, all right, I'll build myself a nice palace. I'll replay in the city centre and build a nice palace, right?
And so historians who were representing the senatorial class had every reason in the world to bad mouth Nero. So they did. They did. He wasn't particularly bad guy, but they did that.
OK, yes, he murdered his mother. Let's just say that up front. He murdered his mother. But she was a career politician who was trying to be boss herself. So it was one of those inevitable things.
But OK, now the Christians, when they latched on to Nero, he played into their story wonderfully because they came out with this idea that he'd burnt Christians and blamed them for the fire.
Now, actually, when you think about that whole story sensibly, you realise it couldn't have happened. The fire occurred. It went out. They put it out. You know, after a few days it was out. They started rebuilding.
When did this supposed massacre of the Christians occur? You know, immediately? You know, or a few months later? You know, you can't actually say. And there's no evidence of any of that stuff. Where did they burn them, hang them for some sort of exhibition centre?
No evidence of that at all. So I feel very much that Nero needs to be rehabilitated because this idea, you know, not only do you get this so-called massacre of the Christians and we have no evidence that there were Christians in Rome at that time at all, this is the first evidence of Christians.
If you say, where's the evidence that Christians were ever in Rome before the end of the first century? I always say, oh, Nero's fire. That's when they were, you know. But you, you know, if that's not true, then they're going the way Christians are.
And then they sort of rope in the idea Peter and Paul were part of it. And you think, what? How do you get that to match? How do you get them in there to, you know, but of course by burning them in Rome, Peter and Paul were made honorary Romans.
And from that point on, the religion that had, you know, overflowed out of Judea became a religion from Rome. And Rome could start to fashion it because after all, Peter and Paul were now Romans.
And so it was Roman Catholicism emerge, you know, and what happened, you know, Jerusalem and so on starts to disappear off that, you know, the center of gravity has moved into Italy.
It's funny you say that because James Valiant and Warren Fye, they wrote the book Creating Christ and they kind of actually delve into some of these details in their book showing that what we might be seeing here, if there were persecuted Christians who had a possible Christ of their follower,
possibly suppose there was supposed what if Tacitus is recording that there really were these Christians, they say these are not the Christians that you think these are probably militant Jews who were Messianic in nature, and they had nothing to do with the
Gospels or Pauline theology at all. And they hijacked this story saying, hey, we're going to build this fiction off of possible historical things. And this is why historians are scratching their heads today going, duh, it's you didn't know this is history.
And so there's definite fabrication that I think is going on here, if that is a plausible explanation, that look, there were Messianic Jewish people, and then no wonder Paul takes this thing and goes, hey, it doesn't matter if you're Torah at all.
And what do you think the pagans can do with that? They can do a lot with that. So now you've got what you're showing, it goes from Jerusalem to, I mean, here we are with the Roman Catholic Church down the road, it evolved.
So would you agree that maybe if there is real history there with Tacitus, it's not talking about the same group? And it's not really even because the complicated part is where he says Crestus, right? And they're like, oh, that means that's Jesus.
But the thing is, because even if there was a guy who got crucified by Pontius Pilate, the Gospel hands down is a fictional account. So we're not denying what we talked about with Paul, right? Paul is a fictional account of a person.
Paul, at some times, is Josephus. So there's bones of history, possibly, but they're so fictionalized and mythologized, if there was a guy, his name wasn't called Jesus, Tacitus would have said, hey, there's Jesus. Jesus got crucified.
He says Crestus, which is obviously the Messianic leader, possibly, if that's even a way to understand it. So we're so skeptical.
We know it's a common name for a start, Crestus. It was a slave name as much as anything else. So we know that. All these stories have been massaged so much. I mean, it does take something like an army of scholars and the internet to start unraveling it all.
It's only because it's so ridiculous that we can never achieve it, you know, because the stories are so blatant that it's only the sheer volume of them trying to deal with them all. But yeah, that's right. That's right.
I love this. I really do love this, man. How can I get you to come back on sooner than later? Because you're a fascinating guest.
Well, yeah, you just got to get hold of me somehow. I mean, I'm getting back more into Jesus right now. It's getting a bit more of my attention. You know, as you know, I've been a bit distracted of late.
But yeah, why not? When I'm on form, when I'm on form, I can speak about Jesus all night, you know.
Oh, I love it. You might not want to listen, but I can spout about Jesus endlessly.
Dude, you know I'm eating this up. So for sure, I love it. And I'm glad that we finally connected. How do people help with your process in bringing more of this to the table? And is there a way that they can help? I mean, what can I do?
Well, yeah, I mean, I'm happy that people, you know, certainly they can email me. That's fine. They can make suggestions. I'll try and keep up with reasonable emails. They can buy the book. They can click on the YouTube channels.
Those sort of things help. I mean, yeah. Any suggestions?
Yeah, no, definitely. And you got a PayPal, right? Is there a way that if someone wanted to donate, they could donate?
Oh, they can. I have been really slow to do, but yes, there are contribution buttons on my website, not on YouTube. But not on YouTube, but on my website.
Yep, there are contribution buttons, if someone's so mine. And I'm pleased to say it just shows you without any real prompting for me. I've had some really nice contributions from people.
Because I mean, I make jokes about it all because how else can you tolerate all this nonsense? You know, it's the only way you can get through it. But some people sent me really, really, you know, heartfelt thanks
because they have been abused by the church, you know, they have been abused by religion, and sometimes in terrible ways, you know, whether it's as children or as adolescents or what have you, or even, you know, I've had people write to me, I've been a pastor for 30 years
and I've suddenly realized, or I've eventually realized this is all horse shit and I'm getting out. You know, it's refreshing when you get that sort of feedback.
Yeah.
And the Christians, I always know the believers because they're very fond of quoting a bit of their scripture and praying for me. That's what I usually do. They pray for me.
I usually spell it all wrong and get the grammar wrong, you know, and you know they're struggling. Because I suppose if they've built a worldview on it, it's a bit of a hard, you know, hard swallow, but there you go. Do you want to live in reality or with a delusion?
Ladies and gentlemen, Ken Humphries was joining us here on MythVision. Go to his website, jesusneverexisted.com. If you like what we're doing here, show us some love down in the description. You can hit us up on the PayPal.
I always plug this. Not very many people do it. Very rarely do we get it. But when you guys help us, we get to bring on guests. And when we have some funds in the purse, I can offer our guests for their time to bring them on.
You guys request all the time. You want certain people. You want to see this. You want to see that. We're more than happy to do that. If you guys can help us to get them on the show, to interview, that would be great.
So I just want to plug that in there for anyone who's watched this far. Ken, thank you for joining us on here. And look, next time we got to go, we got to go do this again for sure.
It's been a pleasure. It's been a pleasure. And I look forward to that. Yeah, real soon. Yes, sir. Take care now. Peace.
