Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis Armand-Thonone and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
Thank you gentlemen. Once again, I seriously appreciate this. Let's get right into it.
Christians have said over and over and over. This dying and rising God thing has been debunked
since the 1900s, Dr. Carrier. You're like way, way past the deadline of this thing. It's already been
disproven when William Lane Craig went up there and debated Dr. Robert M. Price on this topic
and he said, oh, this, come on. Are you kidding me? This is a 150-year-old myth itself of dying
and rising God and Jesus has nothing to do with that. Yeah. You wrote on this and you did a thing.
Yeah, I've done. And actually, this is another example of where our younger scholars are starting
to like get on board with this. There was a big trend against it to try and oppose it and it was
largely based on misrepresentations of even what the thesis was. So to get people squared away here,
the idea is that the idea of dying and rising deities, particularly sons of God, some cases
daughters of God, was a ubiquitous fashion. It was a trope at the time. It was very common,
tons of different examples all over the Mediterranean, ancient Near East and beyond.
So that when you suddenly see Jesus as a dying and rising son of God, when you look in context,
that's like, you know, John Wick part seven or something. It's been done a million times, right?
So it doesn't suddenly look strange at all. It's not like some new radical idea.
Now, it is true like certain aspects of this come from Judaism. Judaism had adopted
their idea of resurrection from Zoroastrian actually comes from Persian, the Persian conquerors.
They get the idea of resurrection. And so they have their own particular models and ideas and
concepts of resurrection. And then those get imported onto Jesus. But the general idea of
he dies, he is dead. He comes back to life and is now alive, right? And so that like that model,
no matter how it's done, whether it's in the same body or different bodies, or whether it's as a
baby or as an adult or whether how you're killed, like it doesn't matter. All those are little
particulars that only instantiate the general mytheme. The general mytheme is there is a death,
they are dead, and then they're alive again. And that's and bodily like we can be that specific.
Because they do understand this is a bodily resurrection. It's not souls going off to heaven.
A resurrection is really coming back from the dead in a literal sense, even in the pagan world.
So when the Christians go around spreading this idea, they have a ready audience that are already
they get it there. Oh, yes, I understand what you're talking about. And even in the sense that
we're telling you this idea to prove to you that you too can rise from the dead and you can have
an afterlife, a good afterlife. That was also familiar. All these other mystery religions had
the same thing, their savior cults. You can have a great afterlife. Now they weren't all resurrection
cults. They might have a resurrecting God narrative as their salvation narrative. But the salvation
being offered might have been more specific, like you'll get a nice apartment in heaven or
something, right? So it depends on what the specific mystery cult was, but they were all
offering salvation in the afterlife of some kind. And they were all many of them, not all of them,
many of them are offering it on a model of a dying and rising God. And to be clear here,
I want to like make sure we don't give too much cover to false ideas of this. So Horus is not a
dying and rising God, Mithras is not a dying and rising God, their narratives are different.
They're similarities, but they're not dying and rising gods, and they are salvation
cults related to these. But that's different. When we're talking about dying and rising gods,
we're talking about actual dying and rising gods. We have actual ancient pre-Christian evidence,
and one of the arguments will be like, well, maybe the pagans borrowed it from the Christians.
It doesn't make sense, because the pagans hated the Christians. I don't know why they would borrow
it. But we have actual evidence that predates Christianity. So we know for a fact that this
happened. And so there is pushback on this idea. But the latest scholarship is really showing that
that pushback is unreasonable. It's denying evidence. It's making the same kind of rhetorical
mistake of focusing on particulars and ignoring the Mithim. So it's the same kind of strategy.
It's more of a rationalization to deny facts rather than accepting the reality of what's
going on here. And one of the examples of these, so one of the recent studies that kind of reversed
the course of scholarship on this was Mettinger. So Mettinger, I might not be pronouncing his name
correctly, but he wrote a book on the Riddle of Resurrection. I wrote actually a few books on this,
but the Riddle of Resurrection is one of them, where he goes over all the ancient Near Eastern
narratives. This is pre-Hellenistic, right? So this is, we're talking pre-500 BC stuff. And he
shows like, no, there's all these dying and rising gods even then. Now he's writing for
context, it's long predates Christianity by hundreds of years. And these are not mystery
cults that he's talking about. He's talking about, these are, you know, old ancient Near Eastern
religions, usually agricultural cults. Is this like what Derek Bennett did when he talked about
Baal, like the Baal Resurrection? Yeah, right. Exactly. There are some Baal narratives that are
clearly dying and rising god narratives. Totally true. Probably agricultural themed. So this is
pre-salvation cult, right? So there's a thing that happens after. So people will say, well,
Medinger, these are, these look how different these gods are. Maybe even if they are dying and
rising gods, they're too different and they're too far away from Christianity who have influenced
it. And it's like, yeah, yeah, but that's, he's only studying a different period. You have to then,
we'll then go through the next 500 years, right? So if you look at what happens after, he goes up to
like, you know, 500 BC. Now what does the literature show in the next 500 years? Well, it shows these
gods, many of them evolve into these salvation cults that are populating the whole world. And then,
boom, Christianity comes along in exactly that context. And if you look at the Jews,
when the Israelites, when they were conquered by Persia, and they adopted the idea of Satan,
they adopted the idea of a burning hell, they adopted the idea of resurrection, the apocalypse,
linear history, they got all of that stuff from the Zoroastrian idea of, you know,
there's going to be an end times that's going to be general resurrection, all Zoroastrian,
all pagan ideas. And they borrowed it from their conquerors at the time. So your conquerors have
all these great ideas. We have a great religion. Why doesn't our religion have these great ideas?
Well, clearly, our God must have thought of it too. And so once, there you get it, right?
Now what do we have? We have the Jews get, the Israelites get conquered by the Greeks and then
the Romans. And so they have different conquerors. What is their great cell? Well, these cultures
come along with these salvation cult ideas, the sons of God that died and rise or had some sort of
passion through which they gain power over death. And they sell it to their followers. And so there's
right, we can get into that at some point. But, but that's all. So, so it's, this is the same
context. So it doesn't, it totally fits context that they would borrow these ideas,
Judaize them, they're not claiming, they stole them, they're claiming that they had,
they were in Judaism all along, right? So, so it's like this, you know, resurrection,
they claim that that was always a Jewish idea. And it was always in the scriptures or whatever.
And so that's what the Christians did. They did the exact same thing. And it makes a marketable
religion in context. And yeah, it is also, it's very congealed with, very coherent with the Jewish
expectation of the apocalypse, which is one of the reasons it was such a great idea at the time.
So, so it totally makes sense in context. And the reason why there's pushback doesn't make any sense,
that these are people who are not looking at the evidence or are distorting the evidence when they
do, because they're dead set against denying that this is the case, because they don't want
Christianity, they want Christianity to be unique, some sort of powerfully unique religion that
isn't, it was coming up with some new great idea that no one else had thought of before.
And that's not the case. No, it's it very much is a creation of its time.
Dennis, would you like to maybe tack on to this some? I mean,
I would, but I want to come at it in a rather different way. Of course, yeah.
Some would suggest that this more history of religions way of understanding the importance
of this myth theme is the transitions from one culture to another are sometimes very thin
in terms of evidence. So we don't know the mechanisms. We can see similarities between
Zoroastrianism and early Christianity and some Egyptian religion and so on and the Greeks.
But there's, I think, a legitimate academic contestation about what are the mechanisms
for the transmission of these. How did it happen? What is the specific causal root?
Which is earlier and so on. So I tend to be more skeptical probably than Richard is on
the history, so-called history of religions way of understanding this issue. So I want to come
at it just a little differently, which is not an argument against it. It's just a question.
It's a different way to it. It's a different way to it. And I want to start with Joseph Campbell
and the hero with a thousand faces, which we mentioned in an earlier taping.
And very simply put, Joseph Campbell holds to a Jungian understanding of universal consciousness
and argues that the primary mythic pattern is very simple. It goes from a time of relatively
peaceful stasis to liminality, often caused by opposition or illness or some tragedy.
And as a result of that, the individual who survives it is stronger and then it has not a
tragic line. It has a comedy line. Namely, there's this restoration of the positive and even stronger
because of having gone through. If it doesn't kill you, it strengthens you, something like that,
right? And he shows that it's so fundamental to the major stages of human life. We go from the
mother's womb into the liminality of being on our own and crying and needing nourishment
and then going through life and getting stronger and stronger and stronger so that we come out of
that liminality stronger. It happens when young people leave home. They go to school. They're
protected at home. All of a sudden, they're in a college dormitory. They're not going to pass
their calculus exam, but through that ordeal, they become stronger and they become adults and so on.
And he argues that the same thing happens in every culture in this subconscious of going from life
to death and then the pattern is a restoration after death of something that's actually better
than life. And you see this in Plato, for example. Now, I really do think that it would be surprising
if early Christians did not have some kind of seminal figure to represent that pattern
of moving from liminality through crisis to salvation in a way. And of course, Jesus was
considered by many to have been a valued Jewish teacher and suffered great liminality. Namely,
he was crucified for his vision and it caused a crisis of understanding. And so you have this
understanding of a resurrection, which is there in not just the subconscious, but also in the
tradition. Exquisite Jewish cultural understanding. That is immediately available. It's available,
but it also is available in the Greco-Roman world. We can talk about Romulus at some point,
but we also have it. And early Christians said, just as Heracles had a terrible death and became
an Olympian, so Jesus died and is glorified. The same thing with Dionysus. Dionysus is killed
by Titans and he's restored in life and is also an Olympian. So that in this case, we don't have
to talk about missing cultural links from one culture to another in the history of religions
way, which has its own legitimacy. But it is hard to chain those ideas together.
And in some cases, there seem to be missing links, in my view, that some are stronger than others.
But certainly with these Christians, you have inside of Judaism and in the Greco-Roman world
in, at the same time, this very satisfying myth of restoration, of that death is, a tragic death
is not the end. And in the Greek world, sometimes that would, that eternity, it would be renowned.
If you had a tragic death like Achilles, you'll be remembered forever. If you have this tragic
death, you'll be king of the dead and so on. So my understanding is less history of religions
than it is this psychological need that people have to make sense of tragedy.
And it's virtually universal. Now, the shortcoming of Joseph Campbell
is that he didn't account for sociological differences and cultural differences between,
so it all becomes a monomyth and it becomes a little like oatmeal.
The zeitgeist of its own type of thing, did you say?
Well, it's, yeah, it's, yeah, I know, I absolutely know what you're talking about.
I wouldn't, I wouldn't rag on Campbell nearly as bad as zeitgeist, but it,
it, it, there's a different errors happening here. But yeah, he's, he's seeing it from his
own cultural perspective and laying that on all cultures. Every culture is going to be different.
And so the, the actual materials available for you conceptually to build one of these myths is
going to vary in context. So, so that's the thing that he, that he didn't take into account,
because I mean, he was Jungian. So Carl Jung had really weird ideas about how this works. But
that's a causal system that we do not, I do not accept. So I'm definitely not a Jungian about
this. No, I, the way I see it is similar to what Dennis just said is, and let's assume
historicity for a moment, right? Because this is about resurrection, doesn't matter whether Jesus
existed or not. So even if Jesus was a man and died tragically in exactly that way,
you have people cognitive dissonance, you have, you know, what is the, when prophecy fails,
that book, right? That's the idea of cognitive dissonance is originally developed. Is this
whole idea, okay, we know that the usual very, our very common response, maybe usual is not the
right word, but definitely a common response to this is not what we expect is not resignation and
failure and running away. Very often people double down, they come up with a new myth to explain
and valorize the heroes, they know this death wasn't tragic, it was actually great and wonderful,
and here's why, you know, the, whatever the tragedy is. And there's been many Sabatizevi,
and there's been various other examples that you could point to about this. But so, so these,
what will, what will happen? So you're in this situation, you've got cognitive dissonance,
you're going to reach around, well, maybe reach in your head, but your head is full of tropes,
full of culture, of things that you know, models that you've seen and are familiar with,
what is the cultural material available to you? And even Jews and Judea will be familiar with,
at this point, the pagan models, they definitely would know this, even if they didn't like them,
they would, they would be aware of them. Well, yeah, you have, you have Hellenistic traders,
you have Jews from the diaspora, pilgrims, pilgrimages back, taking pilgrimages back,
they're taking ideas with them. Greek traders are taking ideas with them. Jews interact with
Godfingers, it's another example, who are Gentiles who are interested in Judaism, and they're also
in Judea. Cities around the Decapolis and Tyre and various, these are full of these sects.
So they know, they know the cultural model, the pagan cultural model exists, but they also have
the Jewish model, right? They have this Jewish idea of a resurrection, and it was associated
with the end times. So the end times is going to, is going to be a resurrection and so on.
And you see already in Paul, he's saying that Jesus is the first fruits of the resurrection.
So he sees this as the beginning of the general resurrection, right? He sees it as part of the
whole thing. That's why he thinks the end is not nigh, right? And I don't think Paul is inventing
this. I think this is the early Christian sect themselves. They converted the death of Jesus
into the, basically the signal, the sign that the end has come. And the idea that Jesus has
been resurrected confirms this to them. He says, oh, the general resurrection has started.
Our Lord has been resurrected. He's going to give the same thing to us. We now have to get the message
out because the end is coming anytime now. So they're looking for, when they build the solution
in their heads, they're going to use the materials that's available to them. And this comes from
Judaism and it comes from the surrounding pagan ideas. And when they see a congruence between
the pagan models and the Jewish model, then that would be an example of something telling them,
this is some sort of universal truth that God is communicating in the world. So it must be true,
right? So even having the pagan models, it's not like they like looked at a specific sect and said,
we're going to make Jesus a model out of that. They see the model in generic terms, right? So they
know there's no Cyrus. They know there's a, you know, a Baal. They know there's all these different
Hercules, Delacanus, and all these others. Romulus is another example. So they know all of these
models exist. And so they see the commonalities. So what is in their head is the commonalities,
the themes, not necessarily specifics, right? They're not interested in the specifics. They're
interested in the theme. And they see the theme is coming from their own God in their own scriptures
or in the way they believe it. So they see this as a universal truth. So this to them is going to be
an obvious model to borrow from to create a solution to the problem that's confronted them.
So in the historicity model, it's very plausible in context that they would come up with a
resurrection belief, justify it and go, and this would motivate them even more to go forth
and sell it and try and convert people. I had an interesting question earlier and me and Dennis
were trying to wrap our heads around it. And I think it was from Dr. Price to Dennis, but
me and Dennis were like, I don't know. You aren't sure if there's something here. Maybe I can pose
it here because it was just a toss away. We really didn't know what to do with it. Maybe you have
some insight on this. And he says, and I'm just going to give you like in a nutshell what we have
here. I have read Titus 212 continued in Acts 1728 preserve or I have read that Titus 212 continued
in Acts 1728 preserves portions of a poem credited to Epiminities rebutting the Cretian belief that
Zeus had been gored to death by a boar like Adonis and that pilgrims were shown the God's tomb.
No says the poem. He arose. I also have read that Dionysus means young Zeus. If this is so,
is it a vestige of the belief that Zeus was resurrected, i.e. reborn? Do you think Paul's
harping on this resurrection reborn by quoting Epiminities? I honestly can't evaluate that because
there's so many claims and statements in there that I would have to fact check before I could even
begin to evaluate that. The only thing I can comment on there is that Dionysus is Dios Nusos.
It is actually something similar to young Zeus. So there is truth in that because the Dios is
another form of Zeus. And there was a legend of Zeus being killed and the tomb being shown and
so on. There are poems by Epiminities about it. So there's some things that are true but
the rest of it, there's a lot of connections being made there that I'm not sure hold up.
I can't vouch for it. It's interesting. Here's a question. I'm going to go back to an earlier
statement that you made. And it's a question that I raise with my seminary students when we
talk about these things. And is the resurrection of Jesus important to you because it's unique
and only Jesus rose from the dead? Or is it important because it's the Christian variation
of a universal need for handling tragedy and finding salvation? And I said, for me,
the function of the myth is not to show that Jesus is unique, but that Christians shared
in the human need for restoration and redemption. And what's happened, I think, is that the focus
on Christology and the uniqueness of Jesus has really blinded us to the universality of the
mythologies of Jesus. And that can preach in a very different way. So on the one, you understand
what I'm trying to do? I do. Yeah, I know. I think you totally make sense. And it's a way of getting
students to think, are you going to preach at Easter that only Jesus is the one who has eternal life
and has life or makes it available to others? Or are you going to say that this is a part of
universal experience of trying to make sense out of tragedy? I would love to see that become what
happens because anyone can do that with any story at that point, which then creates connectiveness
among very good observation. We can walk into a place and go, we know that this is just us as
humans connecting narrative-wise in the same struggle, and we want to paint a narrative we
can all agree in this particular way. Yeah, I mean, obviously, that is not what happened.
And we already see in the second century this tendency to make this a controversial issue,
where the Christians are saying it's important to our success, they've decided to declare all the
other religions false, therefore all the other resurrections false. The devil did it, as Justin
Martyr says, in order to, so that our religion will be successful, so that our values will be
adopted. And one could also argue that our churches will get the money and so on. There's
other motives here, but even if you think of it as a righteous motive, that it's our value system is
the only value system that can save society, the only way people will adopt our value system is
that they believe our guy is the only real one, ergo, we have to defend Jesus as unique. And that's,
I think, kind of the whole history of Christianity here in the nutshell is driven by this idea that
our values have to beat out all other values, therefore our story has to be true and every
other story false, and that's what you get. You bring up second century, which you're right,
there's in-group, out-group stuff right here. When I read Zvi-Beneath and Adi-Ophir,
Rosensvi, not Zvi-Beneath, but Rosensvi, Adi-Ophir and Ishai Rosensvi, sorry,
they wrote a book called Goi, and it's all about the Gentiles, the others, right? And they go into
this history, like, all the way back, right? As far as you can go, they go into the Greek stuff and
show, like, there's even the Goyim, the nations, but in Greek it's the ethne, ethnos and stuff,
and they go into, like, the history of this term being used biblically, then they go down into
the first century, how Paul does this, he does this strange individual usage of the term, which
made it really, really, is it synchronic, is it diachronic? I don't even know the diachronic,
I don't know, anyway, these are like technicals, right, and you know, like, what's going on, and
Christine, and all these people are, like, really involved in this discussion, but when you get to
the second century, it's no longer Jew and Gentile necessarily from the church, it's heathen or
Christian, and like, they do this in-group, out-group thing the whole time, but Paul's already
set in the stage when he's like, oh, you foolish Galatians, like, I wish Dennis was right, and this
is what someone came, kicked every Christian's ass and said, stop, okay, that's not the message,
the message is a shared mythos of struggle and human consciousness, whatever you want to call it,
you don't even get woo-woo about it, it's just the fact that we actually connect as humans in
this experience we have, and this is what we're trying to achieve, here's our common myth, we
call it a myth, and we're okay with that, we don't think it's some superior thing, we just think
this is something we all experience, and we can connect on the same narrative.
But see, this is why social identity theory is important, that the myth becomes functional
to support the in-group against the out-group, and so your leader has to be the one who has
the special divine privilege, and you demonize and stereotype the out-group, because it gives you
the mere image of yourself. Yeah, right. See, but that's why what you're saying makes so much sense
about this whole thing. Like why it happens, yeah, we know why it happens. They hemorrhize it, or they
make it more and more historical, because, I mean, if we're all sharing the common thing, it's like
what happened to me when I deconverted, I started to go, okay, I saw these patterns that you guys
were talking about, not all of them, of course, I haven't read everything you've read, but it's like,
I started seeing it, I'm like, why do I think Jesus is the one and only, you know? So I started
to go, maybe, and this is what happened to me, I had a God concept, it was a very, very strict,
very concentrated God who controlled my every move. I thought he's looking down at me and the bad
things I did, and oh man, whatever might be, I was shunned in my own head. Well, when I started to
realize that this is everywhere, I went, hold on, God, you know, see where my mind went, God is in
all the cultures, and he's bigger than Christianity, but here's what happened when I did that. When I
brought in my whole perspective, it lost its power in my life. Yeah, yeah. So it was like, okay, now
which is what Christians fear, right? That's what they're afraid of. Well, that's because it's true.
And that's the problem now. It's like, what's you doing? Everybody fears the truth, yeah.
It's Pringles. Once you pop, the fund don't stop. That's all I can say, you know.
Gentlemen, we got two minutes. Any closing words? I think I would like to be generous to people
who are afraid of the ambiguities of the world, and to cling to these myths in special ways,
because it allows them to make sense of the craziness of what it means to be a human being.
And I think there are psychological benefits to holding to mythic ideas, and the resurrection
is one. And what you experienced is the anxiety of existence when you said, when you realized that
things are universal, and that your special little piece of fundamentalist Christianity
didn't work for you. It was freeing, but that freedom comes at a cost of anxiety. And the reason
we have social identity in religion is that people want other people to share their mythologies,
so they're not so afraid in the universe. And that is also a universal impulse. I'm afraid
of the ambiguities of the universe, and climate change, and racism, and our inability to get a
hold of what it means to be human and compassionate. And I think we can talk about myth negatively,
but I think that there's something that has to do with human meaning, in
meaning making through mythology that helps us cope with the dangers of being humans in the
universe. And my view on that is we can get this out of fiction, and we can do a whole thing about
how Blade Runner, I think, does the same kind of thing you're talking about as a movie.
We don't have to believe it's true to get the message and to be comforted and even motivated
by that message. Absolutely. Thank you.
Thank you so
much. Appreciate it.
