Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Temple, temple language, temple talk, we've got Martin Barker talking about temple and its connection to creation.
Very interesting things that delve into the temple, the time of the Maccabees, the burst temple's destruction, and then of course second temple period.
We have a final second temple situation happen in the war with Rome and Israel or the Jews in Jerusalem in 70 AD.
And so the temple needs to be cleansed by Jesus according to the narrative in the Gospels.
What is going on? Why were they cleansing the temple? What was going on? Is there any historical background to this, if you don't mind?
Yeah, so in the New Testament, beginning with the Gospel of Mark, we have this scene where Jesus comes in, he marches into Jerusalem,
and eventually, depending on which Gospel you read, either in the very beginning of his time in Jerusalem or at the very end right before he's crucified,
he goes to the Jerusalem temple and he basically throws a tantrum. He gets a knotted rope and he starts hitting people, he's kicking over tables,
he just hulks out on everyone in the temple. They're desecrating his father's house, they've turned it into a den of thieves, so on and so forth.
And it's like this really crucial point in the story. In some Gospels, it's the thing that gets him in so much trouble that he's officially brought upon charges.
And it's sort of like the straw that broke the camel's back. It's the thing that leads to his arrest and ultimately his crucifixion.
Unless you read the Gospel of John, in which it's something he does in the very beginning and it doesn't even really matter that much.
But Michael Bay wrote the Gospel of John, so that doesn't matter. Anyway, so it's his crucial part in the story, but we're not really sure why it's crucial.
So in there, he's going in to get rid of these money changers in the temple, and we think of these as a bunch of shysters.
Maybe they're skimming off the donations or whatever. They're doing some shady stuff.
But if you look at the historical context, who these people were, there's actually a good reason for them to be in the temple.
Because if you are going to the temple and you want to make some kind of donation, well your coins have a picture of Caesar on them, or some other Roman guy.
And you have to get rid of those coins. You can't donate that to the temple. That's a graven image, and there's a whole commandment about that.
So what do you do? Well, they have these money changers there, and these were guys who would take your Roman currency and they would swap it for basically kosher cash.
They take this pagan money, they make it temple-approved money, and that's what you can donate.
At this time, actually through most of history, you had more Jews living outside of Israel than within.
So if you have someone who has come from out of town, which most of them were, and they needed to make some kind of atonement sacrifice or whatever,
they weren't going to trek 500 miles with a pure chicken, or a goat, or whatever.
So you have to have some way for these people, for all of these hundreds and even thousands of people who are coming to the Jerusalem temple every single year
to get some kind of ritually pure sacrifice in order to sacrifice it.
And so what you would do is you would set up a group of vendors in the temple complex who would sell unblemished chickens and unblemished goats and lambs and cows, whatever.
And you would just go to the temple and you could bring whatever currency you had.
You could get it swapped out for, I guess, ritually pure currency, and then you could buy things like ritually pure olive oil, an unblemished chicken, whatever.
Whatever it is you needed to do for your little atonement sacrifice or what have you.
You didn't have to carry all these animals with you all the way from wherever it is you lived, maybe even southern Egypt.
You could just go there with a handful of change, buy your sacrifice, and that would be that.
So you really didn't want to get rid of that because that was an integral part of the purpose of the temple.
Because in the second temple animal sacrifice was central to its role.
But when we think of Jews, we think of this whole idea of these people who operate within the second temple period and within this sort of Greco-Roman world.
But those weren't the only Jews that were in there. That was just one group of Jews and we had others.
We had people like the Samaritans, like the Essenes, like the Sadducees, a whole like dozens of different sects of Judaism.
And not all of them were cool with animal sacrifice.
So we have these entire groups that thought that animal sacrifice was wrong.
It was pagan. It was outdated. It didn't give you any kind of purity.
And what they thought was that you needed this sort of divine intervention for atonement and for purity.
And they had a very different idea of an atonement ritual. And it did not involve killing a chicken.
And if the stories of Jesus came from one of these groups and not from second temple Judaism,
then their ideas concerning atonement and sacrifice and the whole purpose of the second temple would be very different.
They would actually be opposed to the second temple.
And so while, yeah, you probably had people who were skimming on these offerings and selling you a chicken
and then taking that chicken out back to be sacrificed and then bringing it right back out to sell to the next guy, which almost certainly happened.
That's not really what the story is about. The story is more about this whole sacrifice business.
And this group of people, such as the Essenes, they had a very different idea of atonement and what this meant.
And in their worldview, they were waiting on this upcoming sort of universal atonement, this universal purification that would happen.
And it wouldn't happen by killing a cow. It would happen through this much larger sacrifice.
And the way this would work is you would have this divine figure who would be sacrificed and the blood of a god is much more potent than the blood of a chicken.
And this would sort of replace the animal sacrifice of the second temple.
And so these people would kind of, they would want to get rid of the idea of this temple sacrifice, especially because at the time it was written, that temple didn't exist anymore.
The gospels were written after the destruction of the second temple.
So if you replace it, then you can sort of sell the idea of a new type of sacrifice to people who were once dependent on sacrifice in the Jerusalem temple.
But the roots of it actually go back further than that.
Now we have one reference to it that comes from the works of Homer.
At the end of the Odyssey Odysseus comes back.
He's in disguise.
And there are all these different people, these suitors who are trying to get married to his wife because everyone thinks that he's been dead for like, you know, I mean he hasn't been home for like 20 years at that point or something.
He's assumed dead.
And so all these people, they're trying to get married to his wife.
And you essentially have this whole din of people living in his house, which he inherited from his father.
And they are basically trying to steal everything he has, including his wife, his son, his house, everything else.
And then he basically comes in and he cleanses his house of these people.
And there's some very interesting little things within that story that I won't really go into because my familiarity with it isn't that great at this moment because my book that I'm reading about it, I haven't finished it yet.
But there's a fantastic book called The Homeric Epics and the Gospel of Mark.
We'll look that up on Amazon.
Buy a copy and start reading it as soon as it comes in.
Absolutely.
It is, I wasn't even aware of half of these parallels.
It's mind-blowing.
And the guy has other books on a similar topic.
It's actually growing.
Buy these things.
This kind of mimetic criticism is becoming more popular among scholars.
I'm actually going to be interviewing someone who's a scholar who's not talk to Dennis McDonald, who's a big fan of this material.
And so they think there's something to it.
Yes.
Of course, mimetic criticism is obvious, even with the Old Testament being used in the new.
But is mimetic criticism being used between Homeric epics, Dionysus and Gospel, the Dionysus narrative.
Right, right.
There's a variety of different other epics and poetries and things like that.
Right.
Yeah.
And it's not being discussed that much, but it needs to be.
Because when you start comparing these things, it's not just that the parallels are there.
It's that we have these parallels in a similar context using similar phraseology.
We have names that are being repeated.
That would make no sense within the new context unless they came from another source where they do make sense.
You know, so we have some striking things like that.
And it really does need to be taken more seriously, especially in his book, The Homeric Epics and the Gospel of Mark.
He will show a passage from one of the books from Homer and a passage from the Gospel of Mark.
And when you're reading these things, you're just saying to yourself, it's a good thing that copyright laws didn't exist because Mark would have been sued.
I mean, this is just blatant plagiarism in some of these scenes.
And so, you know, so we have things like that, but we actually have this historic contribution to this story.
And it actually has a direct connection with Jesus.
If you go back to the early second century BC, we have this thing called the Maccabean Revolt.
The Seleucid Empire, which was a sort of fragment of Alexander the Great's empire, it's ruling over Israel.
And this one group of people led by a guy, was it Matthias, I believe?
He's not really happy with what's going on.
What happened was this one guy who ruled the empire, he essentially passed this decree that pretty much outlawed the Jewish religious practices.
And the temple was filled with all these statues of Greek gods and it basically just became a Greek temple.
And so some of these people were reasonably upset.
And so he launches a revolt and one of his sons, one of his younger sons named Judas, he comes along and he kind of takes charge of everything.
And he eventually gets the nickname Maccabeus, which basically, so his name is Judas Maccabeus, which basically means the Jewish hammer,
which is the best name for a Jewish rebel in history.
I mean, come on, the Jewish hammer, that's amazing.
So he comes along, he takes charge, he leads this revolt, and he conquers Jerusalem.
He marches triumphantly into the city.
And the first thing he does is he marches into the temple.
He grabs all of these statues to these Greek gods and throws them out.
The whole temple is perched.
I mean, it's wiped clean.
A new high priest is installed.
The whole thing gets blessed or consecrated or whatever word they use.
And so suddenly the temple has been restored.
It is once again an appropriate worship of Yahweh and not some Greek gods.
And this particular scene is cited.
It is written about it.
It shows up in the fourth section of one Enoch.
And in this scene, when it's written about this portion of his life,
Christian scholars have pointed to this as a prophecy of what Jesus would later do.
And there are numerous other parallels.
He's this one man who arises from this flock of sheep,
and he comes along to purify everything, and he leads some of the lost flock.
But some of the others don't follow him, and they reject him, and all these other things.
And then eventually their enemies kind of throw him down, you know, and he dies.
But then it talks about how these others come along after him, and they kind of continue it.
And this is not talking about Jesus.
It's talking about his younger brother, John Harkanus, who comes along and he basically continues this.
He takes up the leadership role.
He besieges and conquers the city of Ashtad, destroys the Temple of Dagon there,
which we have two different references to that in the Old Testament in 1 Samuel,
where the Ark of the Covenant goes there, and everyone gets cursed,
and the Temple gets all messed up, and the statue of Dagon gets smashed.
And then we have another one in the story of Samson,
where he has this ongoing feud with the people of Ashtad,
and then eventually he ends up over there in the Temple of Dagon,
and he comes out and he smashes the thing, and the entire thing comes down.
Which is curious that those two things in the Old Testament seem to be referencing something that happened in like 167 BC.
But anyway, John Harkanus ends up, he not only conquers Judah, he conquers Israel.
And so the northern kingdom of Israel, which was always bigger and more advanced,
and had a larger army and everything else, he conquers it.
He takes it over the Solucids, he drives them out completely,
and that is now this one unified kingdom, and the whole thing is now being ruled from the city of Jerusalem.
Which seems like it's kind of going back to the days of David,
when you have this one king ruling over both kingdoms,
and he's staying in the royal city of Jerusalem.
But this is actually the first time that we know this actually happened.
We have no evidence that Israel and Judah were united under one throne before this point,
and certainly not under Jerusalem.
I mean, you go back like before the Babylonian exile,
Judah was basically a backwater, and Jerusalem was a small town.
I mean, any one tribe of the northern kingdom would have been able to wipe out everyone in Judah if they felt like it.
I mean, they would have been, the southern kingdom would have been vastly outnumbered and outmatched.
You know, their weaponry and everything was, you know, centuries behind.
But so we have this thing, this sort of different Jewish theology that has this very different view of the Jerusalem Temple.
And they see the purging of it as a return to something old, something pure, something authentic.
And they see the new temple, the new version of Israel, of Jerusalem, as being sort of corrupt.
And I don't just mean like the Greek statues, but I mean the temple practices themselves.
We have a reference in, I believe, Isaiah, where they call the Jerusalem Temple a harlot on a hilltop.
This is strange. These people do not like the second temple, and these are Jews.
So they weren't all keen on the teachings and practices of the Jerusalem Temple.
And you actually see this throughout Christianity, even in the book of Revelation.
They talk about how Christians celebrate the destruction of the temple.
And this doesn't make much sense if they come from second temple Judaism.
They would weep for the temple. They would mourn this. This would be a great tragedy instead.
This is a good thing. And it's because this is a separate sect of Judaism that believed that the temple was corrupt.
It was not doing what it was supposed to do. It's doing things in a different fashion.
It's alien practices that are going on here. And they wanted all that washed away.
They wanted that cleanse. They wanted it gone.
And so I believe that what happened was they took these two stories.
The story of Odysseus cleansing his father's house.
And there are phrases in that story that we see again in the Gospel of Mark.
So there's a connection there.
But I think that they also took the story of Judas Maccabeus.
And I think the author of Mark, who was obviously familiar with both,
saw these two things.
The cleansing of his father's house and the cleansing of the Jerusalem temple.
And had this epiphany, a way to merge the two.
Because so many things about the New Testament, especially Mark, are multi-layered.
Mark is a brilliant piece of Jewish literature, of Christian literature.
It's brilliant. I mean, it's fantastic.
And very much of it is multi-layered.
And so I think this story is as well.
It's multiple layers.
And so you're meant to read it as a sort of new version of the tale of Odysseus.
And as a retelling of what happened with Judas Maccabeus.
And it's taking this corruption in this place that we hold sacred.
And it's flushing it away.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
Because it's gone.
We're getting a new method for atonement.
And it's inside you.
It's in the new temple, which is part of you.
Which this group of Jews have been talking about for about two centuries.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
And it's a way of saying, look, we don't need the temple anymore.
