Today, I ask Paula Fredrickson, in what ways has your mind changed over the decades from
the first publications you've written to today pertaining to Jesus?
She goes on and explains, I want to say thank you to those who made this whole series of
videos.
There's 12 all together possible.
Thank you for joining the Patreon as well for everybody who keeps us going.
I hope you enjoy Paula Fredrickson Paula, I'm interested in knowing as an academic who's
been doing this for a long time.
You have your publication, pull this up here, specifically Jesus of Nazareth, King of the
Jews in 1988.
And then of course, in 1998, there's the PBS front line where you did from Jesus to Christ.
And then of course, the latest greatest, Paul the Pagan's Apostle, which I've really got
a lot of stir up for me and people in my circles.
But what have you, would you say, like you still think, and then what have you changed
your thinking on throughout the process of your scholarship and your publications?
Wow, that's decades we're talking about.
If I hadn't changed my mind, I'd be pretty disappointed in myself.
I think one of the, in terms of Jesus of Nazareth, one of the big differences between the 1988
version of, from Jesus to Christ, and the, it was republished in 2000, and I wrote an
introduction to the 2000 edition, arguing against these, one of the central arguments
in the body of the book.
And what changed my mind was going to Israel and standing on the Temple Mount.
I had, as many people after E.P. Sanders, Jesus and Judaism, had taken the scene in
the temple as the, that whole mark in chronology where Jesus gets in trouble because of flipping
over the, the temple tables.
And Sanders argued that it wasn't, Jesus was not preaching against the temple.
What he was doing was enacting a prophecy of destruction.
And that's what the, was symbolized by the turning over of the tables.
And then there are lots of other places in Mark where Jesus talks about the, you see these
stones, there won't be, these great buildings, there won't be one stone upon another.
So that's one of the reasons why we think Mark is written post, post-destruction.
But having Jesus actually flip the tables means that it's a pre-destruction prophecy
of the destruction of the temple.
And I, I thought that was plausible.
And then I actually went physically to the Temple Mount, and the place is enormous.
It's like a park with several mosques in it.
It was in the original, Herod's original building, the, the wall around the Temple Mount.
He took a Mount Zion right, and he did landfill and made it into a mesa.
And the, the wall around the edge of the temple went for nine-tenths of a mile.
Place is gigantic.
And the courtyard of the Gentiles is the largest courtyard.
And it would have been jammed with humanity because that's where the, the religious tourism
would be, and also Jews cutting through there.
And I looked at it and I thought, there'd be no way that anything would be visible in
this crowd.
The tables of the money changers would have been under the stoa, out of the sun and the
rain.
So somebody's going under the stoa in a corner of, it was like, where's Waldo?
I mean, I couldn't, I thought, this doesn't make any sense.
So that was one, seeing the physical space made me start thinking, wait a minute.
And so, well, maybe just his followers were the ones who kept the traditional live and
they were standing near him.
So they got to see it, but nobody else would have seen it.
But then how did he get in trouble with the priest if nobody could see it?
All right, fine.
And then I started looking at Paul's letters as well.
And if Jesus at this crucial moment in his ministry, if we can use that phrase, predicts
the destruction of the temple.
And if Paul in so many of his letters talks about the signs of the coming kingdom, why
doesn't he know anything about the destruction?
Why is he saying that the Thessalonians, I know people have died before Jesus came back,
but remember the temple has to be destroyed first before he comes back.
He doesn't say anything like that.
So and the fact that Paul, we know, did know Peter and James and John and that original
generation and Paul knows nothing of any such prophecy.
So between 1988 and 1999, I really think the reason that Jesus ends up executed by Rome,
probably with the priest assisting Pilate, because they know the neighborhood, Pilate
just goes up three times a year.
Is that there was such popular acclamation that Jesus was the Messiah.
And Romans don't like kingly figures of subject peoples.
And Rome had a very effective way of discouraging that type of movement.
They killed people.
And would you say maybe the Jews in some sense that obviously don't like this guy bringing
in this message to the temple?
Pilate was made a mess diplomatically.
He brought shields into Jerusalem once when he went up, which had imperial insignia on
them.
And everybody knew that the emperor thought he was a god, and so Jews get all upset about
the shields.
And that's a gaffe on Pilate's part.
He Philo says that he's known for his execution of untried prisoners.
He makes such a mess, there's an incident with a Samaritan prophet and Pilate sends
out the troops, because again, it's a popular prophet, massing a popular following.
Pilate sends out the troops, makes such a bloody mess, he's fired from the job after
that.
So Pilate has a trigger finger, or a lead foot, depending on which metaphor you want
to use.
And I think the only reason Jesus would have, I mean crucifixion is a very public form
of execution.
It's meant to discourage people from doing what the free year is being accused of.
And so crucifying Jesus is like a public service announcement that Pilate's making.
You don't need the priest to be the instigators.
You don't need the temple tantrum to trigger anything, any priestly activity.
And all you need is priests who want to keep the city with the lid on during the holiday
so that everybody goes home basically in one piece.
And so that's how my mind has changed.
What do you think about Jesus being in a niac in Josephus' writings, where he kind of is
saying, whoa, you see these woes in Mark, but like he prophesies the destruction of
the temple.
Yeah, do you think this is written after the war in an invention by Josephus?
It doesn't have to be.
It doesn't have to be.
He could actually be thinking that the temple would be destroyed and he gets beaten and
then released.
He's not killed by the Romans.
The Romans think he's crazy.
He must have been really irritating because he had a several year, I think he begins it
in 62.
So he has a several year run before the war breaks out.
Who knows?
It is interesting to think about.
The fact that the priests aren't going after him for saying that the temple is going to
be destroyed, he's allowed to sing his prophecy for years, unimpeded by the priests.
So again, thank you.
Thank you to those who contributed and to go fund me on making this trip possible for
these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson.
I want to give a special shout out to you.
Your names are chiseled in history.
I also want to thank everybody who has become a patron of MythVision, making stuff like
this possible, taking academic work that is hiding behind all of these scholarships, all
of these colleges and making it public, public knowledge for everybody to learn.
