Dr. Delcey Allison Jr., thank you so much for joining me today here on MythVision.
We have a course together, the quest for the historical Jesus.
I hope everybody will go down in the description, click the web browser, go get you, you need
to sign up today.
I'm telling you, it's an amazing eight lecture course that goes through the historical approach
to what we would say is modern skepticism on the Bible, historical, almost like a scientific
method developed out from the Protestants, all the way through some amazing historical
figures to John Dominic Crossen.
And of course, along the way, nobody does it better than you in the way that I've seen
you explain this.
So thank you for joining me here on MythVision again.
Happy to be here today.
I hope everybody will take the time also to get a copy of your books.
You have so many wonderful books pertaining to the apocalypticism of Jesus, New Testament
apocalypticism where you cover Paul.
And then of course, the one that you talk about the resurrection, I've learned a lot
from that book.
And you try to be fair to both skeptics and Christians.
So everybody, go get you a copy of the resurrection book by Dr. Delcey Allison Jr. in the description.
If I may, Del, I'm going to call you first names since you always tell me, you know, don't
be so formal.
We're going to go through the gospels starting with the most legendary.
And what do you, when I, when I say legendary, how are you defining that term?
Well, I'm not going to define that term.
I would, I would say that there are some stories that are much closer connected to history
and to memory than other stories.
And then maybe a legend is a story that is completely disconnected from, from memory.
So for example, there, there is a story of Joseph and Mary and Jesus going to Egypt and
of the animals they met on the way and how these animals were tame and worshiped Jesus
and so on.
I would call that a legend or there are stories about Jesus going to India or to Japan or Jesus
coming to North America.
I would call those stories legends because there's no memory there at all unless you
want to say, well, Jesus himself was a historical person, but beyond that, there's, there's
nothing there.
But there are, and I think this is really important, there are in my judgment places
in the gospels where legend, if that's the word you want to use, mixes with, with memory.
So I think if you look at Matthew and Luke and the temptation story in Matthew four and
Luke four, you might want to call it a legend.
This is where Jesus is fasting for 40 days and 40 nights and he runs into the devil and
the devil tempts him to do several things and Jesus is successful.
Now without going into the details, I, I think that this is not an historical event as it
happened, but I think it is written up by somebody who is informed about Jesus.
So for example, I personally think that Jesus was an exorcist.
I think he was a successful exorcist.
I think he interpreted his ministry in part in terms of combat with Satan or the devil
and as a successful combat and that memory lies behind the temptation narrative.
I also think, for example, that Jesus was a sort of scripture prophet, somebody who did know
biblical texts and this passage has him or this story or this legend has him quoting scripture,
quoting the Bible and I, I think that catches his character.
Also here in this story, he refuses to do miracles.
He refuses to do what he's asked to do and that fits a couple of other stories.
So maybe that was characteristic of him.
Also, one other thing, I'll stop there, although I could give you some more.
The way this story is written up is a sort of repetition of what happened to Israel
in the wilderness and the quotations that Jesus uses are all from Deuteronomy
and he's fasting 40 days and 40 nights like Moses.
I personally think that Jesus himself had a sort of mosaic, prophetic, self-conception
and he thought of himself as being in a sort of new Exodus, a time like the old Exodus.
So without going further, my point is I'm willing to call this a legend,
but I think it's actually written up with memories of Jesus in mind.
So that makes the separation of memory and fiction, history and imagination very,
very difficult because you wonder at what other places is this going on.
Another place where you would think this sort of thought might be the baptism.
So most modern scholars for decent reasons think that Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist,
but you wouldn't have to be extraordinarily skeptical to say that maybe the voice from heaven
that says this is my son, that this is sort of Christian interpretation or overlay
upon the historical fact. Again, Matthew has John the Baptist come to Jesus
and before he baptizes him, he says, well, this isn't quite fitting.
Shouldn't you baptize me rather than vice versa?
So I don't think with with most scholars, I don't think that's an historical dialogue,
but again, I do think Jesus knew John and I do think John baptized Jesus.
So this is what you might want to call an overlay, theological overlay
onto an historical memory. So once you start thinking like this, it makes everything sort of
slippery. You wonder how many things in the gospel might be like this.
There are so many things you said there that I appreciate and it is tough. So I've been reading,
reading Suetonius, Lives of the Caesars and the divine Augustus birth narrative where he has
portents of his birth and it even has so much overlap in, I would call it a topos for birth
narratives, portents for divine men or very important figures, whoever the author might
be writing about. And in this one, the Senate does not want children to be reared up that year.
It almost looks or sounds similar to Matthew. No identical comparison, but it almost sounds to me
in literature, if people are going to write about these heroes or divine people,
you would write or concoct something like this about them, which would then to me,
if I'm reading Suetonius, I'm not saying there wasn't Augustus. I'm not saying Augustus wasn't
born. I'm not saying Augustus wasn't born by this woman. I'm not saying that, you know,
the point is, is like, I'm reading this and going, huh, red flags. This does not sound like
literal history. It sounds more like they're trying to convey special abilities and powers and
prophecies to this, this king figure, which Jesus has portrayed as a king in the Gospels.
So I go to Matthew and Luke and I look at that and go, this sounds like Suetonius about the
divine Augustus. Is it fair to say that this is not, I mean, who knows if there's memory in any
aspects to it? The point is, is it fair as a skeptic coming to you asking you to see this as
legend? And this is just fanciful writing about a figure rather than taking this as literal history.
So I have throughout my career, when I'm thinking about this historical Jesus, I have started with
the baptism and I have not, as an historian of Jesus, done anything with what comes before
Matthew three or what comes before Luke three. So that means I've not done anything with the
birth narratives. I suppose I should say that there's maybe a lesson here because you're talking
about Suetonius. All right. So you see parallels here. You always have to be careful with parallels
because you can almost always construct parallels and sometimes they're instructive, sometimes
they are not. So if I'm looking at Matthew, I'm actually not thinking of Roman history. What I'm
thinking of is Jewish history. This is where I'm going to start in part because the author of Matthew
was clearly Jewish and Jesus was Jewish. And the texts that he quotes, he does quote text in his
infancy narrative are all from the Jewish Bible. So I'm going to start there. And then I'm going
to remember that in Jewish tradition, the major figure arguably is a guy named Moses. And when
Moses is born, there is an evil king on the throne. And when the savior is born, who will redeem,
rescue, deliver the people as Jesus does, this king slaughters Jewish infants. And if you go
through Matthew's infancy narrative, you see several places where you clearly have Exodus
themes. So at one point, Matthew cites the text, Matthew two out of Egypt, have I called my son?
Well, if you go look that up in the original prophet, it's the Exodus. Out of Egypt, have I
called my son? My son is Israel being called out of Egypt. And Matthew can take that verse. He knows
where it's from. He knows what it's about. And he can stick it in Matthew's story, in his story,
his story about Jesus, because he's working with an Exodus typology. And I guess I won't go through
any more details. But the point is, I actually think that the primary source behind Matthew's
infancy narrative is the story of Moses and then later Jewish legends about Moses. For example,
there was a tradition that Pharaoh learned about the birth of the Jewish savior from Magi, from
magicians. You remember the court magicians in Exodus? They become the people who tell
Pharaoh about this new savior. So there are this whole string of parallels here. And so I would go
back and start with the Jewish source. But to make my other point here, you can find these
parallels in Zootodias, but you can also find infancy stories about the Buddha. And at some
point you realize, well, you find parallels all over the place. So first of all, does this just
tell us something about human nature or human storytelling? But it also means you have to pick
out your stories. That is, if you've got parallels here, parallels there, parallels in another place,
you have to give arguments for privileging one set of parallels over the other. And that's
actually what I've done here, at least with regard to Matthew one and two. I think that the Moses
traditions are the primary drivers of this story here, in which I don't see a lot of history.
Although, I can say, I see no reason to believe that Jesus' parents were not named
Joseph and Mary, and Matthew ends up putting him in Nazareth. I'm pretty sure he grew up there.
So even here, you do have memory, but it's been written up with these other typological
haggotic, whatever word you want to use, legendary themes and motifs.
I'm with you 100%. I definitely think Matthew's major primary source is
Septuagint literature. So I wouldn't make these connections or at least assume some type of
topos if I didn't have an assumption here that we're dealing with Greek literature in the first
century that is not divorced from the Hellenistic world. This is in the Mediterranean. And so I'm
with Richard C. Miller on this and others that are trying to say, hey, you've got this Greco-Roman
world in which this literature is Jewish, and it clearly wants to say, hey, it is written.
So I wouldn't say it's exclusively only Jewish. I would say maybe it's eclectic, a Hellenistic
Jewish world. So everything by the first century is Hellenized. And the New Testament is written
in Greek, and you've got Greek-speaking Christians probably from the very first year.
So no, there's no reason to make artificial divisions. But it is the case that certain
bodies of literature are more important. So I think you can see maybe some influence of Plato
here and there in the New Testament. There's no reason to deny that at all. But I do think that
Pentateuch is more informative than Platonism, let's say, for understanding the Gospels or
understanding Paul. Thank you. Yeah, I appreciate the clarification. And something that came to
mind even in the birth narrative, Luke seems to have language very similar to Plutarch when
he's describing Plato's birth. I had M. David Litwan recently, and he was saying Denimus and
Anuma, of course, they're using similar specific terms describing the birth. And if we are looking
at the Hebrew literature or the Septuagint, we don't have that birth from Moses. So I'm wondering
if there is, I'll use the term infiltration from the Hellenistic world and how these authors are
writing. Kind of like Josephus says, Moses had an apotheosis and ascended. But when I read my
Bible, he died and God took care of him. Well, there seems to be this eclectic, you know, today
we have it in modern society. If I'm going to write a story, you're probably going to see
something that kind of points out, okay, he's been influenced by American society, but he's
harping on an older tradition somewhere or whatever. Yeah. Okay, so first of all,
it is really interesting to me, you can't date this before Talmudic times, but there is a tradition
in the Talmud that Moses had brothers, he was not the first born, and that his mother's hymen
was repaired before Moses was born. Now, this, this is really interesting, right? Because given
all the other Mosaic motifs in Matthew one and two, you wonder, is this one of them also?
Can't prove this, and it's possible that maybe some of the rabbis later on moved to Moses,
some motif associated with Jesus. But I think it's also possible that there is
an act in earlier times, a tradition about the supernatural birth of Moses, which would make
it more in line with what you have in Matthew and Luke. I'm in the minority here, most people don't
even discuss this tradition, but, but it is there.
