We are myth vision.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
Your host, Eric Lambert, heretic of heretics.
And of course, the teacher, the master, the reprobate himself, Dr. Luth.
I'm just kidding.
Dr. Luth is not here.
I can't wait for him to come back and join us, guys.
That book will be available here soon, fingers crossed.
Of course, make sure you guys say your incantations on his behalf.
And don't let anyone who's a fundamentalist hear you.
Dr. Robert McNair Price is with us at this moment.
And I want to go ahead and just pass the mic to him because we have some interesting things
to discuss.
Don't we, Dr. Bob?
Oh, yeah.
You bet.
Yes, I'm, I've been talking with you about, now, what was the first thing we were going
to talk about?
Because I've been talking to you about Joseph a lot lately.
Yeah, we're putting together, based on some ideas of yours and of mine, an article called
I forget the order of the names now, but it's something like Joseph, Jesus, and Osiris.
And the premise is that there are, there have long been noticed striking parallels between
Jesus and Joseph in the book of Genesis, like that he has, as a child, he has a dream
where he is represented as the son, I guess, and all of his family are subordinate planets.
This kind of coincides with the star heralding the birth of Jesus, though, of course, there's
plenty of things like that with astronomical phenomena marking either the birth or death
or both of various figures like Julius Caesar.
So that in itself wouldn't be that powerful, but that's only the beginning because you
have these predictions that Joseph and Jesus will rule everybody else, and it seems kind
of unlikely at the time.
You have the, the chafing of Jesus teaching on his disciples who are ostensibly followers
and they're 12 of them.
And with Joseph, of course, he is the 12th, but that's, that's really not that much of
a difference.
It's just a kind of a variant.
He's one of 12 brothers, sons of Jacob, and they get pretty sick of him.
And so they decide to do him in and they don't actually kill him, but they say, but they,
they do pull off the hoax that he's dead.
And they say to their father, gee, I wish the kid hadn't come out to the field where
we were because a cougar, whatever it was, got him and ripped the poor brat to shreds.
And here's his, his many colored coat with, with blood on it to, to prove it.
And this seems to obviously be much like one of the disciples, the Judas, the betrayer,
brokering Jesus' arrest and death.
And the others not making much of a sterling example of trying to save him, though some
make an abortive attempt.
And then he is, they throw him into a pit and they figure, well, I think, was it the
Reuben or Judah, one of them says, well, I'm going to go back and get him out of this eventually.
I don't want him to die.
And when he gets there, he's gone because it turns out that the wandering slave traders
in one version, the Midianites and the other, the Ishmaelites, they have seen him.
And said, well, look, this is just, you know, find your skippers, let's us sell this kid
as a slave.
But in another version, the brothers make the transaction.
And when these guys happen upon him, they say, Hey, how'd you like this kid as a slave?
We want to get rid of him.
But the pit itself is certainly reminiscent of the tomb of Jesus and finding it empty
even is, is another little wrinkle that they have in common.
So he's like, he's dead symbolically, but he's brought out of the pit or the tomb, which
is kind of interesting, sort of Jesus-like.
And when he's in the, oh, yeah, sorry, then he comes to be some sort of a steward or servant
of the Egyptian nobleman, Potiphar.
And then he gets fingered by somebody in the Me Too movement who falsely accuses him of
rape because she's trying to seduce him and he'll have nothing to do with it.
And so she accuses him and rape or attempted rape.
And so he gets tossed into prison, which again is sort of like the imprisonment of Jesus
in Sheol because in Acts 2, Peter says that the pangs of death couldn't hold him.
And he seems to be, I think there's some linguistic pun involved, implying that the chains of death
couldn't hold him in imprisonment.
Well, he meets two people there consigned to jail, former servants of Potiphar, is it?
Or am I mixing it up?
One of them is a cup bearer.
One is a...
Both worked for the Pharaoh.
Both of them worked in the house of Pharaoh from what I recall.
And that might be one version, but yeah.
No, I think you're right, yeah.
They just happened to be thrown into the same prison.
And they come to understand Jesus, I'm sorry, Joseph's oracular powers, and he makes a prediction
about each one of them.
One is going to be delivered from jail and restored to his position.
The other one, sorry, is going to get executed.
This seems kind of like the story of the crucifixion, where one of the two thieves is mocking Jesus,
and the other one isn't, and says, remember me when you come into your kingdom or when
you come to power, basically.
That by the way is itself a quote from a story by Diodorus Siculus in the second century,
the same century in which Luke was probably written.
And so it's the same idea of the, and then Joseph is released because the Pharaoh is in
need of somebody to interpret a predictive dream.
And so then Joseph comes out of the jail and has a meeting with Pharaoh, more or less corresponding
to Jesus and Pilate.
And there is a wife involved, though she slipped down the chain a bit from the accuser, Potiphar's
wife.
And then comes the wife of Pilate, who was in legend called Procula.
And so in this one, she intervenes when Jesus is about to be crucified.
She says, hey, no, hands off this guy.
I've had what a dream, right?
That theme comes into it again, in which I suffer greatly, which many in the early church
took to mean quite reasonably, that she is dreaming of a future in which she will become
a Christian and be martyred for it, although it could just mean she's tossing and turning
in the grip of a nightmare, either would make sense.
But this dream in Matthew causes Pilate to suddenly change his tune and he starts trying
desperately to get Jesus off the hook.
Well, there's no way that would have happened historically, but if it's a retelling of a
story in which it did make sense, that would kind of help explain it.
And because it's the interpretation of an oracular dream that causes the pharaoh to
not only keep Joseph out of jail, but to make him his right-hand man, his grand vizier,
where he says, look, you obviously have supernatural wisdom, I'm going to put you in charge.
I'll just be the figurehead and all that, and whatever you say, it's okay by me.
But he's alarmed because of the content of the dream.
There's these seven cows that dry up and are skeletons, and then there's seven nice fat
healthy cows.
And what on earth is the meaning of this?
And he says, well, they symbolize coming years of your reign.
There'll be seven, well, I've got to mix up an order, there'll be the seven prosperous
years where the grain harvest will be great.
And in ancient Egypt, the pharaoh owned all the land.
Nobody had any private property, they just kind of rented it from the state.
And so the pharaoh can decide what to do with it.
And he says that the skinny cows are representing seven years of famine to follow.
And he says, if you want my opinion, what you ought to do, well, being forewarned is
forearmed, right?
You should harvest, you should collect all the surplus grain from the first seven years
and stockpile it so you can dole it out to your subjects when things get rough.
And he says, that's a great idea, I'm putting you in charge.
And so he does it.
And what he does saves not only Egypt, but the known world at the time.
Everybody is coming in from all sorts of adjacent countries like Jacob from Israel.
To get the handouts or to buy it, I guess.
And let's see, involved with this, we have other Jesus parallels because there is a scene
where Joseph kind of is equivalent to rising from the dead because his brother's figure,
this kid's long dead, and not that they minded.
And they have dealings with Joseph to get their share of the grain, and he's kind of
playing with them, cat and mouse, making it tough for him.
But eventually when they're in front of him, he had a banqueting table, and they wonder
what's going on.
He says, I might look familiar to you, you might remember me, remember my name's Joe.
And they're all shocked and horrified, they figure Karmus catching up with them, now they're
going to face the music, and he says, look, look, don't worry.
I know you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good, and it's issued in the salvation
of everybody.
You got nothing to worry about for me.
And this is, of course, like the reunion of Jesus and the disciples and the Gospels,
and Jesus' conspicuous forgiveness of the one who denied him, same sort of thing.
And when Jacob comes in with his family, there is young Benjamin who has replaced Joseph
as in his father's esteem.
It's like God has given him a replacement because Joseph was his favorite son.
He's gone.
Well, in the latter days, surprise, his wife bears him another son, it's Benjamin, and
this is as if I never lost him.
This gets over into a parallel in the Osiris mythology.
But first, what did they, what did ancient readers make of this, Christian readers anyway?
They said, well, the story had a meaning in Jewish literature, especially in the diaspora,
because Joseph was pictured as a good, faithful Jew who will not compromise even when he's
in a foreign land, in actuality, they're probably thinking of either Ptolemaic Egypt
or Babylon or some such place, and this is exactly the same as in the equivalent stories
of Daniel and Esther, who are Jews and the three young men, Shadrach Meshach and Abednego
and Daniel too.
They advance in the foreign country, under the foreign government, not by assimilating,
but by refusing to, because it displays the strengths of the Jewish lifestyle.
And of course, the point of this is, readers don't yield at the temptation to worship the
gods of the people around you and eat the unclean food they eat and all that, don't stop
circumcising your kids, don't stop keeping the Sabbath, which a lot of non-Jews thought
was just institutionalized laziness, no, no, you've got to keep that up, and you'll see,
this is the best policy.
Their distinctiveness will do the trick, and in fact, it did, because that's where we
got the so-called god-fearers or pious Gentiles in the surrounding world.
They saw Jews and heard what they believed, and they decided, oh, this god of theirs sounds
a lot better than the crummy deities we're stuck with, I mean, Zeus and Apollo, these
guys are rapists, and they betray one another and all this, the god of Judaism is certainly
better.
Now, you might say, well, is he really, because look at all the genocides and so on, but that's
not what they were majoring on, I mean, they didn't preach on that, in no doubt, in synagogue.
Visitors who were non-Jews said, hey, this ethical monotheism sounds pretty good, let's
attend here, I don't really want to convert totally, but let's, as long as they let us,
let's go to the synagogue, hear their scriptures read and so on.
So they were right, I mean, this did work for hundreds of years, but in Christianity,
they didn't really care about that, that was not exactly their situation anyway, but you
know what the significance in their eyes was, it was typology, that this was the story,
the events, they would say, of Joseph's life were acted prophecies, they all happened,
but they were for a later generation who would recognize in the story of Jesus and the gospels
parallel events as they thought, all historical, and so it's like a prophecy of Jesus fulfilled.
I have to admit, the logic of that escapes me, I'm not sure how the similarity to Joseph
would really make any difference to him, unless of course you're talking about Galilean Christians
who had no interest in a Davidic messiah, because their own ancestors, the Samaritans
among them, but northern Israel generally, they had long since reputed any connection
to the dynasty of David, after that whole business with Solomon's death and then Rehoboam
and Jeroboam, the division of the kingdom, well it's a little hard to believe that northern
Israelite Jews would care much, hey Jesus of Nazareth, he's the son of David, yeah who
needs him, but if he was like Joseph, who in the Joseph story is obviously being narratively
groomed to be the great prince of the northern kingdom, and centuries later we started hearing
of a messiah Ben Joseph, which could mean various things, but might well have meant
that they believed there'd be a different lineage and he would be a latter-day Joseph,
so that makes some sense, but the idea that Jesus' son of David is another Joseph, I
don't know if that makes much sense, I think it's just that Christians were looking around
for anything that would seem to be a precursor to Jesus, I don't know how it verifies it
or authenticates it, but we know they did say, yeah this is just like Joseph, it was
sort of a hint, in fact it's kind of like this weird view of the dying and rising gods,
there were two views of them among Christians, one said that the devil knew from the prophets
that Christ would come and he would have a divine birth, he would die and rise from the
dead, and so he said, you know, if I can get the pagans to believe this about non-existent
gods of theirs, when they hear about the real thing later they'll say, I've heard that story
before, there's nothing to it, well there was an alternate one, the kind C.S. Lewis would
later embrace, but it was, I think Chrysostom may have held this, that these stories were
expressions of a longing innate in everybody for the coming savior of whom they had no
conscious knowledge, but it was like woven into the human psyche somehow, they knew they
needed a savior and that he must die and rise from the dead, and so myth became fact, as
C.S. Lewis said, there were no dying and rising gods in the myths there were, but they never
actually existed, but it shows the longing of the human heart for the one who did, you know,
O come O come Emmanuel. It's interesting how people can come up with such ideas, I mean,
like just throwing this out there, you know how they talk about the god gene,
science is saying that we kind of had this innate inherent drive for something superstitious
beyond us that we naturally draw to, it sounds like something that he is tapping into in a way,
very superstitious approach, but by suggesting that the reason all these stories look like it
is because truly there was supposed to be the true one, and I feel bad for the guys who really
fell for the wrong thing then, that sucks for them, right? I mean, goodness gracious.
Yeah, this would be like the pagan
prophetess or symbol or whatever in Acts 16, when Paul and Barnabas, I guess, show up in
Philippi's at Silas, Paul and Silas, yeah, this woman who is a slave and tells fortunes, Lydia,
well, no, I think it's supposed to be Lydia who doesn't actually say she comes in a little later,
she's saying, hey, everybody listen to these guys because they're telling you the true way of
salvation. And then Paul shuts her up for some reason. But Luke, why is Luke recorded? Well,
for a couple of reasons, I think, if you read my book, The Widow, Traditions in Luke Acts,
it's because as a second century ecclesiastic Luke is trying to silence women's prophecy.
But originally, before he got to it, the idea was it's just like in one of the pastoral epistles,
as even one of their own poets has said, so and so, it's like, don't believe me, even a pagan has
said this, so you ought to listen. I think that's, that was kind of the point. And
or like Virgil saying that a child will lead them, that was similar to I think something
in Isaiah. And there's sort of a point to this, it's like the law of biographical analogy or
structuralism in myth that in different places, different people with the same basic equipment
upstairs wrestle with a range of similar problems and inevitably come up with a range of similar
answers. So it's not that odd. But they couldn't help see it from their standpoint. They wanted
Christianity to be unique. And so they, this was the theory. And to me, the idea that Joseph
prefigured Jesus is sort of like that. It's like saying, well, it was already being
broadcast at least to the people of Israel, though they couldn't quite have understood it at the time.
But in retrospect, and that's often what New Testament coins of prophecy mean, like in Matthew,
how did he know Jesus and his family went to Egypt and came back? He quotes Hosea 11-1 out
of Egypt. I've called my son, well, he wasn't an illiterate fool. The guy was the greatest scholar
of the New Testament as a whoever he was. He was trained in rabbinic lore and Christian teaching
too. And he knew it meant that my son coming out of Egypt had to do with the exodus of the
Israelites from Egypt. He knew that what he's doing is like what the Qumran sect did and say that,
yeah, yeah, we know what it said. But now a new hidden meaning has been revealed to us.
And so on. Well, that's what they're doing. They're not like the con men and idiots
that some critics make them. Like always just taking it out of context. These boobs will never
be able to read their own copy anyway. They don't have them. So let's just tell them the Bible says
this. They really believed in their own secret like we talked about. There's perceptions. There's
different perceptions we can put on this. You could say, well, the reason why there's so many
similarities is because really inherently the divine within us is all trying to reach out. But
this one's the real one. Or you could say, hey, maybe there's some type of, if you want to be
scientific and natural about it, maybe there's something in the brain that causes us all to
somehow try to fill in the missing link, so to speak, and not understanding things. And so we
superimpose a supernatural or metaphysical explanation. Maybe there is one. Maybe there
isn't one. And we kind of do that. So there's always perceptions to look at. But Dr. Bob,
I want to take you back real quick for a second because you said some interesting things talking
about Joseph. This is the logic I'm getting. And there's perceptions. You can look at this once
again and get lost in a variety of different ways of trying to maybe perceive this. But
it seems to me, when you find the parallels, when you see the foreshadow come into fruition,
and you look at the story of Joseph, and then you look at Jesus, and it's a rewrite. It really is.
There's very few things that are changed purposefully, in my opinion, more parallels than not.
Yeah.
In almost the same exact sense, other than maybe the wife didn't try to sleep with Joseph.
Instead, here he had a dream. She had a dream. And so there's different ways in which the
New Testament author places these things. Do you think the revelation of him revealing
his circumcision to his brothers at that dinner table? And I kind of want to mention that because
here we have the Last Supper taking place, so to speak. And you have the revelation of,
here's my circumcision. Now, here's the interesting thing. We know Paul talks about the circumcision
of heart, which the New Testament author has a different angle. They're trying to take that. But
if you take the circumcision that Joseph finally reveals his true identity to them,
that circumcision is the Thomas fill of my hands, fill of my side revelation to the disciples,
but particularly to one, the twin, Thomas. And notice the twin of Joseph is the one
that comes in as the replacement of Jesus. Here, there's similarities. They're not identical,
but Thomas is being revealed, the hands and fill the wounds. And that's how he knew,
oh, it is you Lord. Oh, there's a replication. And here's the problem. Here's what all this to
get to the point I'm trying to make. And anytime, you know, you can call me. I've got a lot more
that came to mind when we talked about these parallels. I don't want to bog down the show with
because there's a lot more, I think, here. Once you see that, once you recognize and the light bulb
goes off, like the background behind me, just okay. By the way, if you haven't gone to Robert
Imprice.mindvinder.com, you better do so now or we will find you. Anyway, back to the story.
In line of this, Dr. Bart Ehrman and I have the recording. I'll put it down in the description
for anybody watching. A good friend of mine, Greg, actually sent this to me. Dr. Bart Ehrman said
that a guy named Jesus, he believed actually predicted the fall of the Jerusalem Temple.
And he was debating a Christian and you thought there would be like, all right, here's where we're
splitting hairs. And they said, well, here we're going to probably have a difference of opinion.
The temple's destruction is predicted. And Jesus predicts it because the Gospels were
written before according to the Christian. Bart agrees. The Gospels could have been written before.
I actually do believe that there was a guy who was a messianic figure who actually did predict
the fall of Jerusalem. When you see these parallels, all right, and that's a crazy statement
coming from Bart, in my opinion, to suppose. It's surprising, yeah. He accepts what the text says
at face value far more, in my opinion, than when we're doing all this back work, all in the
background and seeing the threaded nature of this text being parallels and retellings and images
that are just being copies of this and like in different ways. Where is this, where is this trust
that you can have in this text to say there was a guy named Jesus really predicting the fall of
Jerusalem? Where do you find that? Well, I think that one possible argument is that Jesus must,
well, the argument from embarrassment that if he did predict this and it didn't happen,
then they could hardly have made it up because even though the temple destruction happened,
ensuing end of the world did not. And if that's all one package, as it looks like the Gospel
writers are trying to make it, Bart might say, well, they never would have made up such a thing
in light of what actually happened or didn't. So maybe he did. But there are other possibilities.
Timothy Colani, a Roman Catholic priest in the 19th century, said, I have a hunch that the
original mark on apocalypse simply had Jesus answer the disciples question,
when will the temple be destroyed? I mean, that's what they ask him. And that the apocalypse itself,
most of chapter 13 was interpolated from what Eusebius tells this was a Christian
pamphlet circulated just before the when they could see that Jerusalem was under siege and it was
about to to be destroyed. And that's why it says when you see this, get the heck out run for the
hills that you could see it coming. And that somebody made this apocalyptic track to warn
everybody. Well, Colani said that that got stitched into it at some point, but that originally
Jesus answered to their question, when will these things be is no one knows the day or the hour.
And that the whole thing, which seems to contradict that, I mean, he's telling you step by step what
you can say. So originally, that may not even have been in the Gospel. I'm not saying, oh,
that's probably true. There's just no way to know. But then you can't dogmatize about the
opposite either. How can you make a statement like that as a scholar, though, like what he's
saying? Just to me, it's like, he I do I can play the clip. If I need to pull it up, I'll play it
up and share the screen and show our audience. He said, Jesus, that he believes was a real guy
according to the Gospels. Now, we're not even talking about Paul yet. Okay, we're literally
talking about the God, the fictional historical fictional accounts, Gospels, he trusts. And I
don't know for what reason that this guy came along and says, hey, not one stone will be left
upon another unless he thinks that was embellished, but he really was predicting the destruction of
this thing. I think there were many people who had a hunch that it was going to be attacked.
But in my opinion, I doubt anyone went around really firmly saying, look, this whole damn thing
is going to fall. It was so big and enormous. And probably something they thought would never
happen. Why would they go about doing that? What's more likely? And this is where I come in, in my
opinion, they wrote it after it already fell. I mean, to say a man knew that this was going to
happen or predicted it would, the only way I could accept that is if there were pre 70 AD
writings that we can prove as a matter of fact of other sources of other people who claimed that
that temple was going to fall, not after before that that temple was going to fall. If you can prove
to me that there were sources prior to this temple's destruction, then I could say maybe, and it's
still a huge maybe that they may have taken that source from them and said, hey, this guy said the
damn thing was going to fall. Let's add that to our messianic figure. There's no telling where
this information comes in. He's so comfortably accepts what's written there. That's his approach.
And I told Greg, my buddy, I said, look, that's the sad part. I think the historicist
approached the text just accepting what it's saying somewhat and have this faith in what
the authors are saying is actually historically accurate. And that's a that's too much faith in
the text, in my opinion. Oh, yeah, you have to make the text justify itself. That's a major
axiom of historical research. You don't just believe it until you have reason not to.
And that notion is sort of a vestige of the old scissors and paste chronicler
view that you weren't there. You don't have a time machine. So all your documentation is precious.
So you'd like to be able to have knowledge not to be ignorant of the past. And so you give the
benefit of the doubt until to any source and you harmonize them until you can't. And then you have
to say, well, okay, I guess this one is not like in I forget which is which. But in one of the
either first or second Maccabees, it says that Antiochus Epiphanes sacked Egypt. But in the other
one, it says that there was a line drawn in the sand and he decided not to go into Egypt. Well,
which one was it? Well, there you've kind of got to decide. But this is this wanting to give it the
benefit of the doubt is a problem. But what you mentioned bears on the whole Josephus thing.
Because Josephus, though he is writing 30 to 40 years after the fall of Jerusalem,
he records that whether it's true or not, who knows, but he tells about a prophet
deemed sort of a madman who just walked around the city before the fall of it in the siege.
His name was Jesus. Jesus been Ananias. And he was saying that the woe to the city,
woe to the temple, etc. And people tried to shut him up and they even brought him to the Roman
procurator and said, can't you do something about this guy? And so he questioned him and he would
say nothing in his own defense, which may sound sort of familiar. And then the procurator says to
him, where are you from? Which is just what Jesus is asked. And he says nothing. So they
flog him and then let him go. But he continues as before. And some years later, when the Roman
siege is underway, he's preaching from the top of the city wall that your doom is upon you. He says,
woe to the city, woe to the temple, and woe unto me. And he's killed by a catapult. And this is,
I mean, if that's correct, that is an earlier version, but it almost doesn't matter. It cuts,
the sword cuts both ways. It implies as my Jesus seminar colleague whose name I'm going to blank
out on because I'm senile. It's the guy that wrote Mark traditions in a Theodore J. Whedon.
He wrote this astonishing book, The Two Jesuses, where he takes up a suggestion of mine,
actually, that the passion narrative was borrowed from this in Josephus. And he does a much better
job than I did and points out loads of parallels that I had even missed. Well, it implies that the
whole nucleus of the passion narrative is taken from Josephus. And so it's undone. Well, also,
you had Jeremiah in the Old Testament, who was thrown down a well for saying that the
Babylonians are on their way and God is not going to save you. The temple, the city will be
destroying this in you, a traitor, and they threw him down this well. And so who knows what the stuff
is based on. And, but that is another important thing where Josephus is involved, though, in a
different way. Let me ask you this on that real quick before I lose my trek of thought. If Josephus
is recording this Jesus character that may have taken years prior, I don't know if he specifies
in his writings, but regardless, if this is the Jesus, and it looks like it's definitely being
borrowed from, could there be, and there's a couple ways to look at this, but could it be that
it's obvious that, like you said, it's a double-edged sword, because if this is him,
how is he under the Roman procuator in the 30s, Pontius Pilate? And if he's all the way back in
the 30s, doing supposedly this, that he's flogged according to the Gospels, how is he at 60-something
AD doing the same thing during the war on the top of the temple? If this is the Jesus, that seems
a little weird. Can it actually be both? And then another thing is, it's apparently obvious that
you can't deny the parallels to Joseph, okay? This copying back, could Josephus be copying Joseph?
This is where we start to get into something else, too. Well, because of his name, perhaps,
because like Joseph becomes the grand vizier of the Egyptian pharaoh, Josephus becomes a
counselor to the Roman emperor because of something he said that involved prediction. You may not
know this, Your Majesty, but you're predicted in the book of Numbers. You're the Messiah of Israel,
and then Johannin Ben-Sekai says the same thing. I mean, totally opposite from Josephus. He's no
collaborator and so on. But you have to wonder where, if you toss the coin and it's rolling around,
where's it going to rest? What's the prototype? Is it Joseph? Is it Josephus? He may have done
the same sort of thing, or he may have placed himself into the narrative as Joseph of Arimathea,
which is almost the same name, Joseph Bar Mathias. And that would fit the business about
three men crucified, one survives because there's the story in Josephus's autobiography that once
he was in good with Titus, he happened to notice among the many Jewish rebels crucified that there
were three people he knew, and he went to Titus and said, I know these guys. Could I have a special
dispensation? You rescue them because people were sometimes rescued from the cross. And so he says,
yes, sure, why not? And he directs somebody or other to take them down. Two of them are too far
gone and they expire. One of them is in better health and lives. Well, you wonder why in the
Gospel, Jesus is crucified with these two others. And he is crucified as a criminal too. But Joseph
of Arimathea asks for only one of the bodies, that is, of Jesus. Is that supposed to be the
same sort of thing? Joseph of Arimathea is Joseph Bar Mathias. And instead of saving only one,
well, he doesn't know he's doing that, but he takes him down and he comes back to life. I also
think there was an earlier version of the Gospel story in which Jesus didn't die, but was thought
to have died and was rescued in time early from the cross. Well, I'm not saying that's what I think
happened. I'm just saying that was another version of the story that survives in various hints even
now. Well, we need to check those out sometime. And so the whole, that whole part of it might reflect
Josephus' own experience and would sort of give a kind of solution to the puzzle in the
Gospels. Why is he only interested in Jesus? Josephus wasn't but only one of them lived.
So that's Joseph and also the thing when he's a whiz kid and he's 12 or 13 years old and in the
temple confounding all of the big wigs. I always wondered about this thing. What the heck does it
mean not to see the kid and its mother's milk? Oh, I'll tell you that. Has a guy, it means this.
That pops up again in the Gospel of Luke, also a second century work. And the references to
Theodos and Judas of Galilee, which scholars tend to recognize now as they once did that comes
from Josephus. It looks like Josephus is basing, either others are basing Gospel stories on
writings of Josephus, or if he himself did this, is he doing what still another Joseph, Joseph Smith,
just by accident, did in the Book of Mormon, where he said he has some prophets say that there'll be
a great prophet who will eventually come and he'll have the same name as Joseph, Jacob's son. And
so and so will reveal a set of brass tablets, but most people won't listen to him, but some will.
And he's like inserting himself into the story by saying, you know, this sounds a lot like
Joseph Smith, our prophet. Oh, yeah, what a surprise. And then, oh, the other thing here
that's a key piece of this, whatever it turns out to be, is that Joseph is already a Hebrew retelling
of the story of Osiris. He is betrayed by his brother, set, and because Osiris is the God of
grain and set as the God of the desert. And so he conspires to kill him and take his place,
because the seasons replacing one another in sequence. And so he, at a party or a supper,
has, he sets up this, this beautiful sarcophagus, and where'd this come from?
I bet any of you would like to be buried in this in style. I know I would tell you what, we'll
just give it as the door prize to anybody who best fits it. Let's try. I form a line over there,
and they do, but it's like the glass slipper with Cinderella. None of them fit except for Joseph,
the last one to try it. And of course, it was for his measurements. They sets goons, run over,
and nail the thing shut, and then send it drifting on the river. Osiris and Nephis, sisters of each
other, and of Osiris, also brides of his, they seek out the body. I guess they think he might still
be alive, let's see. And they do eventually find it. But, and then it gets their different versions
of this. But when they do, they've said, again, I guess, chops the body into pieces. And, but
Isis anoints them with some kind of magical oil, and rejoins the pieces kind of like Frankenstein.
And, and this raises him from the dead. Well, that's kind of like, well, let's just say, henceforth,
he impregnates Isis on the spot, and then goes off to sit in judgment in the nether world,
which was their heaven, it was just down instead of up a mentee, he judges the dead. And, and then
he has begotten Horus, the sun falcon, who takes vengeance on set. And Horus is like Benjamin.
He's the replacement for the favorite son, continuing on earth. And while, while Osiris
reigns as, as almost a king as, as Joseph does. And so there are clear parallels to this. In fact,
the chopping up the dismemberment of his body is reflected in the story of Joseph with the,
the multicolored coat or tunic or whatever it is. When they rip it up, I at least always imagine
it's made of different colored strips of cloth sewn together, and that they just ripped it at the
seams and said, here's all that's left of Joe. And that that's equivalent of the dismembering of
Osiris. And so there's, there's those parallels. And then finally, there are parallels between
Osiris and Jesus. And of course, everybody knew about Osiris in New Testament times,
the cult of Iris and or, I'm sorry, Isis and, or Isis and Osiris, or Serapis, who was a kind
of a tinkered version of Osiris. Their religion spread from Hellenistic Egypt all over the
Mediterranean. It was a huge religion. Anybody would have known about this. And of course,
he was a dying and rising God. And he had a sacrament of bread and beer or bread and wine,
because he was the God of the grape and the, and the grain. And he's betrayed by his, his
brother and like with Jesus, it's only one and so on and so on. So it's hard to trace the lines of
dependence, but it almost doesn't matter. There was more going on. And we know, and if we know
that this much was going on, you can kind of assume that that they are connected one way or
another. Like they didn't go from Plutarch's account of Isis and Osiris and only that to Jesus.
There were various versions of it. The women seeking Osiris's body. And it's just like Mary
Magdalene and the others seeking the body of Jesus. And what are they going to do when they
find it? Anoint it. Well, we know why. If we think this is based on Osiris, they want to raise
him from the dead. And they do, but that's been changed over to chapter 14, the Bethany anointing.
And so it just seems to me there are too many parallels and coincidences.
Well, look at a couple here.
Any of these things are historical. Here's a couple interesting things. Like you talk about
with Osiris. Osiris, of course, he was cut into 14 pieces. You know, there's plenty of seven and
two sets of sevens over and over numerologically with Joseph and the dreams and even prior to
going to prison or down in the dungeon and being sold. And then, of course, after later on with
Pharaoh's dream, there's two sets of seven. And I've heard it said, oh, don't try to say,
you know, a lot of historians have heard, don't try and say that Jesus is like Osiris, the dying
rise and God parallel. Well, if he's a copy or definitely a rewrite of an Old Testament version
that obviously is, why wouldn't he be? And if we could find sets of numerological connections,
some type of where it looks similar in terms of the story, if there's some type of patterns there,
that's stuff I look for. And Jesus, his own genealogy is three sets of 14. So there's 14
that plays in one of the Gospels. I mean, of course, not all of them.
Yeah, it's Matthew.
But it tells me there's this connection to the Old Testament. And if you take a connection to the
Old Testament, and that has a connection of some type borrowing, then it's fair to say that the
authors were aware of that as well. I suspect they weren't ignorant in not knowing that the other
myths around them had. Oh, yeah, it can't be. Because if you start saying that, oh, it's a sheer
coincidence, nobody feels like they can do that. So that's why they resort to the
satanic counterfeit nonsense, or this archetypal yearning for the real Messiah, because they just
can't say, oh, there's this connection here. They just have to do this ad hoc hypothesis.
So I've got to do more thinking on this, but there's got to be something to it.
By the way, are you sure that Joseph in Genesis shows his circumcised penis to identify himself?
Yes.
What is that in chapter 40?
Joseph reveals his circumcision to brothers, Bible verse. All right, Genesis 45 verse 3.
Let's look at Genesis 45.
And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph as my father is still alive, but his brothers could
not answer him for they were dismayed at his presence. Hold on. Let me look at the verses
prior and after that, because I recall him revealing because he had to show him his
circumcision so they knew it was him. Joseph could no longer control himself. Remember,
when he was crying, he was walking in the back. He cried out, have everyone leave me my presence?
There was no one with Joseph when he made himself known to his brothers. He wept so loudly that the
Egyptians heard him and the Pharaoh's household heard about it. Joseph said to his brothers,
I am Joseph. Is my father still living? But his brothers were not able to answer him because
they were terrified at his presence. Then Joseph said to his brothers, come close to me.
When they had done so, he said, I am your brother Joseph, the one you sold into Egypt and now
do not be distressed and do not be angry with yourselves for selling me here because it was
to save lives that God sent me ahead of you. For two years now, there has been famine in the land
and for the next five years, there will be no plowing and reaping, but God sent me ahead
of you to preserve for you a remnant on the earth. Once again, one of the same
ideas and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So then it was not you who sent me here,
but God, he made me father to Pharaoh, lord of his entire household, ruler of all Egypt. Now,
hurry back to my father and say to him, this is what your son Joseph says. God has made me lord of
all Egypt. Let me see where it's at here. Goshen near me. Okay, famine. You can see for yourselves
and so can my brother Benjamin, that it is really I am speaking to you. Tell my father about the honor.
Could have swore it talked about circumcision here. I mean, that would make sense.
Yeah. Tell your brothers, load the animals. Okay.
I'm trying to find, let me Google that again. It did Joseph.
Did Joseph show his circumcision to his brothers?
All right. Okay.
Rabbi Yehuda says he approached to wage war. Okay, nope. That's that's some other crap.
So when Jacob saw that there was grain, and this is in Genesis 42,
let's see, before them to their faces, Joseph saw his brothers and recognize them, but he acted
as a stranger to them and spoke roughly to them. All right. Where do you come from? They said from
the land of Canaan to buy food. So Joseph recognizes brother, but they did not recognize him.
All right. Then Joseph remembered the dreams, which he had dreamed about them talking about the
bowing down. Let's see. Yeah. This looks like Genesis 42. I want to see where he reveals
himself to them. It's in here somewhere. I'm telling you, Dr. Bob. Yeah, I'd love to.
I remember, and maybe we don't have time on this program, but he definitely reveals himself to his
brothers. I need to find it clearly saying that obviously circumcision because that was the mark,
obviously, that they knew. And I don't know if he says he revealed the mark or something like that
rather than saying his circumcision, but it was a clear indication. I remember reading this through
where they knew it was him for certain. And how the heck did they know that?
Well, could that rabbinic thing they mentioned there be a speculation by some scribe saying,
well, how did he reveal himself? And I don't recall reading anything about from rabbinic
tradition or anything like I, I'm not well read like that. This is like for me reading,
reading this text pretty much stuck to the Bible as a fundamentalist for many years.
I will have to find it though. It was to me, it was evident that the only way he could prove he
was a Hebrew was his circumcision to them because they weren't going to buy that this Egyptian guy
was, you know, according to the tale, they weren't going to accept that. Like, how do we know you're
Joseph? You're dead. There's no way. And I could have swore he reveals himself in this story somewhere.
I just have to find out where, you know, well, he does reveal his identity in some kind of convincing
way. Well, I suppose no one would have known about this. Who the heck Joseph was, but Joseph.
See, yeah, I'm going to do some hunting here too, because it's there. There's a similar thing in
Exodus where Moses is kind of depicted as another Joseph, because he's a persecuted
Israelite who winds up being in the royal house, albeit by a different strategy.
And there's this thing about how Pharaoh's daughter knows that the baby in the picnic basket there
is a, she says this is one of the Hebrew, yeah, this in Exodus two, five, and six.
Now the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river and her maidens walked beside the
river. She saw the basket among the reeds and sent her maid to fetch it. When she opened it,
she saw the child and lo, the babe was crying. She took pity on him and said this is one of the
Hebrew's children. And so, well, how would she have known that? In the movie, The Ten Commandments,
they implied that I think that it was because of the cloth that he was wrapped in. But I always
assumed it was that he was circumcised, that she would have seen that immediately and said, oh,
the kid's Jewish. Right. But so it may have been the same thing. It might be implicit in that.
And I wonder if some rabbi pointed that out and just because often their midrash on the text was
to expand it by trying to figure out what's implicit in it. Something must have caused this. What was
it? Yeah, because there's right here a website stackexchange.com where the guy says, how did
Yoseph, of course, they spell him Yoseph, how did Yoseph showing his circumcision prove anything?
So this he's using Rashi to 45 verse 4. Okay, well, I bet you it's there. He says, says that when
Yoseph told his brothers to approach him, it was to show them his circumcision, presumably to prove
he was Jewish. But how would that prove anything? All of Egypt had been circumcised already, as
Rashi says on 41 verse 55, if his showing his circumcision wasn't to prove he was Jewish, why
did he do it? And then, of course, they go into an explanation because I do know that the Egyptians
used to circumcise as well. Yeah, a Hebrew thing. But from what I from what I recall, and I could
be mistaken here, I mean, but if you're watching this and you have insight, comment down below
on where you know that Joseph, and it may not even be implicit in here, but it might be somewhere
within the story of Joseph, where he reveals the circumcision. Because I think that is a revelation
he reveals to people who didn't think it was probably him, the same way that Thomas did not
necessarily believe Jesus. And it's the same thing. So when you see the same stuff like that,
I think, and this is just a rule of thumb, agree or disagree, Dr. Bob, once you see something like
that repeat itself or look so similar, really need to question its authenticity historically.
You need to say, okay, did really a guy named Thomas experience something like that? Well,
Bart Ehrman seems to take an approach that goes, yes, like this is, and I might be throwing too
much in, but it seems to me, he would say, yes, there was a room full of disciples,
including a guy named Thomas who really believed that they actually saw the risen Lord and actually
felt an eight with an actual guy, but it was all trippy in their mind. To me, it's more plausible,
even though yes, people trip out today and yes, people see things, but 12 guys seeing a dancing
pink elephant to me seems unlikely. It would be my assumption, this is legend and written after,
and I would start with a literary approach different than the approach he's taking on the text.
And that is the approach I think mythicists do different. And I'm not talking about all
mythicists, even though I think most do, I'm talking about the scholarly approach of mythicism
even, okay? You guys take a different approach. You see all the webbings in the background,
and you see a huge red flag, and you start with, let's see what's, what's after testing and seeing
these things, what really stands the test at the end? They start with, yep, there was a guy named
Joseph, yep, there was a guy named Jesus, yes, he was crucified, yes, he rose from the dead,
but they're all tripping, let's try and think naturally here. Most likely they were just having
cognitive dissonance, and they all just wanted to believe in a messiah. I think there's more of a
literary approach, but I could be wrong, I'm just throwing it out there. Well, I think another way
of saying that, and it's a good insight, is that you got to apply Occam's razor. The idea that one
text has influenced another, that B is a rewrite of A, and that adequately explains what's in B.
That seems to be pretty simple and not implausible, but if you throw in, well, there was a real person
here, and his story has been embellished somewhat. That's really a fifth wheel. That's a superfluous
pseudo-explanation, and you see this, I think in Bart's work, like in Did Jesus Exist, he says that
if you take away, he says naturally the Christian events might have been retold in terms of the
Old Testament. Details might have been borrowed, and so on, when there was a broader similarity,
but not one that demands a literary origin, it may have been embellished. Well, my response was,
take away all the parallels, and bracket them off as embellishments. What the heck is left?
Like Jesus raising the son of the widow of Nain, it's just like Elijah raising the son of the
widow of Zarephaph, and so on. I mean, look at the parallels there. If you take those away,
you've got no story. And that's actually what you did in your debate. What you did in your
debate, if anybody goes back and watches it, I think it's worthy of another view. I'm going to
watch it again myself sometime soon. I learned something new every time I watch it, but you
did the same thing in your debate. You mentioned, you know, once you strip away these things, Dr.
Bob, it's like, tell me what is going to be valuable enough to mention. You make that point.
You're like, okay, so these pigs come running down the hill into the water. Where's the value
in that? Like tell me why this is even, if this is embellished, this is legend, remove it, what's
left? Pigs running down into the water? That might be legend too. So where do you draw the line,
and how do you know? That's the question. When historicity comes on the scene,
and they say matter of fact, we know for fact Jesus existed, at least say he may have.
Yeah. And he may have been this person, or it's plausible that he may have existed, and here's
why. Okay, knowing as matter of fact is a scary place in my opinion. I don't know. That's just my
opinion. I don't know. But anyway, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us here at Myth
Vision. Dr. Bob, once again, we've got to continue this. I would reveal who I really am to you right
now, but I'm afraid that that would be taken the wrong way. And you know, I'm just going to
say that fill my hands. All right, let's just stick with the New Testament version.
Yeah, hallelujah. Hallelujah. Praise God almighty. Well, do you have any closing words you'd like to
say before I close this out? Well, this just shows both the promise and the disappointment of biblical
studies. There's so many riches of possibility. It's like an over choice situation. And it's like,
oh man, all these things to consider. And yet, there are so many. It seems like there's no way
to do anything but speculate in the introduction to our forthcoming great book, Varieties of Jesus
Mythicism, which is really going to be terrific, because I've read all but one of the essays,
which have not received yet. It deals with the Roman Providence thing with Astro theology,
with dying and rising God myths. It's just great. I say in the introduction that we that
mythists often point out that mainstream scholars who believe there was a historical Jesus come
nowhere near agreeing on what he was like. Was he a proto feminist? Was he a revolutionist? Was
he a community organizer, a magician, a ha seed, etc. etc. I said, well, the prospect is no better
if you're a mythist, because here are all of these rival theories, which have some plausibility,
and we can never know. So in a way, it's not really in advance. You haven't just cleared out,
you haven't cleared the ground for the the one prize winner. There's there's no way to tell
we're just as bound to undecidable speculation as any historicist is.
And that's fair. That's fair. I'm okay with that. That's why I'm a skeptic. I just remain
a skeptic. I do mental gymnastics and just remain flexible wherever the evidence goes.
Sometimes I feel like I am a historicist, Dr. Bob. I really do sometimes. And then other times
I have to, you know, check myself ago. Hold on. Do you know what that means to all this other stuff?
So how, you know, I can't reconcile. So I appreciate you joining the show. Guys,
if you haven't seen the website to Dr. Bob's right here, okay, go check him out, give him a
PayPal, join us Patreon. He has articles that he posts there. He has plenty of books you can get
through there. Go to the Amazon through. If you go through the website, I think it helps. Don't
you guys have an affiliate? Yes. Okay, so go through the website to get those links to check
out his books. He's going to be back on the show unless he gets raptured. And I've kind of had this
angel of the Lord whispering that to me lately. And I wasn't supposed to tell you guys, but because
you're part of the inner circle, I'll let you know, but I can't tell you. And I appreciate
you joining and all the love that you give to us here at MythVision. I appreciate it. Love you,
Derek Lambert. Thanks, Dr. Bob. Oh, thank you. And now I'm going to go have dinner.
