Dennis, we've been kicking butt and taking names over here. It's not even funny,
but I've got some questions from Patreon members. One of them is Russell Koiber.
Thank you, Russell, for supporting MythVision. And if you're watching this and you haven't
joined yet, you're missing out. Seriously. The question is, do the parallels with Odysseus
suggest that the writer of Mark intended his work to be seen as a fictional retelling of Jesus'
ministry? Yes, I do think, Russell, that that's fair to say. But I also think that our understanding
of fiction is different from the ancient understanding of fiction, at least in part.
What the author is attempting to do is to create a character whose venerable and admirable
alternative to the deities and heroes of the Greeks. But he's doing so for a community
that has recently suffered greatly in the Jewish war. And in order to make Jesus an admirable
suffering hero, he finds Odysseus to be a positive model because he's going to, he returns home and
he ultimately is victorious. That's like Jesus being gone and returning in victory in the end,
which is already in the Q document. And you can see it in Paul as well. But also, Jesus is the
suffering martyr like Hector. But whereas Hector didn't rise from the dead, Jesus did. And so the
crafting of what we're calling fiction is really foundation mythologies for communities that this
case has suffered severely. And it's not unusual for groups that have suffered to craft stories that
help them understand their struggle. So these mythologies have important social functions.
What I call social identity criticism is a way of understanding the function of these stories.
So to say that they're creating a fiction, they're mythologizing or fictionalizing a
historical character to become the hero or the prototypical leader of the in group to distinguish
themselves from an out group. And to do so, they imitate, but they also challenge
the mythologies of those around them. So it's a kind of competitive mythologizing
that's related to new social identities and social struggle.
Continuing below that question, Dark Fire Reese, I hope I'm pronouncing that right, wrote,
you do know the people at the time viewed Homer's works as divinely inspired and inerrant, right?
That's where Christians appropriated their concept from. And the person Russell said,
I do now, thank you. Is there any way you could correct what was being said here to help understand
where maybe there's a complete difference on inerrancy and infallibility or the idea that
they saw this as inspired? Like where does this come from? Maybe you know, or did they see Homer's
works that way? Well, I don't think you can say that the Christian attitude toward their scriptures
is coming from the Greek world. It's coming from Judaism. And you have the parallel developments
of canonicity in the Septuagint, for example, in the collection of the Christian stories.
Now, let's go back to Homer, though. There's a difference in antiquity between Homer being inspired
and it being inerrant. Both Homeric poems and Hesiod's works and days invoke the muses.
And it's very much like evoking the Holy Spirit for inspiration. And so the poet becomes the conduit
or the spokesperson for the muse. And the muses are deities of sorts. And of course,
we get the word music and museum and all of that from it. So they are inspired. But the ancients
surely knew that they were not inerrant. In fact, one of the major projects of Greek intellectualism
is to say, okay, on the surface, we've got all kinds of problems. The gods are screwing the mortal
men and women. They engage in battle with each other. They, some of them actually are mortal and
can die like Heracles. They have to come back to life. And of course, that doesn't happen. So these
are understood then as allegories. Allegories either of the soul or the physical world,
or they get mythologized in some other way. But the reason that you have these alternative
hermeneutics is because they knew these texts, they wanted to think the texts were inspired.
But they also do that on the surface of them, they were not inerrant. They had problems and they
had to be, they had to be settled. There's a whole genre of literature in antiquity that's
very difficult to handle. And they're called the problemata, Homer, the problems of Homer or the
Homeric epics. And then you find in Ephstathias' commentaries, huge commentaries, abyssinting
commentaries of the Iliad and the Odyssey, the collection of these problems. And you would not
have this extensive literature on problems in Homer if they thought it was inerrant.
But they do think it's inspired. So they're attempting to, so the way the problemata work
is that there would be a lemma, or the plural lemata, of the text that is going to be interpreted,
much like some modern commentaries. And then you would identify what are the problems in that text,
and then what are various solutions that philologians, readers, philosophers, have given to them.
And so the idea of inerrancy actually is not even Jewish until a later date. That's mostly a
Christian phenomenon that comes out of certain understandings of revelation.
So your question is a very good one. It has a complex answer, I'm afraid to say. But it's
important on the positive side to say that many Greeks thought that Homer was a spokesperson
for the muses. And that he claims that the muses are speaking through him. And I'm a musician.
And I know that sometimes when I'm playing music, I feel that I'm inspired by something beyond me.
I don't know why my fingers are playing the banjo so well, because I'm not that good at it.
But all of a sudden, actually, I am pretty good at it. But one feels in the creation of music
and of poetry a transcendence. And the poet feels that transcendence, and he tributes his
art to the muses. Just as a musician would say, I don't know why I played so well,
but I did because I'm inspired to do so. That doesn't mean that my playing the banjo is flawless
or inerrant. It certainly isn't. And a part of the glories of live music is the mistakes people make
and laugh about them when they're playing. So I would just say that, yes, they are inspired,
no, they're not inerrant. And to understand the Christian understandings of inerrancy,
you have to stay pretty much in the Jewish or Christian world.
Ladies and gentlemen, be sure to sign up for Dr. Dennis R. McDonald's
Greek Mimesis in the New Testament course, Reading the Gospels with One Eye on Greek Poetry.
Dennis spends 18 lectures diving into several parallels, building up the methodology to show
you his methods and how he sees that the New Testament authors cleverly rewrite and really
make Jesus such a better figure than what we see in the older Greek myths and their poetry.
You can sign up today, own it for life. There are several hours, well over eight hours of
content in this course with 18 lectures. Dennis gives you so much to read and look up and consider
in investigating. Did the New Testament authors actually imitate the Greek epics
to write their narratives about Jesus? There's several reading recommendations,
additional resources. Under every single one of the lectures, you can download one through 18 on
mp3 in case you want to just download it and have it in your whatever the device might be in order
to work and listen at the same time. You don't have to just see it. But if you decide to watch
the content, it is all in 4K, extremely high quality content. As you can see.
You did it in from, we have a Greek lab. The audio is nice and loud, takes you through his
book. Dennis takes a deep dive. Be sure to sign up today. I hope you will. This helps Dennis
McDonald and it helps educate the world on what's going on in scholarship.
