Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups, help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to the show MythVision Podcast, your host Eric Lambert, ladies and gentlemen.
I have Samuel Zenner, that's Dr. Samuel Zenner, I ought to get hit for this, but he's a scholar
in ancient and modern history, language and literature guys.
He has a academia website, make sure you guys go check it out.
You can see all his articles.
He has books practically on his EDU website here or on the EDU link so you guys can go
and research and read all this material because he's done this for a long time.
And welcome to the show, my friend.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining again.
You are all the way on planet, what planet is that again?
Mars.
That's right next to Casablanca.
Yeah, I mean, you're really far, which is why I have to put an image up for our audience
because I'm actually viewing you right now.
The problem is we're trying to give them the best quality and make it simple.
And who knows, this visual, I might let ride.
We got to see how this looks because you're looking better today in terms of the quality
than you did last time.
But today, I figure we were going to talk about the temples, something going on with
Jesus that was pretty fishy, all right?
How did a Jewish guy like him run into this massive temple start flipping over money changer
tables?
I mean, does this sound like a real historical actual situation?
You say no.
And I'm interested to hear some of your thought pertaining to the temples, money changers
flipping over the tables and the whole nine and all the all that happens in the New Testament
and they characterize it as if this one guy went in there and ran everybody out.
Like, anyway, welcome to the channel.
Thank you for joining me again today.
And ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description and check out his materials.
So Samuel Zinner, I'm interested to hear what you have to say about this, brother.
So before we get to the temple, it's helpful to let's see, go back historically on the
presumption that at least some of the letters of Paul are authentic.
So what I'm referring to is 1 Corinthians 15, famous passage where Paul talks about
the various resurrection occurrences of Jesus.
After three days to two various disciples or apostles and the names of Peter and also
James, then he also says that Jesus appeared more than 500 brothers at once or at one time.
So there was a group appearance, according to Paul.
Now, of course, some scholars dispute this whole passage to say it's an interpolation.
Paul didn't write it.
Personally, I'm convinced Paul wrote it.
But the importance of that passage is that he ends up the list of all these resurrection
appearances with and then finally he appeared to me.
And so that suddenly now we realize that he's preparing us for what he's going to be writing
about concerning resurrection.
And the last part of 1 Corinthians 15, where he explains that resurrection is not a resurrection,
a somatic resurrection, that is resurrection of the body.
According to Paul, the resurrection, the body guys, but it's raised in the realm of
the Pneuma or the spirit, those are spiritual entity that is raised.
So that then shows us that Paul's understanding of these stories of the resurrection appearances
of Jesus, where these were not flesh and blood appearances, as we read in the Gospels in
Luke and John, for instance, they really go out of the way to stress that Jesus was in
his flesh and blood body when he appeared to the disciples.
But Paul doesn't have this idea.
This is a later idea.
Paul's idea is that the resurrected Jesus, like anyone else, he's going to be resurrected
or resurrected in bodies made of spirits.
So these are spiritual appearances, their visions, in other words, these appearances.
In Hebrew and Greek, the words for appearance, it's the same word that you use to talk about
a vision.
So these are visionary experiences, not flesh and blood appearances.
So now let's go back, according to the story, go back three days and a little bit further.
So the crucifixion.
But then before that, what's the lead up to the crucifixion, according to all of the
Gospels, but let's stick with the earliest of the Gospels, and that's Mark.
And that was the incident, the famous incident at the temple, where it said that Jesus turns
over the tables of the money changers.
All right.
Eric, let me ask you, do you know what is your idea?
What were these money changers doing there?
What was their job?
I mean, why were they there?
So from what I understand, yeah, so this is what I understand, and I'm always open to
learn and consider new ideas.
The money changers were there to exchange this foreign money so that they could have
kind of a kosher money, so to speak.
The idea is that they're getting these images and coins that are obviously graven and that
they cannot take into the temple, which is a holy place.
And they're supposed to exchange their money to get this kosher money that it has no images
that is Jewish, if you will.
And in the process, from what I was told, is these money changers were hitting people
over the head, and they were like, OK, giving them less than the value of the money that
they were giving in exchange for the money they were receiving in order to go and buy
some sacrifice for their family to have their sins covered or...
Wow, it sounds like someone invented a time machine.
That's the only way you could know stuff like that.
Yeah, that's exactly what I was told, though.
I'm just telling you what I've heard is that this exchange, almost like we have a foreign
exchange place where you can go and get your money, but the idea is that it's focused on
the temple.
So you have to go into the temple, and in order to do that, you've got to get all these...
Yes.
Yeah.
Yes, but what was the money for?
What was the money for?
Well, I mean, specifically, I was told that the money was there to purchase.
So now you're exchanging your money in order to go and purchase whatever it might be for
your... like a sacrifice through the temple or even to buy certain things.
There you go.
There you go.
Yes, it was to finance the temple sacrificial system, right?
To keep the sacrificial system going, which is demanded by the Torah, and this is, according
to the Torah, the system that got commanded in order to keep this annually, right, year
after year, to have the sins of Israel forgiven, right?
This is why... this is what it's all about.
The money changers were there to keep the sacrificial system operating, all right?
Right, so now we have a story.
I think I know you're going with this, too.
Well, we have a story in Mark.
He tells us that the Jesus, a Jew, comes into the temple and turns over these tables.
Now, look, despite what some Christian scholars and probably even some Jewish scholars these
days for anti-medical purposes, despite what a lot of Christian scholars want to believe,
this act, it's impossible that this can be interpreted as an act of, let's say,
prophetic Jewish reformation or denunciation of wickedness.
Now, this is a completely anti-Jewish act.
It's impossible to even imagine that a certain people would have done this because in doing
this, what it means is, right, in the mind of the person doing this, is a total rejection
of the sacrificial system of the temple, right, which has been commanded by God in the Torah.
So this is not a Jewish act.
It's not the act of a Jewish prophet.
It's not the act of a Jewish reformer.
It's not the act of a Jewish military messiah.
If I may ask this, I want to poke because I know you've heard this probably objection,
because you countless readings, one of the objections that I've heard people say is that
there were certain fringe sects of Judaism that rejected the temple and the leadership
and stuff.
And therefore, and they go to like references where he's like, I did not care for a sacrifice.
They use these kind of like, you know, specifics only here in their verses to kind of give this
idea that God is not pleased with your sacrifice.
It's about your inward.
It's about your heart.
It's like this idea that, you know, you're not really doing that.
You're just doing this just to do it.
You're not really in this whole Torah then, right?
Where it says God's eternal commandment is for these animal sacrifices and other types
of sacrifices with flour and what have you.
But no, yes, for instance, the Qumran sectarians rejected the current temple leadership.
They however did not end the temple in itself, nor did they condemn the sacrificial system
as such.
That's a misrepresentation if you want to go that far.
Thank you.
Joan Taylor, a fine scholar, has written one of the finest most recent books on the scenes
and she demonstrates in there that actually there's been a lot of exaggeration,
misinterpretation, even about Qumran as far as their rejection of the temple sacrifices.
But right, so not even Qumran would go so far as to say, well, the temple and the sacrifices
should just be destroyed.
Right.
Their idea was that in the future, God was going to take care of that wicked
current temple leadership, right?
And angels are going to come out of the sky.
There's going to be a big apocalyptic war and that's going to settle the issue.
Right.
So there was no rejection of the temple and the sacrificial system per se by any second
temple Jewish group.
So only condemnation of the current leadership, right, who are operating the temple.
So the way that that would be addressed is, right, you could have prophets or prophets like
characters or reformers, you know, condemning the sins or the wickedness of the current
high priests or priests or the leadership, but they wouldn't be preaching against the Torah and
saying, you know, contradicting the Torah and saying, well, then the system that God put in
place for the forgiveness of the nation of Israel, right, that's all bunk.
That's just, we, it's gone, right.
In any case, to overturn the tables is to completely reject the revelation in the Torah
and the eternal commandments in the Torah, right, that specify the annual operation
of the animal sacrifice system, right, in the temple.
That is why, and it is Rabbi Jacob Newsner points this out in a lot of his, the late
Rabbi Newsner points this out in many of his works, right, he either published or edited
over a thousand books, right, he was just, he was always busy, a tremendous scholar.
And he points out that, all right, so yeah, that act of overturning the tables is an act
of complete production of Judaism, that there's no other way to look at it.
And that's why the next part of the story is what, the Eucharist, the institution of the Eucharist.
Mark is implying there is that, yes, Jesus game
and the sacrificial system that God set up in the Torah, and he replaced it with the Eucharist,
the Christian Eucharist. And the earliest count of the Eucharist comes from where? First Corinthians 11
from Paul, and he gets it according, he says by revelation or by tradition, but, you know,
a lot of scholars agree that this is a vision that he has had, whether or not it's a vision,
but in any case, you can see what function it plays in the Gospel of Mark and in the
later Gospels. It's the reception of the animal sacrificial system of the temple
replaced by the Christian Eucharist. Dr. Zener, let me ask you this, so to put this in simple terms,
what we see, if you're looking into this, you're trying to wonder what is Christianity,
what is this Jesus guy, what is this whole believe in Jesus, and he is the sacrifice,
it is foreign to Judaism, number one, not saying it doesn't come out of the milieu or to some degree
using the milieu of Judaism, but it is foreign to Judaism, which means something interjected
from outside of Judaism into a version or form, kind of synchronizing Judaism into this new
mutt, if you will, of a system. It's got elements of Judaism, it comes out of it, but
it does something radically different by changing the whole heart of the sacrificial system and
letting a man, a man god, of course, fit the centerfold sacrifice of this system, which is
pagan, I mean if I can use the word pagan, but I mean what I'm saying is it's not Jewish, and
therefore that should lead someone to ask more questions at this point. The catalyst was the
destruction of the temple by the Romans in 70 of the common era, the year 70 of the common era,
and so this story of Jesus basically rejecting Judaism and the system that God has set in place
for the forgiveness and the sins of Israel with the Christian Eucharist, this is a meme that could
have been already a circulation before the Jewish war, which ended after 70,
but in Mark it's definitely post-70 of the common era, and what has happened is that now
this story is anti-Jewish, it's anti-temple, and why it's pro-Roman, that's what's behind all of this.
Now Josephus, who was a Jewish priest, writing about the Jewish war, after the fact,
in with the Roman victory over Israel in view, he has promotes the trope that well
God abandoned the Jews and now he's with the Romans, so you see the pressure that was exerted
on this victory of Rome over Judea in that war, to appease the Romans, not to upset them,
to say things that are positive, because it was a grand tragedy, a grand tragedy,
and the untold death, and so after 70, you're in a very volatile situation politically and
religiously. Dr. Zimmer, have you heard of Paul George in his book On Christian Origins,
where ultimately he believes that Christianity itself, what we know of is ultimately Christianity,
sprung up from the ashes of the 70, you know, destruction of the temple, if you will,
so technically, I mean, there were obviously earlier forms of Messianic Judaism and whatnot,
but what we see in Pauline and ultimately Christian Jesus'
this soteriology and Christology and the whole concept comes out of the ashes of the 70 war,
and I want to ask that, if you haven't read that book, that this kind of has these implications
because the temple's destroyed and now we need to replace this system with something that's
going to synchronize the culture of the Romans and these Messianists, but what are your thoughts?
Right, I think that the claim that everything arises after 70 C is an exaggeration,
because we know that there was an anticipation, even before the war, and this was the whole
concept in Alexandria, right, in Alexandria and Hellenistic Judaism,
faithful Jews, for instance, philo of Alexandria, but we do learn from him a vital fact that
what you see his teaching was that when you interpret the Torah, when you read, for instance,
about the commandments for circumcision or for animal sacrifices, there are two levels
of understanding to be deployed. One is the literal understanding, literal interpretation,
and the other is the allegorical, right, or symbol.
And philo insists, right, the literal is like the body, the allegorical is like the soul.
To be a living being, you need both the body and the soul, so you have to
circumcise your children, your sons, and you have to do the sacrifices, etc., etc.,
along with understanding the spiritual depths, right, of these physical.
But philo tells us that there were people, there were Jews, in his time,
learning the spiritual depths, right, spiritual interpretation,
allegorical interpretation of, let's say, circumcision and all the other commandments,
the misvote in the Torah, that they said, well, that's all you need.
So now we'll just leave all the physical stuff behind. We don't need to circumcise,
because after all, the real circumcision is the circumcision of the heart.
So they throw away the body and keep the soul, right, from philo's perspective. So these are
extremists, right, so these are extremist allegorists, right, and so this understanding
of the temple, which would allegorize it all the way, right, was already in existence even before
the first century of the common era. So there was a conceptual framework in place,
right, that was used, right, even before the First Jewish War, which broke out in,
if my memory serves me, it's like 67, the year 67 of the common era, right, and the
temple is destroyed in 70, but the war lingered on for a year or two after that, actually.
On the presumption, right, that, for instance, First Corinthians, Second Corinthians,
the letter to the Galatians are basically written by Paul. There may be some interpolations,
right, in all of those letters, but the bulk of them, I believe, are written by this historical
Paul in the, basically the 40s, right, when this mission was going on to the Gentiles,
and already then, right, there would be an impetus, right, and a reason why some of these
extremist, allegorist ideas, right, would be invoked, right, and of course, from a rabbinic
perspective, there's no problem with saying, all right, we're going to try to make monotheists
out of pagans, and for them to be all right with God, they don't need to be circumcised.
We thought that's fine, as long as they live by, you know, this handful of laws,
which are called the laws of Noah, the lochite laws, we read about them in Acts 15, you can also find
them basically the same in the Talmudic literature. So what was problematic from a Jewish perspective
was that not only was this argument being made, all right, Gentiles don't need to be circumcised,
right, but it was Paul's teaching that the law also was no longer binding on Jews,
including Jews in the Jesus movement, right, so this is where James, right, the brother of Jesus,
James, this is where the conflict between the Jerusalem Jesus group and Paul
arose, and this is what it's all about, right. So technically, Paul is this extreme allegorist,
and the other Jews are kind of like Philo, and they're saying, no, dude, you got it wrong,
okay, and Paul's going, no, you guys are stiff-necked, and you don't realize the stumbling block,
which is the law, and the bottom line is you have this outward, you have the letter,
okay, the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life, and this hits all this allegorical Philo,
really platonic, Hellenistic language. Right, and I know that's, you know, like the new schools
thought on Paul, right, would reject everything I'm saying, but there are, you know, very respected
scholars today who also, all right, would reject this new, most of the, not everything, but I would
say the basics of the new ways of thinking about Paul, and for instance, John Jay Collins, right,
very respected scholar internationally, in his recent book, it's called The Invention of Judaism,
right, from Deuteronomy to Paul. He has an entire chapter in there where he takes apart,
really, in a very forceful way, all of these basic, what I would call exaggerations,
and just misinterpretation, erroneous claims in the new school, in the, in the schools, right,
of this new way of thinking about Paul, which is now morphed into, of course, what's called the
Paul within Judaism, right, movement, or school of thought, right. Another very respected person
is a finished scholar who unfortunately passed away not too long ago, and that is
a take the retainer, right, his, his, his literature also is very forceful
in exposing the, the erroneous claims of a lot of these new Pauline scholars, right. We're both
Christian and some are Jewish, right. Dr. Center, I think I'm going to call John Jay Collins, Dr.
Collins, and actually get him back on the show to wrestle with Paul. I've got his actual cell
phone number, you know, and this gentleman is literally brilliant. I love the way he expounds
on these things, like just listening to him speak even. I mean, of course, when you read him,
you know what I'm talking about, but like just hearing him communicate it is you, I really value
that you brought his name up because he is something else when it comes to academic work,
he's just a monster when it comes to this stuff. And I love that. So maybe I can have a collaborative
method someday, but I definitely need to get him on and talk about this particular area. I know
that you'd enjoy that episode for sure. So this is interesting. I just want to say this, I'm not
expanding. I'm not even asking questions. I just want to point out that I hear all sorts of ideas
and this isn't one that hasn't, this isn't one that's been discussed this way. Nobody on the show
has even mentioned this idea of these extreme algorithms in the way that you've described them
and pointing out the, I guess I've heard this, but said completely different and didn't know to
think of it like the way you're presenting this, the perception you're giving is a strange new
way for me because I'm not familiar with this kind of perception. I came from the Christian
worldview, right? So like, it's difficult to see the way that you're presenting this, but
back to the temple because that's the topic and we can wrap the show up whenever you want in terms
of like talking about the temple and whatnot because we have more to cover in different areas.
But it's apparently clear to you. And I think others also think that this might play a huge
role. I know that Dennis McDonald, Dr. McDonald, I'm going to be bringing him on as well, says
that he thinks the motif of the cleansing of the temple and flipping of the money changers is
actually a Homeric motif that Odysseus actually coming home and kicking the the thiefs out of
his own home that we're trying to take his wife and whatnot and possibly kill his son.
He comes in and he pretends to be the beggar and they end up saying, well, who can string this bow
and sure enough, the beggar, which is actually Odysseus, strings it and takes all these guys
out that are in his house. It's not literally paralleled in any literal sense, but the motif,
he believes does play a significant role, which would be interesting because I asked on the show
and he wasn't sure. I said, is this historical? Does it mean it's completely fiction because
he borrows it from Homer or is there a historical relevance to this that a real guy went in and
tried to cleanse the temple? Or is this a foreshadowing kind of of kind of how Odysseus went
to war with Troy. Then he comes back later. Nobody expects him to come again. And he comes back for
the second time, the second coming and what's he do with the second coming? Right. He kicks
everyone's, you know what, out of the temple. And so I don't know if there's some type of
but it's a misnomer. But the terminology, the cleansing of the temple, this is a misnomer
because this is the Christian desire to present the act as an act by a faithful Jew
who wanted to clean things up and reform something that was wicked even from a Jewish
perspective. It's a misnomer. It's not a cleansing of the temple. It's a rejection
of the temple system as instituted by God in the Torah. It's as supercessionist as you can get.
Right. And then that's replaced with the Eucharist. Right. And so this is,
for me as a historian, the way I grapple with this, the way I interpret this,
is of course, I have to be humble. We can really never know what happened. Right. But as historians,
we can try to establish a scale of probabilities based on all of the different sources we have
as problematic as they all are, including Josephus. Right. Who is not an objective historian always.
Right. But if you look at it this way, all right. Now, so from Josephus, of course,
everything I've been saying can be contested by various sides. Right. But if you look at
Josephus, his story about James, the brother of Jesus, shows us something very important
for the history of so-called early Christianity. That is that James was, even though he was
executed, the fairest-minded, the most fairest-minded people and religious authorities at the time
condemned the execution. Right. So it was considered unjust. Right. My point is this,
that the mainstream of Judaism, right, had great respect for James the brother of Jesus,
who was the leader, right, of this Jesus group. So at that time, what does that tell you that
tells you that the group led by James at least, right, was considered a Jewish sector group,
just as Jewish as a Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Essenes. Right. And so what does that tell you?
Historically, it makes no sense that Jesus had rejected the sacrificial system and had replaced
it with the Eucharist, because if that story had been around, if that claim had been there,
there's no way that James would have, would not have been repudiated by the Jewish authorities.
Right. Especially all the way to the end of its life in the 60s. So this was not a Pauline group,
with Pauline theology, which would not have been tolerated. So certainly, James was not
preaching against the Torah. He was not preaching against the temple, and all the way into the
early 60s. And so for me, it then makes no sense that, well, Jesus, right, who was the founder of
this group, would not have had the same basic ideas that James was promoting.
So it makes no sense that Jesus would have been this apostate, basically. I mean,
if it do had done what he is said to have done, according to Mark, it would have been an apostate.
Right. And a group that continued, in his name, would not have been tolerated.
What would you say of him saying you were turning to the Jewish authorities?
You turned my father's house into a den of thieves. If I were to play devil's advocate and say,
well, no, Jesus wasn't against the temple or this. He was against these guys specifically.
How would you respond to the statement, you're turning my father's house into a den of thieves?
Like that he's acting like, which is a quotation. Right. Right. So quotation from the Tanakh.
Right. So yeah, sure, the prophets certainly would denounce. They did denounce, right,
unrighteousness, right, among temple leaders for instance. As you see, they never reject
right. The system. They denounce individuals, unrighteous deeds. Right. And we get hearts and
all this, but they don't repudiate the temple system that was set up by God in the Torah.
So this, this is the difference. It remains a difference. So what, what Mark is trying to do,
right, is he wants to avoid the appearance, right, that Jesus was it, there's a tension.
He wants to placate the Roman side. Right. And so, well, look, you know, this, our founder,
right, this, this basically Pauline movement, our founder, right, rejected the Judaism,
rejected simple, the temple system and replaced it with the Eucharist. But at the same time,
right, there's no way that, that Mark could deny that, well, actually, the Jesus movement, right,
it, right, come out of a Torah faithful temple, faithful, Jewish group led by Jesus, right,
who was faithful to Torah and to temple. And so, right, so there, in order to sort of placate
Jewish side, right. Now, how do you do that? Well, you know, you lift a few lines from the
Tanakh, right, like, to try to suggest that this cleansing was some kind of, from a Jewish
perspective, some kind of justifiable act. But the problem is, right, that from a Jewish perspective,
this is just anyone doing what he did, right, is simply repudiating Judaism. It's from another
universe, right. And this is a point that Rabbi Neuzer or Jacob Neuzer made in his books, that,
you know, despite what all these Christian scholars, you know, how they want to turn the
so-called cleansing of the temple into this prophetic reformation, I mean, if, I mean,
from a Jewish perspective, this is something that happens in a different universe. But it's,
it's, it is a complete rejection of the Torah. There's no two ways of getting around it.
So, Dr. Zenner, let me ask this in a way, because I mean, nobody has all the answers,
of course, but it's great to hear different opinions on this. And I'd like to get your thoughts.
Do you think, and I know that this doesn't necessarily work for all 27 New Testament
books that we have, and there's an evolution that's taking place even in the movement,
which is obvious here, but do you think this was written to try and let me, I'm going to use
some words here that are going to sound vulgar, like intense, but they're not trying to spit in
the Jews face, so to speak, maybe in some places. They're trying to convince Jews,
just asking this question, and maybe you could tell me if you don't agree with the question,
you don't think that that's the case. I'd like to know what you think is.
Do you think they're trying to convince Jews in the writings of the New Testament,
as well as a Gentile audience, that God's doing a new thing, and he's okay with the removing of
the old system and replacing it with a new system? Do you think they're trying to convince Jews of
this, or do you think this is purely a Gentile thing? Oh, well, it depends on each of the books,
but if you look at the letter to the Hebrews, there, at least in that case, it's obviously,
I mean, that letter, right, we could be called the letter against the Hebrews, right, because it's
attacking the beliefs of Hebrew or Jewish followers in Jesus. That's what that whole thing is about.
Right? And so the argument is, well, look, Jeremiah, I told us that time was coming when
God would drop a new covenant with Israel. And so new, well, that means that there's an old,
and if it's old, it's passing away and dying, and there's something new, right, which is
totally taking Jeremiah chapter 31 out of context. And, you know, the time of the new covenant,
according to Jeremiah 31, will be a time when human beings will no longer need to be taught about God.
They will just spontaneously know God, right? Now, the Christianity claims that Jesus brought
the new covenant, but this is preposterous. Now, Judaism has never made that claim. Judaism still
insists that now that era of the new covenant, when there will, you know, need for teachers,
there will be no teachers at all, religious teachers, but that's for the Messianic age
for the world to become, for the eschaton, right, as is called in Christian scholarship.
All right, so that time has not come, but that does bring up a point, right, that
what was the whole trope about these spiritual appearances of the resurrected Jesus about? It
was the fact from a Jewish perspective, when Jesus died on the cross, he had not fulfilled
all of the Messianic prophecies, which most of them are national, sort of militaristic even
prophecies, and then there's going to be international peace, et cetera, et cetera,
these were not fulfilled. So the idea was that, well, Jesus is still alive in spirit,
not in body, but in spirit, he's still alive, so his work is not finished, right? So for the
James group, the, you know, Jewish Christians, so to speak, their argument would have been,
yes, he is alive, and so he still has the opportunity to fulfill those prophecies,
and until he does, we can't name, we can't call him the Messiah, right, except in some what's
called a proleptic sense, an anticipatory sense that's not being taken literally, right? Now,
the only way you can get to saying that, well, he is the Messiah is if you believe that he's
fulfilled all the prophecies, and the only way you can do that is by turning the Old Testament
prophecies, the Tanakh prophecies, into spiritual allegories. Okay, it's not about international
peace, it's about peace, right, between brothers and sisters, right, in the Lord or whatever,
right? The prophecies about peace between animals and humans, well, that's the animal nature of
humans will be conquered by the righteous interior spirit, all these types of ideas, right, and then
you can say, well, he's the Christ, he's fulfilled these prophecies, the problem is, if you read the
Bosporus and Acts, you will see that even during the resurrection appearances, Jesus is right,
his disciples are confused, they say, well, aren't you bringing in the messianic government,
I'm paraphrasing, of course, right, but what that shows you is that apparently,
for the whole year that they had known Jesus and his teaching and running around the Judean
Galilean countryside with him, he had been saying nothing that contradicts the traditional
Jewish picture of Messiah, of a messianic military leader, right, so why would they
give the same thing, right, about the mission of the Gentiles, right, in the Gospels,
right, I mean, in the Book of Acts, when some of the disciples of Jesus began to
missionize among Gentiles, this is very controversial, they said, well, hey,
you know, basically, the picture is, well, Jesus never said anything about this, right,
so when you go to the Gospels and there are sayings in there that Jesus purportedly talks about
a mission to the Gentiles, these cannot be historical, it's likely to be taken in a theological
sense, they can't even have good ethics and morals about them, but Jesus would have historically
would have presented himself, well, probably not presented himself, but he would have talked about
the coming Messiah in traditional terms as a military leader. Now, the Gospels, what the Gospels
have to do, sir, go ahead. You blew my brain a while back and I have to just say this,
look, whenever you drop a bomb on me, like, I have to repeat it for my audience to catch that,
to digest that, because like, this is the common knowledge to you and this is not for me necessarily,
even though I've heard a lot of this, what you did for me, because I'm like, all about the death
and resurrection of Jesus and stuff like that, and like, you have two schools of thought that I
typically deal with, mythicists, and you have historicists, and the historicists will say usually,
cognitive dissonance, and this cognitive, usually the way they approach it, though, is if you lose
a loved one, you just can't let them go, therefore, because they're a loved one, you kind of experience
them after they die and this kind of stuff, that might be partially true, if historicism is true,
here's the thing, what I like about what you said is it's deeper than just a loved one,
it's a religious, and this might explain why there's so much Christology, like developed Christology
right there at the beginning, and it didn't take forever for this Christology to build up, because
I asked myself, like, big headscratcher to me is like, how does 15 years after the guy supposedly
died, and they say Rose again, how do you have this so well-developed, systematic Christology
with all this stuff formulated around this one guy, how can you do that unless this is this
religion, the religious and eschatological motif, this apocalyptic motif, that they expected the Messiah
to do these things, they really believed he was the Messiah, the cognitive dissonance is playing a
role, they can't let go of that, and therefore when he died, they know that he's the Messiah,
because they believe him, like anyone who believes in a particular cult leader or something,
and therefore even when he died, they're like, nope, this is what's supposed to happen, he's
still doing it, it's just in a spiritual realm, and that's where Hellenism plays a huge role,
because people don't realize how, I don't think a lot of people that I know that I communicate
with recognize how much Hellenism plays a role, but anyway, I like what you did there.
Right, and that's like in the Jewish world, and what that does in the mind of the Jewish people
compared to what you would see in Tanakhs, in the Tanakh, you really cannot grasp why they
allegorized or spiritualized to that level of things, so then technically anyone could say
anything was fulfilled even if it wasn't, that's when we start getting into all that stuff.
You see what's operative, right, when you get to the gospel of Matthew, he'll quote Tanakh
prophecies and say that, you know, Isaiah 53 says that he has healed us by his stripes,
and Matthew says, well, this was fulfilled when Jesus was going around Judea or Galilee,
healing people, right, or Isaiah 7, right, the young woman will conceive and have a son,
right, this was fulfilled in the story of Jesus' birth, right, but Matthew really knows that,
right, from a Jewish perspective,
you can't, these are not literal fulfillments of passages from the Tanakh, and this is why
he has, Matthew has Jesus say, I thank you Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have not
revealed these things to the learned and the wise, but to the babes, but to the infants,
right, did you catch that? So what's going on there is that, right, if, if you usage you,
cannot see that Isaiah was talking about Jesus' birth in Isaiah 7, well, you're one of those
learned and wise guys, right, arrogant in your own conceit, right, but because you can't see what
it's allegorically pointing to, on a hidden esoteric level, what it's all about. So Matthew is sort of
conceding that, yeah, these prophecies are not, we're not literally fulfilled by Jesus, they're
only fulfilled in a sort of like a symbolic typological sense, that only the spiritual infant
can recognize, if you use your God given mind, you won't be able to see it, right,
so he, this is very Pauline, by the way. I need to ask you something about that,
there's a debate going on that happens between Rabbi Tovia Singer, who is a Orthodox Jew,
and Michael Brown, who's a Christian Apologist, and this debate right now that I heard, and there's
a little clip, did Paul quote a phantom scripture in 1 Corinthians 15? Now I know we're kind of
getting off the temple's destruction, but it's in the vein of the idea of resurrection and the
replacement of the temple. No, it's related. And he says, in 1 Corinthians 15, Dr. Brown responds
to Rabbi Tovia Singer, and the apologetic argument by Dr. Brown is, he believes that there wasn't
neat, there was no lost scripture or lost text of some sort, but that the, he's referencing these kind
of, these parable type Hosea 6, you know, on the third day concepts, Jonah and the Belly of the Well
on the third day. I will revive you on the third day. Right, and so technically, the idea is that
what Rabbi Tovia Singer is saying is that there's got to be a missing text here, because in Mark 9,
he says, and yet how is it written of the Son of Man that he will suffer many things and be treated
with contempt? The idea is that, like in Matthew 17, it says, but I say to you that Elijah already
came and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they wished. So also the Son of Man
is going to suffer at their hands. In Matthew, though, it doesn't say it is written. In Mark, it
says it's written, it's written of him. And then Luke says, thus it is written that the Christ would
suffer and rise again from the dead the third day. And the repentance of forgiveness of sins would be
claimed in his name to all the nations beginning from Jerusalem. So the question then becomes,
is there a missing text? And Rabbi Tovia Singer and other rabbis would say, yeah, there's obviously,
the argument is infallibility, inerrancy, like God didn't preserve this text. Where is this text
these Christians have that say explicitly it is written, thus it is written, that the Christ
would suffer and rise again from the dead the third day. Well, Michael Brown's apologetic is,
no, they don't understand the motif of scripture. And maybe he's right. I'm asking you that the idea
isn't not necessarily that he's correct in his views of Christianity whatnot. But the idea is that
these guys are allegorizing and creating doctrine out of these texts. But it does say it is written
he would suffer and rise. Do you think they're reading into those things and creating that?
Or do you think there was a text that the Messiah would suffer and rise somewhere that we just don't
have? No, I think I would disagree with both sides there. And sort of lean towards what you're
saying. When it's written, for instance, First Corinthians 15, right on the third day, this is
Hosea. But that's not what Hosea is literally talking about. And we know from early Christian
literature from the so-called New Testament, from the great apologists like Justin, once after him.
We know the very scriptures. And apparently at a very early time, these were actually gathered
together in what scholars call a testimonial, testimonial list, right? We know all these
scriptures. Early Christians collected from the Tanakh that they then allegorized,
right, and derived and based all of these claims on. So I don't think that they're referring to any
missing text, right? That like explicitly says, right, against Michael Brown. I would have to
insist that, well, this is not what the Tanakh is saying on a literal level. The only way you
can get that out of there, what the early Christians were claiming is to spiritualize the text,
allegorize the text, right? But see, this actually makes sense in view of the ultimate divide
between what became rabbinic Judaism and Christianity. And that is that the ultimate divide
involves the dyad, right? The contrast between the public and the private. Judaism
is founded on the public national revelation, right, according to the Torah, right? That God
appeared to 600,000 to the entire Jewish nation and said, right, these are my commandments,
this is how you live, and these are eternal, right? And everyone heard it. So you didn't have
Moses saying, well, you know, I went up to the mountain and God told me this. Now everyone heard
it. So it's a public revelation to 600,000 people. This is what Paul is trying to claim Christianity
as the first Corinthians 15 by giving the story of Jesus appeared to more than 500 brothers at once,
as if it's some kind of public, a new public revelation, because the only way that you could
see theoretically overturn the Torah, right, is by only God who
could do that, by coming down again, right, to some mountain, and at the whole nation of Israel
seeing it, winning it, right? However, that's also theoretically, right,
theological incompatible with the Torah, because when God did come down in the time of Moses,
he said that this is an eternal covenant, right, for as long as heaven and earth are here,
right, not until the second temple will be destroyed, but as long as heaven and earth are here,
right, this is an eternal covenant, right, with Israel. So, but let's see, Paul, the problem is that,
okay, let's say if Jesus did publicly appear to 500 people, for what? It has to be to the whole
nation, right, otherwise, from a Jewish perspective,
even if what the guy's saying and what the group's saying is true, we can't accept it,
because God told us otherwise, and only God could tell us to now go some other direction,
but he hasn't. So you say he's appeared, so he's appeared to 500 people at once, not enough,
he has to appear to the entire nation. That's why Luke has the story of the descent of the
spirit on the day of Pentecost, when all, when dudes and righteous people from all nations were
gathered together, right? So this is like, and in the story of Pentecost, according to Luke,
you'll see a lot of literary allusions to the story in the Torah about ascending on
Sinai with the flames and all of this, right? So they're trying to create the impression that
this Christianity is now a new revelation, just as public, publicly revealed as the Torah.
But, right, but you see this actually, you see, I think it was Joachim Yeramias,
the great New Testament scholar, points out in his, one of his books,
not too many catch this, but really what Paul is alluding to, right, when Jesus appeared to 500
people at once, it's probably the story of Pentecost, right? So it's just a spiritual appearance,
right? And there is a very obscure text, an Ethiopian text, I'm not sure if it's from late
antiquity or maybe it's medieval, but oh, but translated it back in 1899, it's called in English,
the contendings of the apostles. And in there, you have this bizarre story, 10 days after the
ascension, not 40, but 10 days after the ascension, the followers of Jesus offer up a sacrifice, James
is offering it up and the flames are there. And then that's when the Pentecost story happens.
And the text says that there were 700 people there, 200 from the nations and more than 500
Hebrews. So this is the more than 500, this is the same phrase in 1st Corinthians 15, more than 500.
So this is referring to not Paul, but Luke is basing his, I think his Pentecost story on 1st
Corinthians 15, the appearance of more than 500 brothers at once. This is the story of Pentecost,
but this is not a public revelation. The only people who saw anything were those who were
already in the movement, in the group. Anyway, this is great. That's what it comes down to.
So the Gospel of John, as Jesus saying, well, it's more blessed to believe than to see. So that's
a polemic going back to the whole Torah, which the whole nation of Israel saw and believed.
That's turned on his head by John. There's a lot of that. The fact that the new Christian claim,
the new revelation, is founded on a private revelation, not on a public revelation as the
Torah. So that's the ultimate divide between rabbinic Judaism and Christianity. There's a lot
of that in the New Testament. There's so much of the, you will ask for a sign, but no sign will
be given. You don't need one. These ideas of them needing some type of assurance. And I think that
polemic of saying, oh, you know, bless those who don't see the ideas, don't, you don't need it,
just believe. And I even think that keeps people in the faith, this trying to keep people from
leaving the faith. But Dr. Zinner, I think we covered this topic pretty good. Did you want
to go ahead and say some closing words for that? Yeah. Yeah, just a final point, right,
from an ecumenical stance, right? See, I don't mean to lambast Christianity. I don't mean to offend
anyone or disrespect their faith. But the fact is that in ecumenism, if you want it to be fruitful,
if you want to have a fruit pod with people in another religion, it has to be based on honesty.
It has to be based on recognition of the facts, right? And then mutual respect, right, for both
sides, right? All right. So what does that mean for someone like me? It's like, all right, it's
fine, right? Christians have this concept that the Tanakh was prophesying something that can only
be understood esoterically, symbolically, allegorically. All right, I respect that, right?
That's fine. That helps a lot of people live, right? And so in an honest dialogue, then, right,
that favor has to be returned from the other side, right? So it's like, they have to respect that
Jews just can't see that, right? And that's all right, right? And both religions are going to
continue for as long as this planet continues. And that's all right, right? But if we can learn
the art of mutual respect, well, maybe the planet eventually will be a little bit better place to
live. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Samuel Zinner. So thank you so much for joining me on
this episode. I know that we will explore more topics together. He has written extensively.
So I want you guys to grab ahold of some of his works in that academia.edu link down here in
the description. Is there a way to help you somehow? Do you have a way where people can help you in
some way, shape, or form with your research or what you do? Is there something like that available
for you, Dr. Zinner? I don't think so. Someone wants to support me through Western Union, right?
Because I'm not in the States, right? So, you know, people outside of the States, especially as
long as it's been possible on, you know, we can't donate, for instance, on YouTube to, you know,
just the financial structure is not a place to do that. We might need to get paid. So I want to
support my work. It would have to get a hold, it would have to contact me directly, right? And
I mean, it's a little inconvenient, but you know, I'm not, I don't live in America. And you have to
excuse how I speak because I don't speak English every day. So I mean, I know my, I understand my
grammar is not the best at all times, right? It's in many, many years since I spoke English on a
daily basis. But anyway, they would, if someone wants to help me support my research, they would
have to get a hold of me. They can find, they can do that through academia.edu. Or if you supply
other links, right, they'll see my email address. They would just have to get a hold of me.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've finished that topic. Let me know what you guys think about Jesus
turning over the money changers. Do you think Dr. Zinner's on the money? I think this was an
interesting topic. I really enjoyed all the other stuff involved in this because there's so much
to discover the fact that they had to have their Messiah fulfill all these things that he didn't
do during being alive. We got to keep them alive. But I mean, it's not like they did it in any
fraudulent way. I think they like really have a superstitious system and cognitive distance may
play a role if there was a guy named Jesus. Let me know what you guys think down in the comment
section, hit that like button, subscribe, share this thing out there, let everyone know about
MythVision. Because I mean, I don't even know if you guys remember we are MythVision, ladies and
gentlemen, MythVision.
