So, I read that and I asked myself, who are these 50 helpers of yoga mesh?
And because they sparkle in the sky, I thought, I wonder if there's stars.
And so, I just spent a couple months trying to track down who these 50 people were that
sparkle in the sky and I got nowhere.
No classicist was writing about them.
I couldn't find any astrophiology that related 50 stars in the sky.
Unless you read Robert Temple, who argues that aliens came from the star Sirius B, there's
no connection whatsoever to the number 50 and to the heavenly sphere that I could find.
And so, I thought, well, this is just a dead end, I'm going to move on.
As soon as I reached that conclusion, something strange happened.
I started to find these 50 helpers in every mythological tradition in the old world and
they always showed up in the same context.
So now, we have the Anana texts, Ananas in the Eastern Vitae, Ishtar, Anana.
She descends into the underworld where there are 50 guardians and judges in the underworld.
In order to pass through the underworld, she has to pass the 50 guardians.
So, there's 50 helpers of Gilgamesh that help them through the underworld.
With Anana, those helpers turn into guardians and judges, but the number 50 in the underworld
for rebirth, all the motifs are there.
And so, I said, okay, Gilgamesh and Anana, they share the same thing.
We would expect that because that's the same area, the same mythology, the same religion.
And then I was doing, you know, my reading of Apollodorus, where I came across this shocking
reference where he says, the earliest version of Cerberus, the guard of the underworld,
the dog with three heads, the three paths in the underworld.
The earliest version of Cerberus, Cerberus had 50 heads.
Now, suddenly, I stopped.
Cerberus is a different tradition, and it's being handed down from the Near Eastern tradition.
The Greeks get their guardian of the underworld by the Babylonians and the Acadians and the Samaritans.
So, Cerberus now has 50 heads as 50 guardians in the underworld.
They get reduced to three heads because of the three paths.
So now I'm thinking, who else can I find in the underworld in different mythological systems
that relate to the number 50?
Jason in the Argonauts.
Jason sails down into the underworld with 50 oresmen, right?
And this is where Orpheus leads the 50 oresmen with his heart.
So now we have a musical connection, by the way.
I'm going to get back to you.
All right, so now Anana, Cerberus, Gilgamesh, Jason.
There's an Irish deity who found Ireland by arriving on boat, or by 50 sailors,
and she performed some sort of ritual, and Ireland emerges out of the waters.
I thought that was interesting.
And then in the Old Testament, again, I just came across this by accident,
but when Elijah ascends into heaven, he's caught up by a chariot, right?
And he ascends into heaven, Elijah witnesses Elijah's ascent into heaven.
And suddenly, this group called Sons of the Prophets appear.
We don't know who they are.
We don't know where they came from.
We don't know where they went.
But what we do know is there's 50 of them, 50 sons of the prophets
who show up and witness Elijah's ascent into heaven.
So there is an Israelite biblical connection.
Wow.
So I found all of these, and I'm like, OK, I'm on to something now.
In each case, the 50 are guardians or helpers or witnesses,
and all the contexts are the same.
They're helping the person through the next world, through the heavenly world,
either the underworld, or in the biblical case, not through the underworld,
through Elijah's ascent into heaven.
But technically, when you understand that the purpose of the underworld descent
is to ascend into heaven, then you realize these are all connected, OK?
So then I had the question, who in the hell are these 50 people, right?
They sparkle in the sky.
I can't find any astronomical, anthropological connections.
And to be honest, I was stumped.
I was stumped for months.
I could not figure this out until I was reading my Sophocles.
Do you ever read your Sophocles?
Not this week.
I was reading my Sophocles, not this week.
I was reading Sophocles in Euripides, some of the early Greek playwrights.
And this is where the revelation happened.
I was reading some plays.
And by the way, in Euripides, Bacchai, it's a play, early Greek play,
Dionysus appears.
And he's the god of rebirth in this play.
And he teaches his initiates the holy dance of God to make them reborn into the next world.
The holy dance is part of the Bacchic Mysteries.
And they are, that is the dance which helps the initiate ascend into the next world, OK?
So that is an Orphic Bacchic Dionysian tradition.
It's in early Greek tradition.
And it turns out in the Dionysian chorus, there was a group of priests or priestesses
who actually would initiate a person into the next world.
And just guess how many people were in that chorus?
Let's see.
Could it be 50?
50.
So this is what got me going.
The earliest Greek plays, the earliest, let's see.
I can't remember if I put the incorrect, I didn't, I don't know, so.
Oh, here on the right is a picture of a Greek stage.
The earliest Greek arenas, Greek theater, the vast majority of the performance space
was not the stage.
Actually, the actor would stand on this little pedestal or sometimes a little stage
and they would say their lines.
The vast performance space was the orchestra.
It was where the chorus formed a circle around the altar
and they spoke their lines using song and dance.
They would dance around the altar chanting their lines.
So when you read these ancient Greek plays, all of the lines told by the chorus
are actually sung and danced around an altar.
Well, that's very strange and it's so bizarre, nobody knows what to do with it.
Well, guess what?
The earliest Greek dramatic choruses were 50 in number.
And so that was my jackpot.
That's when I realized, oh my God, the 50 helpers of Gilgamesh, the 50 judges of Inanna,
the 50 witnesses of Elijah, the sons of the prophets, the 50 heads of Cerberus are actually
a group of priest or priestesses performing an initiatory dance that helped the deceased
ascend into the heavens.
Why 50?
Why 50?
Why so many?
Why?
But so the earliest, I spent six months at the library trying to find out who had written
about the Greek chorus, because I wanted to know who had written about the origin of
the Greek chorus, 50 chorus.
No one has written about it, right?
No one knows, I guess.
I read theater history and art history and I read some classicists, no one, but no one
addressed it.
And no one, as far as I know, has linked it to all these 50 people who helped these mythological
heroes ascend into the next world.
Hey, John.
Hey, John.
Yeah.
Acts chapter 2 verse 1, and when the day of Pentecost, which means 50, had fully come,
only then were the heavens opened so that the Holy Spirit descended upon them with tongues
of fire.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I want to reach through the screen and hug you.
You know?
You know?
That's a great, that's a great, that's a great connection.
That really is.
I mean, I mean, wow.
Wow.
John.
I'll hug you too, Derek.
What?
What do you think?
That's right.
That's right.
Yeah.
Hug this bag.
I'm blown away.
You're right about now.
Derek, what do you think about that?
Honestly, this is a ... Hey, I'm telling you something.
No one else is parsed out.
Okay?
Yes.
So this is brand new stuff that yours truly is put together.
So ... Yeah.
And it's serious stuff.
It's serious stuff.
Wow.
Wow.
So as I do my research, it turns out there are several choruses that have 50 members.
Several temples were stewarded by either priest or priestesses with 50 members.
And so we ... I now understand that in the early temple traditions, so this is probably
true of the Israelites.
They would have 50 priests performing a dance in their temple court around the altar doing
their liturgical year with whatever they were doing.
So then I'm still with this number 50.
Why so many people in a court?
So I can't give you an exact answer, but I think I've got a really good theory as to
why that is the text.
Remember that Near Eastern text I said there are seven times seven lions dancing on a ship
leading the person into the next world?
Yeah.
Wasn't that the Neo-Assyrian?
No.
That was actually a ... That's actually a text that's earlier than that near a Neo-Assyrian
of plaque, and it's just a text that talks about going into the next world being led
by seven times seven lions who dance on this boat.
And there's my key.
This is why 50 people, seven octaves of seven notes is 49 notes completed on the 50th note.
You have a choral dance, and you divide the chorus into seven groups of seven with a choral
leader.
You now have a system where you can do all kinds of really interesting things.
So I think the 50 people correspond to seven octaves of seven notes.
Now you're chanting, you're dancing your liturgy.
You're chanting, you're singing, and you're dancing your liturgy.
You do this to music.
And so we don't know what music they use, but if you had seven refrains using seven different
notes and you put seven people on each note, you would get a chorus of 50 people repeating
a pattern.
Now what could you encode on that pattern?
Well, let's say you wanted to memorize which star rose on the horizon at a given day, right?
Let's say you put this group of seven in charge of that star, this group of seven in charge
of a different star, this group of seven in charge of a different star, and then you performed
a choral dance for each group to a different note, to a different octave, sung their song,
and they sung basically about the star or group of stars they were in charge of.
You could perform a choral dance and actually keep a calendar, right?
This group would say, you know, the star rises, you know, when this plant blooms or when the
tree blossoms or when the birds fly in or whatever they map it to on earth, or, you
know, some other pattern, but you could actually keep a calendar if you...
We know they did this, by the way.
We know that somehow these choral dances were all linked to the moving luminaries, because
that's the other piece that we have from ancient people saying the choral dances were linked
to the stars into the planets.
So we have that reference, the references are rather late, but they do exist and so somehow
these choral dances are linked to the stars and planets, but in the epic of Gilgamesh,
we know that the 50 sparkle in the sky.
So somehow they're being used as analogized with certain aspects of the star.
Well, I think that's because they probably picked 50 stars as 50 notes, which they sang
using 50 people in a choral dance, and they kept their calendar that way, but they also
kept their rituals that way.
So when all these people are ascending into the heavens in all these mythologies, Jason,
Pericles, Gilgamesh, Elijah, what they're really doing is repeating the stars that move across
the sky that are repeated in the choral dance, and this is how one ascends into the heavens.
Are you following me?
Are you following my line of logic?
It's damn genius.
Just say it.
Yeah, I mean, it is.
It's genius, John.
No, but not of this earth, not of this earth.
It shows how the oral people, being an ancient rooted tradition like this, they, this ties
into a program that me and Luther did before with a guy who did one on sacred geometry and
he deeply rooted back into these ancient orality civilizations.
And what they did is they did not separate their study of math.
They did not separate their music.
They did not separate their religion or whatever.
That's correct.
That's correct.
Everything was in sync.
So you're right.
That's correct.
That's far more weight than trying to divide this and say, oh, well, this is just a dance.
And then this, oh, no, that has nothing.
No, I think this is the jackpot because it only makes sense that everything freely flows
together in that kind of culture.
Whereas today, like you said, we can read a book, put it down, oh, I'm focused on the
cartoon.
Oh, put it down.
No, divide things in those times.
It was all one in the 50 days probably had 50 people, 50 song or 50 tones, whatever it
may be, whether it's certain tone to the instrument or if they played 50 songs or whatever, I'm
sure it all plays together.
And I love this.
This is beautiful.
You're right.
Remember, in oral cultures, the sky is the printing press.
It's all astrophiology because that's how the oral brain structures it.
This kind of complexity, though, I mean, it is a complexity, a chorus of 50 people that
is probably seven groups representing seven octaves all doing a chant and a dance in rhythm
with the music, but it's all cosmological.
And we know it is because all the hints are there.
It's associated with the other world, underworld, the eternal world that they sparkle in the
sky.
They're with the ascent into the heaven.
All of this is somehow connected to the sky.
Don't know how, but there's the whole 50 May of Near Eastern tradition, which I won't
get into, but my hypothesis is they actually did use 50 stars in the sky that was associated
with songs and dances.
They kept their calendar with it.
They kept their theology with it.
They kept their culture with it, and they would sing and dance.
But this belays a complexity of civilization that emerges with the city-states.
Now, what were they doing before the city-states?
I don't know, but I do know that the best explanation I have found is the one I came
up with, and that is the 50 helpers of Gilgamesh, the 50 sailors of Jason, the 50 guardians
of Anana, the 50 sons of the prophets were a chorus of priest or priestesses performing
the choral dance, reenacting the cosmology of the cult.
And so that's why they're always shown in the same context of the person ascending
into heaven, because in order to perform the choral dance, you're repeating the cycles
of the heavens.
Anyway, one more thing, John, real quick, if you don't mind, this dance, I love how
you're bringing this to dancing, and this is extremely important, but it's an initiatory
thing.
This is not just, you had to become an insider to be aware.
In order to understand or know these things, would you agree that they were probably unique
to each culture?
So, for example, if Israel practiced the same thing, they gave it their own Israelite spin
from their own cultural aspect?
Yes.
Look, there would be a lot of similarities, but there would be a lot of differences.
But one thing is certain, they all danced, they all sung.
That's how world peoples do it.
There was no text, right?
The text comes late.
The Torah is written 5th century BCE, 4th century BCE, but textual religion comes centuries
after that, right?
And the Christianity with which we are familiar is a product of the printing press of the
Protestant Reformation, which has been totally deritualized, totally decosmologized, so that
we can even wrap our brains around this.
But this is what I'm showing you here is the pattern and template of religion for tens
of thousands of years.
And it doesn't matter where you go, you go to Native America, you go to the Aborigines
of Australia, you go to the Hot Tots in Africa, they sing and dance their calendar, they sing
and dance their religion, they sing and dance their culture, because that's how they do
it.
That's how you, without writing, you keep your memories in a variety of different mediums.
One is aural, sound, you sing, the other is somatic, action.
You dance and you perform dramas, right?
You act out what you want to remember.
You dance out what you want to remember.
There's an ancient Greek writer, I can't remember his name right now, but he writes that the
entire doctrine of the Pythagoreans was all revealed in a dance.
Oh my God!
Everything Pythagoras was teaching in his secret mystery school, the sciences, the mathematics,
you know, the philosophy, the theology.
Esoterics, the Gamatria, all right.
Esoterics and the, you know, the hard math, because he taught geometry and he taught mathematics,
right?
According to this writer, he said, everything Pythagoras taught was encoded in a dance.
What do you do with that?
Well, one, that's how world peoples would remember.
They would, you know, certain steps, certain melodies, certain chants, you would encode
memories on that and that's how you recall certain numeric systems or certain, certain
geometries or certain, right?
You do encode it in a dance and apparently they did, right?
We just don't think this way and we can't think this way.
This is permanently lost.
The point of my graphic here is you could create a lunar calendar if the, you know,
the moon moves around the ecliptic crossing those 50 stars.
So you could perform a coral dance and not only reveal where the moon is at now, but
you could, in performing your dance, you could project where the moon would be through the
entire month and the entire year.
Same with the sun, same with the planets, then now you can actually start using this
coral dance for other cosmological issues such as to control the weather, right?
Because when you perform this coral dance, you're connecting yourself into the eternal
realm.
It's like that plaque, that Assyrian plaque where they say, we now think it's a healing
amulet.
We first thought it was, you know, a ritual for rebirth in the afterlife, but now we
think it's a healing amulet.
In other words, they're analogically using the powers of the eternal world to heal a
person.
Well, the rain dance is the same thing.
The rain dance Native Americans do, they're actually repeating certain dances that belong
to the cult and cosmology of their tribe, but they're drawing the powers of the heavens
in order to control the weather.
And what's interesting is behind all that is this deep esoterica that deals with all
these different aspects of the cosmos.
We just think it's a bunch of people hopping up and down, dancing around on a fire, trying
to get rain coming down, but the origins of it is a complex, oral cognitive system where
they're repeating their cosmology and their memories in order to help control things that
happen on the ground.
So, John, I'm thinking about something here.
The accurate translation of when Jesus is risen in the gospels, and isn't it interesting
that this is the day before Easter?
We're talking about all this, and we've gone through resurrection motifs in astral theology
and the whole bank.
But Jesus was written.
We celebrate Easter with a bunny and eggs.
What the heck?
Yeah.
Yeah.
What is that?
Hey, I'm celebrating fertility tonight.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Wow.
There you go.
Yeah.
He's got his way of doing it, too.
Maybe we can do a podcast there.
All right.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Well, think about this, guys.
Jesus was risen, and we always mistranslate it as the first day of the week.
It is not the first day of the week.
The word is sabbatoon, and it's the first day of the weeks.
It's a set of weeks.
And for those who have studied it, it's only in one case in Mark, and Mark has both.
Mark says in one place where he was risen the first day of the week, and in the other
place it says he was risen the first of the weeks, so he's saying something different.
All the other gospels say he was risen the first day of the weeks, plural.
That is thought by biblical scholars who know about the distinction, that that's the
49 days, the seven weeks of Pentecost.
And he was risen on the first day of a set of 49 days, plus one.
Pentecost is 50 days, and it consisted of this 49-day set, and then one more.
The Jubilee is also built on 49 plus one to make the 50.
Your system seems very akin to that.
I think that system is, also all of the Jewish holidays are a set of sevens, right?
Right.
Seven days to sabbat, there's seven weeks, there's seven seven weeks, there's seven
years, there's seven times seven years, I mean all that's laid out in Deuteronomy.
But to be honest, Luther, I didn't make that connection, but now that you bring up Pentecost
in the seven weeks, I'm actually quite excited, I really do want to reach through and hug you.
Because I think that's right, that the resurrection, you know, like the resurrection, you know,
the Christian resurrection, we hold it on the first Sunday after the first full moon
after the spring equinox.
That's when we hold Easter.
It's a astrothiological holiday, right?
It's following.
Exactly.
It's on the one day of the year that is attuned to the rebirth of the celestial spheres.
Sabbath, the most holy day after the full moon, the phase of the moon that is in full rebirth
after the spring equinox.
The sun has come out of the winter and is being reborn, right?
So Easter day is the day of resurrection.
That's why we hold it on when we hold it.
But I think early on, I'm now really curious about the seven weeks and the days of Pentecost,
because it probably does have a connection.
I'm pretty sure it is, John.
I mean, looking at even just Jubilee with the 49 years concept, they're reborn on the
50th technically.
I mean, it's like a holy life.
So if you look in the New Testament, the Holy Spirit comes down, baptizing them with fire,
okay?
They get this fire.
They first went through water, now they're going through fire, technically.
And now you hear about this freedom, almost like they're new people.
Of course, you know the accountants and such, but it does seem apparently they've been really
born again as Jesus Christ.
Well, I am, you know, look, if you had a chorus of 50 Israelite priests, I mean, there's your
entire Deuteronomy calendar, seven, right?
And so that's your days, your weeks, your months and your years, all being kept in check
with a choral dance.
So I, god damn, I'm more genius than I thought.
Yes!
Yes!
Yes!
Yes!
You, John, you rock, man.
Yeah.
Luther's good about this stuff, though, John.
This is great.
This is great.
Hey, just don't forget the little people who held you along the way.
No, Luther, Luther, I actually, I'm probably going to call you and then I'll pick your
brain.
Okay?
Absolutely.
Well, you know I'm a numbers guy, John, I always think about rhythms and esoterics
and Gamatria numerical values, alphanumerics, that's kind of my specialty.
So I was just thinking about that.
And it does seem to fit, doesn't it?
It does.
You know, I'd have to look at it some more, but what I'm doing, guys, is I started with
a mystery, where did the 50 helpers of Gogomish come from?
That led to where did the 50 choral dancers of early Greek drama come from?
And I put all these tendrils together to realize, actually, there is a system here.
It's a system being used in different cultures of choral dancers repeating the heavenly motions
and using that initiatory dance to do all these things, to keep a calendar, to initiate
people into the afterlife, to follow the planets, to control the weather, to control
the culture.
This last symbol is initiation into the afterlife, where in all these traditions, all the way
up, I would argue until the book of Revelation, right, first century Christianity, in order
to be saved, you probably had to perform in most of the Christian sects some liturgy
that involved the dance, where the person ascended into the heavens.
So, you know, this is all gone, and we don't even think about it anymore, but I've kind
of done this large arc of history, starting with an apocryphal text in the book of Revelation,
going back to 2000 BCE, and the pyramid texts were even further back than that, and showing
that in all these different traditions, we have a, you know, and quite frankly, we find
it in Native American traditions.
Boy, there's a, you know, there's a great Navajo tradition, where the two came to the
father, that Navajo warriors, I think it's Navajo.
I don't want to misspeak, but I think it's Navajo, but before they would go into battle,
they would perform this ritual, which included, you know, singing and dancing, you know, we
think this is the war dance, right, the war dance, right, they're hopping around the fire,
this is what white people do to this stuff, but they're performing a myth, and in the
myth of the, where the two came to the father, the two hero twins journey through the celestial
world to the house of the sun, where the house of eternity is, where the ancestors go, and
I just think what an interesting ritual to perform right before you go to battle.
You're performing the ritual that reenacts the journey into the next world, meaning if
you die in that military action, you're ready to meet the ancestors.
You just perform the ritual, which will lead you there, right?
That's part of the war dance, and of course, you know, the whole point of the war dance
is to get the other pot to go into the underworld.
Okay, so with the Comron texts, the war rule scroll, and the songs of Sabbath sacrifice
go together, don't they?
Yes, the songs of Sabbath sacrifice is what we're looking at here, and so it's the priest
entering into the celestial temple while keeping their calendar, might I add, but also
this is central to their ethos, their theology, their temple cult, and of course the Essians
don't have a temple, but they do have a core of demons revealed in that scroll, so there's
their temple liturgy, and of course, you know, so, you know, again, there's no homogenous
Judaism, there's different sects of Judaism, there's different texts in Judaism, there's
different rituals in Judaism, pretty soon Jews can't stand each other, right, that some
Jews hate the Samaritans, and on and on it goes, and this is true of every culture, this
is true of every religion, we're not religion, this is human nature, but the bottom line
is I am showing you, okay, that's my last slide for that, I am showing you the template
of how these astrological systems work, one, they're based in the sky, and two, they're
based on a ritual where a chorus of priests or priestesses or initiates performed what
was happening in the sky, okay, and so, and we probably have this existing all the way
into early Christianity, so this too is part of astrophiology, the cosmic dance, hot damn,
let's go.
That's right, that's it, that's it, you can't stop that, what do you think Derek?
Bro, what I think isn't really contributing much, so I'm just listening.
I'm just talking about my brain juice style, man, I'm having a hard time, and I have no
idea how long I've taken, I just want to do a couple, I don't know, I'm done, do you
have any questions?
Wow, man, I mean, this has been a hell of a journey, and it makes me really want to
ponder deeper into the afterlife, what that even means.
Ancestry worship comes to mind too, just thinking about people who did stuff like that, because
they're so connected with so many things in a way we aren't, we're so disconnected today,
and I don't know, you know, of course, like you said before, John, you said it best, and
I heard you on a podcast one time, or on a show one time, where you said, you know,
there's pros and there's cons, if it weren't for the literacy of today, we wouldn't have
AC units, thank God.
What do we not have now, you know, like, what have we sacrificed on the altar, just to have
this AC, and just to have this type of, it really makes me think deep, because I've always
had this idea that maybe, just maybe, they were more in tune in the rhythm of things
than we were, not saying they were especially more advanced in some way we don't, they have
the same hardware, like you said.
The way their software worked makes me wonder, I wish I could go back just for, you know,
a glimpse to experience maybe what they were experiencing it, because they had to be experiencing
some serious deep truth from their own subconscious, whatever you want to call it,
to be going through and going so far with this stuff, you know?
Well, I mean, right, everything is a, it's a series of trade-offs, and so, and we have lost
some things, but we've lost them because we traded them for other things.
And, you know, I am really appreciative of my air conditioning and running water and
refrigerator, but, you know, I come from a Protestant, well, a semi-Protestant tradition,
and very often walking in and listening to someone preach at the pulpit is very sterile to me.
I would rather walk out and watch the sun and moon, which I do, by the way.
And there is a connection with nature and the world at large that we've lost, I think.
And, you know, you can overanalyze something to the point where, you know, theology, guys, is about the deeper truths.
Literacy is great for science, right, because science isn't about the deeper truths.
Science is about the refrigerator and air conditioning.
But religion is about the soul and the eternal infinite potential of the soul and the infinite potential for suffering in this world and the paradox between the two.
And, you know, how do you handle that?
Well, I would argue that the writers of the Bible did some stunningly genius things when they humanized the divine and brought it down to our level.
But over the centuries, we have, you know, there are certain losses now.
You know, there's nothing worse than accessing the divine through a series of commentaries and committees and bureaucracies and ecclesiastical, you know, levels and you're like, oh, that's missing the point.
But in some sense, you know, look, we tend to over romanticize the past.
Now, I just have to say, the leading principle in this world is entropy.
There are certain advantages to this kind of thinking. You are connected to nature. You're very, because you live in it.
But this kind of thinking also led to human sacrifice. This kind of thinking also led to ritualized warfare. This kind of thinking also led to ritualized prostitution and all kinds of caste systems and misogyny that's unbelievable.
So, so, you know, there's that aspect of it as well. And it turns out, every time you look at a culture, at least in my opinion, I always come away thinking the same thing.
The path to enlightenment is really only for the individual.
And, you know, people on the plains 10,000 years ago had just as hard of a time being enlightened and individuated as we do today.
There are different challenges, but I'd imagine most of them weren't interested, just like most people today aren't interested, you know, because enlightenment is hard work.
It's hard work. I mean, you can't chop up bodies and put them in plastic bags and show them on podcasts. You gotta do something else.
Well, what if I chop the body up into 50 pieces?
This is what the Aztecs did, the Mexica did.
Literally, they would put a human person on an altar, the person was alive, and they would cut his chest open, take his heart out while it was still beating, of course by then he's dead.
They'd put a fire drill in his chest and start a fire and that was the sacred fire.
All of this was in tune with the Pleiades when it reached its zenith every 52nd year, which was part of the mine, you know, the Mesoamerican calendar.
So all of it is astral, it's all astral theology, but astral theology can lead us to the story of Jesus walking on water and it can lead us to human sacrifice.
So it has the same pros and cons. You know, I'm just picking up where you said there's certain things we've lost and certain things we gain, but in the end, finding enlightenment is an individual path that takes work and suffering.
And that's the great journey. That's the great journey.
You know, that's why I go back to the way you started your book, John, guarding against the three excesses. You remember that? You know what I'm talking about.
You know, three ways of either romanticizing the past or making it primitive.
Yeah, making it primitive, exactly. And somehow, on those three legs, that's like saying, okay, here are the three things that can go wrong at the outset.
So let's try to have a balanced viewpoint as we as we look at this. And I think that's important because the trade off that you're talking about has always been there.
There's always been the trade off as we move through time, even to build the pyramids. You said once in a former show, you said the pyramids were not even possible, unless there was a certain level of organization of consciousness.
So, I mean, so what do you want to say if you want to say, you know, the pyramids, well, that was too much to sacrifice, we should have gone back to pre pyramidal times.
I don't know how much is too much.
I don't know.
That's right. Everything is given take and this has been going on for tens of thousands of years.
And so, you know, in some ways it's sobering in some ways it's hopeful because, you know, tens of thousands of years and we're still here doing what we do.
So anyway, anything else there's a couple of things I want to plug before I leave.
Yeah, yeah, well we want you to talk about some things Derek did you have something because I want John to talk about these activities he's got going.
Well, you do that.
Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead and close out because I definitely.
Yeah.
John, John, tell us about the excursions. You got going later this year. Okay. First, Egypt, you're going to be there with Boston University geologist Robert shock. What's going on? What do you hope to do with it?
Yeah, no, I'm doing a two over two week tour of Egypt with Robert shock. You know, I've just had a, the past couple years I've gone on several trips with Robert and this is just sort of been accidental it hasn't been, you know, particularly planned I spent three weeks in India with them.
And so that's where we became I became friends with him and his wife Katie, and they're delightful people for Robert shocks the guy that dated the Sphinx enclosure to pre dynastic times it's water eroded.
And so he's a geologist and he he he announced that in the late 80s he was crucified by academia.
You know, I'm not a geologist, but the geology looks pretty simple. I've, I've looked at all of his material and, and I, you know, it just seems to make perfect sense to me.
So and all that means to me is the, the base of the Sphinx was built before the pyramids.
And, you know, it doesn't mean that whatever was there was recarved later, you know, the coffee or kufu could have read whatever was there I, you know, I have no pony in this fight I'm, I'm not really into aliens guys or, or, you know, I'm not into a lot of the alternative
histories that the conspirators I am an academic, but the bottom line is civilization goes back well before we have counted on it and human complexity. It is maddening that most of our history books are still filled with this Darwinian mystique of everyone before
the Nazi state was a hunter-cather primitive that was clubbing their neighbor and dragging them to their cave.
Right.
It's just maddening that that's how we think of history. It's junk. It's garbage.
And so.
So anyway, that's his theory. He's actually trying to raise money and I'll just give a plug for Robert. He's, he's got a,
you know, what do you call it when you try to raise money kickstart? He's got a kickstarter just to type in Robert shock, SCH, OCH on, on the internet and he's trying to raise $50,000 to do a documentary on his research.
And I think it's worthy to do I support him.
And so I will be traveling with him in Egypt. That tour is closed. Unfortunately, so if you're interested in going to Egypt, one, he'll be doing future tours to Egypt and I'm sure I will be too.
So if, if any of your listeners are interested in that, then keep in touch because I, I'll be returning. He'll be returned.
Cool, cool. And then, and then you've got your more traditional tour, John, to chocolate Canyon in Northwest New Mexico. And that's also this summer, I think.
Yeah, that actually, I do want to talk about that I'm doing archaeo astronomy of Fremont petroglyphs. I've got a 35 minute video if you just type in on YouTube, my name or the archaeo astronomy project of Fremont Indian State Park or archaeo astronomy Fremont.
That's the name of the tribe.
My 35 minute video will come up and you can watch it I've actually discovered something down there that no one else has discovered.
So that's kind of exciting when you look at something and realize no one has known this for 1000 years.
What I'm doing from June 10 to June 13, a little tour through chocolate Canyon chocolate Canyon Northwestern New Mexico is the largest archaeological site in North America has these huge ruins kivas of 1000 rooms.
Many of them are astronomically aligned. I'll be doing a day tour that there'll be day tours by park guides night tours I'll be doing a night lecture showing people how the sky works.
And the cost of the tour is super cheap it's under 400 bucks. Of course you have to get yourself there, but I'm just charging for camp fees and food. That's it.
And you get some experts in the field of archaeo astronomy and of ancient Native American mythology. You get to spend four days in some of the most beautiful, it's not gaunt landscape that you'll encounter but it'll be fun.
Well it is beautiful. I've seen the video and you do most of the photography. Now, Stephen is that your son, John?
No, that's my brother.
Oh, okay, that's your brother. He's credited with doing some of the drone photography. So I guess you've been using drones for a while in order to get the aerial shots but it's beautiful guys if you want to know more about it, you want to kind of get your feet wet to know what John is doing.
Check out the video, it's on YouTube, Archaeo Astronomy Fremont. So he's got that. And then John, next year, you've got a tour through the ancient sites of Britain, including Stonehenge, we understand.
Yeah, I want to plug that. That actually is an open tour. We've just developed this with the sacred sites journeys. Andrea, who runs that and I, with Dr.
Vanderveld and Andrea are going to take, it's actually two tours. One week is through the ancient sites of Britain and a second optional week extension is through Wales.
Now look, the sites we're visiting through Britain are actually amazing. If you've never been or if you've been before, I promise you, you'll see them in ways you've never seen them before because, well, I'm going to be there.
And I'm going to be explaining some things that I'm sure no one else has told you about the history of Britain and certain Arthurian traditions and how they link to astral theology.
We'll be visiting Salisbury, White Horse, Apebury. We're getting a private entrance into Stonehenge at sunrise.
So it'll just be a group there. So that's very special. And then we're going to several ancient sites. We'll be at Glastonbury as well, several Arthurian sites related to our later Arthurian tradition.
But you know, the Holy Grail guys is actually linked to the alchemical tradition of Egypt, right? The Grail is the crater in the alchemical tradition. So that's one way to analyze the Holy Grail.
Another way is in folk etymology, the word grail meant ritual, initiation. And so the earliest interpretation of the Grail amongst the country folk was that it was a secret ritual.
Wow.
So, oh, oh, oh, wait, wait, I'm not done.
What do you got? What do you got?
This is exciting. Also, the country.
Stonehenge was known as choir gall, the place of the ring dance.
What?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The druids performed some sort of ring choral dance around the stones of Stonehenge as part of their ritual system.
Fantastic.
So, look, that's May 31 through June 7 is the first leg of that tour. And if you're interested, look, that's going to be fairly inexpensive as well.
I mean, these tours are, you know, I don't make any money on them, guys. This is just getting people out to the sites, sharing my love of the sites.
And so we try to make them as inexpensive as possible, but also have a good time. Andrea at Sacred Sites Journey does a great job with the hotels, everything, you know,
it's generally incredibly well done. The sites we see will be wonderful. If any of your viewers are interested, have them email me or contact me or private message me,
because I promise you, it will be an experience they will never forget.
Also, I'm there and I'm kind of cool.
Maybe not. But Andrea is cool.
And Wendy Vanderbilt is doing the whales version of the tour. She's amazing. And she has her PhD in medieval studies in Arthurian lore.
I would never be doing that through whales. And if you've never been to whales, oh my goodness, it's just beautiful.
Wow.
All kinds of places we're going to be at the Arthurian sites and little villages that you don't see anywhere else.
England has some real treasures and we're not going to be, you know, at the Queen Elizabeth's castle.
We're going to be at ancient sites and these out of the way little towns that are actually so we're seeing. They are amazing.
Wow.
Fantastic.
I'm playing. There's one more thing I'd like to bring up.
Yeah, sure.
I've created a website. It's not done.
Yeah, okay.
But it's a www.JohnLundwell.com.
And so this is new from last I did a podcast with you guys. So you can type my name in and boom, there's going to be all my information.
You know, I've got the platform, but I still have to add, you know, a ton of content to it, but I'm quite excited about that.
And over the next several months, I'll be adding all the content, including links to this podcast.
So, man, that is, that is great. Very exciting news. You're going to have a good 2019 and 2020.
So if you're interested right now, until that website is ready, you can reach Dr. John Knight Lundwall on Facebook.
And he's active in all our groups. He's not hard to find. Just get a message to him if you want to go on those trips. Well, Derek, are you there?
Absolutely, man. Absolutely heck of a show guys. Definitely get up with John.
Dr. Lundwall, that was a heck of a show. I look forward to us doing this again. All we did was close out on Orion and the walking of the water.
Imagine how much more we have. We have too many mysteries. Yeah, we've got a lot more to deal with you, sir.
I really appreciate you coming on the show and thank you guys like Luther said at the beginning.
If you like this show and you want to help support us, check us out on the Patreon, the PayPal. Hey guys, don't be stingy, man. It helps us keep this thing going.
Like I said, a lot of people have enjoyed this and hopefully we can continue with this radio program and all the work that's being put in by the scholars and you, Luther,
you put so much effort into preparing for these programs. It's just as important, I'm telling you. If not, it would be boring and it wouldn't be as fun.
If it weren't for my plastic bag, thank you, plastic bag.
Thank you, Derrick.
I mean, starring the whole show, you know, like.
Yeah, it was. That's right.
But thank you, Derrick. If you ever have me back, I'm going to put a plastic bag behind me in the next podcast.
We're looking on.
So, I had a great time with the plastic bag tonight.
I think a running gag is born here.
Thank you guys so much.
We love you, John.
Great time. Great time with you.
Yeah, thank you so much. I'll see you next time, guys. Myth vision.
Happy Easter.
