No, it's based off this way of conceiving the world that existed for tens of thousands of years.
Well, a couple of things. First off, there was a branch of early Christianity that believed in
the divinization of the soul, that if you lived a good life and you did your Christian liturgies,
you would be reborn a god. That's a fact, but that got strained out of Christian theology,
and so it disappears probably by the sixth century. It's gone. So that aspect was part of
early Christianity. But again, what is early Christianity? You had a group of Christians
in this city, and a group in a different city, and a group in a different city. This group was
reading one text, that group was reading another text, that group was reading another text. So
it's not all just one homogenous belief system. It's a network of belief systems that's
and the Catholic Church had to straighten it out. Remember, we talked about this last time.
They had all these councils where they voted on the scriptures and they voted on their theology.
Well, of course they did. What else were you going to do? It was such a mess. You had to
standardize it, and doing that saved Christianity, but at the same time, you kick out everything
that you're not sure of, and you kick out. Some people are just dead set against it,
because not because it isn't the truth of what they practiced, but because Larry believes in it,
and I hate Larry. Some of these decisions can be quite arbitrary. If you've lived two years,
you know this to be the case. It's a messy situation. So the point is, going back to your
comment, let's just re summarize the scenario here. According to one possible hypothesis,
the story of Jesus walking on water originates as a resurrection narrative, and that resurrection
narrative originates from old astro theological paradigms where the soul descends into the waters,
has a guide who helps them through the waters so that they can find the secrets of immortality,
and they're reborn out of the waters to receive their crown of eternal life. There's all kinds of
variations to that, but that's what's going on. They encode that belief system because they see
it happening in the sky with Orion. Orion sits at a very special loci. It's where the Milky Way
ecliptic and celestial equator meet, so it's seen as a gate of the dead. It's where the planets will
cross the Milky Way, so that's where the soul is following. And then Orion is also associated with
the rising and setting sun in different parts of the year. So there's all these processes happening
which become a metaphor for Orion being associated with rebirth. So that becomes the Savior figure.
Or rather, I should say, that becomes the representation of the Savior figure. Osiris and
Mithras and your heroes of Heracles, and they, you know, look, the Egyptian word for God is
netter, and it means function or principle. Right? It's a function of nature that's happening.
And so we call it God, but actually the earliest Egyptian is not exactly sure
what they were conceiving when they used the term netter. And so Osiris is a netter of death
and rebirth, a function or principle of death and rebirth. He's associated with these specific
stars in the sky because they exist at the loci of death and rebirth, because this is where
all that happens. And so this is the thinking. The idea then is, well, Jesus, the Christians
take this thinking and they create a story of Jesus being resurrected on the sea. We find that in
John, what is it, chapter 19 to 20, where Jesus first appears to the disciples by or on the sea.
And then this over century, a couple of centuries gets split into two different stories where now
Jesus is now walking on the sea, performing a miracle. And what's great about that story is,
you know, these previous gods of Osiris and Mithras and all these people are cosmogonic gods.
They're in control of the universe, and they're representing universal functions of death and
rebirth, right? And so they're these cosmic gods. And what the Christians do with Jesus,
I think, is genius. They make him everything but that. He's a fisherman. He's a carpenter.
He's a blue-collar worker. He's not a cosmic god. He doesn't wave his hand and, you know,
everything changes. He's one of the people, right? And he does these miracles to a bunch
of fishermen who really aren't that great. You know, it's not the smart crowd. It's not the
powerful crowd. His disciples aren't the Roman Senate. They're not the Magi. They're not, you
know, they're not the rich and the powerful and the smart. And they're just a bunch of
no nothings, right? That's good. And this is actually a genius conceptualization of deity,
because they are introducing deity to the common person, to every man, woman, and child,
and Christ is now one of them. He's no longer a cosmic god. And so they retell the story,
with him walking on water, saving a boat of fishermen who are so afraid, you know, they,
they're just, save us, save us, save us. And Jesus appears as one of them to save them out of
this situation. So it, you know, that's, that is, if that is, if the astral theology is the origin
of the story, it is a incredible retelling, because it humanizes the divine and divinizes
the human, right? That's the point of Peter walking on water, by the way. He is, he, that is a
snapshot of the human trying to cross the bridge into the divine. Thank you. He doesn't quite make
it. He, he, he steps out and says, Hey, look what I'm doing. And then he says, Hey, I'm doing any
six. And so, yeah. But, but, but the point of that, I think, is, is to show the bridge between
the human and the divine. So. And John, John, only one disciple does it. The rest of them stay in the
boat. And the one that does it has the dual name, dual name being associated with dual nature,
right? He's both Simon, and he's Peter. He's, he's both the one who hears, you know, he hears,
he's impulsive. He's reactive to his environment. And he's the rock Peter. So he's, he's both those
things, the dual nature makes sense that he'd be the one. I think that's a very good insight.
And I agree. Peter is that, that person he has. He, I mean, look, Peter's the one that denies
Christ three times, right? And then he's the one that is the most passionate of the disciples.
There's his dual nature. And it's a, again, you know, people come to this text and they criticize it.
I quite frankly think it was written by a bunch of genius Shakespearean writers,
because they, they have these incredible insights into human nature. And they personify them in
these characters. And I don't really care if the origin of the story was asked for theological
or history, the story is genius. It's awesome. And it shows a part of human nature and human soul.
And it's addressing, by the way, a great mystery that nobody can answer. Right? I can't answer it.
Well, guess what? Neither can Richard Dawkins, right? No, I mean, Albert Einstein, the Pope
can't answer it. The president, you know, no one can answer it. The only one who can answer it,
is the individual soul who dies and takes that journey, right? And it turns out on that voyage,
everyone is a simple fisherman. There are no. Whoa. Yeah. We're all stuck in that boat. We're all
stuck in that boat. Preach, man. Preach. Yeah. All right. I'm on my soapbox. That's good. That's
good. That's good. That's really good. Um, I have to agree 100%. In fact, Bill Darlison,
one of our favorite guests as well, who talks about astral theology, says,
it's taking you through the journey. Of course, he doesn't, he doesn't go into the depth complex
stuff in many ways, but it's this story that takes, it's the story of the soul. It's not necessarily
a historical event, which is why historians are going to scratch your heads going, this is stupid,
forever, because they're never going to find anything in concrete history that's going to
validate anything they're trying to prove. However, if you stop looking with these eyes,
and I guess as the text likes to say, start looking with the eyes within, so to speak,
there's a, there's a way of looking at these things and going, dude, even if I found out that
there was a simple rabbi who treated lepers with respect, that's great. But, but how amazing is
it to take someone like the lepers that no one gave, and I'm going to say it, two shits about.
They didn't care about these people. They didn't care about the widow. They didn't care about the
people who were broken, the guys who were begging for a coin to get a piece of bread. Okay. They
didn't care about, and here comes this man who doesn't want to hang out with the rich. He doesn't
care about your, your lofty home and your beautiful, this is, no, no, no, go and sell everything you
have and come follow me. He's saying, forget the material. Okay. What matters is this person,
because this is a human being. This is somebody who's a God on his, on his journey to being a God,
divine, because we're all part of the divine. Whether you want to say you become God or not,
because some people won't go that far. I, I love where this is going, because I personally feel
like we're all part of the spark, you know, and that idea just resonates with me as me and Luther
like to call it. I love where you're going with this because one of the questions I had about
this is these ceremonies of baptism, these spirit baptism, fire baptism, are these ceremonies that
they would enact in, in like while alive so that when they would die, they would also be able to
journey these and go through these paths to ascend to the God? Or is it something? I think so. My
answer is yes. I mean, you know, you can't prove that out of the text because they were never written
down. The next half of my presentation, I'm going to address that. I just want to step
one second and just say, guys, in my view, the Judeo-Christian tradition is a
thunderclap in history, because literally, the divine is rewritten for the poorest among us.
It is, you know, all these astro theological systems, in order to survive, you had to be
initiated. Well, for most of history, you had to be rich in order to be initiated because you had
to pay for it. That's right. That's right. You know, the coffin text, purchasing a book of the dead
so that you could be saved in an Egyptian, hardly anybody could afford that, right? Yep. In the
Greco-Roman mysteries, it was very expensive to be initiated. Exactly, the LOC in mysteries? Yeah,
that's right. And so, for most of history, this kind of salvation appears to be
rather limited to, you know, a certain class of people. Now, what did the common people think?
We don't know because, you know, their thoughts never get written down. But what we do know
is suddenly, this figure shows up named Jesus Christ, and he's the exact opposite of everything
that's come before. And he comes to give salvation to the poorest among us. And all his miracles
are related to the common person. He's not this cosmic deity that we find everywhere in the pagan
systems. He is now being humanized. And this is just a radical change. And so, yes, a lot of
his stories are going to be predicated in earlier stuff, but they're all changed as a way for
the common person to have a hope in their natural life and to be saved. Well, I think that's
genius. And by the way, it's why Christianity took off. You know, we keep saying that Christianity
stole this and that and blah, blah, blah. I'm sorry, Christianity gave hope to millions of people
that otherwise wouldn't have had it. And so, at one final point, even if the story of Jesus
walking on water is, you know, non-historical. And I think this is a very good argument to show
that it is non-historical. It doesn't mean Jesus isn't historical. This is the other thing that
people do. And they say, it's not historical. Therefore, there's no historical Jesus. But stop!
Why would you say that? Why would you say that? The two are entirely unrelated. So, just remember,
there's always going to be a problem between myth and history. It's a problem no one's going to solve,
but there can be historical truth to the myths, just as there can be mythological
truths to the way history unfolds. So, you know, that's the paradox of life. Anyway, there you go.
John, John, let's go back to the developing media. And let me flip that for a second,
because last show you gave us kind of a metric. You said when a new medium is introduced into a
population, a certain percentage will latch on to that new medium. They will be capable of using it.
However, the majority, as you move on, will not. They will tend to cling to the old,
and they will not adapt to the new. At least they won't do it as quickly. So,
so, so what happens when you have a new medium? Now you're talking about codices, a book, all of the
medium, all of the media that became identified with Christianity. But everybody didn't catch it.
You have this egalitarian, this wonderful religion that's relating to the least of the least,
the poorest of the poor, and yet it's in written text that only certain can access. It's kind of
like, come on, let's face it. It's kind of like saying, okay, let's go from landlines to cell phones.
A certain percentage of the population is going to have cell phones, like back in the days when
they weren't affordable, okay? And yet those with cell phones, even though it's not everybody,
they will remember those with landlines and somehow finally take them into consideration.
It's not just those who are able moving along. Are you getting what I'm saying?
Yeah, I'm probably not the person to address this because I miss the day of the rotary phone.
I get so sick and tired of my smart phone sometimes.
Yeah, you didn't make the 20%. Stop it. Stop it. I didn't want to make a damn phone call.
Don't do anything else. Yeah, right, right. Anyway,
One more thing I wanted to mention and get your comments on, John, is how this religion, how this
system of thought and what we see in the New Testament being radically new and obviously
appealing to more than just your higher ups, you're now creating a priest out of everyone,
male, female, you're giving priesthood, which gives them access to God in a way they never
were allowed to have, which is a beautiful thing. I mean, you can take away the slavery, which,
you know, obviously, you know, this had world, everybody did these things. So there's certain
relevant and non irrelevant situations. But to make everybody a priest, and if you look at their
Old Testament, if a male had a finger missing, he wasn't even allowed to enter the Holy Holies.
Here, male, female, free, slave, Jew or Greek, everyone is accessing the inner circle, that
holy of holies now. That is, you can't bring enough money to them. You know, you couldn't
pay enough to get that. And I think there's some hidden secret thing there, because not hidden
secret, but it's missed. He's flipping the money changer tables. There are probably people paying
to enter this Holy of Holies. There's probably people who are like, hey, give me a tour, you know,
and everybody's getting access, the poorest of the poor, you know, the woman with the miter,
you know. Well, let me link what Luther said with what you said. Christian theology is what you
just said, Derek, but it exists within the culture of, and most people retain the Old
Traditions, which is what Luther said. So it turns out, you know, the teachings of Jesus are
radical. So radical that there are a lot of people that thought they were heretical,
you know, that's why he gets killed. And there are a lot of people that just don't want to live
them. And that's pretty much the state of Christianity. So it's, but it takes centuries
for this sort of egalitarian view that Jesus is teaching to work. I mean, you know, the people
in the first century, you know, they had slaves, most of Christians were slaves, but some of them
had slaves, you know, we're constantly judging people in the past by the morality of today,
which is, you know, it's a terrible mistake. But the bottom line is Jesus comes in with a radical
numerality, and it has to be processed through the human culture of the day and every day from
then until now. And that's very messy business. And so also, you know, I do think first century
Christians were using rituals more than a text. And so who gets access to those rituals? Well,
you know, it doesn't take long for human beings to screw all this up. I mean, there was a period
in Catholicism where you paid the priest to absolve your sins, right? So, so it all went back
to the same old crap that people have been doing forever and ever, right? And there wasn't a long
period in Christianity, you know, where there was misogyny and women weren't treated equally. And
not everyone was a priest. And Christians have always been dividing up who can be saved and who
can't be saved. And, and, you know, it's not just right, it's every group, you know, every religion,
including non-religions. The secular world is constant. They are the most fundamentalist
religious people I've ever met. They're constantly preaching who is saved and who's not saved. And
who is saved are the people who think exactly like them. And everyone else is a shrew. And so
it's the same human nature, no matter where you go. And it doesn't matter if you're sitting in a
cathedral or a university, the same stupid dance is being done up at the pulpit. And behind all that
is this message by this divine person who was a carpenter and a fisherman who said, hey,
you can skip the circus. Just come follow me. And, and that's what's, that's what's beautiful about
the New Testament and Christian religion as far as I'm concerned. Oh, there's beauty in other
religions as well, of course. And there's certainly beauty in astroph theology. But, you know, this
is a radical change that occurs. And it occurs in, you know, it doesn't occur in China, doesn't
occur in Japan. It doesn't occur anywhere around the world, not in the Americas. It occurs with
the Judeo-Christian tradition. And, and, and that is a good thing, because that's part of the thing
that builds the modern Western civilization, the part of it. All right, I'm going to,
I don't know, can I move on because, absolutely, how are we doing? We're taking a lot of time.
I still have another half of this. This is really, really incredible stuff. This is no,
this is not where we peek down the rabbit hole. I'm asking you to jump down in with me.
Hey, that sounds great. Do we begin to get into ancient cult dances as reenactments of,
of ascending through the heavens? Yes. Yes. That's what we're going to talk about.
All right, great. We're excited. Come on. All right.
Let's see. This, I'm just writing here. This is from an article that I wrote. The Judeo-Christian
tradition is a literate one. Contrarily, pagan traditions descend from oral practices and oral
cultures. History is patterned after cyclical time and analogized with mythical, mythical archetypes.
Literate cultures, theology and history become one and mythical archetypes turn
into personal biographies. Bibel studies has always been rooted in literate criticisms with
literate biases. If an ancient priest or prophet could produce comparative religious criticisms
of a historical nature, he would not do so from texts and creeds, but from the pantheons and
their astrological models. I am, I'm introducing the idea that literate religion is textual and
historical. Oral religion is ritual and cosmological. So now we come to first century Christians.
Most of them were oral. They're, they're now entering a new world of the codex of literacy,
of the divine being humanized, of the human being divinized. And so this is a great
transitionary period. What do we expect? Well, what we get are some snippets out of the New
Testament that certainly causes me to pause and say, hmm, I think first century Christianity
isn't textual. I think something else is going on and it's part of the old paradigm. So here we
have Mark 411 where Jesus says, he's, you know, 90% of what Jesus teaches is parables, right? And
parables are stories. And they're not historical stories. They're just stories that teach a point.
And he's, that's what he does to the people. He's teaching them stories,
because the people aren't literate. So they learn by stories, right? So, but then Jesus says this
in Mark to his disciples, unto you, and is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God, but
unto them that are without all these things are done in parables and clothes. Well, what does that
mean? No, no, wait a second. What Jesus appears to be saying is that I am giving you the mystery of
the kingdom, but to everyone else, I'm just going to teach in parables. Does that mean that 90% of
the contents of Jesus's teachings in the New Testament is not what Jesus is teaching the disciples?
Right? So this statement suggests that the oral stories Jesus told were a metaphor for a
mysterious, the Greek word, a secret revealed only to alcoholites who had been ritually initiated.
The very word mystery, a Greek word, held deep liturgical connotations central to ancient religious
practices. Again, for all of history up until this point, religion was ritual, not textual,
were in a transitionary period, and we just assume at this point forward it's textual.
And here's a hint that saying, well, maybe it's not. Jesus is saying there are mysteries of the
kingdom that some people know, but everyone else, I just tell the parables. Okay? So I've got, let me
move this. All right. So here's part of the same article. Quote, numerous scholars, this is me
writing, numerous scholars have scoffed at the notion of secret rituals behind the Christian
message, but oral and semi-literate cultures are orthopraxic. That is, they conform to rituals.
In such cultures, the word of God turns out not to be the written word, but rather the spoken and
enacted word. Centuries of literate biblical exegesis seems to have blurred the reality
that non-literate peoples must perform their religious beliefs as the only way of conceptualizing
that. Why are rituals not prominent in the surviving texts? Problematically, ritual initiation was
sacred saint, and there were terrible taboos against writing about sacred liturgies. Clement
says that the sacred things of deity were kept rural and could never be written down. The center
of ancient religious practice was never textual. If this was true for early Christianity, and Jesus
seems to mention that this might be true, then the reality is rituals were not only a necessary
part of the new religion, but most likely the foundation of its very ethos, a part that never
makes it into the New Testament. Well, if that's true, that is damning to, you know, all the Protestant
Christianity. Well, so now the question is, can we find any examples? Can we find any examples of maybe
a ritual background and backbone to early Christianity that we don't find in the New
Testament, but might be there? Well, so this is where all the scholars start dividing up,
because if you're an Orthodox, traditional Protestant scholar, you're not going to go
to the apocryphal texts. You're not going to go to anything that is non-canonized. Despite the fact
that the canonization of the text was a long, arduous process that very few people could agree
on, but it eventually got to where it's at. But that doesn't mean a lot, right? And there were
scores of Gospels. They picked four, because four was the right number, right? And they picked the
four that everyone, but Larry agreed upon, because no one liked Larry, despite the fact
that Larry was in charge of the secret library. So he would know the most. So the point is,
the process is often taught as this divine will from God, when in fact there was a bunch of
bureaucrats sitting around, and look, they were doing their best. I don't mean to be pejorative.
I think most of them were doing their best, but it doesn't matter. It was a mess, and not all of
them were doing their best. There were political issues, economic issues, you know, people are
people. And so, you know, we can argue about the canonization of the text in another podcast.
What I'm saying is, here we have two really interesting snippets from two apocryphal texts.
One's the Acts of St. John, the other's the Acts of St. Thomas. These are
second and third century texts, I believe. In the Acts of St. John, there is a part where Jesus
calls his 12 disciples to him, and he has them form a ring around him, and he says,
I'm going to reveal to you the mysteries of the kingdom. All right, I just read you that verse
in Mark, where he says, I will teach you the mysteries of the kingdom, but to everyone else,
I'll tell the terrorists. Okay? Well, here in the Acts of John, Jesus says, I'm going to teach you
the mystery of the kingdom. And what does Jesus do? He has the apostles form a circle around him,
and they begin performing a dance and singing a hymn. Okay? Well, what the hell is that?
Yeah, that's cool. I love it. This is against all my protestant upbringing. First off, he can't dance.
So, here's part of the text. Grace dances. I would pipe, dance, y'all. The whole on high
have parked in our dancing. The whole heavenly host, all the angels have parked in our dancing.
And whoso dances not, knoweth not what cometh to pass. Away I am to thee, Wayfarer. I'm the truth,
the way, and the life. Yeah? Here he's saying, I am the way. Behold, thyself in me, who speak,
and seeing what I do, keep silence about my mysteries. Jesus performs a dance which teaches
the mysteries to the disciples, which the dance itself is being shared by the heavenly host,
and this is the way. This is the way to the kingdom. All right? So, that is a rather, you know,
what is that? Obviously, that's not going to make it into the New Testament.
Yeah, let that sink in. And so, and so is, and then we have this other example here in the
Acts of St. Thomas. This isn't a quote from the text. This is a quote from an author who is saying,
Sophia makes signs and secret patterns in the Acts of St. Thomas proclaiming the dance of the
blessed aeons, and who is herself surrounded by seven bridesmaids who are performing a ring dance
around her. So, Sophia teaches the mysteries of the kingdom by having her seven bridesmaids
perform a quarrel dance around her while she teaches the secrets of the next world. Okay? So,
here we have in these two apocryphal texts, two snippets where in one, Jesus is teaching the
mysteries. The grace of Jesus of God is not just on the cross. It's in a secret dance that he is
teaching to the disciples, which initiates them into the next world. Okay, so, well, what do we do
with that? Well, maybe that's just apocryphal, right? Maybe that's just is nothing. So, we can
just say, well, that was, you know, a few of the little edges of early Christianity and they were
heretical and they just got properly thrown out. Well, then, we open the book of Revelation. Now,
remember, the book of Revelation is the only book in the New Testament that identifies itself as
Scripture. It's the only book that does. It's the book that says this is Scripture. Do not add to it.
Do not take away from it. And, you know, so many Protestant Christians say this is talking about
the New Testament. It's not talking about the New Testament. It's talking about the book of Revelation
and that was put in the book of Revelation by the end of the first century, which means the first
century Christians saw the book of Revelation as their Scripture. Okay? The Gospels weren't collated
then, right? Acts weren't collated then, right? The letters of James and John weren't collated then.
Whatever one agreed with Scripture was the book of Revelation. Well, I mean, that's another jaw
dropper. What do you do with that? Because no one understands the book of Revelation. You know,
but in chapters four and five, I'm not going to take the time to read it, but here I have the
references. There are seven spirits of God. Well, you know, Sophia had seven bridesmaids perform a
choral dance around. Well, there's seven spirits of God who lead the elders to the heavenly throne.
There is a guardian at the heavenly throne. And what's the guardian? It's the cherubah, right? The
speaks, right? And that's an astro-theological model of the points of the cosmos. The initiate must
journey through in order to obtain their crown of immortality at the throne of heaven, right?
Nice. And in verses 10, 11, the elders surround the throne and sing of him. So they perform a choral
dance and sing a hymn. Hey, is she going to take the bag out? Is she going to? Hey, tell your lovely wife,
I'm explaining the mysteries of the cosmos. That's all.
I love you, brother. Quick, bury the evidence. All right, so we can move on. Okay, so we can move on.
So in verses 10 and 11, the elders of Israel perform a ring dance around the throne and the text
there is actually a hymn. It's a song. And in chapters five, eight through ten,
elders and cherubah play instruments and sing hymns. So here we have a snippet. And of course,
it's all mythologized. It's all in the strange language of revelation. But here we have the choral
dance of the elders at the throne of heaven, singing their hymns, being guarded by the seven
spirits who escort them to the heavenly throne. Well, this has a parallel in the Acts of Thomas.
It certainly has a parallel in the Acts of John. The question is, is this a reflection of an early
Christian ritual? So now, in order to be initiated into Christianity, you're baptized. The question is,
in the first century, was there a ritual dance you had to perform that made you the initiate
in candidate for heaven? Okay, this sounds so strange to us. By the way, I have this great
painting here by Vodicelli, the Annunciation, where the angels are announcing the birth
of Jesus. But look what they're doing. They're performing a ring dance. And so this tradition
actually existed for quite some time. We'll talk about that, but they're performing a ring dance as
they announced the birth of the deity. But the point is, could Revelation 4 and 5 be a reflection
of an old first century Christian ritual? Again, from the text, all you get is Revelation 4 and 5,
and no one can interpret that. And it's mythological and cosmological, and no one can interpret that
outside of its ancient roots. And so if you're a literate Protestant Christian,
you're going to say no. No, I don't want to hear it. You can't prove that. Well, fair enough,
I can't prove that. However, here's what I can say. There's a scroll in the Dead Sea Scrolls
called The Songs of the Saddest Sacrifice. Right, Dead Sea Scrolls, 3rd, 2nd century BCE,
part of the Essings. In this scroll, the priests perform a ritualized song and dance
as they ascend to the heavenly temple, where there are seven stewards that help them ascend to the
heavenly temple. The scroll itself details a ritual cycle of, I believe, 13 weeks, where the
Sunday or the Saturday, whatever holy day that they were worshiping on, they performed a hymn
and dance on that day for 13 weeks, repeating the images in the scroll. So we have then, at least in
the Essing version of Judaism, the song and dance that leads the person into the heavenly
temple and to the throne of God. This is in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Okay, now we have three people,
Clemente of Alexandria, 1st century, Epiphanias of the Salamis, the 4th century, St. Gregory,
is 6th century. All these people explicitly write that there were ritual
initiatory dances in early Christianity. I don't have the quotes. When I say explicitly,
I mean, they say that there were dances, but some of their language is actually not explicit.
It's sort of in code that they say the initiate rises to the heavens, moving their feet,
and doing what the angels do. Well, the phrase moving their feet is a technical term for dancing.
And so some of what they say, but it comes right out and says, you know, that they perform
certain dances. And so we do have ancient testimonies, at least from these three sources,
that there were rituals where the initiates performed some sort of choral dance.
And that is somehow linked to their ascent into the heavens. Okay. What we do know is by the 6th
century, 589, there's this third council of Toledo, where the Catholic Church bans all dancing from
the churches. Okay. And so we think of that. We think what, there's, they're no longer going
to have socials, right? We don't bring her back. Right, right, right. No, they're banning the priests
from doing the dancing at the altar. So something is going on all the way up until the 6th century,
where they have to stop and say, okay, no more, no more dancing by the priests in the churches.
Okay. So from the 6th century on, dancing is banned from the Catholic Church. And of course,
it was never there in the Protestant tradition. And so I'm talking about ritual dances as being
part of the grace of Christ. And people are like, what the hell is he talking about? And I'm just
saying, first couple centuries of Christianity, I think that would have been the norm. Because most
of them, all of them don't have a New Testament, by the way, right? Most of them don't have a Torah,
because most of them don't read. So they're still accessing their religious beliefs by performing
rituals. John, so John, so, so concentrating on the priesthood as, as a locus of this, of this idea
of ritual dance, I'm thinking about Israel's high priest. Now in the inter court, he wore a blue robe
that was adorned with what? Tabrets, cymbals, chimes, all the noisy stuff. You've got to tell me
that that was accompanied by dancing. Of course it was. That's what activates all of that stuff.
So you had musical sounds that were emanating from the activity of the high priest in the
inter court. And of course, hey, it was, it was transmitted to the Christian priesthood,
the formal priest of the Catholic Church. And as you said, that's where it had to be
attacked in order to stop it. Right. Makes sense. Oh, there's all kinds of singing and dancing as
part of the Israelite temple cult and a part of Judaism. Now, the, sadly, again, it's, it's not,
it's purged mostly from the tax. The, there are a couple of liturgical scenes in the Old Testament
that we can talk about, but perhaps the best example of a choral dance is when the priests
surround Jericho and pipe their horns and perform a choral dance, which bring down walls of Jericho.
And so they use the dance as they're a military offensive. Yay. But, but that, but that tradition
is, you know, we look at Raiders of the Lost Ark, where the art, you know, shoots these
lightning bolts and kills the Nazis. Well, that tradition of the choral dance
had power in it. That's where you were connecting yourself to the heavens. And so if you're
performing a choral dance around the city, you're connecting yourself to the heavens. And that's
why the walls fall. Okay. So this is part of the cognitive world of morality and the religious
world of all of ancient history, not just the Israelites. It's just that we have forgotten
that, that the Israelites did this, but they did do it.
All right. So let me just step backwards. Here we have, so I'm walking out of the Christian tradition.
So we have a few references from Clement and St. Gregory. We have a few references in apocryphal
texts. You know, and we have this odd scenario in Revelation four and five. It matches up with
the apocryphal texts. I'm just going to walk backwards in history and show how the choral dance
linked the initiate to the heavens as they sought rebirth into the next world. So here we have two
Orphic bowls. Orphism was a Greco-Roman mystery. It's contemporary with Christianity.
These are two ritual bowls. In each case, the one on the right, you see a series of 16 initiates.
And look what they're doing with it. They're all nude because they're being reborn.
They're all, they all have hand-in-arm gestures. So these are liturgical gestures. But what's
interesting about this bowl is the inscription on the outside of it, which is not depicted.
Part of it's worn away. But what it says is the initiates are circling the throne of
Zeus, Helios Zeus, the sun god, as they ascend into the heavens to find their rebirth.
And so they're, so the image implies a circling dance around the throne that serpentine
in the middle is the throne as they ascend into the heavens. So they're doing something
in the nude, which is a very standard practice of early liturgy. You took off all your clothes
because you were naked before God, right? There is this curious little scene. I believe it's in
Mark where Jesus is in the garden and there's a naked man there, right? And so that was taken by
Morton Smith. He took that and said, that belongs to an ancient ritual. I actually agree with that.
But then he said, and Jesus was gay because there was, you know, there were two naked women in the
car. I don't know why you would go there because in all these ancient liturgies, you know, you'd
be baptized naked because you're naked before God. Well, so that's the one ball where the initiates
are performing a coral dance around the altar, ascending into heaven. This ball on the left is
even more interesting. It's the same kind of thing. But the top figure is Apollo with the
Lear. Do you see that? He's got the Lear and he's playing music. And the figure to his left or
right is Orpheus leading the initiate into the underworld. Orpheus and Apollo are connected
by the musical instrument. Well, figures are, and there's Demeter and Persephone that tells you that
the initiate has descended into the underworld. There's the Lord of the underworld. There's
Caster and Pollux on the left side of the screen. And those are the savers that lead the person into
the North Celestial realm. So you're looking at this and you're thinking the initiates descending
into the underworld as he travels clockwise and reascends out of the underworld until he reaches
the throne of heaven, which is what Apollo's doing. And all of that is encapsulated in the image of a
harp. So the liturgy is being sung and danced. That's what that means. And so suddenly we start
to understand that all the imagery in the book of Revelation, you know, the angels are always playing
harps. And we get that motif through all the Middle Ages to the present day. Whenever a Christian
angel shows up, you know, they're generally playing a harp. Well, this all dates back to the early
rituals where you sung and danced the ritual. That's how you practice theory. And the angels
literally played harps to lead the deceased into the next world. All right, so there's two
Greco-Roman examples. I thought about Moses dancing nude. Moses was dancing nude and praising God.
And so in the story, so I figured I'd mention that too. Yeah, actually, one of the oldest parts of
the Old Testament, I mean, the syntax of the language shows that it's one of the oldest part
of the writing of the Old Testament is the hymn. Moses's wife sings after they crossed the Red
Sea. And so there's a hymn, which is probably accompanied by a dance as they crossed the Red Sea.
Well, again, that is just a fragment. And I told you in one of my earlier podcasts that I think
the whole exodus story is actually a historicized version of an early temple cult ritual where the
high priest was descending into the heavens. So that's what the exodus is about. The exodus is
about this cosmic dance that leads the person to the throne of heaven, which in this case was Mount
Sinai. So, you know, again, I can't prove that, but that's where my study leads me to hypothesize.
You know, this is all heretical to a great deal of Christianity, but, you know, what the hell,
here I am. You're safe here, John. We love it. Well, look, I'm also, I don't have any friends,
because the critics of the Bible, also, it might be terribly get it wrong. And so I'm constantly
arguing against them too. So, you know, you know, so there you have it. I have no friends in either
camp. Here's a neo-Issyrian plaque. This is 8th century BC. This is an Assyrian, you know, near
eastern plaque. And look what's on it. It's a bronze plaque. It was purchased on the black
market. So we don't know the original archaeological where it was found, but it has its finks on it.
Right? There's your serpentine and Leonide figure with eagle wings. It has its finks on it,
who overlooks the scene. And the scene on the left shows the three-tiered Assyrian cosmos that
figure on the bottom leaning on a horse is the underworld goddess. And below her is the underworld
river filled with fish. Above her is a person on an altar or couch with his arm raised up.
And there's two priests dressed in fish robes on either side. And then there's a couple Leonide
headed priests with their legs apart. And that is indicative of movement, of ritual dancing. And
those seven Leonide priests on top are all in the motion of a dance. And so what's happening here?
Well, no one really knows what's happening here. When the plaque was first discovered,
they thought that the person on that altar or couch was being reborn into the next world.
And so here is the person being reborn into the next world, coming out of the underworld waters
on the bottom panel and being led into the upper heavens by seven dancing lions. Okay?
Now, the latest scholarship says, no, it's not a rebirth scene. It's a healing amulet. And the
person on the couch is being healed from the sickness. Well, it doesn't matter because the
cosmography is the same. In order to be healed from the sickness, what does the medical doctor do?
He's using sympathetic magic, in essence. He's leading the soul of the sick into the upper world
where they will fall into the lower world, although find the secrets of healing and his soul
into the upper world where his body will be healed. They're, they're analogically going through the
journey of death and rebirth to heal the person. So the bottom line is the Greeks actually did this.
The temples where they would initiate people into the afterlife, some of them were also
used for healing and the rituals had commonalities to them. And so we have examples of healing
temples where, where these afterlife rituals, part of them are being performed because they're
analogically using the ritual to rebirth the sick. So bottom line is we have these
seven dancing lions. And interestingly enough, I'm going to come back to this. There's a
Near Eastern text which tells us that seven times seven dancing lions lead the soul in
the next world. Well, just keep that in mind. Seven times seven. What number is that?
49. We're going to come back to it.
How old is that clock?
Eighth century BC. So it's still 1st millennium. Okay. Now we're going back to 12th century BC.
And this is in Egyptian too. And here we're looking at rebirth. So there's two pyramids left
and right. There's a solar disk that's rising with a beetle to the upper heavens. So this whole
process is the sun being born out of the underworld into the higher heavens. What's interesting to
note is on the perimeters of the pyramids are seven ram-headed priests and look what they're
doing that they're in the same position as those lions. They're performing your ritual dance
probably around the pyramid. And that is somehow associated with the rebirth of the sun out of
the underworld into the eternal world. Well, it turns out we have in the pyramid texts explicit
instructions for the pharaoh in order to be reborn. He has to be taught the correct dances
by those who are initiated in the next world who know the secret dances. That's in the pyramid text.
So and that's, you know, that's 3rd millennium BCE, right? So this dance to be reborn in the next
world goes back 2,000 years before this tune. All right. So we've got those Brecca Roman balls.
Those are 3rd, 4th century AD. We've got that Neo-Syrian plaque, 8th century BC. Now we have an
Egyptian tune, 12th century BC, but the pyramid texts are telling us that this tradition goes back
much further. Okay, now I'm getting into some really fun stuff, guys, because I am the only
person that I know of who has figured this out. And so, you know, that's just awesome. You know,
I get, I get really excited with you. All right. Okay, so now I'm going to go back to 2,000 BCE.
This is, you know, the textual variants of Gilgamesh, the Epic of Gilgamesh, go back to 1900 BCE.
The oral tradition goes back at least a thousand years before that, probably far before thousands,
right? We're into prehistory. There's a really interesting segment of the Epic of Gilgamesh that
no one has figured out. And because it's, you know, it's mythological and it's strange.
When Gilgamesh goes to the island of Utnipitian to discover the secrets of rebirth,
he goes on this journey. And part of the journey is he has to travel through seven mountains.
And he has to pass an impassable sea. In order to do this, he has 50 helpers given to him by
Aya, the underworld god. And we don't know who these 50 helpers are, but the text tells us
that they sparkle in the sky. The 50 helpers sparkle in the sky and they are led by seven leaders.
And those seven leaders in the text take on sphinx-like attributes. One has the strength
of a bull, one has, you know, a Leonite feature, one has the wings of an eagle, you know, so they
take on sphinx-like attributes. And so suddenly we're starting to see a lot of similarities with
these other myth systems where you have those seven dancers in the Egyptian tomb on the Neo-Syrian
plaque. You have the seven bridesmaids of Sophia in the Acts of St. Thomas. These dancing seven in
the apocrypha such as the apocrypha of Abraham. Abraham ascends through the seven heavens.
He's met at every gate by seeing and dancing angels. And so there are seven gates with seven
guardians of the gate. So this number seven keeps showing up. The ascents into the heavens
keep showing up. It's a heavenly journey that sparkles in the sky. That keeps showing up. The
sphinx keeps showing up in different contexts. And so we go all the way back to the Gilgamesh
tradition and we have all of these pieces that are there back, you know, definitely by the first
millennium, but we're probably in the early second millennium where these pieces exist.
