Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Dave Allen, the analysis of the text of the Testimonium Flavinium by Josephus on Jesus.
He examines the Greek and he's written a long article slash book, so to speak, if you will,
and it will be published in the Journal of Higher Criticism with Dr. Robert McNair Price.
So be on the lookout for that material.
I will be reading large portions of this book that he is bringing out, but I want you to
consider that the Testimonium Flavinium may not be ex nihilo, a interpolation by Christians.
What if there was a negative one?
What if there was one prior to the one that we have now that said something completely different?
Well, there are many scholars out there that propose such a theory.
Dave Allen is on the side of this.
He does think there was a historical Jesus, but this kind of Jesus was radically different
than what Christians will tell you.
Far different than this pacifistic, nice kind loving Jew.
He was more radical than that.
He was more nationalistic than that.
He was more Israelite focused than that.
In fact, we don't even know if he would have been okay with such a Gentile notion that
Paul proposes.
With that being said, today I hope you'll take the time to listen because this is going
to be a complicated video.
But if you have an open mind and consider the evidence, this might radically change your
perception on who Jesus, the man who's spoken of in the New Testament, may have ever been
if he was historical.
And there is about this time a certain man, a sophist, an agitator.
He was one who wrought surprising feats, a teacher of men who revered him with pleasure.
Many of the Judeans and also many of the Galilean element, he led to himself.
He was believed to be a king, for he opposed paying the tax to Caesar.
Something alarmed that the eloquence that had so great an effect on people might lead
to some form of sedition.
And when on an accusation, when on the accusation of the first men among us, Pilate condemned
him to be crucified, many of his followers, the Galileans and Judeans, were slain and
thus checked for the moment.
The movement again broke out with great abundance when it was believed he appeared to them alive.
Those that followed him at first did not cease to revere him.
Their leader in sedition and this tribe has still, to this day, not disappeared, proposed
original of antiquities, Book 18, Chapter 3.
What the version we have today that is not in the Slavonic version goes something like
this.
And there is about this time, Jesus, a wise man, if indeed it is necessary to say that
he is a man, he was one who wrought surprising feats, a teacher of men who received true
things with pleasure, and many Jews and also many of the Greek element, he led to himself,
he was the Christ, and when on the accusation of the first men among us, Pilate, had condemned
him to the cross.
Those who had first loved him did not cease, for he appeared to them on the third day living
again.
The divine prophets have said both these things and myriads of other wonders concerning him,
and even until now, the tribe of Christians named from this man has not been lacking.
In this phrase, Dave Allen brackets the reasoning behind the execution of such a man.
In the first line of the testimony in Flavinium, there is about this time, Jesus, a wise man.
And here is the proposed change, and there is about this time a certain man, a sophist,
and agitator.
Now here are the reasons why this change, if we were going to try and find what the original
was, someone like Robert Eisler proposed.
For the first word in the passage, there arose, Robert Eisler has observed the verb, geni-tai?
Does however occur quite frequently in Josephus, particularly at the beginning of paragraphs,
but the subject of the sentence is then almost without exception a word such as tamut, or
rebellion, or trouble, or some such term.
He then goes on to give many examples of this.
As the passage before and after the testimony in Flavinium are negative, describing tomotes,
and as Eisler observed that many a time Josephus often put in a word describing a tumultuous
situation, I have included the word agitator in the reconstruction.
The interpolation of the testimony in Flavinium in Slavonic Josephus' wars also does not
name Jesus in the passage, but refers to him as there appeared a certain man.
Get that?
In the Slavonic version, it is also an interpolation, but he does not mention Jesus by name.
It is not unusual for Josephus not to know the name of a popular messianic figure.
Case in mind is the Egyptian, who featured in both antiquities and war, yet he only,
he could only call him the Egyptian.
Same goes for the Samaritan Antiquities, Book 18, Chapter 5.
There is a variant found in one of the manuscripts, Codex A of Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History.
This reading offers the pronoun, referring to a certain Jesus.
I have used this word certain in the reconstruction, but instead of a certain Jesus, I have said
a certain man.
This derogatory expression argues against the testimony in Flavinium being made of whole
cloth, ex nihilo.
Chapter 4.
On use of the TF by anti-Christian polemics, written by Dave Allen.
And after such statements, showing his ignorance, even of the number of the apostles, he proceeds
thus.
Jesus, having gathered around him ten or eleven persons of notorious character, the very wickedest
of tax collectors and sailors, fled in company with them from place to place, and obtained
his living in a shameful and important manner.
Let us, to be the best of our power, see what truth there is in such a statement.
It is manifest to us all who possess the Gospel narratives, which Celsus does not appear to
even have read.
Origin complained about what Celsus said in his book, The True Doctrine, as quoted in
Contra-Celsum 162.
From this passage, it shows that Celsus could have gotten his information from somewhere
else other than the Gospels.
He may have had a disapproving look at Christian literature, but he had access to other sources
on the Christians that I will examine here.
I suspect many of these anti-Christian pagans, preserved in the apologetics of Church Fathers,
made use of the original negative TF, before Christians had the power to change the wordings
of the original books.
It was Robert Eisler in his book, The Messiah, Jesus, and John the Baptist, that suggested
the opponents of Justin Martyr and Origen made use of the original TF, therefore making
them a pre-Eusebian witness of the TF.
Also another German scholar, Franz Dorsife, in his book about Luke and Josephus and Tacitus.
He has said that Tacitus also made use of the negative TF, original TF.
It has been suggested that Tacitus got his information about Christians from his friend
Pliny the Younger.
This may be true, but the information Tacitus has about Christians is more that Pliny would
have given him and matches the TF on four points.
It is probable that Tacitus would have received his information from both Pliny and a negative
TF.
In case you're wondering what a negative TF is, an original TF that does not look like
the one we have today.
Not something positive on the character that Christians worship today.
They use this original testimony in Flavinium before it mentioned Christ or Christians.
The original TF was about Jesus and his movement.
It was G.A. Wells that argued that the sources for Tacitus were not independent and therefore
do not corroborate Paul's epistles.
In this chapter, I argue that all the anti-Christian polemic worked off the original TF, and that
Josephus got his information from imperial or more local army records independent of
Christians.
For Josephus was on very good terms with Tacitus and Imperial Secretary Epaphrodites.
Both Tacitus and Lucian are not aware of Jesus' name.
Just calling him Christos, whereas Lucian calls him the Crucified Sophist, calling him
a Sophist suggests Lucian is drawing off a different source than the Gospels, such as
the original TF, that I have reconstructed in the previous chapter.
As discussed in chapter 4, the opponents of the Church Father Apologist all seem to be
working off an original TF, example.
John Martyr answers his opponent, he was no Sophist, but his word was the power of God,
in one apologies and on.
Justin's interlocutor has got his charge that Jesus was described as a Sophist, probably
information that was contained in the TF.
Judas the Galilean was also described as a Sophist, in Josephus Works.
Kelsus is under the impression that Jesus was the leader of a seditious movement as
described by Origen.
Again, Kelsus proceeds, if you should tell them that Jesus is not the Son of God, but
that God is the Father of all, and that he alone ought to be truly worshipped, they would
not consent to discontinue their worship of him who is their leader in the sedition.
Origen denies that Kelsus has just said by adding the following.
Jesus is, then, not the leader of any seditious movement, but the promoter of peace, Contra
Kelsum, 814.
Here are some more examples that will build a picture of how the anti-Christian polemics
viewed the Jesus movements, that a man fastened to a cross on account of his crimes is worshipped
by Christians for they believe not only that he was innocent, but with reason that he was
God.
But on the other hand, the heathens invoke the divine powers of kings raised into gods
by themselves.
They pray to images and beseech their guinea.
Manitius Felix Octavius.
And they worship what they deserve, Manitius Felix.
That Christ, driven out by the Jews, gathered a band of 900 men and committed acts of brigandage.
In the next passage quoted in full below, Kelsus makes the following claims, that Christ
and members of his church have been put to death in a way appropriate to robbers, and
Kelsus also asks, what makes the two robbers crucified with Jesus any different from Jesus?
Kelsus in the next place says, with indescribable silliness, if after inventing defenses which
are absurd, and by which you were ridiculously deluded, you imagine that you really make
a good defense?
What prevents you from regarding those other individuals who have been condemned and have
died a miserable death as greater and more divine messengers of heaven than Jesus?
Now that manifestly and clearly there is no similarity between Jesus who suffered what
is described and those who have died a wretched death on account of their sorcery, or whatever
else be the charge against them.
It is patent to everyone, for no one can point to any facts or any acts of a sorcerer which
turned away souls from the practice of the many sins which prevail among men, and from
the flood of wickedness in the world.
But since this Jew of Kelsus compares him to robbers, and says that any similarly shameless
fellow might be able to say regarding even a robber and murderer whom punishment had
overtaken that such a one was not a robber, but a God, because he predicted to his fellow
robbers that he would suffer such punishment as he actually did suffer, it might in first
place be answered that it is not because he predicted that he would suffer such things
that we entertain those opinions regarding Jesus which lead us to have convinced confidence
in him, as one who has come down to us from God.
In the second place, we assert that this very comparison has been somehow foretold in
the Gospels, since God was numbered with the transgressors by wicked men who desired rather
a murderer, one who for sedition and murder has been cast into prison to be released unto
them, and Jesus to be crucified, and who crucified him between two robbers.
Jesus indeed is ever crucified with robbers among his genuine disciples and witnesses
to the truth, and suffers the same condemnation which they do among men, and we say that
if those persons have any resemblance to robbers, who on account of their piety towards God
suffer all kinds of injury and death, that they may keep it pure and unstained.
According to the teaching of Jesus, when it is clear also that Jesus, the author of such
teaching, is with good reason compared by Kelsus to the captain of a band of robbers.
But neither was he who died for the common good of mankind, nor they who suffered because
of their religion, and alone all men who were persecuted because of what appeared to them
the right way of honoring God, put to death in accordance with justice, nor was Jesus
persecuted without the charge of impiety being incurred by his persecutors, Origen, Contra
Kelsum, 244.
Jesus fits the mold of other self-styled prophets who rose up against Roman maladministration,
those such as Theodos who proclaimed that he would part the Jordan, the Egyptian who
said the walls of Jerusalem would come tumbling down, or the Samaritan who promised to show
the crowds sacred vessels which were buried at Mount Gerizim, where Moses had deposited
them, all discussed in chapter 7.
Are all similar Joshua type movements to the Jesus movement?
Jesus' opponents see him as a magician of some sort.
All these self-styled prophets gathered crowds, promised to overthrow the Romans with gods
and intervention.
Jesus too was seen to perform wonders, all putting him in the same comparative type as
these religious resistant leaders.
Was Christ not a magician?
But lest anyone should meet us with the question, what should prevent that he whom we call Christ,
being a man born of men, performed what we call his mighty works by magical art, and
by this appeared to be the Son of God.
We will now offer proof, not trusting mere assertions, but being of necessity persuaded
by those who prophesied of him before these things came to pass.
For with our own eyes we behold things that have happened and are happening just as they
were predicted, and this will, we think, appear even to you the strongest and truest evidence.
And from Tritulean, as then under the force of their pre-judgment, they had convinced
themselves from his lowly guise that Christ was no more than man, it followed from that
as a necessary consequence that they should hold him a magician from the powers which
he displayed, Tritulean Apology.
And from Kelsus, continuing to pour abuse upon Jesus as one who on account of his impiety
and wicked opinions was so to speak hated by God, he asserts that these tenets of his
were those of a wicked and God-hated sorcerer.
Origin, contrast Kelsum, 1.71.
The anti-Christian polemic comes close to recovering the historical Jesus.
It shows how a messianic title going back to the historic Jesus as seen from these three
ancient quotes, John 6.15, Jesus knowing that they intended to come and make him king by
force withdrew again to the mountain by himself.
Antiquities, 17.10.8, and now Judea was full of robberies, and as the several companies
of seditious light upon any one of them to heed them, he was created a king immediately
in order to do mischief to the public.
Let us now look at more evidence from Tacitus.
The manuscript tradition for annals is incomplete, ending around 66 A.D.
well before the resolution of the Jewish Revolt and the destruction of Jerusalem.
Tacitus histories is likewise incomplete, ending in early 70 A.D.
when the Jewish Revolt and the destruction of Jerusalem were complete.
Tacitus histories is likewise incomplete, ending in early 70 A.D.
when it is believed to have recorded events through to 96 A.D.
Back in 1861, Jacob B. Reyes noticed that Sulpicious Severus, a Christian writer born
in the mid-fourth century, used Tacitus as a source in his best known work, Chronicle
or Sacred History.
In 1903, James D. Dunn suggests that the citation may come from the lost portion annals, noting
that it breaks off in Book 16, when his account had reached the year 66 before the outbreak
of the Jewish War.
I go with Louis Feldman, myself, where he says most scholars have adopted the suggestion
of Bernays that Sulpicious Source was none other than a lost portion of Tacitus histories.
The gap in Tacitus histories is thought to be preserved in Sulpicious Severus, Chronicle
236-7.
This piece that is preserved is known as Tacitus Fragment 2.
Lapote makes the case in his paper that Sulpicious used Tacitus as a source.
Evidence takes the form of the discovery of a significant statistical relationship among
the following three words.
The metaphor stirps branch descendants used to describe the Christian infragment and Nazarene
describing the New Testament sect associated with Vax.
The connecting link among also as well as the common source for the three words listed
above appears to be in Hebrew Nestor branch.
Evidence apparently influenced by Isaiah 11-1, which both translate into stirps.
The present study, Lapote's paper, demonstrates that Fragment 2 is a primary historical source
that in all probability correctly identifies Fragment 2, Christiani, as the Latin name
for a group of major participants in the first Jewish revolts against Rome of 66-73 CE.
In addition, we shall see that the Hebrew name for at least a portion if not all of
this group was probably Netsarene Nazarenes.
Chronicle 236-7.
It is reported that Titus first deliberated by summoning a council of war as to whether
to destroy a temple of such workmanship, for it seemed proper to some that a consecrated
temple distinguished above all that is human should not be destroyed, as it would serve
as a witness to a Roman moderation, whereas its destruction would represent a perpetual
brand of cruelty.
In 230-7.
But others, on the contrary, disagreed including Titus himself.
They argued that the destruction of the temple was a number one priority in order to destroy
completely the religion, Perseverus, Tacitus, or another classical author, would have used
the word superstition.
Compare history in Annals 1544 of the Jews and the Christiani, for although these religions
superstitions are conflicting, they nevertheless developed from the same origins, the Christiani
arose from the Jews, with the root removed, the branch, or stirps, is easily killed.
Josephus gives a parallel of this account in War 623.
But this is a biased account in favor of Titus.
Perseverus has probably preserved Tacitus less biased account.
Lapau doesn't think the Christians in Tacitus are the same Christians as Paul's Christians,
yet they are.
No Christian can accept a rebellious beginning, and as such, many Lacune exist, such as the
Caligula Claudius gap in the Annals, that originally described them as rebels.
Edwin Johnson has said in his book, and I think he's saying antiquities, Mater, that
the Romans used the term Christiani as the name for Jewish messianist.
He brilliantly explains that Roman commentators at the time simply named any messianic Jews
as Christiani.
The passage above also explains why the sectarian group at Qumran were destroyed after the Roman
Jewish war.
All messianist who were so troublesome during the war were destroyed by the Romans.
This is where Lapau has gone wrong thinking he was commenting on the actual sect instead
of just all Jewish messianist in general.
This in turn also suggests that the Jesus messianic group had rebellious beginnings.
Lapau is right in seeing how these Roman commentators describing these messianic Jews, it should
be noted that Tacitus' description in Annals 1544 of the Christiani superstition as dangerous,
sinister and evil, etc. and Suetonius' portrayal of the Christiani in Nero 162 as following,
a new and dangerous superstition.
Pliny the Younger, who was on about the actual Jesus sect, accuses them of being infected
by this contagious superstition.
This of course makes sense of Suetonius, so-called mention of Jews in life of Claudius.
In 1825, about a Crestus that got thrown out of Rome during the reign of Claudius.
He did not mean the Jesus movement as some apologist scholars equate this Crestus, a
common slave name, with Christ, but Jewish messianism in general.
Jesus would hardly be living in Rome in 49 CE.
Jewish messianism and religious-religio-political revolt go hand in hand.
There were other expulsions of Jews reported, 139 BCE and 19 CE as reported in Tiberius 36.
He abolished foreign cults in Rome, particularly the Egyptian and Jewish, forcing all citizens
who had embraced these superstitions to burn their religious vestments and other accessories.
This makes more sense as Jesus movements were hardly in Rome during the reign of Claudius.
Acts 18-2, where Paul is said to have met two of these expelled messianic Jews.
Acts associating with these religious-political rebellious types just shows the common traits
between early Christianity and rebellious Jewish messianist.
As Edwin Johnson comments, Tacitus could have known nothing of the destruction between
believers in a Messiah and believers in a Messiah Jesus.
In writing of the event of the year 70, he enables us to understand how messianic expectation
shaped itself to the thought of a Roman.
And our explanation then of the passage in Tacitus is that the term Crestiani had for
him a value altogether different from that which it has long borne for us and the history
of the world since that great messianic allusions faded.
Messianist who were inflamed with those ardent and passionately confident hopes of the downfall
of the Roman Empire and of the establishment of a kingdom of Haggoy and the elect which
are reflected in the book of Enoch in the Apocalypse.
This of course shows that Roman commentators did not mean what we think they meant when
they used the term Crestiani.
They did not mean Christianity but Jewish messianism and the type they meant was the
troublesome type, the type that gave them so much trouble during the Roman-Jewish war
later the Christian movement adopted this term in the second century but were originally
known as the Nazareans.
Tacitus omits the name Jesus so if he was using my reconstructed TF this would be consistent
as Josephus we know through textual criticism did not seem to know Jesus name either.
Helen Bond in her latest book the first biography of Jesus says that the Gospel of Mark accounts
for the era of persecution that hangs so heavily over this work.
Mark 417, 834, 1037-40 and 139-13.
Persecution that broke out brutally and unexpectedly under Nero in 65 CE and might well have continued
to threaten the community of Christ followers after the war a knowledge of the Flavian triumph
celebrated in Rome in 71 might also explain the anti triumph motif that several scholars
have detected in Mark's account of the crucifixion.
Josephus sources some of the well-known figures that fell to get a mention in Josephus first
book war made it into his later book Antiquities.
These figures were not major players in the lead up into the Roman Jewish war in 66-70 CE.
By the time Josephus was writing Antiquities these same figures that were not thought of
off hand were now included by Josephus who had by then full access to the imperial records.
Josephus was very good friends with Titus and made full use of the imperial secretary at
Parforditis. The level of detail that Josephus knew of Caligula's assassination the plot
and its aftermath could have only been known from imperial records.
This is an advantage that Josephus had over even other imminent Roman historians such
as Tacitus who claimed he did not have access to imperial records histories 440.
Vanst Vorst argued that Tacitus did not get his information from Christians as can be
seen for his contempt for Christians. He also did not know Jesus's name.
Tacitus using my reconstructed TF would easily explain this. Van Vorst has suggested that
Tacitus could have gotten his information about Christians and Nero's fire from archives
of the Senate. One such figure the Samaritan who only got mentioned in Josephus second
book Antiquities would have used such records as Acta Palate as a source.
Another similar figure where Josephus would not have thought of while composing wars was
Jesus the Nazarian and here too Josephus would have had to go to the Acta Palate for his
information. By the time the church fathers were writing they acknowledged the Acta Palate
but made up completely what was in them. They would not have had access to these and
just made incredible claims that Pilate was reporting the divinity of Jesus and that he
had resurrected martyr 1 Apology 35 to Tolean Apology 521.
The anti-Christian polemics also reworked the real Acta Palate making Eusebius comment
that these Acta Palate reported by anti-Christian pagans were forged for their propaganda. These
anti-Christian pagans would have worked from their original Acta Palate to create their
particular polemics. What we have now is Christian Acts of Pilate known as the Gospel of Nicodemus
a pious forgery to counteract what was the original reworked Acts Pilate but now destroyed.
These were seen as a polemic against Acts of Pilate so the stories of the gospels were
transposed onto the new Acts of Pilate so that it was thoroughly reworked even though
thoroughly reworked there is still evidence of the previous Acts of Pilate released by
Emperor Maximum that is contained in the Gospel of Nicodemus. Passages such as where
Pilate informs the Jews that Jesus heals by the God of the Skeppes, Pilate saith and what
things are they that he doeth and would destroy the law? The Jews say we have had a law and
we have a law that we should not heal any man on the Sabbath but this man of his evil
deeds hath healed the lame and the bent, the withered and the blind and the paralytic,
the dumb and them that were possessed on the Sabbath day. Pilate saith unto them by what
evil deeds they say unto him he is a sorcerer and by Belzebub the prince of the devils he
casteth them out devils and they are all subject unto him. Pilate saith unto them this is not
to cast out devils by an unclean spirit but by the God of Skeppes it shows even the Christianizing
of the Acts of Pilate still left in some of the pagan bits thus it looks like the Maximum
Acts of Pilate rewritten. We saw the same thing happen in regard to the TF. The Emmaus
narrative in Luke was used in the reworking in original negative TF, C Chapter 4. So to
sum up for Josephus, to include the minor figures in his later book Antiquities would
have had to consult the imperial records. Being the Flavian footstool, he would have
had full access to these. For such minor figures as the Samaritan or Jesus the Nazarean, he
would have had to consult the Acts of Pilate no longer existing. The early church fathers
acknowledged the Acts of Pilate but made up what was in them. Meanwhile the anti-Christian
polemics made use of their version of Acts of Pilate to which Eusebius complained and
protested. It was from the time of Eusebius that Christians had full power of the books
and must have destroyed these damaging Acts of Pilate. A new counter forgery, Acts of
Pilate, Gospel of Nicodemus, was composed as a counter narrative. It is suspected they
simply reworked the pagan Acts of Pilate. In turn, the pagan Acts of Pilate would have
reworked the original Acts of Pilate. It was the original Actae Pilate that Josephus would
have made use of in composing his history of it for Antiquities. This would argue for
an independent source for Christianity. This puts Jesus' historicity on the same level
as all those other Messianic figures found in Josephus works. I think it is very plausible
there was an original TF that described Jesus as a seditious leader as attested in the anti-Christian
polemic. This is what Eusebius was covering up. This is the reason for the interpolation. Paul
attests the crucifixion. Granted, he doesn't attest under Pilate, as Weely proved Josephus'
passage as having existed in the previous chapter. Even if we can't use the reconstruction
as evidence, we can use the fact that it existed as a negative original. Even without reconstruction,
it is in the middle of the Pilate passages, and therefore it can be used for crucifixion
under Pilate. I believe Josephus got his information from other than Christians, just like he probably
got his information from other than Samaritans about the Samaritan. Josephus was very good
friends with Titus and had the full use of the Imperial Secretary of Paphroditus. Christians,
Samaritans, Sicari, or any other such Messianic group were well below Josephus' feet. His
consultations would have been the records. These anti-Christian polemics of Jesus using
being a seditious leader can even be seen in the Gospel of Luke. As we see in Luke 23, Jesus was
considered a dangerous enough to raise a sedition, Luke 23 verses 2 through 3. The Sanhedrin says to
Pilate, We have found this man subverting our nation. He opposes payments of taxes to Caesar
and claims to be Messiah, a king. So Pilate asked Jesus, Are you the king of the Jews?
You have said so, Jesus replied. In Luke 23 14, Pilate said, You brought me this man,
as one who was inciting the people to rebellion. As was common for many Messianic leaders,
see next chapter, to raise a crowd was a dangerous occupation and usually would end up getting you
executed. This is all reflected in the Gospel of John, John 11, 47 through 50. Then the chief
priest in the Pharisees called a meeting of the Sanhedrin. What are we accomplishing? They asked.
Here is this man performing many signs. If we let him go on like this,
everyone will believe in him. And then the Romans will come and take away both our temple and our
nation. Then one of them named Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year spoke up. You know nothing
at all. You do not realize that it is better for you that one man die for the people than that the
whole nation perish. I suppose Jesus being a small time resistor, temple cleansing, could see the
writing on the wall. Rather than having it planned, I see Jesus movement as reactionary as he lived
in a bad times. I am not placing any judgment value on the term seditious leader. Jesus lived
during very bad times. If you study the position of the testimonium phlebitium, a load of unarmed
Jews were slaughtered by Pilate's men. In modern times, you too sang a song, Sunday,
Bloody Sunday, about the killing of a load of unarmed Irish protesters, which started a 30
year guerrilla war. I see the Jesus movement as the same type of reactionary resistant movement,
where Jesus got crucified for sedition, king of the Jews. The kiss of Judas is only the dramatic
storytelling of the gospels. The only dealings the Roman administration would have had with a
movement like Jesus movement is through the payment of informers, whether Judas is a literary
invention or not. That is not what he represents. Many scholars today think that Ascariot means
man of the karyoth as the ice. In Hebrew means ish, implying Judas was karyothish. Given there
was no village karyoth at the time of Jesus, it is more likely that this is a Greek rendering
of the Sakari, an assassin group who had small daggers under the clothing on the pretense of a
sacrifice. This implying the name meaning man of the daggers. As discussed below, many more
disciples had descriptive names associated with the zealots. There are many hints in the gospels
that some of Jesus followers were zealot resistant types. As Carmichael said, the echoes of the zealots,
for instance, see page 37, is arresting. One Simon the Canaanian in the list of the 12 appointed by
Jesus is mentioned, Mark 318. The two sons of Zavdai, John and Jacob, are called sons of rage,
echoing the violence associated with the kingdom of God, activist. Also, Simon the Rock is called
Baryon, as though it meant Baryona or son of Yona. But Baryon meant rebel, outlaw, a political or
social outcast living on the outside, away from the settled areas controlled by the state.
I'll unpack all these points raised above. Simon Canaanian, Mark 318, reference Matthew 10.
Has Simon Canaanian as one of the disciples, the Hebrew word Kana,
mean zealot, and thus modern translations now translated as Simon the Zealot? Luke 615,
Acts 113, had him as Simon the Zealot all along. Sons of Zebedee, James and John the Sons of Zebedee
were known as Boanergies, Aramaic for Sons of Thunder. This name was a reflection of their
violence seen in Luke 9, 53 through 56. Simon the Rock, Marcus Bakimul, asks in his paper,
was Simon Peter a son of Yona or a terrorist? The Greek for Simon's name is clumsy in Matthew 1617.
Shimon Simon is Hebrew, Bar is Aramaic for son, and Jonah for Jonah is Greek form of the Hebrew
name Yona. However, in the Greek text, the name reads as Baryona. We know this word has a connotation
for outlaws from the Talmud. This word has no resonance in Greek. It has a precise meaning
in Aramaic, fugitive or outlaw. In the Talmud, Baryona and its plural, Baryonim, are used to
describe the zealots who fought against Rome. So to sum up, we see the anti-Christian polemics
having an independent source to the gospels. That source I suspect was the original TF.
Josephus, I suspect, got his information from Imperial Records as he was well in with Titus.
The original TF was the corroborating evidence for Jesus before it was overwritten. This puts Jesus
on the same level of historicity as all those other Messianic figures found in Josephus works.
Nazareth, Nazarian question. The most convincing aspect of Jesus' historicity is that he belonged
to a Messianic group of Nazareans, which the later strata of the New Testament literature
tried to cover up by saying Jesus was from Nazareth. As Bruce Chilton noticed in the
gospels handling of the term Nazarean, but more is going on here. Jesus is rarely called of Nazareth
or from Nazareth. He is usually called Nazarean or Nazarene. Why the adjective and why the uncertainty
in spelling? The Septuagint shows us that there were many different transliterations of the Nazarite
that reflect uncertainty as to how to convey the term in Greek. Some of the variants are in fact
very close to what we find used to describe Jesus in the gospels. There are two possible origins
for the word Nazarean. Either explanation would denote a sect as opposed to a geographical location
as the origin. First explanation was given by J.S. Kennard who sees Nazarites as a title for the
separated coming from number six. This would be true if the derivation of Nazarean had the
Aramaic and Hebrew base in T.Z.R. Nazar meaning consecrated or set apart. So this also means
to keep watch or guard with the term Nazarite, the Greek letter Zeta, is rendering the Hebrew
letter Zain or Zain. So the base is Nazar as opposed to Nazar for Nazarean, where confusing
the same Greek letter Zeta rendering the Hebrew letter Tzari, the phrase keepers of the covenant
or guardians of the covenant Nazareem Habri, appears repeatedly as a sectarian name in the
Dead Sea Scrolls. In Aramaic the collective plural word for the keepers as in jailkeeper
or guardian is Nazareem. All variant transliterations of Nun, Sadi, Resh, Mem compare Hebrew, Shamri,
a root word for Samaritans. The New Testament Book of Acts admits that this was a sectarian name
Nazarius with the Omega in Greek showing it was derived from Aramaic Nazareem and not from the
place name Nazareth. The second, and I think is more likely explanation for the origin of the word
Nazarean, is given by Lapop, who sees the name derived from this Jewish messianic group comes from
Isaiah 11-1, which connects the Hebrew word Netzer branch to the Greek transliterated word
Nazareem. This word Netzer comes from the exact same Hebrew base for keepers as discussed above.
Hebrew did not have vowels so words could only be interpreted from their context. Netzer branch
was used as a term for the royal descendants of the king of David, so important to all Jewish
messianic groups. For me this is the more probable origin of the word Nazarean as the messianism
Jewish groups claimed to descend it from the house of David, Isaiah 11-1. Used Netzer to refer to a
Mashiach Messiah. William Smith has seen this term as belonging to earlier strata of the New
Testament. Nazarean, this occurs repeatedly in apparently the oldest layers of the gospel story.
Without any suggestion of tenancy, especially in Acts, and more than all it is used in the plural
as the name of the new religionist, Acts 24-5. Tortolius described Paul as a ringleader of the
heresy of the Nazareans. It seems impossible that this name should have become their vulgar
designation unless it had been a very early and important designation. In Mark the epithet
that is so distinctive that it is put in the mouth of the maid as the name of the arrested one.
Thou also waste with the Nazarean Jesus, Marks 1467. All this indicates that this epithet
was from the start highly distinctive and familiar. A name in itself which would be passing strange
if it was indeed derived from the most obscure village otherwise known. Of course the gospel
Mark suggests Capernaum as Jesus' hometown and only once mentions Nazareth at 119,
an interpolation as discussed below. Capernaum was really the hometown of Jesus in the gospel of
Mark. Mark 2-1, when Jesus returned to Capernaum after some days, it became known that he was at
home. Mark 2-15, while he was at table in his house. Mark 3-20, he came home. Dr. Robert
McNair Price has seen the reason for this cover-up and why the gospel of Matthew did cover it up.
A reason why Jesus' epithet was changed, Christians could no longer imagine their Lord had
himself been simply a believer, i.e. a Nazarean like themselves. So they inferred that his
famous epithet had denoted he had held from Nazareth. Schoenfeld saw the main reason for
this change. The name he bears, Jesus the Nazarean, has northern sectarian implications. A cunning
cover-up for the Nazarite is to make him from Nazareth. Mark 1-9 does not say Jesus from Nazareth
only that he walked from there. In fact, his hometown in Mark is Capernaum. Mark 2-1.
Both Luke and Matthew copying an earlier MSS of Mark do not have Nazareth, as Turton says
Mark 1-9 reference to Nazareth does not appear in the parallel passages in Matthew or Luke.
In Luke, Jesus goes to the baptism from Galilee, but there is no Nazareth.
Luke's evidence is even more compelling, given according to Ehrman, that the birth narratives,
chapter 1 and 2, are later additions to Luke. Therefore Luke had not already introduced Jesus
as being from Nazareth. Turton goes on to say, this is the only use of the word Nazareth in Mark.
All other usages are a Greek word, Nazarenos, generally translated as Nazarene. Nazarene can
mean either a sectarian designation or of the location of Nazara, but it cannot mean of Nazareth.
As Dr. Richard Carrier noted, there is no good reason Jesus was called a Nazarene, Matthews 26-71,
Luke 18-37, John 18-5-7, and 1919. And as followers Nazarenes, other than that,
this term originally was unconnected with Nazareth and originally was a sect, Nazareos
has no grammatical connection to Nazar, Nazareth, Nazareth. Nazor and Nazar are completely different
roots. Matthew knows no other spelling than Nazareos, and he was using Mark as a source.
Matthew tries to cover up Jesus' association with some pre-Christian insurrectionist sect of Nazorians,
but has retained the use of the term in his gospel, luckily for us. He can do this as he has
redefined the term to mean it has somebody coming from Nazareth. Therefore, he didn't have to stop
using the term Nazareos. He does it in the verse here, Matthew 2-22-23. Having been warned in a
dream, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, and he went and lived in the town called Nazareth.
So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets that he would be called Nazarene.
The reason he assigns is unreal. It is not found anywhere in the Tanakh that through the prophets
he shall be called Nazarene. As we have seen, Matthew is in downplaying Jewish messianism,
in downplaying the bad associated connotation of the term Nazarene, he redefines the origin of the
term to that of a person coming from Nazareth. This leads to the further puzzling question.
If Jesus, as the gospels say, chose Peter as the leader of the church, why were the Nazarenes
after Jesus' death led not by Peter but by James, a person who is not even mentioned in the gospels
as a follower of Jesus in his lifetime. This is the kind of contradiction that, if logically
considered, can lead us to the true picture of the history of Jesus' movement in Jerusalem,
as opposed to the picture which the church, or the later church, wished to propagate.
As an interesting side note, the original version of the story looks like it didn't have Nazareth,
something happened in Capernaum first, and Mark still retains mention of it
as for the topography. Another clue Nazareth originally had nothing to do with any of the
first story is the help that is held in Luke. The cliff works better at Sephorus.
There is a tradition in the Talmud of Jesus preaching in the streets of Sephorus, Babylonian
Avada Zara, C Chapter 10. It doesn't work for the hills of Nazareth, Luke 4, 20-27.
The translations of Nazarene and Nazarene are the same as the translations for the Samaritans,
Samaritan and Hebrew. That's a transliteration, Shamarim, guardians, keepers, watchers of the
Torah. We have another interesting, similar sect operating around Samaria and not Judah,
that of the Mandians and the descendants of John the Baptist group. This all plays in well with
the propaganda of the Good Samaritan and Luke's Gospel. It's worth ending this chapter with a
quote from Dr. Robert McNair Price, 27. Despite the rendering of the many English Bible translations,
Jesus is very seldom called Jesus from Nazareth. In the Gospels, Mark calls him Jesus the Nazarene,
as does Luke twice. In Mark 1, 24, 10, 47, 14, 67, 16, 6, Luke 4, 34, 24, 9. While Matthew, John,
and Acts always call him Jesus the Nazarene, Matthew 26, 71, John 18, 7, 1919, Acts 2, 22,
3, 6, 4, 10, 6, 14, 22, 8, 26, 9. With Luke using this epithet once, Luke 18, 37. The Bartimaeus
episode, where he has placed Mark's Nazarene with it, the difference between Nazarene and Nazorian,
does give us reason to suspect that the familiar epithet does not after all denote Jesus'
healing from the village called Nazareth. The Nazarene would imply that, but not the Nazorian.
That seems to be a sect name, equivalent to the Essene or the Hasid. Epiphanius,
an early Christian cataloguer of heresies, mentions a pre-Christian sect called the Nazorians,
their name meaning the keepers of the Torah, or possibly of the secrets.
See Mark 4, 11. To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but to those outside all
is by way of a parable. These Nazorians were the heirs supposedly of the neoprimitist, primitivist
sect of the richabytes descending from the times of Jeremiah, Jeremiah 35, 1-10. They were rather
like gypsies, itinerant carpenters. Nazorian occurs once unambiguously in the New Testament itself
as a sect designation in Acts 24-5, a ring leader of the sect of the Nazorians. It should be clear
that such a scenario, while quite naturally historically is offensive to the Christological
beliefs of some, since it presupposes Jesus was a disciple, that he needed to learn religion,
how could that be if he were the incarnate son of God? Harold Bloom, the anxiety of influence,
Oxford University Press 1997 describes the anxiety of influence as the reluctance to
acknowledge the degree to which one's distinctives are owned to one's predecessors.
And then he gives many sources at the end of his chapter. There's a lot there ladies and gentlemen,
and this is all based off of the negative testimony in Flavinium, the TF. And there are many
references that are really strange, and I scratch my head with good friends like James
Stevens Valiant, Robert M. Price. I talk to him personally all the time about this historical
Jesus, and he wrestles in his mind and says this would be the best arguments for the historical
Jesus. There are a lot of strange messianic extremist, if you will, what we would call today,
groups who believed their Messiah was truly coming back soon, and that he would bring the end,
an apocalyptic, if you will, end, that they were going to defeat the enemies of God. And is Jesus
one of these? Is Jesus part of one of these groups? Did Josephus not know his name like he
didn't know the Egyptian or the Samaritan? And what if he is reconstructing, or to some degree,
there is an original testimony in Flavinium, where that's located, where it was negative?
Why are all these pagans coming up with these ideas when they are talking against
Justin Marder and Origen, the arguments from Kelsus and such, looking at the historians,
Tacitus and Suetonius and Pliny, it just makes me wonder, is there something being painted over?
We know Christians, and when the mythicists argue for the non-historicity of Jesus,
we know that Christians didn't have what we have as the testimony in Flavinium
prior to Eusebius, or in that area of time, because they would have used this as an argument
against those as a polemic, if you will. The people arguing, like Kelsus, they would have
referenced this. So I wonder if they kept getting badgered with this location of this reference,
and people saw it, and finally when they had the power, like Eusebius, they saw this and said,
we can't keep getting badgered with this, our Lord being a Sophist, our Lord being this
man of sedition and whatnot, we need to remove this and take this man and make him into what we
believe him to be. I mean, we know cognitive dissonance plays a hard role when you believe in
things, so thank you for taking this much time to listen to this. I'm sorry if I mispronounce
certain names, I'm learning, I'm gonna figure these names out, I'm no scholar, but David,
Alan's a good friend of mine, and he believes there was a historical Jesus, Dr. Price is a great
friend of mine, and he believes there wasn't, or most likely that there wasn't, or we don't have
good evidence to believe that there was. This is really a good wrestling match in my mind,
listening to his paper here, you guys will find in the Journal of Higher Criticism,
in the months to come, and when it gets released, I will stick it down in the description of this
video, so right now it will be absent, but maybe by the time you see this clip, it'll be there,
and I'm gonna go ahead and play a little bit of my conversation with Dave Allen,
please bear with him, he has a southern Irish accent from the southern Ireland,
and it's a strong accent, so it's very hard to understand what he articulates in some places,
I hope you can keep up with this, thank you Dave Allen for letting me read from your work,
and thank you Dr. Price for allowing me to read something that will be shown in the
Journal of Higher Criticism in days to come, don't forget, we are MythVision.
Dave Allen, joining me here, MythVision, Dave, where are you from, what is your accent?
This is south of Ireland, so a place called Cork in Ireland, that's where I'm from.
Okay, what is the name of your book?
It's just a partosis of a King Messiah, but it's kind of an awkward name, I might have to change
this, because I just find ordinary people to read it, and maybe that didn't know that I just
said the name out, I think it sounds a bit too up in the air, you know? Yeah, yeah, I understand.
Maybe Derek can think of a name, because you're a more down-to-earth guy, you know?
I'll try, I'll try, I'll help you. So would a King Messiah anyway, to be honest, you know?
I think that it's in the vein, I mean Chapter 5, which is what you sent me.
Yeah, I only sent you one chapter, because that was the most fun chapter of the book, you know?
Yeah, but I can see there's a lot of information. Another chapter there was released on Dr. Bob's
Journal, Chapter 4, you know, reconstructing the TF. But what was wrong with that was that, you know,
I didn't take a chance, and the TF sounded very, you know, vacuous, as Dr. Bob said, you know?
So I forgot to put in the reason why he was crucified, and I forgot to put in what kind of an
organization he had joined, which is a vicious one, like, you know? Yeah.
Yeah, so for those of you watching, Dave has an interesting theory where he is suggesting
Christianity, or the term Christianity, is actually a term that was always designated to
rebellious groups. It means messianists, right, which are the United, right? These guys who followed
a messiah figure, you know? They all, they all came, they all believed that this fellow would
rise up from among themselves and lead them against these horrible Romans that were
taxing them and, and starving them. There was famines and everything, and, and so, you know,
like, they were downtrodden people, like, and they, they looked into their own
Bibles or whatever they are, and they were on his scrolls, I suppose, and they thought that,
you know, like, God is going to help us, and he's going to rise somebody up from among us,
and they're going to, he's going to lead us, and God is going to join with us, and we're going
to beat these terrible Romans, you know? Yeah. It was actually an incident, actually, just before
the Jewish war, where, where one of the Romans, he went to capture the city, and he decided to turn
back before the war, and it looked like God had intervened, and he made him turn back, you know?
As, you know, they're very prestigious people, like, so anything like that would rise them,
you see? Like, God is on our side, like, you know, if they, if they win one battle or whatever,
like, you know? Yeah. So in the Bible, in the Bible, in the Bible, they had to hold up,
was it, you know, Moses's hens, or, you know, so that they'd win their battle, and his hens got
turd, and they said, fine, you know, so they put two sticks underneath them, and they, these are
very superstitious people, like, you know? Yeah. Absolutely. You can ask the way, you can ask the
way, of course. Oh, the term Christianity, you see, there was a fellow there, a, a, a, a long
go about, Johnson, was his name, he wrote a book called Echo and Matter, right? And he was the
first fellow to suggest that Christianity, the Christianity, was the only term by the Romans,
to me, messianists, you know? And, and the way the Romans described the messianists, like, they were
all superstitious, dangerous, rebellious people, like, you know, they threw them out of Rome, sure?
And they were rebelling everywhere, like, you know, like, they were, I suppose they were lower
classes, like, and if there was any bit of trouble, they'd be rising, like, you have
rising there in America, you know? Yeah. Yeah. So let me ask you this. You, you, you talk about,
and the way I like how you did this is, you talk about there being an original testimonium
flaminium, however, you don't take the mythicist position, the mythicists say, while it's all
fabricated, you say, no, there was something there, but it was not the Jesus, yeah, people
were overwritten, yeah, overwritten. Yeah, even, like, I mean, when I came into this subject, like,
I was reading Carrier and Price and, you know, and they're very interesting histories, you know?
Like, I do, I do love that history. And just that, the more I looked into it, you know, and you see,
I started, so I started studying the TF a bit more seriously, like, you know, and
there was somebody suggested there, this girl here, she'd done a great dissertation on it,
her name was Wheelie. And I mean, she even responded to Ken Olson as well, that there was
certain phrases in it that used to be, it would never have used to describe Jesus, because, you
know, they weren't, they weren't great descriptions of them, even in the ones that are there, like,
you know, the term for miracle there is strange works in Greek, you know, it wouldn't be a first
choice term to describe Jesus, like, so there's a word here, and they are stuck inside that TF
that used to be, it would not have used if he made it up from scratch, you know? Right, right.
And you say that you used examples, you used other people, yeah, tons. And then I started
reading Eusler as well, and the reason he is buried, you see, all these people, their scholarship is
buried, because, you know, like, the Christians don't like the fact that Jesus was a rebel, like,
you know, and they don't like that fact, so all this, and SFG Brandon, like, they try to bury
him as well, like, you know, and Eusler, they call him, you know, like, that he was gun cuckoo,
all together, they talk, because, you know, he suggests that Jesus was a rebel, and, you know,
it doesn't suit the religious, you know, so, you know, these guys are going to get buried,
and I've not dealt with my book to get buried, you know.
Hey, that's why I have this show, you know, I want to bring...
You're the man, you're the man, the whole reality, you know?
Yeah, I try, I try. I love what you wrote, you bring up Suetonius, Tacitus, Pliny, you talk about
you even use calcis, you use all of it, all of it.
He's great, you know, you know, these guys that are, they were anti-Christians, you know,
they wrote commentary against the Christian religion, like, you know, but, you see, they were
bringing up very uncomfortable truths, and so they had to write books against these people, like,
you know, and the reason they had to write books against these people is because they didn't control
the books in Rome, and there was a library there, any pagan could ever look at them, you know, and
they could see, oh, the TF, look, he's on here, bloody rebel, like, you know, we got Crusader
for a sedition, like, you know, and they couldn't change that, so they had to write these great,
big books against them, and all that kind of stuff, they didn't have to use Sebeus because
they control the books, so they didn't have to, they didn't have to write against them anymore.
Yeah, now they are in control.
But they wanted to control before use of Sebeus, so they had to write all these refutations,
you know, yeah, and, yeah, and these refutations contain so much history that people are not
aware of, like, you know, and a lot of people, they tell me the statistics are useless because
they're too late, but I told the fellow there before that evidence is like a throne to matter,
the evidence gets splattered all over the place, you know, like,
you see, Tacitus, he used Josephus in many places, and there was this even in
Carlson, he'd done a theory there that he also used it for the TF, you know, he used the TF
for writing his thing, you know, and what I put in the chapter there was,
okay, Tacitus got some of the information after any, like, who were those bloody Christians,
like, you know, and, but he had a lot more information than he had, you know, and information
seemed to match the TF in four places, that was, so that's how they noticed that, you know,
and all these anti-Christian, or anti-Christian commentators, they were walking off something,
and that was the TF. So you believe that Kelsus was actually using the Testimonium?
Yeah, he was using that, and so were all the others as well, like, you know, Tacitus, he didn't
know Jesus' name, and the reconstruction I have of the TF does not have Jesus' name, because
in the Slavonic, it says everything about Jesus except his name, you know, it has a big whole
Lord, but he didn't seem to know his name, or is that because the Slavonic seems to be walking off
an earlier exemplar of the Greek, that's before Eusebius, you know, it's destroyed with Christian
glass, but there is that one bit preserved that they didn't name Jesus. So in my reconstruction,
I says a certain man, you know, and Tacitus, he has no clue what his name is, so he says, he was
called Christus, and Lucian, he wrote a, he wrote a comedy about the Christians, and he just called
them the crucified sassists, because he didn't know his name, like, you know, and they were all
walking off the TF, and that's why, you know, that's why, you see, these guys have that, like, you know,
yeah. This is interesting, and it comes so close to describing the historical Jesus, I mean. Oh,
yeah, yeah, you see, in Buddhism there, they say, be careful not to go to the source of the stream,
because you might like, you might like what you find, you know, and, you know, the deeper
fellas get into this, maybe they don't like what they find, so they throw the books away or whatever,
you know, they don't want to bury into this kind of information, like, you know, especially if you
are a Christian or whatever, like, you might want to know, so you put in that, oh, we can't use the
TF, we can't reconstruct the TF, because, you know, there's no way that was in it, you know,
yeah, so you hear that, you know, they can mean the TF is grand, but you can't use it, you know.
For people who are wondering, the TF is the Testimonium Flavinium, it's the passage
where he mentions Jesus, which has obviously been hijacked by Christians.
Oh, well it was, by the time you were in Eusebius, and after, we, Lydian was brilliant, because
she proved that even after Eusebius, they changed it again, you know, they kept changing
that column, and what Wheeley does, she brings it back to what Eusebius originally wrote,
and from there, we can take it a bit better, you know, you can get it reconstructed a bit
better if you can at least get it back to that, you know, yeah. Interesting, interesting. So
how you get a pre-Eusebian witness then, is those other scholars, German scholars came up with that,
you know, like, Eusler, no, he was, he was brilliant, like, you know, he said that
all these anti-Christian palmists, you know, palmists, they seem to be walking off the original
Testimonium Flavinium, that's what he said in his book, like, and then there was another
old German scholar book that said, Tacitus walked off it as well, you know, and these are the,
and also the Slavonic is a pre-Eusebian in places, but it's been destroyed,
because, you know, there's so much Christian glass, how can you get any history out of it,
but there is that little piece where they didn't name Jesus in that, you know, that is the piece,
that is, and they didn't name him, he was a Christ-eater inside in the Slavonic as well,
you know, so, I mean, like, Christians don't downgrade, you know, like, they don't downgrade,
like, you know, so if he was there from the beginning, he would be in the Slavonic now,
you know, right, right, right, he proved that it was Jewish Christians that preserved the Slavonic,
you know, so, you know, like in Russia, that it was a Jewish Christian, but they still believed
in Jesus as the Messiah, so if that was in this, it would have been in the Slavonic, you know,
Wow, and Dave, you mentioned something that's common for people, that I don't think they,
let me say this, why I love what you wrote is you take some of the obvious things we've all known,
but you really hammer it hard, because, you know, anyone who reads the Apostle of the Acts,
or the Acts of the Apostles, it's all propaganda, like, you know,
for example, propaganda, it's why they wrote it, it's more interesting than what they wrote,
you know, yeah, why did they write this, why did they write that, like, you know, like,
you know, that is just another ball game all together, the Acts, you know, yeah, and it really
is very interesting as well. I think it's interesting that you have Theodos and you have Judas the
Galilean as similar comparative people and movements. Oh yeah, I've another chapter on that
inside my book, alright, like, we're, we're, you see, we, you see, there was a, what was his name,
Unterbank, he gave me the idea that there was something hiding in behind the TF, you know,
so I said, I look into it now, I looked at all the latest scholarship on the TFIs,
and God, it would blow your way, alright, like, you know, yeah, yeah, I need to read it, what it's
hidden, like, you know, that, that is, that's where the most interesting part of it is, like, you
know, yeah. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, next question. Yeah, what are your thoughts on, what's your
thoughts about Paul in the book of Acts being equated with the Egyptian, what do you think about
that? Well, you see, that was only a, a, a comment, uh, Eisler, he, he taught that he, he was the
Egyptian, you know, but, um, and then Simon Magnus, they, they, they all think something separate,
but I don't really have a, like, I leave that to Dr Price because I haven't really looked into that,
you know. Right. But, but what I would say about it is, it shows you that the Jesus movement is
classed with all these messianist groups, like, it's not the fact that Luke got his history wrong
about the, the, the, the chronologically of Judas the Galeon and, uh, and Gamil, you know, he got,
he got some things mixed up, right? It was the fact that Jesus was compared to these other
movements, you know, in Acts, and that is very telling, like, you know, that, that is their
social class. It was Martin Smith North Staten and Jesus, the magician book, you know, uh, that,
that it's not the fact that he mixed up his history. Luke, like, you know, it's not,
it's not his history that, that is interesting. It's how he tells it, you know. It's how he tells
it. It's the interesting part, you know, that he compares the Jesus movement to Judas the Galeon,
like, they didn't get, uh, uh, get off because God wasn't on their side. God was on our side,
so he left. Also, but it wasn't that, that's interesting. It's the fact that he's comparing
them to Judas the Galeon. He said too much. He said too much. Yeah. I know he said too much,
but it's great that he did, you know? Yeah, it is. I'm glad he did. He did, yeah, because the clues
are in there. The clues are left inside. Like, I mean, uh, Carrier before said that, uh, that the
gospels and Acts are useless for history. They're not, they're not. It's just that we, we, we can't
read them literally, obviously. Right. It's what, it's the clues they give, you know? Let me ask you
one more question, because honestly, there's so much, I need to read your book, the whole thing.
Yeah, yeah. I'll tell you. Yeah. That's only a taster, but that was the most fun chapter I wrote
about the, the anti-Christian, uh, uh, palmists taking on, uh, but they seem to be walking off
the TFC. That, that, that's why, uh, that's why it's so interesting. But it also seems that chapter
then, uh, I go on about, uh, the Nazarene, Nazareth question, you know? And I think that's all part
of the clues as well, because the Nazarenes, um, they seem to be a messianist group, you know? And
I think it's very, uh, it, it, it's, it actually, it makes history more likely that Jesus was part of
a group that existed already, you know? He didn't start a group that he was part of, uh, he came
into a group, you know? And, uh, they have to cover up that fact because, uh, Jesus was God like
I saw. Uh, he couldn't have just joined me, one of the, uh, one of the normal fellows, like, you know,
he, he had to have started everything. Uh, history starts from Jesus, according to the
Christians, you know? But no, no, uh, he was, uh, had very little to do with us.
Wow. I think he probably, and maybe you agree with me that he probably became well known and famous
because the timing in which he came in existence. That's what history is for, you know? It's, it's
to track why, uh, why, why Jesus, why not to just, why not the Egyptian, you know? What is your thoughts
on that? What are your thoughts on that? Well, I suppose you could say that Paul was, uh, he must
have been brilliant as, uh, you know, like as a propagandist, you know? And he must have got the, uh,
abroad, like he must have got that movement going very good, like, you know? And he made up some
great excuses why, why Jesus was still the Messiah, even though he obviously wasn't because he got
crucified and, uh, Israel was still without a country. Uh, he was supposed to restore Israel and
he, he, you know, the, not only that, but, uh, uh, later on after Paul was dead and, uh, not only did
he not restore Israel, but their bloody house got, uh, destroyed, you know, the big temple. I mean,
that we got totally destroyed. So, uh, the opposite happened of, uh, what he was supposed to deliver,
you know? Yeah. Okay. Last question. Last question. I have to say, um, when do you place Jesus in
history and, um, why do you think they picked him? Was there something special that he did or said?
I, I, I think that's where history comes into play. Like, I'd say that maybe his movement was the
remnant of the messianists that weren't destroyed. You know, they were all destroyed. All these people
were destroyed. And the more successful ones that were for, uh, for beating the Romans, like Simon,
Barghiora, right? They were captured like, you know? And then there was the Sicari who head out, you
know? He, he, he was, his name was Lazarus, you know? And, uh, of course Lazarus is risen in the
Gospels too, of course, but, uh, he was their leader in Masada, you know? And, um, you see,
they were destroyed, killed, gone. So there was nobody there to carry on their names, like, because
they were dead. But there must have been enough, the Jesus movement, uh, he was earlier on before the
war. And it must have been enough for them in the next generation that survived and went abroad.
Some of them had to go abroad, like, you know, when you're in trouble, like you go abroad,
they start up the diaspora. And, uh, it's like the diaspora, the descendants of that diaspora
are looking back on an old war hero, you know? Right, right. Yeah. And after the Roman war,
they wrote about their war hero. And not only that, but the stories of other war heroes got
joined in with Jesus, because it's not one story. It's about 10 stories joined into the Gospels,
like, you know, I'd say all the other fellow stories got ended up in dishing with Jesus as well,
like, you know, and plus all the, all the, all the Hebrew scriptures as well, like, I mean, they're
all, they had Jesus doing the exact same miracles as Elijah and Elisha and all that, like, so there's
about 20 stories matched into one, like, but what he got remembered is just maybe it was his, uh,
his community might survive the war, like, you know, and the others didn't, and he was the other
community's remnants of the other community stories as well, got matched in as well. Wow.
Yeah, that's what that Dr. Price says, that the, uh, John the Baptist movement and followers come
into Christianity, like they're trying to make them become Christians, which is interesting.
Yeah, Bob is brilliant, because he, he's right, he can see through the propaganda, see, you know,
like, um, even Steve Mason said it as well, like, that John the Baptist, they might have had nothing
to do with the Jesus movement, you know, in Josephus, they had nothing to do with him. Christianity
isn't mentioned in the John the Baptist passage, like, you know, so they might have been more popular,
and, uh, maybe, maybe the lads here, like, they wanted, uh, they wanted all the Baptists to join
them as well, so they, they'd wrote them into the propaganda as well, like, you know. Wow.
Yeah. Thanks. So I have to make this the last question, have to, have to. Yeah,
yeah, no, no, you're crying, you're crying. Why, why would Pagans, non-Israelites,
want to follow this guy? Did they paint him in a pretty way, and he made him not look like
this messianic figure by the time Pagans start to take notice of this?
Well, that is true, like, Paul did reinterpret, like, at that stage, he was only using Jesus'
story, you know, um, it wasn't the old Jewish story, he was using, he was using a crucifixion
story and changing it, you know, so, and, uh, he wanted to disassociate with, uh, all Jesus' family,
um, he wanted nothing to do with, uh, James and all them, like, you know, and, and he was, uh,
he was pretending that he was ahead of the organization, you know, all through his levels,
like, it's me, it's nobody else, like, there was other missionaries beside Paul, and they're
mentioned inside in his letters, independent of Paul, like, Roman, nothing to do with Paul,
that wasn't started by Paul, Paul only wrote a letter to them, you know, so, uh, this movement
was being, was being, uh, was being, uh, made, uh, it's a very good question you have there,
like, all right, like, you know, why would the Gentiles be bothered with an old Jewish messianist,
you know, but the Jews didn't be bothered with him because he was a failure in life,
and the Gentiles, that didn't mean nothing to them, so maybe they, they followed that easier,
you know, um, and another thing, why Paul didn't talk about Jesus' life, because he says very little
about him, is, uh, would you talk about a failure, like, you know, ask yourself that, like, you know,
and, and Paul said that he was resurrected, that's where the success was, you know, and that God
resurrected him, but during his life, why would he bother talking about his life, if he was crucified
up in a cross, he obviously failed, like, you know. Wow, Dave, Dave, this is, I got to read the rest
of the book, um, is it going to be published one day? Yeah, yeah, I'm going to give it to Dr. Bob,
because, uh, you know, like, I get on well with, with Bob, you know, and, uh, and I know he's on
hard times, and, like, I'm a shopkeeper, so I have enough money. Yeah, well, I got to read the rest of
this, and everyone watching. Yeah, yeah, oh no bother, yeah, yeah, like, I'm still in the rewrite,
you know, of it, and, uh, I want to get it right, like, before I, before I put it out there, but,
but that chapter five was so much fun, I just had to, I had to put it out there, I can give you the
rest of the book if you want it, like, you know. Absolutely, yeah. But, uh, I, I, I was too excited,
anyway. Yeah, I felt like you, I felt like you got so close, like, I've interviewed Lena Einhorn,
and you know, you saw the interview. Yeah, yeah, she's, she's on the right track, you know. Yeah,
she's very brilliant, yeah. I'll tell you one thing, even Carrier said that if there was a historical
Jesus, Lena wasn't on the right track, like, and she was, but the only reason Jesus sounds like the
Egyptian is because he was one of them, like, he was one of those messianic rebels, he actually
sounds like a mile, not just one, and there's a whole chapter on that as well, where he sounds like
I put in about five or six of them, and they all sound like, fuck that could be Jesus, you know.
I mean, like, you know, like, that's the reason he sounds like him, because he was one of them,
you see. Yeah. Wow. Dave, thank you. Do you put any of your information out there if people
want to contact you, or? Well, I, I just, I just stand the group really, I just, I just write,
it's only a hobby, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I did a history degree, so that's why, that's why
I'm able to study it a bit better than maybe the other Joe Sobs, like, you know, because I'm only
with Joe Sobs myself, like, but I did actually, I did actually get a degree in history, so I do
understand how to read properly, like, you know, yeah. Yeah. Well, get it out there, like, you know,
but the group, the group that I joined, you know, the historical Jesus group, like, they are very
hip guys in there, like, you know, and, and whenever I put out an idea, like, it bounces off,
man, they bounce it back. And, you know, like, I mean, that Christianity thing, that was, like,
there was a fellow in that group, Dianne here, he taught me there, that Johnson said, should
it, that only means Jewish messianist, like, read this book here. Like, I mean, Johnson had that
bit figured out years ago, like, but, oh, this is buried, you see, because anything that makes Jesus
look like a rebel, like, is obviously going to be buried, like, you know. Yeah. It's not going to,
they're hoping it won't be resurrected, but we will do it. Look, everyone watching, he's in the
Facebook group. He's not only, he's in a couple of groups, Mythical Jesus versus Historical, and then
Jesus. And the Methodist group as well, like, you know, I, like, I met me in a couple of groups,
because I like to see both sides, you know. Yes. And, and, and for a while there, I was, I mean,
because, you know, like, Christian histories are fake, like, you know, and, you know, like, I said,
Jesus, that didn't happen at all, like, you know, whatever, you know, the stories, like, you know,
and Jesus, no, no, that didn't happen at all. But then, as you dig deeper and deeper, you say, Jesus,
something, like, you know, ideas bounce around, like, and eventually I've come to the conclusion
that he was already, like, you know, yeah. Anyway, yeah, you go join it. Yeah, go into
the description. You guys can join both of the Facebook groups. You guys can, you know, when
you go in the group, you can tag Dave, say thank you for, you know, the show. Dave's in Ireland,
so it's obvious he has an accent. But if you guys get ahold of his material, which will be
launched on the Journal of Higher Criticism with Dr. Price at some point, you guys need to get the
book and check it out. I'm telling you chapter five, I've only read chapter five, and it's,
like, let me, can I say this? Dave takes a lot of time pointing out things, like, he goes to,
like, Kelsus. Kelsus is quoting. He'll make an argument assuming Jesus is followed by
tax collectors and sailors, right? And you're like, where did this come from? Because it doesn't come
from the Gospels. And Origen is arguing back, which is where we get our evidence of some of this
stuff. And he's like, oh, he obviously hasn't read our Gospel. But what is Kelsus reading? And is
Kelsus reading something from the Testimonium Plovinium? And he goes to make an argument
that there's more evidence about this guy than what we have in our New Testament. There's a lot
more evidence. Yeah, Martin Smith did put it very well. He said that we were at the disadvantage of
his propagandists, you know, or is, you know, the people that are on his side, that's the only side
of the story we have, like, but there are clues out there from the other side, like, you know,
from the rebels. And the Romans, the Roman side is very interesting, you know, like,
they debut him, like, like El Quedal or something like that, you know, they're like, you know,
their letters, they describe the Christianity as superstitious, dangerous, rebellious,
you know, inciting their letters, like, you know, and, you know, like, you know, and they're not
really talking about Christians, like, they were only just talking about messianists in general.
And they were the crowd that caused so much trouble in the Jewish Roman War, like, you know,
that's why they wrecked the temple, because they reckon that the temple was driving them and to
to become, like, their scriptures to come over and take on the Romans, like, you know,
that is giving them too much spirit to fight the Romans, you know, and they're casting the
Romans a lot of money too, I suppose. Interesting. It was a vicious war, it was a vicious war,
like, you know, because, you know, like, the Jews were fighting, like, as if they were going to live
right through any, anything that they throw at them, like, you know, yeah,
because they thought God was fighting with them. You're right, they are like the Al-Qaeda,
that sounds like the Al-Qaeda, yeah. They thought God was fighting with them, like,
and we're going to win it, no matter if we have, no matter how much the Romans had, like, you know,
we're going to win this. The Romans had to throw in loads of soldiers in there, like, you know,
it cost them a pile of money, like, the Romans. And anyway, that's it. Well, thank you so much,
David. Hey, I hope you can do this again sometime, and we can definitely chat.
Yeah. Oh, yeah, no problem, yeah. Okay. Thank you.
All right, and ladies and gentlemen, we are Mithvision.
And if you see where the placement of the TF is, right, you know, the column before it, you know,
it, like, I mean, all the Jews throughout Scott's lit and they got killed. They were like,
the people up in Northern Ireland, they were doing an innocent, well, they might have been innocent,
but they were unarmed protest. And they started shooting at him. It caused a 30 year war up there,
you know, there was a 30 year war by the IRA up in Northern Ireland, because of that. And before
Jesus' scolium, you know, there was a similar incident happened where the innocent, well,
maybe I shouldn't use the word innocent, like, but Jews were protesting, you know,
and they weren't armed and pilots got his soldiers to dress up as ordinary people
in among them and started curving them and killing them. And I mean, like, that would drive anyone
daft, like, you know, so when Jesus went up, there could have been a mob there for him to lead,
you know, he could have been a charismatic character. And whatever galleons he brought
up with him, like, you know, the Judeans could have joined in with him. And myself and Stephen
Nielsen, we're looking at the Greek of the TF, you know, and at one stage it said, and you notice
this as well, you taught me this as well, that all the Greeks and all the Jews were following Jesus.
And that sounds very part of, you know, like parts of the Bistles and not like Josephus, like,
and you are correct, you know, if you if you swapped out the word Greeks with galleons,
you could have Jesus leading a double movement, like, like the Jews and the galleons at Passover.
At Passover is a very reactionary time rather than an organized time, you know. And it's something
happened at that time. And he got arrested and crucified. And he wasn't crucified alone. So
he wasn't a single man that was crucified. There was, Mark puts three crucified because
three is a big number with Mark, like, but there could have been a lot more crucified there with
a minute could be a lot of others group, you know, and Kelsa Stens says, what's what's the
difference between the two fellas crucified with Jesus and Jesus? There's no fucking difference
there. He said, like, you know, there were robbers and robbers in Josephus means brigands,
you know, that's the term for brigands, like, you know. Yeah, more pointers there for you,
you know. Yeah, thank you. And that's my chapter four. That's my chapter four. Actually, I must
send out the rest of the book to you. But I thought chapter five was a was just a very entertaining
chapter. So it is. It really is. I gotta get these people and gotta read it. Yeah, it's very
entertaining. I enjoy that chapter. I must say, like, whereas the chapter before the TF is very
technical, then it goes into the Greek. And, you know, like, if it could get lost reading that
chapter, like, but you had to make the groundwork for chapter five, like, you know, yeah, yeah.
I had three more chapters before the TF as well, because you have to lay down the groundwork,
because Christianity wasn't born a bubble. It came from somewhere. And you had to put down
all that background, like, you know, and what is messianism, you have to understand it very,
very well, like, you know, to understand what draw these people, like, you know.
Wow. And yeah. Okay. Sorry. Thank you. Thank you.
