నినిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని న
నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని ని
నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని నిని ని
నినtał నిని నిని న౿నeksటి న౿ని.
the Blandium, there were 72 different sects of Judaism in Jerusalem alone. And what united them was
the Torah, they all believed in the first five books, but some of them, that's all they believed in,
they rejected all other writings, some of them like the Pharisees believed in the Tanakh, right,
so they had the writings of the prophets and the wisdom literature, and some of them had books
that aren't in our Bible at all. And so, you know, so there is no strict scriptural canon at the turn
of the millennium except for the Torah. And this is also true with early Christianity. I mean, the
Christian New Testament doesn't get canonized till, you know, the end of the fourth century.
And so the point is, as we lay these information mediums down on our biblical history,
we can start seeing how the interpretation, the collection interpretation of scripture evolves.
And it's not till the Protestant Reformation that we actually get the Christianity with which you
and I are familiar with. You know, the Protestant Reformation is the product of the printing press.
They're the first movement in history that actually uses the printing press for propaganda.
Luther flooded, and his alkalites flooded Europe with tens of thousands of pamphlets
promoting the Reformation out of Catholicism. Well, you also get new translations of Bibles,
and you get the multiplicity of Bibles. And now, you know, it's not just the Catholic Priest who can
read the Bible, now anyone can read the Bible. But with that, you get, really, the Protestant
Reformation is where you start getting the idea that everything in the Bible is literal history.
Because, you know, the Catholic priests for centuries had been reading the Bible using
different lenses, allegory, symbol, you know, parable and history. But the Protestants rejected
everything the Catholics were doing. They rejected the Catholic authority, the Papal authority,
and they said, the only authority we now need is a text. This is radically different than the
history of all religion. You know, before the papacy, the authority you needed was the
temple and the temple cult. Right? It wasn't a text. It was the temple and the temple cult.
That gets transposed to the synagogue and a text. That gets transposed to an imperial structure
that Rome imprints upon Christianity, and then that finally gets transposed into just the text.
That's what the Protestants do. Now, all we need is the Bible. And that's why you have thousands of
different Protestant sects and only a couple Catholic traditions. Because when you have a
centralized authority like the papacy, well, then you've got the thing that's going to determine
the interpretation of your text. When you get rid of that and say, no, no, the text is the only
authority we need, the problem with that is everyone has a different interpretation. And over
a few centuries, you go from one Protestant sect to now thousands. Okay, John. Yes. So what happened,
what started off as being conceived of as a simplification or maybe a settling of a grand issue
actually became more complicated because now with the multiplicity of texts, now we've got a situation
that's more diverse and maybe more unmanageable than ever before. How did that kind of inverse
relationship sneak up on them from behind because they couldn't have seen that coming? Well,
you know, the Protestants tend to be quite anti-Catholic, but it turns out Catholicism
had a real mess on its hands. Again, we forget that there were no fax machines in the ancient world.
The early Christian world, the first century Christians, you know, you had a group of Christians
in this city and a group in this city and a group in this city and a group in this city. We get the
New Testament mostly because we get this guy, Paul, who's writing all these letters to these different
groups because Paul realizes nobody believes the same thing. And furthermore, they have different
texts that they're using. I mean, they're using the Jewish text, but they're using other texts as
well. You know, we get all these apocrypha and pseudopigrapha, but they're using other texts that
don't make it into our canonized New Testament. And so, you know, the Catholics often get
criticized by Protestants because basically they voted the New Testament into existence, right?
And then the Protestants are saying, oh, yeah, you voted it. We believe the Word of God is the power
and spirit of revelation in the spirit of God. Well, I'm sorry, but how did you get the text
Protestants? The Catholics are the ones that went through an enormous effort of trying to find,
you know, the earliest manuscripts and tried to get everyone on the same page and tried to,
they did have all these councils and they were very conscientious. But, you know, that still
means, you know, there's politics involved and there's various levels of competency involved
and there's greed and, you know, there's human beings involved. And so, but the bottom line is
Catholicism creates Christianity. And had they not created Christianity, I don't think Christianity
would have taken off. I mean, it was burgeoning under the Roman Empire, but thank goodness Constantine
converted because, but two things happen. Constantine converts, Christianity becomes the
imperial religion. Christianity is now a world religion. And at the same time, you get, you know,
this correlation occurring through all these councils, which means everything on the fringe
is getting kicked out. And it turns out, you might be kicking out the most important stuff.
Okay, I mean, that's just that's that's there's no way around it. So they're canonizing the text,
they're standardizing the principles, they're standardizing the ecclesiastical structure. This
actually saves Christianity, promotes Christianity, makes Christianity a world religion, there's huge
upsides. At the same time, you're kicking out anything considered heretical, or you just don't
know, you just don't know, so you kick it out. Well, oh, wait, stop, that might be the thing you want.
Right. And so, and then, you know, is there an example you can give John just just one example
if you have one, I'm just wondering. Well, I'll give you an example that made it into the New
Testament, but no one exactly sure what to do with it. And that's the Book of Revelation, right?
The last book in the book is the only book in the New Testament, the only book in the New Testament
that identifies itself as scripture. It says, do not add to this. And of course, a lot of Protestants
say, it's talking about the New Testament, it's not, it's talking about just the Book of Revelation.
And the Book of Revelation says, this is a sacred text, do not add to it. Which means by, you know,
the end of the first century, the content of the Book of Revelation was seen by the first
century Christians as the Christian scriptural canon. And it turns out, that's the text no one
understands. Well, why, why is that? Why, why, no, wait a second, I mean, we want, we want history
scripture, right? So, we get the Gospels, which gives us the story of Jesus, we get Paul, which
gives us the doctrines right here, the corrections, what people should believe, right? And then,
Revelation comes in and it's, you know, it's, what is Revelation? Well, it turns out, it's cosmology,
it's ritual, it's, you know, it's myth, it's, it's the pattern of the old religious structure
that's been retained. And so, and what do Christians do with it? They reinterpret it as
historical and so they say, well, this is all about, you know, the coming age, where Christ comes
again, and so it's a prophecy, the Four Horsemen, the Apocalypse, it's a prophecy of a future time.
I would argue, gentlemen, that Revelation is a prophecy of cosmic time. Remember, to oral peoples,
the truth is cosmic fact, not historic fact. And what it's teaching is the future time of the soul,
right? It's not telling us when the nuclear war is going to happen. So, in any case, what we get,
what we get with the Book of Revelation is, is a reflection, probably, of the Christian understanding
of Scripture. And it's the thing we understand least, so this is rather disconcerting. And this
is a point, by the way, that Margaret Barker makes in one of her books, that the Book of Revelation
is probably the thing that, that the Christians all recognize the Scripture and everything else
did have to get voted on. So, you know, that, you know, that's a little disturbing. Anyway, we've
got to move on. I've got so much stuff and we just keep talking about caves. So, the bottom line
is, on this graphic you have in front of you, what happens with the literatization of Christian
religion, your temples become schools, your cosmology becomes science, your ritual structures
become creeds, and modern Christianity, therefore, has become, in Protestant versions of it anyway,
has become completely deritualized, decosmologized, desacralized, and it's wholly a textual affair.
Well, I'm not condescending or I'm not describing that in pejorative terms, I'm just describing
what has happened, right? There's a lot of pluses that come with literate Christianity,
but we just have to recognize that modern Protestant variations of Christianity are going to be
something entirely different than 1st century Christianity, which is going to be something
entirely different than 4th century Judaism, which is going to be something entirely different
than 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th century Israelite religion. So, I probably should skip over this,
but just so that we get our feet on the ground, here are some basic differences between the mediums
and how they reflect between oral religion or proto-literate religion and literate religion.
Oral or proto-literate religion is based in nature and cosmology, literate religion is based in
doctrines and texts. Oral religion is cyclical, literate religion is linear. Oral religion
believes in cosmic truths, tells narratives about archetypal stories, which are myths. Literate religion
wants only the facts, please tell me only what happened, we want history. Oral religion is tribal,
literate religion is introspective, I am thou, it's individual. Oral religion, polytheistic,
monotheistic, ritual based text based, temple centered, text centered. So, this left column is
Israelite religion, the right column is Jewish religion. So, I divide Israelite religion with Judaism
after the destruction of the temple and the creation of the sacred text. And so, Judaism is
literate religion, Israelite religion is oral religion. And, but we do get these patterns
in early Christianity as well, the book of Revelation is there to show us those patterns
still existed. And so, and we don't know what to do with it. And that's because, like Pyramid text,
the book of Revelation is a whole stack of epithets, metaphors, symbols, which all are describing
the cosmology, ritual and myth of the center of the cult of the early Christian belief system.
What I just said, by the way, a lot of scholars would disagree with. So, you know, just know that.
John, are you saying that there's a conceivable parallel universe, if you will,
where there's nothing but the type of writing we see in the book of Revelation where that would have been
more the norm instead of the exception? That's mind blowing.
Well, yeah, actually, we get a similar book in the Old Testament called Ezekiel.
And we don't know what to do with that, but it's describing a temple cosmology. Ezekiel and
Revelation are connected in that way. And of course, if you've read any of the books of Enoch,
you know, look, the Dead Sea Scrolls have the number one prophet that is written about in the
Dead Sea Scrolls is copied through the Dead Sea Scrolls is Isaiah. We would expect that because
Isaiah is really beginning this literate tradition within Judaism before the Torah is written.
But the second most mentioned or cited prophet in the Dead Sea Scrolls is Enoch. What? What? Wait,
stop. Where did he come from? Enoch gets two or three verses in Genesis and that's all we know about
him. And he is throughout the Dead Sea Scrolls. Well, you know, all we know about Enoch is the
late manuscripts that have been found that are books of Enoch. And what are they? They're the
book of Revelation. And it's just all cosmology and ritual. And no one knows how to interpret Enoch,
right? He has this heavenly journey and he goes to the temple in heaven where he receives
the knowledge of God and the knowledge of time and past, present and future. It's very Revelation-esque.
Well, the Essenes appear to be practicing, I mean, their conceptual religion lives in that world.
And we've lost that world because it's not the literate cognitive model in which modern Christianity
exists. And so we just lost that world. So yes, Lou III, to answer your question, there was a time
when Revelation was more the norm than anything else. But that time is past. So now we've moved on
and so there you have it. All right, now I'm ready to engage into this next part,
which is what you wanted me to engage in, which is astral theology. Are you ready to go for this?
Ladies and gentlemen, just so you know, the show is now beginning.
We're finally beginning the show. Well, that previous hour was just answering Anne's question.
Please limit your questions, people.
All right. Look, this is a very interesting question. You asked me to speak on astral theology
and is astral theology in the Bible. Most biblical scholars, I think, would say no, by the way.
Let's just define what astral theology is. I have here on the top bullet just the dictionary
definition. Theology founded on the observation or knowledge of celestial bodies. And if you
look at astrology in Wikipedia, astrology is astral theology in polytheistic systems.
You read, the Hebrew Bible contains repeated references to astrology. Well, it turns out it does.
Deuteronomy 4 and 17 contains a stern warning against worshiping the sun, moon, stars, or any
of the heavenly host. Relapse into the worshiping of the host of heaven, the stars, is said to have
been the cause of the fall of the kingdom of Judah and second kings. Well, so what does that mean?
Did the Israelites practice astral theology? Well, the text tells us they did.
So, I mean, that settles the issue, right? But I think most religious scholars would say that was
an aberration. They kept going to the pagan cult systems around them, which was filled with
astral theology, which is true. And so, but Israelite religion itself was a rejection of
astral theology. I would argue against that. I would argue against that because, as we just learned,
oral cognitive models require mapping memories on to the stars and planets as well as to the trees
and rivers and rocks by which they maintain their calendar and their cult system, right? And so,
you automatically are synthesizing the heavens with your religious conceptions. I mean, this just
happens automatically. If you live in an oral society and, quite frankly, for most of Israelite
history, about less than 10 or even 5 percent of the population could read or write. So, this was
going on. And this is why the Bible keeps saying, hey, stop worshiping the host of heaven because
the Israelites kept doing it. And they kept doing it because they were hardwired to do it.
That's what oral peoples do.
But now, I'm going to give some examples outside of the Bible. I think this is very instructive.
Here, I have two pictures of, you know, the left one is this. These are the icons of the religious
face of Judaism in Christianity. If you could sum up Judaism in one picture, what would you show?
Well, there's a few pictures you might show, but inevitably, Moses with the Ten Commandments receiving
the vision and revelation on Sinai is the thing you would show. And what does Moses come down
from the mountain with? He comes down with a text. And so, this is, you know, wow! It's not
only a text, it's a text written by God, right, by the finger of God. Well, this is a huge transition
and might I argue, you know, I said in the last podcast, the story of the Exodus probably is
patterned off of a temple ritual, right, which means the original thing that Moses came down with
probably wasn't a text. It was a ritual cycle, a cosmological cycle, but, you know, it's a religion now.
And so, we're going to go down with the text. And I don't mind that because it turns out the
text Moses comes down with is pretty freaking genius. And we can talk about that later. I mean,
it's just ten simple statements that no one wants to live by. But if we did, we would solve almost
all of our problems. But, you know, but Moses was an ignorant goat herder, so we don't have to think
about it. All right, so you have that image. And then in Christianity, you have, of course,
the crucifixion. That is the icon of faith for Christians. And this is in the text, but it is,
you know, it's history, right? Both of these are seen as historical events,
and they are the icons of faith. Well, let me show you a different icon of faith.
The leading religion in Rome, as Christianity was growing, was Mithraism, based off the God
Mithras. Almost all the legionnaires in the Roman armies were Mithraism. In fact, Mithraism was an
all-boys club. You had to be male in order to be initiated into it. But females would be initiated
into other mystery religions as corollaries to the initiations of Mithraism. What do we know
about Mithraism? And, you know, sadly, almost nothing. There are no texts. Even in this literate
Roman world, the truth was, if you publish, you will perish. And that was true of all the mystery
religions. And so you could not reveal what was going on because it was thought to be so sacred.
What we learn about the Greco-Roman mysteries turns out to be from later Christian writers who
are writing about them to criticize them. So, you know, maybe we shouldn't be taking everything these
writings tell us as fact because, you know, if someone's writing about your religion to criticize
it, they're probably going to get a lot wrong because they're writing from a completely different
perspective. Well, this motif in front of us is called the troctany scene. And it's the standard
icon of faith of Mithraism, the leading religion in Rome. And ironically, I mean, good grief in the
first of the fourth century, if you were to tell a Roman that, you know, within a century or two,
Mithraism will have disappeared from the earth and Christianity will be the imperial world religion.
They would laugh at you. They would probably execute you for blasphemy. They would probably
crucify you for being such an idiot. But that's what history had. That's what history just can't.
No one saw it coming. No one saw it coming at all. Well, so here is the icon of Mithraism. And I
just want to point a few things out. Here at the top, you see these figures. These are the symbols
of the zodiac. There's Gemini, Taurus, Aries. There's Pisces. Here's the scales, right? So Mithras,
the God Mithras is seen kneeling on a bull. This is the Perian marble, the famous inscription,
but the troctany scene we're looking at is a standard scene that you find in various Mithraic
temples. He's stabbing the bull in the shoulder blade, which is really interesting. It's not a
killing blow. It's not a stab to the heart. It's not slitting the throat. But the bull is always
surrounded by other icons. You have this scorpion that's always below it. You have the serpent that's
below it. You have a dog. You have a raven here to the left. And there's a cup or crater, a drinking
cup, which isn't in this. It's on this, but it's not in this depiction right here. It's off screen.
And then you have these personifications, these heads. These are the four corners,
the four winds, the four breaths, the four corners. This is your tem of your temple,
right? The quadrated cross that defines your sacred space, your sacred season, your sacred cosmos.
Well, you don't have to know too much to immediately recognize that what we're looking
at here is astronomical, is astrothiological. In fact, this scorpion down here, this serpent,
this dog, this raven, these are all constellations. This is tar, the bull is Taurus, the scorpion is
Scorpio, the dog is Canis Major, Hydra, crater the cup, corvus the crow, Leo the lion. In looking at
the icon of metriism, you are looking at a stellar tableau, a snapshot of the sky. And this is the
part of the sky you're looking at. The part of the sky between Taurus and Scorpio that's, you know,
Leo is on the ecliptic, but most of these other constellations are below the ecliptic, below the
celestial equator. And something is going on, well, sorry, I'm not supposed to reveal that.
All right, the world is going to end. Something is going on in mythraic initiation
that is relating the sacred aspects of the eternal nature of the soul to
the star constellation. What is that about? What are they doing? Look, scholars are doing this for
decades, and because there are no exteriors, have some, I have my own theories of it, I have my own
shots at it that I think are at least really good hypotheses. And maybe we'll get in,
yeah, we will get into that here in a little bit. But the point is that I'm making that
with Christianity, you get a text, an historical event that is at the center of your faith,
and all the religions in Rome, you get something completely different. You get astrothiology.
And their religious initiations are connected to the stars. You know, in metriism there are
seven grades of initiation. Each one is compared to a planetary sphere. You have this great document,
the Mithras liturgy, which scholars argue over, but Hans Bader Dieter Betz did a definitive
discussion of this ancient magical scroll that's written in Mithraic cosmology. And the scroll
is an initiation, and the title of the initiation is, quote, ritual for immortalization. This is how one
gains eternal life, becomes immortal. And the entire motifs in the scroll is about the initiate
rising up to the stars, becoming one of the stars, meeting the pole lords, meeting Mithras himself
in an embrace where he joins the eternal realm through a sort of celestial journey. Here we're
getting, by the way, something that's much closer to the book of Revelation than any other book in the
New Testament, something that's much closer to the book of Ezekiel than anything else in the Old
Testament. Here we're getting what Enoch does. Enoch travels through the heavens, learns the powers
of the heavens, and brings those powers back to earth to give beneficial powers, and also to obtain
salvation. So we do have iterations of this kind of religiosity in the Judeo-Christian record, but it's
been purged out of the literate tradition, and being that the Judeo-Christian religion is a
literate tradition, it's now non-canonical, it's outside of what we understand or accept. Any questions?
I have a statement. I have a statement. Yeah, I totally disagree that those should have been left out.
There's so much to glean. Luther has, you know, me and him have bounced on Enoch for a while,
but he's done a lot of thorough analyzing of Enoch, and there's so much you're bringing up that makes
so much sense with all of this being said. I don't want to rabbit trail off of this. I really,
I could see this being factual, you know, and making a lot of sense in light of all this stuff,
but you have such a satellite angle as what I love about it, because you're looking at the big picture,
you're seeing things like most scholars will like, they dig into one field very, very well,
and then it's like, what about how that connects to this and that connects to that? You do a really
good job. I like that. I just wanted to make that statement. And just to heads up, we've got about
45 minutes just to let you guys know. Oh, we're screwed. None of you are going to be saved tonight.
Sorry. We need to switch relations then. In order to be saved, Derek, I need 50 minutes.
Well, we can give you 50 minutes. Take it, John. This is so exciting. I don't want to miss a bit.
All right. Well, look, Derek, just to respond, I am a big picture guy. And it's true, you know,
there is advantages and disadvantages to each. I like to see the forest for the trees, but it turns
out if you look at the forest long enough, you start losing focus on some of the individual trees,
and you need to know those. Whereas if you spend your entire career looking at an individual tree,
you don't see the forest. And so, I tend towards big picture things. And I'm doing conceptual work
on information mediums and how oral societies, how oral societies pass things down. And it explains
so much of the ancient myth and religious systems, which is what, you know, the point is, and by
the way, here's my next graphic, my next page. Yeah, we just looked at the iconomethrism, and it
turns out to be really a pattern of all ancient religious structures, because all ancient religious
structures have emerged from that oral imprinting press of temple, cosmology, myth, and ritual.
And so, you know, no matter what tradition you go, even in the traditions within literate Rome,
your mystery, your Greco-Roman mystery religions are still participating in the old
sacral cosmological structures, because they've been passed down for centuries. Remember, we only get
fully literate religion when Judaism gets their temple destroyed, right? They, they lose Jerusalem,
they get slaughtered. And John, and just saying, that is a show we must have. I mean, this is,
me and Luther are big on this temple thing right now. You know, we've been bouncing around just to
give you the general idea. We're willing to go wherever the evidence leads. And because we find out
about a mythology, we're digging into that, we started questioning if any of this stuff really
happened. We're like, okay, it's loaded with mythology. Did it really happen? And so, you know,
now we're like, we're like, okay, yes, there's really some concrete to this, but it's mythologized.
And so, it's like, we're bouncing around, brother. And that's a show we need to do on the temple.
And the fact that the first and the second temple were both destroyed on the same day,
according to the Jewish calendar. There's something going on here. And you're the guy. I think
you're the guy, man. Actually, Margaret Barker would be the excellent scholar to talk about that,
because she tries to reconstruct the temple tradition out of the biblical text, which
is enormously difficult to do, because it's been purged out of the text. But, you know,
I'd be happy to give a presentation about that. And I'll just cite some of the insights of Margaret
Barker. And lots of, you know, again, a lot of scholars will disagree with Barker, disagree with
me, because they're, you know, they're looking at their literate trees. And I'm stepping back and
I'm saying, this is what history has given us. And so, we can safely assume that early Israelite
religion had far more in common with their Mesopotamian and Egyptian neighbors than they do
with modern Judeo-Christian tradition. Of course, that's true. And so, we just have to understand
why and what changed and what happened. Well, that's what I'm talking about tonight. In any case,
these are just different pictures of different traditions. This is an Orphic ritual bull.
This is a Mesopotamian calendar marker or property marker. There's a ziggurat. There's a
coffin text. And there's the Greek sphinx. You know, again, we accidentally get a Greek fragment
of writing from a guy named Heraclides of Pontus. He's a Pythagorean. And we don't get his writing.
We get a writing of someone writing about his writing. And in this writing, we learn, according
to Heraclides, that there are certain stars in the sky or roads in the sky that the soul travels on
when it gets born into this material world and when it leaves this material world. And he identifies
the constellations where these roads are at. One is near Scorpio. One is near Leo. And one is near
Aquarius. Well, if you look at that bottom left figure, that is the depiction of the Greek sphinx,
the scorpion serpent, which is the tail, the human head, and the Leonite body.
And it turns out the Greek sphinx was almost always found at tombs. It was the guardian
of the soul as it traveled into the next world. Well, if we take this fragment of Heraclides,
then we learn that the sphinx is sort of the icon of how the soul journeys into the next world.
It is a sort of equivalent of the Mithraic toroctony. It's an icon of astral theology.
And they planted that at the graveside or at the tomb as a symbol that the person who died
knew the correct paths in the afterlife. Also, the symbol was a guardian. So, if you weren't
properly initiated or if you didn't know the correct paths, the sphinx would destroy you. Your soul
wouldn't pass, be able to pass the correct roads. And so, it was a guardian. But the whole point is,
here we have another astral theological motif that's embedded in ancient cultures and it descends from
Egypt and has corollaries in Mesopotamia. So, this goes back a very long time, thousands of years.
So, the point is, is all these religious structures take place within this oral religious
template that existed before the invention of writing. The pharaohs didn't invented the pyramid
text. They inherited them, but they weren't texts. They were this, this oral and printing press.
And they innovated it and turned it into text in grand structures of pyramids and temples
where they could perform these texts. But the texts themselves were literally performed.
And, and it's based off this old tradition that was passed down over thousands of years. And so,
I mean, this is true of all the religious structures. The Greeks didn't invent Greek mythology.
They inherited it, but they adapted it and innovated it and made it substantially Greek.
And so, and so, there you have it. So, you know, what that tells us is the Israelites
innovated a prior religious form that would have been conceptually in the world we're looking at here.
But by the time they become literate and lost the temple, it turns into something else.
John, on that note, because I know you're going into something else here,
syncretism, okay? It seems to me this ties in with, I keep getting this picture in my head,
that astrological motifs in all of this, the way that they framed it in an oral mind,
the reason we find the same, if you were to talk about a human body, we find the same type of
bone structure, okay, in all human bodies is because they're all based off of this same template.
It doesn't mean that they're the same story. There's, this is why we see syncretism,
if that makes sense. And there's varying degrees of how this might play out in different myths,
but would you agree that that's what we're actually seeing here? And is the,
another question I hate to hit you with another one, but I kept thinking of the Egyptian
sphinx. And I was thinking, well, what in the world is the Egyptian sphinx? Because now you got me
really, oh goodness, I'm going to mess you up. I know I am. I don't mean to.
No, hey, if you want to read about the Egyptian sphinx and myth and cult,
read the chapter of Heracles in my book Mythos and Cosmos. It's pretty darn genius.
Saying so myself. Love it. Love it. Look,
yes, so this graphic we have, this is the structure of oral religion and that structure exists
all through the pagan period, the pre-western period. And so it's big picture though.
And what you get is different innovations and adaptations in every different society. And so
the Egyptians are going to do something different with what they have inherited. And of course,
Egyptian religion is 3,000 years and over that 3,000 years Egyptian religion evolves. And so,
you know, the Egyptian religion of the Tomeik era is not going to be the same as the Egyptian
religion of the first dynasties. And so, but every culture then adopts this structure because
it's a structure that their brains think in. It's their structure that the brains are wired in.
But the content of it, the message, this is the medium. The message is going to be slightly
different in every culture as they adapted to localized events and localized concerns. And so,
you know, so we have to be careful in homogenizing all stories and myths into
representing the same thing. That's not what I'm doing. What I'm doing is saying they come from
the same structure, a cognitive structure of virality. That's the medium. And then the
medium changes with the invention of writing. And the medium has another massive change with
the invention of the reductive phonetic scripts. And then it changes again with the invention
of the printing press. And these changes actually reformat religions entirely, practically. And so,
so we can sort of follow the contours of these changes as we look at how different societies
use the, that they live in. So, I don't know how much time we have left, but now none of us are going to get saved.
John, take as much time as you need. So, what happens to the immutable soul? Religion is changing,
but presumably there is some substrate of the human being that maybe is constant throughout
all of this. So, how are we supposed to grasp this? In other words, what happens to the nature of
the eternal, whatever that is, the immutable and the eternal in light of the constant reformation of
how we conceptualize it? Well, Luther, that is a $100,000 question, $100 million question. Actually,
there's no price you can put on that question. Look, the eternal remains. And yes, it's true.
Like all the scholars feeling a different part of the elephant over history, we grab different
aspects of the eternal and try to synthesize it in different ways. But I think there's an
excellent argument to make that human nature doesn't change. The way we access our own nature,
that doesn't change. Human interiority, our brains get rewired, but good and evil doesn't change.
And so, in every culture, you get people struggling with the great questions. You know,
they're actually called the terrible questions. What is the soul? Is there life after death?
Who am I? I mean, that's a terrible question. Because your name in your social class and your
bank account doesn't describe who you are, Luther. Who are you? Who am I? If I have
a soul and it's eternal, wow, that changes everything. And this all goes into, I mean,
this is a total. This is way off our subject. But you know what, I'm going to go for it.
Because quite frankly, I'm talking about the transition from this structure here we have
in front of us to literate religion. But the literate Bible still gives us some genius insights
that address the eternal. I mean, and it's genius. You hear people like Richard Dawkins. And you know
what, I like Dawkins and Hitchens and Sam Harris. I mean, I don't agree with them, but they're smart
guys and I enjoy reading and their stuff and listening to what they have to say. I think
Dawkins tends to be very sloppy when it comes to the Bible. I personally don't think he's really
read it. But one of his things is the Bible is written by a bunch of goat herders. And we have
so passed beyond that with our stock markets and microchips. Why do we have to pay attention
to the Bible? I mean, that was written for society with goats. So that's his argument. Boy,
does he miss the point? Actually, what are you even talking about? The Bible isn't a text on science.
If it were, then Dawkins is right. We don't need to pay attention to it at all. But it's not a book
on science. It's not a book on modern economic systems. It's a wisdom book. And wisdom is attached
to the eternal. That doesn't change. What we learn is wisdom is very hard to get. And it doesn't
matter if you're a goat herder or a stockbroker or a astrophysicist or a PhD in comparative
religions, there is no guarantee that any of you have wisdom. And if a goat herder did get wisdom,
you better damn well listen. Because if you jettison the wisdom that he's obtained, you do it
at your own peril. And it turns out, some of these stories in the Bible were not created by the
Israelites. They were inherited by the Israelites. These stories have been passed down for thousands
of years with great effort and great sacrifice and great suffering. And they're being retained.
Why are they being retained? Because they're the eternal nature of the human condition.
And we throw them away at our own peril. And we do throw them away. Let me just give one example.
Again, I'm really off on a completely different thing. But you ask the question, Luther, so shame on
you. But what is the first story about the first human being in the Bible? In the book of Genesis,
what is the first story of the first human being? Do you know?
Well, yes, it's the Garden of Eden story, isn't it? So that's what I would think. But it turns out,
Adam and Eve are not human beings. They're not born from the womb. They're archetypes of human
beings. Right? Adam's created by clay. Eve is created by a rib. They're not even put on this planet
or this earth. Right? They're put in a sacred space, a garden, which is something different. It's
guarded by cherubim and a flaming sword. Right? And so Adam and Eve are the archetypes of humanity,
the prototypes of humanity. They're not the first human beings in the Bible. Who are the first human
beings in the Bible? Can you take that one? All right. So here's what happens. This is what the
Bible gives us. The curtain opens. We have this majestic, grand, glorious creation scene where God
Himself creates the earth. And then the first story of the first human beings is about murder
for gain. And it's not only about murder for gain. It's about filial murder for gain, a brother
killing a brother with a rock. What happened? And then the first story after that about the
first human civilization. We get the first human beings, the first family, and it's a story about
murder. And then we get the next story about the first city state and it's the story of Noah.
Right? And blood and horror is drenching the earth. It's so bad. The God who just
hated this miraculous creation looks down and he can say only one thing.
Though it is, it is terrible. Right? Well, look, this is, this is rather genius.
What we're being shown, this is the first of all the stories to pick about introducing humanity.
The writers of the Tanakh or Old Testament pick these ones and they're ones that have been probably
handed down for thousands of years before there is even an Abraham because generation after generation
people have noticed something about the eternal nature of human nature and that is we each of us
are filled with good and evil and you have to pay attention to it. You have to look at it because
if you don't, evil will take over. One of the transcendent themes in the Bible miraculously
is all human activity exists within entropy. All of it. The individual, the society, the government,
it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if you're a goat herder or if you're a post-modernist
lecturer at Harvard or Oxford. It doesn't matter. All your human systems exist within entropy
and you have to look at it or else evil takes over and if you don't look at it, sure enough sooner
or later brother is going to be killing brother. This, by the way, is a contradiction to the modern
secular view. The biblical view is not the modern secular view. The biblical view is attached to
eternal archetypes of stories that have been handed down for thousands of years and the modern
secular view is something new. The modern secular view is, you know what, the human beings essentially
good and all we need to do is reformat society if we have the right bureaucracy, the right government,
the right social program, we can create the utopia. Well, this is a conflict of visions
and so the biblical view is not the modern secular view and therefore you have to make
a choice. Do I go with the goat herder or do I go with Richard Dawkins and I am proposing to you
actually the safe bed is the goat herder. That's the safe bed because that story has been passed down
for thousands of years. That's thousands of generations of people who are passing down the
eternal nature of human nature so you pay attention to it and don't lose it. Well, all right, so
look this has nothing to do with astral theology. This is about, you know, transcendent themes that
are picked up in the bible and are passed down in the bible that are retained even in the literacy of
the bible and they are very important. That's why I mean to this day the bible is a wisdom text
and so again if a goat herder has wisdom that we need we better pay attention. It doesn't matter
if he or she is a goat herder. The vocation is irrelevant. I mean wisdom has nothing to do with
smart. One of the story after story in the bible is about smart people without wisdom. David
is the story's righteous person and he ends up being this horrible king because he lost,
he didn't keep his eye on the ball. He dropped the goat herder and he said I'm going to go with
Dawkins, right? And the next thing you know cats and dogs are living together. Uriah is killed
an entire platoon of people or he's a mass murderer and the kingdom starts tearing itself apart.
That's history people and that's the grand drama of human being that the bible presents and I think
it's a very sobering and yet insightful critical view that is worth retaining. Anyway, I'm done with
my soapbox. You can edit all of that out if you want and I can get back after theology.
Absolutely. In fact what we're going to do John is because you because you offered the question
for a hundred million dollars and you answered it to a sufficient I think sufficient. We'll just pay
you in additional thirty forty minutes. How about that? All right. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. That's it.
Go for it John. All right. Well I'm just saying you know we're we have genre confusion when it comes
to these sacred texts and we're constantly misaligning the genre and the origin of the text
and what it is and even the atheists do it. They're making arguments against a text that doesn't
exist. I mean it's the text they've created to make an argument against and which is fair because
it turns out you know a lot of believers do the same thing. So I mean this is what we do it's human
nature. All right. So astrothiology. We've talked about Mithraism but it turns out to be a system
of religious structure. We find astrothiology in Egypt. We find it in Mesopotamia. We find it
in Mycenae. We find it in the Greco-Roman mystery religions. I would argue we certainly find it in
early Israelite religion because that's that's what it is. And we probably find it in early
Christianity. We do have some major problems though guys. I mean the Bible has been purged
of all these motifs. So if you were to ask me show me proof beyond reasonable doubt that
astrothiology is in the Bible I couldn't do it. I what we get in the Bible is echoes and scraps
because it's been reformatted and and not only has it been reformatted but you know we're reading it
in an English translation which reformats it. I mean and it doesn't matter if you have a German
or Spanish translation it's not the original Hebrew. We don't even know what the original Hebrew
was in the earliest Hebrew manuscripts we have are the Dead Sea Scrolls. And you know and a lot of the
Dead Sea Scrolls deal with something that's very different from our conceptual view of religion.
And so the bottom line is Christianity is the first world religion that begins in full literacy
and it's the first world religion that begins by being managed by tax. Judaism invented that right
they created that after the destruction of their temple but Christianity enhanced the tradition of
the Jews their literate tradition and it starts out as a literate tradition. Well there's still
going to have I would argue there's still going to have secret initiations and cosmological structures
that's still the conceptual world of the turn of the millennium. The Book of Revelation is a testament to that
but it's going to be very hard to prove. Well you asked me to talk about astral theology in the
Bible and so what I did is I emailed you a couple of papers that was published in Cosmos and Logos
Journal of Myth, Religion and Folklore. On the left is the author John McHugh, Howard Ryan's ability to
walk upon the sea was ascribed to Jesus. He wrote an article, I should say John McHugh, he's a very smart guy,
he got his masters in Near Eastern Studies, he's a trained archaeologist and he's on my
archaeoastronomy team. I met this guy through our academic arguments over these papers
and he actually lives in Salt Lake City and so we met at the library, he loves going to the library,
I love going to the library, we met at the library and we had our discussions and arguments,
we've become friends and so now he works with me with the southwestern petroglyphs in astronomy
but so he wrote a paper and basically the thrust of his paper can be summarized in two precepts.
There are three gospel accounts about Jesus walking on water and they have radical differences
in them and he believes, one, the gospel accounts descend from two esoteric systems in the ancient
world, the first being that the 48 classical constellations of the Greeks were thought to be
historical events, this is true, many Greeks believed that the constellations were a form of
history, that things happened in the ancient past and then they were memorialized in the stars
and the other thing is a bit more esoteric, it's called Mesopotamian heaven writing or
constellation writing, Lumashy Lumashdi and basically Mesopotamian scribes recognized that,
I mean this is where we get astrology in the first place, they recognized that certain stars had
archetypal powers over the earth and why would they think that, well quite simply this is part
of the oral imprinting press, you see a certain star rise on the horizon and when it does the
nile floods, when it does this plant grows, when it does that fruit is ready to be picked,
as these stars rise and set through the season all sorts of changes are happening on the earth,
well in oral cultures they analogize that with what's causing these changes on the earth just
happens to be the stars, it's that star right there that rises and at the same time this
plant grows, that star must be influencing this plant, that's how they thought, now you know
we can say that's incorrect but I'm just saying this is how the birth of astrology occurs, people
start recognizing heaven earth relationships because oral peoples pour all their intellectual
resources into observing nature and they created a science, now astrology is in modern science to
us, in fact we kind of laugh at it but astrology is oral science, they used all the same methodologies
of science, observation, testing, hypotheses to create a this massive astrological network
where they tried to create heaven earth correspondences and then they had the insight, hey
we can may even foretell the future if we pay attention to the stars because the stars themselves
are a form of writing and they called it writing, lumashi, and and so it was the divine writing
the gods, that's what they thought the stars and constellations were and there was a esoteric
system where the name of a certain constellation would have several puns attached to it, homophones,
words that sound the same, spelled differently, etc and it's through those puns that you could create
associations that might prognosticate what was going to happen in the battle but for the
for the sake of john mccuse thesis he asserts that through the punning of mesopotamian constellation
writing we get all the motifs of the story in the new testament jesus walking on water
