Again, Dr. Richard Siemiller joins me here at Myth, Vision, Podcast to discuss Jesus'
translation fable and his book, Resurrection, Reception, and Early Christianity. On page 35,
specifically, there's a larger sub-themed category in which several figures, hundreds of years before
Jesus, all the way down contemporaneous to Jesus, the Caesars, for example, and even post the time
of Jesus, they were doing this in the Greek and Roman world. Christianity came out of
the Greek and Roman world. Now, I know several apologists will pull the apologetic that
these were staunch Jews to the point where they had nothing. They wanted to cut themselves off
from a Hellenistic world, but we know that's not the case. We've gone into several reasons
in different episodes. Let me read you a few of the sub-thames before we get into the interview
with Dr. Miller.
Translation associated with a river, translation associated with a mountain, odious and dubious
alternative account, taken up by the winds or clouds, feigned translation. In Chapter 2 of
his book, he goes through at least a hundred, if not more, Greek or Roman figures who had
missing bodies that fit some of these sub-categories in all classicists without batting an eye,
recognize, oh, they became a God. This is a translation fable of a human mortal who then
becomes a God. Who else was a human mortal that ascends on high and his name is now above every
name, meaning he's a higher status than he was before, a metamorphosis has taken place,
or an apotheosis has happened to Jesus. And when I say it walks like a duck, talks like a duck,
quacks like a duck and the apologist bat their eyes and laugh it off, they're not really paying
attention if they don't see what we're seeing. Dr. Miller, I gave the Romulus list at the end of
our last episode, but there was even a better, I guess you'd say, signal list that even goes
broader than the Romulus translation fable, which we do find parallels, very significant
parallels to Jesus. But you on page 35 of Resurrection Reception talk about translation
sub-themes before you get into your gallery of so many Greek and Roman heroes and people that
become gods and various different kind of figures, and they don't all match. Well, what the heck is
that about? I mean, wouldn't you expect if they're translation fables, Dr. Miller, that every one
of them would check all of the boxes and just, everyone of them had ascension errors, everyone
was taking the cloud, like why not, why did they all have the same, because then the Christians
could just go, okay, okay, you win. But why not? Yeah, yeah, no, it really comes down to a fundamental,
I think, a misapprehension. Oftentimes you find it in a lot of different discussion about the
antiquity in terms of comparisons and people, you know, parallelism, this kind of thing. These
are very soft categories that don't really have a lot of strength in terms of describing and explaining.
I want to go deeper in that. I want to get into the language, because at that point,
the competence rises considerably and starts to approach 100%, at least in terms of human
cognition. And so this is a cognitive approach. How do people recognize a certain story as a
certain kind of story? And so basically, I'll give you one quick, this is a story that comes out of
Buddhist, ancient Buddhist teaching, actually. It's said that as Alexander was traveling out to
the east to India, he met a Buddhist monk. And this is a pretty famous story, you can go look it up
online, met a Buddhist monk, and he was supposedly a philosopher, according to Alexander the Great,
regarding his philosopher, and stopped and said, I want to hear some philosophy from this wise man
or something like this. And so pressed him. And so this Buddhist philosopher came up to him and he said,
well, how did you get here, Alexander? And he said, well, I came by this chariot. He said,
no, you didn't. He said, of course, I did, you see it right here in front of me. And he said,
well, where is its chariotness? And you could feel the pause in the text.
He tried to describe what's there. And well, it's got this and that. The conclusion of it is
basically that the chariotness is in the person's mind. There's nothing inherently or essentially
chariot like about this particular configuration of jumbled things that were put together with a
wheel and this kind of construct. And so the same thing can go like they would say with a chair,
you know, you ask, you know, where is its chariotness? Well, it's a construct in our minds.
There's nothing inherently chair about a chair. It's that's something that we carry around in
our minds about this particular configuration of glue and wood and whatever's there. And so
the same thing goes with anything in terms of cognition. Wittgenstein, the famous philosopher
at Cambridge in prior generations, gave the famous analogy of the game. And basically,
in that he's trying to say, he's teaching a very important point here. He's saying,
how do you define a game? What are the essential defining elements of a game? What is it that every
game has in common? Tell me. And there really isn't any answer to that because no matter
what you he's got you there, because no matter what you answer, oh, it's got players. Okay, well,
he'll he'll come up with an example where there aren't any, you know, oh, it's got winning. He'll
come up with an example where no one wins, you know, you know, in every particular, you know,
no matter what you come up with, in terms of what a game is, you end up with there's a there's a
counter example. And so what you so basically, then how does the tradition of the game when
you're creating a new game? How do you know it's a game? What is its gameness?
And so basically, you have to rely on this cluster of variously recurring ideas that may or may not
be present in every permutation of what a game is. But there's enough there to know, okay,
that's a game, I know what a game is, we just got out of board, there's dice, I know what's going
on here, I'm going to categorize this as a game. Okay, we don't have any problem with that in terms
of mental cognition. In fact, that's kind of the genetic work of our natural environment. Anyway,
that's how we're wired neurologically. When we see the species of something, when we see our own
children, for instance, they're like us, but they're not precisely us. Right. And so we get this
argument oftentimes, when it comes to the New Testament, where if Jesus doesn't match up on
every single point all the way down the list, they throw out the comparison or that there was
a mimetic genetic relationship, which is a stronger kind of idea there, they throw it out kind of out
of hand. I think that's not only foolish, but it's reckless and vandalizes the discussion in so many
ways. And so how there is no other way, you would not expect Jesus to line up precisely with each
one of these, just like in the Garden variety examples that I give in chapter two,
none of the Greek and Roman line up with each other precisely. No, each one has its own motifs
and things and its own signals. And but there are recurring themes that bubble up over and over again
throughout them. And but not none of them have all of them. And so when we get to Jesus, yeah,
he's got a cluster of eight or nine or whatever, but he doesn't have all 13. Well, eight or nine
scoring very, very high on the list, because some of those only have two or one, but we're
correctly interpreted. And we know this from the text and interpreted by modern classes is correctly.
Right. And so they're not confused about any of this and neither should we be. And so yeah,
this gets into an interesting topic. I didn't know where this discussion would go. And that is the
falsifiability of certain things. So people are approaching this going, they already are just
going, Nope, I'm not interested. Nope. I'm not granting it. And then I even had a discussion
with a well known Christian apologist named Michael Jones. He's a pretty large Christian
apologist audience, like 300,000 subscribers. And it was about, I would use this kind of
rhetoric, it walks like a duck, it talks like a duck, it's a duck. And him and the other Christian
apologists I talked to just kind of like, they don't like that, they make fun of it, that I make
that statement, they're online, like, you know, posts and stuff. And they think it's funny. I think
it's funny that they make fun of it. I think it's funny because they know that that duck is quacking
and they know that it's walking and they know what I'm saying. If it is the case, it's a problem
for what they're trying to conclude. And it's more than a problem. It's the end of it. It's
the end of it. So they go, a lot of them will go, ah, it's not walking like a duck. And even when
they tried to bend over backwards, one of them went, okay, so what? So let's just say that is the
case. Well, what did you expect God to do? Like, wouldn't he want to make himself known by working
within the same fictive narrative of the rest of the world to reveal himself? And one of my buddies,
Derek Bennett, your buddy too, was just kind of being humorous and said, like, no, God of the
universe, all powerful, couldn't come up with something new. He had to use the same fictive
framework the rest of the myths and legends we're using. So one of my buddies who's kind of clever,
Caleb Jackson, in his response, was like, well, how do you falsify something like that? Like,
Dennis McDonald's mimesis are your memetic connections. How can you falsify something
like that? It seems almost like the subjective eye of the beholder can kind of just draw these
parallels. And that's how they would consider them, just parallels. Allison will show you can
make a parallel almost out of anything. And therefore, it has no really bearing on the reality
of the thing. You mentioned, though, we got something more than just parallel. Can you tell
us a little bit more about that? Oh, yeah, yeah. So, well, first off, I think it's important to
set up the framework. People talk about Hellenism. I don't really know your apologetic buddies. I've
completely out of that discussion at this point. But to understand Hellenism, what was Hellenism?
What are we talking about there? What did that mean? What was that? I think it's troubling that
you've got modern defenders of the religion that don't do the rigorous work to get back into those
kind of questions. It's sort of like, let's start with our conclusions and run a beeline to however
fast we can erect an argument to defend it. And bypassing all of the hard work that we take to
really understand what was going on in the ancient world. And to me, that's upsetting. I don't
interface with that, but I want to give you my idea on that. So, Hellenism in the ancient world
meant precisely the imitation of the Greeks. It didn't mean anything else. It never meant
anything else. It was deliberate. We wanted to be like the Greeks. That's what the ancients thought.
We want to be like the Greeks. And so, let's imitate them. And they did it in every possible way,
in dress, in literature, in art, in architecture, in any number of ways. Yeah, in terms of how
this was not just an influence, as it's often perceived and portrayed in specific writings
in the field. This was a deliberate and intentional effort to become like the Greeks in terms of
working with their cultural capital. You could not have Savoie Faire have cultural capital in the
ancient world. The way that you expressed that or achieved it was by your expression of Greekness.
And so, this was deliberate. And so, they would take on, they would take these texts and use them
as part of their, as how they, in terms of the ingredients in their recipes. Now, it was new
recipes in the Hellenistic world, but it was using these older prior ingredients. And so,
how do you falsify that? I think it's a wrong-headed question. How do you falsify anything in terms
of ancient language? If I were to give you the Greek lexicon, how do you falsify that any particular
word in there meant this or that? Ploy on meant both. Well, how do we know that?
With certainty. To what extent can we achieve certainty on that question?
We can't teleport or time travel back into that world, so how do we know? Well, we look at many,
many instances of the use of this word in relation to many other words that we're making a lot of
assumptions about that are well-established. I'm not questioning that. But the falsifiability of
it, how do you prove that, you know, how do you disprove, you know, that Ploy on meant both?
Well, you'd have to go and find all of these other, but you're not exhaustive. So, maybe in some
context it did mean that, or maybe it didn't, you know? So, you end up with this kind of fuzziness
that I think the theological certitude and dogmatism of the last century is driving and is kind of the
bedrock of that. It's this obsession with this kind of rationalistic, how you say, approach to
argumentation that really is divorced from the kind of scientific rigor that we would put on
ancient language and cognition. How do you understand, for instance, a reference if you're
watching a Pixar film to, say, Star Wars or something like that, say, in Shrek, you know,
that it's kind of like a montage. If you go from beginning to beginning to end, there's a multi,
there's different audiences that are meant for these kinds of films. There's the children enjoying
it at one level, and adults enjoying it at another level, and maybe even teens at another, still.
And some of these references and illusions, they're not lost in anyone in our culture,
because we are acculturated within this world. This is our contract as a people to understand
and to understand how these different linguistic signals would have registered. That's our contract
as participants in this world. And so, in this particular society. And so, when you participate
in a language, you are ascending to that contract in some ways. You're participating in a group
collective understanding of what language means and how it works. And that was probably the most
profound insight that, for Nanda Sociera, the founder of structural linguistics, as we know it,
linguistics and semiotic theory. That was, I think, his most profound insight.
Like if I was to move to Mexico or somewhere down in South America, and I began to need to
learn their language, not only why I learned some things about their language, but how it connects
to their cultural aspects or what they practice and their festivities, etc. Like even in their
colloquial little discussions or whatever they might be having, there's some nuance to their
particular language. And in Greek, the same is said about this Hellenism, you're bringing us back to.
So, you brought up Pixar, and you brought up modern, fun, fictional kid movies. And let's just
say you said this one went to breakfast, it was, may the force be with you? Like, how do you falsify
that that isn't actually a reference to Star Wars? What if he doesn't mean that? How do you know
that that's exactly what he meant? You can't prove without a doubt with certainty that they're
actually just trying to allude to Star Wars. Maybe they meant something else. Maybe they're,
maybe there's some subjective thing you can't peek behind their brain. And they meant,
there's an actual force here. And we're trying to say, we hope that that force is with you.
How do you know that this isn't a reference? Like, where do you draw the line? At some point,
you've got to go, okay, pretty, come on, that's Star Wars. Well, when you see it's hard to kick
against the goads, I mean, how to get falsified that and say Euripides, Bacchai, Dionysus,
when do you stop playing games and go, okay, this is definitely signaling Euripides, or
Romulus Ascension, or whatever the example, Socrates' death, etc. Right, right. Now, it's
supposed, and I think I've said this before, that the earliest Christians were either a blank
slate, or from some unimaginably alien place, and now dropped into the major urban environments of
the Greek East, and we're just finding all of this completely offensive and inexplicable,
and just avoiding even thinking about any of it. And it was not part of their,
no, this is where they grew up. I don't know where you grew up, but I grew up in this culture,
and there are a whole bunch of things that are part of that, that we all share in common. We
know what cartoons are, we know what Bugs Bunny was, we know what Abraham Lincoln is, we know what
the price of right is, we know the price is right, we know what all these different things are,
because we were bred and born and raised, reared in this culture, this is our operating system,
so to speak. And so they couldn't get rid, that wasn't erased when they, in fact,
that operating system, the software of early Christianity was loaded onto that operating
system and ran. If I might pierce in here just to give you an idea of why I think they're asking
this question, I think the reason the question gets asked is because they want this to be what
actually happened. So when you're in the mindset of someone of apologetics, as you and I have both
come from, we want to think what we're reading is historically what happened, historiography again,
which we're going to get into the genre later in our episodes to deal with what's going on.
But when you think something actually happened, in their mind, it's you're saying this signals myth,
legend, story, and mimetically in some way in the Greek world, I'm saying I want this to happen.
And in their mind, they kind of, the ones that are trying to be sophisticated and really want to
try and be as honest that I can see are going, okay, well, what if it is Greek mimetic? Well,
even if we grant that, it wouldn't seem to say that this didn't happen too. So they want to have
the mimetic signal and historical what happened both, they want to eat their cake and have it too,
right, that idea. So they want to go, well, just because it's mimetic doesn't mean that what's being
mentioned here doesn't have historical memory or kernel or actually happened. And that's
troubling for me, because when I'm reading Matthew, let's just go there. And I'm reading about Jesus
in the wilderness being tempted for 40 days. I see Moses all over this. One can go, yeah,
well, Jesus might have just like Moses decided to go out in the wilderness fast for 40 days and
be tempted by Satan. And then he comes back and he's got this power of the Holy Spirit,
he's overcome. And that sounds very fictive, even Allison grants and goes like, if there's a memory,
it's just he was an exorcist. And I'm like, how do you know that? Like, I don't know how he can
draw that conclusion from the story, other than the fact that he has power over Satan.
So casting out demons can be powerful. Say somehow he interprets it that way. I don't see
how you can do that. I personally just don't. That's a guess on his part, my opinion.
But I'm reading that and I'm going, how do you say this did happen? I mean,
more likely this didn't happen to me than it did. And the same thing is happening with the Greeks,
like it's more likely this is what's happening is that it's medically signaling and drawing from
what you're describing in your work, you would need better data to prove what it's saying actually
did happen rather than it didn't. Right. No, you have to work against that. You'd have to work
double time really to differentiate, which is not what we're seeing happening in the earliest
Christian writings. They're actually saying, no, we're actually dependent on that. They try to work
with that and say, well, the prior antecedents or whatever they were inspired by demons or
something prolactically trying to upset what was the true and they mean true. And I mean,
we need to bracket what they mean by that word a little bit. But what they're doing though is saying,
this is dependent on that in some way, we're not doing anything new here in terms of that.
And then they try to, you know, out of the other side of their mouth, try and discredit everything
for it because it's upsetting their project. But they kind of want both sides a little bit there.
But at the same time though, they're not creating a historiological argument. Right.
That's not there. And so they're creating more of a rhetorical argument. Oh, as demons,
it was just assertions that they're making. They're not getting down to any kind of hard,
evidential argument. And so, yeah, I think that basically you'd have to work again. It'd be kind
of like if I were to find up in my grandfather's attic, say, some of his writings, and I pulled
out a piece of paper there just out of nowhere. And, oh, grandpa wrote something, let me read it.
And it says something about, I just read a few lines out of it and says something about,
and the man had a cape on, came out of a telephone booth, and flew into the air to fight crime
or whatever, you know. How many words into that would it take for me to recognize that as a superhero
trope? You know, I have no difficulty in that at all. Can I give you an example you brought
up to? It's like a guy who says, I'm going to accurately give you, others have taken to account
this, and I'm going to write a better gospel. And then in verse 11 of that same opening,
you have angels flying everywhere. It's like, how historically reliable is this?
Yeah, no, we're not getting rigorous there. I mean, he says the impeccable eyewitness account,
and it's kind of tacked on as a jewelry item at the beginning, and then not given any serious
treatment throughout the rest of Luke. And so it doesn't compare with the proamium of the
prologues of any of the major history works that we know of. It's this little tiny blip at the
beginning. It kind of reminds me of the Blair Witch Project or something like that, just kind of
just this mockery almost of the genre. But then at verse 11, you've got angels flying around with
not the slightest thought of trying to discuss the implausibility of that being the case or any kind
of alternate accounts. There's no critical weighing of evidence. None of that's going on.
You don't see any of the kind of rigor that you would expect in the hallmarks of an ancient
historiographical work. And so you're sort of just immersed. The reader must have been favorably,
was expected to be favorably biased to these stories, densely immersed in this kind of myth and
folk belief and tradition within a cultic environment, not within an archival historiographical
kind of context, like say the Library of Alexandria or something like that. This is not the context
where these documents would have circulated. So for the audience who's watching, stay tuned.
Of course, thanks for supporting us on the Patreon. But we're actually going to get on to what I
would think is a way of falsifying the historical point of view as we go on into genre and various
other discussions later with Dr. Miller. Because what they're asking for, I think we can give them
their answer, what they're looking for. But it's a matter of dealing with what is this material?
How we approach the New Testament is going to change how we're trying to conclude about it.
And I think if we can get it fitted in its proper genre or at least its proper context
and then situated by looking heuristically at all of the different genre, which is your critique
of Litwa saying a new category just spawned out of nowhere. And here it is. We're going to get
into that later in these episodes. Thank you. Thanks. I hope you liked my dead Richard Miller
in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe and never forget we are Ms. Vision.
