Come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come.
Come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come
come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come
come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come,
come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come,
come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come, come,
come, come, come, come, come, come, come,
come, come, come,
scroll scholar, Dr. Robert Eisenman will join us. So lots of exciting people coming
on the show. We've got something new on today's podcast. Questions from you, our listeners,
will take center stage. So there's lots more planned, including a newsletter with information
on upcoming shows and guests, updates on past guests, profiles of explorers, researchers,
scholars, mystics, historians, and of course your input in engaging our guests. So come check
us out on Facebook at MythVision Podcast. Subscribe to our YouTube channel so you don't miss a
show. And we are asking you for your participation, your contribution, your support in helping us at
MythVision Podcast to continue bringing you the finest programming. Our PayPal accounts and
Patreon accounts are on your screen. So please contribute, donate, whatever you can. No amount
is too small. Won't you partner with us at MythVision? So Derek, I'm excited about today's show.
Would you please tell us about our very special guests? Yes, indeed. He holds a special place
in my journey as well. If we didn't bump into him, I think we'd be lost in the literality. But
you'll find out more about that as time goes by. He is the author of Mythos and Cosmos, John Knight
Lundwall. He holds a doctorate in comparative myth and religion from the Joseph Campbell School of
Comparative Myth Pacifica Graduate Institute out of California. He is a writer, author,
lecturer, the managing editor for Cosmos and Logos, Journal of Myth, Religion, and Folklore,
and a founding board member in the Utah Valley Astronomy Club, a nonprofit organization that
partners with state and national parks to run their astronomy programs. He is the project
leader, now I might butcher this, I'll try not to, the project leader of the Archea Astronomy
Project of Fremont Indian State Park and has put together a team of researchers to investigate the
Archeo Astronomy of Fremont Petroglyphs. He is also a tour leader to ancient sites and has two
trips forthcoming, I might butcher these, Chaco Canyon and an authoritarian England tour. I believe
he's speaking of King Arthur concept, but I could be totally wrong. I'd love to have some input on
that from you. His major area of research is on the epistemology of Orality and the creation of
ancient myth. He lives in Utah and is an avid backyard astronomer, astrophotographer and hiker of
the outdoors. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. John Knight-Lunnwall, author of Mythos and Cosmos. How's
it going, John? Good. Good. That's quite the introduction. Do I know this guy? Oh, we passed it
to you for you to introduce him. Yes, well, that's all true. I'm glad to be back on your show. Thanks,
guys, for having me. Yes, sir. Luther, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to go into the first
question. All right. How important, and I want to start out with this, because I find it quite
interesting. What you do is very unique, and I know there's no need to drag on these questions. I
just want to open the door and pretty much let you loose, because there's so much we learned on the
last show. And if you haven't checked that out, be sure to check us out. Our name was the Water Boys
with capital W, capital T, capital B, capital Z. We changed the name over. Something a little more
in the region of what we like to research and discuss and bringing that to you. So you want to
check the last one we did with Dr. John Knight-Lunnwall. It's really, really interesting hearing
about Orality, but he's going to go deep into some Astro Theology tonight, and I don't want to spoil
it. So how important, just starting out, is the distinction between Orality and Literality in all
the cultures, or ancient cultures, and then something happened. How important is that?
It's fundamental. Look, if you want to investigate the difference between oral thinking and
literate thinking, probably the best book to start with isn't my book. It's Walter Ong's Orality
and Literacy. And he writes in that book that there's a permanent epistemological divide between
Orality and Literacy, is that there are aspects of the ancient oral world that we have permanently
lost because there are functions and structures in oral cultures that are designed around
oral cognitive processes. And our brains have been rewired. We've completely lost that.
But the more you investigate it, the more you try to put the pieces together, the more ancient
history starts making a lot more sense. And for the most part, we've written off ancient history,
prehistory as just a bunch of primitive howling barbarians. And that's really not what's going on.
But also, I mean, your question deals with sort of the cognitive model that people exist in. I'm
going to be talking about this in my presentation tonight. In fact, I'm going to begin my presentation
by talking about how the medium is the message, how we communicate turns out to be more important
than what we communicate. And so I will get into that. My discussion focuses on Orality and Literacy,
but it turns out, guys, we are living in a post-literate world. We're no longer a literate
culture. We're the internet email texting, tweeting audio visual culture. And our brains are
in the process of continually rewiring themselves, adapting to the new mediums by which we communicate.
And so the question is, is this next evolution in information processing, this computer,
online audio visual medium, is that going to increase our cognitive abilities? Or is it going
to decrease our cognitive abilities? Or is it going to do both? And the preliminary evidence
shows that it's doing both. So it turns out to be critically important. And when I start my
PowerPoint presentation, we'll get right into showing examples of why it's important.
Sounds great to me. Luther, did you want to go ahead and add something, brother?
John, you've already addressed part of what I was going to ask, but the very format that we're
using tonight is a kind of a testament to literality, because we have a question from
one of our listeners, and that wasn't even possible just a few years ago to bring in somebody's
question long distance. I'm broadcasting from one city, Derek's from another, John, you have
another, our listener is in a fourth city. And when you look at the implications of all that
coming together in the information age, it's fascinating. When I was in graduate school,
people had estimated that there was some 50,000 stimuli that we processed each and every day.
And you know, as well as I do, John, that that number is constantly revised upward.
So in this post-literate society, the question from our listener, and this is from Ann Marathon
of Charleston, South Carolina, she asks, how important is the current move from
literality to post-literality as compared with the move in ancient times from orality to
literality? Thank you for your question, Ann, by the way, Dr. Lundwall.
Well, again, I'm going to start my presentation by answering that question.
So it turns out to be fundamentally important. How we communicate turns out to be more important
in what we communicate, because how we communicate structures society. And so when we get on with
the presentation, I'll give some graphics and explanations for that. But you know, John, if
you want to take us in, brother, go ahead. And Ann, we're right here. This question is going to
be answered right here for you, sweetheart. So thank you for the question. And for our audience,
be sure to ask questions because we're really listening. John, if you want to share the screen,
take this thing. We're ready to go into your backyard, brother.
All right. Do you see my screen? I got it. All right. Well, let me begin.
I'm going to begin. You know, tonight, you asked me to speak on astrothiology.
So I've kind of divided my presentation. The first half is all context. The second half
will get into astrothiology. I actually have a tremendous amount of information to share.
So, you know, I'll get through some of it probably just to save time. And maybe there's
some of it I'll never get to. But to answer Ann's question, I thought I would begin tonight's
presentation by bringing up a really interesting book published in 1964 by Marshall McLuhan called
Understanding Media. It sounds boring, but it's a good page-turner. And McLuhan brought up a very
interesting, articulated, a very interesting insight that can be summarized by this phrase,
you may have heard it, the medium is the message. And what he meant by that is, you know, we human
beings are communicative. Consciousness is language. And so we're always sharing messages
with each other. And we focused on the message. That's what we want. And his insight is actually
the medium by which we share the message is more important than the message itself, because the
medium has social, religious, intellectual, political, economic implications. The medium
structures society. It structures the social, religious, intellectual, political, and economic
structures of society. So let me give an example of how the medium structures society. And I thought
I'd give an example of a water well, because you guys were once the water boys, but now it's the
myth vision. So, you know, next time I'll give a different metaphor. But here in the upper right
hand corner, there is this well that I've circled in red. And it's in this little desert oasis in
a rural village out in the Middle East. And of course, everyone goes the well for the water.
That's what everyone wants. And so in this metaphor, the water is the message and the well,
that's just a hole in the ground that someone's dug. So how in the world would the hole in the
ground be more important than the water, which is what every everyone wants? Well, according to
McLuhan's insight, the medium structures social relations. Well, look what's going on around
this well, you build a well, and suddenly everybody in the village comes to it, and everybody in the
neighboring village comes to it. And this is where now you meet everybody else in the village,
in neighboring village, where you share your news, where you find out who's doing what,
who's doing good, who needs help, who's getting married in some cultures, your ranger marriages
here. And so suddenly, all your social interaction happens at the well, because the well is where
you go three or four times a day to get your water. And actually, this isn't, there's a somewhat
interesting story. In the 1970s, there's a rural village in India that got their water from a well,
and the government came in and said, hey, we're going to install plumbing. And we're going to give
you guys indoor running water in every one of your domiciles. Well, we in the West think that's great.
And they thought, oh, yeah, sure, that's going to save us a lot of work. And so they installed
the pipes, they installed the plumbing, people got indoor running water. And within a year,
the villagers revolted and tore out all the pipes. And they did that because
everybody stopped talking to each other. They had, for generations, been meeting at the well
and sharing everybody's, you know, what everybody needed in the news of the community.
And suddenly that stopped. And the elders of community realized, you know, the payoff of
running water inside my house is not better than the community we have at the well. So they literally
tore out the pipes. So I mean, that's a real example of how, you know, in this case, a well
structures society. Interestingly enough, if you read the Bible, every time a man wants to marry
a woman, what's he do? He goes to a well. You know, in the ancient world, the well was the
version of the ancient singles bar. That's where he went and met people. And so
if I were rewriting that, John, you know, I'd say that Jesus met the Samaritan woman at the singles
bar. That's right. Funny thing is I met my wife at the beach. So there you go. That's a very big well.
McLuhan says the medium structures economic resources. Well, look what happens. This upper
right picture, not only is the well there that's circled, but they built these cisterns filled
with water and now they bring their cattle and their livestock to the well to give their livestock
water. Well, you got several villagers doing that. And suddenly the well is where you start trading,
buying and selling your livestock, right? And in the ancient world, very often near the well,
a marketplace is not because not buying and selling your livestock. Hey, everyone's trading
and selling there. I'm going to trade and sell, you know, whatever I make. And so the marketplace
gets established near the well. And of course, if there is a marketplace near the well, the medium
structures political power. If you're the chief din or the king of the city state, well, now you
can tax that market. So you want to control the real estate around the well and the roads running
in and out of the well. And so now you do. You put your army, your guards, and you control the
real estate surrounding the well, and then you tax the market. McLuhan mentions that the medium
structures thought. Now, this is for this metaphor, maybe a little more difficult.
And perhaps to explain it, I'll go to the other one, the content of one medium will be another
medium. This actually is a really important insight. And that's what this bottom right picture is that
the bottom right picture is a natural watering hole that occurs before the well. So before
people developed the ability to dig functioning wells, they had to know where water naturally
collected. Well, they knew where water naturally collected because they poured their intellectual
resources into observing nature. When was the rain season, the dry season? Where does water
collect? What plants appear around the water so that you can find them and see them and know, hey,
you know, there's a tree there, there's probably water there. What animals migrate into the watering
pools? You know, so you're looking at weather patterns, migratory patterns, natural patterns.
This all tells you where water is, right? And so what happens is you observe all those things,
and that helps you structure where you're going to get your water, your thinking. And then you
develop the technology of digging a hole and creating a well. And suddenly, all the intellectual
resources you've put in finding your watering holes is transformed. You now have the watering
hole where you've put it in the middle of your village. And instead of all the divine powers of
the weather and the seasons and the animals and the plants, which reveal where the water is,
you've now got a watering hole in the middle of your village. And that's where you put your
temple, right? Because now the water represents the divine power of life. And so, interestingly
enough, in pre-Christian Europe, all the sacred sites had two things, a tree and a well. And when
Christianity took over, they cut down the tree and built a church there, but the well remained. And so
in most early European churches, invariably, you find a well next to them. Well, in the old
pre-Christian religions, the well was part of the celestial landscape. It was the divine power
that cosmicized the land. And so, literally, they would create this cosmic landscape in their sacred
sites because their thinking was wired in that way. If I can cause water to be produced here at
the site, I am unfolding the power of the waters of life into my community, and I am going to
relay the divine powers of life throughout my community.
John, you give a good example of McLuhan's dictum that the content of the new medium
is the old medium. And I am reminded of one of his classic examples dealing with cable television.
And I am going back a ways because everybody is used to satellite TV and other forms now.
But back when cable was the thing and you could get channels and that was the medium,
you would find that it was populated the cable landscape with all these
old-vision shows from the 60s and that was the old medium. So, literally, the content of the new
medium, before it comes into its own, is the old medium. And then later on, you figure out how
to uniquely use it and how it is of unique benefit. But it takes a while for that to happen. And I
would imagine the same thing happens also with religion also.
Well, we are going to get right into that. Yep, that is absolutely true.
This is going to be part of answering Ann's question. In any case, you innovate the medium
and therefore the entire structure of society will change. Your social, economic, political
thought structures will all get transformed. And so, this is McLuhan's insight. Let me give
an example, not of a watering well, but of an actual medium of information exchange and that is
the printing press. Here on the right is a model of Gutenberg's press. It is a screw type press
that was used to press cloth and fabrics and he innovated it with a movable type alloy template
where you could print letters on a page. Well, the printing press is the thing that transforms
Europe. And here are some of the consequences that occur with the invention of the printing
press, the democratization and privatization of information. Before the printing press,
there was a scribal culture. It was very expensive, laborious and time consuming in order to produce
a manuscript. They were produced on vellum, animal skin. You had to have ranchers and farmers who
raised the sheep. It was generally baby sheep or baby cows that you got the animal skin from.
Only a few people could read or write. It was expensive enough that the only people who could
afford it was the aristocracy and the church. The printing press comes along, innovation of
paper comes along and the cost of writing drops by a thousand percent. And so, now you get a mass
production of tax from a printing press. And so, tax begin to flood Europe and it is not
just reserved for the financial elite, the aristocracy or the church. It is now
relatively quite a few people. And with that comes a new economic ecosystem. There is the
markets developed around the well. Well, the printing press is created and you are no longer
having the rancher and the farmer providing your paper, the vellum. You have a manufacturing
process of creating paper and ink and metals for the alloys of creating books, your marketing of
selling the books, you get new bookstores, you get new libraries that start being created.
This actually starts changing everything because now once new libraries are created,
before only the aristocracy had their own little libraries and maybe a little library in a school
or in a monastery. But now you get a lot of libraries and people start are now able to start,
they have never read before, been able to read before. And it is interesting after the invention
of the printing press, within a century or two, all the information that they had collected,
they had been collecting old manuscripts all the way back from ancient Greece. All those manuscripts
were processed and then suddenly people could start comparing manuscripts that they have never
been able to do that before. And so the internal errors or assumptions of the old manuscripts
were quickly seen and overcome. And so within a century or two, you start getting grand innovations
theories and knowledge. And this provides you with the scientific revolution. Within a century
to after the printing press, more is learned than in the previous 20 centuries. And it's simply because
of the way the information medium has changed. Another interesting... John, if you don't mind me
mentioning, I find this a very good point to just make this emphasis. A lot of people go,
how can you say something you're finding out now when you don't hear about it through history for a
long period of time? Would this answer also why the information didn't spread? It was always
in the same hands of the same thinking people. And now we're... That's correct. Okay, okay.
That's correct. Now we have the internet. Now it's instantaneous globally.
Right? I mean, that's beyond what Gutenberg ever conceived of. But there's downsides to it too,
in that no one memorizes or reads books anymore. We just look everything up. And so
actually the deep cognitive structures of analytical thought that a primary print culture
produced is being eroded away by the multitasking of the tweet universe. And so this goes to Ann's
question. There are radical changes with every medium and the radical changes in the thought
structures of human individuals and societies with every medium. In any case, just to finish my list
here, you know, in medieval Europe, the church wasn't just a church. It's like the well. It was the
place people went to get the local news. So before the pastor began preaching, they would share,
who's getting married? Who just died? Who had a baby? Right? You got the local news. Well,
the printing press created the newspaper. And suddenly you didn't need to get the local news
at church anymore. And that began the long process of driving people out of the church,
because a lot of people went to church to get the news. And so you get a slow separation of
cultural patterns out of the church. And this actually begins the separation between church
and state as well. Well, the bottom line is, I mean, there's more examples. So there's actually
an excellent book by Elizabeth Eisenstein, The Printing Revolution in Early Europe. It
sounds boring, but actually it was one of the most interesting books I have ever read. It's a
page turner. And the bottom line is the invention of the printing press is the thing that underwrites
new innovations of thinking and information exchange, which creates the scientific and
industrial revolutions. We wouldn't have an information age without the printing press.
We wouldn't have the scientific or industrial revolutions without the printing press.
Just real quickly, Europeans weren't the first people to invent a printing press. The Chinese
actually invented a printing press and paper centuries before Gutenberg did. So the question
then is, what happened to the scientific and industrial revolutions in China? Well, we're
going to talk about that. Guys, once you understand that the medium is the message,
and whatever medium you are using to transmit information is the thing that structures society
is the thing that will model your religious, social, economic, political, intellectual,
cognitive styles and structures, then what you can do, you know, when McLuhan wrote his book,
everyone was so excited, and they all wanted to ask the question, what does this mean for the
new computer age? You wrote it in the 60s, and the computer was just invented. Everyone was
excited to look forward and to ask the question, how is the future going to unfold? Very few people
did the reverse. And that is, oh, no, that's interesting. If we look into the past and look
at the different information mediums in the past, how might that enlighten our understanding of
history and the unfolding of history? That is a very interesting question. I've spent actually
several years considering that question. So I have here on this graphic, different mediums
throughout history. We have the primary print culture here at the end with the printing press.
Before that, you had a scribal culture, the invention of the codex, and that actually changes
the way human beings process information from the scroll. Even something as minor as inventing
a book out of a scroll changes the way people think. And maybe I'll get into that. But the huge
transformation that occurs in history is the kind of alphabets we use. And sometime around the
beginning of the first millennium BCE, we get a phonetic reductive alphabet. The Greeks are the
first that we know of that really create a phonetic alphabet that has less than 30 characters,
has 24 characters, and it includes vowel representations. All the old alphabets didn't
have vowel representations. It was all just consonants. This allowed people to learn how to
read and write, because cuneiform in Egyptian, there are thousands of characters in those alphabets.
And this is why we don't get a scientific revolution out of China. Actually, China does
develop a great many technological things, but we don't get the scientific revolution the way
Europe develops a scientific revolution, because Chinese alphabets are tens of thousands of characters.
Europe's alphabets are less than 30. And so in China, it takes a lifetime to learn the alphabet.
So even if you have a printing press, you're limited by all the patterns that you have to memorize.
In Europe, with Hellenized alphabets, it's relatively easy to memorize and it's relatively
easy to learn to read and write. And then the brain starts structuring itself as
as a literate thinking. So just the innovation in the alphabet, change civilization. I'm going to
talk about that in a little bit. Like the printing press changed civilization. Well, you keep going
back and you have the introduction of writing itself, which might be the greatest invention
human beings have ever created. It surpasses the microchip and the space rocket,
because writing really does completely reorganize civilization. And then we have primary orality
societies without any writing whatsoever. So here are the different mediums in history
that I've put together. And with each innovation of the medium, you get a restructuring of society.
So let's give an example, some examples of that. I've got a rally in literacy timeline here.
Down here at the bottom is this red arrow and the modern Homo sapiens is approximately 100,000 BCE.
So we've been around for at least 100,000 years. I mean, the human brain has
been the same size for 200,000 years, but modern Homo sapiens probably 100,000 BCE.
By 70,000 BCE, there's evidence of art and symbolism. There's, you know, glyphs and
paintings on rocks. By 50,000 BCE, we've discovered ritual burials, which means some sort of religious
system, probably a belief in an afterlife, as well as complex hunting techniques. So people are
actually organizing themselves to take down big game. But it isn't until 3200 BCE plus or minus
a century that we get the invention of writing. So it's just important to note that for 97% of
human history or more, human history exists within primary orality. But what begins to
happen as soon as writing is invented? Well, at this point where writing is invented, we also get
a brand new social organization that appears in history. It's called the city state out of Mesopotamia.
Now, is that a coincidence? And I would argue absolutely not. The creation of the city state
happens simultaneously with the invention of writing. But some of these city states contain
thousands, even tens of thousands of people. You need to manage that. There's all kinds of economic
trade that's going on. You need contracts. You need some paperwork. And Luther, you mentioned
that the previous medium is the content of the new medium that gets innovated. And it takes time
for that to develop. And it turns out, after the invention of writing for the next semester,
that becomes the scribal class who standardize your alphabets and who standardize your process by
which you make contracts. And it turns out, in the ancient written record, there are tens of
thousands of clay tablets that have been found. And they're all market tablets. They're all
contracts. And there's so many of them that have been found that one of the theories for the origin
of writing is based off the marketplace. I mean, we simply don't know. But the bottom line is you
need writing in order to create a complex social structure that is your city state. And eventually,
that regimented priestly scribal class with their standardized alphabets and text
is the thing that underwrites the birth of empire, the combination of city states. So, you know,
24th century BCE, we get Sargon of Acad who creates the first empire. But that empire is built upon
a large writing class who can now manage. You need your paperwork, your bureaucracy,
your mental managers. It turns out you actually do need that. And so, as these innovations in
writing occur, we start seeing differences in how society organizes itself. We get the rise of the
city state and then we get the birth of the empire. And then with that phonetic alphabet that the
Greeks developed, that begins what Carl Jaspers calls the axial age. And Carl Jaspers didn't
really recognize or attribute why history started changing around the top of the first millennium
BCE. But it turns out all societies in the ancient world appear to turn as if on an axle.
That's why he calls it the axial age, where everything starts changing. And the apex of
this age is around 600 BCE, 500 BCE. And what do we get at that time? We get the birth of several
new religions, Buddha, Confucius, Zoroaster, Jainism. We get massive revolutions in Judaism
with Isaiah and Jeremiah. We get Homer. We get the Greek schools, Greek science.
All the old religious structures that are cosmological and rooted in concrete ritual systems
start transforming. Buddha and Jainism and all these religions are teaching an individual,
interiorized, meditative, path to salvation kind of theology. That's completely different
than a few centuries before. All this is happening, guys, because, literally,
people are becoming literate. The brain is rewiring itself. And the oral structures are
very communal and very concrete and ritual-oriented. Literate structures are very interior and
individual. And that's the way it goes. And so you get all these massive transformations
across the Mediterranean and Near East at the same time as you get the innovations of your
alphabets. And this eventually leads to fully literate thinking, which creates Greek science
and the first world literate religion Judaism in the Bible.
John, quick question, quick. You talked about the necessity of a writing class in order for
there to be empire. And I found that fascinating. But with that writing class, as I think about
how things happen today, wasn't that smooth of a transition? Because empire can be quite sloppy,
and you think that, well, with the writing class, there are also segments of society that don't
get it right. And it's maybe not too well coordinated. And you do have some mid-level
bureaucrats who are stumbling over one another just like we have today. So isn't there also
some inefficiency introduced into the system? Oh, sure. Well, everything human beings do has
inefficiency introduced into the system. That's a perpetual state of human nature.
So yes, look, the birth of empire was a messy business. It required a systematic scribal culture,
but what it really needed was 10,000 people with swords and clubs. So that's what creates the empire.
But once you start conquering your neighboring city-states, then you need the ability to
communicate and to tax. And you need the ability to have your contract. You need to manage it.
And with out writing, that's almost impossible to do. And for tens of that, I mean, look at this
timeline. For 97,000 years, you have semi-nomadic and nomadic cultures. I mean, you just can't
create a massive empire without writing. You just can't organize it sufficiently. And so while,
you know, writing is going to produce, I mean, civilization is messy no matter what you do. And
so you need to have a constant perpetual training of scribes. And not all the scribes are going to
be equally competent. Some of them are, you know, they just want the money that comes with the job.
And so they are basically just copyists. And they're just copying what the guy above them is
telling them to copy. And they have no understanding of it. And as a result, they start putting in
errors in what they're copying unknowingly. And so, I mean, this becomes problematic. And it
becomes problematic with the transmission of text. And we talk about that with the Bible,
but it's true of any text. I mean, the Egyptian Book of the Dead was repeatedly miscopied by
scribes who didn't know what they were copying. So, you know, this just is what it is.
Real quick. And the intro of this video that we have on the show, you have a quick snippet of a
picture of a cave. And there seems to be some carvings on that cave looking outward. When was
that carved? Is there a timeline on that? Yeah, that's the Sheep Shelter at Fremont Indian State
Park. It's actually a really interesting site. It's a little rock shelter or cave. It's about
30 feet wide, 5, 6 feet tall. And the ceiling used to be covered in petroglyphs. Now, archaeologists
have actually done a dig there. And it's actually the earliest datable site in the canyon. They have
found remains of fires, hearth fires, going back to 3500 BCE. So, I mean, this is before the invention
of writing. People were using that cave as a shelter and building fires in there. But what happens is
those hearth fires stopped being built around the 5th century AD CE. And that's when the Fremont
come in. And they're the ones that carve the petroglyphs. So, they stop using it as a rock
shelter and they start using it for something else. And it's covered in petroglyphs. So,
you know, this is completely off topic, but now you're getting me really excited because this is
my ultimate project that I'm working on. It turns out I've spent the night there a couple of times
in the cave. It has an excellent view of the southern horizon, where you have a great view
of the rising and setting of stars. But the opposing bluff rises kind of high in the cave
ceiling. With your back against the back wall of the cave, you only see about 20% of the sky. And
it turns out the 20% of the sky you see is the ecliptic. That's the path of the sun, moon, and
planets. And it's just a natural coincidence. But I think once they figured that out, they
realized, oh my gosh, this is where we keep our calendar. This is where we watch the stars rise
and set. And so, you know, my theory then is those petroglyphs are cosmological petroglyphs
dealing with their calendar and their ritual system of their calendar. So anyway, I'll send you a
picture of that and you can post it on the editing of this little video so people can see what we're
talking about. Back to this, I don't even know where I'm at. Okay, so here we are with different
mediums of, you know, the medium is the message and we have different mediums. And just one of
the insights is we exist out here at the end, actually we're past this to post-literacy, but
we exist back here at the end. And when we're studying the Bible, because we're going to be
getting into that tonight, maybe, it's just interesting to note that all of Bible history
occurs within radically different mediums of information, which means the structure of a
society, religion, thinking, politics, it's all different than what we're used to.
Biblical studies occurs only in a primary print culture with full literacy and reductive
alphabets, which structures the way we think. And so, if you read Bible studies and Biblical
scholars, again, they just always assume the biblical text is literate, the history it's
dealing with is literate, and it's not, and it never was. So my contribution, guys, to scholarship
in this arena is I spent several years considering the first graphic, right? What does the medium
look like in primary orality? Because we have no alphabets, we have no writing, we have no
clay tablets, we have no printing press, we have no codex, we have no scroll. How in the world can
we recreate the information medium of a primary oral world? Turns out, I don't really know any
scholars who've asked the question. And McLuhan's insight that the content of one medium is another
medium actually is very helpful. When I considered that, I went to hear the invention of writing
the introduction of writing, and I looked at the earliest scripts, and I posed that the way they
function is probably taking patterns off the prior medium, which is primary orality. And so what
happens, you look at Egyptian hieroglyphs, for example, this carvings on the walls are all related
to ritual cycles and cosmological structures. So those writings are very strange, they're very
hard to translate, and actually impossible, no one really knows what the Egyptians are talking about,
because the entire thing, all the writing is behind a wall of religion that is filled with
cosmological and mythological epithets, titles, metaphors, symbols. Well, that is the medium,
the prior medium, right? That's the medium of primary orality. We're looking into the x-rays of
that, and so this is my contribution to this study, and that is the medium of primary orality,
I call it the oral imprinting press. It's not a printing press, it's an imprinting,
you're imprinting your memories, so you can pass them down from generation to generation,
and this is how oral societies work, and just a few quid pro quos. I'm using a printing press
metaphor, a literary metaphor for an oral category, that's wrong, and it actually leads us down the
wrong path, but I'm doing it to save time. I've actually developed a much more sophisticated
way to explain oral thinking without using a literate metaphor. It takes a long time to explain,
so I'm just cheating and saying, hey, the oral printing press works this way.
Oral societies structure themselves around the right time, the right way, and the right place.
Everything they do has to be contained in those parameters. That's how they maintain
their knowledge base. So the right time is cycled with nature. This picture, by the way,
guys, I took, that's a Juniper tree out in western Utah desert with the Milky Way rising behind it.
Topaz Mountain. Cool. So again, we talked about this in the last podcast, when a certain star
rises on the horizon, that correlates with something happening on the earth, the growing season,
the migratory season, the rain season, whatever it is, they start coding by analogical thinking
principles that are happening on earth that correspond with the moving luminaries,
and that tells them, one, they start creating a calendar, and oral societies all are calendar makers,
and we've forgotten how they've done it, but they employed enormous intellectual resources
in maintaining a calendar. And two, they start analogizing that calendar to all the things they
need to do from agriculture, even warfare in some of these societies, like the Aztec had ritual
warfare when they would wait for a certain star to rise or Mars, the planet, and then they would
go out and start killing people because it was the right time to have your war. And so
still today, still today, John, wars are successful if they're started around March or April,
many countries still believe. That's interesting. That probably explains why family reunions in my
family at about that time never go off well. I was about to say, there's no right time to
have a war with the wife. You'll always lose that one. There is no right time.
So but what oral peoples do is they take different mediums of information transmission
and they layer them because they have to remember these things without writing.
So if you perform your memory in a variety of different ways, you can more easily remember it.
So with the natural cycle and the calendar cycle, that tells them when to
repeat that cycle, what's going on on the earth, what's going on with your religion,
they tell a narrative about it. And that's the myth and the myth is very often associated
with some sort of natural cycle. But then they actually perform the myth, the narrative,
and that's a ritual. And so the cosmology, the myth and the ritual are all layers of each other.
And this is all brought together into the place, the right place, the place where you observe nature,
where you tell your stories and you perform your rituals. We eventually call this the temple,
but it's, you know, it doesn't have to be a stone structure. It could be a tree in a well,
it could be a cave, it could be a grove, it could be, you know, a tent.
But in any case, you know, the word temple is Greek, it comes from the Greek root
tem, which means to cut. And it refers to the cutting of two perpendicular lines. You see these
two perpendicular lines in my graphic, that's the quadrated cross. And that's basically defining
sacred space, your north, south, east, west, but also the sacred space in the sky, your solstice
is in equinoxes by which you start, uh, cosmicizing the land and creating your calendar and repeating
your myths and rituals. So, you know, actually the circle with the cross in it is the Egyptian
hieroglyph for city. And you could not found a city in Egypt or in Mesopotamia before you
founded your temple. The first thing you built was your temple, then you built the city around it,
because the temple is where you defined your sacred space, you created your calendar,
and that was your cultural library where you told your narratives and performed your rituals.
So, here you have guys, what the information medium is for those 97,000 years of human history.
Now, you know, of course it's going to evolve over that time, and so it's impossible to know
exactly how it evolved, but your temple, your cosmology, your myth and your ritual become
the imprinting press of world peoples. So, now if we just, you know, if we transpose all of this
into the Bible, for example, we just have to remember that, you know, all the dating before
David is unknown, right? So, no one really has any idea when the figure of Abraham is supposed
to have existed. Scholars say somewhere between 1800 and 2200 BC are the outside dates. What we
can say is all of biblical history exists within secondary orality, right? And in secondary orality,
you are still operate, your religion operates in this way. You're still operating within the
oral imprinting press. So, this is important to note because most Bible scholars say that
ancient Israel had no mythology. I, obviously, am coming down on the exact opposite side of that
assessment. Wrong. No, that's not how the oral mind structures itself. Oral societies have myths.
The myth is the product of an oral society. You've misrepresented early Israelite religion
because you're coming from it from a literate perspective and a literate text. That's at the
end of the religious cycle. At the beginning, you get the oral imprinting press, temple, cosmology,
myth and ritual. Did the early Israelites have myth? Yes. Now, part of the problem is no one
cannot agree on a definition of myth. Actually, part of the problem is no one can agree on a
definition of religion. True. We have a lot of problems. We have a lot of problems. But the
point is this is a biological fact. Oral peoples create myths as part of their
information. The medium is the message, right? It's part of the way they think and structure
their society. So, of course, Israelite, the early Israelites had had myths. They had rituals
all centered in the temple rooted in cosmological structures. This mostly gets purged out of the
Bible. So, all the way from, you know, we get the proto-patriarchs, Noah and Enoch and Methuselah
and Melchizedek. You know, we have no idea when those people, if they are historical, have lived.
But the bottom line is we don't really get a religion that we start becoming familiar with
until the axial age when people start becoming literate. And this, you know, really there's a
whole Isaiah tradition that is rooted in literacy. And this begins really the transformation of
Israelite religion. But ultimately, with the destruction of the temple, they lose their
imprinting press and they replace it with a fully literate text. And so, just by looking at those
information mediums, transposing it on the Bible historical timeline, we can at least get a sense
of how the Israelites practiced their religion until you get a text.
