We are MythVision.
Welcome to MythVision, your host, Derek Lambert.
I have a special guest slash host of his own YouTube channel, and Jill Pearson, how are
you?
I usually do religious debate videos, but I like history as well.
So the historicity of Jesus is something that crosses over both religion and history.
Totally agree, brother.
So we'll dive right into this.
Everybody who's watching this, be sure to go down in the description.
You're going to see his YouTube channel.
Go like and subscribe.
He brings awesome content.
I really enjoy Joel, and he's part of a lot of Facebook groups.
So if you enjoy these discussions and you have a Facebook, add yourself to these groups.
If you're a heretic like we are, just saying, I think it'll be fun.
Hope to see you there and enjoy this video.
All right, let's dive right into it, brother.
So for those of us who were coming over to this, I guess you'd say they're going to consider.
What is mythicism number one?
Can you tell me what it is?
It's just the idea that there was no single figure called Jesus who actually was crucified
and started the cult of Christianity.
So they could easily have been based on multiple Jesus' different stories and
stitched together over time.
But if you look at the earliest account that we have of Christianity,
which is Paul's epistles, then there doesn't seem to be any actual real Jesus in there.
It's all visions.
And Paul never says he ever met anyone who was an actual Jesus.
He only talks about Jesus appearing in visions.
So the idea of mythicism is that Paul was telling the truth about that.
And that there wasn't actually a Jesus there to begin with.
He was only in his head.
And it was in the heads of all the other Christians at the time, the cult that he joined.
Yeah, I totally agree.
I mean, the one that really matters to any Christian today isn't the real guy necessarily,
as much as they want to use that as part of their creeds and stuff.
That's why I really enjoy like Dr. Bob and Richard Carrier, Dr. Carrier.
They bring some interesting things here.
And what I would say in all of this is when you start to challenge the text and you start
to become more of a skeptic in terms of, well, I doubt, even if you're a believer,
you start to doubt and go, what is going on here?
This doesn't make sense in real world history.
It doesn't add up.
Maybe these are contradictions.
Maybe there is legitimate reasons.
We need to check this text out.
I started looking at them and I think what really got me was a lot of this is
synchronistic mythology that I did see elements of it in other mythologies.
And when I started looking at these other mythologies and saying, okay,
there are elements, not saying they're verbatim or anything like an identical copy,
like what we see in the Zeitgeist, which gives a bad name for us who consider mythicism.
When we say we're mythicists, we're not a movement necessarily.
What we're saying is we're skeptics.
We're guys who really doubt that we have accurate information through the ages that are
telling us this guy was a real guy on earth based off the evidence we have.
We don't have sufficient evidence to say, here he is.
No, this is him.
He was a real, he was a gentle kind, paid a Caesar Jew.
Oh, no, no, no.
That's why we have the Brandon version.
He was a militant radical.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
He was actually, his mother was raped by a Roman soldier and he was born.
Oh, no, no, no, and on and on it goes.
So I started to question things.
And just like you ended up seeing that, man, there could have been one.
There could have been a guy.
We just don't have very good evidence to say, for a fact, this is who he is.
Yeah, I think that's a really good way of putting it is that there isn't a consensus on Jesus,
where the idea is, oh, there's a consensus that Jesus existed and myth assists the minority.
Well, no, there's many different Jesuses that are argued.
So the idea that Jesus existed, which Jesus?
So there isn't really a solid consensus.
There's so many different kinds of Jesus.
And people sort of read their own bias into him when they're going to discover the history.
And it is something that I found interesting when I was a believer.
And as I started to realize more and more of that wasn't true,
I then decided to go and find the real Jesus.
And once you start digging, you realize, well, this is myth, that is myth.
Like Aaron Raugh pointed out that the story of Noah was ripped off from Gilgamesh.
It was an epistem, I think.
And you start to see more and more parallels where
the Bible has just taken older stories and converted them.
So yeah, we find that with Jesus as well.
The Gospels in particular are just full of myths.
They even take elements from Homer.
So yeah, obviously not history.
Yeah, so when you start pulling on that,
suddenly you find there's no Jesus left.
It just unravels.
And that's kind of like where I'm at with it.
I guess I'm brainstorming with you here as we record.
Because to me, when you start pulling away the onion,
as Dea Murdoch even said before she died,
she used to say when you pull away the onion, could there be things left?
Yeah, but we can't substantiate what is matter of fact left
that we know for certain existed.
I mean, I had a recent interview we just did with Eisenman and Lawson.
Christopher Lawson and Professor Eisenman.
And what I found interesting is both men believe there was a guy named Jesus.
As soon as Lawson, and Lawson's a student of his work,
but he also veers off in his own position on Jesus and such,
and does in-depth research trying to discover who the guy really was.
As soon as he did, Eisenman went,
now, Eisenman's really hard to deal with sometimes.
Okay, he's very, you know, but he cut him off and was like,
we can't know nothing about this guy.
Stop. He pretty much didn't want to go there because he's like,
where are you finding, what's your source?
You can't go to that source.
Tell me what you know about him.
That's why his case was whatever you know about James, of course,
he titled his book, James the Brother of Jesus,
when the text says the brother of the Lord.
And that's a whole another rabbit show I just interviewed Dr. Price on,
right before I'm talking to you.
And I don't want to get into that rabbit show,
but the bottom line is he makes a case that it is plausible that it is not biological,
and that this is a part of a movement.
And Lawson just stopped, you know, out of respect,
because the way Eisenman came about it,
but Eisenman in one sense is saying,
here, you want to know Jesus?
Look at James.
But how do you know that?
What if this James movement, if there was a James,
was usurped by a Herodian type of people who concocted a,
if that is the idea that this is a brother of Jesus,
they take the movement away from a James type guy,
and they slap the movement on a fictitional brother of this guy
that's supposedly before him,
and make a movement around this Joshua type named Jew.
I mean, I'm just speculating, but we can't be certain,
and we should have doubts.
We should be like, you know what, what if?
We should be able to say what if.
Because James is also supposed to be the brother of John.
And is this the same John that supposedly,
the beloved disciple?
Well, he wasn't.
But yeah, we need to speculate on that, right?
Because there's, it's probability.
That's what we always hear.
And you actually have been great in my,
my journey on this,
because you've actually given me materials
that I need to look at and solve things from a new perspective
when I saw your material on YouTube.
And that's why I keep telling people,
go over there and check you out,
because you look at things a little different.
You take what the scholars are saying,
you dissect it down,
and then you give a little bit of your own perception on it,
and it helped me kind of see things in a way that,
if I didn't understand it from them,
you made it make sense for me.
Well, people understanding things best narratively are fine.
So when you get sunk down into the details and the facts,
then quite often you can just, like you say,
go down a rabbit hole.
And then you can sort of lose the big picture as you do that.
So it helps to keep things in perspective at the top level,
in particular, the fact that we don't really know
what the original text said.
And that's always worth keeping in mind,
especially when we start arguing over the finer points
of grammar in a particular word.
It's like, well,
that could easily have been a mistake at some point
or just added in by someone else.
We really can't trust the text that we have.
So we have to step back and say,
well, what's the general gist of these texts?
What parts do we know were added in later?
So what do we have left after you take all these pieces out?
Yes.
You also have to consider the reasoning behind it.
You say, as Ehrman says,
what's the most difficult reading of the text?
If you've got a variant,
then somebody's changed it to make it easier for their theology.
So clearly the original harder reading,
like when in Mark, Jesus got angry,
and later on they changed that and made him not angry.
Clearly Jesus getting angry is more embarrassing,
so that was the original reading.
And then someone simplified it to make
the later version of Jesus fit with that,
but the John's Jesus.
I totally agree.
In fact, that's why I've been encouraging you.
I'm like, you got to get Dr. Bob's book,
because I know you'll be able to digest it better than I will.
I told him to please make it in audio format,
the colossal apostle.
Did you get it?
Don't have the colossal apostle yet.
I am reading the incredible Shrinking Son of Man, though.
That's awesome, man.
Yeah, he's fascinating.
He says that exactly what you said.
Okay, he takes things, they call them a hypercritic,
but seriously, shouldn't you be?
I mean, really, think about this.
Shouldn't you be hypercritical about this?
Shouldn't you say we shouldn't quite trust all of this
and then work your way in on what you can truly substantiate
and then work inward?
It seems like there's two sides of this candle,
the side of historicity they start burning,
and the side of skepticism.
When you actually start finding all these problems in the candle,
do you start with, I'm gonna start with it's real
and then find what's not, throw that out,
or do you start with maybe this thing
is really not to be trusted to start with
and work on what we can solidify?
Isn't that a proper method when you have a book
that's been so messed with
and so played with throughout the ages?
Don't you think we should go,
okay, hocus pocus, let's find what's real
and work your way inward?
I mean, for crying out loud,
we have a majestic celestial Jesus
that's believed to this day
who's like Santa Claus answering prayers.
This was mentioned by Dr. Bob
about his Jesus Christ superstition book.
He's answering everybody's prayers all at once,
just like Santa's going in all the chimneys,
in all the world, to get you your gifts.
Why not start with what if this is mythology,
what if this has been edited, played with,
and then work your way inward,
and his book, The Colossal Apostle,
he makes a case that even the epistles of Paul
are patchworks that have been redacted, edited,
forged, added on, and that Marcian's debating
with one of the church fathers
right there at the beginning.
And it's like Galatians chapter three
did not have what it has today in it,
in certain spots, Dr. Bob says,
that it's actually attacking Marcian's theology.
And Marcian is the first guy who's originally
finding these things and never mentions this,
and neither does the church father.
So I don't know the argument,
but why not start there and work out, you know?
Yeah, it is quite suspicious,
just the way that the first canon was a heretical canon,
and later on cannons just did away with that.
So it's quite interesting.
You can never say that the Christianity we have now
is the original one,
because it's been chopped and changed so many times.
And I think what we get with Paul's works,
the way they've been edited,
what's really odd is on the historicity
versus mythicism debate,
we know Paul's epistles have been tampered with,
because obviously he wrote a lot that he no longer survives.
There's lots of strange jumps.
So you have to consider what's more likely
that the historicist sect that survived cut out loads
of historical information,
or the historicist sect that survived cut out
or the mythical information to make it match,
because once you get to the Gospels,
you've got a historical Jesus.
So if Paul's letters didn't fit that,
then obviously they're going to go back
and only preserve the parts of Paul's letters
that fit their theology.
So yeah, it's very odd.
In particular, it's very strange when
people who don't believe that Jesus was mythical,
that he was a historical person,
they argue as if we would expect to find explicit references
to mythicism in Paul's letters,
if that was the case,
because no, they would chuck it out,
it would become heresy.
Yeah, I do get it.
They want it to be like,
well, I think that could be our,
I guess you'd say, the methodology of Protestantism
in the way we research,
because the text should tell you, right?
Sometimes the text tells you,
but it doesn't tell you.
And I try to explain this to a lot of people
who are part of our groups that we're involved in,
that espouse doctrines that you have to try and deduce,
and you have to try to make sense of,
and you have to make all the books
say the same thing for it to make sense.
And so I try to explain that to them
why I don't follow completely.
Is it possible that some of the doctrines
they're saying are true or maybe being used here?
Probably in the earliest forms of these texts, yes.
However, we don't have the earliest forms,
and to act like this is gonna get handed off
into pagan, literal pagans, hands,
and they are not gonna do something about it,
I just don't buy that.
So with what you're saying,
they say stuff like these are not cleverly devised myths.
Dr. Price always says, I love,
why are you saying that?
Who's saying that they're cleverly devised myths?
Or I'm not a liar, you know?
Was someone being called a liar, possibly?
Another way to look at it is if you know
how what I love about Dr. Bob the Christ Smith
and his theories and the problems with it, right?
So his book, The Christ Smith Theory and Its Problems,
he shows Old Testament stories in the New Testament,
showing why they don't make sense historically.
Like, dude, this is just a rewrite of that.
That's literally all.
Maybe certain circumstances and situations change
because it's a different context,
but they're rewriting that story.
And when you follow that logic
and you start looking at this and you go, okay, who's Paul?
If you did use that information,
you'll find that Paul, in many ways, squares up with Balaam,
the prophet who's giving these false prophecies
in the Old Testament.
And you kind of go, hold on, is this a narrative?
Like, is this history?
Is it, we don't even, we can't get past that part
if you're really a skeptic and really trying to tie in
what's going on here.
You could assume, but I think we should start here
and work this way and not start with, yep,
this is all legit and work inward.
And Paul, or Price does that with Paul as well.
Well, so when you mentioned in 2nd Peter,
the cleverly devised myth lines,
what's really interesting about that is that they immediately
forge an eyewitness testimony afterwards.
So you can see they're literally fabricating stories about Jesus.
Because of course, we know that 2nd Peter wasn't written
by the same person as 1st Peter,
and we're not even sure that that one was genuine.
So it's a double forgery, really.
But when it comes to the historicity of Paul,
for the sake of argument, I grant that,
because we have seven or six or seven letters written
by probably the same person who we may as well call Paul.
So I think it's probably best to start at that position
and then we can argue historicity back and forth,
assuming there was a Paul.
Maybe that's something which could be argued.
I haven't actually read Price's argument
in the Colossal Apostle about that,
so I still need to get around to that.
But for the moment, I'm granting historicity of Paul.
And one of the things that I try and do
is make sure that I challenge mythicism
as much as I challenge historicity.
And that's, I spend some of my time debunking bad mythicists.
So when somebody says there's 100% chance Jesus was mythical
and there's no chance at all that he was historical,
I have to challenge that as well,
and go, well, the evidence that we have
means you can't make that stronger conclusion in either direction.
You have to say it's possible either way.
There could have been a historical Jesus,
and as Dr. Bob says, maybe there's nothing left of him now.
So even if there was a historical Jesus,
what we have left in these scraps just doesn't contain any of him.
But either way, you can't say 100% there was or wasn't.
So it's best to stay, start off in the middle
and just go, I don't know.
And then you can lean on the side of more skeptical
when the evidence demands it,
and more towards historicity when the evidence supports that as well.
So like, you know, the brother of the Lord passage
is probably the best thing that we've got for historicity.
I think it's ambiguous, and the rest of Paul,
once you take that into account, it falls apart
because there's no other reference really
that supports anything that would be a historical person.
And so many references that don't make sense
if there was a historical person.
Like saying born of a woman is a really weird thing
to say about a real person.
Why would you say that?
You know, that's a good-
So what was the alternative?
He was born of a guy?
I mean, donkeys shat him out?
I mean, what happened?
You know, oh, by the way, guess what?
He was born of a woman.
Did you know that?
I'm going to start introducing my friends that way.
Yeah. Oh, me, Tom.
He was born of a woman in case you're wondering about it.
You know, it's like ridiculous, bro.
So when you consider what the odds that somebody would be introduced
that way if they were a real person, it's very unusual.
Good point.
And I mean, look, using the methodology that they would say
he was a mythologized person, we're not ruling out the possibility here.
I mean, obviously you need to keep that door open always, but
the thing is, when you look at that, it makes you kind of wonder
what the motives of the authors are, or at least whoever the editors may have been,
because we don't even know.
That's how crazy hardcore this is.
We don't know what really is the closest to original or not.
We can see things that seem like they're edited later,
like there's additions and they're purposely trying to what we do today,
apologetics.
They're using their own apologetic methods,
except they're almost, like I remember listening to David Wood,
who's a Christian apologist, who's arguing against Muslims,
and he debates Muslims all the time.
And he makes the point that in the Muslims books,
they have this place where it's like, well, you can lie for Allah.
You can lie on his behalf as long as it benefits the faith, you know.
And it almost makes you think these Christian authors thought the same thing.
This needs to be lied for to benefit the faith.
If you have to make up an argument,
you have to make up something to try and get your point across as people would come,
do it.
And I don't know, it just makes you kind of wonder,
what are the motivating factors for making up one of them?
That was definitely, that was Eusebius's attitude,
very much in favor of lying for the church.
Obviously, you know, writing the testimony in Flavianum.
Right.
That's a forgery on behalf of God.
That's an interesting point too, the Flavianum.
I mean, they say there's two quotes.
What do you think about the other quote?
Not the one that's clearly putting him as if you could even call him a man.
What about the other one that seems more like he may have been a man who existed?
What do you think about that?
Well, I'm sure James did exist.
That particular James, obviously, not the one in the Gospels.
But then that's the thing.
So it says that there was a Jesus and a James.
It mentions the Jesus twice.
It mentions that Jesus is a high priest.
And it does say called Christ.
To be fair, that could be an interpolation,
because this was Origen's text that Eusebius had,
and that we now is the only one surviving for all of us.
So I think it's possible that that was a margin written by Origen,
a comment written by Origen saying maybe this was the brother of Christ.
But I think it's also possible that Josephus actually wrote called Christ
because it just means anointed and the high priests were anointed.
So it's entirely in keeping with the Jesus that's in that passage.
But if you look at the context of it, then of course it's saying
James was killed and an apology to their father, Jesus was made the high priest.
There's only one Jesus in the passage.
And technically, I heard I think Dr. Bob and Carrier mention
that we're not even sure this is the same James and Jesus,
because there were many Jesuses and James that were taking place in the first century.
And this one sounds to be around the 60s,
not placed under Pontius Pilate, which is very confusing.
Because then you're like, hold on, but Tacitus quotes that Crestus,
and that's under Pontius Pilate.
How do you have a Jesus under Pontius Pilate?
And you have a Jesus in the war times of the 60s, two different guys.
It's very, very controversial.
Well, the Tacitus just won us forgery in it as well.
You can even see where the Christians tampered and changed the letters.
So it says Christians instead of Christians.
And of course, Crestus was a slave name.
So, and it also, it phrases it in such a way that this Crestus,
who's leading the revolt, is in Rome.
So, yeah, it falls apart on multiple levels.
Not to mention it's both Josephus and Tacitus,
even if they were genuine, would still be hearsay about Christians.
Right. Someone told them what, what they told them a story about this is technically.
Yeah, that's both what Christians believe.
They're not what actually happened in history.
They weren't our witnesses that they're too late and they're too far removed.
Interesting. Interesting.
Yeah, I think the doubtful being a doubter is a good thing in this.
I surely don't feel threatened.
I don't feel like God's mad at me if there is one just because of this.
In fact, if he pops up right now and he were to literally reveal his hands and his side wound
and feet to me as he did Thomas, according to the tale,
I would, I would, I'd have to say I'd go a step further
than what I've heard other atheists argue with Christians.
And they're like, well, if he would appear to you right now
and show these things to you, would you believe?
And they're like, well, I don't know.
No, I'm going to be honest.
I would believe. Okay.
I really would.
If he appears to me and I didn't take any drugs
and I was able to like somehow have multiple people around me.
Okay. Because I wasn't hallucinating or tripping.
I would believe it.
But man, why are you, why are those stories even needing to be put in there?
You know, like it's just to me when you start to really look at it from a different angle.
I used to be in the box drinking the Kool-Aid and thinking of this
and defending it from a purely subjective faith based type position.
And there was no proven me otherwise.
Something clicked in my mind, something changed.
So I know what it's like to be on that.
And I don't want to be a cynical douchebag towards, you know, those of faith.
And that is not at all my goal because I know very many people,
they tell me all the time, they're praying for me.
And I thank them because I know that means they care for me.
They, they just want what's best for me, that type of thing.
I take the motives, right?
Good motives.
But what flips, what flipped, something flipped.
And now I can analyze the text and go,
why is Thomas having to be revealed these things?
And why is the text doing that?
And then it follows up with, but blessed are those who don't see yet still believe.
Hold on.
We should do what Jesus said.
That's the best thing.
Believe in Nazi.
And then we're the greatest of Christians, you know,
those are the ones we want to get our blessings, you know.
Yeah, it's, I think that the flip is when you start to
decide that you care more about whether it's true than whether it's comforting.
That's the bit when you start to get curious and go,
well, is it actually true?
And when you start digging, of course, once you start
practicing sound logic and understanding epistemology,
that's when it all starts to unravel.
Because then you realize that faith is entirely dishonest.
Once you've made that realization, I mean, you'd never go back to it again.
But just on the subject of narrative and the origins of Christianity,
it's quite interesting to think about what each author was thinking as they wrote
and how they came up with these things.
So obviously, the gospel authors were arguing with each other and trying to rewrite Jesus
in their own way.
You can see their own motives coming across in there.
Mark didn't have anyone to argue against because he wrote the first gospel that we know of.
And also, it's worth remembering that these aren't the only gospels, at least 40 that we know of.
So they were competing not just against each other, but against all the other gospels as well.
Yeah, I heard a total of 83.
I heard.
I don't know if that's true, but possibly in mentions and modern ones.
Yeah, right.
We're talking 3rd, 2nd, 3rd, 4th century, later on, different variety, Gnostic gospels, you name it.
Even 19th to 20th century, potentially.
I think if you're going to go after that number.
Right.
Yeah, I don't know where to stand on some of this stuff because it seems like,
and you can probably better answer this, and maybe I should ask some of the more
the PhDs in the field of mythicism, this question, but it seems to boil down to
Archons are either leaders in the real world that are crucifying a guy named Jesus,
all right.
And Christians want to make it like most of the time, and those who may be historians,
okay, the historicists, I mean, they make it seem like, what's more plausible?
You know, they act like the fact that there were real crucifixions that are actually going on
during this time, and you're going to take it from this real world where real stuff's going on,
you're going to take it somewhere else, that seems implausible.
And that kind of tugs at me a little.
It does make me kind of go, you know, they got a point.
There's a lot of real crucifixions that are really going on during this time.
At the same time, you know, is it the Archons being these real people, or is it the Archons being
these demons, angels, possibly some metaphysical beings taking place in a celestial realm,
in a way, like Carrier has brought up, the Doherty thesis?
Is that what's going on?
What have you done in your mind?
It could be either.
It could be both, to be fair, because even if Jesus was crucified, you know, and existed and
was crucified by the Romans, then from the theological perspective, it was still the
Romans being influenced by, you know, the Archons, the Satan and the demons and so on,
because it's a theological thing that's happening.
So on the theory that there was a historical Jesus, the reason that all this theology was
invented around him was that the cult was reeling from his loss, either as the leader
or one of their most respected members, potentially, for them to revere him like that.
And then someone like, say, Kephas Peter would take over the cults after that point.
They sort of, you know, they go away, go into hiding,
think about what had happened, find a way to fit it into their worldview,
because of course, they can't be wrong.
Their God still has to exist.
They still have to be on the right path.
So they managed to twist that in and rewrite their theology to fit what happened.
So that does require them to switch from one leader to another,
which is less likely than just carrying on with the same leader.
So on the other, the mythic hypothesis, or at least the one that I think is likely,
then you have Peter there being the leader all along right from the beginning.
There was never Jesus countering him, you know, fighting with him for leadership.
And in this scenario, he has the idea of having a sacrifice.
Now, whether he genuinely believed it or not, we don't know.
We have nowhere near enough information to say with any certainty.
But in some way, through reading scriptures,
through seeing these crucifixions of other rebels, you know,
and it doesn't have to be Jesus that was crucified,
just the fact that there were crucifixions happening.
And then comes up with the idea to say, okay, we can't ever beat the Romans.
So we can't have a Messiah who is, you know, a war leader or something like that,
but we still have to have a Messiah because the scriptures say so.
So what is this telling me?
And then, of course, you've got the other Hellenistic influences around him of other gods
who you don't see or, you know, you're great leaders, but they're, you know, in the sky,
they're these other saviours at the same time.
So then it doesn't take that much for him to piece all these things together
and create his own cult, his own conspiracy.
And I think this is an existing cult.
They already had, you know, they would use already,
they didn't even consider themselves to be separate.
They were still Jews.
They were just the true Jews from their own perspective.
So yeah, you can piece this together.
And of course, Christians still do it now.
They still say, look, this is a prophecy.
This is a prophecy.
Somebody told me there was something like 200 prophecies of Jesus.
So, well, they're digging the hole for mythicism there.
They're basically saying you can't build Jesus out of the Old Testament.
It is so funny you say that.
Good point.
I used to, you know, find Jesus in the Old Testament
and you find this angel of the Lord countless times appearing to people,
appearing to Joshua, appearing to Abraham.
And, you know, what will you have the two other people with this angel of the Lord,
which is the Trinity, you know, like, and like,
there's always this funny way of people trying to incorporate their thoughts,
which is obviously a later idea,
but you have the angel of the Lord appearing to Abraham.
And he's like, but Lord, what if there's 50 righteous?
So, I will spare, you know, I will spare the city if there's 50 righteous,
which is why the whole point they take out a lot in his family.
You go on, you have Sampson's parents, right?
The angel of the Lord appears.
They thought they were dead.
And all of a sudden, you know, they're like pinching their skin
and do not let him drink from the vine and all this stuff.
And he's a Nazarite, right?
Well, and on and on, you look and you find this Jesus guy.
And you go, well, he wasn't named Jesus in these situations,
but he's the angel of the Lord.
And then you find that we have Jehovah's Witness today,
and they're out there talking about the Michael Ark Angel is the Jesus guy
in the New Testament.
And you go, what, why do they think that?
And if you listen to their arguments to try and see how they piece Jesus
to this Michael Ark angel that we find in, I believe it's in Daniel,
here there might be a connection between this character in Daniel,
this angel and the angel of the Lord being Jesus in the New Testament,
and that he lowers himself from his heavenly abode and takes,
you know, beneath the angels and humbles himself and becomes like a man
and all this stuff.
You have Melchizedek as well.
You have the legend of Melchizedek, which is a great example,
because then it's the high priest making a sacrifice in the temple in the heavens,
which fits that.
You've got the mention of the name Jesus in Zachariah as well.
So there's lots of these pieces that if you're of a conspiracy theorist kind of person,
you could piece together.
And of course, we know that's pretty much what was going on in 1st century Judea.
Anyway, they were people trying to make these prophecies work
because there were so many failed prophecies,
particularly in Daniel, which was still fairly fresh at the time.
Daniel hadn't been written that long ago.
So they were trying to make it work.
And it does make sense that the surviving sect was a non-militaristic one,
because obviously they just didn't have the manpower or even the technology to cross the Romans.
So the only way they could make their theology work was to do this in a non-violent way.
And they obviously, there was many different sects.
They went down many different paths.
It just happened to be this particular one ended up winning.
And this is what we left with trying to piece back together.
Through the many twists and turns that the texts have taken
and how we've lost 99% of everything that was ever written on Christianity.
Yeah, this is just, I love digging into this question.
And the more, I guess the more we get like the Christians in our thinking,
but coming at it skeptically, you start to see why this Jesus may not have existed.
Bart Ehrman starts with, well, now there's a core guy.
All that stuff.
Let's just get rid of the fictional stuff and keep the real.
And you got to ask yourself, where is the real?
I told Dr. Bob the other day I was on the phone, you know, we're chit chat.
And then I said, that guy is the greatest brain surgeon in the world.
If he can really uncover the actual guy.
Because when you look at him, you find more than just that guy, in my opinion,
you find elements taken from other places like you talked about with Homer and the Iliad, right?
Okay, well, let's get rid of that.
That's legend.
Oh, that's Old Testament rehash or mid-rash, you know,
that the copy and typology of Old Testament.
Yeah, it's almost all Old Testament.
And Matthew is not even subtle about it or Paul.
Paul keeps saying, yeah, we got this from scripture.
So you take it all the way and what's left?
Who is this guy?
Other than like you said, Old Testament, it's funny.
Because, yeah, when you get down to it, you even have Josephus in my opinion being used.
I do think there's some tagging up there with the three guys.
There could be a similarities between the three crucified and Josephus.
But I don't think that was solely stolen from there, even though I do think the two survivors
is that where Josephus is friends where you got them back off the cross to try and rescue them.
Yeah, it was only one survivor, both the friends.
The parallel, though, for me is Jesus Ben Ananias or Ananias.
Of course, the trial seems to match his where he didn't speak out in his defense,
which is pretty suspicious.
And with that in recent memory as well with the fall of Jerusalem.
And then on that note with Jesus Ben Ananias, you also have him being the woe-saying Jesus
and look in the Gospels.
You find him going, and woe to you scribes and Pharisees.
That woe-saying Jesus from Josephus does the same thing.
But then with the whole crucifixion thing, you can look at the three crucified and say,
okay, well, only one actually lives in the end, even though he dies.
In Josephus, the three that were taken down that were Josephus' buddies,
and this is written in the life of Josephus, his autobiography,
that two of them died under a physician's care, but one of them actually survived.
Like from the brink of death, he survives.
Well, if you look at the Old Testament,
even though you can use that as an example for the crucifixion point.
So what I'm saying is if there's anything that's being taken here,
is the fact that there's real crucifixions?
And all you gotta do is go to Josephus to find contemporary usage of such ideas.
Oh, well crucifixions happen.
Here's Josephus.
Let's use crucifixions in the story.
However, we need to copy the Old Testament.
So now go to Joseph in the Old Testament in the dungeon.
He's now sold into slavery.
He's in Potiphar's house, Pontius Pilate's control.
If you look at the story of Matthew 27,
you'll find when Judas sells off Jesus with 30 or 20 pieces of silver,
it's the same thing.
I think it's 30 pieces, isn't it?
I think it's 20, because the Old Testament story with Joseph is 30.
There was a difference in the number of silver.
Yeah, I might be thinking of the other story.
Yeah, they're not identical, but you can tell.
In either case, it didn't make sense, because it wasn't worth anything.
Yeah, he throws it down in the temple,
but when you go to the Old Testament,
it's funny in, I think it's Genesis 37, and it's Matthew 27.
So parallel this, from Genesis 37 up to 41,
in Genesis 37 to 41, in that area with Joseph's story,
you'll see that Judah, the brother Judah,
comes and gives him the idea to sell him off,
because he didn't want him to die.
He just wanted him to sell him off.
Well, they get the silver, they sell him off,
they take him off to Potiphar's house in Egypt,
they sell Joseph, Joseph ends up getting accused by the wife,
and sure enough, being accused by the wife,
he gets thrown into the dungeon,
and there he is in death, so to speak.
He hears two men, one of them had a dream about bread,
and it didn't understand it,
and the other one had another dream, he was the wine bearer.
You have the bread and the wine right here, okay?
What's going on?
Eat of my flesh, which is the bread of life,
and drink of my blood, which is the wine.
Now, what's interesting about this parallel,
tying into the Old Testament,
is one of the men was going to be resurrected
unto eternal life,
one of the men was going to be resurrected
unto eternal death.
The bread man gets resurrected, or brought up to Pharaoh,
and then he's condemned.
He gets beheaded, and the birds eat of his flesh.
He dies.
The other one gets resurrected,
and gets reinstated in his position,
serving wine to Pharaoh.
You have the body and the blood of Jesus right here,
in this Old Testament story, so to speak,
and you have Joseph literally being seated
at the right hand of Pharaoh.
Jesus gets resurrected,
seated at the right hand of his father.
So you gotta kind of go,
what's the big picture saying here?
Is this real history in the New Testament?
The more you find out it's in the Old Testament,
the more you gotta scratch your head and go,
I don't know if this is really mythologized history.
It's so much copying of the Old,
how can you really say this is real, you know?
Well, and with the parallels as well,
I think there's a lot of focus on crucifixion itself,
you know, the Roman style of crucifixion,
which isn't necessarily warranted as for what Paul says,
because if you read Paul,
there's no actual mention of Roman crucifixion.
And the term that's used,
it doesn't necessarily mean the old T-shaped cross thing.
It's just hanging in general.
So it can be somebody stoned and then hung from a post,
or somebody impaled.
There's so many different methods,
and there wasn't really a standard way to do it.
It was just kill someone by sticking them on a pole,
because they each just left it to their own precincts,
their own ideas.
So it's something that's consistent even with stoning.
So if you just had Paul and you didn't have the Gospels,
and that is a huge problem,
is that people are introduced to the Gospels
before they read Paul,
and they come into Paul with all these preconceptions.
But if you had Paul without the Gospels,
you could easily say Jesus was stoned,
because it's consistent as well.
Good point.
I think in Acts, the beginning of Acts,
if I'm not mistaken,
doesn't it say Jesus was hung on a tree,
and they do it on purpose because the law says,
cursed is every man who hung on, hangs on a tree.
So did he hang on a tree?
Well, Derek, the cross post is made from a tree.
That's the argument I get Christians
who always come back at me,
and I kind of go,
but what if he was really like on a tree,
and then I've seen pictures of other pagan myths,
where their gods are actually hanging on a tree?
You've got Dionysus, you've got Odin.
Odin, yes.
And he hungs on,
he kind of, there's an involvement of a spear as well
in Odin's situation.
There is a spear, yeah, Odin's spear.
I'm not sure how old that myth is,
so I'm not sure how that got mixed together,
so I wouldn't be able to say it.
Even if, and with what you're saying,
you know, a lot of people go,
well, it has to predate Christianity for it to matter.
Like the death blow has to be that these myths
all have to go before the Christianity myth,
or else they don't know.
You also get people making assumptions,
like with the whole crucifixion thing,
where they're going, the crucifixion narratives.
We're saying, well, it's any form of hanging up after death,
or hanging as a form of punishment, as a warning,
basically humiliating a corpse is what's going on.
So any form of humiliating a corpse in public,
that's pretty much the point.
It's saying, what's the most humiliating death
we can come up with?
What's the worst someone could go through
to be the greatest sacrifice?
And the nature of any mythology with gods
is to be the best, is to be the top.
So you want your sacrifice to be better
than all the other sacrifices.
So it makes perfect sense to use that method.
And yeah, it's interesting that Erman says
that Paul is trying to come to terms with Jesus
having died that way, because he's familiar enough
with the Old Testament to know that that man would be cursed.
I'm not sure I read that into Paul.
I think that might be Erman taking his own narrative
of Paul walking into a situation
in which a real man has been crucified.
I think obviously that Paul has come into a situation
where they're telling him that they had visions
that Jesus was crucified or was hanged.
And then he's making his own theology after that.
And I also think that Paul is coming in
with a guilty conscience.
So from my own perspective, Paul's conversion,
which is impossible to say whether he really had a vision,
whether he had a guilty conscience,
was chipped him over the edge,
whether he sent it for the money,
because obviously there's money involved.
He even argues to say, I need to be paid.
It's impossible to tell.
We can't tell because we're getting only Paul's perspective.
So with that in mind, my personal preference for that
is I think that he was genuinely hunting Christians
because he admits to that.
And I think that he learned enough from them
to think maybe he was on the wrong side of this
and then decided to change sides.
Whether there was a real vision or not, I don't know.
But it seems like a guilty conscience
and his predisposition towards religious thinking anyway
just tipped him over that edge.
It's interesting going back to the method in which he dies.
That alone has so many question marks on it
because of the issues.
Are they really going to have a secret trial
on the eve of Passover at night
and then be willing to go on Passover day
to present him to Pontius Pilate
and to be out here parading the streets
instead of focusing on Yahweh
and focusing on the Passover,
which if I'm not mistaken has them inside
with the blood of the animal on the door
that they're supposed to...
It was illegal to crucify, to kill someone on Passover.
It was illegal to have a trial, a capital trial
the day before Passover.
It just wouldn't have happened.
They would have left him in the cells and dealt with it later.
So yeah, all of that is fictional.
The Gospel accounts are completely fictional.
You go back to the early source.
There is no trial.
Right. In Paul, yeah, in Paul.
And that's what kind of gets me is like
if there was a guy named Jesus
and it was done by Jews, okay,
if the Jews really did crucify him,
I don't think they would have crucified him.
I think the punishment of death would have been stoning.
But then again, that depends on if you take
the suspected Gospel narrative
that he claimed to be God in certain situations,
which would made him blaspheme,
or at least equate himself equal with his father at points,
even if you say he wasn't trying to be God.
He was doing some blasphemy.
Therefore now at this point,
they're actually required to stone him to death.
And then another thing is,
if he is this sacrifice, where's the burnt sacrifice?
He's the final lamb.
He's supposed to be burned.
Is he, could he be a typological archetype for Israel
and look at what happens in the temple?
The temple where the sacrifice is supposed to take place
ends up burning as a burnt sacrifice.
So I don't know where this goes,
but human sacrifice never seems good.
But it's an interesting idea to rabbit-troll into these ideas
because nothing is for certain, you know?
Well, I don't like going too far into the Gospels
just because I think they're irrelevant,
in that they're so fictional
that even if Jesus existed,
the Gospels could still be totally fictional.
So I think disproving the Gospels' history
is kind of already been done.
It's not something that we need to concern too much about
when we look at whether Jesus really existed.
So with that already done,
we then have to turn our attention to Paul.
And Jesus basically stands or falls on Paul,
on how you read Paul.
And if you don't read the Gospels back into Paul,
because obviously we have to discard the Gospels,
then you end up with a very ambiguous reading of Paul.
And I think that's where it sits.
So it's easy to dig in the Gospels and find holes,
and it got down our road.
But I ultimately think that leads nowhere
with the question of whether Jesus existed,
unless you're debating with someone
who considers the Gospels reliable
or as a Christian or something like that.
Good point.
Good point.
Yeah, Paul's where we should sit.
At least if you agree with most critical thinkers,
critical scholars, that suppose the first seven,
or these seven books are authentically Paul,
I totally agree.
And we need to try and find that out.
But there's some interesting things even in there
that make me wonder, as I've studied so far,
and I haven't read all of Dr. Bob's book,
which is why I really, really need to.
But there's things in there that Paul, in my opinion,
shouldn't know, or he's speculating,
or he knows something, he knows too much,
meaning this guy is obviously in communication
with people who are aware of something.
One of the reasons why I mention this
is that the cup filling up with wrath
that we see in 1 Thessalonians,
I believe it's chapter four or two, I can't remember,
he knows that the wrath is about to be poured out
on these people, that the wrath has been full.
The cup is full and it's about to pour out on them.
If that could be an interpolation.
We already know there was an interpolation
in 1 Thessalonians too, 14 to 16, I think.
So we already have a case where we definitely
know people have been messing with the text.
And of course, for every interpolation we find,
there must be potentially a dozen that we don't know about,
just because they slip under the radar,
we have no way of telling.
So yeah, this is why we have to treat these texts
with such suspicion.
That's what it boils down to.
I love that you bring that up, man,
and I'm glad that you came on here to talk about this,
because really what we need to do is ask more questions,
and I really think that the approach that we're taking
is the best one.
Who knows, in 10 years from now,
we might be convinced by something
that leads us to the conclusion, hey, there was a guy,
and we don't know much about him at all,
we do think there was a guy, and here's what.
But at least being as critical as we are,
I think for us to get there, if we're gonna get there,
hopefully we're sticking to something solid
that we can prove a case for why we would go to that position,
rather than just supposing or starting with he existed,
and then trying to work our way out of it,
and find out what is and what isn't true.
I like this, because at least if we do come to the conclusion
that there is, we'll have some solid evidence.
Christopher Hansen, for example, came on the show with Dr. Bob.
Smart, smart man, he knows a lot, he's read a lot.
However, he's jumped the bandwagon wholeheartedly
to the opposite spectrum of historicity.
Now, my question is, to him was who's your Jesus,
and he's a man who claimed to be God?
And Dr. Bob, when I've had conversations, wow,
that's a very, very radical position to say that you knew
there was a Jew who claimed to be God in the first century,
because that goes against everything that they would do as Jews.
So, you know, it just is so that the playing field
is all over the place with this for brilliant thinkers
that just get caught up in these things,
and it's like, let's just remain a skeptic and say,
it's possible he was a man who claimed to be God,
but let's rule out the possibility.
What's the probability?
Let's deal with evidence to see what we come up with.
Where does he do that in Paul?
Where does he claim to be a God in Paul?
And I think that's just an answer they're trying to say,
well, why was he killed to begin with?
Why would they want him to be killed?
What's the motivator?
Mark's Gospel trial doesn't make any sense
as to why Jesus was killed, yeah.
He doesn't even blaspheme in there when they say it's blasphemy,
so it really doesn't make sense.
Talking about Hansen, I think he probably has got
one of the best chances of writing an actual case
for historicity.
The impression I get is that he's still
young and exuberant and overconfident,
so I'm sure as you go through,
if he manages to do his PhD, that'd be great,
because obviously the more you learn,
the less certain you become.
You know, you pick up a bit more doubts as you go along.
You start to realize there are so many areas of ambiguity,
so I think that's coming along well.
I did critique one of his books that he'd written,
and he's blocked me since then,
so I can't debate with him right now, but I'm sure he'll...
It happens from time to time.
I'm sure he'll come around and we can have our debates again.
But he was one of the best at arguing for historicity
in an overconfident way, but I think
he'll probably soften up as he gets further on into the material.
And this is something which we really need.
We need someone to argue for historicity
on a logically sound footing,
because what we've got is people asserting confidence
which is not justified.
And you could make...
You could so easily make a good case for historicity.
It's just that they overreach in most cases,
so I'm waiting for this one sensible, measured defense.
One that actually answers the problems
raised by a carrier's book, for example, and by price.
So it would be really good to have the best case for historicity,
and I want to see that,
and I want to be able to put that side by side
and then go back and forth and go,
here's the best arguments for both sides, read both.
This is something that carrier's been saying for a while,
and despite it being, what is it now, five years
since on the historicity of Jesus came out,
there's been no solid response to it.
I've seen nitpicking, but never a,
let's get, come back with something strong.
You know, like let's give a total wipeout,
destroy what's been built here and annihilate it.
I think they just, a lot of them haven't taken it serious
like they should.
With that being said, when Christopher is ready,
I am friends with Christopher.
In fact, when it comes down to it, man, I don't care.
It doesn't matter because Santa Claus
is not really going down my chimney anymore.
He used to, even though he didn't, he did.
It's kind of weird, you know, looking back at things,
and I like to be cynical amongst those who are like me.
I would never go out of my way to try and harm anyone
who is a faith because I understand where they're at,
and I respect that, I do.
But I think it's fun to be able to jab at where I once was
and say, man, I was drinking that Kool-Aid.
It was so strong.
It's like seeing your young self, isn't it?
It is, it is.
And also, it really gives me patience, though.
It gives me patience with people, my family, for example.
I love them to death.
They don't think anything like I do.
They are fundamentalists at heart.
My dad's still a Roman Catholic at heart,
and they pray for me all the time,
and I just love them to death,
and I'm so glad someone cares enough about me
to think about me.
But when it comes to these things,
I'll have Christopher come on and do shows on our show
so that he could present his historical Jesus unbiased from me.
Like, there will be no...
This is the thing about myth-vision.
We're not here to pick you apart.
We're not here to critique you.
We may apply pressure at times.
As our show develops and grows, we'll apply some pressure.
But to allow the inquisitive mind of whoever's coming on
to present their case,
only to let them better further what they're trying to present.
We're not judgmental on where your approach is coming from.
We want you to be able to come on and present that view
with feeling like you have a cooperative team
to try and pick and mine the brain of the person presenting it
and to allow them to bring it on.
And there's some radical people we have on
that a lot of people don't even...
They debunk and say,
nope, I absolutely discredit this guy.
We don't even need to waste our time.
Myth-vision's not about that.
I mean, we do draw lines where we want to interview people
based on our own personal, what we want to do.
But we're not going to go out of our way to try and pick holes apart.
I would like to see him come on though
and talk about this thing you're talking about here.
Maybe I'll do it soon and say, where you at so far?
Tell us about your journey, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, it'd be interesting.
I really like listening to Chris's speech.
It's just that he does cross the line occasionally
and ironically goes down into insults.
Which is what he critiques carrier for.
It's quite funny watching quite often,
the two of them actually do the same thing.
They both insult other people and then complain
that both of them insult other people.
Yeah, I stay away from it, man.
I think it's best to stay out of the line of fire in those situations.
I mean, look, I get it all the time in my messages on this video.
This video might get some, by the way.
But I agree with you that I think we should just try to back up.
I think there's too many emotions involved in this thing.
And once you've deconstructed,
I don't understand why there's such an adamant toward one another.
The only thing I can think of is follow the money
when it comes to scholarship.
Because now you're competing with what I'm producing
and who's going to get the limelight.
It's like this battle that goes on there.
It shouldn't be like a belief system.
This shouldn't be like,
my doctrine is true, yours is wrong.
Here's why.
If Jesus did exist or didn't,
I'm just going to say it.
It might hurt my monetization.
I don't care.
Who gives a shit?
Ultimately, ultimately.
I'm saying it's fascinating.
It's definitely something where if anyone's asserting certainty
on either side,
then you can discard their opinion effectively
because they're not being unbiased about it.
They're emotionally involved.
And also, regardless of whether the historical Jesus
or mythical Jesus wins out in terms of historical method
in the end, both of them debunk the Jesus of faith.
So faith doesn't even enter into it.
Like when people are arguing for historical Jesus,
and this is something that Christians do.
They say, look, even this atheist believes
in the historical Jesus.
They're not believing in the Jesus of faith.
That's gone.
It's already the least likely option.
Just by definition, that's how supernatural works.
Yeah, they're doing strawmen.
They'll use things like Bart Ehrman in their videos.
Not realizing, and I've seen these great videos too, man.
They edit them so good.
They'll have these great cinematic 15-minute videos
where it's like proving Jesus is Lord.
And then they'll have these Bart Ehrman quotes.
And then if I wanted to pick that video apart,
I can take the quotes they had from Bart Ehrman
and use it against the very point
they're trying to make in their video
against their own thesis the whole time.
And we all have done that at times, I suspect.
Use people to try and get to our points.
But I'm trying to remain a skeptic, man.
And I think you are too,
and we're trying to figure out what's going on.
But we don't have a good reason to believe
what we've been given is sufficient
to just nail this case shut.
If anything, the case is opened more and more
as we continue to research,
because we're coming at this from so many different angles.
It's not just that Paul's skeptical.
It's that there's also this interesting, in my opinion,
there's an astrological root
to a lot of these things, in my opinion.
There's somewhat of a, what seems to be celestial.
I mean, it really ties into the same vein
of what Carrier and Bob have been doing.
Price, you know, Dr. Bob, Dr. Carrier,
they have been talking about the celestial Jesus, okay.
What I've been thinking is,
let's look at an astrological in nature.
You've got him coming on by a star.
You have, and this is gospel stuff.
So I'm not, let's not even look at gospel stuff, so to speak.
Okay, if Paul's Jesus is celestial in nature,
and he is mystery school related,
could he not be doing similar
astrological things that we do hear about?
I'm not going zeitgeist.
I'm saying there may be some root here
to an astrological basis for this Jesus,
rather than a literal root.
You've got this significance of the number 12 often comes up,
which is the thing is,
there's so much astrology in Judaism itself
that even if you do have astrological parallels,
then they're probably coming from Judaism anyway,
because just the sheer diversity of Judaism at the time,
and the way it was something of a cultural hub,
trade center where you get lots of different religions coming through,
it was probably the most mellow they've been for all their history,
because they used to talk about stunning people
from the wrong religion and all that sort of thing,
like Deuteronomy 13,
if you take the entire city down,
if somebody says they don't believe in God,
that sort of thing.
They didn't do that anymore so much.
I'm sure they're still stoned to people,
but they were more cosmopolitan at the time.
So yeah, it's definitely something which is worth investigating,
but the key I think is to stay somewhere near the middle.
I started out as full historicist when I started looking into this,
then went full mythicist,
and then sort of started swinging closer to the middle when I realized just,
although I don't think there's good evidence for Jesus,
the evidence that we've got is so poor, we can't tell.
So I lean on the mythicist side,
but yeah, I can definitely say the real answer is nobody knows.
We have no idea whether he existed or not,
we can only take probabilities and work out
whether we lean in one direction or the other.
So people who are near the middle are the ones who have thought it through, I think.
There's so much to learn.
Thanks for joining me on this show, Joel.
So any closing statements you'd like to make?
Nothing in particular, it's been a pleasure,
and I'm sure we'll find more specific things to discuss later.
I just wanted to keep it broad as a first stab.
You're absolutely right.
I think we did a pretty good job on being broad to some extent
and showing a couple of different things.
I mean, there's so much more we haven't talked about,
and be sure to go check them out on his channel.
You know, you've got your YouTube channel as well.
You don't plug as often as you'd like, I'm sure,
but go subscribe and check them out.
Not just mine, but it's a religious debate group.
But yeah, I tend to get involved the most.
Yeah, the mythicist group, correct?
So there's a Facebook group which is discussing mythicism,
and what we try and do is keep it no faith-based arguments, just history.
Try and keep the logical fallacies down to a minimum
so that we actually have some genuine discussions
between people who respect each other.
And on the whole, I think we do a good job of that.
The YouTube channel, I've mostly done religious videos
because it's based on a religious debate group,
but we've done a few on historicity as well, so.
Interesting.
Well, thank you for joining me, guys.
Like, share, subscribe to this channel, and your host, Derek Lambert.
