As a Christian, my whole life, I thought that this lady named Mary, the mother of Jesus,
literally, literally noticed I used the word literally, was impregnated by God.
And that was what I believed. I creedal Christian type. I never really put too much thought into it
critically. I did think, what are the Roman Catholics doing? Cut the crap. She was a virgin
when she gave birth to Jesus, but she had sex with Mary or with Joseph, not long after that.
And I think Matthew says, after that, he knew her or something, which is kind of like,
he was with her. That's what I thought. And then I found out that other men in history
had like, God's impregnate their moms. And I'm like, come on, man, like,
this is pretty big deal. Like, what's going on here? So Jesus is obviously the only person who
was ever like, divinely birthed in history, right? Well, no. Really? Yeah, you might be surprised to
learn that there are several of those. Now, this isn't parallelomania. This is the reality of the
ancient world. This is how, like I've been arguing all along, this is how you install someone in the
Hall of Fame. This is how you give them that extra credibility to rule, to be regarded.
Lots of times you find this in foundation myths or foundation stories. Kings end up being divinely
parented. They're demigods in that way. Was this an ontologically real kind of, no, this was a custom
that went on for generations and centuries and centuries. And you could find it in countless
individuals. I catalog, I don't know, like 50 or something like that in my book. And I was just
getting started. And so, yeah. And so I've got sired by Zeus, a whole bunch of these Achilles,
Athleus, Alexander, Ampheon, Argus, Pelascus, Castor, Corinthus, Corinthus, by the way, is the
founder of the city of Corinth was a demigod sired by Zeus. He had one human parent and one divine.
And so I could go on and on and on. The list is any number. It's kind of a who's who. And
there's a lot of people that you don't even know. There were just rulers and kings of various places
and times throughout the Hellenistic and Roman world that were elevated with this kind of story
embellishment. They were, you know, divinely parented. One, the key is that you've got one
god that is a parent that is God and another that is a mortal. And so normally that's going
to be a male god and a female mortal, but the opposite also happens with some of the female
beings. And so let me let me paint this another way. You're probably not used to having things
thrown at you like this, but I have, I had a conversation. Again, I mentioned in one of
our videos before with Michael Jones inspiring philosophy is what he goes by and other Christians
who just, you can tell they have disdain for what I'm saying when I say like, okay, okay, okay,
I read Suetonius lives of the Caesars on the divine Augustus. And I love the story. And I'll like,
I will get it out and read it to them and like be reading the portents leading up to this man's
life and his birth and his father, his real father, according to the story is Apollo. Okay. And like,
it's in the shape of a snake. And you know, and I'm like, dude, that's a cool story. I'm not gonna
lie. Like the eagle comes down and steals the food out of his hand and then realizes who he just took
the food from turns back around and comes and returns the food back. Hey, man, I am sorry, dude.
And later on, it's the same thing and eagles taking them off to heaven. So I'm throwing this at you
just to say like, is it wrong of me? Do you honestly think it's wrong of me to see that Jesus's
birth and that narrative, which we have two different kinds of narratives, but yeah, but
a narrative of a divine birth, both are doing it is smack dab in the middle of my walks like a
duck talks like a duck quacks like a duck. Oh, it would have been unmistakable. You know, it's now
now one of the things that is different is that it's immaculate, so to speak of the Catholics
called that it's an asceticized version of it. It's not Zeus's dalliances out, you know,
trying to get with women and this sort of thing. And the early Christian criticized some of that.
And even the philosophers that had nothing to do with Christianity were criticizing some of those
stories on those grounds because of the the emerging ascetical philosophies of the time
through Platonism and so forth. So that's going on and Christians are registering within that
marketplace of ideas, their hero in their way. But it's not different in kind or in meaning
in that way. And so it might be cleaned up, sanitized or whatever in terms of, you know,
it's not an X rated situation. But at the same time, though, it signals the exact same thing.
So just because she didn't have sex in this act, that makes no that ultimately makes no difference
of what kind of narrative this is. That is correct. And so in fact, we can go the the predecessor
to the Augustus myth. And by the way, Augustus, it's funny, because you get this wild little
story at the beginning, that's kind of like this decorative little gem at the beginning.
A very, very literary, very, very mythical, very, very, and you could see it. And all
of a sudden, the modality changes in the text to this mundane figure that's described in very
human terms for, you know, more or less, it's still exalted in some ways. But nowhere mistakes.
Yeah, there's a you could see the Augustus was a real guy. We're not, you know, but I don't think
anyone's losing sleep over the idea that maybe he was divinely parented. You know, I don't think
there's anybody taking that seriously. And for good reason, you know, we're rational people,
or at least we're supposed to be. That rationality goes out the window as soon as we get to Christianity,
for whatever reason, you know, these are sacred stories for, you know, and there's a whole history
behind that, as we all know. But we can need to be honest with ourselves. And so Augustus had,
as his predecessor, Alexander the Great. So if you go back to the divine birth myth of Alexander,
that was the greatest name of that time of a historical figure, you couldn't get any more
exalted than Alexander the Caesar's all were competing with his legacy, his his shadow over
the Hellenistic East covered the entirety of it. And so that looming figure was always in the minds
of people, especially anywhere you had the idea of ruling conquering, being a successful leader,
this kind of thing. And so everyone was, you know, fashion, you were measured against Alexander and
imitating Alexander was the way to power in that world. And so Augustus knew that and that divine
birth myth echoes some of the motifs that you get with Alexander's divine birth myth. Now what I do
in the book, I have an excursus where I go and say, not only is Matthew's texts like that, but it
mimetically is meant to follow that narrative. And so I take it a step further and say,
it's deliberate, you've got the most famous guy and this guy that's not even known. And that's
one of the things we need to get back to you also is that Jesus was a nobody in that world.
There were a lot of big people and big personalities. But when Christianity came on the scene,
he was unknown. There was nothing there. And we project back onto it equal significance with
everyone else. But that was not at all established at that point. And so he's competing and the
stories, the narratives that people are producing are in competition and trying to leverage some
of those larger cultural capital forms that were already in the marketplace at that time.
And so to mimetically follow Alexander, I mean, there's not much more you can do to be more
Hellenistic than that. Once you get to Matthew's divine birth myth, though, and that's a comparative
study that I have in the book that I offer is almost like a bonus, I guess. Study it all in
its own right, really. You really get to the bottom of what's going on there. You also have a
virgin birth with Alexander. It's told a little differently. But I follow the variety of mimetic
signals. And if you like, I could read it to you. Sure. Yeah, let me let me read a section here.
So this is from Plutarch. He's writing about Alexander's life here. And he's a Greek writer of
a middle Platonist, so to speak. Let me read a little bit of it. So that Alexander with regard
to his lineage, on his father's side, was a descendant of Heracles through Caranus. And on
his mother's side was a descendant of Icus, through Neotolomus is among those things entirely trusted.
It is said that Philip, after being initiated into the mysteries of Salmon Thrace, together with
Olympius, and while he was but a youth and an orphan, fell in love with her and so betrothed her.
Having persuaded her mother Arambus, then the night before they were to consummate the marriage,
the bride thought, while there was lightning and thunderbolt, while there was lightning,
that thunderbolt had fallen upon her womb. Okay, no one's having sex.
That had fallen upon her womb. From the below, a fire was ignited. Thereby, as it broke into
flames, the fire scattered in all directions. Later, after the wedding, Philip saw himself in
a dream placing a signet, a stamp, like a ring, impression on his wife's womb, hadn't been opened.
The emblem of the signet, as it seemed, had an image of a lion. In other words, she's still a
virgin. While the other diviners were distrusting the vision, namely that they needed
a more careful guard of Philip, of those who had attended the wedding,
Aristotle and Thalmesas said that she had conceived a man,
for nothing seals those things that are empty, and that she conceived a child
who was courageous and as a lion by nature. There then appeared a serpent, as Olympias slept,
stretched out alongside her body. They say that this most of all quenched Philip's love
and fondness of her, such that with her, he did not often have sexual relations as he lie with her.
Either because he feared that some of his wife's spells and enchantments may come upon him,
or because he avoided the curse of intercourse since she was joined to one greater than himself.
So they had avoided intercourse up to that point, married, and then he had relations with her,
but basically that's the story. Now let me lay out, now this feels like it's different, right?
It doesn't feel like a carving copy from Matthew, but let me lay out the similarities.
So a parental genealogical description placed at the beginning aimed at signifying the
respective hero via an established pedigree, a betroth juvenile couple who are in love,
the interpretation and interruption by the deity of the wedding betrothal process, impregnating
the bride through his signature principal element, namely Zeus's thunderbolt of fire
and Yahweh's sacred wind, Numa. The virginal conception and birth of the hero child,
the surrogate father abstains from sexual relations until the womb is opened through the
birth of the child, namely the breaking of the seal or the signet, drama over the sexual
fidelity of the bride and legitimacy of the conception, like is this, was it really divine or
what? There's a little bit of that question Mark brought up in Matthew. Distrust of the woman's
account of the child's conception, understandably, precipitating the need for the groom's divine
dream, thus restoring confidence in the bride's story, a prophetic description of the child given
in the groom's dream, establishing supreme expectation regarding the destiny of the child
and a later association with magic, though differently expressed in the two narratives.
In fact, in both narratives, you have magi in the divine birth myth of, and I document this,
there are magi that report that a great one has been born and this kind of thing, and that's the
same thing that you get in the gospels in Matthew, actually. And so the magi herald that there's,
and it's interesting because the magi were from Parthia in the east, they were the magic magicians,
so to speak, they were not under the same staunch Jewish paradigm. And so you could see in Matthew
a broader kind of metaphysical world that is more encompassing of the Levant generally and not just
Judaism. So you've got Iranomancy, that is dream divination going on quite a bit. You have the
invocation of magi, which I don't know how comfortable anyone that's a Christian today,
if they're conservative in any way, could be with that. And the magi were basically sorcerers
in the ancient world, they weren't Jewish at all. And yet they're going to the birth too,
that's something important to them. And so it's broadening the appeal, saying this is metaphysically
not so contained as you might think. Other traditions, other religions, it's reconciling them
into this kind of picture. So there was a dream to the husband on both? Yes. Okay, so this is
really interesting. I'd love to go read the whole full on, you know, not just what you wrote, but
like go and dig deeper because I wondered if there was an attempt at Alexander's life as a child,
because we see that in Matthew, but it may not need to be because what I find interesting is
there's this invocation to Moses' narrative, which you know that the Pharaoh's trying to kill all the
newborn children with Herod, but I see Suetonius. So if I could pull up the source right now, I
would, but I didn't have Suetonius on me. Yeah. Suetonius, Lives of the Caesars, the Divine
Augustus chapter, paragraph 94. I know the paragraph by heart now. I don't have it memorized, but
in it, he goes to explain that there's a lightning bolt that strikes this wall of Etai. Yeah. The
people of Etai start war with Rome thinking this is like evidence they're going to win. They're
almost to their own destruction. They stop and realize, okay, cognitive dissonance, whatever,
if you want to, like rationalize what they're doing. Yeah. Hold on, hold on, maybe he's just
going to come from our town. We need to stop this with Rome. And then it says that his mother
like that year, that they did not want to raise up or rear up their kids. So they did not write
them in the thing of the Senate because the Senate did not want children to be born that year.
You can't get any more explicit than the Roman Suetonius saying the Senate was going to kill
your child for being born that year because they were afraid that a ruler, a king, was going to come
because you know how the Senate is about kings and not a fan of them. And so like,
I'm thinking that's interesting. Suetonius has the same trope of the child's birth and needing to
kill that child. Just like Matthew has killed that child. Yeah. Moses has this in his story.
Kill that child. Yeah. I wondered if Alexander has. And even Reglyn has, he even says something
along those lines in his own, you know, treatment of that. So I just didn't know about Alexander
himself, but he may or may not have that specific element. Yeah. So there are other points of
contact with Alexander. For instance, when they come from the East, the Magi, they give proscunesis,
that is veneration, they bow, they bend the knee. This was cardinal importance to Alexander. If you
go back and read the narratives, you know, he had his own mythographer kind of following him around,
building him as greater than, you know, you know, above human, you know, and Calisthenes. And
basically in these narratives, you have, this is a big deal for him. And if you're going to rule in
the Persian East, you need proscunesis, you need people bowing to you as a divine figure. And so
this is kind of veneration and worship and this sort of thing. And so when they come and bring
their gifts and all that to meet with them, they've also, they also do proscunesis there. And so
proscunesis is super important in Matthew's gospel. It's also important to make ties to Egypt
in Alexander's career. He ends up at Siwa. And so part of his divination is kind of
confirmed there in so many ways. And to make Jesus also have ties with Egypt. I know that's
a loose part of the argument. It's a very, very end of it. But to me, after you see all the other
evidence, to try and, Matthew, trying to make a tie into Egypt in that way in terms of the way he's
presenting his divine king, that he's crafting in his narrative, to me, it feels like that also
belongs there as he's trying to create those associations in order to invoke the Alexander myth.
And this is completely hip shot here. Was it Alexander or was it Octavian or one of these
guys who went to Egypt because of the death of his father and then one of the Egyptian priests
corrected him and said, no, no, no, remember who your real father is. And it's a God or something
in one of those stories. I don't know. But it makes me think of Egypt. Egypt seems to be this hub
of like poof of divination all the damn time. So is this a signal? I can't read Matthew's mind,
but it's like, did he go to Egypt just so that I could say I called my son out of Egypt? Or did he
go to Egypt and they're using biblical stuff to kind of try to... What's hard to get into
people's minds is just how important this kind of a narrative would have been for, I mean,
the divine birth of Alexander or even Augustus for that matter, these were well circulated stories.
This isn't just one author in the corner writing this. These were the most important big stories of
the day that people were looking at. This was the big literature of the time. These are the sources
that people were reading. And it's pretty consistent that they decorate him in this way.
And the towering figure of Alexander would have loomed heavy over these texts. If you wanted to
present or produce a king in literature, there's no better way than to try and say, hey, guess what?
He's dressed up like Alexander. He's the new Alexander, Neos Alexandrus. This is what we're
looking at. This is, in order to even qualify for the job, you had to have that. You had to be
fast-stuned in that way. And so different rulers did it in different ways, but it's not surprising
to me to see Matthew doing that with his divine king. Thank you. I hope you liked my dad, Richard
Miller, in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe, and never forget, we are Miss Vision.
