In this clip, Camille Greger compares Jesus and Romulus. Are they comparable? Is there a good
reason when reading the Gospels to consider that maybe these authors are aware of Romulus,
the stories that have been told throughout the Roman Empire, about Rome's figurehead,
Rome's founder? Maybe. And let's compare it to Jesus. This comes from an interview where we were
responding back to Christian apologist Michael Jones from Inspiring Philosophy and David Wood.
Oftentimes we find that apologetics wants to kind of divorce Jesus from other figures and act like
he is unique and special and there is no comparison to anyone else. Not only do we find there is
comparison, but while he is unique and special in his own way, so is every other figure, God,
demigod, men who become gods once they die in a sin, you name it. Everybody's unique and has a
different story to tell, but we're trying to flatten the field or even the playing field.
I hope you enjoy this clip. Don't forget, like the video, comment, let us know what you think about
it, check out the Patreon for many more videos and help support us with our work. We have a missing
body. Romulus doesn't die or at least, you know, that there are, as with actually the Gospels,
there are several different versions of the story floating around. So just like there are people who
think that, oh, the disciples just stole the body, there are also people who think that Romulus was
murdered by a conspiracy of the Senate. And that's how he disappeared, like his body disappeared
because after he was murdered, the senator has chopped his body up and hit the pieces.
And that's why he's nowhere to be seen. But in the alternative version, which is what supposedly
happened in the mythology, he is ascended. So he just disappears from earth, right? We have a
disabled body. We have prodigies. So his translation is actually foretold in advance. That is a
motif of darkness over the land. He gives a speech on a mountaintop. He gives a great commission
specifically to Proclus. So he appears later to a Roman noble. He reveals his identity. He tells
him who he is. He tells him that he has a new divine name. And then he gives Romans commission.
He tells them what they are supposed to do, what their ethical imperatives are. Of course,
being Romans, it has to do with conquering the world, right? But that's explainable by
these cultural differences. He ascends to heaven. He's a son of a god, in this case, Mars.
The meeting is on a road, which is parallels. There is an argument that the appearance to
Proclus parallels specifically the appearance to the two disciples on the road to Emmaus.
There's eyewitness testimony. So Proclus actually testifies before the Roman Senate that this is
what happened. And that's like a legal basis for the Senate recognizing essentially
Romulus as a deity and officiating his worship, temples being built in this name,
rituals being performed, festivals and stuff like that. He's taken away in a cloud. This is
something that I've talked about last time. People in the ancient world had a particular way to
depict disappearance. So they didn't do it how the way how we do it in movies where you just
like fade away. When someone disappears in the ancient world, they disappear into a cloud. So
they are obstructed from vision. They just don't like disappeared like a the transporter beam in
Star Trek. So again, is it just a coincidence that in the one text that describes specifically
Jesus ascending to heaven? We have this motif also given that this is how people did it back then.
I don't think so. There are dubious alternative accounts. So again, and this is by the way a
very, very frequent element, right? I have hundreds and hundreds of examples now,
under specific passages that have to do with this divine translation. And there are two
elements that are extremely common. As soon as someone mentions that someone was translated
into a divine being, they say two things. First of all, they say that the person is being worshipped,
and they usually go on to describe the worship. So they say, Oh, they have a temple here, or this
festival is being performed in their name. They are being honored by these sacrifices and stuff
like that. It's almost always tied very closely together, usually in the same like paragraph or
in the same passage. And the second element that's almost always there is there are actually
multiple different accounts. One of them has the divine translation, but the other one explains it,
you could say naturalistically, right? So, you know, in one account, the person is translated and
becomes a divine being. But then there are alternatives that are consistent with them,
not actually being divine beings. And there are reasons for that it has to do with how people
people had a tendency in the ancient world to rationalize myths, and to kind of bring them
more in line with everyday human experience. You have a realization of mythologies, for example,
along the same lines. We have an immortal heavenly body. It's outside the city. Okay.
People flee. So that was a specific festival that commemorated the ascension of Romulus called
Populi Fugia, which were actually the whole thing was apparently ritualistically performed.
And there are several sources that say that. And one of the things that was performed was
this flight of the people. You can imagine it like celebrating Easter, for example,
here in Central Eastern Europe. We have passion plays. You probably have that as well in the U.S.,
right? Where you kind of recreate the scenery. And of course, in this case, the flight of the
people would parallel the disciples scattering. You have deification, of course. By the way,
Romulus pre-existed because he wasn't just a human being who became a god after he died.
Romans believe in pre-existence. They believed that these people who were deified were already
divine before they were born. It's just for a brief period of time for one human lifespan,
they were born to mortal women and they lived on Earth as human beings. And after they died,
they returned to the divine realm. It's actually interesting. You can see it very clearly in Latin
because unlike Greek, when Latin writers write about this, they use verbs that have an element
of repetition. So they say he returned, right? It doesn't say he went to heaven,
though he returned to heaven because he was already there before he was born.
Yeah, belief in rejoicing. So that is like an element of some cognitive resistance. So people
don't buy it. People are confused. They don't know what's happening. And then there is recognition
and then there is rejoicing. Bright and shining appearance. Yeah, that's also interesting. Again,
Romulus, when he appears in full body armor, Jesus doesn't do that, even though there are
depictions of Jesus as a warrior, of course. But again, it's explainable. It's a different
matrix of religious symbology that has to do with how the deity is different, how it performs in its
religious framework, right? So these are, oh, we have more. People are frightened,
or Prokéos is frightened, or both, sort of overloss. So people are grieving before they realize
what happens. Inspired message of apotheosis. I don't actually know what this is supposed to be.
What is missing here? And I don't know why. It's a divine name. This is something that I
also mentioned the last time. Jesus receives a divine name that he apparently didn't have before.
When he's exalted, the divine name is Curios, the Lord. We have it in Philippians 2. And
Romulus also receives a divine name, Query News. And what's interesting is that in both cases,
the reason why this divine name is received is the same. Both Jesus and Romulus have this
divine name because they need to be merged or synchronized with previous deities. So they're
probably, we don't know because sources on Roman religion are relatively scarce, especially early
on, but there probably was an already existing Roman deity named Querynus. And when the Romans
started worshiping Romulus as a god, they just merged the two. And the way how this was depicted
in mythology is that Romulus received this divine name. So he became or became again
the god Querynus. And the reason why Jesus receives the divine name Curios in Philippians 2
is to solve the question of how is it the case that Jesus can atone for sins if in the
Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible, it says repeatedly that the only
South African agent, the only person who can atone for sins is Curios, the Lord. Of course,
the solution is right there in Philippians, or Jesus receives the name Curios when he's exalted.
So he now has the authority or the prerogative to forgive sins. And all of the passages in
the Hebrew Bible that talk about the Curios being the only agent who can forgive sins,
now apply to Jesus. So that's fine. And Paul pretty much says this explicitly in Romans as well.
So that's another parallel that's missing. A lot of this, I think is pretty weak source.
So I wouldn't posit like a genetic link between Jesus and Romulus. But if someone
made me bet like a large amount of money on whether there is a specific deity that at least
the Gospel of Luke is being modeled on, like so if someone told me there really is a genetic link
with one of these examples, and you are going to win a prize if you guess correctly,
then I would probably guess Romulus. But I think, yeah.
Yeah.
Not sure, like I wouldn't argue for a genetic link necessarily. But it's really interesting.
And you have to also, it's important to frame it specifically in the context of the first
century, right? Because what was happening in the first century is the beginning of the Roman
Principate. So Romans have just finished the conquest of the Mediterranean world, and they were
ruling pretty much the entire known world from the perspective of people in Judea with an iron
fist. And there was a sustained imperial propaganda of imperial deification. So this ruler of the
world was being depicted. There was like a systematic cultural attempt to depict him,
and people around him, his predecessors and his subsequent emperors as divine beings.
This is something that early Christians knew about. And this is something that the gospel
authors knew about. Like when Jesus is handed to Daenerys, and he says, oh, to Caesar,
that belongs to Caesar, and to God, what belongs to God. Daenerys literally had an inscription
saying, a son of God. It would be a Daenerys of Caesar Tiberius. And on Daenerys that were
minted with Tiberius, it literally says, there was Philius, sorry, Philius Dei, a son of God,
son of a God, because his predecessor, Caesar Augustus, was a God. So you have to imagine,
like you have to keep in mind, this is something that, for example, John Dominic Crossen talks about,
that this is the culture in which the people lived in. And it's not really implausible to
believe that someone in the position of the gospel writers would try to push back against this,
and they would try to create like a counter-cultural figure around Jesus.
And this is something that, for example, Richard Miller also goes on, like the framework of his book,
Resurrection and Reception in Early Christianity, is colonial and post-colonial theory. It's a
framework for analyzing how in the environment of colonialism, there is a cultural interaction
between the colonizing culture and the culture of the people that are being colonized, and how
sometimes the people who are being colonized try to subvert the culture of the colonizers.
And one of the ways how you could subvert it, if you are being ruled by the Roman Empire,
is like intentionally depicting the hero that you identify with as sharing similarities with
the Deified Emperor, but also depicting him differently, better, contrasting him,
depicting him as more Jewish, and these kinds of things.
