Okay, looks like we're live here, myth-vision podcast.
What can we learn about Jesus and his life by using the methods of historical materialism?
Several scholars and writers in the past have sought to answer this.
Some of the first were Albert Koltov, forgive me if I butchered their names, and Karl Kotsky.
And it was used throughout Soviet Russia and the People's Republic of China in analyzing early Christianity and Jesus.
But true biographies of Jesus from a Marxist perspective have been rare in recent years.
But that has now changed.
This is the first major historical materialist biography of Jesus in the 21st century from leading scholars in the field
Dr. James G. Crossley and Dr. Robert J. Miles.
And they present one of the most intriguing and sociologically cogent views of the Jesus movement and Jesus himself.
Let's get this party started.
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
I hope, I sincerely hope, those of you watching today will learn some new things, something you've never heard.
It may bring some historical reality to the things we've been reading all along.
And I have two amazing scholars joining me.
I want to give a first, I want to give a shout out to Chrissy Hansen for helping me formulate some of the questions that I put together today.
And feel free to super chat yours along the way.
We'll try to get to them.
With that being said, no more waiting.
Here we are with our guest.
And that is Dr. James Crossley and Dr. Robert Miles.
Welcome to MythVision.
Thanks for having us.
All right, I'm going to walk away and you guys just handle the show.
This book, why did you write this book?
Well, do you want me to take this one first, Robert?
You go for it, James.
I've been interested in historical Jesus for, I mean, a long time since the 90s.
And I've been doing work on historical Jesus for the best part, maybe 25 years in some way or other.
But I also work in apocalypticism studies or apocalyptic studies and I also work on English political history and they're all related really.
But I wanted to write a full biography of Jesus or historical Jesus or something approximating historical Jesus, you know, before I go off and do various other things.
And I'd written quite a lot, but there was, I hadn't got it fully there and I'd worked with Robert before.
And Robert had been working on areas I'd not really covered.
To take one example, Robert is a big fishing expert.
And so I needed his expertise on that among various other things.
And so we talked and we got together and we thought we would like to do a book on historical Jesus.
There wasn't straightforwardly, you know, sort of a niche academic book, you know, 80 pound special or whatever.
But something that would be a bit more popular and something we wanted to do something that would be in the tradition of, I mean, I think you said it in the introduction,
in the tradition of historical materialist readings of Jesus is tradition of locating Jesus in his economic context, social economic context.
What are the reasons that give rise to this movement without focusing so much on the wonders of the great man Jesus and all this kind of thing.
To see how this would be understood in an ancient agrarian peasant context, how we can explain it in these kinds of terms and how it connects with the ongoing movement of history, if you like.
And we wanted to write this and because as you said, rightly in your introduction, this is not something that has been done on the left in socialist circles
or in historical material circles, however you want to word it, this stuff has not been done when there was once a really strong tradition.
Now it's just overlooked because I don't think anyone, there's no expertise there or people simply don't want to touch religion when it comes to issues of economics and things like this.
Certainly not ancient religion anyway.
Dr. Crossley, is there any way to get the volume up a little? Our audience can't wait to hear what you're saying and some of them are having a hard time hearing you.
You're good, don't worry. This is in church.
Can you hear me now?
Yes, keep talking.
I'm speaking words to these come across well, I don't know.
That's better, I think that's better.
That should be better, but never mind, okay, sorry about that.
That's much better.
Do you want me to repeat that?
Oh no, I think you talk about the social historical setting and writing almost, this is something that hasn't been done in the 21st century, the way that you guys are writing this book.
No, no, I think there's been stuff done, there's been some quite interesting stuff done, but I think a lot of it goes in a very sort of soppy wet liberal direction.
Jesus is a nice hippie kind of guy or whatever, rather than trying to locate Jesus really much more strictly in the context of his material conditions and how he would react in relation to his material conditions.
So a peasant context is not necessarily going to give us hard egalitarian socialist thinking of the modern era or anything like that.
It's going to give us the kind of reactions you'd expect from peasants.
Yeah, if I can, if I can jump in there, yeah, I think exactly in terms of my own interest in this.
It's allowed me to bring two related interests together. One of them that I've had for a while is the social world of early Christianity of the New Testament.
Going back to my PhD work, I was very much interested in the social forces, the material forces around Galilee around Palestine at the time, and situating the early Jesus movement and the narratives and the Gospels and so on, within that kind of context.
So I had looked at Jesus's itinerancy, not as this kind of romanticized, wandering religious teacher so much not to deny that that may or may not have been, you know, important, but rather to look at his movements around the place in terms of him
responding to broader or external social and economic forces. So that that's kind of part of the background and then the other aspect that I've been interested in for a while is, is critiquing existing historical Jesus scholarship of the past 3040 years, in terms of how it
continuously kind of like romanticizes Jesus whether, you know, economically, politically, religiously, whatever it is, Jesus always seems to be somehow elevated above his, his context, even when he even when scholars will talk about the social and economic forces, it's as if Jesus is this kind of entrepreneurial
visual who is operating at a kind of different level he's special in some way he's different in some way. And so a lot of my previous work for an academic audience has been critiquing that.
And then, you know, I knew James was working on this and we discussed doing a kind of collaborative effort because I think by melding our two histories and approaches we were able to produce this unique book about a non unique Jesus.
I suspect the first question I should ask both of you just you've already mentioned it but it's worth giving people somewhere to start methodologically speaking. What is historical materialism. How does it work as a method of analyzing history.
Just jump in here.
Historical materialism in basic terms is analyzing the historical context in relation to the dominant economic modes of production.
And in an even bigger picture, how do you explain the development of human history from ancient societies through to feudalism through capitalism and future transformations.
So what are the economic bases and grounds for this that make human actors behave the way they do and interact with their social circumstances.
So that's the very broad understanding of it in these terms so we know to narrow this down even further we would say well what are the dominant modes of production in the ancient world or in the Roman Empire or in the eastern Mediterranean.
Now this can this is quite difficult question it's much easier if you're talking about today so we can say capitalism and that's quite easy, difficult to work out the specifics obviously but generally it's a fairly obvious answer.
And there's a number of interrelated answers to that in the ancient world is it a dominant slave economy for instance, or and or it's not always a opposition to one another or is it was we like to think of it in somewhere like Galilee.
It would be a tribute system where the money would be at some level funded up to funneled off to the aristocracy or Roman Empire ruling class or whatever.
But more locally when this is what we really focus on is the relationship between town and countryside.
So the producers the dominant producers in the ancient world of food stores produce all this kind of thing will come from the countryside and by and large siphoned off by the elites in the towns.
And so what's that what how does that kind of relationship help us understand the rise of a movement like the Jesus movement and what we've got in Galilee as Jesus is growing up to building projects.
And typically these will extract resources from the countryside and really introduce some degree of significant social and economic change and we've got some evidence of this.
I mean, people argue all the time about whether the standard of living was improved or not or what did it heighten oppression or whatever.
I think that's far too simplistic.
But we do know that there were people removed from lands and given gifts of land.
So it's changing the traditional social and economic fabric of the world when Jesus growing up.
And hence we suggest that ideas of apocalypticism, millenarianism and practically anything tied in with reactions to these changing social circumstances.
And along the way I might pop up I figure we go through chapter by chapter to kind of like see the things you mentioned in your book, which will remind new viewers for popping on to get a copy.
Of course, it's pinned at the top of the chat.
It's in the description.
But also just keep in mind, you're not only getting a great book and learning great education on understanding what scholars are thinking on these topics.
You're also giving the scholars on the screen the opportunity to want to come back and join us here at MythVision.
So introduction, a life in class conflict.
If you don't mind, tell us what the introduction is trying to, what kind of road you're ready to pave with this introduction.
I can take this one James.
And I think just tying it back to the last question as well. I think that the last two questions.
I think one of the big reasons why we wanted to write this book as well was because there's a lot of misunderstanding about Marxism class class conflict, especially when it comes to Jesus.
And so we wanted to kind of set the record straight.
And so we launched into the book in the introduction by stating exactly this, saying, look, a Marxist reading of Jesus, you know, doesn't necessarily mean selectively picking out evidence to show Jesus as a socialist.
You know, you could you could do a historical materialist reading of any figure of history, including say Hitler, it wouldn't make Hitler a communist.
Rather, what it means is situating that figure and the movement they were a part of, in terms of the broader social material forces, the productive forces of their time and place.
So that's exactly what our project is seeking to do. That's what we mean by historical materialism.
I think the other related issue that we sometimes run into, or misunderstanding that we sometimes run into around class is this idea that class either class is unimportant to other factors.
But this question, this question of other factors is kind of reduces class to this individual identity performance.
So, you know, I'm a I'm a working class person so I dress a particular way and I speak a particular way and so on. And this is all really interesting stuff.
But that's not actually at the heart of what the historical materialist approach is trying to get at, which is to understand how certain ideas, movements, responses emerge out of or are generated by an underlying socio economic system.
As complicated as that may be. And one point to add to that is that when people, when ideas emerge or people respond to and react to their socio economic circumstances, that happens whether we're kind of consciously doing it or not.
So one of the other misunderstandings is, oh, you're just saying that the Jesus movement were responding to their socio economic conditions but actually look, they had religious ideas or they were doing other things.
Well, that that again misses the point that we are always responding to our material situation, whatever we're doing all the time.
Right, right. We are we are grounded and embedded within a social and material context and whether we know it or not, we're responding to that social and material context and so that so we dispel a few of those misunderstandings to begin with.
Before talking about a couple of the social forces and dominant ways in which reactions to material forces in the first century could be understood, which I'll let James talk about in a minute.
Like such as millenarianism and banditry. And then before turning to the question of, I suppose some of the technical questions of sources and the, yeah, the kind of the critical questions of that have been asked by the discipline of New Testament studies itself, in terms of how the
Gospels, how the New Testament documents actually relate to the historical Jesus and what is the historical Jesus.
And Dr. Crossley, before you get into millenarians and banditry, if you don't mind, either one of you want to answer this, but before we answer that question, which is my question, what is class conflict in the early first century in rural Galilee and Judea.
We talked about class conflict. What is that using the materialist approach.
Before we even get into the millenarians because they're going to fall within that category but we need to know what it even is.
Well, I think I'd go back to what I said before that the, the changing circumstances that it opens up the, well, there's a lot of things that open up, but the, the idea that the elites in towns will extract surplus and produce and so on from the agricultural
workers, for instance, is a class relationship. Now, sometimes there may be little awareness of or care about this. Other times the conflict element will be heightened and will come on to millenarianism and banditry.
There are ways of heightening that conflict. Sometimes it might simply just be grumbling and be miserable about your lot. Other times it might be collaboration. Other times it might be opportunism or whatever.
But that's the fundamental class relationship we think in Galilee at the time, the idea of the producers in the countryside and the elites who extract the surplus in particularly based in the urban centers.
And I think that's the, that's the, that's the, and remember there's a whole tradition of, doesn't matter how we map this on into reality, there's a whole tradition of rich exploiting the poor, that sort of language that can be used.
It's a, it's a, it's a cross cultural phenomenon. So particularly within like an agricultural or sorry, an agrarian society, such as within Palestine under the Roman Empire, you know, you can, you can analyze different parts of that through history, and you can, you can see similar exploitative
relationships going on between, you know, the elites and the non elites. And it's important to nuance those in the kind of context specific ways.
But we can also point to the more general picture and the ways in which you can see cross culturally similar kinds of protest ideas or movements or phenomena emerging.
I've interviewed John Dominic Cross in a few times and he does something, I'm not saying it's the same exactly, but it seems like he's trying to place Jesus in historical context in which you're kind of describing here where he sees Tiberius comes on the scene.
The guy takes over the Galilee. I mean, he literally takes the lake turns it into his, they're taxing fishermen. I mean, this was, it really hurt the poor.
And so he sees this kind of movement of Jesus coming out of this kind of social economic crises for those who are in that lower class.
And there's that struggle on top of the fact that somewhere around the time when Judas, Judas the Galileans on the scene, there's some turmoil in the air and in fact, allegiance had to common.
So here's Jesus being brought up in this what seems to be fricked like a big friction between the Empire and maybe those who are upper class to these, what we would call peasants or people who are not their lower class, probably some are slaves, just in a struggling type of environment.
That was the way he kind of painted the picture and it sounded like more realistic like that. That sounds like something's going on here. Is this the direction that you gentlemen are taking?
I think there's, I think over the past, let's say 30 odd years, cross and raise some very, very significant questions in historical Jesus studies along the lines that you've just said.
Now I may disagree with bits and pieces here and there, but I think the general gist of what he's saying like that is important and it should have been taken a lot more seriously in historical Jesus studies than it was.
Unfortunately, it wasn't.
Where historical Jesus scholarship went was what's the resulting picture that Crossen came up with. It was a cynic like figure, playful, whatever, and that's what got debated, as well as Crossen's fairly unique-ish, if I can use that phrase, approach to sources.
That's what got discussion because nobody was really, not nobody, but a lot of the mainstream historical Jesus scholars, sanders, the rights and people like this.
And we're just simply not interested in the economic, social economic context and they're quite explicit about this in the books that they just, they're not going to bother talking about this.
This is crucial, I think. And I think what we're doing is, well, and I don't know if I can speak for Robert, I can certainly speak for myself, is I think I would really want to answer Crossen's challenge about locating Jesus in these contexts, but I would answer it in a very different way to Crossen.
And I think he raised some crucial questions about the economic context that just simply got ignored and they should never have been ignored. And I'm hoping we can start pushing that debate forward a lot more now.
Well, we'll see.
There's so much good stuff here. And look, I think he was hitting some things that just rung true to me in my head, yet he kept wanting to, in my opinion, Crossen's an amazing, amazing guy, but he kind of wants to save Jesus from this apocalyptic, really bad look, which I titled this thumbnail pretty raw.
I mean, the fell revolution, right? So he wants to go, well, maybe Jesus did, maybe didn't. But if we spearheaded the reality of what Jesus would have been, and that's what your book is showing, I think we're getting closer to what seems to be the situation.
And so what is a millenarian? What are the banditry? What is this whole thing? Is this pre-Jesus, pre-Christian? Were Jews millenarians before that?
Do you mind if I just tell you?
Yeah, you go for it. Before you launch into it, I think it's just worth really quickly pointing out that this is exactly right, that this is a big distinction between what we've done and say, like Crossen, is the emphasis on the apocalyptic and the millenarianism.
And I think we do that precisely because the ways in which the early Jesus movement and Jesus in particular were responding to their material conditions needed to be culturally credible within a Jewish non-elite context.
So I'll say that, and then James can continue with the specifics.
I mean, Crossen knows this background, and he's got some pretty good stuff on banditry, and he knows that banditry, for instance, is one way of reacting, one escape route, one way of channeling these kinds of discontents.
A bandit can at least promise whether it's going to happen, there's another question across, but a bandit can promise the opportunity for retribution.
You can attack the wealthy, you can become a common thug thief, whatever as well as a whole range of different types of options for bandits and banditry.
There's an option, there's a violent option, potentially violent option, that you can either just right the wrongs or you can make a living that way.
The other often overlapping option is the millenarian.
And this is where I think, again, where I depart from Crossen is that millenarianism is a crucial option at the time.
Millenarianism offers a fantastical vision of an alternative world where there's a just rulers, there'll be life of plenty, all these kinds of things.
The hierarchy will work in the interest of the peasantry, all this kind of thing, and it will happen, there'll be supernatural intervention or whatever.
That and banditry are the two central options open, culturally credible as Robert said.
And where I, as much as I respect Crossen's work, where I depart from him, is I don't think his idea of a playful, egalitarian, brookless kingdom,
I just simply don't think that was a significant option in first century Galilee that would have made much sense.
I think someone steeped in the world of apocalypticism, millenarianism would.
Okay, so just so our audience is on the same page, two things.
And I know you're going to address this, I'll say this second.
He kind of makes this sharp distinction between the Book of Revelation, whoever this author is, from the Jesus movement himself.
He almost seems like this is an offshoot.
This almost sounds like a remnant to me of like an early, very Jewish apocalyptic figure, rather than saying this is just some offshoot guy who didn't have what was in common with Jesus.
That's where I think you guys are both saying, if you're reading the book of Revelation, you're actually probably closer to some of the reality of what the earlier Jesus movement probably was thinking about.
Against Rome, against, you know, the upper class, the rich, those who work with Rome that sleep with the whore of Babylon and all the sexual language, the gender language and all that stuff that plays a role.
That's what you're saying actually fits more on Jesus.
I think it's a trajectory there.
Yeah, I think there's, I mean, again, Revelation's got its own agenda.
I mean, it's still a later development, but we might see it as an embellishment or an elaboration on earlier themes.
Absolutely.
You can map out the trajectory and it's not surprising one, I don't think.
Okay.
And then what is millenarianism?
Someone might be like, they keep talking about this guy named Miller.
So what is millenarianism?
Well, I mean, depends.
I'm using it or we're using it in the cross cultural sense, not typically in the sense of the literal sense of 1000 year rule or whatever, but more in the sense of promise of a golden age, the expectation of an imminent golden age.
The transformation of the world.
Those kind of common things you find in different cultures, different contexts across time, but they used in different kinds of ways, obviously.
And this was a classic pre-modern option in agrarian societies for someone like Jesus.
Yeah, to imagine a new world.
So I think it's an ideology or a framework that is attested cross-culturally, but also especially within early Judaism as a popular way of interpreting social and economic discontent and dreaming of a way in which the present social circumstances might be radically transformed by
a divine being intervening in human history and bringing about the changes that are required.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Going to chapter two, because we think we milked the, was it chapter two?
We did the intro?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Chapter two, growing up in a gentrifying Galilee, get the book, everybody, if you're watching this, my question is, what did the gentrification and class conflict in Galilee look like?
How would this have influenced Jesus' upbringing?
What are some of the events going on that contributed to this?
And I think I mentioned just a couple of things, but you probably have better actual historical examples you can get into.
What was that like?
And can you paint a picture for our audience?
Yeah.
Over a number of decades, there was a long process of what we might call kind of urbanization, urban development across Galilee, across actually the whole of Palestine.
It sort of began before the time of Jesus during the rulership of Herod the Great, who initiated a number of building projects, particularly in Judea.
So he founded the city of Caesarea Maritima, where Pilate would be stationed later on.
It was a major city on the coast, which connected this area with sea trade routes into the Roman imperial economy.
Herod the Great also built a number of fortresses and so on, and most famously initiated the major refurbishment of the Jerusalem Temple, which became known as Herod's Temple.
So Herod the Great dies in 4 BCE, and his kingdom is split among his sons.
And one of the sons who inherits is Herod Antipas.
So Herod Antipas is the Herod that we hear about in the Gospels as well.
When Jesus is an adult, he's the one who arrests and has John the Baptist executed.
And in the Gospel of Luke, he also plays a part in Jesus' own trial.
And this Herod, kind of following in the footsteps of his father, also wanted to be remembered as this great builder.
Over his very long tenure, he initiated two major building projects that we know about.
There may have been others, but there were two significant ones.
They get mentioned in Josephus' writings.
And this included both the rebuilding of Seferus, which had been destroyed by the Romans following an uprising following Herod the Great's death.
So he has it rebuilt and re-fortified to the extent that Josephus can actually refer to it as the ornament of all Galilee.
And I remember Josephus as this elite Jewish figure writing from an elite perspective.
So when he talks about raising cities, we do need to see this in class terms.
Seferus was very close to the small village of Nazareth.
And the surrounding countryside, the villages in the surrounding countryside would have had increased economic demands.
They would have had to increase their productivity to feed the needs of these new urban environments.
The other major urban settlement that Herod Antipas founds in 19CE.
So this is right before the early Jesus movement was about to start organizing this millenarian response is the building of Tiberius on the Sea of Galilee on the lake,
which is named after the Emperor Tiberius to pay homage to the Roman power that backs Antipas' power.
And this again allows this policy of kind of Herodian urban development allows them to better exploit the economy.
So in the case of Tiberius, you know, you've now got the city dominating the lakefront, which means that better connected elites can extract the wealth they need to.
It puts increased demand on, you know, smaller fishermen in smaller villages like Capernaum or Bethsaida or wherever around the lake who had, you know, presumably just been involved in catching enough to feed themselves and their families.
Suddenly, you've, you're not only sustaining these small villages that they were a part of, but also this massive metropolis on the lake and the elites who live there.
The other material factor that comes across in terms of the building of these settlements is the displacement of peasants, the upheavals.
So this is something that we don't normally expect to see in some of our elite sources like Josephus.
He's more interested in telling us about the great achievements of great men like Herod and so on.
But in the building of Tiberius, he actually does mention that the, that the founding that that city, the site where it was built was on an old Jewish graveyard.
And Herod actually had to forcibly shift people, including poor people, you know, both in terms of a way and to live there.
So people were caught up in these, in these displacements. And if you just think about this at a kind of human level at that concrete level of what this would do to just, you know, an ordinary person or family being taken off their land moved around for the for the whims of these elite building projects.
Presumably it caused a bit of angst. I don't know.
The idea that everyone would have been happy with these changes is, is not really a warranted idea. And the, but, you know, with that said, the material effects of, and the economic effects of these urbanization projects were kind of this double-edged sword,
because some people would have benefited from them. So there was an overall, it appears there was this overall gradual increase in economic prosperity.
But that doesn't necessarily mean that, you know, the spoils were distributed equally. That would talk about everything against everything we know of an agrarian society.
And scholars have tried to use that point to that to suggest that it downplays the significance of class conflict in Galilee. We say, no, that that, you know, class conflict will be happening irrespective of whether there's an overall increase in prosperity or not because
of the kind of conflict model of the ancient economy. We know that these things are going to create antagonisms. They're not going to be shared equally. And people are going to get upset. And even if they've got, even if their circumstances have, for some people have increased, they might want more as well.
The idea that people are always happy with what they've got, I think speaks more to perhaps some of the kind of, you know, elite perspectives of modern day interpreters reading from a position of comfort than the desperation that may have been felt of some of these people who were affected by these urbanization projects in the first century.
And people are acting in the material interests constantly. You know, they want more. They might be opportunistic. They might want to take advantage. They might want the elites to die terribly. I mean, this can manifest itself in different ways, but people act in what they often will perceive to be their material interests one way or another.
And I think we've got to get beyond that simplified model of rich people, oppressed poor people, poor people react. It's much more complicated than that.
I'll just add one more thing, Derek, please. I mean, amidst all this, we do try to weave in something akin to a conventional biography. Neither of us are particularly confident about how much we can know.
But we do talk about things like Jesus' parentage or where he was born, you know, and things like that, as much as we can, which is not very much, obviously.
But we try to weave into this as best we can, more conventional details of a biography, but we really wanted to emphasize these kind of material things that are happening.
And in this, this is where we try to talk about what role does a figure like Jesus take. And we use the phrase religious organiser, which is comparable to something like the local intelligentsia or something like this.
You get lower clergy, for instance, in medieval England acting in this kind of role, where something like discontent in Galilee could remain local and parochial and all this.
But you get certain people who take on the role of either sort of outsider or the local intelligentsia, which, or as what does happen, scribal figures that can allow this, the ideas to spread and connect amongst different groups amongst a wider audience.
There's so much to discuss. So I'm going to press forward to the next chapter. And I think this is an interesting one. We're talking about John the Baptist.
I think there's a lot of crosshairs here that get discussed. We see him clearly in Josephus. Mark is doing something different with this guy.
And somewhat, I mean, there's details that you could say overlap, then there's details you would say like, Well, maybe maybe Mark's doing something different with his narrative.
But at the end of the day, there's there's a lot of comparison there. And you point that there's that he's not entirely unique, similar to a figure like Bannis.
Can you comment about that real quick? I'm curious to know about this figure named Bannis.
I mean, Bannis is a comparable figure in the sense that he goes out into the wilderness and is seen as understood to have lived a kind of aesthetic or steer lifestyle and so on.
So what someone like that shows is that there are comparable figures in the world and it's not too unusual to hear a figure like John.
Now, that doesn't mean to say they're identical. John the Baptist had clearly had ideas in the direction of similar to Jesus in terms of millenarianism and so on and so forth.
There's some interesting comparisons to be made and get quite technical.
Are they concerned with issues of purity and things like that? That's an interesting question.
So we really remember, but I don't think we go into that in any detail. The key thing is, I think that this is one of those options for a religious organizer.
If you want to have cultural credibility as a figure who's got access to the divine in some ways, you can either be a status quo figure who wants to make just dampen any unrest or you could be someone.
For instance, in the prophetic tradition, I guess, who was claiming some kind of access to the divine and acting on behalf of the divine and a channel for the divine, but also as somebody who's representative of the populace.
And one thing you get with John the Baptist is a comparable figure who is, as far as we know, is popular.
You get that from Mark and you get that from Josephus. So we've got two independent references. You can get it as well if you want to push Q, I think.
He's a figure who's emerging there when we've also got comparable building projects happening in Judea.
Robert mentioned the vast rebuilding of the temple that would be probably the best example and creating his own popular movement there.
And there's a number of interesting things we can say about John the Baptist. His death would be as important as any in that what happens with John the Baptist is he's killed almost certainly, I think, because he's popular.
Now, he probably is preaching that the world will be transformed and everything's going to be put right and all that kind of thing.
But from the perspective of either Roman or local power or Roman Stooges or whatever, that distinction doesn't really matter too much.
You know, if you've got a popular movement out there in the wilderness, echoes of Exodus and things like this, you kill and ask questions later and you might not even ask questions later.
But these are the kind of figures that get killed. We know of others, but I think it's further important because with John the Baptist killed for believing in something roughly similar to what someone like views attributed to Jesus.
It means that someone like Jesus can be killed as well. And this is part, I think, the reason why we think ideas of martyrdom and death and things like this could actually be quite very early traditions associated with the historical Jesus.
There's a lot here that's really good and it's getting ahead of ourselves in terms of what I wanted to get into, but I want to give a shout out real quick to Stephen Bragg.
Thank you for becoming a member, Stephen. Good to have you part of the family. And we also had a member join us from the start, race car, test pilot.
Really appreciate you joining us here at MythVision. So John the Baptist, how did John's beliefs come about?
I watch on you anyway. Sorry, you're shouting out to your subscribers in there. I like that.
Yeah, you got a multitask. You know, my wife's been trying to teach me. She's like, you need to get better.
No, you're fine. How did John's beliefs come about? How concerned with the peasantry and its struggle against class oppressions was his movement? Do we have any evidence?
We have, I mean, I think the sheer idea of his popularity, sorry, I've got to rub off them, but I don't know what's he going to do.
The popularity of the movement is crucial and you get this with certain figures that Jill Seifers describes who are popular and the big emphasis is on the numbers.
So the sheer numbers will imply that these people have a following that's not simply elite to a pissed off or whatever the world.
It's got a wider base among the agrarian society to have that. And we do similar things with bandits, similar things with other prophets, things like that.
So at least according to Mark talks about, you know, the whole countryside or I mean, it's exaggerated of course, but they all come out to see him.
But this is where Jill Seifers is important because he's clearly put to death because he's got a popular movement and that could be perceived to be a threat.
So I think we're on some pretty firmish ground there that John had a popular movement and popular support and the fact that the movement continues may also be an indication of that.
And it's most likely not of elites. I would suspect this is probably the reason.
I mean, this is this is where it's interesting in terms of the Gospel say Mark talking about John the Baptist's death and by Herod Antipas.
And it raises this whole question of John apparently had been critiquing the elite for their loose morals, marital morals and so on.
And I think it shows again how I think it adds one of these complications to kind of the modern political lens and how it doesn't quite translate to the first century because John could be incredibly popular among the peasants by appealing to what we would consider to be kind of morally conservative ideas about marital relationships and so on,
and then pointing out the hypocrisy of someone like Herod Antipas, right, and saying, oh, he's not he's not living up to the to the ideals that are grounded in our traditions and so on and so forth.
And so we get this interesting blending of what we would consider a kind of moral conservatism or traditionalism with popular revolt and actually class based antagonism.
Thank you for that.
And I think that's something that we then continue to see in weird and unexpected and complicated ways with the Jesus movement as well.
Well, that was my follow up question is, is what is the relationship between Jesus and John?
I mean, I've had scholars come on and some of them aren't even New Testament scholars, but they're popular figures who I wanted to get their thoughts about Jesus, if they thought even existed, all of these kind of things.
And they, some people will say, these are two different groups that coalesce through by the time the Gospels come on, they want to collab, you know, we need to put our efforts together.
And then there's others who think, no, no, no, Jesus was like a subordinate in the movement of John.
John, he's gone.
Jesus takes over this kind of thing.
So what has your research in this, in this approach, the relationship between John and Jesus, what do you see it as?
I think the first, yeah, I'm going to cut you off now, James.
I think I think the first thing to say here is that, and I think this will come up later on as well that we don't necessarily see these movements as like tightly bounded entities, right?
So there could have been a lot of overlap because this is how social movements are.
You know, there could have been people sympathizers to both movements.
There could have even been central figures who were central to both movements.
That doesn't mean that they were the same movements.
That doesn't mean that it just means that there may have been some overlap.
And we think that's probably the most likely situation.
It seems that the Gospels are pretty clear that on two things.
Firstly, that John the Baptist, there was some kind of overlap between the Baptist movement and the Jesus movement.
And secondly, it seems that the Gospels are concerned that John the Baptist's movement may have been more popular and they need to somehow show that the Jesus movement or Jesus was superior to John.
So the Gospels have this idea of John pointing the way to Jesus, not necessarily pointing the way to the Kingdom of God or some other event or divine figure.
It is Jesus that the authors of the Gospels bring in as the kind of the successor to and more prominent figure.
But that suggests that the Baptist movement may have been at the time more popular or influential or what have you and that the Jesus movement needed to create some kind of differentiation from it as it was expanding and growing and trying to clamor for its own credibility.
It also might say, if Jesus is seeing what just happened to John, what might happen to him?
And so he might be anticipating this.
And in the millenarian movement, is there the notion, is there some teaching that we have evidence of where they think that going to their deaths would bring about God's coming?
Yeah, I mean, there's a pretty strong tradition.
Well, I mean, how it was framed and what it would bring about might be debated.
But certainly from, let's say about 160 plus years before the birth of Jesus, you've got the Maccabean martyrs who would die for the law for traditions or whatever, commemorated annually at Hanukkah.
And you've got a very strong, well known, well respected martyrdom tradition there.
So you can frame, if you think your death is up and coming, is it going to be a waste of time, your death, or do you want to make sure it's meaningful?
And well, what we do know about such people's figures is that they have the unusual for them to attribute meaning to their deaths.
And there's the obvious language to use in this context.
And there's broader ideas across the record Roman world about dying for cities, dying for people and things like this.
But there's certainly a Jewish tradition of dying for the law, dying for this, and to assuage God's wrath or whatever, and help bring about the transformation.
Your death to have some value in bringing about the eschatological transformation.
Thank you.
It's certainly there.
Yeah, it gets a bit tricky to talk about this as well, because martyrdom is, you know, and calling it a martyr comes from the Christian tradition.
Right.
But it doesn't mean that similar kinds of ideas or movements, behaviors didn't exist before them.
In fact, we see them as James has just pointed out.
So, you know, we've got to get past this idea that like Jesus was the first martyr and that he, you know, invented martyrdom that later Christian martyrs were influenced by, of course, that that happened.
But that was just giving a name to something that that already kind of existed within various traditions that they could have pulled on and interpreted their ideas.
Yeah, I'm reminded of Canada Moss's work on the whole myth of persecution.
And of course, she goes from Jewish and Greek sources to point out some of that interesting material.
Getting into the next chapter, becoming a religious organizer, I'd like to ask you another question pertaining to Levi, the tax collector.
What was this role of Levi tax collector in the Jesus movement?
What's what's this all about?
Do you do you have a certain position you take on this?
Yes.
I know I'm leading up to get you to tell.
Yeah, so, you know, you can tell us.
Yeah, he was a good, he was a good dude, wasn't he?
He was all right.
I mean, Robert can talk about fishing and things like this, but others have made the point that tax collecting and fishing are two significant occupations that turn up in the gospel tradition.
Now, having a tax collector there might seem an odd one, but we think there's a very good reason for this.
Now, whether we can debate all day about whether there was a historical Levi or whatever.
But what is clear, I think, is, is that the Jesus movement was concerned with people tax collectors.
And the other this, I think, technical term that gets associated with tax collectors is sinner or sinners.
And what a lot of earlier scholarship is, for some reason, I've got an explanation for that.
But for another time has overlooked is the social economic import of that term, sinner and sinners.
And if you look at the word in Greek, Hebrew, Aramaic, Syriac from, let's say, Psalms, in fact, the Hebrew Bible entirely through to the rabbinic literature end of rabbinic literature.
So we're talking pretty much a thousand years here. Consistently, this term is used to describe what perceived to be exploitative rich people, people who may not observe the law as they should, people who might act in various ways are given right to Caesar's immoral.
But constantly, they're almost comically rich. It's almost beyond the pale of repentance.
Or, you know, these people, you know what you're going to get with them.
I mean, one writer talks about, you know, who pities the snake channel when when the channel gets bitten by a snake.
So, you know, don't expect to come out smelling of roses if you hang around with sinners.
So it's this clearly in the gospel tradition, this mission to sinners.
And we phrase this in terms of mission to the rich rather than a mission to the poor, it's a mission to the rich.
And it's to get the rich to repent and give up their wealth before before it's too late.
And there may be good reasons for this. I mean, how do you fund a movement?
Well, it's there's some strikingly interesting connections with people of wealth and means and so on, which help fund the movement in some ways.
And I think also provides some crucial networks for the spread of the movement along with fishing and the both interconnected anyway, I think.
So that's why I think you do get figures like Levi associated with the movement.
Well, I can't prove who was active where but I think the idea that there were tax collectors and people of wealth associated with the movement is very important.
I think when you look at parables like Richmond and Lazarus in in Luke, or if you look at the story of the rich man in Mark 10 and the whole story, the eye of the needle and all that kind of thing.
You can see a pattern emerging where whatever the however we categorize these people with the poor, whoever they meant to be, are simply saved because they are.
And it's the rich people who are the ones who have to give up the wealth to be saved in some ways.
They're bound to sin. I think there's a there is a tradition in early Judaism that the the if you're rich, you're bound to sin.
There's another tradition that if you're rich, that's a sign you're saved.
And they're often in competition within Judaism, these two traditions.
And I think the Jesus movement represents the idea that the if you're wealthy, you're going to sin.
And this is if you look back to what we're talking about what's happening in Galilee, when there's these social upheavals, you can see how this message can take on a certain meaning in that kind of context.
So I think we think there was this mission to the rich probably we suspect not entirely successful. Will you give up your well.
So.
But we do get stuff as a second so we get so he doesn't give up all his wealth. And I think I could imagine I could.
My best explanation for that is that this is a story created to explain why people weren't giving up the wealth.
But anyway, but that's why I think stories of tax collectors are associated with this movement.
Before we get your comment on the fishing side of things here Dr. Miles, I've read Christ associations by John Kloppenborg and he is doing kind of this materialist thing but heuristically to try and show other movements the best we can and how they have factions of kind of like what we have with certain
groups you know if you're if you're my brother right he's an actual a welder like he's a professional welder there is a crew and a group of welders that hang out and they have their own little enclaves and whatnot.
So in this time you would have seen the same thing with people who may have been associated with certain types of careers or whatever.
And if you take this whole john Dominic Ross and I think with Kloppenborg kind of made me think of this and I heard it said by one of them was that you have these tax collectors who are sitting on the lake of Tiberius which was the sea of Galilee at one or the lake of Galilee really poor free criticized them for saying that this was a
sea it was not a sea but that's a whole another thing but I found it interesting that the tax collectors would have been waiting for the fishermen to come and tax them so there's like this possibility of overlap between both careers is you have people possibly
taxing these people who are coming from the lake.
Hey how many fish did you get today.
And the Gospels associate them together so with by you know having the call to discipleship narratives Jesus approaches the fishermen brothers asked them to leave their nets and follow him and they do.
And then and then you have the call of of Levi or Matthew, and it's modeled on that same paradigm of come follow me and they do and you know and it he's within that proximity of the lake shore, presumably to tax the fisherman.
I'll add just to the thing about about Levi and why I think you know your tax collectors are so important is exactly this it's this networking, they would be the most useful figures as kind of mediators between.
They would have had these connections with say the fishermen on the lake who they were taxing or others, but also they would have had networks into some of these wealthy elite centers in the urban environments who were presumably responsible or benefiting from these urbanization projects.
So you know this is why I think you have these, these stories about Jesus dining with tax collectors and sinners, like the Gospels actually put these two things together, and sinners here does not mean, you know, downtrodden outcasts or whatever.
And it's scandalous precisely because these are these are the, you know, the people responsible for or seen as regarded as popularly responsible for the problems in that are happening in the antagonisms that are happening within within Galilee.
And if they are marginal, the one, the way we talk about 1% today.
In some sense, you know, they're very marginal because they're better off than everyone else. And just kind of, if you just have one point to this is this is how ideas tend to spread as well whether religious ideas or political ideas through through social networks through workplace family connections things like this rather than convincing ideas or anything like that.
And we do talk about this a little later on as the is the message spreads. It requires and you mentioned rightly there.
It was clapping bogs work on Christ associations. What you can do with that kind of stuff is you've got these associations. You've got these trade network trade groups, whatever you people who one day they'll be active in a synagogue.
Another day they'll be active in the trade group. And you've got, they've got multiple membership of different kind of groups and already made networks from message to spread and things like this.
So these are, I think these networks are absolutely crucial for understanding why this movement emerged.
And it comes back to like the Feld Revolution is what I put on the thumbnail, but it keeps making me think that here are these workers in these associations that are going back and they're they're biting their tongue till they go back to each other and go, we got to do something about this or something has to be done about this.
God has got to step in and do something. And we see that all that cry all throughout the book of Revelation, like how long, oh Lord, Elaine Pagels told me in person.
When you know that this person she imagines walking through the streets of Ephesus, which Patmos would not have been too far and would have seen the statues of the figurines of the women representing the nations, including the Jews with Rome putting a knife to her throw as a rape act.
As if we have dominated and conquered these 30 nations. Like, do you think that that these people weren't going? How long, oh God, like you have to come in and destroy these wicked people.
And I imagine if there's something like that going on, Allison was critical of crossing in his quest for the historical Jesus course that I showed you before we went live.
He was critical of him saying, well, he thinks crossing might be using too much of what happened in Ireland with the Irish on the picture of Jesus.
But based on our conversation, I'm not going to say they're identical, but maybe you would agree more with what Crossens actually trying to suggest that there's a social political kind of revolution amongst these lower class people against what's happening to them.
Not saying it's identical in any way, but like, there may be overlap.
I think an unholy alliance of crossing and Allison and you're getting closer to the truth.
Right, we're trying, we're trying.
I think you've got Allison on the apocalypticism has got plenty of interesting stuff. You've got crossing on the social context, got plenty of interesting stuff.
We can critique the details on both sides, but I think if you can bring them two together, the knife of them may like that.
But I think if you do bring them two together, you can do some interesting stuff.
You guys will be together, right?
Like, I think, I think just on that point, and, you know, I'm, I'm responding to what you said, Dale Allison said, not what Dale Allison said.
So I'm not quite sure where he'd come out with us.
But I do think like there's incredible value in looking at a period of history or a particular historical problem through a lens through a heuristic lens.
I see no problem with that if we are upfront about what we're doing.
And, you know, I think that this allows us to shed light on certain aspects of a historical situation that the people even in that time may have not been fully conscious of.
And I think this is especially the case in a kind of historical materialist perspective where, you know, we're reading from an entirely different socio-economic system and world and worldview with our own questions.
And we want to be upfront about that.
What we're not doing is saying that the early Jesus movement were, you know, like social justice warriors or kind of class warriors or like proto Shagavara figures or something like that.
That's actually, you know, we often, I think this is the biggest misconception that often comes up when you start talking about this historical materialist approach.
But rather in defense of it, what we are doing is simply saying, here's our heuristic.
And, or here is the set of questions that we think are important to trying to get to the, you know, the grit of what was going on.
And it allows us to take the data and to emphasize certain aspects and to draw certain connections that other people have not been able to manage to do.
So, you know, of course, we're reading through kind of our own lenses.
I don't think that's necessarily a terrible thing, as long as we're, you know, we're not allowing it to kind of dominate the data, as it were.
Just to give a point on what Allison did say, he said, and you can purchase the course and go check out the quest for the historical Jesus.
It's an amazing course.
But in that course, when he gets to Sanders and then Crossen, because he's showing how they play a role in the historical Jesus quest, he says that I think he sides with Sanders on this, whereas Sanders seems to see there's less Roman role in the Galilee that they have to get called in
like they had no clue this uprising.
Finally, they get word, oh my gosh, there's this uprising with this guy, Judas the Galilean, like almost like they don't really even deal with the social life and really are that actively involved.
Whereas Crossen, I think he responded to a video I told him about this after we recorded and he's like, no.
And he's like, are you kidding me?
They're on the lakefront.
Tiberius is on the lakefront now, like he is in there.
So you could tell they've got some deep discussion that they're interested in probably wanting to have at some point on that matter.
We've got we've got a great quote in chapter two.
I can't remember exactly what it is from Sanders, where he talks about the, the building projects in this kind of romanticized way where he says all Jews were pretty happy with what was going on everybody was peaceful, you know, like they weren't
really disturbed by these things. And it's, it's exactly one of this, like he makes this generalization on the, on the basis of a lack of evidence.
You know, so he's making a kind of overall generalization about the entirety of the Galilean population supposedly being happy with something.
They're all Josephus.
I'm just kidding.
Right.
We look at any, we look at any context, any period through history, and every society is going to be divided by class in some way.
There's going to be people who are happy with the situation and people who aren't.
So to suddenly say all Jews and Jesus's time were, you know, more or less undisturbed by what was going on.
I think that just doesn't ring true at a kind of just common sense level.
And that's why apocalypses and millenialism is important because it's not necessarily saying we're going to overthrow the world without, you know, weapons or whatever that might involve that.
But, but there'll be supernatural intervention that will just that will change things.
I mean, how do you measure that in history?
Clearly, there's discontent in that world.
If you want the rulers overthrown and replaced by something new, that is some level discontent with the way the world is.
So it's not necessarily happy with the way the world is at all.
So this is where I think Sanders, I don't quite understand how Sanders can come to that conclusion when at the same time he does have Jesus as his apocalyptic figure.
And I think the, I think Crossan on the one hand and Sanders struck Alison on the both right in a way.
I mean, Sanders is talking on a technical issue about is there, you know, Roman garrison based in Galilee and all this kind of thing.
Okay.
But to say that Herod Antipas didn't have wasn't into some degree answerable to Rome is also, I mean, you can't say that either when he named his city after the emperor.
Yeah.
So both the right in a way.
And there's not the direct presence you would get in Judah for Judea, for instance, or wherever, but there's an indirect thing with Herod Antipas knows ultimately who's in charge.
And it's not him.
I was there. So what's cool about this conversation and I don't want to sidetrack is like, I was there at Caesarea Maritime and Caesarea Philippi.
I saw where they were the foundation stones are where they built a temple to Augustus or Herod built a temple to Augustus right there where the temple of Pan was for the portal to the underworld.
It was really cool to be in the spot and the gospel says Jesus was here and he says, who do men say that I am.
I mean, and when you're there and you think about all the sons of gods that are in line right there, here's Jesus stepping up to the plate.
It's kind of like, what?
Anyway, it might be fictional by the authors, you know, own like imagination to try and paint Jesus as his figure or maybe maybe this guy thought he was more than what he is.
But this brings me to the next thing you brought up millenarianism and that's the next chapter again, another shameless plug.
If you haven't got the book, get the book now or else you will have a failed revolution and we don't want that to happen to you.
Okay, we just we want to see you succeed revolutionary millenarianism.
And so my question and I had to I'm going to make it really simple.
What was the new golden age after the new theocracy had been installed to look like.
So we talk about how God's supposed to come in in some versions of this.
You all obviously we had what seemed to be millenarian Jews who were actively putting a sword in their hand and going to bat for God.
Others who thought God would come in either way you shake it because cross and said they would have just crucified 12 people rather than or 13 people rather than just one if this whole movement was violent at the stage.
This is his comment.
But let's just say that it is the case that this movement isn't violent yet.
They're still projecting that they will be fighting at some point it seems at least revelation does the saints that the 144th out like they're going to fight with God and his people against the enemy and draw some blood.
What are your thoughts about all this am I wrong.
Am I right.
Is there something you'd want to nitpick about this and what are their views of that golden age.
Well I'll take the golden age and I'll let Robert deal with violence.
Yeah right.
That sounds good.
I'm ready.
Right.
I'll be using a bit of violence if you don't.
I'm sending that to your boss.
The golden age would be would involve something like that.
I mean there would be and we get this idea of role reversal pretty clearly there in the gospel tradition and the role versus rich and poor person last and so on and so forth.
There would be the idea of a just king and you get this is again it's quite common enough cross cultural phenomenon.
Perhaps this would have been a figure like Jesus it would have involved.
I think there's an early tradition you can argue for the disciples playing a prominent role in the inner circle of them and the 12 judging the 12 tribes and things like this.
This isn't an egalitarian model as such.
It's going to be one where justice will reign.
People will be treated properly peasants will be given the food they need and all this kind of stuff and I think if you do that with the cross cultural thing.
We can make some general comments like that illness will be eliminated or whatever you will ever.
There will be a life of plenty plenty of food and I remember a debate between two prominent scholars years ago when someone said oh you can't they can't possibly mean they'll be like 20,000.
I don't know whatever trees bearing grapes or something and then the other one just turned around said couldn't they.
And he went.
But it would be this but the basic point is that this idea of we can get some various Jewish text that the there will be an ideal world ideal King justice dispensed food for all ailments taken care of wonderful life that kind of the way the world should be.
Things like that so that's the kind of idea I think what we need to get away from is the very common view and I think this is either implicit or explicit in a lot of scholarship that this would be a nice world of equal people where everyone was equal and everyone would hold hands and.
It's still a hierarchy and I think that's reflective of a peasant context where you do think in hierarchical terms about even within the peasantry and things like this.
Even with statements like the last shall be first is going to say that the first are actually going to be kicked to the back.
So you're reversing roles.
Yeah.
What do you think the kingdom of God is I mean it was one translation is Empire of God and perfectly reasonable translation dictatorship of God dictatorship on the behalf of the peasantry.
It's going to replace Rome it's going to be it's going to be a new and from the background in the book of Daniel onwards the way this is interpreted.
This would replace the great ruling power of the time with a new empire and new kingdom and new dictatorship or whatever.
It's not that we I think we have to get rid of this idea that it was all sweetness egalitarianism of sexuality gender blah blah blah.
Obviously that'd be a wonderful thing in reality but not in that kind of context.
That's just not really a significant option in a peasant context.
I don't think now there's plenty of other debates around the Roman world where perhaps you can get egalitarianism there'll be some more debates on that in the future but I think not in first century.
Now to the bloodshed nothing.
Oh and real quick Pat thank you so much for that super chat I really appreciate it I.
I want to just shout out to anybody who helps support us feel free to send your questions but we don't have too much more time I don't want to leave.
Look the reason why isn't because Dr. Miles Dr. Crossley it's like early morning for you and I don't want to like have you hate me for the rest of your life so.
You're not sleeping tonight are you James.
Not now I've just seen someone talk about Jimmy superfly snooker so I mean.
I'm a wrestling fan how can I.
Yeah right.
So what about the violent side of this.
I'm.
You know just as you were saying talking before I was a quote this quote from I'm going to not get it quite right but from Vladimir Lenin.
Came to my mind it goes something like you know the transformation from the bourgeois from the bourgeois state to the proletarian state.
Cannot happen without violent revolution and the point that he's trying to make there is that do you do you really think that the people who are in charge are going to let you just come and take their power from them.
You know if you if you are actually truly going to threaten.
The power that they hold in a real tangible way so not just in a kind of gestural playful way or whatever which you know and there's always been room for kind of court gesture gestures or whatever.
If you're actually going to go in and seize power and there's going to be a transfer of power from from one political entity to another.
Expect violence.
It doesn't sort of matter what where the violence comes from to start with in the case of the Jesus movement maybe it maybe it started with you know some of some antagonists like some members like Simon the zealot or something who knows.
Or if it started with the elites crucifying Jesus or wherever it was but violence is going to enter the situation at some point along the road.
I think we're quite careful to say that.
That we don't think that the Jesus movement the early Jesus movement were kind of non violent in this principled way.
We think that they they had more of a and precisely because we just think that that would be kind of anachronistic and you know it's well meaning and it sounds good but.
The members of the early Jesus movement were armed as we're told in the Gospels and they likely expected violence and the any appeals to non violence tended to be kind of for pragmatic reasons.
So you don't want to go around needlessly provoking elites when especially when you're trying to win some of them maybe to your side to support the movement.
But also you know violence as you say could wait for the appropriate moment when divine forces would intervene.
And you know the bloodshed was going to come sooner or later it just now wasn't the quite the right moment it was impractical or not a pragmatic reason for for bringing in violence into the situation in a kind of organized way at that at that point in time.
Eventually no matter what there was going to be violence like you're saying either way I mean and even there's the at least the expectation that in the end again reverse in the roles that dr.
Crossley was saying you have these special Israelites that are that are virgins and they're at the top and then you know the 12,000 they're saying which it is interesting how Jehovah's Witnesses have taken that and like ran with that to make it like we're we're part.
We are the hierarchy and you know if you're not in and you're behind us so I think that fits what you were both describing I'd like to press on here so we don't keep you too too too long and you hate me family troubles chapter six shameless plug get the book.
In this chapter.
Oh I just want to ask what the gender and gendered hierarchies and ancient Judea and Galilee look like what were the disparities and expectations.
I mean, I'll join me and start with the basic stuff about households and then you can move on to the wider. Yeah, ideology and so on.
The expectations would involve things like the eldest son being head of a household, for instance, you're expected to take on the role that kind of role that's the kind of masculine role that's expected now.
Imagine that in a context where there's been we know there's been upheavals of households in Galilee as Jesus growing up so there's people not taking on expected roles for instance, including Jesus for whatever reason, maybe he's seen what's going on around and maybe he's forced into whatever.
The so already that's an expected role and if you're not head of a household you there potentially for ridicule.
What we argue is that that does happen in line with what some scholars argue but we also think that Jesus takes reply fights masculinity with masculinity if you like so he would see the movement would see their role as itinerant figures out in the desert as a hardened thing.
We've got this discussion of how Jesus frames John the Baptist in relation to Herod Antipas, not in the soft clothing.
That's probably pretending that people in soft clothing are somehow unmasculine or like the hard and masculine figures like us in who can go out in the wilderness and do our thing.
So there's a competition over who's the masculine one here and things like this and that's tied in I think with the upheavals and so on and so forth in Galilee with households.
So some very important stuff there and this is why you get I think this idea of the Jesus movement being an alternative household.
You know you get this idea that when his family complain about him in Mark three when he says no these are my brothers and sisters and so on.
There's been some really good stuff done on this before where the argument is that the Jesus found the alternative family is somehow a kind of queer alternative family that's playing around with gender roles.
What we were arguing is that actually the Jesus movement is pushing among mask their own version of masculinity and this some people argue that this alternative movement doesn't have a father figure, which would be quite shocking.
So if you're arguing, it has a very big father figure.
You know, so we've got a bigger father figure than your father figure kind of thing so that it's a competition over masculinity and I think this is this avoid some of the anachronism.
When people talk about gender in the ancient world.
Robert knows a bit more about this.
I was going to ask Robert and like, of course give your your spill on this but I did want to mention.
Look, I see this thing and I see Jesus talk about you must hate your mother father sister brother like this us versus them mentality and I see this almost on a Jim Jones level.
I can't say that it's exactly but it's like it does not seem and that might be my modern perception here, but it seems like this is splitting up family ties if you don't line up with what we're doing.
Say bye to your mother father like you need to love us and what we're trying to do more than your own blood and that's very cultic in modern standards what we would say.
I'll qualify that a little bit because okay the parallel talks about love less and I think this is actually reflects an Aramaic word which is not as strong as the English hate.
Okay.
And I think it's a reflection of it's a it's a known Jewish tradition that you prioritize one thing of a family.
So it's actually to say how important the thing you're doing is rather than a rejection of family as such.
So I don't think it quite goes down the Jim Jones route on this.
I think it's more in a tradition of this stuff is even more important than family.
Okay.
So he relativizes family rather than gets rid of it or anything like that, but that's not tradition, I think.
If we took that to the next level though and the family said, I'm not on board with what you're doing or I don't then you're stuck having to pick this over your family.
Right.
I think that does happen.
I think that's the sort of social reality that that there is a splitting family.
So they've got to think of ways of conceptualizing this problem.
These splits these divisions and so on.
So yeah, I think you're right there.
Sorry about that anyway.
No, what you said is a is a is a common argument.
I think I'm just pushing back against a common argument there.
I love the pushback.
All right, Miles, bring the knuckles.
Yeah, I think just on that the the question of, you know, why are the households breaking apart is an important one that can be explored through that historical materialist lens as well.
So the texts certainly, you know, the gospel certainly make out as if, for the most part, this is the division between families is is kind of voluntary and chosen.
And I think that's precisely because they're being written at a later point in time where this has become a thing that you do, you know, you renounce family and you follow Jesus and this is the kind of devotion that it that it takes.
Now, those sorts of ideas may have been happening at the time of the early Jesus movement.
But I think also, you know, we've got this evidence of from elsewhere of displacements upheavals, presumably families being broken up or heads of households being, you know, dethroned from their position of heads of households because they can no longer eke out and
income and provide for their families and so on and so forth.
So that whole material upheaval and so on seems to be part of this picture, I think, even if it gets to a point where the anti family stuff is then sort of romanticized or adopted in this strictly more voluntary sense.
Later on, and perhaps it was, it was done in that way we suggest in the book, as a kind of defense mechanism.
So they were being ridiculed for being effeminate or or unmanly because these people weren't living according to the kind of the gendered expectations of their time and place, where the heads of households provided for families and so on and so forth.
So it seems like the early Jesus movement may have started to adopt it and said, well, yes, actually, we're Unix for the Kingdom of Heaven, you know, and even that phrase about Unix talks about Unix, who have been made who were born Unix and then others who choose to be Unix, but also it talks about those who are made Unix, right.
So there's a few different options kind of blending in there and of course Unix as well as well, often had privileged positions within the Royal Court.
So these Unix were going to be, you know, sharing in this, this power of this new kingdom when it, when it, when it came in.
But just to back up a moment and talk about the wider gendered context.
Gender and masculinity was massively important in antiquity, both within a Jewish context but also within the wider Roman world.
And I think this is where we start to see some of this interaction on that level of ideology playing out because gender wasn't something that just happened.
And so we're in a kind of contained way.
But, but gender cut across the protocols and masculinity cut across the protocols of power, class, economy, as we've sort of already been discussing about heads of household and so on like these gendered roles had actual economic and social understandings
of those societies, right up all the way up to the top, where the Roman Emperor Caesar would be understood as the most manly of men, the head of the household of Rome, the ultimate kind of father figure.
And also the Roman Empire itself could be envisaged so nations could be envisaged along these gender dynamics with with Rome as this conquering masculine entity going out and bringing others into the fold of this dominant masculine power,
by subjugating it and humiliating its defeated enemies, and even like you know the coding the gendered coding of crucifixion does this as well.
It's that was going to be a question. Yeah, it's primarily a violent method of execution that displays the victim, you know, naked and penetrated and exposed and humiliated.
It's a ritual humiliation and that's exactly the the intent to inscribe Roman patriarchal and masculine power onto onto the defeated and masculine emasculated body of of a foreign subject.
So I want to press on that because there's something really good here and I'm going to have to skip a bunch of questions just we have time to take others questions before we let you both go but you mentioned crucifixion and gendered roles.
Rome is the unpenetrable. I mean obviously crucified victims are or maybe they're not victims maybe they are violent criminals or whatever it might be depending on whose perception you're looking through right.
But Jesus is being crucified and I've had scholars come on who want to say cognitive dissonance in totality explains the earliest movement in terms of he gets killed they didn't expect it holy mackerel boom.
How do we understand this and trying to make sense of this stuff, maybe post traumatic stress or some type of trauma they didn't sleep well they probably didn't eat well boom they're having visions.
Jesus is still alive to them and now they're oh he's still alive and and here's the start of the movement. You've mentioned in this episode so far that you think maybe he goes knowing he's going to die.
Maybe the earliest movement thought that maybe they knew he was going to die. Would that still I mean would there still be the shock factor of oh my gosh our man was completely humiliated with the gender roles in mind.
How do you understand this like where do you. I mean can you imagine your person being that humiliated and with the mindset that they're carrying. I don't know.
Well, I think this is where you get an interesting crossover in terms of those gender dynamics and how they could be understood in a in that kind of martyrdom context.
So, the Jesus movement we suggest began to develop certain ideas about about death because death, you know, as we saw with john the Baptist was a real possibility for these sorts of seditious movements that were popular.
So the idea that it was completely unexpected just doesn't make sense, even if it wasn't expected that it's still a possibility. It's still on the horizon. You know, it's not as the people didn't regularly get crucified.
You know, and particularly popular figures like Jesus or john the Baptist or others.
They, we suggest that the early Jesus movement quite likely adopted these ideas or developed a theology of martyrdom, which was also understood in this gendered way of taking the punishment like a man.
So you're kind of showing your your your masculinity and your bravado by displaying, you know, your threshold for pain and and going into it in this kind of morally virtuous way.
So you so that, you know, as with with gender in any context in society, it can be messed with it can be reconfigured or redefined in certain ways that are useful for whoever's doing that kind of redefinition.
And we think that the early Jesus movement quite likely developed these ideas of well actually we can, we can turn a humiliating death into a great thing.
I think you get in competition, don't you? You will be straight away. It's an emasculating thing. One response is no, it's not it's hyper masculine and so on and so forth.
So all sorts of ideas that for one person could be seen as the mass emasculating can be seen as a masculine idea.
So, I mean, it could be even things like, I mean, I'm going a little off here.
You think stuff about celibacy, for instance, I mean, one sense, why haven't you got a family? Why haven't you got this?
You're not acting like a man should. On the other hand, the celibate figure will say, well, I'm I used to see heroic strength.
I'm showing that you mentioned the virgins before. I mean, this is the reason why you call them virgins.
I think some of the virgins have turned up in the comments.
What's the reason, Jack?
You know what I mean? So there's all these competing ideas about masculinity going on and the people and they could exist simultaneously, I think is one of the key things.
You know, the perception can be could be there straight away. The crucifixion almost immediately would have been interpreted in different ways for different people.
There's so much. OK, so here a couple more and then I'm going to take the super chats from anybody who has questions.
Judas, betraying Jesus. Question. Do you think that Judas betrayal of Jesus is hysterical, hysterical, hysterical.
And what were his motives? I'm going to tell you my honest thoughts. I think this is fiction.
But, you know, I think that Paul's thinking of God as the one who's turning over Jesus, even though I could see why someone can narrate it.
I don't know, though. I'm just throwing out there like my personal thoughts.
Do you think it's historical?
I don't know. I think it's difficult to establish one way or another. I wouldn't be confident on either way.
I think there's I think it's an early tradition without a doubt.
There's submitting elements to it in terms of the name is scary.
Probably the man of Karioth and the argument has been made that Karioth is to the south and outside of Galilee.
So we've got an outsider, blah, blah, blah.
It's possible, but it can also equally be possible that they make this up as a story to explain why it happened or whatever.
So I mean, with a lot of this stuff, we don't go into precise details about proving these things because I think ultimately on all of it,
it's very difficult to prove whether this happened or didn't happen in many, many cases.
I'm confident in certain cases that stuff is later and reflects later ideas.
I prefer, we prefer to talk about early tradition rather than Jesus did or didn't do this or Judas did or didn't exist.
So were these ideas lightly around in Galilee, in Judea, around this time or were they reflective of later ideas?
That's the way we would work on this rather than we can prove Jesus did say this or didn't do that.
And because I think that's all you can do with a lot of this stuff because it's very, I mean, we've got to remember, we've got, what have we got?
We've got Mark's Gospel.
Okay, we've got, I think Q, we think Q is material particular to Matthew and Luke.
And really, that's it.
You know, years after Jesus' death, it doesn't really matter if you want to take 10 or 50 years after Jesus' death.
This is a long time.
So I think it's very, very difficult to say anything with any certainty about what happened or what didn't happen.
What we have to do is talk about were these ideas early or were these ideas late?
Were these ideas associated with that part of the world or were they associated with another part of the world?
And I think we have to be sort of general and vague like that.
That's the best we can do.
And Judas, I think, fits into that.
So that's why I'm not, I could see foreign against on Judas, but you can't prove it either way.
Okay, okay.
Question here.
What happened at the trials for Jesus?
How historical are the accounts?
Is this one of those you're not sure either?
The trial.
Oh, I think the trial, I mean, there was presumably some sort of trial, but the trial of Jesus is, I think is deliberately presented as a mistrial of kangaroo cart as Helen Bon put it.
It's shown at night when it shouldn't be.
I think it's designed to show that this was a, if I was going to bet on it, it would be to show that an innocent man has died.
It was all completely wrong.
So I'm very skeptical about the trial of Jesus.
Thank you. Thank you.
And what happened to Jesus's body and how good is the evidence?
And I asked, we're in your chapter 10 here, of course, with this question, but I'm, I'm, I tend to go right now with Richard C. Miller.
On this particular whole missing body trope that I find, and being this is Greek, Greek writing, Jesus's body's missing.
So I'm thinking, you know, what's going on here?
Did a translation take place?
A translation fable?
I imagine probably.
But do you take a stand on the missing body or the burial of Jesus?
I'll handle it with a rubber on this one.
He likes his burial.
All the dead bodies and beating up on people.
I think, I think similar to what James was saying before, it's, it's hard to come down one way or the other on, on, on the traditions of the body and the tomb.
The earliest, you know, the earliest traditions that we have on this and letters of Paul, if we're going to date the Paul before, before the Gospels, don't mention a tomb, right?
So if we're going with standard dating of the Gospels, the whole idea of Joseph of Arimathea, providing this elaborate rock cut tomb and so on, comes rather late.
And then also when you, when you compare the different Gospel accounts, if you put them in the, the, the order in which the Gospels were likely written, you see this elaboration right through to an embellishment right through to John's one where, you know,
Jesus is given the greatest tomb ever kind of thing, like it's, it's a really fancy term.
And this is a way of, I think, the, the author honoring Jesus also in death, which would have been the, the idea behind providing this to.
Honestly, I think similarly to what James was saying one way or the other, it's actually difficult to come down on a firm.
You know, I think one thing that I would add to what James was saying was that we're, we're not, or at least for me personally, I'm not so much interested in the kind of apologetics approach to historical Jesus research.
We're much more interested in, you know, what's, what's plausible, what's early, what's likely, what makes sense within that historical context and that material setting.
I think that the, I think that the empty tomb narrative does make sense, be precisely because within a material class setting precisely because poor people like Jesus weren't put in a tomb.
And, and so, well, I mean, this, this, this argument can go both ways.
You can see how it goes both ways.
Poor people weren't put in a tomb. So this is why we have the story of Joseph Aaron, a Thea, who is a wealthy man who, a powerful man who, who wants to honor Jesus and death and so on.
Maybe this was an early example of a success story of the mission to the rich.
But it's just difficult to know either way.
Thank you for that. I appreciate that. Okay, I'm going to stop with my questions. I mean, I really wanted to ask, like, as a summation of what you did.
But I don't know how much time do you have, Dr. Crossley?
All the time in the world.
Oh, that's until the glorious revolution.
Well, that's not going to happen probably so I'm just kidding.
So let me ask my final question and get your questions in before the thousand years is up because it's been almost a thousand years.
What happened to the Jesus movement? I mean, we called I put on the thumbnail, some guy just some random guy would like looking like he's dressing like he's some like, I don't know,
I don't know, that was my imagination when I created the thumbnail. And this is a failed revolution.
But Christianity didn't stop of anything it has flourished and continue to grow.
And I'm not saying it isn't on a decline today with more enlightened thinking and being critical of things in my opinion.
But something happened to it. I mean, it was this kind of idea that we're painting about Jesus and what we've been talking about the earliest Jesus movement.
There's no way I can imagine that surviving. What happened to it?
Dr. Crossley said it relocated from Galilee to Jerusalem, then from Jerusalem out into the known world.
If it would have stayed in Galilee, it would have gone extinct. If it would have stayed in Jerusalem, it would have gone extinct.
He said if it didn't relocate, it wouldn't have flourished.
Maybe you have some other things you'd like to paint as to why it succeeded and it became what it did.
Well, I think generally, obviously true. But I would say there's, I'm not sure he would say there's much more to the story than that.
It clearly and quickly spread among different material interests.
So I mean, I think this is why I think this mission to the riches in porn already from the very beginnings, it's got connections with more elite circles.
Already it's got networks across the sea or Lake of Galilee, whether it's through fishing, whether it's through tax collectors.
When you've got to, if the Passover means that you've got people coming from all over the spot and anyone connected there means the message gets spread quite quickly.
Once you've got the idea of going around the Mediterranean world, you've got synagogues which include Jews and interested Gentiles as a readymade network right across there.
The idea that they saw the Jesus risen from the dead, I'm not making any claim that there was a, this was a supernatural act or anything like that, but clearly people believe they saw Jesus risen from the dead gives that immediate justification.
So you've got all those networks in place, which I think are crucial and networks, as I said before, are absolutely essential for ideas to spread.
And other factors we know that it's clear that women heading households play an important role, which is not a big surprise.
We know about elite women being interested in philosophy and things aside from the husband who could inherit a household once the husband's gone away.
These are points of connection in the city, in towns and things across the Mediterranean world.
I think though, how do we get from a movement that's clearly a Jewish movement to a movement that becomes a predominantly Gentile one is the striking question.
I think, for instance, the mission to sinners is also important here.
Not only does it give you that give access to across social economic class, the term sinners is also a term used for Gentiles.
So you've got ready made justification for interaction and spread of a message among Gentiles.
Now, if you think of, for instance, in synagogues, they'll be interested.
We know the Gentiles interested in Judaism and synagogues, they will go from synagogue, they will go to their other households with other networks straight away.
Paul, as a temp maker, will meet people there.
Trade associations and things will have their own family networks.
And we do know that these networks are crucial for Christianity to emerge.
So for instance, in 1 Corinthians 7, we know that Paul has to deal with the idea of a believing partner and an unbelieving partner.
So you've got already, there's tensions taking place among families.
Factor into this, you've got all that idea about coming kingdom and so on and so forth.
And once this movement has spread significantly and become embedded in the Roman Empire at large, you've got the idea of this new empire.
And you can talk about, I mean, in one sense, it's crazy to think Jesus, Jesus becomes the movement of empire.
Another level though, you are talking about new empires all the time in the Jesus tradition.
So it's quite, it's not a massive leap to shift from wanting this new empire of God, kingdom of God, dictatorship of God, to use the ideology to talk about the Roman Empire.
But you've got that tension, you've got that tension between rich and poor, giving up your wealth, caring for the poor and so on and so forth.
And so simultaneously, you've got the language of power, empire and so on, alongside the reaction to it.
And this is what happens obviously in medieval Europe, for instance, you've got that this is Christianity provides the language of authority, the language of Christendom, the language of power.
But it also provides the language of resistance to it in peasant uprisings or whatever.
So for instance, my favorite example is the English peasants revolt 1381.
One hand you've got the lords, the elite and someone talking about the whole ordered world of Christendom.
On the other hand, you have lower clergy saying we need to overthrow these people in the name of Jesus, the Bible and so on and so forth.
So that tension is built there from the beginning, but it's not a massive leap.
I don't think to think that this could also become the religion of empire.
So obviously geographic location as cross and said, but there's this spread amongst social groups into a new group of centers or Gentiles.
Would you say that the message also radically changed from the Jesus movements message to getting into Paul's message?
And I'd love to maybe just a brief comment on that, but also the idea that they're using the hierarchical hierarchical coal, sorry, structure of Rome, using kind of Jesus as the new Caesar.
All of these things, they're kind of co-opting the language and eventually Christians when they actually started to become popular and you have an emperor who really is the emperor of Rome.
Whoa, this was already paving the way like, duh, we are the very new kingdom that was prophesied.
And so you can see that connection and you've got to remember this is happened. Some of the developments happen rapidly because Paul in the middle of the first century is now in a situation where he has to deal with a number of non a significant number of non Jews being part of this movement.
How do you justify them? Well, Paul says it's not no longer by works of the law, it's by faith and things like this. And so, but, you know, when you get into the second century, this is, I mean, you don't want to put numbers on it just yet.
But obviously in the long run, this becomes overwhelmingly a Gentile religion, not a Jewish one. And hence you get the tension and competition with Jews and Judaism and identifying this movement and this figure over against Judaism, which wasn't there in the beginning.
So that I mean, that is, that's the real difference in some ways. There's no way the Jesus movement would have envisaged that, but that's the way it turned out.
I'd love to chime in here and just say so that this language of like, you know, the failed revolution of the early Jesus movement that that we use as a subtitle in the final chapter I think we're actually responding there I don't think we we name him.
I'm not sure if we do or not, but to a well known scholar, NT Wright or Bishop Tom Wright, who has a popular book published a couple years ago called The Day the Revolution began, and it basically says that when Jesus died on the cross it inaugurated this this revolution that is still continuing to this day and by that he
means, you know, church or something like this. And part of my background that I was talking about earlier, in terms of earlier work I've done is criticizing scholars, especially scholars like Wright, who take this loaded political language and kind of extract all the political potency out of it,
or turn it into this weird playful gestural, you know, you know, so yes there was a revolution, but it was a revolution of the heart or something like this right.
And so when we say the failed revolution what we're talking about is that what the earliest Jesus movement worth thinking and doing and organizing around, which was before Paul got involved.
You know, it was about reversing the material hierarchies in Galilean Judea, which had been upset by the by those building projects by the elites.
They thought that God was going to dramatically intervene reverse those material hierarchies and inaugurate this golden age. That didn't happen.
So the revolution that they were expecting didn't happen. What we were left with was all was all this millenarian language and apocalyptic ideas and a kind of shifting context so the inclusion of Gentiles as James is saying the, you know, a shift shifts
and power base shifts from rural Galilee into more urban environments and so on different concerns. And so the movement and its ambitions and aims changed.
But as James said it still had the that imperial language that imperial language of both critique, which could also be turned on its head to use to support Empire.
And so you know, yeah, maybe a revolution happens a few centuries later when the Roman Empire itself becomes, you know, the Empire of God as it were.
It's not the revolution that the earliest Jesus movement had in mind.
Or it's not, I mean, maybe it is, I don't know that's debatable.
But what what I think is interesting beyond that is how through, you know, the next 2000 years, the remnants of this early millenarian movement and its initial kind of social organizing around quite specific material contextual conditions within Galilean Judea.
And it's been transported and these ideas have provided impetus and justification for a whole load of other, both revolutionary and reactionary movements.
So through 2000 years of history, people appeal to the same traditions in the same language to both uphold structures of power, but also to rebel against them.
And we find that particularly interesting from a historical materialist point of view.
It's almost like what Crossan said, he's like, you get this, he looks at it from an evolutionary standpoint, and he likes to kind of use this picture as an evolutionary one, are we a sustainable species, he always says.
And he uses this model of something like you're saying that keeps repeating of what builds up and what breaks down these kind of societies.
And he thinks the message of Jesus is a good one to give to the poor to, you know, anti kind of capitalist approach.
But that's a whole nother side chat and I don't want to get lost in there.
Let's get to the super chats for you.
For the sake of Dr. Crossley, he's going to end up skull and bones sit in there for like waiting for me to finish.
Hang for she thank you so much for the super chat.
If the more legit kingdom historical Yeshua was on about is the one to come where does the one within come in.
This is actually what I was going to make the point that you just said, Robert, and that was, you know, what obviously the Jesus movement kingdom was meant to be a literal physical real kingdom.
But then we get this Luke idea. It sounds like it's in you.
But you, you know, the kingdom is in you and stuff that redefinition or renegotiation of the term.
Where does that come from?
Well, I think there's a long tradition of both ideas held in tension or maybe not tension.
Just take the book of Daniel, for instance, you can talk about the kingdom that's to come and the kingdom that's present where God rules in here and now, but God will intervene in the future to make everything wonderful or whatever.
And to set up a new kingdom and everlasting kingdom and through the agent or whatever something like that.
So those two ideas can be held in tension anywhere there's not or as these is not perceived to be a problem.
There is an argument I have some sympathy with.
But it's not perfect argument that Luke is now trying to dampen the expectation of the future and push more for this idea.
And this saying you talk about within you would be an example of Luke pushing that idea more than the imminence of a kingdom or whatever.
There is, if in Luke 21 you get, I think a bit of this as well, a little bit more of the dampening of the Hardex eschatological expectation you get in Mark 13 and in Matthew 24.
I don't think it's a perfect argument because I've still not 100% convinced Luke is completely hostile to imminent eschatology.
But I think there are hints of it in Luke and that would be the best explanation for it because we do know that the movement has problems with these expectations.
I think in 2 Peter chapter two or the end of John's gospel clearly has the idea that this worry about the second coming not happening and things like this.
Yeah, but I think we even see like right through the New Testament this this adjusting of the imminent apocalyptic expectations you know the blueprint it wasn't a blueprint as such but the blueprint that had been laid out wasn't quite going to plan.
And so they're they're readjusting the re adapting their ideas in terms of this new context that arguably the earliest one of the earliest texts in the New Testament first Thessalonians.
This is already a concern so people have died people who are in Christ have died.
But you know there's confusion because wasn't God going to come back what happens to those people who have already died.
And so Paul has to say well you know that they'll be they'll be caught up as well don't worry about it.
It's still saved.
But you know like there was this expectation that in the interim like this was going to happen soon immediately right so by the time you get to Luke which could have been written late first century possibly early second.
It hasn't happened.
So you've got constant kind of redefinitions and I think the tension between the imminent, the imminent transformation of this real existing kingdom coming to earth in the here and now versus something that can, you know, it really gets pushed out.
I agree with you.
I think that it's really interesting Paula Frederson phrased it this way when I saw her in person.
She said, she said, Paul's late.
And I'm like, hold on what now now she's not saying I mean obviously that's our earliest source material but it's like what do you mean he's like, she's like, he's actually late in terms of the whole, like, when all the resurrection of the dead, all of that was already supposed to happen that's why they're having problems.
It's hard for us without being scholarly about it to wrap our heads around that like this guy is trying to fix a problem about something that hasn't already happened. And he's the earliest voice that we have.
That's, that's a big, I mean that's a big problem for any like radical fundamentalists or evangelicals that want to like.
That's a huge problem. I think I mean that's, we're talking mid first century and this is a problem and of course it's going to be a problem if you've got early and this is why I think the idea that of the earliest Jesus movement, historical Jesus we want to use that term being an eschatological prophet millenarian figure,
is, is one of the strong arguments, because already by the 50s the problems are happening very early on the problems are happening. And I mentioned john the end of john's gospel and second Peter chapter three.
Which you keep breaking up every time you say that it's like, say that again I'm sorry.
The end of john's gospel and to Peter chapter three, where the, I mean they're really in this sense they mean that it's happened that they know the stuff hasn't come true and now they're having to explain it away.
So in the case of john's gospel it's well if I was going to come back out, you know, it's not.
And in the case of two Peter three, it's like the Lord for the Lord one day is like a thousand and so on so then you go at the point where we okay it's not happening right now.
We're explaining it in a different way. Paul, maybe late in the sense that this should have happened but there's still time there in the sense that I will, the whole generation have died off now, it's not time.
I love this whole felled apocalyptic thing by the way it's a, it's actually one of my last legs I was standing on inside of Christendom before I ended up leaving.
Because it was the study of last things and the study of last things was the last thing I studied and once I figured out wow we should have looked at this sooner.
I didn't know this thing failed. Continuing Margaret development says there would be violence, taking power from the Romans or from other Jews. What was the plan.
There would be a shift in leadership. So the current elite who were Jews most you know Jews installed by Rome in in Galilee and Judea, such as Herod anti pass and pilot and Judea, you know, they're out and Jesus is in as the as the new King of Kings Lord of Lords with a with a
prominent members of the Jesus movement as, as, you know, the seconds and charge and so on.
And I think we see evidence of this kind of organization from pretty early in Marx Gospel we have the story about, you know, will we sit on your left or your right, you know, like there's this and that we've got arguments in the book about the technical arguments about why we think that particular
movement is very early. And it seems that they were, they were envisaging. Yeah, this new kingdom where, where Jesus and these other prominent members would be sitting on thrones, judging, judging Israel and the nations.
That's why I like it goes back to the age old and I'd love to get your take on this is that, you know, who, who's guilty, right. You see this become anti Semitic, the anti Jewishness of the God.
Well, to flip that on its head and to be a bit more specific, it's imagined as a Jewish theocracy, you know, the God of Israel is technically in charge, who will install his loyal subjects or Jesus as co regent and so on and
and other loyal prominent Jews. And Israel will be returned to a place of ongoing predominance among the nations. So Rome's day is out. And Israel is going to be the kind of the prime kingdom or nation of the world.
And this would mean kicking out the Jews that are playing with Rome to correct.
Right, because they're sinners.
Got it.
Thank you for that Chris. Good to see Chrissy here.
Should we be careful in assigning Jesus to an economic class.
Wasn't it typical of Greco Roman biography that the hero often start from humble origins, like Romulus, for instance, should we perhaps be skeptical of tecton Jesus.
Go ahead, answer that question because when I was in Sephiroth and they did all that reconstruction.
This curious thing James Tabor said we don't know but he says, you kind of wonder if Jesus was a tecton around this time. Did he lay some of these bricks and it makes you wonder you know anyway but go
Well, certainly there were ideas of stories about humble origins as biblical stories of some humble origins as well.
Shepard and all this kind of thing.
And story in stories all or whatever.
But just because there's a pre existing narrative doesn't mean to say that something behind it isn't true or not more accurate or whatever.
If we think of the Jesus movement as a product of what's happening in Galilee.
Then the idea of associating with a tecton is not unreasonable.
The proven this is very difficult but what we can see in the gospel tradition is that this is actually a bit of a problem.
Jesus as a tecton.
He's not as scribe as he should be as certainly Luke does not want this to be the case.
In the passage where Mark presents Jesus as this artisan figure, Luke turns him into the ultimate scribe.
We get complaints in the gospel tradition about them not being a proper scribe Mark doesn't seem to care too much.
Matthew puts it onto Joseph.
A little bit is the son of the tecton and things like so it.
There is evidence and Chris Keith's book Jesus.
And the scribal elite camera the title of it now but it's something like that makes this case pretty well that there is calling him right now and telling him you didn't get it right.
He can complain only once I think it is.
He's not watching.
It makes this case well that there is a scribalization of Jesus and this idea that he is this tecton is a bit of a problem early on now that takes us back to an early tradition is what I would say that the later gospel writers had to deal with.
It would.
Can you ultimately prove it well no.
It fits the parables though a lot too.
Yeah, I mean the whole stuff does is associated with agrarian context and tecton is is a lot broader than well certainly not necessarily carpenter the other explanation is working with stone really it's I think something like artisan is the better translation something
general worker.
And we get stories about how the tecton is the person who keeps the world running whilst the thinker in the city is the one who does all the clever elite thinking and all this kind of they're two different people different types.
So I think it's certainly I think it's a strong case that you would say Jesus was or the early movement was associated with these kinds of people is a reasonable one in Galilee if they're associated with the Galilee and peasantry as it looks likely.
Trying to do a mission to the rich or whatever I think some movement associated with a tecton as its leader is plausible.
And say about what Jesus did.
Well, I defer to what I said before a lot of this stuff is, we have to do the best guesses we can for the earliest possible ideas.
Yeah, I think I just quickly add to that that this, you know, it kind of harks back to that thing about when classes is talked about in historical Jesus research when it is talked about and it's hardly ever talked about.
It's often reduced to this kind of personal idiosyncrasy. So what was Jesus's class position, rather than talking about the broader class conflicts that he was caught up in.
So, you know, despite our uncertainty, I mean it seems reasonable it seems likely there's good arguments to be made that Jesus was a tecton.
But our argument doesn't like hinge and die on whether he was or not.
These broader social forces and class conflicts were still happening irrespective of Jesus's personal class location.
You know, so if we can't kind of nail that down precisely, although I think there's good reason as James was outlining why we why we can but even if we can't you know it's not the end of a class analysis at all.
It's interesting. I think of the parables where he talks about chief cornerstone and stuff like that which makes me I mean you can come up with all sorts of stuff because you've got him talking about vineyards and you got him talking about this but like makes me wonder if he is just tecton is he saying something like a
stone mason would know.
But then again, I like the broader idea because maybe maybe this person knows about stone masonry and knows about vineyards and knows about who knows what so
The language that these these teachings and these ideas have been communicated in our stories concerning like fishing, agriculture, building like these are this is a movement of workers right they're not talking about issues of let so it's all caught up in political language but they're
not talking about the high political issues of the day, like town planning, you know how much military occupation you need to keep the populace calm.
You know, these sorts of these sorts of issues that the teachings are communicated in this way that they're talking about the concrete lives of ordinary agrarian workers living in a kind of peasant culture or context.
Did you, you look like you wanted to say something.
Yeah, I just want to say I mean, it's difficult me that I mean I think it's important to compare what happens in Greco-Roman biographies about the origins of people.
It's important to compare what happens the origins of David or whatever as well in the Bible I mean these are all influential stories and influential narratives but we've got influential stories of people who come from prominent backgrounds as well.
We shouldn't get too caught up in narrative styles because they are there but because something is cast into a certain narrative style doesn't necessarily mean there's a there's no historical reality behind it or it doesn't prove or disprove it.
Right.
People cast these things in narrative styles in different ways.
That's all I think ultimately.
It's it's like the biggest issue I've discovered as a layperson getting into your scholarship everybody's scholarship you know that I've been studying it's like I get pulled back and forth I hear someone who's trying to make a case that it is true and it really happened or there's a historical
The next person comes in with a great literary exposition on it and I'm like, did it happen or did it not happen and it's like, at the very least I can walk away and say, okay, the author is well aware of verisimilitude at the very least, they are acquainted with the world and social structures that fit.
If it was historical, that doesn't mean it is and so that you've got some sometimes are wrong.
Luke will get some things wrong historically but you know like, it's one of those things I just sit back and go, it lowers your confidence on on obviously a faith certainty perspective like I am certain this happened.
If you're like a believer who needs that to be the case, you're going to come and hit a brick wall, but if you are more like historical research like we're doing trying to figure out what is and isn't like Chris is doing.
Trust me, Chris is sharp like, like we are like, you know, you're not going to have that issue. Anyway, hang for she again what kind of weapons would his followers be equipped with armor like what types of weapons would be available Greek swords aroma in Egyptian.
The early sword.
There's discussion over types of knives and length of knives and things like this.
That wouldn't be unusual. Let's put it that way to carry for protection because look at the power of the good Samaritan for instance, man gets the chick kicked out of him for wandering stupidly down a path when he shouldn't I mean it's going to happen.
So, I mean, I'm not an expert on ancient weapon weaponry, but I know people who are, but I guess there's different types of knives that have been discussed as one possibility of where a knife ends and the sword begins.
I don't know, but you look on my expertise in what types of weapons are because I'm kind of nice.
I haven't researched it really, but I'm kind is better.
We don't we don't touch on the book, but it's actually a really it's a really interesting question. I might look into it myself at some point right now.
Yeah, I don't know about armor. I don't think I'm trying to think and I don't think there's any.
I mean, we've got you. There's the whole metaphor that like Paul often uses these military metaphors of you know the armor but but the earliest followers of Jesus I'm not sure if we have any evidence that they, they arm it up they suited up or anything.
Not sure.
It's an interesting one I'd love to have you both right further on that we got a couple more and then I'll let you both both go.
John Muir Muir forgive me for butchering your name if I did. How should we look at the contrast between Jesus and Barabbas in the context of a revolutionary Jesus movement.
I thought it was fiction.
Just the whole act of it but what are your guys's thoughts like what do you think this is another done those really difficult ones I mean I think the whole passion narrative is caught up in rewriting and rewriting it becomes very very difficult to start talking about
absolutely fact anyway. I think what you can do with the Barabbas story though is
is to show it's again it's about a miscarriage of justice in a way that the mark is the gospel writers are presenting so the trial I think Jesus is presented as a quite overt miscarriage of justice and so is the crucifixion.
So it's the person who does look like he's the revolutionary violent revolutionary subversive who gets off where it's Jesus who's meant to be innocent doesn't
who gets the death that Barabbas should have got and things like this.
Of course as you guys people know Barabbas is son of a father.
So there's all sorts of things going on.
So I think that certainly the way it's framed is about innocence of Jesus and I think you get a lot of this in I think you get it certainly get it in Mark.
Discussions that we are not a violent subversive movement the death of John the Baptist in March 6 is like this it's John the Baptist is an innocent victim nothing to do with any of that violent stuff.
He's just innocently killed because of what what is presented as manipulative women.
So it gives a degree of innocence.
A lot of innocence to John the Baptist.
I think even gives some to Herod Antipas and is very peculiar story and why it does that is another question.
I think you get something similar happening with about the crucifixion is to flag up.
We're not group don't persecute don't kill.
We are innocent that kind of thing.
So but quite what's behind it.
I mean, I think it's so much entangled with all that kind of apologetics going on.
I mean, I think it's really, really difficult.
And the other issue with the passion is of course, I mean, it is written up in light of the Hebrew Bible and scriptures and fulfillment of prophecy that becomes so difficult to start disentangling all that.
And I was thinking about an early source that we have that has Jesus and Jesus Barabbas.
So a lot of some of the scholars have had on have actually tried to make the argument like Jesus Barabbas.
What the heck is going on here.
So you have two Jesuses and one is being one is the violent one.
One is the innocent one.
And they thought maybe this is a hint at the sacrificial like kind of a rewrite of a sacrifice in the Old Testament here.
But anyway, I didn't know if that whole what is it the textual variant having Jesus Barabbas, which is early, if that played any role in your mind.
I think it's a similar kind of argument.
I mean, Barabbas, I think one of the explainings, probably the best explanation is play on the Aramaic son of a father.
So it is play, you know, as in Jesus's son of God and so on.
So it is playing on a parallel between the two of them in some ways.
But the wrong one gets the ones and fairly kill the other ones.
Can I just chime in and just say that in the book, you know, James is exactly right in terms of how we kind of we start there.
But then we say, but look, irrespective of what actually happened during this trial with and in terms of Barabbas, we can.
We then go into this quite nuanced discussion about what the text reveals about the kind of the crowd dynamics and the different like social forces and upheavals that we're going.
So we can still have a quite general discussion about those sorts of dynamics that I think is really revealing about, you know, why Jesus would be put to death, what kind of things were going on.
Was there, had there been an uprising, had there been an attempted uprising around Passover, because there are sort of hints of that within within the tradition.
So, yeah, get the book and you can see kind of a more nuanced exploration of that.
And that just to ask, was that even a practice? Do we have any historical reference we could go to to show that they would release somebody like this?
Exactly, he suggested there's the stories about pardoning certain people but not this one is as an actual practice.
No, but it could be based on earlier stories about pardoning certain criminals but not as a practice as a standard practice, not as far as we know.
Thank you. Thank you. Last one.
Oh, yeah, but yeah, no, just within within kind of cross cultural studies of crowds, the idea of kind of releasing a sacrificial victim to satiate the anger of the crowd.
So this is something that the anthropologists have written about cross culturally in terms of kind of crowd dynamics and this sort of thing.
So this adds another really interesting lens on the whole discussion.
Thank you for that. Imnaq, thank you for the beautiful wonderful super chat helping us out here at MythVision.
Is there any stories in the Bible old or New Testament that's that's original original to Jewish writing, or is everything just copies of other stories?
This is a little this is outside of the book, obviously.
Well, I mean, in one sense, yes and no, I mean, nothing's original anywhere, but but also there's usually cultural peculiarity and peculiarities.
So you will find no doubt all sorts of parallels to biblical stories in Asia, Asia Minor Mediterranean or whatever.
I mean, in terms of the recognizable forms, what has already been given would be biography.
And the common argument is that the Gospels reflect Greco-Roman biography.
And I'm sure that that's true. And they're given their own and they work within these traditions within their own cultural context.
So the Jesus story will be infused with all sorts of ideas about Jewish, exegesis and so on and so forth.
And you could say it's any number of Jewish, Jewish texts, Christian texts, any text across the ancient world.
So I mean, they're all these things are all integrated in one level. There are similarities across cultures.
There's nothing truly unique anywhere, really.
But people use recognizable cultural forms, genres and so on to make a point that is meaningful in their own context, but also understandable within a broader context.
I think is the way I would frame that.
I think relatedly, I often get asked about, you know, was Jesus was the historical Jesus unique or original or what have you.
And I think people get some people get challenged by historical analysis, in particular the way we do it, because we're wanting to compare Jesus and the early Jesus movement to other ideas that were around at the time other traditions, other social movements, right?
So we're constantly making these comparisons, which is actually what I think good historical work needs to do.
It needs to put it in that context.
And the answer, I think, is that from a historical perspective, as James said, nothing is actually unique.
I mean, everything is unique and nothing's unique. I'm unique, but I'm also, you know, I share a lot of things in common with other people, and I think it's the same with Jesus.
What was unique about Jesus was the specific combination of things that he shared in common with with other groups, people and so on.
And I think the same can be said about the text in the Bible.
That was why I guess the literally last thing I'm going to say and ask, and it's really pretty much your thoughts based on your research, everything you've both dove into.
Why Jesus? I mean, you had John the Baptist die. Why wasn't there like a cult that surrounded him in the same way of him resurrecting?
Why did they think he rose from the dead and not John or Theodos or Judas the Galilean or whoever died?
Do you have a personal opinion in your research as why they thought it was this guy and not anyone else?
Well, didn't Herod think that Jesus might be John the Baptist, raised back to life?
Like, the idea that even people coming back to life was unique to Jesus is simply not true.
Or Nero, right? Nero read Aviva.
Right. So these ideas existed both within and outside of Jewish contexts.
I suppose it's one of those difficult questions where, you know, we're looking at this question through the legacy of 2000 years of Christianity and Jesus being this legendary figure and so on.
And it's kind of hard to explain. Well, why?
And then I kind of want to turn the question on its head. Well, why does there need to be a reason?
Why does it have to be something to do with Jesus himself or with something that was distinctive about that movement that that led to it?
This was just this was just the combination of the social and historical forces that came together in a particular way and produced this particular phenomena.
And that's what happened. So what?
Yeah, I think that's right. And I think we shouldn't get. I mean, it was an important moment.
I think that they believed that Jesus didn't die and was. Oh, sorry, Jesus was resurrected.
Right.
So the movement could continue.
John the Baptist movement continued, though, without necessarily belief and resurrection or anything like this.
But anyway, nonetheless, there is to give another shameful plug.
Shameless. Shameless. Shameless.
We're all shamed in here.
You want me to share the screen?
No, no, no, because I've got too much shit on it, nothing bad.
Mary Magdalene in lingerie.
It's late night, you know, it's late night.
Right.
There's a big project in the book coming out next year called the next quest for the historical Jesus where we're pushing a number of scholars of different perspectives tried to push in different questions on it.
And this was one of the very questions we asked is what about other movements?
We've got there's a really interesting article by someone called Nathan Johnson who talks about deceitians and their idea that they may have understood about resurrect had ideas about the leader surviving in whatever way and the movement lasting several centuries and then dying out.
So I think you can have both things.
You can have a movement where the key figure survives in some way, resurrection or whatever.
You can have a movement where the bigger died, the movement survives.
Okay, you were talking before.
You said, you know, you hang around in Christian circles, despite, you know, and his eschatology that really got to you.
But he's pretty clear the movement survived that easily survived the problem that the second coming didn't happen in a generation.
The king didn't even come wasn't that big a problem for its survival.
So you've got to think of, you know, there's plenty of reasons why movement survived social reasons.
Networks I've talked about and things like this, they survive for various other reasons.
I don't think you get too hung up on the idea that it has to be a resurrected figure or whatever.
Of course.
Yeah.
And I was just where we are often taking your materialistic approach.
I was simply wondering if there was maybe certain components that you thought this might have been one of the reasons and there's probably no way to know.
Right.
That's that's the difficult thing.
I think, I mean, if I was going to speculate a little more and probably repeat what I was saying, some of it's by chance, but he taps into things that are happening bigger, broader issues.
I mean, the idea of big overarching God is really developing in the ancient world.
And once you've got something that can just tap into that into these networks that exist around the Mediterranean, you've got this idea of justification for going to different social groups and different ethnic groups.
I don't want to push it too hard, but it's almost waiting to happen.
And yeah, I think often unintentionally, this Christianity becomes the one for reasons that it didn't necessarily deliberately do, but it found itself in that kind of position.
And perhaps as early as the mid first century, but that it was starting to take off in a range of different networks.
And it was there to justify or provide an option for people who are starting to believe in similar things.
I want our audience to know that if you think we exhausted this book today, you would be wrong.
Okay, there's so much more in this book.
And trust me, we definitely did an airplane view.
There's a lot we touched that is in the work, but there's so much detail and you really need to get this this work for two reasons.
This can help you better understand the arguments leading up to the historical materialist approach on understanding the context and the best we can.
If I'm going to give the best ability on knowing the historical Jesus and what's happening, this is it.
This is your best guess.
After that, you know, it's up for grabs.
I mean, there's no, there's no way I can't see how we would get any closer to the guy if we're trying to find him.
This is the book.
Also, I want to have them back.
So the way you can do that is purchase a copy.
Let us know.
Drop a comment if you've got the book on Amazon.
I know right now it's $15.99 on Kindle $29.95 right now on paperback.
I hope people will check that out.
You can also get it used.
But if you want someone else's dirty fingerprints on that, you can go for it.
You can get a brand new one for a few extra bucks.
Anyway, that's a shameless plug, right guys?
Yeah, shameless plug.
Shameless and shameful.
Love it.
I'm all about the shame.
Yeah, I really hope that you will come back and I hope this actually helps people to learn more about the topic.
I like to engage in the debate, the discussion, scholars who think there's more literary, less than literal or historical stuff.
But I love the approach you take and you're very balanced.
You're not dogmatist on the historicist side.
Notice I used the term historicist.
That's probably a foreign term you're not used to hearing, but I have people who come on and think Jesus didn't exist at all.
So people who believe there was a Jesus, they're called historicists and people who aren't are mythicists.
And so there's this debate that goes on, of course, that would be the less popular view.
But there's like the wrestling that goes on between both camps.
And I didn't know, did you want to say one comment about what you think about the mythicist position?
No, no comment.
I'll make a really quick comment, which is just to do with the why I think the historical materialist approach is really important.
So it's kind of, it's not about the mythicist approach specifically, but it's more something that may have not been considered in enough detail, which is that the sources that we have both the literary and the archaeological record overwhelmingly come from the elite.
Or they, they preserve kind of, you know, the lives of the elite in history.
So archaeology tends to be more monumental.
The makeshift lives, lives of itinerant figures, poorer figures and stuff, they get erased from history, right?
So I think we need to be very, very careful about making claims about whether, you know, and kind of what what threshold or what level of historical evidence we need to say that.
Non-elite figures in history, which are the, you know, overwhelming majority of people who have ever lived were historical or not.
We simply do not have the same or we shouldn't expect to have the same levels of evidence about non-elite figures.
So, you know, this is a more general point just about how we do history and that class based questions are really important.
Otherwise we risk erasing the existence of poor people or non-elite people from history altogether.
Do we want to do that?
Yeah.
I will say something. I think it's only fair.
I don't want to be flippant and heaven first then.
But this is why we're keen to talk about, we're not that interest.
I'd be very interested if I could prove it, but we're not pushing the idea of the individual Jesus really here.
We're talking about ideas and a movement that early, the earliest tradition is what the way I would frame this.
Partly because that's simply all you can do in my opinion.
Yeah.
And I think it's in some levels, I think this sort of bypasses the mythicist versus historicist debate because we're talking about ideas that are associated with Galilean Judea,
say around the year 30 or something like this.
I'm not saying that there was a historical figure of Jesus who said the parable of the good Samaritan or anything like that.
But I could, I think I could argue, for instance, there are certain ideas that are quite peculiar to early Judaism have got absolutely zero interest in Gentiles.
In fact, I've got no real use for a Gentile audience.
They've got bits of Aramaic and very obvious, I think, in not many, but some cases, Aramaic stuff.
And you bring all these ideas together and you can make a collective weight that this looks like it's a passage or a theme that goes back to say that was plausible in the 30s or 20s or whatever in Galilee,
rather than some of the stuff that's more likely to come from Christianity at the turn of the second century or something like that.
So I prefer to think in terms of themes, ideas that will be early, peculiar to Jewish context, not really of any interest to Gentiles and non-Jews and try to think of chronology of ideas.
That's the way I would.
So I tried to bypass some of that. That may not be happy news for the historicists or the mythicists, but they can go on the Internet and argue with themselves.
I love the way you.
I do like what you said though.
Outside of being more virgin than the other.
No, I get it.
I get it. No, I appreciate it because the question can get old after a while.
It's okay.
I hope people will get your book.
Go in the description.
If you're watching this later, get the book.
Check out their links.
You can go to the websites as well.
We give a little shameless plug again.
There's the book.
We have courses.
If you haven't taken our courses, please check us out.
I mean, you're missing out 4K, really good content.
I hope that you'll come and check us out on MVPCourses.com.
That's in the description.
We also have the Patreon, which is a little private family.
That was actually, I know that looks kind of, you'd have to watch the video to get the point.
But yes, she was a pastor.
And now she's an only fan's worker.
So we do all sorts of stuff here on MythVision.
Opula.
Right?
You know, Dr. Matthew Munger actually goes to your, he works.
Yeah.
So there's all sorts of stuff.
I had this one's Del Martin.
We did a live stream with him on sex and the single savior.
Talking about all sorts of fun stuff.
Anyway, come check us out, support what we do and leave a comment.
Share this out with somebody else so they can get the book.
I hope you enjoyed this.
Both of you enjoyed this interview as well.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you so much.
Thanks for having us.
Thank you.
Stick around for one second as we do this little apocalyptic thing and final words with you gentlemen.
Thank you.
Thank you.
