Jesus Christ was a mushroom. Now, I know this sounds completely wack. Every time I brought this theory up to my mom or anybody in my family when I first heard of it,
I was really fascinated by Jesus being a mushroom. And I saw some YouTube video where John and Malek grows on camera. It's a black and white film and they ask him,
you honestly believe that Jesus Christ was a mushroom. And he says, well, if you put it to me like that, yeah. Well, we talk openly about this idea of Jesus being a mushroom,
me and David King. We have a good fun conversation and I'm just pointing out some interesting art that has been in stained glass and throughout history of the church,
where they had images where Jesus and mushrooms were present. John and Malek may be someone that you don't think had the truth when it comes to this issue.
I personally don't know. I'm very agnostic, but he did say this was a mushroom cult or a cult where they practiced in ingesting psychedelics and things like that.
I know a quick way to visit God, if you will, just ingest a little bit of ayahuasca or ominino muscaria mushroom or maybe he's psilocybin. I don't know. Try it and you might actually get to meet Jesus.
Either way, we have fun in this show. I hope you guys enjoyed. Don't forget to subscribe to his channel and before you leave this video, subscribe to mine.
Or why don't you hit it right now? Peace.
Alright, I gotta do this last one with you, bro. We've been turning off and on this recording for quite some time and I figure why not just touch on it.
I don't know how true this is, but you gotta admit there's something going on with some form of Christianity, whether they're monks, whether they're what they are.
John and Malegro, we were talking about the Dead Sea Scrolls. We were talking about some interesting shit and long story short is there's mushroom theory.
John and Malegro wrote a book called The Sacred Mushroom in the Cross. He believed that Jesus was a mushroom experience that the Gospel narratives are describing this mushroom trip, if you will, the idea of the sacrament.
You know how Paul talks about that many have died, they took it unworthy, died of what?
And why would you die eating the Lord's Supper? Makes no sense, right? It's just bread and it's just wine.
Well, if you drink some crazy shit with dimethyl tryptamine in it or some type of omni-nita mascara or psilocybin mushroom, this is the hunch that, yeah, you could probably die.
It's very poisonous. It's dangerous. And if you take it unworthy, they would probably say if you died from taking it, oh, some sin you didn't do or something.
Today we look at it and go, the chemical breakdown of that shit was a little too much for your body to handle.
But regardless, I'm going to show you some images here real quick, share my screen with you.
And, dude, this is just brief, guys. I am so not even going anywhere with this, so please don't throw stones at me.
But like ancient glass Christian art, right? You see here, certain symbols are in Christian art.
This is not like, I just, this isn't like someone just recently came up and said, I'm just going to draw some stuff.
This is an old, and I think this is middle age. I don't know. This could be sometime really old art in churches.
These are mushrooms growing at the feet of Jesus, by the way, in case you're wondering where this yellow dot is.
Let's see what else we have here.
Here's another image, and if you look here, here's that one right here. I've had it explained, someone said, you know, you've got your psilocybin, and in here you also have the opiate poppy.
Look down there. Man, I wish I could zoom in. I can't do that. Look at all these plants. I mean, this is really strange imagery, but this is not like someone took these and put these together recently.
This is something that was drawn, you know.
Let's see what we have. I saw this. I don't know. I don't know about that, but it looks really strange how you have the halo around the child's head, and this is the sacred mushroom in the cross by John M. Allegra.
He was a Dead Sea Scroll scholar. He understood Aramaic. He believed that there were incantations, that there were like magical sayings and secret rituals of a cult of probably like a secret mystery school cult that was practicing these things.
Now, some people say he went way over and they said he was a crackpot, like he lost it, right? He went way too far, and he lost his credibility due to writing this book, The Sacred Mushroom in the Cross.
This is what put him on the outside of scholarship in their heads, and they're like, no, here's another image. This is like a legit actual ancient art, okay? And those are mushrooms, literally.
There's an interesting idea. I don't know how true this is, but circumcision, right?
Like, why is it that you're cutting the foreskin off? What's exposed but the mushroom tip, okay?
Notice that the Jews practice that. There's an idea. This is really old too. I don't know if this is the actual art, but Adam and Eve are depicted, okay?
And the tree of the knowledge of good and evil with the serpent, okay? This is the mushroom that is giving you knowledge of good and evil concept, okay?
And the mushroom could simply be the penis as well, and it's definitely the idea of the penis. And if you go back into ancient religions, you know, the sex and the idea of the shaft, okay?
This goes into Egyptian stuff, where you're looking into all this stuff that this could be tied into Christianity.
Here's another one. That's another close-up of real art, not like modern-day depiction crap, old stuff.
And this theory is interesting to look at, man. And you've never even looked at this or never even heard of this stuff?
No, I've never heard of this.
Yeah. This is something just to check out. There's a lot of people who say, dude, yeah, this is what's going on.
Very interesting. Thank you for taking the time of walking through that.
Yeah, I know. Dude, this is brief. It's bad. But another thing is the manna, right? What is manna?
And it's the gift given from heaven to the Israelites by God and the wilderness.
And, well, it appears small, round, out of nowhere. And if they don't dispose of it, the worms consume it, right?
It'll rot, and the worms will get it if they try to hold onto it.
And people say that manna is probably mushrooms, probably psilocybin mushrooms.
This theory of the mushroom, too, is something to look at pertaining to, I even mentioned this to Dr. Price on a show, with Christmas.
There's a theory, and there's a lot of theories. There's a theory, though, that Christmas, the red-white idea, Santa Claus, which takes place back in Siberia.
There were Siberian shaman that actually went out through the year.
Now, mind you, in Siberia, there are real reindeer. Real reindeer. Not like, I told my wife that.
Look, my wife's a blonde, bro. She's so sweet and so gullible, but she was like, stop playing.
And I'm like, I'm talking about actual reindeer, though. I'm not like, there is no actual reindeer.
And I'm like, no, but seriously, like, there's really reindeer, and they're called reindeer.
And she didn't get it. And it was so sweet, though, just hearing her not understand. It was funny.
But the reindeer would drag the shaman out, you know, to go wherever he went on a sled.
And he would go and pick these ominita-mascaria mushrooms, these red-and-white mushrooms, underneath Christmas trees.
They grow in Siberia under the Christmas trees.
And he'd pick them, and wouldn't you know it, he'd hang them on the tree like an ornament to dry out.
And come back with his sack and fill the sack full of these red-and-white mushrooms and travel back to the village.
And during the winter solstice, when the sun is lowest in the sky, when the sun dies, interesting.
Okay. I don't know if this has to do with a three-days concept or not.
And if this is some northern idea being rubbed off into a mixture here, I don't know.
Some say that the winter solstice is also depicted in the fictional tale of Jonah in the Well,
because the fish, being a celestial sign, swallows the man, Jonah, and he goes down into the belly of the sea,
which has been below the horizon.
Okay. The idea of the fish going down is a certain celestial body going down beneath the horizon.
And it goes down beneath the horizon for three days.
And then it comes back.
Oh, well, it appears back above the horizon.
That is possibly the winter solstice where the sun may not appear above the horizon.
I don't know. It's just part of myth. It is the storytelling.
And he would go and he would give a gift or gifts to the households and wouldn't, you know,
they would be getting some, some ominous scary mushrooms as gifts from the shaman.
The shaman would say, it's time to trip. Everybody takes the mushrooms.
And they would even drink the urine of the reindeer because the toxins would filter through the reindeer.
And even to this day, this is practiced in certain places of the world.
They would drink the piss of the shaman or the reindeer.
The shaman would be used to the tolerance of the toxins.
So they wouldn't die from drinking, you know, or eating the mushrooms,
but their urine would carry the toxins and their followers could drink it with it,
not having or having it been filtered already through the liver and they could drink it and they'd have trips.
And according to Allegra, he says this mystery cult, this cult of mushroom coal called Christianity in the first century,
they were all ingesting these, these mushroom experiences or some type of mushrooms.
And anyway, something to look at.
He got this from the Dead Sea Scrolls?
No, I don't, I don't know that. I know he looked at from what he did is he did the research on the Dead Sea Scrolls.
I don't know if he says that Dead Sea Scrolls carry any of this.
I have not even read the book, not even one page.
I've heard he takes a lot of time in etymology and he deals with a lot of like trying to understand where the words come from and why.
And he really gets into some shit that's way over my head.
It's probably going to be way over yours in terms of language and linguistics and stuff and understanding why they use these terms.
But I'll give you one example that I do recall someone mentioning him.
The phrase that Jesus says, they says, how shall we pray?
And he says like this, our Father who are in heaven, how would be thy name, right?
We know the saying till this day it's ritualized.
It's, it's literally an incantation today even as a prayer.
In the Hebrew, it would be Abba something almost like Abra Kadabra.
Okay, like an incantation like Abra Kadabra magic.
Well, what did Jesus be accused of all the time magic.
And this is really strange, bro.
If there's any, it just makes me wonder like, is there any truth to a magician cult leader fricking shaman there?
I don't know.
Abra Kadabra.
Yeah, the art work that that was super interesting to show.
Oh, I didn't even show it all, man.
There's, there's, there's videos on YouTube that go extensively.
There's books that actually people have put together.
They've traveled through all these churches in Rome and in a variety of locations where there were medieval monks and then there were Christian movements that obviously weren't mainstream.
It's not like they went out openly saying everybody take the mushrooms. No, I suspect these are for high order ranking.
Priest, probably people who are, you know, somebody's in the church that were ingesting, or at least we're prone to seeing and knowing these things.
Yeah, if Jesus is a mushroom.
And you know how they say they talk about the, there's always that little conspiracy that the golden chalice is out there somewhere.
You've heard about it, right?
There's the golden chalice somewhere in the Roman Catholics always talk about how there was the, what was that group that broke off from them and the crusades and shit that happened and pretty much that there's a golden chalice somewhere.
Well, the golden chalice, if you take one of those red and white mushrooms and let it dry out or let it just on the ground without even plucking it, let it, let it build up.
Water fills it in the water actually takes once it starts drying up and getting aged.
Okay, water takes away the red and the white in the, the mushroom turns gold.
And so this idea of a golden chalice could come from possibly the mushroom.
But I don't know because I don't know if I'm gonna need a muscular mushroom is native to that area, or if this is possibly from a Siberian or northern influence.
I don't know man, I don't know enough.
I know though the ideas that they espouse and he said in that little video that 42 second clip on a black and white screen that the names of the disciples are actually he's saying they're actually terms used for different mushrooms.
Now that's where people said dude you went way overboard but I don't give a shit what people say.
I want to look at something.
I mean, if you can show me it's wrong, show me it's wrong.
But what if this guy who's, I mean, dude, he's privy to the point where they use them to interpret Dead Sea or to translate Dead Sea Scrolls and stuff.
He's not a dummy.
But I don't know.
Well, there's there's people today that seek enlightenment through like ayahuasca trips with a shaman and stuff like that and mushrooms and I live in San Diego and was at a concert the other night and somebody offered.
It was a maybe psilocybin powder or something like that.
So it's like, it's super common, you know, and people are seeking freedom and like he called himself a medicine man and he was probably my age was wearing a fur hat.
You know, and in Ocean Beach, San Diego.
Wow.
No.
Well, if you want to see a light on a road to Damascus.
You never know.
Right.
You never know.
You're going to need some help.
Right.
Or if you want to, yeah, experience things.
I mean, I don't know, dude, I heard about a shaman one time from someone told me that the shamans, you know, they trip the most they always they're always taking it with their people that they're taking to trips.
There's a guy in South America that was taking people through the ayahuasca thing.
This man literally divorced his wife in the real world for the woman that he married in that other realm.
He married a woman that he met while in his ayahuasca world.
And he says that that world is more real than this one.
And he ends up divorcing his wife from this world to be with that one.
It's dude.
That's wild, dude, that you would have a whole relationship.
Yeah.
He said that or he used it for his divorce.
You know, who knows what he believes.
That's pretty wild when you believe something like that.
There's a bunch.
I think you'd be interested to check out some of the YouTube videos that talk about this.
Joe Rogan was in a video called the spirit molecule.
And it's pretty much about diamethyl tryptamine.
And I don't know the correct scientific.
Someone in my that's watching this right now that's on my show, like that watches this stuff.
They'll know more.
They'll have links down in the comment section.
I'm telling you, you'll get someone who knows this stuff more than me and you'll be shocked to find out it's a rabbit hole.
I mean, there's a reason even Mario, if you look at like Super Mario.
Look at how he's dressed.
Red and white and he jumps on red and white mushrooms and grows.
All right.
Yeah, there's a lot tied in into this, I think, and more people know about it and they've subliminally hit it as their craft like Disney into their stuff.
And Disney was not a dumb guy.
Disney knows about astro theology.
He knows about the great year.
Disney knew about a lot of secret society type concepts, if you will, not saying he was one.
But I wouldn't be surprised if he was aware of things like he might have been a Freemason.
Freemasons know a lot of this stuff too.
You know, so stuff to look at.
Very interesting.
Yeah, more man.
All sorts of stuff.
I don't know how true it is, but there's that dispute of the fruit.
And you saw the image, the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil to know what's good and evil.
And according to another thing, and I'll end on this note because I'm just trying to remember things I remember from that, from when I was researching it.
They said that when you drink the Lord's Supper and, you know, drink of his blood, eat of his flesh, right?
When you do that, you know, that that's when you would truly know your sins are forgiven and have eternal life, right?
Jesus says, if you eat of me, you will then truly, I am the life, right?
Like you eat and consume me, you will live forever, right?
Well, I've tripped before and I can vouch with 100% validate this.
If you've never tripped and you're watching this, that I went to this place in my head where I saw and there's not a way to describe this in words that this is the best I can do.
I knew what I was doing wrong and what I was doing right.
And I knew I could not but help seeing myself completely naked.
That's the only way I can describe it.
I was truly naked and I saw my flaws.
Like I knew as a parent, as a father, how I wasn't being the best father that I could be.
I knew as a husband, and I mean, I'm not even kidding you, I'm telling you the truth, David, right now.
I'm not even joking when I tripped.
I saw how I could be a better father and better husband and I hurt me.
I saw it for what it was though.
I didn't beat around the bush.
I didn't disregard that.
Drinking numbed me.
I didn't give two crabs.
I could be a piece of shit.
It didn't hurt me.
I just drank more and I numbed it.
This, when I ingested these, I saw myself for what I wasn't being what I could have been.
You need to do better.
And they say, people who are into this that know this stuff will say, that's how you can truly see your sins.
It's like, it's like, if you really want to get rid of the shame and guilt, right?
Like you really want to see your sins.
And I know how you define it as IO in terms of sins, but I'm simply saying it's not like sins only exist biblically.
Like every world view out there in the world has a moral code that they live by and that's what technically they're saying here.
Hey, these are your sins.
You want to see your sins?
This is it.
And that moral code becomes apparent once you have ingested these things and go, but you have to self evaluate.
You know, you can trip on mushrooms and not even think about these things.
I was evaluating myself not meaning to while I was laying in bed trying to go to sleep and I couldn't.
And I kept thinking about my life and thinking about my children and how I how I need to feed my third son more because he's a little skinny.
And how I haven't really shown my wife that I love her as much as I really do.
And like, and it took me in a like, I can't describe it.
I saw it.
I was naked.
I was Adam and Eve, bro.
Like that's how I felt at least so.
Yeah, that's pretty much it.
They say that your sins can be forgiven because then you can see them, you know, and Paul was the chief of all centers.
He must have been tripping a lot, bro.
You know, anyways, that was interesting.
That was a cool rabbit hole.
Thank you.
