Dr. Richard C. Miller, your work has been quite impactful on many of the academics that I have
talked to who love to use your work, pointing out that when a body goes missing of a hero or
someone important, it is a signal that they had become a god. Dr. Robin Faith Walsh references
your work a lot on this. I've heard Dennis McDonald, of course, reference your work. I've heard
several academics make this point. And I wouldn't be shocked if I think Bart has made
even comment to this idea where he thinks the empty tomb is legend and such.
I'm not 100% sure on that, but I do know that there are several academics who see what you're
saying. Today, we're going to go through the missing body of Jesus and how does that translate
to translation, Fable, that he becomes a god and like going into each account and what are the
antecedents to this kind of idea so that we can say without a doubt to someone who's watching,
look at what the Gospels are doing with Jesus. Right. I'm not the first to observe this,
the vanished body. In fact, a lot of my research was just looking through ancient sources, just
pouring through it, looking for basically the word disappeared or vanished. That went a long way.
And as often as not, I would find another example that was just popping out. Now,
in my book, I've got, I don't know, upwards to 100 examples or more in there. Many of them
are vanished bodies. And that's oftentimes the most fundamental kind of cue for the reader that
we're talking about a translation here. And so that was a literary signal that this person had.
It was assumed what that meant. Now, in some of those passages, it actually says it spells out
what would happen that this was, and they were worshiped as a god, or they built a shrine on
this location or blah, blah, blah, blah. And so there were other signals as they're there as well
to indicate the institution of cultists or that this person was to be recognized as a god.
I think Callerhoe, this novel that is often popularly quoted along these lines is definitely
playing on that same idea that, you know, when the tomb is found empty, you know,
basically the lady had become a god, right? Now, it's a funny story. That story is funny,
just to give people a little something about it, is that she didn't really die and like was taken,
I guess she survived. They took her body or the people stole her or whatever,
because she was a witness to them stealing. I can't remember, but it's like,
he automatically assumed she's a god, which tells you the mindset of people who would have seen
this. Yes, and that's the linguistic, this has to do with cognition, it has to do with a highly
entrenched tapas that would have been immediately recognized in the ancient mind and the ancient
reader. And so it was so recognized that it's just assumed. That's the assumed interpretation,
that's the default interpretation of what that would mean. Someone vanished,
whether it's in a tomb or not, in that case it was, but anywhere they vanished and they could not
find the body, immediately what the implied kind of interpretation on that would be translation.
And before we get into the Mark, Matthew, Luke, John,
stuff is reversing. You've been doing a lot of interesting things about reversing things when
I bring up an apologist says, and then you go, we'll ask them to do this. Could we also
do the same thing with this and say, okay, show me in Greek or Roman antiquity any literature
where bodies go missing and they don't become deified or something like that. How often you
might find an exception, but that's most likely rare. Yeah, it goes back to, and I quote in there,
the Harvard classes, late Harvard classes, Mr. Pease, Dr. Pease. And basically his
observation is this was so common, it was just an echoed motif for over a thousand years in classical
antiquity, this was going on. And so this is some little narrow phenomenon that this was highly
entrenched in the ancient mind and that interpretation would have been unambiguous. And so, yeah, I'll
go ahead and challenge your viewers to go back there and find areas where find attacks where
somebody vanished at the end of their career or whatever and how it was interpreted differently.
Okay, now I don't think that you'll fail, I think you might find a few. But I think the reason I
want to send you on that task is I think you'll find hundreds of examples that are right in line
with what I'm saying and very few that aren't. And so, and I don't know the few that aren't,
I think I found one or two or it's like, okay, that's clearly, it seems to be meaning something
else like, oh, and then they found the body was three weeks later out in the dump or something
like that, you know, and it's like, okay, well, that was not the interpretation then of that text.
But more often than not, like far more often than not, like 99% of the time, what you're going to
find is this was the interpretation and that's how you would signal it in literature that this
person was an exalted figure. They had a vanished body. Why did they have to vanish? Because if
you had their remains, you would know they were mortal forever. They would be a tomb and yeah.
Your book goes into the how they had wax, what are they called, effigies?
Yes. Wax effigies of Caesars and stuff and that when they go to burn the body publicly,
everyone goes, oh, there's no bones, he became a god and he's here.
He's Heracles. Yeah, he's the next Heracles. You could technically say there were eyewitnesses
to it, right? Yeah, yeah, and they would. They would pay a significant amount of money to those
eyewitnesses. We're talking about like, buy a house money for stepping forward and saying,
I saw him ascend to heaven or I saw him on the road with Claudius and these different figures.
I saw him ascend and so you'd have someone step forward that would attest to this and swear to
it and confess and so yeah. So we got just missing body. Just the missing body alone can signal that
but there's a lot more than just the missing body with Jesus that signals something there.
So we're going to go into that. Mark's Gospel. I don't have that pulled up. I didn't think we need
to read it. We could kind of go most from what I understand the scholar say. It ends with,
for the women we're afraid, but he says, go and tell them as he told them before,
I will meet them in Galilee. Yeah. That gets like, almost like you talk about Luke, the beginning of
Luke, Christian apologists will jump on that. Oh, all the Gospels are doing histories and
they're eyewitnesses and this is really accurate of what's going on because they all want to make
everything fit this little tiny paragraph or a couple sentences. In that part, they go,
well, see, he said he's going to meet him in Galilee. So they don't say he ascended. They want
to say he's going to meet him in Galilee. So there's no translation taking place to heaven.
But then he says, and the women were, they told no one, they were afraid.
Tell us why Mark is a translation fable and then we'll get deeper into seeing how these
same Gospels that are copying Mark are going and elaborating even further.
Right. Right. Well, I mean, your own friend, what was his name, Matt?
Hartke. Hartke. Love that guy. He pointed out something pretty interesting in Mark and I would
agree with him. An observation I've made in the past myself. You have an Inclusio at the beginning
of Mark. He's declared to be a son of a God. And you know, there's an indefinite article there,
a son of a God. And then you've got a text that is presenting him as such. What is a son of a
God, a demigod? That is the unambiguous in the ancient world. And that we would translate that
with, we're kind of superimposing that a theological framework, but the original readers would have
read demigod. And so, and at the end of it, at the end of his erratology or his story of great
feats and tall tales at the end of it, he is a son or he disappears, which was an unambiguous,
you know, the most probably the most unambiguous signal that you can give that someone had been
translated. And so, you have a cenotaph, an empty tomb. And empty tombs in antiquity,
that's what they were for. They were for individuals that had been declared to been
translated. There's no body, there's no remains. Wrapping up on Mark into Matthew, going to Galilee.
The women don't even tell him. Like he said earlier that they were going to meet him in
Galilee or supposed to. And then the disciples, knuckleheads, reject him to the very end. He
tells the women at the tomb, they told no one, they were afraid, the end, boom. But he is missing
from the tomb. There's an angel that tells him or a young man, it's not called an angel, it's a young
man. Dennis has his thing, everyone has their own little thing on explaining what that is.
But he's no longer dead. That's the idea. He has become a god, Matthew. Now we're Matthew,
I figured let's have some fun. I'll read it and you tell me what you see or what.
So did we finish up on Mark? I don't know. Did you have something you wanted to?
Yeah, I think there's something to be said. I don't know if there's a way to splice it in there,
but there's something to be said about like, why is it go to Galilee and I'll meet you there?
Why are they running in fear at the end or running away afraid? What's that mean?
So you have a missing body, an empty tomb, it's a cenotaph in the ancient world. And so
you could do a study and look at what cenotaphs were and how they were used. But basically,
this is a place where you would venerate someone who had a missing body and their air go were
translated. And so that was a place, if you did not have the remains and you wanted to, and this
was an exalted figure, the assumption was that they had ascended and that they were deified in
that way. Okay, so we get to Mark. Now oftentimes scholars want to suppose that there was some
longer ending to Mark that somehow got lost in the sands of transmission history. Well,
I don't think that's necessary at all. The ending of Mark is vivid. The ancient reader,
it would have registered as a profound ending to that narrative. The fact that the tomb was empty,
there's supposedly going to meet him in Galilee and the women run away in fear. Now,
that ending and running away in fear, there was an entire celebration across in the knowns of
Quintillus, that is a calendric celebration throughout the major cities of Roman Greek east
that celebrated the flight of the people from Romulus' ascension. And they were afraid. It's
the fearful flight. It's the poplifugia. They are fleeing in fear from what they had observed
when Romulus was taken away in a cloud. And so I would say that that feels, now I don't want to
hang my entire thesis on that, but given the other body of evidence that's marshaled here,
that fits right in there. Romulus is the quintessential translation fable of the Roman world.
And so people would have known about it. It was on the calendar. People understood what this meant.
And so they're fleeing in fear. Why then go to Galilee? Well, there's a lot of work going on in
Mark with the Messianic secret and other places to try and William Vreda, the old scholar of
the past century, pointed all this out. And basically, there are moments in Mark where it's
trying to make way for its own narrative in the face of that there was no prior tradition. So
where did this story come from? All the local people don't know about it. All of a sudden,
they're being told to be silent about who Jesus really is, his true identity and all this stuff,
and that later only at the select few actually really know that, well, why is that? Well, no
prophet is without honor except for in their own town and in their own stomping grounds, right?
Why do they have to say that? That's because if there was a mundane figure that was known in that
world, that figure and what Mark's, how he's being dressed up and embellished in Mark are two very
different things. So Mark has to make way for that in some ways in order to give an excuse.
Why did no one know about this? Well, they were afraid and didn't say anything until they got
the gala. So in Galilee, then you might conjecture that that's where the story cropped up. Why was
it only known then and later or there and later rather? And so it's doing some work to try and
reconcile that right at the very end. Why didn't people already know about this prior to that?
Why is that story breaking somewhere later and somewhere very different in terms of geography?
So Matthew's building obviously off of Mark. He has 90% of Mark in his gospel.
And the chapter 28, I guess what I can do is just read and then you can tell me what you're seeing
here and give me the Romulus or the antecedents you might find that play a significant role in the
Matthew and post or even resurrection scene. Let's do that. Okay. And there might be stuff before
this, but I'll just start in chapter 28. Early on Sunday morning, what morning? The resurrection
morning. As the new day was dawning, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went out to visit the tomb.
Suddenly, there was a great earthquake. Stop. So you already have a prodigy and we've got a
number of prodigies and this is one of these sub things. I've got like, I don't know, 10 or 11
of them listed early in the book. And one of them are these, you'd have a thunderclap, an earthquake,
darkness over the land. These are the kinds of things that, you know, major like, you know,
the kinds of seismic, you know, Richter scale sorts of events that would signal a prodigy is
taking place. Something significant is about to happen. And that's related to specifically
related to translation. You find that in many places related to translated figures covered in
book. And oftentimes those translated figures have the birth narratives that also show that
kind of stuff. It's really interesting. Yes. Suhtoni is talking about. Exactly. Suddenly,
there was a great earthquake for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven, rolled aside the stone
and sat on it. Do you want me to keep going? Yeah, go ahead. His face shown like lightning
and his clothing was as white as snow. The guards shook with fear. Okay, stop. You've got fear again,
you know, just just wanted to signal that carry on. There's another major piece here that I want to
get to guard shook with fear when they saw him and they fell into a dead faint. Then the angel spoke
to the woman that don't be afraid. He said, I know you're looking for Jesus who was crucified.
He isn't here. He has risen from the dead just as he said would happen. Come see where his body
was lying. Okay, stop. How did he get out of the tomb? The stone, I mean, many have studied this,
right? The stone is an encasing stone over the chamber or the sepulchre. So it's sealed, right?
I mean, that's that's pretty much the interpretation. So how in the heck did he get out of there?
If he's just a raised figure, in other words, his body came back to life,
how in the heck would he get out of that thing? And so a lot of people would suppose, oh, well,
he's a wonder worker. And so he just did one of his magic tricks and got out of there. Well,
the ability to walk through walls, the ability to appear, disappear, these are the abilities of
the gods in the classical ancient world. And so how did he get out of it? That itself is a
translation signal. His body had been transformed such that he was able to exit the tomb without
even needing to move the stone. And so, yeah. And now go quickly and tell the disciples that he
has risen from the dead and he is going ahead of you to Galilee. You will see him there. Remember
what I have told you, the women ran quickly from the tomb. They were very frightened, but also
filled with great joy. And they rushed to give the disciples the angels message. Stop. Okay. There
it's continuing kind of the same kind of freighter cargo that you see in Mark, those same themes of
going ahead to Galilee, that people were afraid, you're going to hear the story there. And so he's
definitely continuing. Matthew wants to show alignment with the Mark and narrative.
And I think it's interesting that they go to, they're going to go tell them,
and they went, Jesus met them and greeted them and they random grasped his feet and worshiped him.
Stop. Yeah. Yeah. Now, why do we need to do that? The grabbing of the feet? Okay, that's
physicality. So that this is not a ghost. You couldn't grab the feet of a ghost in the ancient
world. And there are many, you've got all sorts of stories of that in the ancient world where people
try to grasp ghosts and they just kind of like wisps of error that they cannot touch and this
kind of thing. And so a lot of this touching and feeling and stuff that you're going on
that we're going to see in the Gospels here is evidence that what they were trying to say was
that this is the body of a God. It can walk through walls, but at the same time eat broiled fish.
Okay, let's carry on. So it goes on and says they worshiped him, which is another sign.
That's a big one. Why is worship the appropriate reaction at that moment?
Well, and that's the correct reaction to a translation. No one worshiped Lazarus when
he came out of his tomb. You don't see a Lazarus cult, right? Right. Yeah, there's nothing there,
nothing. He just goes on and dies again, right? That's not a translation. That's a resuscitation,
so to speak. Here we've got a translation. The correct response then would be that he has become,
in fact, a God and is an exalted figure. Then Jesus said to them, don't be afraid. Go tell
my brothers to leave for Galilee and they will see me there. As the women were on their way,
some of the guards went into the city and told the leading priest what had happened.
A meeting with the elders was called and they decided to give the soldiers a large bribe.
They told the soldiers, you must say Jesus' disciples came during the night
while we were sleeping and they stole his body. Stop. This is great. I'd love to get those guys
on this channel and see the interview there. Let's see if we could get into a time machine
or something like that. That alternative count would be very fascinating and I think would be
revealing of what likely really happened. There is this alternate account and it's the mundane
story. Lots of times, in fact, this is one of my 10 or 11 sub-themes that there is a dubious
alternative. Again, it's usually presented as dubious, but actually it's the mundane
account of what really happened. The senators really actually tore Romulus in pieces and
walked away with his body in the folds of their garment. That's what actually happened.
But in this case, they came and stole his body. That's what really happened.
But that's not the story we're going to tell. The one story we're going to tell is the exalted one
because we're exalting his memory. We're not going to tell something disgraceful like that.
Wow. Okay. And then it says they told the soldiers, you must say that they stole the body,
disciples did. If the governor hears about it, we'll stand up for you so you won't get in trouble.
So the guards accepted the bribe and said that what they were told to say, their story spread
widely among the Jews and they still tell it today. Then the 11 disciples...
Stop. Yeah. Here, maybe you could say something. You just made a profound point when we were off
camera about what was going on in the psychology of these guards. If that was a historical moment
at all. Yeah. So for me, it's like what Christian apologists do is they say, well, why would they
die? I mean, they obviously wouldn't die for something they knew wasn't true. They went to
their deaths for this because they have witnesses who saw the resurrected Lord or whatever their
example apologetic is. Here you have eyewitnesses who saw an angel roll a stone and a resurrected
Jesus who's like back from the dead that they're supposed to guard. And a bribe is going to convince
them to remain silent about this. Thank you. This would have rocked their minds had it been an
actual ontologically real moment. Right. This would have blown their minds at something like this
and they would have been endlessly hysterical about trying to tell people what had happened there.
They would not have been... They would not have been bribable. Right. Yeah. And so, and I know
there's arguments made that if they, you know, they were put on duty and they would have gotten
trouble ahead, they, you know... I would have thought that if that really is something they saw
using the same apologetic argument, they would have died by the governor for this. Right. That
had been a more believable story that even the guards were willing to die because they weren't
going to lie. The governor didn't believe their story. They went to their deaths as martyrs because
of the truth or something. Or they stood their ground on the story. Geez. They folded like
instantly. Yeah. How much? 20 denarii. All right. Yeah. Come on, man. It's a little ridiculous,
is my opinion. Yeah. So anyway, that's Matthew pretty much. I mean, it does go down and what's
interesting is it talks about the 11, Leffer Galilee going to the mountain where Jesus had
stopped. That's also a mountaintop speech is also a motif across the translation Fable Tapas. And so,
that outlined in my book, come by my book. You got to get the book. When they saw him,
they worshiped him. But some of them doubted. Is there a tradition of doubt? So, some of them
doubted. Now, I think that's a, they're having to explain that this was not a unanimous kind of
effort to exalt Jesus through translation. This wasn't across the board. There were people that
did not take that perspective. And so, you can see there, it's trying to admit that everyone's not
in lockstep. Some Christians don't have our view of this. If you read critically through that,
I think that's the interpretation that behind the scenes, you're dealing with a community that
was not all on board with this particular way of exalting Jesus. And so, what was the other part
of it? You said that they worshiped him. They worshiped him. Now, that definitely is another
translation signal. No one worshiped any of the other raised figures. So, what's happening?
It is interesting that those who worshiped, some of those doubted. So, yeah, community kind of
concept. And we're not doing German Romanticism here as Robin has been critically written apart.
But there is this a sense in which, I wrote my article that's like the minimal doubts argument
is suggesting that this might be the tip of saying like, hey, some of the community here
aren't sure what they saw or aren't sure. They doubt what is being presented in the same manner.
So, the way that you're describing that isn't quite the way I was trying to write the doubt
argument. But it's still the idea that some of the early Christians did not
fall in line and just hook line a secret, accept the message that was being presented,
which makes me wonder, like, why not? I thought they all saw this dude who really rose from the dead.
I thought they all literally believed this actually happened. What the heck is going on?
It's a messy diversity. You're dealing with a really early, messy kind of picture there. And
they're trying to piece that together, I think. And there's doubt. There's other perspectives
going on. It's not all clear. By the time you get Matthew's composition, it's still not clear.
So then he just says, Jesus came and told his disciples, I've been given all authority in
heaven and earth. Therefore, go make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of
the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit. Teach these new disciples to obey all commands I have given
you. And be sure of this. I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Yeah. Well, okay.
That's straight out a Romulus, right? So, he gives to Julius Proculus his own great commission.
Go ye therefore into all the world and tell the world about how great the Romans are and
teach them the way of the Romans and then their military might, etc.
So, there's a different kind of motif there, but it's the same kind of, it's a great commission
given at the end of the individual's career. I hope you liked my dad Richard Miller in this
interview. Remember to like and subscribe and never forget, we are Miss Vision.
