Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon, not only to support us, but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon, early access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars, and you're helping MythVision grow.
We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
Matthew Teason, author of Jesus and the Forces of Death, ladies and gentlemen.
He is a professor at, is it McMaster University?
That's correct, yep.
So I'm really excited about this conversation. Our last episode pertaining to Paul, you know, we could have gone on forever with that guy.
But I think it's interesting to get to the man himself, the King of Kings, Lord of Lords, Jesus and the Gospels.
Your book, once again, you don't start off saying, I'm going to tell you the historical Jesus.
People can glean from this, though, and potentially make a hypothetical case as to what kind of guy this might have been if you're trying to do historical studies on Jesus.
But you're not trying to do that. So I recommend everybody get the book, because we're going to get into something more complex that I have a hard time tracking without someone like you explaining.
The Forces of Death. I wonder what that is. So we have a Jewish man named Jesus, who's claiming to fulfill the law according to the Gospels.
Well, in order to do that, you've got to kind of do what the law says, it seems, and take us into what you've discovered about Jesus and the Gospels and how it relates to the Torah.
Yeah. Like Paul, huge discussions, holy discussions have swirled around Jesus and Judaism, Jesus and the law.
And not surprisingly, for most of Christian history, church history and Christian theologizing, the conclusion has been that Jesus came and abandoned Judaism,
showed the laws or relevance or whatever word you want, a negative word you want to use there.
And especially around things like the temple and ritual impurity.
And so scholars will point, one of the very first stories of Jesus doing a deed of power.
It's really the second in the Gospel of Mark is Jesus and what all English translations unfortunately refer to as a leper, which is from Leviticus 13 and 14.
It's a ritual impurity and Jesus heals the man and everybody thinks, well, look, Jesus is showing the laws powerless.
Look what he can do.
Don't worry about ritual impurity, which is sort of to my mind, not even sort of to my mind is is absurdly missing the point of this story.
And so when I was when I was writing my dissertation, oh my, quite a while ago now, over 10 years ago, I was reading quite a bit about ritual impurity from Jacob Milgram,
who pointed out there are sort of three basic categories or three basic sources, I should say, of ritual impurity.
This leprosy lepra is the real is the Greek word in the Gospels.
And it just refers to a variety of pretty minor skin conditions, genital discharges of blood and semen and then corpses.
And, you know, I was reading through Milgram on this and thinking about this.
And I realized, wait a minute, Jesus deals with all three sources of impurity in the Gospels, at least in the synoptic Gospels.
John's a little bit of a different, different thing.
And I realized at the end of every incident where Jesus meets someone who has a general discharge, it only happens once, but it happens in Matthew, Mark and Luke.
It's the same story we told where wherever Jesus bumps into someone who has the skin condition lepra.
And whenever he bumps into a corpse, at the end of the scene, the person no longer has this condition.
That doesn't seem like he thinks ritual impurity is irrelevant or unimportant.
It seems like the Gospel writers are saying, Jesus is so powerful, he's able to overcome these ritual impurities that are real, and they exist, and they need to be dealt with.
And that story of the man with lepra in Mark 1, Mark puts it really clearly to my mind.
The man comes to Jesus and says, if you want to, if you wish to, if you desire, you can make me pure.
And Jesus responds saying, I desire or I want to be pure.
And so it seems like the story revolves around, quite interestingly,
not a question of whether Jesus is powerful enough to do this, whether he cares enough to do this, whether this matters to him.
And so this short little story in Mark is really about Jesus' desire to get rid of ritual impurity.
And I think that tracks through repeatedly through the Gospel stories and even into John, where Jesus at least raises some corpses.
I think the image on the front of your book is an interesting one because they got little dots.
The guys on the right side have all these little dots on their skin, and then you have Jesus and the Apostles on the other side.
And I do think it's interesting how he constantly does go to the poor and the sinners.
It's a really interesting thing, the unpure, but this goes into Leviticus and the holiness codes that we see there.
So if you could tell us a little bit about some of these examples, even like the woman who, I can't remember her condition,
but she touches the hymn of his rope, like this goes into the Old Testament.
And you see an interesting thing here.
I'm not sure any other scholars are discussing this the way that you are.
Yeah, a few have, but I've tried to make some of that a little more popular and a little clearer, I think.
The hemorrhaging woman, which Mark tells us about, and then Matthew and Luke repeat the story in slightly different ways.
All it says is she's a woman who had a hemorrhage for 12 years, or a flow of blood for 12 years.
That evokes the language of Leviticus 15.
And Leviticus 15 is all about general discharges of blood and semen and the ritual impurity and how to become pure once one has it.
There are regular types of discharges, like sex, nocturnal emissions, menstruation, and childbirth, which occurs in Leviticus 12.
But then there are abnormal, what we would consider to be a medical condition.
And a woman who's got a flow of vaginal blood for 12 years, this is an abnormal condition, a medical condition, we would call it.
12 years she's had this in later rabbinic thinking, this is one of the strongest forms of impurity.
In fact, the three strongest forms are corpses, lepra, and a woman discharger, what's called a zavah in Hebrew.
And Jesus deals with all three.
She comes to Jesus, no one's been able to heal her, and she touches not his body, but his clothing.
And in Matthew, it's actually the tassels, the teeth seat of Jesus's garment.
And in Mark, in Luke, she's immediately healed.
Jesus doesn't even have a choice, in other words.
In Matthew, Jesus turns around and then proclaims her healed and she's healed.
But in Mark and Luke, it's almost like when you've rubbed your feet on a carpet and walked up and touched someone, it just zaps out electricity.
And that's how I take Mark.
Jesus is sort of this natural force that even when touched, he automatically shoots out this purifying power that removes this 12 year condition that no one has been able to heal.
So it's not only that Jesus desires to heal, he's sort of organically or innately healing his body.
And so Mark starts out his gospel with Jesus being called the Holy One of God.
And I take it that Mark thinks Jesus is walking around and has this power of holiness in him that just shoots out into the world
and does what holiness can do and that's remove impurity at the end of the day.
I think this is interesting to ask in light of this.
Your title says he is going and facing the forces of death.
What do you mean by that?
Because some might actually interpret that and go like, okay, some people will maybe even anti-Semites,
if you will, the people that will come on and say the Jews were children of Satan and they want to try and play that kind of thing.
But what do you mean by death in your title?
Because from what I understand, the way they saw the law is the wages of sin are death, like actual death,
not just like in some way a spiritual death.
They thought Adam and Eve caused death, actual mortality to enter the world.
But there's different ways to look at this.
So how do you look at it?
Yeah, so Milgrim and other scholars, Christine Hayes, Jonathan Clauens and a whole host of scholars of ancient Judaism and Hebrew Bible have talked about ritual impurity
and tried to figure out why these, I mentioned the three sources, lepros, general discharges and corpses.
What connects them?
Is there a rationale or is this just sort of some, you know, some sort of relics of taboo here?
And Milgrim argues there's an underlying logic.
Each of these is in some way connected to death.
Corpses, that's kind of obvious, right?
Dead bodies, not hard.
Lepra, there are a couple of places, including in Numbers when Moses's sister Miriam contracts Lepra because she criticizes Moses.
And then in later rabbinic literature and in Josephus, who's writing around the same time the Gospel writers are writing,
there's an association of this skin condition with death in corpses.
It's this white, skilly condition that looks kind of corpse-like.
And it gets sort of associated with the realm of death.
In general, discharges of blood and semen while blood in particular is life or the container of life according to Leviticus 17.
And so the loss of it might sort of point towards the loss of life force and semen is concocted blood in ancient science.
So it too was connected to the loss of life force.
So this is how Milgrim talks about it.
All of these things you can't bring into the tabernacle or temple.
If you have these conditions, you can't go.
And you have to be purified before you do go because they're, and this sort of other scholars point to more,
little less about death and more about human mortality.
You don't bring human mortality into God's presence.
God's immortal.
There has to be sort of a sharp distinction between the two.
And so I think when the gospel writers are depicting Jesus in this way, removing these impurities,
they're thinking along these lines about ritual impurity representing death as Jesus in this apocalyptic battle with these little forces of death that have invaded human beings,
removing them, setting them back on the path to life as this larger vision of Jesus as the one who conquers death.
Of course, for the gospel writers, this he conquers death in his own resurrection and being raised from the dead.
But all along he's doing this throughout the gospels at strategic points when he when he bumps into these death forces.
Before we get to the next topic in this vein, I want to ask is the temple's destruction,
which is obviously, to me, a clear literary motif that the end is about to happen,
according to Mark, whoever this author we call Mark is.
It's pretty obvious he has a huge, there's a big motivation in him incorporating the destruction of the temple.
Do you think that maybe some of the ritual impurity stuff you've looked into might play into this role of the temples no longer around
and that this may play a significant role theologically or somehow mimetically here in Mark?
Yeah, so I think for all the gospel writers, the temple's been destroyed in history.
When they're writing, it's gone.
And so one of the things they're trying to account for is this is where God is located.
And the gospel writers make it clear that they actually believe God inhabited this temple.
Israel's God, the one true God inhabited this temple, one of the one supreme God inhabited this temple.
How did it disappear? How did it get destroyed by a bunch of pagans out of Rome?
And so they want to make it clear that this wasn't unexpected.
Jesus had maybe already even pointed to this possibility.
But I don't think it's necessarily, and this is how it, again, how these gospels often get read,
that there's sort of this contest of, well, now that Jesus is here and he's the Holy One of God,
in the Tabernacle also gets referred to as the Holy Place of God, the Holy Thing of God.
And so does the priest, the High Priest gets referred to as the Holy One of God.
I think you could view it and most have as sort of a competition.
It's one or the other.
And now that Jesus has come, the temple's irrelevant, it's destroyed.
God's left a building and now he's out there in Jesus.
Very black and white.
Yep. That I think is really interesting argument because I think it sort of requires or implies that God can only inhabit one thing at a time.
That there has to be a competition, in other words.
And there is a ton of work being done on God's bodies in antiquity.
Benjamin Summer has written a book that I have found particularly helpful, but there are other people,
and others working on this, who point out that ancient gods could often inhabit multiple places, even at the same time.
So I don't think it has to be competitive and I don't think.
Luke, for instance, is a great example of this.
Mark's a little harder, I think, because it ends with the curtain in the temple being ripped and Jesus, well, disappearing from the tomb.
What does that mean that the temple curtain is ripped?
Is that a sign that it's destroyed, useless, outdated?
I think that's not the easiest thing to determine.
Luke read Mark and didn't conclude that, though, because after Luke's gospel ends, acts begins.
And where do Jesus' followers go?
Over and over and over again, they're going to the temple.
Constantly, even Paul in Acts 21 goes to the temple and performs purification rites there.
And so I don't think, I'll put it this way.
I know, certainly, based on Luke, that not all early believers Jesus thought,
oh, now that Jesus is the locus of God's presence, that means the temple can't possibly be anymore.
Maybe some concluded that, but others didn't and thought God could inhabit the temple.
And this new movement as well.
I think that's interesting.
You brought up the whole, he did go and do the ritual impurity stuff.
So why is he there if this Jesus movement is in conflict with the temple?
That makes no sense if they're going to have both.
So that's a fascinating point you bring up.
Let me know what you guys think in the description.
So he's in this world of ritual impurity and you have a few chapters I maybe could ask you to, like, recap for our audience.
Jesus is walking, Jesus and the walking dead.
What did you do here?
It reminds me of the show, The Walking Dead.
I really liked it.
That was the point.
Anything to sell a book, right?
Really, anything to get my argument out there.
Because I think my argument, I think these arguments are important.
But I don't mind some pocket change.
So this is all about lepros, the skin condition that often gets referred to as leprosy.
It's not leprosy.
It really is not leprosy.
And I think if you read the chapter, hopefully that convinces you, it's not.
These are a series of minor skin conditions, like think eczema or dandruff.
More than, you know, for those of us who, you know, grew up going to Sunday school or whatever, thinking about leprosy.
You know, we're always told things about limbs falling off and how deeply contagious and everything else it is.
Even leprosy isn't as contagious as we were taught.
All that aside, don't think like deeply debilitating disease.
Think minor medical conditions.
But minor.
So minor, this is what I think is so important.
When we think leprosy in an awful condition, you know, something that's analogous to like cancer or whatever.
It's very easy, I think, to read these miracle stories and think, well, of course Jesus is a nice guy.
And he's got the power.
He's going to heal people with these awful illnesses.
But as soon as you flip it and realize it's not about an awful illness, it's about really a minor condition.
Why is Jesus wasting time on something akin to eczema?
I'm not saying it is eczema, but it's akin to eczema.
Something that's like not...
Well, eczema can be, you know, a very difficult condition.
But I think that's not the most pressing medical condition out in the ancient world.
Why is Jesus dealing with this?
And that's when the sort of switch flips and you realize this is actually about ancient conceptions of ritual impurity.
And this one man, Jesus removes his lepra and Luke, Luke adds a story about a whole bunch of leperoi who Jesus heals.
In Mark, the story in Matthew and Luke following it, Matthew, they all end the story with Jesus saying to the man,
you've been made pure, now go to the priest.
Show him that you're made pure and offer what Moses commands.
That's just as law-observant as it gets.
This is not Jesus.
Forget the law.
It's old, it's stupid, it's anything.
I'm here, it's new now.
It's do what's required of you.
In fact, the priest is the only one who can declare someone's clean.
After they, they can never make a person clean.
No one can.
No human can.
Only God.
Only God.
And he does that through Elisha in the Old Testament and then Jesus in the Gospels.
But it's always this divine action that happens.
Priests can't prescribe here to go do these five things and then it's gone.
All they can do is say, it's gone, now go do these purification rites after the fact.
And Jesus sends the man to go do these things after the fact.
There is so much, I'm already hearing you say, that is making me think about re-evaluating
so much of the things we were raised to read when we read these things, how to understand them.
I think there's a lot more to this and this is why I enjoy scholarships such as yourself.
Real quick, I thought, why not bring up the idea of social identity?
Because social identity plays a role.
Isn't it the case in that one with the leprosy, all these different people who are being healed,
the one who comes back to thank him wasn't even a Jew?
No.
Yeah, it's a Samaritan who comes back.
And of course, Samaritans and Jews at the time didn't get along so well, both ways.
Right.
They neither liked each other too much.
So it's interesting that it appears that there's this group of lepers who are hanging out together,
one of whom is a Samaritan.
And then of course, when Jesus says, in Luke, he says, go to the priest too to show yourselves.
Well, where's the Samaritan going to?
Is he going to go to Jerusalem in the Jerusalem temple?
No, because he doesn't think that's where God resides.
That's at Gerozine.
But Gerozine's temple is in ruins.
So I don't know.
You know, the Samaritans, I've read a bit.
I don't know a ton about still.
There are scholars working on Samaritans sort of extensively.
What kind of practices would there have been Samaritan priests?
Would he have had to travel all the way back to Samaria to get that sort of priestly declaration?
Yeah, you've been made pure.
But then how is he going to go through these rights of purification if the Samaritan temple isn't functioning?
Is certain things still happening on site?
I guess I don't know.
But yeah.
Yeah, he comes to Jesus, though.
So it's an interesting thing.
Unlike all the other guys, it's like, plus he does the good Samaritan deeds.
You know, there's some interesting stuff I think in social identity we can jab at.
But all right, so Jesus and the dead womb.
Tell us about this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this has to do with the hemorrhaging woman.
Okay.
So we've kind of covered this.
Yeah.
This is a woman.
If she's got a genital hemorrhage, she's not able to get pregnant and give birth.
And, you know, we can't make perfect assumptions about whether everybody in antiquity, all ancient women wanted to get pregnant.
Probably not.
But if she did, this would have been, it wouldn't just have been a source of frustration that she's constantly in a state of ritual impurity.
She's also unable to give birth.
Potentially, depending on how one reads it, can't have sex with her husband if she's married.
And so there are a whole host of consequences that this woman's enduring because of her state of ritual impurity.
And Jesus sort of cleans them all up, so to speak.
Interesting.
Jesus and the dead.
He obviously, multiple miracles throughout the synoptics.
And John, of course, the most explicitly, but maybe we stick with whatever you would prefer to discuss.
What's the deal with the dead and raising the dead?
So again, it's in this time the corpses can't speak for themselves and some don't speak at all.
Sometimes nobody speaks for them, but Jesus upon seeing, anytime he sees a corpse, the corpse no longer is a corpse.
Which again, a priest can't raise a corpse.
It never happens.
Now, of course, Elijah and Elisha raise corpses.
So it's not without precedence.
And I think the gospel readers are trying to sort of evoke Elisha and Elijah.
But again, they're showing that here's a source of ritual impurity.
Sometimes this has massive social consequences.
In Luke, there's the son of a widow.
So this is a woman who's lost any means to survive.
Customary means to survive.
And Jesus bumps into them and, you know, promptly raises the man from the dead.
What's so interesting about the gospel depictions, if you think Mark is first, which I do, and then Matthew, and then Luke, and then maybe John 4th, is that you get, over time, these stories, just like when one goes fishing, I don't fish.
But the fish seem to grow after they die.
These stories are snowballing and becoming more and more impressive.
In Mark, Jesus raises a young girl from the dead and she's just died.
In Matthew, she's already dead and she's been dead a little while.
In Luke, there's this son of this widow who's on his way to being buried.
So it's later.
It's been dead a little longer.
Those forces of death have started to decompose the body.
And in John, of course, we got Lazarus, who's a stinking corpse.
But he has, decomposition has set in.
And each time, Jesus is able to reach further back into the jaws of death to extract someone and bring them back to life.
And of course, there's this fascinating story in the Gospel of Matthew, very odd story in the Gospel of Matthew, that at the very point that Jesus dies, corpses come back to life.
The corpses of holy ones and tombs come back to life.
But they can't come out of the tombs.
They have to sort of lurk in there for a few days until Jesus is raised, because otherwise they're given the game away.
So they're raised from the dead at the very point that Jesus becomes a corpse and you would expect him to become ritually impure.
And maybe he does.
The golf players don't delve into what they think happens there.
But at that very moment, there's this holy force that shoots out and raises dead people at the point of death, which is very wild.
And I think it's interesting, there was an ancient concept, I think, where there's like a three day period and usually the fourth day decomposition.
Like they see the fourth day Lazarus has risen.
Here you have the third day and he doesn't even get to the fourth.
It's interesting.
But there's also possible mimetic reasons for doing such things as well.
And that might be playing into it too with the resurrection of Israel and ideas in Hosea, I think it is.
There's some interesting stuff in the Hebrew Bible about three days.
Interesting.
I also see it also in other cultural writings, like in the Odyssey, you have, I think it's the Odyssey, it might be the Iliad where Hector actually is dragged around.
His body is torn into pieces, but for three days, when the father comes against the body.
So there's something in the world, I think, just kind of in the air where everybody knows something like this.
You get into the demonic impurity, right?
And this is something I find interesting.
I don't want to throw you off your horse because you're headed on a path with this particular topic.
But I do want to ask Paul, in a second, I want to get to Paul after we get into this.
But what's the deal with Jesus casting out all these demons?
We don't see him.
We don't even see if I'm not mistaken.
Elijah and Elisha are running around and people over here demon possessed.
It doesn't sound like.
So what's happening here?
Yeah, there is.
So, you know, this is a book primarily about ritual impurity, which has nothing to do with demons.
And, you know, scholars of Leviticus sometimes say Jacob Milgram, most famously, I think that there is no demonic at all in priestly thought because they're monotheists.
Well, monotheists believed and still believe many in demons and in multiple superhuman beings, demons, angels, whatever, which are just other words for lower gods at the end of the day.
But there's an explosion of demonology in early Judaism.
And sometimes these demons are called impure.
So the book of Jubilees talks about impure demons.
And then other texts do the gospel writers frequently referred to demons as impure spirits, impure Pneumata.
And so I thought, you know, this has to deal with impurity.
I should probably deal with this here as well.
It's the whole point is, I think, you know, Christianity has for a long time focused on Jesus, especially in the West.
Jesus as the one who removes, well, what ancient Jews would call moral, well, we call moral impurity.
Sin, forgiveness of sins.
And there's truth to that.
Mind you, there are very few stories about Jesus forgiving sins.
In fact, I can think of one.
And he talks about forgiveness of their times.
But repeatedly we see Jesus removing ritual impurities.
And we see Jesus removing these spiritual or demonic impurities from the world.
And so it looks very, very much to me like the gospel readers are depicting Jesus as spearheading this massive purification mission,
cleaning up the impurities that inhabit the world and that dog humans, whether they're ritual, moral or these demonic impurities.
I was thinking about a book I read on demons.
And it was actually by Michael Heiser.
Now, of course, we don't have different worldviews, but either way, it was a really interesting.
I like to learn from people and he was going into how they would send obviously their, the goat, if I'm not mistaken, it was a certain animal that would lay the sins on,
or if you will, you know, their problems onto this goat that would go out to Azazel or something.
The term that Second Temple Judaism, as you point out, starts to kind of like build upon this narrative.
This is where the wicked and the gen, if you will, in certain religions and other things, they're out in the wilderness.
Well, I see this interesting mimetic thing happen in Matthew.
And I don't know if you would agree with this kind of idea, but where Jesus, Barabbas and Jesus, here you have this really interesting scene where they're sending one out into the wilderness, so to speak,
Barabbas, Jesus, son of the father, Barabbas.
And then Jesus is being sacrificed.
And so you have kind of like this sacrifice that goes right back to Leviticus and Exodus and Deuteronomy.
And these, well, I'm now separating.
There's multiple documentary hypothesis kind of separates these sources.
But my point is, is that it's playing on this Old Testament riff, if you will.
Do you see that that in that narrative?
Parts of you.
Parts of you.
This is the day of Atonement Yom Kippur, which just passed this week.
And it's Leviticus 16.
And so there is this goat that goes out to Azazel, and we don't know what that even means in Leviticus 16.
Everybody has a different theory.
And Leviticus just doesn't care to tell us.
The priests know, maybe, and maybe they expect their initial readers to know.
And so they don't even explain it.
But we definitely see in later Jewish tradition this idea that Azazel is a demon and one of the big bad guys.
And so possibly is what it originally meant.
Definitely, the Gospel writers are, and then Paul and others are playing on atonement notions that they get from Leviticus 16 and other places.
I don't know that I'm convinced that Barabbas is the goat that goes out to Azazel.
There are two functions, right?
The one goat doesn't remove sins, it cleans up impurities.
It cleans up the Tabernacle or Temple.
Is that the one that's sacrificed?
That's the one that's offered, yeah.
It's the blood.
Sacrifice is really hard, I think, for most modern people to understand.
It's not about punishing anything.
It's about getting the blood.
So the death really accomplishes nothing.
You need it, but you need it to extract the life, the blood.
And once you have the blood, it's the blood that serves as what people have called a ritual detergent.
To clean up the Tabernacle, to clean up the altars, to remove the impurities that are building up there.
The goat for Azazel is a goat that the sins, the burdens are placed on it and then it just leaves.
So it's viewed not as a detergent, but as, you know, it's like sending our trash out into space.
It's removing the sins as far as one can possibly do from the tent of Israel.
What happens to it out there?
I mean, obviously, a goat out in the wilderness isn't going to last,
especially if it's a relatively domesticated goat.
It's not going to last particularly long.
So perhaps the fact that it gets eaten and destroyed suggests that the sins get destroyed and consumed and they're gone.
But the point is really to like physically distance there.
And I don't think in the Gospels, Barabbas plays that role.
It's interesting that Jesus is casting out these demons.
And I thought about the point you're bringing up about monotheists who believe in spirits.
Really, I like how Paula Fredrickson talks about this heenotheism.
You know, she's like, it's technically it is monotheism.
It's just the idea that there are other powers, not that like there's only one thing and that's it.
And there's another, you know, they have a different concept.
I guess heenotheism better suits it.
But as far as Paul, and this is where I was going with this.
A lot of people who do historical studies on Jesus to try and know like what, where's it was there?
A guy, a mythicist, right?
And then historicists who were like, there was definitely a guy.
Who was he?
What did he do?
And other people have different things.
There's really all sorts of theories out there.
The question is, is like, why doesn't Paul and maybe you can correct me on this?
Why doesn't he say Jesus was this miracle worker?
He doesn't talk about any of that in his letters.
And maybe we're missing letters.
That could be the case.
Maybe we just don't have him talk about.
Maybe that's not what mattered to Paul.
I mean, kind of an argument from silence, but what do you think?
Yeah, it's a great question.
You know, Paul seems virtually uninter in the letters.
So you're right.
Maybe he wrote other letters.
I doubt it.
I guess that mentioned this maybe.
But of course, these are just like, these are rhetorically and polemically focused communications from Paul.
So at the very least, he doesn't care in these contexts to talk about really anything about Jesus's life.
Up until right before he dies, and then he dies, and then he's raised.
We get he's born of a woman born under the law and Galatians.
Maybe an illusion to a teaching about divorce.
And then we get the, what Christians call the words of the institution of the Lord's Supper, Eucharist, even whatever.
The other thing else is just died, died on a cross was raised.
There's very little else.
And so for whatever reason, Paul doesn't seem to care.
It's interesting you asked about the miracles in particular because Paul depicts himself as a miracle worker on a number of occasions.
And this is something that Jennifer Isle has written about.
It's really important for Paul that he's a wonder worker.
It's interesting that he doesn't maybe, you know, connect his wonder working to a previous wonder worker named Jesus, but he doesn't.
What do you think about the phrase in Paul where he talks about like, I'm filling up the suffering that ladder in Christ.
That's, I mean, Christians would not like this.
I'm just saying like, not all.
I have very good friends, Ian Mills, for example, PhD candidate Duke University, you probably heard of him.
Really cool guy.
He's a Christian.
And we've talked and off air, I'm like, bro, you just said that like what was expected and what was prophesied didn't happen.
Like how do you reconcile that?
I was a fundamentalist Christian for many years.
I know you can go ahead and tell me I'm sorry.
But I was seriously like extremely conservative if I could use the term and that would not fit in my theology because Christ's death burial resurrection was enough.
Paul doesn't have to fill up the suffering that lacked in Christ.
So how do you reconcile that?
Or what do you think is going on there?
Yeah.
So this, this connects back to Paul and this goes back to sort of being penetrated, injected with the Messiah spirit.
If you're injected with the Messiah spirit and this spirit lives in you and Paul says uses this language in Galatians.
It's not Paul living anymore.
It's the Messiah living in Paul.
And so that sharp distinction and this is, I know for some, probably most Christians, this is uncomfortable.
But I think this is Paul's thinking and I think acts has similar thinking.
Luke has similar thinking.
If you're injected with the Messiah, you're organically connected to the Messiah.
You are an appendage in a very real material way.
You were a body part, which is Paul uses this language.
People take it as a metaphor.
I don't think there's anything metaphorical about it, like zero metaphor here.
Or metaphor in a sense.
I never know what metaphor means and no one really does and people write really technical metaphor about metaphor books that really I don't understand.
It's this is not some like just symbolic thing.
Paul thinks if the Messiah's spirit is in you, you might be a finger, a toe, a nose, whatever, but you are truly connected to the Messiah.
And so there's something messianic about you, which is why later Christians get called Christians.
They're like little Christs, which is something Canada Moss has talked about.
They're a little messianic people bumping around now and a whole bunch of them.
And so when Paul suffers, well, suffers for the right reason, which he thinks he is.
It's actually just an extension of the Messiah's suffering.
Right.
And so that's Colossians, which what Paul wrote it or not, who knows, I'm pretty conflicted on it.
But even in Galatians, he talks about having the stigmata of Jesus on his body, bearing in his own body the stigmata of Jesus, which is, you know, that's a pretty bold claim to make.
You know, and it certainly has a rhetorical power to it if you believe it.
But he thinks he's just a bearing.
He is a Messiah bearer out there.
And what happens to him is happening to the Messiah.
So when we get in Acts, Acts is a great example.
When Jesus appears to Saul on the road to Damascus, Jesus says, why are you persecuting me?
Right.
Well, he's not persecuting Jesus, who's dead, raised in heaven in in Acts's mind or Luke's mind, but he's persecuting believers.
And since they're the body of Jesus physically on earth in flesh and blood bodies, it's just what happens to them is happening also to Jesus.
Okay, okay.
So we're going to we're going to start getting close to to a close here.
I must ask you a few interesting questions I've collected for a while.
I've been waiting to ask you for these just to get your thoughts because I love getting scholarship.
Matthew 10 and Matthew 15 have this very interesting phrase.
And he says, do not go in the way of the Gentiles.
Do not enter any city of the Samaritans, but rather go only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And then he says, I came only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel, Matthew 15.
However, and I'm just jumping over.
I don't want to get stuck in John yet, but in Luke and John in his ministry during his life, he is engaging with Samaritans.
So I think the later Gospels already having this happen.
Maybe John and Luke have a different agenda in the narrative, but either way, what does who are the lost sheep of the house of Israel?
Are they the Jews and Matthew?
Yeah, I do think so.
And, you know, Matthew, I'm not sure if Matthew mentioned Samaritans.
I can't remember off the top of my head.
Matthew 10, yeah, don't go to the city of the Samaritans.
Luke likes Samaritans.
The question is Samaritans are tricky, right?
They're sort of a hybrid people.
According to Jewish tradition, they're a mix of Israel and non-Israelites.
And they worship Israel's God, claim to be Israel, do pretty much all the same things or many of the same things as Jews,
apart from primarily the temple where they worship, the location where they worship.
So Luke might be of the opinion that Samaritans are, well, close enough to Israel or the Jews,
or maybe even part of Israel on some level that they're included in this group.
Luke has no desire for Jesus to bump into Gentiles until really Acts 10.
That's where there's the big movement to the Gentile world.
And so I think the Samaritans, I think it's safe to say they're on the border.
And Luke maybe knows, maybe doesn't know exactly where to fit them in that Jew-Gentile binary,
or maybe he thinks they're part of that sort of larger concept of Israel.
And so he mentions them earlier than Acts 10.
And Matthew seems to draw a very sharp line until the death and resurrection.
After that, it's go ahead guys, head on out to the nations, go to everyone, do this, four corners of the earth.
That leads me to one final thing in light of this whole issue.
The prodigal son parable, how do you interpret this?
Because from what I understand, and I'm going to throw one out there at you and tell me if you think this is like the spaghetti sticking on the wall or not,
I like to hypothesize, I think it's okay, we should, because I'm not a dogmatist.
I'd really like to be flexible.
Jesus talks about this prodigal son who goes, both are sons of the same father.
One seems to be obviously the Jews.
They've kept the law, they stayed in the father's house, they kept doing what they're supposed to do.
The one that gets lost to me seems to be Samaritans.
And I know a lot of people will want to put themselves in this parable.
That's okay, because parables are good like that, like they're just kind of narrative forms describing something.
I have felt like a prodigal son in my own life at times when I was addicted to drugs.
I'm a recovering drug addict.
So I've come back and there's a way I could analogize and make that part of my narrative.
But in the context of the prodigal son and the good Samaritan pops up and different things like that,
Josephus talks about this issue and struggle between both groups, Jews and Samaritans.
Do you think it's very likely that the Samaritan fits this prodigal son motif?
What are your thoughts?
I'm not an expert on that parable.
I defer to others.
I think it's hard to know.
I mean, there are multiple contexts here.
What does it mean within the context of Luke's gospel?
Did Jesus say this parable in some form?
Did it mean something different then?
So I think there are multiple potential ways to take it and maybe that's how it's meant.
I think initially, sort of within the context of the gospel,
I don't think it's about Gentiles in particular at that moment.
It might be, but I think it's about God's people who have strayed.
Whether that's God's people who are Jews or Northern tribes who are in exile, for instance,
or the Samaritans, I think it's hard to know in Luke.
Maybe that's the point, that Luke doesn't want to narrow it and define it so tightly that it doesn't apply elsewhere.
Maybe it's a bit of a broader principle that Luke's trying to get across
that could apply in multiple historical contexts.
Wonderful. Thank you.
Once again, Matthew Teeson.
No.
I got it right.
Seriously, everybody, please, I asked that you guys go get the book.
The newest book right now is hot off the, I mean, like this is right off the press.
It'll come to your house still warm, okay?
And once you touch it, if you have eczema, it'll leave.
You won't have any brashes that remain everything.
I mean, it's got a radiation force coming off this book.
Seriously, though, I highly recommend it.
I have my own version, my own copy of this.
Get the book.
If you guys like it, I can always bring Dr. Teeson back and we can ask questions.
We can do something further, but we got to make it worth it, okay?
We got to give him a few shekels.
I know some of you are the lady who only had one or two shekels.
I get it, but that's what counts.
Seriously, though, getting this knowledge out and letting more people understand the scholarship in the field,
that's what MythVision is all about.
I want you guys to see from different perspectives and understand why people think the way they do.
So go check out the book.
And if you like what we're doing here, you can join my Patreon.
You guys can go and find out, you know, what I'm doing.
There's going to be like 72 videos that I've recently done with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
I've had Richard Carrier on.
I've got a next month, I'm going to Dr. Del C. Allison up at Princeton University.
I'm going to be interviewing him for a whole day.
If you're a Patreon member, I can try and get your question asked on a high definition video.
I love this stuff, and I hope you love it too.
Dr. Teeson, thank you so much for joining me.
Maybe we can do this again sometime.
Sure, thanks. This is great.
Do you have anything you'd like to say finally to our audience?
I'm all good. Thanks for listening.
Absolutely. Never forget, we are MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us,
but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier.
All on the Patreon, early access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars
and you're helping MythVision grow.
