...
Dr. Dell Allison, I really appreciate it having you here.
I cannot begin to read the totality of what Dr. James D. Tabor had to say in his question
like pointing out, but to give the idea, he's saying the earliest sources we have, Paul.
Paul talked about a spiritual body, he defines it in a way that it's different from the physical
body as a seed is from, you know the quote.
The idea is that Paul's resurrection or the Jesus resurrection in Paul is some type of
kind of body, not this flesh and blood corpse, literally physically kind of concept and we see
a Galilee tradition in Mark and Matthew where that's where they're supposed to go and even
when they do, some of the 11 doubt, they're sitting there doubting on what they're seeing.
If this was a flesh and blood body, would they be sitting there doubting?
These are just questions as I'm asking this.
So we see the tradition, Luke and John come later and they really want to nail down,
he ate with us, he touched my body, it's real, it's physical and Dr. Tabor is suggesting,
as I know other scholars do, this is definitely an apologetic against critics who are probably
trying to say, you just saw a ghost or this isn't true. We see that hinted at, this is not a ghost,
this is not like, and John and Luke make it literal physical, like they really want to
emphasize that. So I think Tabor is saying there's a disconnect and the tradition has,
the legend, if you will, has developed. Can you tell us your thoughts?
Okay, well, first of all, I argue in the book for a visionary understanding of the appearances
and I think, if I understand the question,
that I agree with you that the original experiences or encounters are visionary and also that the
stories in Luke and John are a bit different, but you have to be careful here. So if you look
at Matthew's Gospel, we actually get the story of the rock being rolled away, but Jesus doesn't
walk out, it's not like the Gospel of Peter, he's actually gone before the stone is rolled away.
And Martin Luther pointed out, this means that if there wasn't a back exit, he actually has
somehow gone through the rock or popped out, I mean, he does have a magical non-physical body,
it can go through matter somehow. And Paul's experiences in Acts are certainly visionary
and in some way he lines them up with the experiences of others before him. I do say in
the book that I am incurably skeptical about finding history in the stories in John and Luke
insofar as they emphasize the physicality. But I still think the stories in Luke and John are
descendants of a proto-commissioning to the Twelve and I think Matthew is related. So what's
happened is it's become more physical in the process and it does appear to me that Luke
especially has the view that John Calvin later had. John Calvin had the view that Jesus, when he
rose from the dead, rose in this sort of this body and remains to this day a physical being.
But you have to be careful with John because John is not like Calvin. Calvin read John 20 and was
uncomfortable with it because it sounds like Jesus just pops in and that Jesus just disappears.
And Calvin wanted to say he must have walked in through the door because he's got a body like you
and me and you can't do that. I think John is more mysterious here. I think he wants to emphasize
physicality at the same time but he also has a Jesus that can just pop in out of out of out of
nowhere. And I think that what I see in John is not so far from what I postulate in the early
church because I'm one who thinks that the stories of the empty tomb are early. So these
Christians are thinking in terms of physicality when they're thinking about the tomb but their
experiences are I think visionary. Now how you put those two together, I don't really do that in
the book. I don't know what to, I think I say I don't know what really ultimately to make of the
empty tomb. I think it's an early story but how to interpret it theologically or metaphysically
or ontologically I don't really know. As for Paul though we might have a disagreement here because
I think this is my this is my sense. I think Paul is dealing with Corinthians who probably
have no difficulty with a body that's just dead like Jesus is going to the realm of the gods.
There were Greco-Roman stories about people ascending at death but when you're thinking
about the general resurrection then you're talking about bodies and graves that have been sitting
there for years or decades or whatever and they're just bones and my suspicion is what the Corinthians
didn't didn't like was the notion that you know rotted bodies and bones and things like that were
suddenly going to come come back and do something. I think Paul's trying to find a compromise here
and his compromise is yeah there there's some sort of continuity here there is a seed
but it gets radically transformed so I don't read Paul to be saying there's a physical body and you
just get rid of it and then you get a new body a replacement body. I actually think what Paul's
trying to do here whether successful or not is argue that the thing that was buried somehow
gets radically transformed into something else and I think the Corinthians probably would have
been happy with that because he's saying we're not talking about flesh and bones coming back and
all the rest of it we're talking about a radical transformation. I don't know this to be true but
I wonder if he would agree with that because I think he says in his book Paul and Jesus
there were a couple different things he mentioned he talked about someone who was dead and this was
within like the Jewish milieu that there was supposedly a man some type of teacher who died
they knew where his corpse was but they still said he was risen or something like that I don't know
the source but he says that that's that's maybe an option but he's probably I think convinced with you
that from reading his book I think he thinks that there was an empty tomb and this is Tabor
Tabor thinks there was an empty tomb but they maybe they got the wrong one or something but
the bottom line is they had this belief that that it transformed it wasn't like corpse dead physical
U.M. blood it's decomposition decomposition is taking place and then that's all right back to
what we are he does think glorious glamorous light and all that so I think he would agree with you on
that I think it's just a matter of how that developed the church really takes that to a whole
different yeah and I if I understood the question is you know you read the long version originally
I think it probably is a response to a polemic it is a form of apologetics because I think what
people would say was they just saw a ghost right and you know dismiss it that way and so at some
point you have to say well it's different but let me add something here which you know I have
loose ends everywhere so at the end of the book I have a chapter called modest conclusions I try to
be modest about these things one of the things that's really puzzling is that if you look at modern
visions sometimes encounters with saints sometimes encounters with dead spouses the people will
emphasize the physicality of the experience so you can hug a dead husband you can kiss a dead
wife you can touch the feet of a resurrect of the saint who's appeared to you from heaven
the phenomenology is there that is people do in our time and place sometimes I don't know what
the percentage is here but I've cataloged lots of these instances where people will say wow this
wasn't just visionary this seemed real although if we were in the room we might see nothing
nothing at all I actually found one woman maybe I found two but I know for a certain one who said
it was just like Jesus at the disciples I mean my husband was here and I could touch him and he was
real but he just popped in and then he popped out so again metaphysically ontologically I'm not sure
what the heck is going on there but it is the case that sometimes what we call visionary experiences
can seem solidly real and so this makes it possible to wonder whether maybe some early
Christian or some early Christian somewhere had something similar I don't know that they that they
did but you can't exclude it as a possibility that that a visionary experience could be not just
ocular but could also involve hands and bodies I'm gonna phrase this in a way I'd love to hear
how you might respond just an idea Bart Ehrman has the legendary idea about the empty tombs he's like
for a while he thought okay there's really empty tombs I think he's changed that now he says he
doesn't think that there were is legend um and that's okay because some people say there's legends
elsewhere whatever but the question would be if he's right we're playing a hypothetical okay if
he's right that the tombs were legend you mean tomb plural or yeah tomb tomb singular okay sorry
if if that is legend then um how would you explain the data at that point if you personally thought
okay the tomb is legend there's not a historical kernel of an actual empty tomb then you'd have
to say it's an inference it would be the product of later theological reflection uh which decided
that Jesus was not only seen but seen because he had risen from the dead and if he had risen from the
dead then the tomb must be empty it is the case that uh while you can find in 2nd Baruch a text
that is very much like Paul that is a radical transformation of bodies and while you can find
Jewish texts in which people become like angels or become angels so that there is the notion of
radical transformation at the base of all this you look at the texts they are at least initially
about bones and flesh and dust and earth it's like Ezekiel 37 which by the first century was
already understood to be about the general resurrection so um you you have very physical
ideas of resurrection going on so the argument would be from a skeptical point of view we saw Jesus
and we've inferred that he rose from the dead because we've seen him his tomb must be empty
because if you're raised your tomb must be empty so they would be thinking um Ezekiel 37 or something
like that that that makes sense that's not what I think happened but uh you you can think that way
interesting yeah I just figure I just throw out a hypothetical there thank you
oh
