Dr. Robin Faith Walsh, it's really wonderful to speak to you again, and I know you're always busy. How are you?
Well, I have a cold, but I'm okay.
Okay.
This, if you hear me cough or I don't sound like myself.
Yeah, a little stuffy, right? A little stuffy.
A little stuffy, yeah, so.
It's okay.
But I'm hanging in here.
It's okay.
Yeah, I'm feeling better, so, on the tail end of it.
So, as far as the literature of the Gospels go, depending on how we look at that literature,
you might walk away with a different interpretation.
And I'll give you one example that I recently interviewed Jennifer Bird.
She introduced me to a book about the Beloved Disciple.
It is outside of the mainstream view, but the hypothesis goes something like,
the audience in which John's Gospels are written to are Greek.
Therefore, it is not unlikely that Jesus had a lover, the Beloved Disciple,
as someone who's like a pupil-type lover boy who follows him and, in fact,
adorns him even at his death and goes to his tomb.
Like, it would have fit a Greek context.
But when we read it as Christians or Christian apologists or things like that,
this is historical.
This is reliable.
Jesus was this strict observant Jew who would never do something.
Leviticus says, but we're dealing with the Gospels here.
And so I paint that picture to kind of ask you, especially with your Gospel ideas,
when an empty tomb story shows up as a classicist and not as an apologist
and not as someone who thinks this is literal historical, actually what happened,
what does that say to you?
It says that he's a God.
I mean, that's basically what that symbolically would have represented,
I think, to an audience in the ancient world.
I think you're absolutely right that some of these things that, you know,
we have 2,000 years of interpretation that can change how we approach a particular
aspect of the Gospel.
And I could talk about the Beloved Disciple thesis, too, if you want.
But there has to be an awareness of the multivalent ways that these things
could be read in the ancient world.
And from, I mean, history of Greek literature is bodies disappearing
because the person becomes a God.
I mean, this is even what we see in material culture.
So the Arch of Titus, right, when you have anybody who's been to Rome
who has seen the Arch of Titus, which commemorates the fall of the temple
and the Jerusalem War, Titus has himself on the back of an eagle flying up to
heaven in the arch of the triumphal arch, which is a sign that he, too,
apotheosis, meaning he's being shot straight up to heaven.
And generally speaking, when that happened to somebody in the ancient world,
and there are so many examples, that person has become a God.
The one that comes to mind for me, I think in the novel Keraton,
which is a Greek and Roman novel.
They sometimes call it a romance, a Greek romance.
There's a figure who goes to the tomb.
He's heard that basically his girlfriend or his love interest has died.
And he goes to the tomb to see her body and it's gone.
And his first reaction is, oh, she's become a God, you know,
like what God has stolen her away from me and like taken her up to heaven.
So this is just, you have to expect, you know, it's kind of,
you could argue a different question.
What did the Gospel writer intend versus how it could be read?
But we have to understand that this is a way it could be read, right?
Because there are so many other examples in Greek literature,
in Greek and Roman art that you see the same thing.
So, yeah.
Let's take that.
Let's run with that. Okay. So we have obviously,
what do you think?
And this is a bit speculative based on our criteria.
Everything is a little bit speculative, to be honest.
We don't have them to interview, right? We can't ask.
All right, Mr. Not Real Mark, but really we're just asking you
because your book's been called Mark Forever.
I wish we could.
My question is, is since in the Mediterranean world,
anyone who saw that or read that would have thought he's become a God.
Paul says in Romans 1.4,
it is by his resurrection that Jesus is now a Son of God.
He is the deified. He's clearly become a God.
And he says he was buried and then resurrected.
He doesn't give a tomb narrative, but it's not implausible
to think his body's missing. He's gone or something.
What do you think is implied by the Gospel authors?
Do you think they're thinking like what you're saying here and more?
I think they are trying to convey his status being changed
so that whether you want to say Son of God the way that Paul does,
by the way, it's interesting.
Each Gospel marks when, not marks, but marks,
when Jesus becomes a Son of God differently, just kind of as a side note.
So for Mark, it's the baptism.
For Paul, it's the resurrection.
For Matthew and Luke, it's in his genealogy essentially, right?
So you can see just kind of as a side note there.
So I think that, yeah, it's just trying to convey
that this person is out of the ordinary.
Also, you can argue that with so many other examples
in Greek and Roman religion and ancient Mediterranean religion
of figures who were once mortal becoming extra mortal.
I try not to use supernatural because I think in the ancient world,
this was all natural, this just happens, right?
But supernatural in the way we understand it kind of, you know,
in an esoteric kind of spiritual way, let's say.
They're just trying to mark that, right?
That he has now taken on the supernatural status,
on this extra human status.
And so I think anybody who would have read that,
I mean, that's not normal for someone to be empty, right?
So I just think that's how they would have understood it.
And it gives you some kind of symbolism that,
I mean, it also explains for any of the gospel authors
who may have been reading Paul,
or at least are in that kind of Pauline tradition
of understanding what we call early Christianity.
The key there is that Jesus' flesh, his human flesh,
became spiritual flesh, pneumatic flesh.
This is what Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians 15.
This idea that there are different kinds of flesh,
there's also spiritual flesh.
And that's what Jesus has in being a resurrected body.
And that's what you're going to get once you join this group, right?
Because you're going to share in that spiritual, that pneumatic stuff.
So you have to also have an empty tomb
because his physical body is no longer, you know,
applicable to this situation.
He has a, this is the power of his resurrection, right?
And this is a gift that's being promised to everyone else,
that your flesh, which is, as Paul says, weak,
susceptible to the passions,
it gets sick, it dies, right?
That kind of weak flesh will be replaced by this pneumatic stuff
that is holy, it's spiritual,
and you're going to live in eternity that way.
So it's also symbolizing that.
Because to have a physical body in the tomb
wouldn't make any sense theologically
based on what Paul sets up.
Because if you're being promised spiritual flesh,
then there shouldn't be any human flesh anywhere left over, right?
Yes, this is what,
to put the icing on the cake on my question,
just to point out, I have to tell Bertolo,
I don't know if you know her work,
Jews and the Roman rivals,
Pagan Rome's challenge to Israel.
Great, great book.
She pretty much just shows how Pagan Rome
and their ideas have absolutely saturated the Jews
in every respect, even the most,
even the most conservative of Jews
have been influenced by the Roman world.
And this is before Rome turned Christian.
I say that to say, I've heard some scholars
try to suggest that the disciples
may have in fact stole the body to get rid of it.
Now, I don't know where you land on this guess
because it's completely speculative,
but it is an accusation that is given to the disciples
in one of the gospels as a plausible explanation
for why Jesus' body is missing.
This is totally guesswork and just an opinion,
but do you think that they really thought
his body was missing somewhere
or do you think by the time Paul's writing this,
who cares and who knows?
Who cares and who knows?
You know, it's impossible to reconstruct
actually the thing that it does make me think of
not to be like two, one, no.
But I mean, this is something that I wrote about
with the satiricon.
I mean, the satiricon makes that joke
that they took the body of the widow's husband
out of the tomb to replace the one
that was stolen down from the cross
so that the Roman soldier wouldn't be killed, right?
So it almost, is that like that satire
or almost like a joke about the same question
you're asking, right?
So that tells me that in the second century
they were asking the same question.
So that makes me think we're not going,
if you buy my thesis that the satiricon
might be a satire of Christianity
or at least portions of it.
And so in that case, like here's a question
that was outstanding in the second century.
Generally speaking, you know, unfortunately,
you know, because this is a gruesome punishment
but people who were crucified, the bodies were not cared for.
The bodies were left or the bodies were buried
by the Romans in some kind of, you know, mass grave
somewhere outside the city walls.
So I don't, I think the idea that the disciple,
there are other people who would know more about this
than I do as a historical matter,
but I do also wonder how much we can imagine
they would even have the opportunity
to do anything with this body, right?
More likely the body would have been left
or taken care of by the Romans.
In that case, it was missing, right?
Because they had no authority to do anything with it.
So then it's a legend built,
the rest is legend being built?
Possibly. I mean, those are the kind of things
that I would press on.
And again, there are people who are more expert
than me in this, but just those,
there are laws that you can look up, you know,
around crucifixion that would dictate, you know,
what rights a family has to a body or something along those lines.
That to me would be a better starting point
than the Gospels for describing that historical matter.
Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
