Dennis McDonald. I have a good question from a new patron, someone who's supporting us,
Ollie Rowan. Thank you so much for supporting MythVision. If you're watching this channel and
you're tuning in and you're enjoying what you hear, please consider joining us. We have lots of
content here on the Patreon. And of course, questions can be answered to scholars or asked
of the scholars. So this is the question. It's a little bit long. I'm going to try and read it
quickly. Hello, Derek. I joined your Patreon this year in gratitude for all you give to us
and to ask Dennis a question. But I think I might need to explain a bit first. We know
John's Gospel portrays a Christ who is a superior to Dionysus. I love how they say we know. I love
that. And to ask Dennis a question, I'm sorry, I conflated at the top. But who is John's Gospel
trying to persuade? If all of the Gospels were written for instructing the Christians more than
as tools for converting outsiders, why compete with Dionysus? Paul had already encountered
super apostles from a Judeo-Greek mystery cult that was successfully infiltrating his churches,
drawing loyalty to themselves and encouraging illicit sexual practices. Were they secretly
orgiastic like the Baca Nalia, doing things too shameful to even speak about?
So my question to Dennis is, could John's Gospel be designed as an answer to an
antinomian Dionysian-like rival mystery cult that had infiltrated the church households
at the time of its composition? Is this an angle that has not been investigated to date?
Not as far as I'm aware, but you have your finger on the scholarly pulse far more than I do.
Looking forward to the interview with Dennis, now proud to be part of the We
Are Myth Vision. Best regards.
Ollie, that's a very sophisticated question, and I appreciate it very much, especially that you
identified with my arguments that you have Dionysian elements in the Fourth Gospel.
And what you're doing is trying to press that question to see if we can get some mileage
out of the Christian diversity and also certain Gnostic traits and so on of the author.
I'm not familiar with anyone who has attempted to do that, and maybe that's something I can
encourage you to do, Ollie. But I do want to say, put it this way.
The author of the Dionysian Gospel, by that I mean the earliest detectable version of the Gospel of
John, shows plenty of identification with the Synoptic Gospels. The author is familiar with
the Synoptic Gospels. The Synoptic Gospels frequently depict Jesus as requiring sacrifice
by those who follow him. They are to take up their crosses, they're to sell their goods and give to
the poor, they're to be willing to suffer in synagogues for the witness to Jesus,
even it means they lose their life. That the rewards of those who are faithful to Jesus are
going to be in the hereafter, at a tribunal in the heavens either at the end of time or on
the end of death or whatever. And the Synoptic Gospels differ on that, but they agree on the
hardships of discipleship. Now, if you are in a Christian community and you're in a community
that has the worship of Dionysus, you're at a disadvantage because your Jesus in the Synoptics
is requiring sacrifice and Dionysus is offering wine and parties and good sex. And to combat that,
it's not that the John is saying you shouldn't give to the poor or that you shouldn't be willing
to sacrifice, but the author says right from the beginning, the Logos came into the world
not to condemn it, but to give life and to give gift after gift. So whereas in the Synoptics,
Jesus' first major miracle is casting demons out of a demoniac at a synagogue,
Jesus' first act is to change water into wine at a wedding. So there you have drinking and sex
and partying and the guests are already drunk and he's going to give them more wine. Or Jesus can
offer water to a living water to a woman, the Samaritan woman, and she plays the role of a
minad. Jesus in his death is not a loser. He's a winner. His last words are, it is finished.
Jesus is a victor in the fourth gospel. He raises Lazarus back to life. He emphasizes love and
community. So I think the way to understand what's going on in the fourth gospel is really to augment
the picture of Jesus in the Synoptics by saying to his community, those who, I don't mean community,
is the John in community. I mean, the reader, that yes, Dionysus may offer wine and partying,
but Jesus does too. It's not just a matter of carrying your cross. It's also carrying your wine
goblet. So I think that is probably a cheap way of caricaturing the gospel of John, but I think it
is written for the internal, sorry for the pun, consumption. And the author is interested in
declaring Jesus as the the Logos who comes into the world, not to condemn it, but to give life
and to give a gift after gift. So just to emphasize, when they ask, could John's gospel be designed as
an answer to an antinomian Dionysian like rival mystery cult that had infiltrated the church
households at the time of its composition? You probably wouldn't see it as like that, or would
you see, well, what would you say the purpose of the book is? Is there is an apologetic to try and
compete against a different rivalry cult, you think, or what are your thoughts?
No, I don't think so. If we had more data, maybe we could make that case. So I just think it's highly
conjectural, and there's not a lot of evidence to push on. But what we can say is that it's
more likely a rival to the synoptic gospels, not as a supplement to say, yes, Jesus does these
things. He walks on water, he can heal and raise the dead. But he also can give a good time at a
party. And so it's more competitive indirectly with the Dionysian cult. And it's an attempt to give
good news to a community that otherwise would be having gospels that are heavily demanding.
Ladies and gentlemen, be sure to sign up for Dr. Dennis R. McDonald's
Greek Mimesis in the New Testament course, reading the gospels with one eye on Greek poetry.
Dennis spends 18 lectures diving into several parallels, building up the methodology to show
his methods in how he sees that the New Testament authors cleverly rewrite and really make Jesus
such a better figure than what we see in the older Greek myths and their poetry. You can sign up
today, own it for life. There are several hours, well over eight hours of content in this course
with 18 lectures. Dennis gives you so much to read and look up and consider in investigating.
Did the New Testament authors actually imitate the Greek epics to write their narratives about
Jesus? There are several reading recommendations, additional resources. Under every single one
of the lectures, you can download one through 18 on MP3. In case you want to just download it and
have it in your whatever the device might be in order to work and listen at the same time,
you don't have to just see it. But if you decide to watch the content, it is all in 4K,
extremely high quality content as you can see. The audio is nice and loud, takes you through
his book. Dennis takes a deep dive. Be sure to sign up today. I hope you will. This helps Dennis
McDonald and it helps educate the world on what's going on in scholarship.
