In the New Testament, we find this expectation for the kingdom of God, the end of the ages,
an apocalyptic fervor. We find this in the book of Revelation, we find this in Paul's letters,
and the Jesus Seminar wants to wrestle over whether Jesus actually thought this way or not.
I think he did. But today, I have a conversation with Paula Fredrickson asking,
are the things that were expected in the New Testament literature actually fell?
Did they get fulfilled? Or what was expected? Did it get reinterpreted?
Tell me what you think of this episode. This is another one of 12.
Thank you to those who made this trip possible. I truly appreciate your help.
Paula, I really appreciate this again. I want to ask you about apocalypticism,
and I'll paint a picture, because I was a Christian who had dreams. I didn't tell you this
till now. We're doing it on video. I had dreams at the end. I woke up crying multiple times when
I believed this back in the day as a kid, thinking that it was going to happen in my life. The end
of the world, some of my loved ones who didn't take Jesus serious enough were going to be punished,
or at least be killed, when this happened. It was real, like in my mind. Years later,
I started to study my Bible, and I started realizing Jesus says some things. Just taking
it like what the Gospels say, I accepted that's what Jesus said, because I was a fundamentalist
who believed the Bible was also an errant and fallible, or at least mostly an errant and mostly
infallible. He says some things that were supposed to happen, and they're supposed to happen soon.
But the way I understood them as a Christian, I was like, there's no way any of that already
happened. I ran into this wall where it was like either Jesus lied, was wrong, the liar,
lunatic, or whatever. C.S. Lewis. Mad, bad, or God. Right. And I said, well, he can't be wrong,
cognitive dissonance, right? I had a presupposition there. So he must have been right,
but we got it wrong. Misinterpreted. Yep. And I think this is where realized eschatology comes in.
But before we get to realize eschatology, that is something I think we'll do later in another
episode. What was expected? The kingdom of God, prepare the way the kingdom of God,
prepare the way the Lord, the kingdom of God is near, the kingdom of God, the kingdom of God.
Then Paul talks about this, we who are alive and remain. What were they expecting to happen, and
did it happen? Apocalyptic thought is
a very minor theme in Second Temple Judaism. People were not waiting at it like Paul reviewers are
I, you know, waiting for, you know, the kingdom is coming, the kingdom is coming. That's a very
specific. So it's like a river in the ocean. If the ocean is Jewishness, apocalyptic eschatology is
a river within it. When you look at those texts, they're multi-vocal. You have different combinations
of different things. Some of them have a rebuilt temple or enlarged and improved temple, which you
need if all humanity is going to go there. Some of them have the defeat of the nations. Some of
them have the incorporation of the nations. Some of them have a resurrection of the dead. A lot of
them do. A lot of them have a restoration of the tribes of Israel. Some of them have a messiah.
Others don't have a messiah. Sometimes God is the one doing the fighting. Sometimes it's an archangel
who's been delegated to do it. So you have, it's not a univocal tradition. What is hardwired into
the vision, if we want to put all of that together in one ball, is that normal history will end.
And the day that the kingdom arrives will be different from the day before. There'll be
travails before the kingdom, but then ultimately it's a divine comedy. God is going to put history
right. And it's going to happen if you're an apocalyptic eschatologist. It's going to happen
imminently. So the difference between Isaiah, which is a kind of restoration theology, on that day
all the nations will come and gather in Jerusalem. And then you get something like Tobit, which is a
little bit more cranked up. And the nations will destroy their idols and there'll be a new temple
and everything else. And it's going to happen within a medium range, or Daniel. And then you
have the Gospels, where the time frame is what intensifies. It goes from on that day to soon
to now. And that's what we seem to hear and echo of in the Gospel of Mark. And that's what we hear
directly in Paul's letters. This is going to happen now. So what's going to happen? The fact
that Jesus's followers, as far as I can tell, or some of them at least, were persuaded that he
was raised from the dead, says to me that the resurrection of the dead was one of the elements
in Jesus's apocalyptic proclamation. When he talked about the kingdom, he was talking about the
punishment of sinners. He was talking, of course, part of his call about sinners is to,
it's the hard sell, right? You better repent now before the kingdom comes or else this will happen.
John the Baptist, you know, the winnowing fork will come and you'll be burned or you won't be
burned. So there's that kind of punitive language. And Paul, as in Isaiah, you have both idolaters
are going to be punished and the wrath that is coming is going to go to them. And then you have
these visions of universal redemption in the same authors. The transition is in Romans, where you
have most of humanity, which is worshiping idols condemned in Romans one, and you have the fullness
of the nations in all Israel in Romans 11. So it's a very elastic tradition as well. But the main
point is that normal time and normal social experience will end. And specifically with the
resurrection of the dead, neighborhoods going to look different. So it didn't happen.
As far as I can tell, of course, zombie apocalypse, maybe it happens in a way.
That's where I wanted to ask you, Matthew, Matthew 28, where the saints rise. Right.
It makes me think Christians, this Christian author is trying to somehow reconcile as late
in the game as this is. There's got to be something going on. The heartbeat has to keep going. He
can't quite, he's not as apocalyptic, right? As maybe Paul or what? Well, he delays it a little,
which is what's his choice? I mean, he's a third or fourth generation author. But I think his
allegiance to literary tropes ran away with him because where do the saints go? What happens to
them? I mean, they're just dangling in the narrative. They're just sort of hanging around. I mean,
what's going on? You never hear from them again. But that lets you know how hardwired the resurrection
of the dead is as an apocalyptic trope. That whole pericope always made me wonder,
what is this here? It's only in Matthew. Why is this not, like, is the author trying to save
something? The trope got out in front of him. Yeah, because it wasn't also the trope something that
when Jesus rose, so were the saints supposed to rise, because it wasn't supposed to be an
individual from what I understand in Jewish thought. Jewish thought expects a resurrection of all the
dead. There's, I don't know any tradition that says that the dead are supposed to rise when Jesus
rose. Jesus rises and it's obviously something that reconfigures some of the timeline, because
usually it was the redemption of Israel and then the nations. And now it's going to be,
according to Paul, well, it started with Israel and now it's going to the nations and then it'll
ricochet back to Israel. So there's this back and forth, because he thinks he's living in this gap,
this wrinkle in time, between the resurrection and the imminent second coming. And so he's in
that pressurized zone. But he talks about basically an astral transformation that this body of flesh
is going to transmute into a body of Pneuma, a body of spirit. 1 Corinthians 15. And then that's,
once you have a spirit body rather than a flesh body, you're able to go into the upper air,
which is where the moon is, and then ascend to where your commonwealth is in heaven.
The heavens are above the lunar realm. So he's not just throwing out metaphors. He's talking,
he's talking the architecture of the cosmos. He's talking elementary physics, only Pneuma. I mean,
stars are made of Pneuma too. And we all get star bodies. And that didn't happen in Paul's lifetime.
That's the same thing Dr. Tableau told me. He's like, it's a cosmic transformation,
pretty much. Everything has flesh, even the stars have flesh, as Paul's describing it and stuff.
But it's this different type of flesh. Different type. Yeah, because it's in a different area.
It's a different neighborhood in the cosmos. Absolutely. And also, again, Paul is swimming
in pagan water. It's the idea of the atastra, the ascent of the soul to the stars, or of the
dead to the stars is a good Mediterranean idea. Wow. So we also have in the book of Revelation,
which is when you say that's quite apocalyptic. Apocalypse on steroids, right?
Yeah, the expectation seems to be imminent. And Rome is supposed to get their butts kicked,
it seems. That's awkward after 312 when Constantine signs on. So that's when Athanasius,
I think, doesn't Athanasius go, well, this is an allegory, like they really want an allegory.
You see this in particular. It says, well, no, it's actually, it's a realized eschatology now
that Rome is the Isaiah's peace from sea to sea. Yeah, you can reinterpret anything if you have to.
Yeah, that's exactly. I had Bart Ehrman on for about an hour, right? And we went through
parikope after parikope to try and point out contradictions. Like, did Jesus write one donkey
or two donkeys? Christians are trying to do this to make it not a contradiction.
Depends on which text you're reading. Right. And he's like, at the end of it,
the hair he has left, he was ready to pull out and he's like, Derek, you know, I should have
set this up front. If you don't want there to be a contradiction, you can make something no
matter what becomes something that doesn't have a contradiction. Humans are good at it.
Really good at it. I do want to mention, so we did this apocalypsism, we just briefly got you to
mention like, yes, expectations were there, expectations failed. But what happens when
failure in apocalyptic expectations occurs? And there's a book I have on my shelf at home called
Win Prophecy Fails. It's not the one about the alien abductees or the alien cult. It's the other
one that's Old Testament prophetic traditions by Robert Carroll and Robert P. Carroll. And like,
just pretty much points out when they fail, it gets rewritten or things either the date gets
stretched or somehow like- That happens all throughout Roman antiquity. The prophecy of
the imminent end of the world is one of the most long live prophecies in Christian tradition. There
are people right now who are expecting the imminent end of the world by God, not by environmental
disaster. What you do is you recalculate the end time. It's empirically disconfirmed. This is
how the Millerites become the Seventh Day Adventists. You say, well, we were wrong about the date,
but the prophecy itself is right. And then you just fill in the slots differently. In antiquity,
because they're reading Peter, a thousand years, this is a day in the sight of the Lord,
they're reading Genesis with the six days of creation, and they're reading Revelation with
the thousand year reign of the saints. And they put all of that in a pile, and then they calculate
that the world is going to end when it's 6,000 years old, when there's been this millennium
week. And it ends up falling in what equates with our year around the year between 400 and 500
is a hot zone of apocalyptic expectation. But that prophecy was recalculated in the third century.
So there was a comfortable two centuries off when they were doing it scientifically.
Julius Africanus did the chronology for this and figured out that it was going to be around 500.
I think Augustine thought of this epoch, the 60. He said that 1000 is actually 10 times 10 times 10,
which is irrefutable, which is a symbolic number, meaning plentitude and fullness. It's not a quantity.
It's a quality. So what that means is that we don't know, but whenever the times are fulfilled,
that's when it's going to happen. It's a way of not having to... It's the accordion, right? Yeah,
this is interesting that you bring that up, because I was thinking, if that isn't the problem
solver, the other one is to create, oh no, it did happen. Like I mentioned, there are groups out there
called full preterist or partial preterist, where they'll say, some of this prophecy was fulfilled,
some of it's still yet future, but the preterist think all of the prophecies were fulfilled,
and they just... You'd look at the words and go, but that word says this, and they go, oh yeah,
yeah, but you misunderstand that word. Or like, for example, the sun, moon, and stars won't give
their light. They go, that's just apocalyptic literature genre, right? And they'll say it's
realized... What about the resurrection of the dead? Right. So in their mind, I'm trying to go and
give a bat for what they might say. They might go, well, Ezekiel talks about the resurrection,
the sinew and the bones, but it's all about Israel, and it's really a metaphor for Israel's
resurrection. The way they would try to understand this is not literal resurrection, but that it's
Israel's... It's 1948. Well, they don't think that. They think that it happened in 70 AD somehow.
The resurrection of Israel happened in 70? Yeah, the resurrection of Israel, because they think
it's a remnant. They'll take a remnant approach, like it's only 10%. Well, the remnant... I mean,
more Jews survived the war than didn't, right? Right. I mean, Jews were from Spain to Babylon,
right? I think they might be doing a little bit of like, the only ones that were really
chosen were those who were Christ-following ones, and like... Well, that's not fair to everybody.
That's just not fair. I know. We could do anything, right? But my point is, is like,
realize eschatology. Maybe we'll put a cliffhanger into this, because we'll dive deeper into it,
being critical later on. Okay, that's fine. But yeah, is there anything else that we could
say about apocalypticism, other than it has like 100% so far, 100% failure rate?
For some reason, it's eternally appealing to people, I think, because it ends up with
redeeming history. I mean, God wipes away every tear, wrongs are righted. Now, depending on who
the author is, which wrongs and which right, you have the gratifying feeling of seeing your
enemies fry forever. That's going to be great. Tertullian looked forward to that.
Augustine has an entire disquisition on how flesh is going to be special at the resurrection,
because it has to feel pain eternally. He's thinking about fleshly resurrection and hell,
and insisting that torments are eternal, so we'll have this whole scientific explanation of what
kind of flesh is. So there are all sorts of attractions to this type of thinking, and it
doesn't appeal to me, but it appeals to a lot of people.
Thank you. Thank you to those who contributed in the GoFundMe on making this trip possible for
these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson. I want to give a special shout out to you,
your names are chiseled in history. I also want to thank everybody who has become a patron of
MythVision, making stuff like this possible, taking academic work that is hiding behind all of these
scholarships, all of these colleges, and making it public, public knowledge for everybody to learn.
Thank you.
