to MythVision podcast.
Does Jesus love marriage?
Well, the title's kind of triggering, isn't it?
He loves some Unix, that's for sure.
And we know that, I think I hear someone in the background.
So I'm looking forward to this live stream.
Dr. Jennifer Bird has written an amazing book.
I pinned that at the top of the comment section.
We're gonna have a deep, deep dive conversation.
And with that being said, let's not waste any time.
Dr. Jennifer Bird, welcome back to MythVision.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Derek, for having me back.
Thank you.
Looking forward to this talk for, you know,
since we scheduled it.
Well, it's been, it's long overdue.
The book has been out for what, four months now, I'd say?
Yeah, it's actually a kind of a bit of a joke.
Technically, it was the end of January, I don't know,
but it was in print on Halloween.
So go figure.
Yeah.
Anyway, it's officially out now.
That's what we know, but it's been in people's hands
for several months.
Yeah.
Well, if you're watching, I have a link in the description.
Of course, I have affiliate links.
So if you ever buy books and stuff,
and you wanna do that and help MythVision grow,
you can always go and shop on Amazon
through any of the links that I have in the description.
And they credit us, but either way, whatever you do,
you can also go to Dr. Bird's website.
You just Google, Dr. Jennifer Bird.
And I promise you, you'll see her websites there.
The links are in the description of this video as well.
But marriage in the Bible, what does the text say?
I love the title.
As we were talking about before I hit live,
I want to know what the text,
what is the original context of the author?
And you do a great, great job getting into chapter three
where you're like, first of all,
Christians love to take this and use this marriage thing
as a gotcha and you can't divorce ever.
And Jesus taught this idea about marriage
with so many things they aren't aware of
that you are rolling out the carpet on.
But contextualizing Jesus in a rabbinic debate format
really blew my mind and it made me enjoy the book even more
because you also entertain various possibilities
of hyperbole or literalistic ideas of what's going on.
What does Jesus mean?
How do we understand this?
And anyway, you have a presentation, I'm sure.
But is there anything before we get to that
that you'd like to cover?
Oh, dear.
No, the thing I will say is there,
a lot of people are trying to have this conversation
about what Jesus means and what he's saying
and is divorce okay or not
and what do they mean by adult,
what do they mean by this and X, Y and Z?
And what I'm saying that's new
that you're not gonna get from other scholars
is to pay attention to what Jesus is implying
about the role of sex in all of this.
That's the part that I'm most interested in
because he is perpetuating very ancient ideas
about bodies and sex and that sex is what a man does
to a woman to claim her to Marcus territory.
Like to me, you're not gonna hear that on a sermon for sure
but no other scholars publish that.
You know what I mean?
Like let's take this part seriously
because that is what is informing people to this day, right?
In terms of being really concerned
about the way people are having sex and to what end, right?
You are very, very transparent, bold one
and you make people who are reading it
feel comfortable even reading it
because sometimes I'm sure some people are like,
I don't really know.
I've seen, I can't remember the name of podcasts
but they'll have girls that are only fans girls
or other girls who aren't putting themselves out there
like that that are free birds, let's call them.
And they're flying and they're enjoying their lives
with several partners as they go along.
And in these podcasts by more conservative hosts,
you can tell they frown upon them.
They talk about their quality.
Well, is that all you have to offer?
These kinds of things as if sex is the only thing
that they have to offer.
And a lot of times I heard one of them say,
and I'm giving examples so people get comfortable right now,
we're gonna be diving into some difficult stuff
but also hopefully everybody's 18 and older
and you can handle these conversations,
is the one guy, the girl was talking about
how come guys can do all this with all these girls
and they get praised and the girl does this
and she becomes marked as a pariah,
a negative derogatory slander.
And the guy who obviously was trying to make sense of this
said, well, isn't it easier for women to get laid
than it is for a man?
And the effort that men have to put into
to try and get laid is evidence
that it's actually an accomplishment and achievement.
You were unborn with this?
So like he's an apologist for why we should consider
these women in a negative way
and men who accomplish these things in a positive light,
the same thing keeps going.
I might be puking here in a moment.
It's, you know what I'm saying though, like you've heard it.
It's just unbelievable that people say these things out loud.
There's some people, I'm shocked that they're even saying
some of the stuff they do say and it's like, yeah, wow,
but we're combating.
Right, the devil standards just,
they are painful, right, today,
but they're in the scriptures too,
like the texts themselves set people up
to think that way, right?
Yeah, property, women are property in the Bible,
the way that they're described.
And it's always men who are doing the talking about this.
And this is, there's so many things to factor in
that this book I've never considered.
And you're the first person who brought it to my attention,
marriage is a sex act.
It's a sex thing.
And I'm like, I thought it was when you like go down there
and then the priest comes up and he starts saying,
I do and then I do.
And then you say your little things and then you kiss.
That's marriage.
And then the ceremony is over and now you're married.
It's like, actually, that's not what marriage is.
Anyway, I'm taking your...
It's fine, no, it's fine.
Yeah, I mean, it's great to have someone else talk
about what you're doing, you know,
like it's not just me who's interested in this.
Like even, you know, like Derek Lambert
is interested in this too, that's great.
Well, it's biblical and I want to understand it.
And then people who are like, I don't agree with that.
You're giving them permission as your first book,
permission granted to say,
I don't agree with Jesus on that.
I hope even Christians can do this.
Right, right.
And it is, and you know, any Christians who are like,
it is scary to question what's attributed to Jesus
or to raise a question about whether or not
you agree with him or that you're comfortable with that
or to interrogating.
Like the fact that I'm saying in that chapter, right?
I'm saying that Jesus has a pretty unhealthy view
of marriage, right?
I'm saying, I don't say it in those words.
I say it differently, but over and over, right?
He is playing along with the ancient ideas.
He's playing along with what the Hebrew Bible
sets him up to think and believe.
It's his tradition, of course he is, right?
But people don't, people spend a lot of time talking
about, you know, the laws or this and that.
And I wanna get into what the implications
for people are.
You know, what's behind this way of thinking
about men and women, bodies, you know,
this relationship we call marriage.
I wanna get into that.
I just wanna give a shout out to one of my top fans.
The Mount Calvary way, thank you for being a new fan
of MythVision podcast.
MythVision hates Christianity and loves to just
disingenuously misrepresent right.
I can't wait for you to watch and see how we do that
from the text itself today, so that you can be
in flat denial of what your own Bible teaches.
Hallelujah, I'm looking forward to it.
Thank you so much everybody in the chat for being here.
Hit the like button, let's have some fun.
Dr. Bird, I'm following your lead.
We're not doing a fun intro, like video thinking.
Do you want me to?
I haven't done one, I got one.
I mean, it's like half the fun to come in
besides talking to you, it's your intros.
Okay, I've got one and it's been a minute,
but the last time someone brought up
that old Western Tombstone movie,
which I really enjoyed, it was super, super, whoa.
That was a good one.
I'm your Huckleberry, let's play for blood.
So I figure why not?
Let's just, please.
Okay, okay, I'm following you.
Don't even have you have the guts to play for blood.
I'm your Huckleberry.
I just like it.
No.
Thank you.
I just needed, it helps me to kind of be like,
okay, we're doing this now.
Okay.
It's official.
It's official now.
Okay, now we can start.
Awesome.
Yeah, well, so, you know,
I don't know if you actually talk with each of your guests
to talk through what you're gonna call it or whatever,
what you're gonna put on the thumbnail and all of that,
but you and I did talk about it
and I was trying to steer you in a different direction.
And of course, you went with what you did.
And there's this part of me that cringes
because I'm like, I just, I want people to know what to expect
and I'm not sure if I'm gonna give them what they think
they're gonna get and that's okay
and we'll talk it all out and it's fine,
but, you know, that kind of happens
because I understand what you're trying to do, right?
Like, there's a, I guess, if we're being honest and fair,
the title is sensational and maybe even a bit much.
What we are doing or attempting to do with the title
is contrast what we're, first of all, what is marriage
so that you can understand that contextually.
But then also to go, why did it even bring up UNIX?
Like, what, what, why are we favored?
And you're gonna see that in the text, he prefers that.
So I'm not saying he doesn't say marriage,
marriage is an institution and antiquity
in his own antiquity.
So he's like, I'm not here to change that,
but if you can do this thing, even better.
Well, and, you know, but also from my perspective,
most Christians, right, this is their guy, right?
Jesus is your guy and we're not,
we're not taking him seriously on marriage.
The things that he does say about marriage
and the implications behind it all,
people are not taking that seriously.
I want you to take it seriously.
Like, more than, more than anything else.
Let's just, this.
I love this.
And just to give myself a little credit,
I didn't mean it.
I guess you could say I didn't mean it hyperbolic,
but you know how Christians love to see the Jacob,
I loved Esau, I hated passage in the go.
He didn't hate him.
It's just, he more liked, okay then.
Jesus didn't hate marriage,
but he really loves eunuchs.
So let's just bring the cat out of the bag here.
Okay.
Well, I think you could potentially say
he might actually hate marriage.
I think it's possible.
Anyway, that isn't where I'm trying to go,
but I think there's room for that.
So from my perspective, right,
what is it that I, why do I do all of this stuff, right?
Like I'm interested in getting people to take the Bible
more seriously than they ever have before.
So it's kind of where the shorthand here, right?
Like, no, let's take it seriously.
Let's see what it does say.
See what it doesn't say.
I didn't read the super tethyshire, but.
Oh, I'm just giving it, sorry.
I didn't mean to interrupt you.
That was Jay from Hunter Biden's laptops.
He's a friend of mine.
Nice, yes, yeah.
Stop misrepresenting Christianity.
Well, current Christians may actually find things
they're gonna disagree with,
but she's going back to the source.
And then they might find some overlapping
and agree with some of the things she says about this.
So, sorry.
Yeah, yeah, you never know.
So that is, you know, the whole endeavor
of looking at what the,
what does the Bible say about marriage, right?
That was, that was an endeavor.
Took quite a bit of time and I enjoyed the endeavor,
but it, you know, it's kind of one of those,
if I wanted to give someone like one or two sound bites,
you know, like that's, I'm trying to think,
well, what Jesus actually says is not taken seriously.
It just isn't.
So I, so per your thumbnail, right?
We're, we'll start out here and see where it goes, right?
See where our conversation goes.
So I do wanna just, this is gonna be fairly brief,
but just to remind people if,
or let people know if you're not,
if you don't know already, right?
Very briefly, we're gonna look at the things
that Jesus is attributed with saying.
And if you believe that Jesus said them all,
or if you just wanna talk about the writer
is depicting him this way,
it doesn't matter to me which way you wanna think about that.
I prompt, I just think the people need to be more clear
about, oops, sorry.
Yeah, so what he does say about marriage,
and then this passage about Unix,
which I think we're gonna have to just talk about.
Oh, Hunter Biden's comment about Unix.
Yes.
The, the, the, you know, the script or whatever
that was the captionings, you know,
they thought I was saying talking about a computer language,
but I'm not, yeah, okay.
So yes, Unix, so these, this may be news to some people,
this might just be review,
but leave your family to follow me, right?
Like it is okay to leave your, your, your parents,
your children, your, your spouse to follow me.
Like that's okay.
That's, that's Luke chapter 18 verses 28 to 30.
And I remember having a conversation
when I was early into like,
I would just started on Twitter like many years ago.
And this young woman was like, was engaging.
She's engaging me.
She said, I wouldn't mind if my husband left me
to follow Jesus, you know?
She means that.
I know that she means that,
but I bet she doesn't have a mortgage or children yet.
Like, do you know what I mean?
Like, right.
Okay.
Anyway, so.
Especially if there's no income coming in by doing that.
So that's a different question to even.
Exactly, right.
Marriage is a hindrance.
So there's a passage, right?
In Luke chapter 20 verses 34 and 35,
where he's talking about those who,
the people of this age give in marriage,
are married and given marriage.
But those worthy of, I didn't, I changed the page here,
but those worthy of the resurrection, do not,
do not marry.
Like this is a hindrance to being in the kingdom of God.
What the hell?
Like, we don't have-
It reminds me of that passage where you're,
what you're talking about,
where the rabbis are trying to get Jesus.
Who will he be married to in the resurrection?
Kind of thing.
We're getting to that.
Yes, we're getting to that.
No, that's fine.
That's the next one, right?
He's, yes, they pose, it's the Sadducees,
because the Sadducees don't believe in the resurrection.
And so they're posing that question.
They're like, yeah, a man takes a woman,
marries a woman and dies without giving her children.
And so she, you know, each of his six brothers, right?
That poor woman.
And we don't pause to be sorry for her.
We're just too focused on what Jesus is gonna say about it,
right?
Like, good grief, these bodies as pawns in this game, right?
No, let's be a little more sensitive to that, please.
Yeah.
And so they ask to whom does she belong in the resurrection?
And he doesn't pause to say,
and maybe we should do away with that practice, right?
That's not the point of the exchange,
but the reality is from this perspective then,
Jesus is giving two thumbs up to Leverett marriage.
Right.
Okay, I mean, I hope your younger brothers
are just as good looking as you, Derek,
because if Ryan's gotta marry one of that,
well, no, no, she wouldn't have to,
because you've already given her children, never mind.
That's true.
It's already official.
Oh, like seriously, people,
Jesus is endorsing Leverett marriage.
Can we please take a minute to wrap our minds around this?
Yes, I don't wanna move on too quick here, right?
What Jesus does endorse, many times we've said,
we're not okay with that anymore.
And so it's just stunning to me.
Okay.
Just to pause on that,
to emphasize something for those
who may not know Leverett marriage,
just to emphasize something that I think's important.
Thinking of the woman in the situation is,
the law does not care about her feelings
about the next brother.
The law says she will, right?
Carry off the offspring in the name of the,
the original brother that was with her.
And so it doesn't matter.
Your point, I think, if it went over anyone's head was,
if your brother is this not so good looking,
not so hygienic, not so, you know, just being silly here,
but I'm being serious.
Imagine you had someone who's just dirty, filthy.
You have no choice by the law,
but to marry that brother to continue the lineage, et cetera,
in his name.
Yeah.
Genesis 38, that's the one story that we have
from the Hebrew Bible that kind of enacts that law.
You know, I mean, the women don't ever have a voice anyway,
even in the initial, right?
She's purchased, you know, from her family
and Judah gives her to his oldest son.
What's interesting to me is that in Genesis, you know,
Judah is saying to the second son after the first one dies,
go and perform the brother-in-law duty to her.
He's not even talking about it in terms of marriage.
He doesn't say, go take your sister-in-law.
Go take her as your own and have children.
No, it's just go have sex with her to give her children.
Like, it's unbelievable to me how it's talked about so bluntly
and so it may have evolved by the first century.
Sure, it may have evolved
that they're not talking about it in those terms,
but it's still a practice and it's still focused
on women's bodies as, you know,
they're for men, predominantly their role as baby makers
and so forth and so on.
Yeah, that's love at marriage,
is giving the oldest son children
through whom the inheritance has passed along
and all those kinds of things, right?
So over and over again, we have messages
from the Christian Bible, both tests,
both primary testaments, messages about women as primarily
here to produce children, you know?
And it's even, Jesus isn't taking a moment
to correct that, right?
So it's in there as an example.
I don't think that, I'm not trying to say
that I think he was down, like he was thrilled about it,
but he did, but it wasn't a part of the thing
that they were trying to address
and he didn't feel the need
or the person writing Jesus' story down
and he didn't feel the need to say,
maybe we should stop this one.
I think that's worth thinking about, right?
It's like the same thing with slavery,
that Jesus uses slavery in his parables,
in his teachings and never condemns the act
or even though what I love about,
I can't remember the scholar,
Jennifer, another Jennifer.
Glancy, Glancy.
Yeah, probably, I think it is Glancy.
It's nothing about Jennifer's, I'm telling you.
They're just smart people.
As she points out, Jesus does this over and over
and this is a problem for Christians
because there were scenes that literally spoke
as if it was a crime against humanity.
So he could have gone on record.
It's not like it was completely foreign
and no one had ever, as individuals,
spoken against the situation of slavery,
the practice of slavery.
He could have, he didn't, that's a huge problem.
It is, huge.
It ought to be, it ought to be considered a problem.
Exactly.
Well, just because he didn't comment on it
doesn't mean he didn't, you know, well,
guess what, folks?
You don't get to play it both ways, right?
He does comment on it and it's in pro,
just like left, right?
Yes, he uses it and very much undermines,
it diminishes the humanity of these bridesmaids
or whatever their versions or all the different stories
that he's using enslaved people
to talk about the kingdom of heaven or whatever.
Yeah, it's concerning to me.
And so the one that is, the claim
that is coming from Jesus in Matthew 19
is the one that's closest to being,
saying something positive about marriage.
In other words, divorce is not a good idea
so that in a sense is a back end way of saying, stay married.
Isn't necessarily the same thing as saying
positive things about marriage, right?
I mean, I think that's important to note.
We are already in it, damn it.
Right?
So the thing is the passage,
I actually kind of just want to read the whole passage
if that's okay, because it's,
people want to come in and say all kinds of things about it,
but what is it?
So from my perspective, again,
this is where this is the thing that's new, right?
That I'm offering to this whole exchange
or way of thinking about this passage,
pay attention to what he is then saying about bodies and sex.
And that, and what's interesting about this,
for like this focus that I'm trying to ask you,
I ask my readers to think about it,
I ask my students to think about it,
Oh, I lost my train of thought, Derek.
That is hilarious.
Ignore the super chats, please.
We will give them praise here in a minute.
I just want you,
because I know that can be distracting.
A little bit, but I-
You want your students and your readers to follow along?
Take seriously what's being said about the role of sex
in this whole thing about marriage, right?
Right.
We don't, biblically speaking,
this is when you talk,
biblically speaking, people aren't giving advice on marriage.
They're only talking about sex.
So even Jesus and Paul,
like the only time they're referring to marriage
is talking about sex.
And that is, I think, a big piece of the problem today,
why so many people of faith are kind of hung up on
the way people are gonna be having sex.
If we let, and I have air quotes here
for those who are just listening and not watching,
if we let people, two men, two women, get married,
then what kind of sex are they gonna be having?
As if it's anyone's business, right?
But biblically speaking,
that's all people are talking about.
I mean, chapter, first Corinthians seven
is a chapter where Paul is addressing,
whether or not married couples should abstain from having sex.
And then if you divorce, should you remarry?
And the whole thing is about the issue of sex,
the whole chapter.
I mean, he's talking about different widows
and virgins and all this stuff.
And the issue is around your lack of self-control
or having self-control.
And it's just, it's a little bit mind-numbing, to be honest,
that how much this is teaching people
to think this way still, right?
To think about, oh, that's my other thought,
really quick before I forget.
When I'm standing, I remember standing in front of students
for the first time, trying to bring,
trying to invite them to consider talking about,
trying to get them to consider separating marriage and sex.
Because they were so well-trained
on this idea of no sex before marriage
that when you're talking about procreating,
then of course you're talking about marriage.
But that's not true.
That isn't true.
We're putting that on it
because we've been taught to think that way.
And so truly to get someone to say, to think about
or talk about sex in any kind of normal, comfortable way
outside of marriage, this is almost impossible
with like 90% of the Christians on the planet
to get them to talk about sex in a healthy way,
comfortable way, and to say,
we're not talking about marriage here,
we're just talking about sex.
And it's okay that there are people having sex
and they aren't married.
Like that step alone is a hard one to get most people
who read the Bible to be okay with.
It's interesting what you've said so far,
I think is very interesting about sex and marriage.
You have a really well said spot in your book.
I'm gonna read it here and share the screen for a second
and I'm just gonna bounce back to your presentation.
We need to air out this nugget as well.
Is it true that the primary defining element
of a marriage today is having sex together?
Does it not matter that you build lives
and families together and network of friends,
combine your resources, share joys and sorrows alike,
celebrate and mourn together?
Are these things not even more important
in terms of the bonds you create
than whether or not you climax together?
I love that statement.
I'm gonna come back to your side here.
But I love that statement because what is the most valuable
part of marriage in my experience after 17 years,
it is that bond, it is that I have someone I trust
that I can rely, that I have a partner who has my back,
my best interests that I could share moments with,
that I can talk to when I'm down,
that I can smile with when things are going good.
Like that is the most important.
One additional plus is that I'm attracted to her.
And that's even more fun when you add everything up,
but yeah, anyway.
Yeah, thank you.
I actually, in my mind, I was like,
I wonder if I'm gonna get to ask Derek that,
like what are the top five things.
I'm just laying it out there.
It's great, I appreciate it,
but that's, and thank you for that,
that is for that quote, sharing that quote.
Okay, so here's the thing.
Jesus doesn't ever say something positive about marriage.
He is not depicted ever saying something positive
about marriage.
Can we just say that a few more times,
all like maybe make a chant out of it?
Jesus is not depicted being positive about marriage.
Wow.
Wow is right.
I mean, this is not a marriage-friendly guy.
He's not a family-friendly guy.
Like Jesus is not your guy for family values.
Can we please take that more seriously?
Yeah, but what about the,
what about all the conservatives who are demanding
that we wanna keep the, what do they call it?
Biblical marriage?
Yeah, biblical traditional household, right?
Like, anyway, I'm just throwing that out there
because there's a lot of fundamentalists
who use the Bible to try and justify
what they think a household's supposed to look like.
When Jesus himself is doing something
radically different, I think.
Yeah, exactly, and yeah, there's biblical text
to endorse man as the head of the household
and the woman is barefoot pregnant.
That's not fair.
The woman is staying at home
and is having children and is taking care of the house.
Like, sure, that's biblical for sure.
And it's appalling that you would expect every single couple
to want to fall into that role, those two roles.
That might work for some, but it does not work for all.
Right.
And that is the problem.
That's when it's a problem.
When you think that it has to be this one way.
But yeah, so I think, you know,
like chapter three on Matthew 19
and then chapter seven on New or Testament passage,
other New or Testament references,
like those two, in my opinion,
in a sense, it's all a Christian
actually really needs to read
because this conversation today,
this is a political conversation,
this is a personal conversation issue,
this is religious, it's all the things.
It affects everybody, even if you are not,
you know, a gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender person,
it does affect you
because it's affecting the people you know and love.
And so, you know, when people say they want
a biblical marriage or they want to only endorse
a biblical marriage, you know,
they really don't know what the Bible says
because I think they mean they want it to be loving,
they want to have each other's backs,
they want to be grounded in their faith
and in what God has taught them
in terms of loving each other.
And I think they mean something beautiful,
but then they also think that the Bible says, you know,
that it's only between a man and a woman,
they think it says all these things,
but it doesn't say all those things.
And then you're also missing
what your main guy is saying.
So...
What I love about what you just said is,
I'm sure you're gonna get what I'm saying,
and most of the audience will,
is they have derailed from the biblical meaning.
They might cherry pick certain ideas they like,
but they've really derailed
from the context of the scripture
and have kind of formulated their own version
of a Christian life based on a model of Christ
they have in their head,
which is nothing like the text is saying,
based on a God in their head that is arguably
nothing like we could point to the text is saying,
without having some of the dated out outdated,
I would say, or dated is same thing.
Concepts about God, apocalypticism,
you know, the asceticism of philosophy at the day,
et cetera, et cetera,
like they mean well and they have good intentions,
but they don't have anything remotely
to the biblical or textual image that's being painted.
Right, right, exactly.
There is no biblical.
So why do they need it?
I'm just being,
I mean, why do they need the Bible in order to, anyway?
No, I know, and I know you know the answer to that too.
Like it's, you know, people have,
people have given it authority.
People have given it power over them
because they believe that it is, you know,
descended from heaven straight from God,
like what God wants for them.
If I had a dollar for every time a student said to me,
you know, that the Bible is what God wants us to know
and learn and all these things.
I'm like, is it, but is it really?
I know why you think that.
Let's talk about that, you know.
Okay, now I see this is why I had to have the power board
because I like, I get up on all these random tangents.
So is it okay to, like, so this is the thing.
I wanna do talk about the Unix,
although I have to be honest,
I really only read one article talking about Unix
in the first century and it was a great article
and I actually have it linked on my website.
If anyone wants to go read it,
it's Jesus, the post-gender Jesus.
Trigger warning.
Yeah, I know, I know.
And it's a great article
and it, and he has all kinds of primary sources referenced,
which is why I think it's a great article.
So you can go find the other, you know,
primary sources if you wanna read all about it.
So that was the, from just to heads up,
like I did not, I am not an expert on Unix.
Right, I just was trying to understand a little bit better
this passage in Matthew 19.
So here's the thing, Jesus does say, right,
he lists three ways that people become Unix.
And so just so we're clear, okay, somebody doesn't know,
being a Unix means that you are a male in body,
you have a penis and testicles
and you have at least the testicles removed.
Sometimes it's the whole package.
Yep.
But so I'm touring with like just reading the passage
or just...
Yeah, I know that you should,
I think you should because he literally in,
it's in one passage, it tells you all three options.
It's not long, yeah.
And you know, so here's the thing,
here the premise is he is approached by Pharisees
and they're asking him about divorce.
And so the fact that people say,
this is one of the four passages
that defines biblical marriage is kind of funny to me
because it's not talking about marriage,
it's talking about whether or not you,
for which reason is Jesus okay with divorce?
That's what they're saying, they're asking him.
This is a debate that has been going on
for at least 200 years before Jesus hits the scene.
So the first couple of exchanges back and forth
is a well-worn debate.
And he's just showing that he knows the debate.
They're asking him which option he prefers.
And then he lays on some stuff in verse nine.
And so verse nine is not included in the passage
that people quote for biblical marriage.
It's just four through six that people quote.
And that isn't Jesus.
Those aren't Jesus's words, those are Rabbi's words
and ways of engaging Genesis chapters one and two.
And the stuff that Jesus says that's new
is in verse nine and verse 12.
And that is not brought into the conversation
about marriage for Christians.
Why not?
Yeah, it gets ignored, completely ignored.
It's irrelevant to what they're trying to do.
They have this kind of agenda in their mind
and how they're reading it.
And those two schools mainly that were floating around
was Hillel and Shemai.
You were talking in your book, you write about this
just for those who are interested.
It seems you have a good friend as well, a new top fan.
She doesn't know how to interpret scripture.
She is ridiculous, she doesn't.
Yeah, that's funny.
You have a best friend too, yay.
I do, I have a new fan.
Did Jesus really mean pluck your eye out?
She's a professor, she can't speak in full sentences.
Well, you get excited like me.
I do, I do get excited.
We do this, but I wanna defend you for a second
and just say my friend read her book
because she goes into the hyperbole of much of this.
At least she interprets it as hyperbole there.
But you also cover how in this context,
it would be kind of ridiculous to think he means hyperbole
when he's talking about eunuchs.
Anyway, go ahead.
No, thank you for that.
I do, I start out this chapter, chapter three,
talking about hyperbole and how it usually just is,
you know, right, did he mean pluck your eye out?
Did he mean cut your right hand off?
Interestingly enough, that is actually part of the problem
is that so many people don't know that that's hyperbole.
And there was actually an episode in Grey's Anatomy
where a guy tries to cut his masturbating hand off
because he can't stop, he feels guilty for the pleasure
and he feels like his right hand is causing him to sin,
so he needs to cut it off.
Like, that doesn't make it to Grey's Anatomy
unless there's a reason for it to make it to Grey's Anatomy.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, yeah.
People do not get that it is,
and so back to Jennifer's comment though,
people don't get it's hyperbole
and they take this comment about divorce to heart.
They say he's saying no to divorce.
Well, which is it?
Are we gonna say it's hyperbole?
Are we, you know, like the thing about divorce, right?
Is it hyperbole or isn't it not?
And do we get to just, anyway,
so let me just read the passage.
Sure.
Yeah, okay.
Some Pharisees came to him and to test him, they asked,
is it lawful for a man to divorce his woman,
my English says wife, for any cause?
He answered, have you not read
that the one who made them at the beginning, quote,
made the male and female, end quote,
that's from Genesis 127 and said, quote,
for this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother
and be joined to his woman, my English says wife,
and the two shall become one flesh, end quote.
So they are no longer two, but one flesh.
Therefore, what God has joined together,
let no one separate.
So many things I want to say about that.
I'm gonna just keep reading though.
They said to, they said to him, why then did most,
I mean, can we, so, you know, like,
what God has joined together, let no one separate, like...
Can I show you something?
Yeah, that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right.
What God has joined together down here with the Roman numeral,
my wife has the other half of the verse.
I know, I know.
We got this way back years back.
So, anyway.
No, it's, I mean, and it's one,
anyway, it's one thing to say that that is your belief,
but the pain and the way that becomes oppressive
in terms of preventing people from being honest about,
this relationship is done, or this relationship is abusive,
or all of the other things about this, right?
So when you say that two people having sex,
they are now joined together for all eternity,
like that is incredibly, actually,
it's a form of like it's control and abuse, anyway, okay.
Verse seven, they said to him,
then why then did Moses command us
to give a certificate of dismissal and to divorce her?
He said, it's because you were heart-hearted
that Moses allowed you to divorce your women,
my English as wives, but from the beginning it was not so.
And I say to you, and here's how he starts
ratcheting things up, right?
He takes the Jewish law and he ratchets it up, right?
Over and over again.
Whoever divorces his woman, my English as wife,
except for unchastity and marries another commits adultery.
This is sure, hyperbole, sure,
but it is the reason that the church says no divorce.
So which is it, right?
Catholics in particular are really stringent about it,
but most of the Protestants I knew I grew up with, right?
Divorce is a sin, divorce is wrong, don't get divorced.
So can we talk about the why, right?
That was what this other piece, right?
But why?
Why is it a problem?
And it's a problem, not because back to you and Ryan,
I'm not trying to wish anything negative
on you all, but if that were to happen,
it would be awful, it would be devastating,
and it's hard for the children,
to pull families apart, right?
You love members of each other's families
and to lose all that, that's why it's a problem, right?
And in the context, and people will say this,
well, Jesus was also potentially protecting women, right?
Because if men, and this was part of the debate, right?
If men were divorcing their women because they're a lousy cook
and we have textual evidence,
even if they're being sarcastic,
we have textual evidence that says
that sometimes that's what was happening, right?
Just for random, stupid reasons, men could divorce
and women had no say in it, right?
So people are saying, well,
what if he's trying to protect the women
because that's just being too flippant about it?
The man is gonna be okay, but she is out,
she's stranded and that's awful.
And I think there's an element
that I think that's a fair comment to make,
but that's not what's really going on that I care about.
What I care about is why this is a problem.
And he's saying, this is all about sex.
Marriage is defined by sex.
A man takes a woman, does sex to her,
because that's how it's talked about.
It's a man is active and the woman is a passive receiver.
And gosh, that's boring.
And, right, and it's, you can't actually have sex
before marriage because having sex
is what shows that you're married and all those things.
And that's it, like the focus is on the fact
that divorce is a problem here because there's an assumption
that both partners are gonna go off and remarry
and that will be, you will be having an affect,
you will be adulterizing on your first marriage,
like that he says this and that people don't stop
to talk about this piece is what I find fascinating, right?
He is perpetuating, I've said this two times already today,
I'm gonna say it again, right?
He's perpetuating an ancient way of looking at bodies
and relationships and sex.
And that is, I'm not okay with that, right?
You know, I even just toyed with like,
should I ask Derek, do he and Ryan think
that they own each other?
No, right?
Yeah, no, I mean, we have a very close bond,
we're dependent on each other, but no, we don't, not at all.
Right, I mean,
That doesn't mean you don't have like certain things
that you give each other that like,
hey, if you have any insecurity issues
that ever come up or anything,
you have all rights to be able to help your own mind
in those situations,
cause you know, we've been together 17 years,
in my younger years, I wasn't as mature today
as I was today, you know what I mean?
Yeah, so all these things, okay,
so then let's get on to the next, okay.
So, and then he goes on, so he says,
he drops this like, and I tell you,
few divorce and remarry, you're committed adultery,
like that's just, just don't do it, right?
So is this a positive about marriage?
I don't think so, I'm not sure that's,
he's trying to say something positive about marriage, right?
And then his disciples hear this comment
about divorcing and remarrying is committing adultery.
And their response is,
if such is the case of a man with his woman,
my English has wife, it is better not to marry.
And he does not talk them off their ledge.
He actually changes the conversation.
So again, he is suggesting by his silence
that it might be better not to marry to begin with,
strike number four or five, right?
And then he then lays down this thing,
this really fascinating and bizarre teaching, right?
But he said to them, not everyone can accept this teaching,
but only those to whom it is given.
And there's a debate, do, do, is that word,
is that comment about what they were just talking about
or is that comment about what's coming?
And my, my sense is it's what's about to be laid down
because blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I mean, I have reasons for that, but I don't want, you know,
it's what he's about to say.
For there are eunuchs who've been so from birth.
Some people are born this way, right?
There are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by others.
And there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs
for the sake of the kingdom of heaven.
Let anyone accept this who can.
So there are a couple of things to point out here.
One is most people today, within Christian traditions
at least, have been taught to think
that he's talking about celibacy,
which is hilarious when you read about eunuchs
in the first century.
But it was a choice made by a bishop in the fourth century
to start looking at this passage about eunuchs
as meaning that Jesus is endorsing celibacy.
Okay, so no, that's not what he's endorsing.
Now, whether or not he's endorsing all of the actions
of eunuchs, I don't know,
but a eunuch in the first century
and long before and long after was known to be,
you know, active with both men and women sexually.
I've had so many people in the last few weeks
kind of yell at me in the comments
that, no, they were just bottoms.
No, they're not, they're not having sex.
Think about it.
You know, I'm like, oh, I have.
That's lots, I've spent lots of time thinking
about eunuchs and sex.
And the fact that, guess what, folks,
throughout history, elite women, women of some means,
prefer to having sex with eunuchs
because the automatic birth control, right?
A man who is castrated after puberty can still,
many can still get an erection.
And also the other piece that I just think is hilarious
about this is since he doesn't have his testes,
you know, he's not having sex.
Okay, how do you define sex?
Because it's more than just penis and vagina, right?
Right, right.
Like, this is so, like heteronormative, of course,
but it is so, everybody is showing their cards
on how boring their sex lives are.
Right?
If you think that, you know what I mean?
Like, no, there's all kinds of sensuality
that's a part of this too.
And there's all kinds of things that are part,
goodness, people.
And so the fact that people are so worked up
over this thing, you know,
they're worked up over the wrong thing, it seems to me.
Eunuchs were known to be sexually active
with men and women.
Just sit on that for a minute,
and like sit with that for a minute, right?
Eunuchs were talked about in ways that,
I mean, there are even texts that refer to them
as a third gender in the Latin.
They were talked about in really rude and awful ways.
And so we know there are people
on the outskirts of their society, right?
So there are so many things about this
that Jesus is embracing.
It's almost as if Eunuchs were even more,
you know, outcast than the tax collectors
and sex workers, right?
So he's embracing human beings,
some who've chosen to do this to themselves.
So we could raise questions about like,
what that tells us about ancient people,
about people throughout the ages
who have wanted to change their body, right?
This is a thing.
If it's a thing now, it's always been a thing, right?
But, oh, damn it, I lost my train of thought again.
That's so true, dude.
That's so true.
Right?
Yeah, yeah.
You lost your train of thought?
I did, I do this every now and then I get all excited,
and then I'm like, let's take it, yeah, let's talk about it.
Well, I like what you're saying
just to make a comment about that.
We see a trend throughout the Gospels
that Jesus always goes to the less fortunate,
to the ostracized, to those who are kind of seen
as like, keep them away from the rest of us.
They're not us.
People with leprosy, yeah, like women, poor slaves,
obviously people with illnesses.
And then here we are with this group
that's being favored over a normal,
normal as they would call it,
man and woman being married in this typical ancestral custom
that he has been passed down.
And here he is saying, you know, I get that, you know,
I'm not like, I'm not changing that
because you guys wouldn't accept my teachings
if I just said shit on this whole marriage thing.
Right, right, right.
These guys here, the eunuchs, they're on the right track.
And you should try, if you can handle it,
you should be like these eunuchs,
whether you became one, whether you were born one,
or, and this I think is why origin,
as far as I'm aware, did the do, cut the package.
And, yeah, yes, no, Derek, he did, origin did,
but here's the thing, the practice of self-castration
was so popular that the very first thing
that the Council of Nicaea weighed in on
was on that issue.
Like I grew up in a church that said
one of the either the Nicene Creed
or the Apostles Creed every Sunday,
I know what the Nicene Creed says, you know,
but it doesn't say anything.
I've never said anything about castrate.
Yeah, the very first decision they made
was that if you have self-castrated, right,
you do not get to be a leader in the church.
Like it was that popular,
enough men were doing it that they felt,
that these guys felt like they need to weigh in on it.
So that's, they're not taking it as a joke.
They're not taking it as hyperbole.
Men were taking this very seriously, very literally.
And so what does it say that Jesus is embracing somebody
who is non-binary, gender-wise,
who is potentially quite adept at sex
in lots of ways with men and women.
And he's not saying there's anything wrong with that.
Like he's embracing these people.
What does that say?
I mean, look, if someone might get really, really all
butt-hurt about what you just said and go,
well, give me the proof that they were messing with these
people and of course your article,
I imagine it goes into this.
Yes, that's why I make it available.
But I do want to mention one thing.
And I try to get my mom to think outside
of the old school box.
She's still used to the way things have always been.
And I try to address and have her think outside of it.
And then I point out, some people think that this type
of sex that you think is normal is actually gross.
They think that and well, they're gross.
And I'm like, oh, so it's your opinion
versus their opinion.
My point is, we have examples of Jesus going to women
who have done things according to the story.
They're being, what was the, we call her the sending woman,
that he forgives her sins.
And like he doesn't say anything like corrective
in that passage from what I understand.
He just forgives her sins for that, what she did.
I could be mistaken.
I'd have to reread it.
I think it's in John chapter eight.
Are you talking about John chapter eight?
Yeah, he actually does say go and sin no more.
Okay, is that okay?
No, I like to take issue with that whole thing
because who said that she was sitting to begin with?
Right, I mean, we don't know the scenario.
Like, of course, according their ways of thinking
about things, but their way of thinking
about things is really messed up.
It's very judgmental and it is very negative about sex.
And sex is only for a particular place and time.
Like this is, I'm sorry, that is really, really not
the only way to look at that, about bodies and sex.
And if she's a sex worker, how is she gonna stop?
Like, if that's how she's supporting herself
and he tells her to go sin no more,
like, I wanna tell him to fuck off.
Like, no, this is not the right way to handle any of this,
right?
You didn't apologize to her for the way they brought her in
in front of a whole temple full of men
and stood her in front of everybody and said,
look, what should we do with her?
Like you didn't apologize to her for that.
The way she was used as a pawn in this whole situation.
Like, I feel like, okay, Jesus had a nice thing to say.
He doesn't, you know, he doesn't judge her or he forgives her.
That's nice, but that's not enough.
Right.
I love how you just undermine the whole thing
and have us challenge the entire idea.
And it makes me wonder, you know, hypothetically,
I think it's a narrative.
I don't know if there's any historical memory
to that at all, but it makes me think like,
if we wanna play the hypotheticals,
how many of these men were sleeping with her, right?
Exactly.
Who are then turning around, go, oh, yeah,
look at this woman who's, you know,
they're not frowned upon again.
But as far as the Unix, though,
I had a question that it's kind of a hypothetical here.
Do you think this Unix idea is being brought up
based on asceticism in a philosophical sense,
apocalypticism in some way?
Like, hey, neither gonna be given in taking a marriage
because in the resurrection, sorry,
because it's like, we're all gonna be gods.
You have this very strange idea
of becoming the bride of Christ.
And I as this alpha patriarchal man growing up
and young newlywed and all that in my Bible
kept reading these passages about,
I'm gonna be Christ bride.
You know, here I am, this man.
How the hell am I gonna be Jesus's wife?
I mean, this doesn't make any sense.
I'm the man, you know, like, I'm just expressing.
No, that's good.
I'm glad you thought that.
What's going on with this?
I never understood it.
No, you should.
I mean, I'm glad that you did.
It does, Paul says it and they say it's implied
in Revelation that he's gonna marry either
the city of Jerusalem that has the new city of Jerusalem
which is just descended from the heavens
or the 144,000 male virgins.
Take your pick.
Yep.
Right, that's in there.
Like, that's biblical.
Like, I'm not a fan of apocalyptic literature.
The book of Revelation is my least favorite,
probably book in the Bible, but like,
why are we not taking this more seriously?
And your point about being the bride of Christ, right?
The church has historically only allowed men, right,
to be the head of the church.
And so if the church is married to Christ,
we've got a male-male wringler there, yeah.
Right.
So, and yet he's identifying her as his bride.
It's all kinds of confusing.
Go ahead.
Yeah, but just Unix again is,
do you have a particular leaning of like,
maybe it's a mixture of both?
I don't know, what are your thoughts?
Essentially why does he bring up Unix right now?
And in which way do we make sense of it?
I like your question.
I think it's a good, I think it's a good question to ask.
I really honestly have not figured out
what I think of that because,
because it's like, it comes out of nowhere.
And it's Matthew.
I mean, Matthew's kind of late, you know,
like all the things about it, like what?
There is something more to this, right?
I do think the question about asceticism is appropriate.
Like I think that's a good place to start
in terms of this kind of practice was happening
in certain groups.
You know, it's not like this was a new thing, right?
It's not like this is all of a sudden happening.
We have records of people treating men this way
for centuries before Jesus hits the scene, right?
So, but I don't know why I have not,
I just haven't decided what I want,
how to make sense of it.
And I think that's because I am more in the,
as a biblical scholar, I'm more interested in just,
let's be very honest about what is being said
because so many people base their lives,
they think on what the Bible says.
And so in a sense, I don't really care how it got there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I just want to talk about it,
but I think it's a helpful thing to ask
and to look into where did this come from.
So another way of putting it is that we don't,
well, let's just assume we aren't sure,
asceticism, apocalyptism, or in some way,
there's a mingling, one or the other might be true.
The point is we have some pretty,
we can identify what a eunuch is, contextualize a eunuch,
understand that this is definitely an unorthodox position,
even to Jesus's Jewish following and disciples,
they're shocked, what the hell is this, man?
What do you mean?
What do you mean about marriage
in light of the debate of the day,
from Hillel to Shemai?
And then here he is going, I'm going beyond these guys.
I'm saying eunuchs are the way to go.
These are the best.
And so you're not even necessarily saying with certainty
that Jesus's eunuchs he's describing
are sexually active necessarily.
You are saying contextualizing eunuchs in that period,
when you do, you find out they were sexually active,
even with their junk half cut off or completely gone,
they were active in-
They were adept.
With other people.
That's the word that's used.
Yes, they were adept.
Yeah, whether or not all eunuchs were,
but some were, right?
That's the thing, some were.
And there are reasons.
I mean, there are lots of reasons to,
I think to see why that would be the case, right?
These outcast people, who do you turn to
when you need a little something, something, right?
If you're not married or whatever,
like the fact that there are sex workers out there
makes me think this makes perfect sense to me,
that someone who is that,
who is ostracized in society in that kind of a way.
I mean, the things that are said about them
and are just so negative and unpleasant and cruel.
And there are, you know, it's not just here or there,
there are stories, there are stereotypes,
there are aphorisms, there are sayings,
there are like all kinds of these characters,
these people show up as characters
in all kinds of ways in the ancient world, in the writings.
So they were prevalent enough, right?
And known to be this state.
So, you know, it's kind of a fascinating thing to me
to think that I think, you know, I think I have to,
if I were to try to make a stand,
I would say it's more about apocalypticism, right?
That we're not gonna be around long enough
to have many more children anyway.
I don't know, I just-
I like what you just said there
and I need to ask you just to clarify,
we've been talking about sex as a context for marriage.
What does sex usually involve in their mindset
based on the literature, reproduction?
They're all about children, carrying on the seed,
be fruitful, multiply, these kinds of concepts.
Is that a correct assessment?
And then when you have eunuchs,
you clearly have someone not fertile, cannot reproduce,
because the man, quote unquote, is always the one
who is producing the children based on the text,
which is kind of nuts to think about.
But I mean, obviously we play a role,
but like they act like we're carrying the damn baby.
So anyway-
You do, they tended to think of it that way,
that the semen was just a little baby that just needed to grow.
Right, little, I'm the one with the baby
and I'm just putting him in the oven
to microwave him for nine months
and then he's gonna come out hot and ready, so.
That's right, that's right.
Was there a question in there
or something I need to respond to?
Because I think-
I just was saying sex is, so marriage, right?
We have to think as sex, but when we think of sex,
we should think of reproduction, I imagine.
So you have this linear idea that reproduction
is the utility of marriage in a way.
Yes.
In their mind.
Yep, yep.
Okay.
Yeah.
Which is why to talk about eunuch in the context of divorce
or marriage or whatever is like, what?
He just went entirely a different direction
and then embraces them and says,
whoever can accept this, let anyone accept this, who can?
I mean, first, basically, I just kind of love it.
I just kind of love that it's in there, right?
This isn't taken seriously at all.
I remember having a conversation with someone
like six years ago or so.
He's very conservative, evangelical,
and we were talking about biblical marriage
and we're talking about this thing.
And I said, well, so-and-so.
Well, what about Jesus' comments about eunuchs?
And he physically shook.
Like, it was too, I can't talk about that.
Like, it was just, no, we can't go there.
I'm like, so you're telling me that verses four, five,
and six are essential for you,
but five verses later, not so much?
Like, I don't-
Right.
Can we talk about that?
Yep.
Okay, I think I've done with my slide show.
Okay, okay.
I'm gonna, yeah, I'm moving from this.
So anyway, so that's the, you know,
why do I care that Jesus talks about eunuchs?
I care because I think it's really interesting.
And I don't know if he actually said that thing
about eunuchs, but it's put in there.
And then let's talk about what that means then, right?
In the first century, that means
he's embracing a non-binary person
who couldn't be reproduced,
which is one of the defining elements of biblical marriage,
according to most people, right?
Reproduce.
And they can't.
And Jesus is upholding him,
upholding that kind of a guy in the middle
of one of the biblical, like there are four passages, right?
That people turn to to define biblical marriage.
And at the end of the third one,
Jesus undermines the whole thing, right?
Like, am I making sense?
Yes.
The four passages for people who don't know
or would like to know, Genesis 128, Genesis 224,
Matthew 19, four to six, and Ephesians 5, 31 and 32.
That's, those are the passages that people say
define biblical marriage if a person uses that phrase.
And at the end of that passage, Matthew 19, right?
Jesus undermines the first one, right?
Genesis 128 says, be fruitful and multiply.
And Jesus is upholding eunuchs who cannot be fruitful
or multiple.
Like, can we just talk about that?
Or think it through, just think it through a little bit.
It might shock you to go, why?
And then you might have questions.
You might have a, you might draw something like,
ah, yeah, he did believe the end was gonna happen soon.
That raises other problems.
For those who still think the future
or something's gonna happen, which I've, you know,
again, do I need to go down this path
of felt apocalyptic expectation?
And then the other is, if it's aesthetic
and it's based on philosophy,
if we just granted that for the sake of it.
Because I think there is a sense
in which the early church has this notion.
And to combat that, you get these forged letters
in the name of Paul, I imagine.
Because I think Paul was a,
I imagine Paul was a be fruitful and multiply guy,
but tomorrow, Jesus is coming back.
So, ah, don't worry about it kind of thing.
I can't, I don't know.
But they put it into his mouth.
Women, you're a baby-making machine, as you well know.
In order to be saved, you need to have kids.
What about the ladies who can't have children?
So there's so many questions that you have to ask.
And if they ask, if you ask those questions,
you might soften up your contemporaneous views
about current events and current people.
In fact, I guess another way to paint it to you, Dr. Byrd,
help me if I'm on the right track.
If Jesus were here today, who would he be hanging out with?
Who would he be trying to defend?
And who would he be wanting to probably help in light of?
Now, I know there are other factors
based on his antiquity and morals,
but scratch the fact that he's a Jew
and in this region of the world, 2,000 years ago,
who has, you get my point though, like, like.
Yeah, I think I do.
Okay, so he's in the conservative camp
and he's ruffling feathers with them
and he's going, actually, you guys know.
No, we're gonna need to be more liberal
about some of these things.
In fact, I mean, in a sense,
you could argue in some ways he's doing that,
not completely slavery, not quite, you know.
Right, and at the same time, you know,
in earlier, he's endorsed this view of marriage, right?
That perpetuates women seeing and valuing women as objects,
right, because that's what the sex thing is.
Like, that part really is unsettling to me.
Biblically speaking, the way sex is talked about,
it is an action that a man does to another person,
primarily women, but also enslaved peoples.
That is just so unsettling to me.
And that is still in the air.
It's in the ethos that we're seeing Jesus
replicate and talk about and he's not challenging that.
You mean he doesn't have some form of omniscience?
I'm teasing.
I know you're teasing,
and I certainly used to think that way for sure, right?
Other than the day or hour.
He knows everything except the day and hour
that, you know, the Son of Man will come.
Yeah, but he obviously isn't aware of this.
This brings other questions,
and I think that this was implied in getting your thoughts
before we go to Q and A, if that's okay with you,
is we should stop going to Jesus for our,
I think this is like the implied conclusion.
Stop going to Jesus' teachings
as if they are the go-to for all.
Yeah, like we can find good things there.
You highlight some of these discussions
are even already prevalent before him in other figures.
Cool, but then like let's be objective and look at him
and go, yeah, that wasn't a smart, nah, that's wrong.
Nope, what about the woman?
He's not thinking about this, you know, according to the text.
Yeah, yeah, you know, I think there are two different ways
that I tend to think about this.
When people say something like,
okay, same-sex marriage is not allowed
because it's not in the Bible.
I'm like, well, that is a true statement,
but neither is a marriage based upon two equals,
choosing it and based on love.
That is not demonstrated anywhere in the Bible, either.
So are you gonna base your whole premise?
Are you gonna stake your claims on,
it has to be in the Bible in order for it to be okay today?
Right.
There's that side, right?
And then the flip side is, you know,
there's more going on in the Bible
than you seem to just be aware of, right?
You know, this is big stuff in my opinion.
And we're not acknowledging that
in these conversations about marriage.
There are other things going on with Jesus
that you and I aren't touching on today,
which is totally, I didn't want to
because it's a lot to tackle at once.
You know, and honestly, Derek,
I think even for myself, like in my own journey
in this like life as, you know,
I was a formerly an evangelist
and then I went to seminary
because I wanted to study biblical languages.
And then I kind of just progressed
in these ways of thinking.
And even for me, like it was hard to see these things
that are being put in Jesus' mouth.
It was hard to see some of the other things I talk about,
say in chapter 10, only heteros,
like it was hard for me to see
what was actually going on at times.
It's hard for me to see Paul mocking Anesimus
in his letter to Philemon.
He's making fun of him.
I mean, you don't have an enslaved person.
Sorry, I don't want to get into that.
I shouldn't have opened that can of worms,
but you know, like it's hard for me to see
that Paul says things that are actually really harmful
or rude or cruel.
That's hard for me to acknowledge
because that guy was important to me for a long time.
And even if I'm not tracking with him anymore,
it's still hard to change the way I think about that.
And so there are things depicted.
There are things in the gospel of John about Jesus
that are depicted about him
that made me uncomfortable at first
to come to terms with.
I think that needs to be said, right?
Like just because I have a different relationship
to these texts than I used to,
it took me some time to get there.
And so one of the things that I think I'm trying to say here
is this is a process for people for whom
the Bible is or used to be important.
It's still a process to work through all these things.
But I think it's worth doing
because this is a conversation.
This is affecting people's lives, right?
Your book, you described that quite well
because I think that's true for anyone,
no matter where you are, no matter what you believe.
You may be a Christian watching today
who can get behind much of what is said,
may not agree with much of what is said.
You could be someone who's obviously not a Christian
or whatever you are, theist, non-theist, agnostic,
doesn't matter where you're at.
I think we're all on a journey trying to figure out,
trying to get to the answers,
be as close to what maybe is the case.
I don't know, that's my interest is what was the context,
what did the text imply?
But you kind of hold the hand of the reader in this book
and kind of take us down through the journey
of thinking through these things from various angles.
And what is interesting about what you just said
about Paul or the Gospel of John describing Jesus
in certain ways or things Jesus said that were offensive
or really caught your eyes that these problems,
I'd be interested in the chronology
of your experience through that journey
because I did not read these as this patriarchal household
man who grew up traditional home,
this is the way things should be.
I never read those problems
and could even see those problems.
The problems for me started with failed
apocalyptic expectations, it was different things.
And then I kind of work backwards I feel
towards what you're saying and starting to recognize,
hold on, Paul's pissed, Paul's angry, Paul, is he a liar?
I mean, you even asked the question
that the Bible is saying he isn't
because he says I am not a liar.
Well, you start to feel comfortable asking the question,
is he like?
I mean, a modern example,
he claims to have revelation, right?
Many people have claimed revelation,
Ezekiel documents, a book of revelation documents,
these things, people throughout history
of documents, these things.
Someone says they met Tupac or they met Elvis Presley.
And guess what?
Elvis Presley has a message,
and this is a message that he never told the people
when he was alive, but he's telling me
after his death in his celestial form,
and I'm conveying this prophecy or this revelation
that was revealed to me by Elvis himself
that is different or even contrary to the thing,
and so you should trust me.
You would pause, but because we were raised or taught
or we had an emotional experience,
some psychological experience when we went in
that helped us get off drugs,
that helped us mend our broken lives, our marriage.
Financially, we attribute it to something
that went positive as soon as I became a Christian,
next thing in my life changed,
or there's a sense of community,
the list goes on and on and on.
All of that doesn't matter if we just ignore it.
I'm not interested in ignoring these things.
I wanna look at them and say, human.
And once you recognize that,
back to my point about the Bible,
and you live this life and you're like,
well, I have purpose and meaning in my life.
You are attributing it to a book, but the book isn't it.
You already have those things, and you think it's the book.
You think it's that thing.
And anyway, sorry, that's my little rant, I guess.
Do that, yeah, you're allowed.
I'm allowed to rant over once in a while.
It's your party, you can do what you want.
I just, I seriously like always enjoy thinking
outside the box of what I'm gonna be aware of.
We talk about revelation,
I'll read right past mystery Babylon, the whore.
And I just read right past it,
and you're like, did you catch that?
Right, exactly.
Notice she's called the whore,
and it's like, why is she called the whore?
And why is she gonna be gang raped?
And killed, and why are we not disturbed by that?
Right, right.
Yeah.
Or even in, what is it?
I think you're talking about the one in Revelation 2
to the church that maybe,
because I know that it is what's gonna happen to Rome.
I think mystery Babylon's Rome,
but like, obviously she's gonna get destroyed.
And yeah, there is this very grotesque description
of her end, and then you go into Revelation 2
about the woman on her sick bed,
or really it's just a bed,
who men come and lay with her,
and her offspring are gonna be killed by Jesus.
It's not like, we're not able to blame Yahweh here.
According to this text, it's Jesus.
This is in Bart Ehrman's recent...
It's in Revelation 22.
Mm-hmm, in Revelation 22.
Yeah.
So Bart Ehrman brings that up, you said?
Yeah, Bart Ehrman brings it up.
Of course, this is like a well-known scholarly position
that Jesus is going to kill her offspring, her children.
And then the men are gonna get afflictions.
It doesn't describe what those afflictions are,
and they're gonna lay with her.
They're gonna be wooed into her bed with her.
And she is the description, I think, Jezebel.
They call her Jezebel.
And this church that he's condemning
is practicing eating meat sacrificed to idols
and fornication in some way, whatever that means.
Thyatira is the city, or the church.
Yeah, let's think about that for a second.
You know what I mean?
Audience, reader, Christian,
who values the biblical text.
What the heck is going on?
What kind of judgment,
what kind of thing is being implied here
that Jesus is about to do, right?
Unleash some sort of punishment on a woman.
Actually, someone came,
I did a live conversation with my patrons last night
for the first time,
and someone who came actually asked this question.
So I was just talking about it last night.
I know your works, your love, faith, service,
patient endurance,
I know that your last works are greater than first,
but I have this against you.
You tolerate that woman, Jezebel,
who calls herself a prophet
and is teaching and beguiling my servants
to practice fornication and to eat food sacrificed to idols.
I gave her time to repent,
but she refuses to repent of her fornication.
Beware, I just wanna comment on the fact
that we call any kind of sinning
is being called fornication.
Because, right, so the ancient Israelite people
were being called a whore,
they're being called, you know,
they as a people are being depicted as a female
and are being judged,
and their wrongdoings are being,
some are being, you know, talked about or judged
through this negative sex,
this negative role within sex.
And it's like, why do we keep,
why do you keep calling them a female
in order to judge,
in order to embarrass them or whatever?
And then also this sexualization
of what you deem their wrongdoing to be.
So you are calling them a whore
because they're worshiping other gods.
You are called, like, God is saying that to God's own people
and we're supposed to want to be God's people
after the way he's talking about it.
Like, this is a, you know,
it's abusive relationship one-on-one,
but it's throughout the texts.
So no wonder some people have a hard time,
like, seeing the problem.
It's so, and it's prevalent in modern society.
I think that's the reason why, again,
I didn't see the problem.
When I read the Bible for the first time,
when I was in high school,
it was my King James Bible
because I was a King James onlyist, fundamentalist,
I know, I know.
But when I read it through and through,
when I got to these grotesque or very violent passages,
I just hook, line, and sinker,
bought into the perception of the author
because this is divine.
That's right.
So when the author who is divinely inspired
by the Holy Spirit writing God annihilate
every man, woman, and child,
flood all life on earth,
including the animals except two pairs of each kind,
yada, yada, yada.
You know, the story.
I thought, when it said,
well, they were wicked in their heart.
God had every right to do it and it was totally right.
When he talked about raping Israel,
God, God, in my mind,
he had all the right to do so.
It was like I had just,
was wooed into drinking the Kool-Aid
and believed everything it said.
I didn't question it.
And over the years, you obviously can tell,
I am like mainly questioning it
and like showing and exposing these flaws
and things that I didn't recognize.
And it's wild to see that journey go from like full on,
I am on the side of this to hold the hell on
what am I doing?
Like, how did I think that was okay?
And, you know, why did my mind not see it?
Yeah.
Because if I went to any other book
that described Marduk or any other God,
I'd be like, these are demons, these are devils,
you know, and I already have a category
that was not in favor for the horrific things
they were doing.
Now, if I was not coming at it with that angle
and you somehow snuck it into a story,
I did this with my mom.
Why are you not a Christian anymore?
She asked me.
I didn't go because Jesus, because the Bible,
because I knew that she would block off instantly.
I told her a story about Homer's Odyssey
and gave her the Odysseus story in a nutshell
and described this warrior king,
because my dad was a warrior.
He retired Green Beret Special Forces.
He's like, bad ass of a bad ass kind of guy.
And he would go to war and we weren't sure
if that was the last time we'd see him.
And when he'd come back, we cherished every moment we had.
Well, Odysseus returns finally after 20 years.
The story goes, he's back with the love of his life,
Penelope, with all the crazy stories that he had to carry.
And my mom's crying.
She gave me like 15 minutes to describe and go into it.
She's crying by the end of it.
I said, this was sacred to the Greeks.
This was their religion.
This was their everything.
And she's like, I could see a little why.
It's hard for her to see outside her box.
Of course, of course.
But I did something to take it off of the Bible and Jesus
because Christians are gonna watch this
even after this is out and they're gonna turn off.
They're not gonna wanna hear anything.
The first time you laugh about something,
the first time you challenge Jesus,
the first time you say something about the text
and how do we get them to see?
Take it more seriously.
Yeah.
I mean, it's a good question.
It's a good question.
But the thing is ultimately a person has to be willing to.
A person has to be in a place where they want
to have that conversation.
And then it's all, then, yeah, sure.
I think it's also important as you're alluding to,
to have the conversation carefully.
I think it still needs to be a careful conversation.
Respectful.
And one step at a time, one bite at a time, you know?
Well put, yeah, be patient with them.
I mean, somehow I came, I used to fight guys like me
and be like, oh, you're wrong and Jesus and God.
Right, right.
When all you're doing is trying to defend what you believe,
right, then you're not in a place to hear anything.
And that's okay.
Like that's, we're all doing this thing the best we can,
I think, for the most part.
I love that.
That is so good.
I'm ready for super chats if you are.
If there's anything we didn't cover.
I mean, there's so much.
Wait, there's one thing I wanted to clarify, by the way.
This was totally random, but you kind of were throwing
some things out there and then you moved on.
And so it didn't matter, but I wanted to comment
just very briefly.
You referenced women, when you were talking about women,
you know, producing children and blah, blah, blah.
And then you referenced the passage in 1 Timothy
where it says the women will be saved through childbirth.
That's a physical, literal, being spared execution,
not Jesus saving your soul, say.
Like, so when they make that comment,
and that is in the context of,
1 Timothy is written to Timothy and he lived in Ephesus
and then he went back and forth between Ephesus and Crete.
And so anyway, long story short to this,
but the point is when they made that comment,
they're talking about the fact that the followers of Christ
were being arrested.
They were suspect because, you know,
for all these various reasons.
And one of, so one of part of the solution here
is to make sure that women are not choosing not to marry
and that they are producing the babies
that they're supposed to produce to, you know,
we need to support empire and we need soldiers
and all that stuff.
So it's actually a physical safety issue,
not eternal salvation.
What did they, sorry, what did they benefit
by reproducing children?
Was it like the law would skip over them?
Hey, this is a pregnant woman we can't kill her
or what is the physical?
Well, so it goes into a lot of different things,
but part of it is, you know,
that idea that comes from Paul about he wishes all
whereas he was, which is single,
that grew, that was a colonel and a seed that grew.
And so you have this element of early Christian writing
that talks about women.
So this is where the story,
the acts of Paul take the comment to this story
and to view that there's a story about a woman
who chooses not to marry even though she was,
you know, she was supposed to and she has a fiance
and she specifically chooses to just never see him again.
And she, they blame it in the story,
they blame it on Paul coming to town
and saying his crazy things about relationships
and abstaining or whatever.
And so she makes a choice for herself.
I'm not gonna marry.
And her own mother says to burn her alive,
to make a point of her because we don't want
all the women in town making the same choice.
You've got to get married and have babies.
This is what you're supposed to do.
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
So it's almost like an ancient Salem's witch trial
except they're not witches,
they're just choosing not to marry.
That's right.
No, that's right.
They're choosing for themselves what they wanna do.
And it includes specifically not marrying.
Thank you very much.
So there's the colonel, I think,
of what's going on in that.
And this is why I love visiting the site of Ephesus,
by the way, when I take people on a trip,
like a footsteps of Paul trip,
because the town of Ephesus is like,
all these things come together,
the women as leaders and then don't,
I do not permit a woman to teach her authority,
that all comes together in Ephesus.
It's really fun.
Anyway.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, that was the thing that I needed.
Okay, yes.
That was a good point though.
I did not know that.
Okay.
Oh, so fun, so fun.
Yep.
So, moving out the previous ones again.
Jay, thank you so much for the super chats.
Again, thank you for both.
And Jay-Z, long live the Diablo Critics.
Oh, thank you.
That was fun.
Did you know about that, Derek?
Yeah, Diablo Critics.
Yeah, started last week.
The panel, I was actually in the chat a little bit.
That's right, yeah.
Yeah, the whole panel's amazing.
Go over there.
And of course, subscribe to Jennifer Burr.
She's here on the channel, her YouTube channel.
She's growing that presence.
Go show her love, support.
You do streams quite often,
so I hope people will go and participate.
How many?
Once a week, on Thursdays, yeah.
Perfect.
Go subscribe to her channel.
That's in the description.
And this, yeah, it's on Kip Davis's YouTube channel.
Diablo Critics.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, he explained the name.
No, well, it's kind of a random name and he explains it.
We explained it at the beginning of the first session,
if you're curious about what that name means.
Awesome.
JC, how much of Paul's dysfunctions
does Dr. Burr think are grafted on to any core
of historic zealous pro-family Galilean Jesus
in the gospel literature?
Fantastic question.
I'm like, wait, I need five minutes
to dissect this question.
How much of Paul's dysfunctions do I think
are grafted on to any core historic zealous pro-family?
Another way to put it is Paul,
we know chronologically the letters of Paul
are supposed to be earlier than the gospels.
I imagine, yeah, I think JC's asking,
and if I have the question correct,
is how much of Paul's teachings and ideas on these issues
are actually coming out of the mouth of Jesus
in the gospels?
Oh, thank you for that clarification.
If that makes sense of that question.
Yeah, I think that's probably.
Or maybe what do they have in common?
Maybe if you, you know, what does it look like
that Paul and Jesus have in common on this?
I imagine.
Well, I just want to clarify something.
I don't think that we get a pro-family Jesus
in the gospels.
So I want to be clear about that.
I think that we don't have a pro-family Jesus
in the gospels.
I'm gonna say it again.
So that's important actually to note,
especially for people who tout biblical values
and family values.
So that aside, so how much do I think
what we're seeing being put in Jesus' mouth
is actually coming from Paul?
I mean, that's a fun question.
And I do not sure I have a very interesting response
on the spot.
It's a complicated one too, like to try and...
Yeah, it is.
Right, because what Paul is certainly
a very apocalyptic at the beginning.
And then when you get to the latest non,
the pseudonymously attributed to him,
they're very not apocalyptic.
Just like the gospel start off very apocalyptic
and then lose that.
So I'm just trying to think,
well, what does Paul's take on family?
Like his take is he doesn't talk about it much.
And then what does he say in 1 Corinthians?
He talks about, he thinks people should just stay
as they are, whatever it is and not seek to get married
and then not seek to, you know, so pretty negative.
I mean, is that a function of these apocalyptic Jewish guys
in the first century?
Like just that's just the way they're thinking is
this has gotta come to an end soon
and God's gonna come down and destroy our enemies
and set things right again.
And so it doesn't matter.
Right.
I don't know.
But what I do think is fascinating
is that it is never a thing
that Jesus is depicted talking about.
I'm gonna keep saying these things
because I think it's important.
I don't think people sit with that.
Jesus does not talk positive,
doesn't have positive things to say about marriage.
Can we just, and regardless of where it comes from,
but I, you know, I don't give,
here's the thing about Paul and Jesus.
I don't, gosh, that's a big thing to tackle.
The difference between Paul and then what we see
in terms of Jesus, the depiction of Jesus.
Gosh, I don't know how to answer this one.
Yeah, I feel like this, it's a complex
and like there's gonna be,
every scholar's gonna have a different opinion.
Right, I was thinking that too.
Yeah.
There's a whole conversation going on here
about the origins of this movement
and the variety of movements that,
from the get-go, right,
that this sect of Judaism that became,
that was called the way that became Christianity,
like the gospel writers are trying to manage
what Paul's ideas and when they start taking off
and what do we do with that?
I don't know.
Thank you.
Gettysburg Demoniac, just ordered your book,
can't wait to read it.
Thank you.
I am starting the audio for it, by the way.
I was gonna ask you about that
because I was like, it'd be so much,
I go to the gym every morning
and it'd be cool to listen to it and go, okay.
I know that a lot of people actually prefer that.
So yeah, that's why I'm working on it.
Stay tuned and get the book, of course.
Ted Gimberling, forgive me if I butchered that.
Thank you for the super chat, my friend.
And they also did another one they said,
and thank you for that.
What about Paul saying a man can become one flesh
with a prostitute and first Corinthians 6, 15 through 16?
Yes, what, oh shoot, Ted, I'm so sorry.
What is it you are getting at with the question?
What about Paul saying that?
He is saying that, right?
He is reflecting this idea of becoming one
so that yes, when he is saying, right,
like his scriptures have taught him to think
that when two people have sex, they become one.
And so that's one way of looking at things, I think, right?
I don't think it's the only way of looking at this act
of having sex, two people coming together
for some pleasure and some whatever.
I don't think that's the only way to look at it
but it is, you're right, he is saying that here.
Does that mean that he's saying something positive
about marriage, not necessarily, right?
Right.
He is trying to protect it, perhaps?
Sure, we could say that.
He is judging a particular kind of interaction.
It's always fascinating to me also to just to note
that Paul claims to have never, you know, to be celibate
and yet he's sitting here passing judgment
on other people's sexual activity.
I find that really fascinating.
Yeah.
It's fascinating.
Go ahead.
I'm sorry, I was just gonna say there's a lot
in that passage, I was just briefly reading it.
Happy one.
There's a lot, it's kind of, it makes me think,
Paul's thinking of a different kind of family, so to speak.
It's not, it's not, it's, you know,
like you were just describing, it's not pro
what we think of as family in the physical sense.
It sounds almost a spiritual body
but there's a sense in which if you unite yourself
with a prostitute, that your body and our body
is becoming tainted, yeah.
That's what he's saying, yeah.
The community is gonna be tainted by that joining
that you're bringing into our midst or whatever.
Which might fit the previous super chat of saying
when Jesus talks about, they're like your mother
and your brother and who is my mother and my brother?
It's you, which is not them, the physical, actual,
genealogical, it's in a sense, it's you, the family,
the community, the body here of believers in some way.
I wonder, and I'm just throwing it out there, I don't know,
but it makes me wonder if that ties into Paul's idea
of a family, the family of God
in some weird spiritual sense, you know what I mean?
I don't know.
Yeah, no, I think so.
I think those are overlapping ideas that they share
or whatever, right?
Did Jesus also speak that way on his own?
You know, does that come from a Jewish framework?
Where does that come from?
Cause they are both talking about it to a certain degree.
Yeah, that the family of God
or the people who are doing the work of God
that I define, you know, that I'm doing over here,
this God Jesus, right?
He's leading a grassroots movement
or trying to challenge or denounce the exploitation
of the people by their own leaders, right?
He's doing that.
And there are others who are getting on board with that.
And he's calling that doing the work of God.
So that's addressing the injustices.
So you're bringing about, you're bringing about the,
you know, the kingdom of God by doing this,
by addressing, yeah, I think that's interesting.
And yeah, that's what people are related to each other
in that community differently than our initial families.
Right, right.
That's the takeaway.
I don't know if there's any overlap,
actual connection in that sense,
but I do like what you're saying.
The real family is not the actual mom and the brother.
It's something more so.
Yeah, it's interesting.
Victor Engelman, Zeus split divine beings
into men and women.
Are Agnus, this hermaphroditus, et cetera,
based on deified actual hermaphrodites
closer to the divine form?
Could Jesus' opinion on Unix be connected?
So I think what we're talking about is, yeah, the Zeus,
it also comes up, I love that, in the symposium, right?
Where the men are talking about what is love, what is love?
And one of them talks about this idea of people
started out with two heads and four arms and four legs
and back to back and the gods separated them.
And so we spend our lives finding our other half, right?
And so some are man-man, some are woman-woman,
some are man-woman, you know?
Right.
So is Jesus' opinion on Unix connected to this idea?
My first, my response to this is gonna be,
just basically no, because I don't think He's,
I don't think Unix are non-binary in that kind of a way.
Right, because a Unix is a person, right,
who, depending at what point in life,
they've lost the gonads.
Mm-hmm.
They take on what we call, right?
We define things as effeminate or whatever,
but it's, you know, tends to be this part of humanity.
And so they have parts from both
and it's not the same thing.
That's a very interesting question though,
because I wouldn't have gone there.
But I don't think of it that way, I guess, is my point.
And I don't know that that's,
I'm not sure that that's where to go
in terms of maybe the source
or inspiration for Jesus on that.
Thank you, Victor, appreciate the super chat.
Igor, I'm not gonna butcher your last name,
thank you for the super chat.
Secret spiritual gospel, Mark,
recently got much more likely considered to be authentic.
Would you be surprised and what is your opinion?
Igor has been emailing me about his recent writings.
So I, secret spiritual gospel of Mark recently got more,
you know, I don't have an opinion on this, to be honest.
I haven't looked into it.
That isn't, it's not on my list of my to-do list
of where I'm gonna spend my time.
I am a materialist biblical scholar.
I care about what people are doing with what's in the Bible
and I care about helping people get beyond
harmful engagements with the Bible,
harming themselves and others with the Bible.
That's where my time and my interest is.
So I don't have a thought on that.
Would I be surprised if there's a new gospel
that we discover?
I would be, I would be surprised.
I would question its authenticity initially,
like that would just be my first thought,
you know, like really, really now.
Okay, interesting, and I'm open.
I'm open, that would be my response.
Like if I had time to look into it, I would, but.
I get it.
How's that? Thank you.
I do know, and it's been a minute since I've read
any of that gospel.
And I think we're talking about Morton Smith's,
going into Morton Smith's work a little bit here,
but I know that it seems a very controversial kind of material,
again, back on Jesus, that would maybe fit
that book you recommended about the beloved disciple
and Jesus.
So it'd be cool.
It might open up different ideas about Jesus
and what the heck is going on with these single men
running around without family and kids being discussed.
Both Paul and Jesus might be red flags to like consider,
you know, my poor, poor, hardcore staunch conservatives
may not like that.
You know what I mean?
So, you know, anyway.
It's true.
And why, you know, and also the side of like,
why is it that so many people think that being married
is essential to being a Christian
when the two guys that got us started were not?
As far as we're aware, right?
Like, we don't know who's in this room.
Right, as far as we're aware, yes.
Right.
It's a fascinating leap.
Yeah, it's all about that nuclear family, hallelujah.
Thank you.
Wonderful.
Thank you for the super chat.
Gay Jesus in the house.
That's fun.
Good to see you.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate the love.
Paul's law.
Forgive me if I butcher that.
That's how I would pronounce it.
If the woman brought to Jesus Christ to be condemned,
I'm just trying to read this, I think the way,
she wouldn't be an adulterer if she is an unmarried whore.
I think she has pulled off the street
to challenge on a point of law.
He risked making them formally accuse her,
and they could not.
And then they write Christian marriage equals God as dad,
church equals bad stepdad.
So I'm gonna bring this one back up
because this one actually, anyway, go ahead.
Yeah, so this is an interesting observation
debate to point out.
So right, in John eight, is this woman,
is she married and are the two that are
caught in adultery, whether it's at eight in the morning,
as it kind of sounds to me, or whether it's in the past,
like maybe two weeks ago, we caught her
and this other guy in the act of adultery,
should we stone her or not?
The question is the fact that this is raised,
the question is raised, we caught her
in the act of adultery.
Okay, aside from the fact that guy should also be there,
so that's whatever.
What that means is that she is married.
She is in a relationship because he is having sex with her
and it's being called adultery.
She already belongs to someone else.
So there's actually a debate about this as well,
like by the first century, do we have it,
so in the, sorry, let me back up.
In the Hebrew Bible, adultery is when a man,
regardless of his marital status,
when a man has sex with someone else's woman,
someone else's property, that's adultery.
And that is, the issue is her uterus, right?
That is the issue, the inheritance, who's the papa?
Like, well, make sure I'm giving my inheritance to my kid.
All kinds of fun things there.
So, but then as I talk about in the book,
it's all centralized around the woman's vagina
as access to the uterus, right?
So, adultery in the Hebrew Bible
is about protecting inheritance issues,
but it all comes out in this very negative way
towards women, right?
The double standard piece.
Okay, so by the time we get to Jesus,
is it possible that adultery can be
if the man is the one who's married and she is,
and whether or not she, can it go either way?
I'm not, sorry, I'm not talking very clearly right now.
So the question is, has it evolved to be kind of equal?
And I don't know that it has.
I don't know that, but, you know.
I mean, it sounds like, based on your work
and others that know it hasn't.
I mean, it's still the, even if there may be upgrades,
2.0, 3.0, in some way, the model is the man
is the key major player, the one in control,
and has the advantage in many ways over the woman,
still, she's property still at this time.
Right, and as I'm, and so I'm trying to address,
again, I'm trying to come back to the question,
but so if she was an unmarried sex worker,
I'd rather call it that,
and I understand it's probably for length reasons.
I appreciate it though, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But if she's unmarried and a sex worker,
then it isn't an issue of adultery at all.
So, you think that they're bringing her in to do that.
Which, what's interesting is, you know, there's, again,
okay, well, this is a story that shows up
in three different places in ancient manuscripts.
So it was an important story.
It isn't, it's in Luke into those cases.
So the story says, teacher, this woman was caught
in the very act of committing adultery.
Now, in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women.
Now, what do you say?
So, yes, they are trying to make a point about the law,
but I'm not sure that it's,
I'm not sure that we can assume
that it wasn't actually a case of adultery
in their view of things.
Yeah, how do we read, how do we know that?
Exactly the details.
Plus, I think it's a literary thing.
I'm not gonna say there weren't examples of this potentially.
It's just, I think this carries more of a,
there's more theological meaning behind this
and about Jesus showing mercy where Moses doesn't.
And there's other things we could probably read into that
and see what's going on from that.
But I find it interesting, again, where are the men on trial?
Is there any examples anywhere in any of this literature
of the man who did these deeds
and then they're all gathering around?
No, what the heck?
So, these are observations you and other scholars like you
make me consider, think about,
and of course, realize why I don't go to my Bible
for how I want to function in modern society,
how I wanna treat my wife, how I wanna view the world.
That is, like, no,
and I'm not trying to judge them for them.
I get it, you see what I'm saying?
Totally, and I try to do that as well, like make it clear.
I'm like, I'm just talking about what they are doing, right?
Right.
And that is what was going on, but there's also a better way.
There's perhaps a different way.
And so we don't have to continue to perpetuate.
I feel like maybe we haven't done justice to Paul's law
and I'm sorry about that, Paul,
but he risked making them formally accuse her
and they could not.
That's not entirely how I see that,
but I hear what you're saying, I see what you're saying.
Oh, they added the accusers could not be liars.
Well, they could, they absolutely could.
I think that's an important way to actually reread it is,
I mean, how do you catch people
in the act of adultery at eight in the morning?
Unless you're plotting something.
Or I had someone point out to me,
actually a student, online students point out to me
that like, well, I actually could have been,
they knew that she'd been accused of it
two weeks earlier or whatever.
The whole thing could be a set up, right?
I mean, and we know that that actually does happen
and has happened and continues to happen in countries
where women, where this is still a thing, right?
The stoning of sorority is one of my,
is a movie I recommend to people on that.
Like a man can accuse his woman of stepping out on him
just to get rid of her.
Right, that's exactly what they brought up before
is they could have been lying about her.
So how sad of a situation when society works in such a way,
singling out the woman on these particular things
where he could find any reason he doesn't like her anymore
or someone doesn't like her.
There are examples we can even use today potentially
where people are accusing others
that didn't do anything or something
and then they get screwed over.
Exactly, yeah.
Their reputation is ruined,
their careers, whatever, right?
Right, yep.
Over something that you would challenge on the outset
as it being some punishable thing.
It might be, it might have consequences
with the relationship they have
if they're being dishonest and not,
there's not an understanding there or whatever.
Right, right, right.
But nothing that is deserving of punishment,
nothing that is criminal, nothing that is,
and that's where you and I are gonna go.
The whole damn story is just,
if I was omniscient or at least could see into the future
what we look back now as we've learned a lot
and we've come this far,
we'd go, wouldn't Jesus have noticed that
and been like, Moses was wrong.
And I'm telling you today,
and had a way to look at this.
But of course, Christians who doubled down on this
would say, no, no, no, no, you guys are wrong.
And that old saying, not all Christians,
let's not show them here.
Yeah, you just wanna sin or actually,
you know, there are some who will go so far
as to try and uphold slavery,
uphold these really archaic ideas
that we should be growing out of as humans
because the Bible, because the book says, yeah.
It's funny, I also don't usually say
that Moses wrote the law,
but I understand that you're using it as a shorthand,
I just wanted to comment on that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, but notice, again, Jesus is wrong again.
Moses didn't write the, oh man, come on,
how did Jesus not know this?
But Josephus also claims that Moses wrote this.
Of course, of course he did.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And Adam and Eve were walking around and they, you know,
yeah, they thought this was the case.
Yeah, yeah, this reminds me of the story in John four,
right, the woman who meets him at the well
and she has had five spouses.
And the one she's living with now is not her own.
And I remember growing up,
I remember all throughout to my late twenties,
like judging her for her sexual activity.
Like she's had sex with 64 men.
And the one she's living with now is she's not married to.
And like, I was taught to see it that way.
I don't think the story necessarily upholds a judgment
on her, and by the way, how is it possible
for a woman in the first century
to have been in five marriages?
Someone either died or divorced her.
She didn't have any choice in that matter.
But interesting how we want to judge her
for having had sex with six people, like what?
Right.
What is wrong with us?
Yeah.
She was a victim of that system
and of the patriarchal framework
and of the society that she's living in.
Yeah, and he in a sense is frowning upon it in the context.
You know, you could tell he's not like in favor,
of course, of that.
He has to highlight that.
It was like a gotcha.
And then, you know, it's like.
The one you're with now is not your...
Right, right.
Wow, there's so many interesting things to explore
and from your angle, you're writing great books.
Again, I shamelessly need to plug that
so people could see.
Your writing is fun.
It's super fun and easy.
It's, I don't know, it just keeps going.
You want to keep reading.
It's not like you're laboring over the top
to try and bring some heavy, scholarly analysis
that's going to make your brain hurt.
It's just very easy to read and fun to do.
Thank you.
Yeah, I appreciate it.
I really do.
I love this book.
I hope more people will get it.
In fact, I'm curious to know,
has anyone other than the Super Chatter
went and purchased a copy of this book?
I'd like to see a show of hands
of anybody in the chat who has.
Makes me feel good to know that the scholars I bring on
are getting their works read.
And listen, you don't have to agree with.
Exactly.
You know, you can read to understand
where she's coming from.
And then you can make videos debunking it
if you want to spend.
What?
Yeah.
I'll even, I might even respond to it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I think the price is an issue for a lot of people,
which was really discouraging to me at first.
But I think we're at the point where it might be,
they might be putting it into paperback soon
because we've sold enough copies.
Just a heads up.
I'm not sure how soon though.
I asked the editor because we had this conversation
and he's like, once we run out of the first print run,
then we'll look into paperback.
So we're at that point.
So hopefully.
Wow.
I hope so.
Yeah.
Let's hope this stream gets her more sales
because this invites more academic discussions,
more of your questions, more of these back and forth dialogues
and better assessing, paying attention,
thinking about what we're reading, all of that.
You do a great job of that.
And I always enjoy the excitement, enthusiasm
that you and I bring.
And I hope anyone watching understands
that we're just excited.
We like to talk about these things.
And forgive us if we seem scattered rain
because both you and I do this when we get on.
We're like, we bounce around and do this.
That comment earlier was like, well, I mean,
that comment's right.
I do.
I get excited and I keep going instead of making a complete sentence
and my thoughts are just doing all the things.
And I'm like, that's me.
If I'm actually lecturing or whatever,
I'm going to make a complete sentence.
I get it.
This is different.
This is more fun.
We were so comfortable.
That's a good thing.
You're being yourself.
Okay.
And then number three, it says, you know,
you're just being you and having fun.
And I think that we'd be the same way in person.
If we were recording in person, as you know,
I travel to interview scholars here and there,
the same vibes, same energy bouncing around.
We're just having fun because there's so much to discuss.
There is.
There is no loss of things to discuss.
Yeah.
And I think we touched on this earlier,
but I will say, you know, what the reason I chose to do this,
Shannon.
Oh, that's so fun.
Thanks for telling me.
Thanks for letting me know.
Okay.
Or letting us know.
Thank you.
Oh, that's fun.
Yay.
I appreciate that.
No, I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I got into doing this particular topic because of what was happening around me politically.
Right.
And I wanted to just throw that out there because sure,
we can talk about like, I can have this conversation with students in a classroom or I can do whatever,
but like, this is a thing like there are countries on the planet where it is illegal
to be LGBTQ, like your identity is illegal.
And the reason it is illegal is because people misunderstand human sexuality and the Bible,
the Christian Bible has significantly contributed to that misunderstanding of human sexuality.
That's what's going on.
Right.
And so our misunderstandings come from the texts themselves being misinformed and we're
taking it as authoritative and as coming straight from God.
And so of course it's right, right, but it isn't.
And so that's, that's why I went into this particular project in this, for the, you know,
I worked on it for 10 years, trying to figure out how to have that conversation with people.
How do I help someone understand that better, trying to figure, excuse me, try to figure
out a way to do that well.
And it finally, finally read the book.
So
Well, for people like me, I don't think I would have been able to swallow this pill as a Christian
who's investigating it.
But this would have been a pill eventually as I've come to realize now that I could consider.
But initially it was other avenues, other things, failed apocalyptic stuff.
It was this, it was comparative mythology.
So expanding my mind that maybe Jesus isn't the only miracle worker or a demon, you know,
this or that.
That is mind blowing.
Yeah.
Like once you start realizing you got competitive models and that those are making claims and
they in their mind are believed by their, their own cult following.
Why do I think this one and not that?
And those are the things, because for me, I came from that when, since you were talking
about politically, like I came out of the bubble that was very staunch, politically
right wing all the way and thought many of these categories were weird and strange and
not normal and all of that because normal is God and man or God marrying man and woman
from the very beginning Adam and Eve, the whole nine.
And then when you start to realize like, hold on, the entire biblical thing that I had my
whole world view wrapped up in, like I didn't even know what was in my own Bible sometimes,
things like that, or that there were problems with this stuff.
And once that started unravel, that's why I don't understand personally, just speaking
out loud people who D convert or claim to then recognize this stuff who still holds
very crazy ideas.
I'm like, where, how did you not see that as you're leaving out the door, they have
a little metaphorical baggage thing, leave the baggage over here kind of, I don't get
it for me.
I don't get it.
That doesn't mean you don't have to, you don't have to throw everything out, it's just
there's so many ideas that I'm like, why is that still not, you know, anyway, I don't
want to get into the details because I try to avoid politics as much as I can.
But it does take time, doesn't it, to, to deconstruct or unpack what you've believed
and to let things go and to reconsider.
So all those pieces take time.
And that might be part of it is they don't really have the bandwidth to reconsider some
of these things.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I love you.
Thank you so much.
Derek.
Look, keep me updated.
Let me know.
I always, it always motivates me and inspires me when I see that people are getting the
scholars works.
It drives me, makes me get motivated and it also makes me feel good, almost like, you
know, when I get that call and they go, thank you.
We had a lot more cells, MythVision's audience is fantastic.
Just really tells me a lot about what we're doing and the kind of impact and change we're
making in terms of helping academics such as yourself to keep going, you know.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you for that.
Thank you for your support and for your friendship, you know, it's been over just four years we've
been doing this.
That's, we forgot to bring that up till now.
June 2, 2020 was our first, our first release.
Exactly.
Almost.
Yeah, almost four.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Almost four.
Wow.
Yeah.
It's been a minute.
It has.
Thank you.
Well, we're going to have in-person stuff too.
I've got ideas, but we'll, we'll tackle that.
Sounds good.
Yeah.
I'll be in Florida sometime in July, I think.
Okay.
So I'll be closer to you.
Your East Coast.
I am.
Virginia.
Yeah.
So you're not too far from me.
I'll be down and, yeah.
We'll figure something out.
Okay.
Okay.
So what's from you, for our audience, someone out there might be struggling, I always like
to give a chance for like an encouraging word from you or anything that you'd like to
say.
Yeah.
It's hard to be encouraging on this one.
You know, I think what I do hear a lot, I do hear people say, gosh, I really did, this
passage was kind of, I was beaten up by this passage or I was, you know, and I think part
of what I'm trying to do is say, give people space to be able to call that out and say,
this idea is in the Bible and, and it has been used against you to harm you.
And I want better than that for you.
So you know, I think, I guess that's what I'm trying to do in this one.
What does the Bible actually say about marriage?
There's not a lot that is helpful for us today.
And I think it's important to note that.
And I think I'm not down on marriage, I'm, I have let, you know, performed three and
I'm about to perform another one for my cousin, you know, and, right, like I support people
in marriages and I want the best for them, right?
We should have said that at the beginning of the video for those who just heard of me
until just now.
It's a great point though.
I'm glad you did it.
Not down on marriage.
Yeah.
But you're against it.
You're, but you're obviously trying to open up, broaden our minds a little and then question
when someone weaponizes the Bible in any way.
That has very ancient ideas about bodies and sex and this relationship we call marriage.
Yeah.
Right.
So you can value, cherish that.
If anyone was watching this, this is why I wish we did say it earlier.
I know me too.
For those who are in a marriage, like me, who cherish their partner, who love them more
than themselves that would do anything to protect them, like you're totally for that.
You're suggesting that, first of all, the way that marriage has been used is not always
been at the advantage of the female and there's so many things to think that through.
So you're not against that.
If anything, you'd be for relationships and such, I don't, you know, I don't really,
I'm married, but I'm not like, for those who aren't into the institution of marriage
or going out of the way to marry, I don't blame them at all.
Trust me.
I get it.
You know, everyone's different.
Everyone has a different.
Exactly.
So no knocking you.
Anyway, I don't know why we didn't talk about that earlier, but you're the best.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Do we do, do we do our, our outro?
Is that what you're wanting?
Well, it's so fun.
Which one do you want?
I've got.
Remember the outro is as much.
I just think they're fun.
The, the scroll, the, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's been a while.
Apocalyptic scroll one.
I do like the scroll, but I don't like apocalypse.
So you do it.
It was.
Yeah.
It was a bit apocalyptic, but it was like we are the, we're bringing the four horsemen
and stuff.
I know.
Is that an outro and not just intro?
I think I use it for both.
Okay.
But yeah.
But it's, I think I usually do it for an outro.
Let me see.
I still have it in here.
It's been a minute since I've even applied these outros.
I didn't know you weren't using them.
Okay.
Here it is.
I think it is.
Yeah.
Let's do it.
Yeah.
Let's do it.
All right.
Well, thank you everybody.
Like the video.
Share it.
Get her book.
Let me know in the comment section if you got her book.
It makes me smile and I mean that.
I'm not even kidding you.
It makes me feel good to know that people care about the scholar works.
So thank you.
Thank you.
Have a good one.
Son.
Do you want to?
Oh.
Wrong one.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
