We are MythVision, home of MythVision podcast and MythVision radio group.
My co-host is Derek Lambert.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams.
We're on Facebook, so like us, please.
We're on YouTube, subscribe.
Patreon and PayPal are bloop on your screen, so do the right thing.
Now while back, we brought you the championship bout between Dr. Robert Price and Dr. Bart
Ehrman, and then came the matchup between Dr. Richard Carrier and Dr. Ehrman, and with
all that prize fighting going on, Iron Mike Tyson became a real fan of the show, you know.
In fact, I think we've got Iron Mike right here.
Let's hear what he has to say.
Iron Mike, are you with us?
I'm excited, Derek and Luther.
These stories about mythicism are really good.
They deal with all the mysteries we have misunderstood.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Thank you, Iron Mike.
Our very special guest today is David Fitzgerald.
He is a writer and historical researcher who has been actively investigating the historical
Jesus question for over 15 years.
He has a degree in history and was an associate member of the Committee for the Scientific
Examination of Religion.
David lectures around the world at universities and national secular events.
He is the author of the award-winning 2010 book, Nailed, 10 Christian Myths That Showed
Jesus Never Existed at All, which pointed out the top 10 fatal flaws of Christianity's
origin story.
His most recent book is Jesus' Mything in Action.
And it presents a most compelling new group of findings in the Jesus myth theory and critically
examines its controversial reception by biblical scholars, the extent and reliability of our
sources for Jesus, and reveals some surprising history behind Jesus's evolution.
David has also authored the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion series.
He has also been called one of the busiest atheist activists in the Bay Area.
In addition to serving on the board of San Francisco Atheists Center for Inquiry and
the Garrison Martino Project, he was director and co-founder of both the world's first
atheist film festival and Evolution Palooza, San Francisco's annual Darwin Day celebration.
You get that?
Evolution Palooza.
Where did these guys come up with this stuff?
You're going to ask him about that in just a minute, okay?
What David has been honored to work with the Student Secular Alliance, he lives in San
Francisco with writer-producer and film actress, and also his wife, which is pretty much I guess
a good thing if you're going to live with somebody.
And her name is Dana.
And David, welcome to MythVision Podcast.
Hello, hello.
Man, wonderful to have you aboard.
Good to have you, brother.
I'm delighted to be here, guys.
Oh, man, we're so excited.
You know, you guys, the atheist mythicists, have the best puns in the business.
You know, you look for some of these important characters in history, and you think you've
got all the information, but something is mything.
And so we've got to send out a mything persons report.
And of course, there's your book series, Mything in Action.
And we've learned you've got women in your organization who are mything their monthly.
That could be dangerous, or maybe it's just a myth understanding.
I don't know.
And on and on.
Rim shot there, rim shot.
That's right.
But David, man, what I love about having you on the show is you are all about getting traction,
the social dimension of the issues that you study and write about.
And so what are the implications for social policy?
Kind of get right into it, because that's going to give us a window into why this question
of mythicism versus historicism is important.
What are some of the social implications of mythicism versus historicism run amuck?
And then let us know, did you come to mythicism through activism, or did you come to activism
through mythicism?
Let me answer the second person question.
Those are two great questions.
The second question was, how did I get into mythicism?
And honestly, 20 years ago, it never even crossed my mind that there was no Jesus.
I was a perfectly happy atheist.
I didn't have any beef against Jesus.
And ironically, it was only by looking into the actual historical Jesus that I started
having problems.
The second question was, I got curious about how much of our gospel Jesus is the real Jesus
and how much is just legendary, can we say bullshit on this show?
Legendary bullshit that got created later, legendary add-ons.
And so that's where my trouble began, is once you try to parse those two things out of where's
the real Jesus, where's he starting to stop, all of a sudden all these red flags start
popping up.
And I thought about this in the book Nailed, how I went from thinking, oh, of course there's
a Jesus.
Who doesn't think there's a Jesus?
To realizing, oh, that's funny.
Those aren't written by eyewitnesses.
Oh, that's funny.
That didn't come around until decades later.
Well, that's really strange.
And in the book, the second to the last chapter is called Can Jesus Be Saved?
And I wrote it all the ways that Christianity would be different, the New Testament would
be different, and just first century history would be different if there was just a guy
named Jesus.
And in the book, I pointed to this one little paradox that says, well, this thorny dilemma
we have that either he said all these amazing things, if not did actual miracles at least
taught amazing things, and yet nobody outside his little cult notices for the better part
of a century, or he didn't do these amazing miracles, he didn't teach these amazing things,
and yet as soon as he's dead, we have all these feuding little house cults, not just
in the Galilee, not just in Jerusalem, but all over the Roman Empire from end to end,
who can't agree about the first thing in his life, or who his friends were, or what he
taught.
And that little paradox alone was enough to say, okay, something's very wrong here for
me.
And a long story short, there's nothing implausible about there being a first century Messiah
named Jesus.
There's nothing illogical about that, there's nothing unbelievable about that.
But that's not where our evidence points to, and when you see how our biographical information
for Jesus, where it comes from, it basically boils down to, well, these four books here,
and these four books boil down to this one book, and the book is the Gospel of Mark.
Before Mark writes his Gospel, Christianity looks very different, Jesus looks very different,
and after it, Jesus looks very different.
And as this watershed moment, this evolutionary leap, when he goes from being a celestial
Jesus that's worshiped by this cult, to somebody who was supposed to have been alive, and kicking
a couple generations back.
Wow, that makes a lot of sense, yeah.
And that came from you, I mean, 20 years ago, like you said, you believed this thing.
And so now, all your research is leading you towards this, kind of, it sounds to me similar
to what Carrier is suggesting, you know, the angelic Christ-type concept, or a heavenly,
and the heavenly crucifixion, there's something there, and I think me and Luther would agree
there's something.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
Yeah.
Oh no, no, you're totally right.
And we still have evidence of early Christians calling Jesus an angel, calling, you know,
having no reference of Jesus being on earth at all, and our oldest existing New Testament
when you actually go through the New Testament, you realize Paul, and for some reason, Paul
is the only early Christian writer who got preserved, which is weird in itself.
But he doesn't have any biographical information to share.
And I go down through Jesus' myth and action, all the Christians who try to tell us, oh,
no, Paul said this, he knew this, it's like, no, no, no, you just dig a little deeper,
and you see that they're completely winging it.
That is, I gotta be honest, I haven't read the book yet, and I am so needing to read
it myself, because I'm a big fan of these theories and ideas, and this is such a powerful
thing for me, bringing you from the Orthodox.
So you have a lot of scholars who you're working with for the historical Jesus.
Absolutely, none of these are my ideas, and it's not just even mythos I talk to, but
it's people across the board, and the work that all these scholars have done keeps pointing
away from that.
You mentioned Bart Ehrman earlier, I love Bart Ehrman, and even though he's like the
arch-historicist who says, oh yeah, that wasn't Jesus, stupid, he's one of the best
mythosist writers out there, because the research he's done on forgery and Christianity, on
how the Orthodox factions corrupted Christianity, and we're changing their scriptures to defeat
other factions, it's like, you're sawing off the limb that you're sitting on.
Yeah, wow.
And so, yeah, it's amazing, and every book he's written since that book, Jesus did not
exist, or sorry, did Jesus exist, every book he's written since has retreated just a little
bit more from what he said in the last book about how, well, yeah, that wasn't his, he's
realizing that the things he's been relying on aren't as strong as he thought it was,
so I'm dying to see what he's writing in five or ten years.
I can't, what if he comes to your conclusion?
So that'd be crazy.
It would be crazy, but I've seen crazier things.
You did a study of institutions with religious studies programs asking how many are contractually
obliged to publicly accept a historical Jesus or reject differences.
Tell us the scope of your study and what you found, break it down for us.
What year did you elect your data?
I'd love to be in on the next study.
I'm a social scientist, ostracism, loss of salary, loss of reputation, personal crisis
of faith, etc.
Absolutely.
Could you go a little bit on that?
Yeah, because the first question- Whoa, we lost it.
We lost David.
I think I lost it again.
David, there you go.
We lost you right at the beginning.
I'm here.
I'm here.
I'm here.
All right.
All right.
Thanks.
That's a fresh piece of luck.
I'll start again.
All right.
Okay, gotcha.
What was I talking about?
This is the scope of your study pertaining to- Right, this is the scope of the study.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I wrote this series, Jesus, Myth, and Actions, for all the atheists who try to tell me, oh,
no, yeah, we have good evidence for Jesus.
No, we don't.
And one of the first things that always gets thrown on my face is, well, all historians
agree there was a Jesus.
And first of all, no, that's not true.
That's never been true.
But more importantly, when you look at who is saying this, it's every historian has to
punt to the biblical historians, the Jesus historians, all these people who actually
work for Jesus, let alone depending on him for their salvation.
And so it occurred to me that we really need to quantify that information, because in Nailed,
I made the point that, hey, look, the majority of Jesus scholars have always been Christians
and always will be.
And I got flack for that, which blew my mind because it's like, that's obvious, right?
And so, yeah, I went, got a team, we realized it's very hard to ask every single scholar
in the country what they believe about Jesus.
But I had a breakthrough and realized it is super easy to go to every single institution
and say, OK, do you require people to toe this theological line?
And that was what made the difference.
And yeah, the majority of biblical scholars out there not only are contractually obligated
to not just believe in Jesus, but toe this theological line that doesn't even, you know,
Moses, Adam and Eve sometimes.
And they have to sign off on that, that they believe that and they always believe that
and they always will believe it.
It's like, yeah, that's scholarly crazy.
That's right out the window for any kind of bias.
That's almost like fundamentalist Christians who believe in an old earth.
If you believe in old earth, you're fired or something like crazy.
Yeah.
And sure, there are some good secular scholars out there like Bart Ehrman, but he's in the
minority.
Here's the thing, he's always going to be in the minority because the situation's only
getting worse.
More and more, the colleges that even offer some kind of New Testament studies or Jesus
studies are the religious ones.
So it's getting even harder and harder for new scholars to propose things that are blasphemous.
But it's funny, 30 years ago, if you said there was no Moses or no Abraham, that was
totally verboten.
Now it's the consensus.
They had a historian, Thomas Thompson.
He almost lost his career before it began for saying that Moses wasn't real.
And now there's almost no scholars out there who deny that, who think that Moses was real.
Among objective scholars, I should say, religious ones are right, fallen, rank, and file.
When did you collect that data when you went around to the colleges?
I want to say that was 2015.
It was about a year before the book came out.
Man, look, I'm going to gear up for another study in 2020.
I'm like Derek, because I want to be in on the next study.
I think it's great what you're doing.
And in fact, I'd like to see it expand a little bit to see the influence of these institutions,
learn something about their screening policies, learn something about maybe how they attract
their students, and maybe even ask little different questions and expand it, because
I think it's fascinating.
That's where this really needs to go.
David, you have the social hookup, man.
Thank you, sir.
That's the angle.
That's what we love about it.
It's all about traction.
And it's fascinating when you just scratch the surface a little, because the most amazing
thing about doing that study was not that that was the majority.
It was the number of schools that lied about it and said, oh, no, no, we don't have anything
like that.
And it's like, see, that's why I would love to do a follow-up study is because a third
of them said, oh, no, no, we have no such thing.
And it's right there on their website.
It's like, or they refuse to answer.
Yeah, that was what blew my mind as these people are violating one of the 10 commandments
to do this.
Yeah, right, right.
Exactly.
And I do some case studies in the book of actual Bible-believing devout Christian scholars
who get in hot water for not towing that theological line, even though they believe in Jesus, even
though they're Christians, they still find themselves getting in trouble from the higher
ups.
And do you remember when, yeah, a couple of years ago, Ben Stein did a movie called Exposed,
where he talked about how big science is stepping on anyone who dares question evolution?
Well, that's purely bullshit.
That doesn't true.
And yet the theologians, there is a big theology, and it does squash people who are descent,
and they don't make any bones about it either.
So it's doubly ironic.
Well, yeah, you're coming from a state of presupposition.
They definitely do that.
And I agree with you because it wasn't too long ago that I was involved in a lot of this
theological stuff as well.
And seeing that is, I mean, I came from a strong Presbyterian background.
So, you know, I'm familiar with seeing they don't care.
They will make no bones about that.
Yep.
Yep.
Yeah.
Southern Baptist.
Wow.
Wow.
And you know, David, the illusion of uniformity is out there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yes.
Everybody thinks that, oh, these things are all the same everywhere, and they're all monolithic.
And your book brings that out beautifully.
I mean, for example, the Canon, all right, let's just look at the books.
All right.
You've got the Roman Catholic Canon, the Protestant Canon, orthodox, all the different orthodoxy.
Exactly.
You've got these Gnostic Gospels that are reflected in the Nag Hammadi texts.
You've got the Infancy Gospels, all with their different emphases, right?
That's not even counting all the different interpretations of these.
Just in, you just pick one denomination alone.
Just take Protestants, and you've got, you know, hundreds, dozens, hundreds of different
denominations, different translations of the Bible.
Yeah.
Wow.
Now, you talk about also sets of complete manuscripts.
I think you mentioned two particular works.
Are they codices?
Tell us something about that.
When you look at our New Testament, our Bibles today, the earliest Bible that we have that's
a complete New Testament, there's two of them, and they all go back to the fourth century,
which is already way past the time when Jesus was supposed to been walking around.
It's the Codex Sinaiticus and the Codex Vaticanus, and the amazing thing about these two books,
there are first complete New Testaments, but they don't agree with each other.
They have books that aren't with one another, and sometimes the books themselves are different
from each other.
What's really crazy is both of those books are different from our Bibles.
We have books they don't have.
They have books we don't have, you know.
Wow.
Our earliest individual New Testament books, that only comes about towards the end of the
second century and the beginning of the third century.
You hear Christians bagging about, oh yeah, these were written by eyewitnesses, and they
came about a few years, and it's super wonderful.
No, that is bullshit.
These are not coming to 150 to 200 years after the fact, and we have a complete blackout
period of what went before that.
We don't know.
We can't say, oh, this is 99.999% of the original, which you hear them say constantly, because
we don't know what those originals look like.
You can't base your argument on what the originals are, because we have no idea what was done
in those 150 and 200 years.
What we do know is our existing texts, and Bart Ehrman shows this very well in his books
on Forgery in the New Testament and the Orthodox Corruption of Scripture, is that for every
single existing text we have, we can see signs that they've doctored it, that they've jiggered
with it, and this will blow your mind.
There is no single New Testament manuscript that matches any other New Testament manuscript,
and I'm not just talking about grammar errors and spelling errors, because there's plenty
of those.
That's not special.
We can understand that.
It's when they're deliberately changed to means the opposite of what they originally
meant, or at least the older went, and we don't know which is the original.
In fact, I think it was Maybin Ehrman himself who made the point that even if we magically
had Apostle Paul writing his book, putting it in a black box, and we just found it today,
we wouldn't know it was the original.
We would say, oh, here's a weird variant on this thing.
We would think that monostics wrote it or something like that.
We would have no way of knowing which is the oldest and which is the newest, and that's
true, even with Bible-believing scholars who love Jesus with all of our heart.
They still disagree on which is the actual reading of certain manuscripts.
David, this is interesting, because we've always heard it's just ...
I've lost you.
Can you hear me?
I've lost you.
Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
There we go.
We've always heard it's just, if you come from a Christian background, oh, it's just
variations of spellings or mistakes, a little ...
Right.
That's interesting.
I hear that.
Dilling with the Gospels, the names attached to the Gospels, no traditions rather than
authorship.
Can you emphasize on that?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
You're absolutely right.
Every single book we have in the New Testament was originally anonymous, or I should say
the Gospels are anonymous.
Every single book in the New Testament that has a name attached to it, not according to
you, but by, is a forgery.
This is an interesting thing.
I didn't know this until I started researching, but when you have a book that says the Gospel
according to Matthew, that phrase according to is already telling you, oh, no, Matthew
didn't write this.
This is handed down, and we call that the Matthew.
None of those names that we have, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, none of those got attached
to the end of the second century.
Before that, there were any number of Gospels, Acts, Epistles, all these early Christian writings
floating around with no attribution.
Whoa.
Man, okay, this is incredible.
There's a Markan tradition, a Lucan tradition, a Matthewan tradition, and a Joannean tradition.
It's worse than that because the three, the Lucan, the Matthewan, and the Markan, they're
called the Synoptic Gospels because they are stealing from Mark.
They are our earliest Gospel, the most no-frills Jesus, the shortest, the most fallible, the
most human Jesus.
They took that story, they took that story, and worked off it to make the Gospel of Matthew
and the Gospel of Luke, and then John came around later, he didn't even try to match
up with them.
He has their Jesus doing things, his Jesus doing things that the other ones don't even
bother.
Wow.
Wow.
And with lots of input from pagan sources, from mystery schools, talk a little bit about
the Eucharist, the Lord's Supper.
Where did that come from?
Where have we seen Carl and Zavat?
Great question.
Yeah, Paul never calls it the Last Supper.
He calls it the Lord's Supper, and the interesting thing about that is Christianity is not the
first religion to have a Lord's Supper.
All these mystery faiths at the time had a lady or Lord's Supper, our lady Lord's Supper,
and he even mentions in his letters, like, now, this is our Lord's Supper.
You can't go to them.
That's the table of demons.
You can't drink from their cup, as though you have to drink from ours, yeah, though.
And I talk about the whole business about the Last Supper, the problematic with assuming
that that's a historical event in the book, yeah.
That could take a little while to unpack, but yeah, there's very good reasons to believe
that he's not talking about a real event.
Well, you've written that the historical Jesus is the one we get from the Gospels, and he
doesn't seem to be an integral, unitary, monolithic character.
For example, put the Jesus of Mark, bargain basement, no frills, no accessories, base
model Jesus, like you were just discussing, and the Jesus of John, on the spectrum, what
are we dealing with?
Can you compare them?
Can you show us an example?
Yeah, absolutely.
In the Gospel, well, first of all, there's just the chronology.
If you look at what they were doing the last month of their life, in the first three Gospels,
completely different.
In John, his Jesus gets in trouble for, okay, let me back up a little bit.
So the first three, Jesus gets in trouble for cleansing the temple of the money changers.
Big, huge one-man Kung Fu army of death comes in, kicks out all the money changers, implausible
as that is, and that's why everyone wants to kill him all of a sudden.
In John, he does that the first week.
That's one of the first things he does in his career, three years earlier, is kick the
money changers out.
So when his Jesus gets in trouble, it's for raising Lazarus from the dead.
He does that, and the people freak out, and the chief priests are like, oh no, what are
we going to do?
Everyone's calling Jesus now, because he raised Lazarus from the dead.
Well, here's the crazy thing.
There is no Lazarus in Mark, in Matthew, or Luke.
He doesn't exist as a character at all, and yet when you compare what's happening in the
last month, and it's like people who say, oh, but the Gospels are so detailed, they must
be true.
Well, look at those details, because they are very detailed, and they are going in two
completely different directions, and yeah, they just don't match up at all, at all.
So if you know Dan Barker from the Freedom from Religion Foundation, he has a thing called
the Easter Challenge that I just love, and here's the challenge.
Tell me what happened on Easter Sunday.
Here's the only rule.
You have to only use the Gospels, and you can't leave anything out of the Gospels, and
that's the killer.
So because when you read all four Gospels, it becomes super obvious, super quick that
you can't include everything, or you'll have him doing two sets of everything, three sets
of everything, saying 19 different things at the same time.
Yeah, yeah.
But David, Justin, in the respect of the hyperbole, the literal hype that goes on, can you describe
the inflation from Mark leading up to John, and then maybe even beyond, because by the
time you get to the ancillary text, by the time you get to the Nakamati text, the inflation
continues, doesn't it?
Yeah, and it's a complete line of evolution.
You've got Mark, where he's just a fallible human being who just is like one of us, and
he gets promoted to lordship at his death because he's been so faithful.
And it's funny, when you go back and read Mark with that thought, that this is not somebody
who was born at creation, and one of the Trinity, this is a normal guide just like us.
When he gets baptized, God says, you are my son now, you're going to be my son.
When you read that, and you read the Garden of Gethsemane scene, or you read the temptation
of Satan and the wilderness, it's like, it makes perfect sense that he gets tempted then
because it's like, okay, here's your trial run, you know, let's see if you're up to it.
It makes no sense if Jesus is just slumming on earth for 30 years and ready to go back
to heaven.
And David Cross did a great comedy bit about this too, about hell.
I've got to get the hell out of here, it's like, let's go, come on, stop, stop.
But when you read in the Garden of Gethsemane, you realize, okay, this is a story of a guy
who knows he's going to be killed horribly, and he doesn't know if he can go through with
it.
It kind of brings tears to your eyes, you know.
That gets all gone by the time we get to John.
Right out of the gate, he is, I am God, he might as well have a t-shirt saying it because
he tells everybody that.
And I remember thinking, you know, was there like a rock shortage?
Why was he not stoned to death right out of the gate?
He doesn't show any kind of hesitation or doubt at all, and he even seems to die not
to save sins, but to just prove that he is who he is.
Yeah, yeah, don't get me started on John, it just goes on.
John hates it, which is crazy.
He hates, I'm sorry, you got cut off.
And John's Jesus hates the Jews, which is funny because he is one, you know.
Exactly, but look, John would never have gotten away with this anti-Semitic ring to it had
he been under the Jews authority and had it been perhaps written closer, do you think,
to the first century?
Do you think that was a product maybe of getting away from the events of the first century,
getting away from the Messianics who were active at that time, and once they were roundly
defeated, here comes the anti-Semitism?
Do you think that might have been a factor?
It's very possible.
I mean, there's all kinds of reasons that we know John's Gospel was written sometime in
the early second century.
Definitely, Mark was probably written sometime in the 70s, or at least the earliest parts
of John, I'm sorry, of Mark, were written in the 70s.
It couldn't have been written before the Jewish war with Rome.
But John, he's way out there along with Luke.
Luke says, yeah, there's so many people writing Gospels now.
It seems like a good idea for me to examine it and give us a real story, which is a lie
because all he does is steal from Matthew and Mark, for the most part.
Isn't it beautiful how Luke starts his out too?
He's like, this is the most accurate account.
I love it.
Yeah.
Look at all the rest of that people sitting out there.
Yeah, right, right, right.
Right here.
Yeah.
And I love when Christians say, oh, well, no, Luke is a very good historian, one of
the greatest historians.
How do you know?
Well, he says so right in the beginning of his book.
It's like, oh.
Hey, look, hey, look, what about that episode with the woman who had the issue of blood
12 years?
You remember that?
Yeah.
There's a line in Mark that says, and none of the doctors could help her, but Luke is
supposed to be a physician.
So he conveniently leaves out that line about, and no doctor could help.
We just won't.
That's funny.
But yet I have the most accurate account of any gospel you'll ever read.
I lost you there.
I lost you.
I lost you for a second, but yeah, you're absolutely right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So Luke leaves that line out, and then he says, but yet I have, as Derek said, the most
accurate account of any gospel you'll ever read.
Which he's stealing from Matthew and Mark, that cracks me up, cracks me up.
And you mentioned how the story keeps ramping up, and totally true.
We have the Gospel of Peter, which came later, and in its time, the first century, the early
second century, it was even more popular than the Gospel of Mark.
We're lucky we have the Gospel of Mark at all, because it was clearly not the most popular
gospel out there.
In Peter's Gospel, not only does Jesus come out, these 200 tall angels come up.
He comes out of the tomb, and he's 500 feet tall.
And then the cross comes out of the tomb, and starts talking to people.
So you've got a 500 foot Jesus on the talking cross.
It's like, the story just keeps ramping up and up and up and up and up.
Wow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Man.
Yeah.
You know, Luther, did you have a question, because I was going to go ahead and ask a
question.
No, no, no.
Go ahead, Derek.
Okay.
I'll go ahead and go at it then.
Yeah.
Guys, I hope you don't mind the background.
This is his book.
Get the book.
Those look really sharp.
What is that, Derek?
These are definitely your books, bro.
They are, aren't they?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look, I totally recommend it.
Before I ask this question, guys, gals, please, check out the book.
David's a great guy.
We've had a little bit of time before we actually started this, just getting to know each other.
And I've been watching your stuff for a while now, and I love the passion, the drive.
You have a charismatic character just like me, and we're passionate.
You know what I mean?
We're just, we might have ADHD, who knows, but it's okay.
Look, Paul, Paul in his life, in his own estimation, and the Luke in portrayal of him, discrepancy
is there?
Oh, thank you.
What a lovely question that is.
It's like everybody loves Paul, but when you ask what you love about Paul, they're mostly
talking about what Luke says about Paul.
It's the bullshit Paul, yeah.
And so, like, when people talk about, oh, well, who's real in the Bible, who's not, Paul is
kind of a 50-50 because, yeah, there probably really was a Paul, and here's the real Paul
that everybody hates, and here's the super Paul who that dude never existed, you know?
And so many things that we love the most about Paul, Paul never tells us this.
Luke tells us this.
And on almost every single place where they are, where there's an overlap of what they're
talking about, and where we can connect them, you know, compare them for accuracy, Luke
is wrong.
Luke is making shit up.
He's saying something completely opposite to what Paul's saying.
If we lose the historicity in all of this, we kind of lose things like apostolic succession,
don't we?
Because, I mean, these things are really based on the historical argument.
Yeah.
So, how does that all hook together?
Well, it's fascinating to see in the second century, what we call Christianity, I mean,
there was no such thing.
Back then, Christianity was just, it's the frontier, the Wild West frontier, and anything
goes for Christianity.
And like, if they had never found the Nag Hammadi Gospels, and that's from the fourth
century, this is still way after the fact, we would have no idea that Christianity in
the fourth century was so crazy buckets different than anything we think of as Christianity.
But back in the day, back before even the New Testament got hammered out into a collection
of books, you had all kinds of things going on, calling itself Christianity.
And most, we wouldn't even have a New Testament if a heretical group, the Marcianites, hadn't
started their own copy first.
And the ones we call Orthodox said, oh yeah, that's a good idea, we should do that too.
And I call it, I say heretical and Orthodox, but really that just means this group of Christians
over here, this group of Christians over there, there was no one single, one true faith of
Orthodox Christianity, and those heretics came later.
No, it was all one crazy mix up right from the get go.
Wow, so the Marcianites were an important spark in getting this thing going?
Yeah.
Can you talk about that a little bit, please?
Sure, Robert Price calls it a theological sputnik.
You know, this guy, Marcian, came up with this collection of books, he put some letters
of Paul together, and put some, you know, the Gospels together.
And all the other factions said, oh yeah, that's a great idea, we've got to do that
too.
But you were talking about apostolic succession, apostolic succession began as just one more
strategy to make, yours was the real deal, that oh yeah, yeah, don't believe that over
there, we've got the Gospel of Mark, oh you got the Gospel of Mark, well we've got the
Gospel of Matthew, oh you've got the Gospel of Matthew, we've got the Gospel of Mary,
you know.
And they all claimed, right from the source, that they were handed down all the way from
the get go.
But it's funny, when you get to earlier Christianity, like Paul's generation, when you ask Paul
what's an apostle, he never says anything like, oh well the twelve apostles are Jesus'
twelve disciples.
He never uses the disciple ever, in any context.
He never says Jesus had twelve disciples.
He never even implies that Jesus was on earth at all, and I talk about that at great length
in the book, because people say, well what about this, well what about this?
Yeah, no, he doesn't.
What he says an apostle is, is he breaks it down into things they can do, like they can
perform these kind of miracles, or they have visions of Jesus, or they look through the
Hebrew Scriptures, and they hear the words of Jesus talking to them through the Hebrew
Scriptures.
And you see this constantly in Paul's letters, he knows this about Jesus and that about Jesus,
why?
Because it's according to the Scriptures.
Jesus crucified and died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and on the third day he
rose according to the Scriptures.
That's his constant refrain.
And yeah, yeah.
Wow.
It looks like, I just got a secret phone call, telepathic phone call from those naysayers
of mythicism, and they want, they say, you know, David, you've got to be wrong, because
there's two passages in historic accounts to support the Jesus story, the Testimonium
Flavian, which really, really reflects Jesus in their ways this year.
Hold it, hold it, pump the brakes.
Alright, come on, have at it.
Yeah.
And then there's good reason for that.
Okay, for the readers, the listeners who don't know, the Testimonium Flavinium is this passage
in this Jewish historian, Flavius Josephus, in the first century.
And why are we making, why do we even care what he says?
Well, the short answer is because if that's not true, that means we have no corroborating
evidence for Jesus outside of Christian writings.
He is supposedly the only secular writer that talks about Jesus in the first century.
Well, actually, they claim any number of them, but he's really the only one that's
even in the same century as these guys in the first century.
Well, here's the problem.
He's got two passages in them.
One is talking about a completely different Jesus altogether.
And when you read the passage, you realize, oh yeah, that doesn't make any sense if it's
about our Jesus.
It makes perfect sense if it's about the guy who's actually in the passage and mentioned
by name, completely different.
But the other passage, the first passage, is a chapter in his book, it's a paragraph,
and it does claim to be about Jesus and said that there was a Jesus guy and he was awesome
and he rose from the dead, blah, blah, blah.
Things that no Jew at the time would have ever said.
There's so many problems with it, and there has been so many problems with it over the
years, that there's no historian who thinks it's a complete original.
What they've done, I mean, they know it's a forgery.
They know it's been tampered with.
Now what Christians will say is they've moved the goalpost and said, well, we know it's
a partial forgery, that he really did say something and some Christian monks just embellished
it, which is first, no, that's not true, that's not what happened.
And part of the reason we know that, and again, I go on a whole chapter, all the reasons we
know that this has happened.
But one of the reasons is that for the first 500 years of Christianity, there's one guy
who quotes this passage in a thousand years basically.
So for hundreds of years, we've got Christian monks loving this book by Philebus Josephus
because it gives us so much information about Jesus' time.
We have them complaining, how come Josephus doesn't say anything about Jesus?
He should have said this was because of Jesus.
We have one guy in the fourth century, Eusebius of Caesarea, suddenly cite this book that
no one's ever seen before, including the guys who were complaining about Josephus not talking
about Jesus.
And then for another 200 years, I think until Jerome, nobody says it again.
So it's like for 500 fricking years, that first millennium Christianity, one guy talks about
this long after the fact and nobody noticed it later.
So anyway, so that's it.
And here's the thing, that means, so when we lose those two passages in Josephus, and
we do because those are not about our guy, that means there's nothing in the entire first
century corroborating the Gospel story, nothing at all.
Then we have to go to the second century, third century, and most of those corroborations
are still from other Christians too, which is why Christians fight tooth and nail so
hard because if there was such a guy, there would have been any number of people who were
interested in what he had to say and did.
I wonder what I wonder what Eusebius was thinking when he sat around and he said, you know,
we got a problem.
There doesn't seem to be a witness where we need it.
There's got to be one in the first century.
And I think that's exactly what he was responding to.
This is the same guy that did biographies of Constantine, the Emperor Constantine, the
first Christian, first Christian emperor.
He changed his biography of Constantine five times while Constantine was still alive.
It's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Man.
I'm scaring my wife.
I'm talking so loud.
You're livid.
Yeah.
That's chud.
That's a good sign.
I can't even say the word Flavius Josephus in the house without her going, uh.
He's sick the death of that guy.
But it's true.
I mean, there's so many things out there that whether there was a Jesus or not, this is
amazing, you know, for all these facts about the Christian, the origins of Christianity
are so fascinating.
And it kills my heart to hear atheists repeat the same lame excuses I get from Christians
defending, oh, there had to have been a historical Jesus.
There had to be a guy.
And it's like, no, no, no, no.
Look, look at who you're quoting.
Look at what they're saying and then look what the facts are.
And that's why I wrote these three books, especially for atheists who try to tell us
there's good reason.
I think that's great.
You're because you had a motivation in mind and you had an application.
And that's what I want to kind of circle back around to.
Okay.
Because you have said on record, David, that really the question of whether Jesus was a
historical figure or a myth isn't important in and of itself.
Absolutely.
But it can become important with respect to the shaping of public policy.
Absolutely.
So talk a little bit about that.
Yeah.
See, as atheists, we're going to be fine if it turns out there was a real Jesus.
If this whole three book series and everybody else in them is completely wrong, we'll be
fine.
That's not the problem.
The problem is, is that even if there was a Jesus in the first century, a Robert Price
points this out, for all extents and purposes, there isn't one anymore because all our information
that we think we know about Paul and Jesus, that doesn't have anything to do with anybody
who actually existed in the first century.
And I'm talking about Jesus, not so much Paul.
Our four gospels have nothing to do with anybody who actually existed.
Now, whether there was a Jesus or not, for atheists, the reason that this debate is important
at all is because no matter who comes out on top at the end of the day, the historicists
or the myth of this, and for my money, I think it's going to be the myth of this, but no
matter who, in this debate back and forth, everything we learn in this debate helps us
call the bluff of anybody who says, oh, Jesus said this and he knows how we want to behave
and think and vote because at the end of the day, we, if you read this book, you will
be a Jesus agnostic at the end.
You'll realize, you know, we can't know if there was a Jesus or not.
And I'll say, I want you to be militant Jesus agnostic, so if they say, do you think there
was a Jesus?
I'll say, no, I don't, and neither do you.
Dude, David, this is good.
This is good.
And this is another thing I personally said, like, okay, if he didn't exist, like looking
back, let's say I wanted to just return back to a fate, let's say, let's go full back.
I like the idea of a mythology, Jesus, far greater.
It's much more beautiful, but anyway, you saw, okay, the book, Jesus, Mything and Action,
because this is the whole point of this, okay?
It advances the program you began in your first book.
It's nearly 900 pages, why is it so long?
That's a beautiful question.
It was meant to be, remember, it was meant to be one book.
I completely wanted to be one book, the second book in the series, of complete his heretics
guide to Western religion.
And when everything was said and done, I was talking to my sound engineer for the audio
book, and I said, yeah, okay, it's going to be kind of a big book, it's a quarter of a
million words and blah, blah, blah, and he stops you, wait, wait, how many words?
What's the word count on this?
And I said, blah, blah, blah, it's about 500 pages long.
And he says, oh, wait a second, is that six by nine, or is that eight and a half by 11?
And I went, oh no, I realize I'd been giving eight and a half by 11.
So it turns out it's more like 900 pages long, as you actually know.
So after a lot of sleepless nights, we made it a three-part book, and there are three
very easy readable books now, instead of one giant phone book of a book.
So that's why there's three of them.
And yeah, yeah.
And nailed, if someone wanted to get an introduction to the topic, nailed points out all the ten
ways that the Christian official story doesn't work, doesn't hold up.
But it doesn't talk about where I think Jesus really came from, and that's what Jesus'
myth and action does.
It talks about all the controversy in historicity.
It talks about what our Gospels say about him, what the New Testament says about him,
what outside the New Testament says about him.
And book three there, it's called The Gospel According to H.G. Wells.
It's a time travel novella about, well, okay, so we had a time machine when we wanted to
go to the origin of Christianity, where would that take us?
And it takes you to all the places that you'd be bouncing around to see where Christianity
really began.
Love it, love the argument focus of the first book, the origins focus of this series of
myth and action, and the imaginative focus of particularly that third volume, because
that reminds me, yeah, because that reminds me of Edwin Herbert's work, and hey, let's
go back and construct how history might have gone.
So I think that's just great.
Is there going to be an expansion of this book, Myth and Action, or is the third volume
the last?
What do you want to do?
I'm hoping so, because it's like, I can only talk so much about Jesus that I haven't already
said, you know, and I feel like, I mean, there's definitely some great books out there, if
you want to know more.
But I feel like this says what I wanted to say, and it's user friendly enough that if
you wanted more, I can point you to more books out there, which I do in the book.
And right now, the next book lined up to be in the Complete Heretics Guide to the Bible
series is based on my talk, which I've given called Sexy Violence, Violent Sex, the Weird
Ass Morality of the Bible, and it's all about sex and violence in the Bible.
So that and the book on Jehovah's Witnesses are going to be the next two in that series.
Good, we can't wait for that.
Thank you, sir.
Well, you'll have to wait just a little bit longer, because my wife and I, on the other
side, we're co-writing a science fiction trilogy that book one and two are, book one
is out, book two is in edits, and book three is being written as we speak.
And it's a time travel adventure series called Time Shards, and it's a lot of fun.
It's super, super fun.
I'm really proud of it.
The reviews of it have been off the hook, and writers have said really awesome things
like I can't put it down, I keep dreaming about it, which as a writer, you want to hear
that from your fellow writers.
That's cool.
I'm really pleased about that.
And I know you're a science fiction fan, because you've got a Star Trek emblem right around
your neck.
Well, yeah, but of all the guests we've ever had on this show, you're the first one who's
noticed what this is, you know, that's right, it's from Star Trek.
The IDIC.
Infinite diversity and infinite combination.
You're right, the ittik, the Vulcan symbol expressive of the philosophy of that planet.
Man, you are sharp, David.
Oh, I'm very pretty.
I think Robert Price would have got that too, though.
I think he's a big tricky two.
He probably would have got that too.
Yeah, he is.
You're right.
You're right.
Super.
Hey, Derek.
You got a question?
Yeah.
So two views.
One, a historical Jesus tainted and mythologized through oral tradition, or two, a mythical
Jesus figure from the beginning, with no need for an oral tradition to distort, could
there not still be an oral tradition contributing to the evolving Jesus myth?
Oh, that's a very thoughtful question.
My feeling is, and I go about this in great detail in the books, in Mithingian Action,
is I point out all the literary devices that we see going on and the literary construction
that we see.
When you see the literary construction that's going on in the gospels and the deconstruction
of them, there's so much literary structure going on, there doesn't seem to be any room
for a oral tradition.
It's not even a game of telephone, which is the common way that everyone says, oh, yeah,
well, that story's messed up because it just went from listener to listener to listener.
It doesn't look like that's the case.
It looks like this is literary fabrication, not oral tradition mangled.
There's lots of reasons to think that as well in the book, which I try to explain without
being too boring about it.
Wow, that's good.
That's really good.
So what do you think is the, or has been, the importance of the Jesus myth or myths
in general to our society and our world?
I mean, myths serve a certain function, don't they?
Absolutely.
In our world.
Absolutely.
The only problem is, you don't see people killing each other over Esop's fables.
You know, no, the fox and the grapes were real.
You don't need that, you know, you get all these truths in legend and you get them in
an empirical fact, but when we confuse one for the other, that's where we get in trouble.
And you're absolutely right about that because myths are horribly misused, just terribly
abused.
On the other hand, do we have some positive myths that serve an important function for
us?
What do you think?
Are there some myths that maybe inspire us to do things that we otherwise would not?
Well, I mean, you look at Star Trek itself, in a sense, it is a myth because it's a myth
that says, hey, in the future, we're going to be able to get a rise above all this stuff
we're doing now and we will, you know, we'll be united, we'll be, you know, together and
we'll do amazing, wonderful things.
That is huge.
And if you look on that show, Drunk History, you've seen that, they did a great episode
on Michelle Nichols, how she went from being a hero on Star Trek to actually recruiting
women and minorities in NASA.
It's like, it's a self-fulfilling prophecy in a way.
It's really brilliant.
I'm glad you mentioned Michelle, just a wonderful actress.
She played, of course, a hero in the original Star Trek.
And I was just looking at the video of her account of Dr. Martin Luther King begging her
not to leave the show because she was such a wonderful role model.
And here's, you know, Martin Luther King, who's the biggest Star Trek fan of all.
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
Who knew?
If you're in an astronaut, it's like, yeah!
To it!
Yeah.
Way to go.
Way to go.
Yeah.
That's brilliant.
I'm not a ship gears, but we were talking about how their censorship for scholarship
in terms of the historical robbed Jesus.
But you know about Michael Lopez Katz, Christian New Testament scholar and apologize, Michael
and central to his thesis.
Break it down, David, break it down.
Well, he's just one of the case studies that I do in that.
I think I've got a half dozen in there.
And as you say, these are guys who aren't atheists.
They're not mythicists.
They are Bible-leaving scholars.
And it just shows you how easy it
is for these guys to get in hot water, not just
with the college, but with the financial backers
of the college.
And it's like, yeah, this is not a conspiracy theory.
This is just Christians being Christians.
It's like, what else are they going to do?
But it just shows you what a rocky road this is about how
thorny it is.
And I quote from all these scholars
on all sides of this theological fence,
talking about this problem.
Some of my best points that I have to make in the book
come from these Christians who were complaining about this
very fact that there's a great book out there
written by two Christians about the demise of authenticity,
Jesus' criterion and the demise of authenticity,
something along those lines, where
they're talking about how our tools that we use to determine
what's real and what's not in the Bible,
three times we've had these major quests
for the historical Jesus.
And at the end of them, they've all said, oh, that doesn't hold up.
Oh, that doesn't hold up.
They've thrown up their hands at the end of this and said,
OK, we have to start all over.
And this three times has happened so far.
And Rick Carrier's book, Proving History,
gives you a nice point-by-point description
of where all these tools and arguments fail.
Yeah.
Wow, OK.
Yeah, go ahead, David.
I just want to make one more point,
because this has nothing to do with what we're talking about.
And yet I don't want to forget to say it,
because this blew my mind.
One of the side effects that I came across
from researching the Jesus' historicity issue
is having Buddhist scholars and ex-Muslim scholars come up to me
and say, you know what, we're having these same arguments
in our circles about whether the Buddha was real
or whether Muhammad was real.
Nice.
Boom.
Fantastic.
Fine.
And I said, wait, Muhammad.
Oh, no, of course he was real, right?
And then they said, well, here's the thing.
And then they start listing the reasons
why they're putting it into question.
And it's like, oh, it sounds a lot like Jesus now.
Yeah, Luther, were you about to ask a question, brother?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
OK, I'll take the next question.
Let's see.
Well, really, David, come on now.
You have wedded our appetites sufficiently.
We have a fire hose now on this book.
So give us the layout.
And just tell us what.
Because obviously, this book spans everything
from historical evidence to policy implications
to case studies.
So just give us the whole layout of the book, if you will.
And yet, it's a super easy, fun book to read, isn't it?
Yeah, it's awesome.
So yeah, we're talking about four books, really,
because Nailed is sort of the first book in the series.
It's so complicated because you wound up putting three books
into one volume stuck into a series that has nothing
to do with this other book over here.
It's very confusing.
But let me break it down really fast.
So you've got Nailed talks about the top 10 ways
that Christianity's official story just does not
cut the mustard.
Then we've got Jesus mything in action, one, two, and three.
So in book one, I talk about, first of all,
that how I got on this search for Jesus,
how it's been really problematic aspects about it
in history and why.
And talking about how biblical historians, for the most part,
work for Jesus.
They're not going to be saying there's no Jesus anytime soon.
Give some case studies about that.
I talk about, I should say, let me back up.
I start out by saying, if you're going
to say anything about who Jesus was, what He did, what He said,
and what's the real Jesus, the first thing you have to ask
is, well, what's our sources for that?
And what do they say?
And so that's what I do.
I go to our gospels.
I talk about how all our biographical information comes
from those four books, which actually comes really
from the first book.
And then talk about how the information
that we get from the rest of the New Testament
and from outside the New Testament
even draws Jesus' historicity into more question.
And then I do a time travel thing,
just kind of giving you a sort of a fun adventure way
to see where Christianity came from and just its troubled
evolution.
And there's some amazing things.
And again, at the end of the day,
whether there is a Jesus or not,
you're still learning stuff about Christianity
that will just blow your mind whether at the end of the day
you think there was a Jesus or not.
I'll leave that to you.
But when I see everything that's going on, it's like,
how could there be?
How could there be?
This sounds like a fascinating book.
I can't wait to get my own because I lost you.
I lost you.
Can you hear me?
I lost you.
I lost you.
You start to say, this looks like a far.
And then I lost you.
This looks like a fascinating book.
It really does.
And I can't wait to get my own.
And something to ask you, and I guess it's just,
I would like to have your, what is the most surprising
response that you have gotten to this book?
Well, here's the thing.
When Nailed came out in 2010, I got so much crap
from our fellow atheists saying,
oh, that's ridiculous, boy.
When these books came out,
I was kind of gearing up to get more of the same.
No, in just those seven years,
Jesus has gone much more mainstream
than I ever expected it to.
And again, this is somebody who says
mythism will never be mainstream in biblical studies
for all these reasons out in the first couple chapters.
And yet, it's becoming more and more obvious.
The cracks are showing.
It's just like evolution.
It's like evolution, Darwin didn't just come down
from the mountain with the origin of species.
The cracks had been showing for a long time
and finally it burst.
And that's what's happening with mythism as well.
They've got all these problems
with Jesus's official story.
And they can't get around them.
And even increasingly,
Christians are saying, well, yeah, that's true.
Well, yeah, that's true.
When you do that enough times,
there's one professor, Kurt Knowles, who says,
you know, it's not even an important question
whether the Jesus or not.
Because everything we see in early Christianity,
we can account for whether there was a dude at the beginning
or not.
And that's something that atheists should know.
And that's something Christians should know
that atheists know.
This is good stuff, you know,
gauging the changing public reaction to your work.
And you can see the development over the years.
We were talking to author Tim Freik about this.
And he released his book, The Jesus Mysteries.
You may be familiar with it.
And Dr. Edwin Herbert, who wrote Mythos Christos,
and I were chatting a couple of days ago
about our admiration for Tim Freik's book
and how important it has been for our life and work.
What makes Jesus mything in action the jewel
in my library?
What does it do that's so special
that the other books don't do in your own estimation?
In my all modesty, in all due modesty,
I think the best thing that I bring to the table
is that I'm able to take the work
of like Richard Carrier, Robert Price,
people who are far more scholarly
and I am far more erudite and knowledgeable,
and I'm able to distill it down to its essence
and make it funny as hell, too.
Yes, and make it readable.
Yeah, it's a fun ass read.
And that's what I'm most proud of
is that I feel like I'm the guy
who's been able to like reach out between,
look, these are what these guys are doing.
I feel like the combat reporter from The Trinches.
You know, of the, this is a score.
It's good, it's good.
Yeah.
I like this because, I mean, first,
it's just like, it's like,
here's Mythosist Saturday Night Live right here,
you know what I mean?
I'm like, this is good.
I love that.
Well, you.
I love that.
I'm glad you carry a sense of humor as well
because too many scholars will take these things so serious.
And it's like, you know, how many,
like if you really want to get nitty gritty,
how many people have been burned at the stake for stuff,
you know, so.
Thank you, we've got it easy, yeah.
We have it easy and I'm gonna use the word, we're blessed.
So, it's interesting to see how things have changed.
So let's take a, let's take a roll back
to your childhood for a second.
And I'm no psychologist.
No, I'm just kidding.
So how did you get from there to here?
What.
That's a great question.
Did you have that led you or prepared you
to do this work or the work you're about to do?
I sure did.
Now I was raised Southern Baptist,
which as we all know is the one true faith, you know.
And honestly, I believed it well into my college years.
I really, you know, did and everybody assumed
I was gonna become a preacher.
And it all started with a woman.
All my stories start with, there's this woman, see.
And there was a friend of mine, Wendy,
and she was this pagan earth mother Renaissance fair type.
And she didn't believe anything about Christianity.
She, you know, she believed in all kind of crazy stuff.
But the way we would flirt with each other
is that we would have theological arguments.
So one day we're going back and forth on it.
And she goes, well, Dave, you know, the Hindu religions,
like 3000 years older than Christianity.
And I was all set to jump down her case and go,
oh, no, it's not.
And I stopped and I realized, you know what?
I have no idea if Christianity is older
than Hinduism or not.
And I realized I was about to say something
that I didn't know was true or not.
And that hit me like a bolt from the blue.
There's the old talking head song.
It's like, you know, am I right or am I wrong?
My God, what have I done?
It's like there was a little Dave Byrne on my shoulder
and saying that from that instant, boom.
It was like, whoa, what have I done?
What have I said?
I'm just like the Mormons and the Jehovah's Witnesses.
I'm just parroting back what I was taught.
And honestly, I can pinpoint that second.
I was a Christian that millisecond.
I didn't know what I was anymore,
but it wasn't a Christian anymore.
Yeah. And it, and again, 16 years later,
I was perfectly happy Christian thinking
there was a Jesus and it wasn't until I read
an awesome book called Kim's Guide to the Bible.
One of the only books I've read entirely through
in one sitting, it's another hilarious book.
And he questions how, you know,
you read this one gospel and Jesus is, you know, this way.
You read the other gospel and Jesus like that way.
And it got me thinking, he says, you know what?
I want, he's right.
I wonder what the real Jesus was like
and how much of it was made up.
And there my troubles began
because I say in the book,
once you start pulling on that thread,
all of a sudden you realize, hey,
I've got no sweater anymore.
And it's been fascinating.
It blew my mind when two years down the road,
I was thinking, I don't think this guy existed at all.
And then to find out,
I wasn't the only person thinking that
and that this argument has been going on
for decades, if not centuries.
And then the more I found out about the evolution
and the origins of Christianity,
it just blew, I could not wrap my head about it.
It's like, no Jesus, what, what?
How is that even possible?
And it's fascinating.
It just blows my mind
to see this huge enchilada called Christianity,
how it came out.
And realizing now that probably Buddhism and Judaism
and Islam and all of those major world religions
started the exact same way
by somebody saying once upon a time, you know.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
David, you have taken us on this evolutionary tour
of your personal development,
how the book reflects that,
everything from the hardcore scholarship
to what it means for us today.
Let's go out with this idea.
Give us an example of somebody that you know
or that you know of who has learned from mythicism
and maybe use that knowledge in their activism
or in their approach to public policy.
I'm sure there's somebody out there that you admire
who has learned these things,
incorporated them into what they do
toward making a fairer world, a more equitable world,
more tolerant, more appreciative world.
You must see that happening.
I guess I do.
I mean, I get letters from people all the time,
thanking me for it and telling me how much
they love the book.
I was gonna say, it certainly affected my activism.
That's for damn sure.
As far as, I mean, I can't name names on the radio,
but I know, I mean, I've got a file of 40 pages
that's nothing but paragraphs of people saying
how much they liked the books.
And when I'm beating my head against the wall,
I say, why am I dealing with atheists
who can't even believe them?
Why am I dealing with Christians
who can't even go an inch on this?
I go back and I read that, okay, that's why.
That's why, okay, I'm a different person.
I ask people.
I told you my next book in the series
is gonna be Sex and Violence in the Bible.
When I first gave that talk,
one of the first times I gave that talk,
I had a friend say, David,
I brought two Christian friends to the talk.
They spent the whole time to your talk like this.
I got another email.
It's like every day I got a new email from her,
okay, they're holed up in their hotel.
No one's seen them for like three days now.
And the last one I got was, they've left their church.
Oh, wow.
And it's, yeah, it's stories like that I live for.
I live for because, you know, yeah,
the world of atheism and the world on social media
can be so contentious sometimes
and so torn apart and divided
and never more so than now.
And yet I think it's still our best hope
for making the world a better place.
Secularism, rationality, avoiding superstition,
avoiding woo, getting past all that
and working together to build a better world.
I can dig it.
Look, David, what if our audience is listening right now
and they're listening to saying,
how do we get ahold of this guy?
How do we buy his book?
Where do we need to go?
Where do they need to go?
Of course, it's gonna be in the description of this video
on this YouTube channel.
But I really would like for you to just verbalize
how they get ahold of your stuff.
Yeah, getting ahold of it,
the best way to do it, it's available everywhere.
On Amazon, Barnes & Noble,
you can always, I always encourage people,
go to your local bookseller
who's in their brick and mortar store,
order it from them, see if they can order it
because it's important to support your local bookstores.
But you can find it anywhere.
You can find me on Facebook especially.
You can always send me an email
at everybodylovesdave at gmail.com
and I'm happy to hear from you.
Yeah, and-
Do you have a website?
You know, I should and I don't yet
and that's on my short list of things to do
when I can finish sitting down long enough to do it.
We will have a website.
But for now, Facebook is probably the easiest way
to get ahold of me and find out where I'm speaking next
and things like that.
Not a problem, brother.
I have one last question.
Luther, before I hand you the torch, bro,
because you're gonna end up finishing us out here.
What if, hypothetical now, now we're,
now everybody take your shoes off,
get your pillows on,
because I'm gonna ask a rough one here,
but I just wanna say to test you on where you're at in this
because this is something I've been thinking
and scratching my head going,
what if scholarship, or let me say it like this,
what if the mythicist scholars
begin to see Paul as possibly
a fictional character at some point.
What would you, I know that there's fictional aspects.
He's been thought like, what if they began to say,
hold on, I'm questioning this character altogether.
Where would you be?
Well, and that's a good way to phrase it
because in the end of the day,
he is more of a character than an actual person.
For me personally, that's going a little too far
because we have, of his writings,
half of them seem to be consistent enough
that they were from the same person,
even though they've been heavily tampered with,
they probably chopped up several letters
and formed this one.
He was probably real,
but there's so many weird things about Paul,
including the fact that we've got all this stuff
written in his name that's clearly was not by him,
including the fact that for the full first century,
basically, of Christianity, he's the one dude.
He's the only Christian we hear from.
It's like, what about Peter?
What about all these apostles?
What about the early church leaders?
What about their church records?
Nothing, we get this bullshit church history from Luke,
which is completely fake.
And that's it.
It's like, it's weird.
We don't even have heretical versions of these things.
You know, they either burned them all
or they were never written in the first place.
It's very, very weird.
Good point.
That's a great point.
And that's kind of like, you know,
I think most scholar or at least I know for sure,
Robert Price, Richard Carrier,
they believe he's historical.
Well, Price is actually questioned
if any of the Paul's letters are genuine, in fact.
Wow.
He thinks they might all be later forgeries
and push that question around.
He does push it onto the Martian night or to Martian.
That is interesting that you bring that up
because I forgot about that.
And that's something I want to ask you
because, you know, we have so many people
and I'm not even going off in the different tangents
of what maybe someone else is supposing.
I'm just saying in the scholarly realm of scholars,
our mythicist scholars, what if they start going,
hey guys, I hate to break it to you,
but it's becoming more apparent
there may not have been a Paul at all.
You know what I mean?
I wonder, I wonder.
And here's another thing to remember
that not all mythicism writings are created equal.
There's some crazy ass mythicism out there.
It's like, no, no, that never happened.
That's not wrong.
That's not right.
So, you know, it's an interesting evolutionary process there,
too, of seeing which ideas and mythicism shake out
and turn out to be true and which are false.
I have no doubt at the end of the day
that Christianity is way gnarlier and convoluted
and goes off in more different directions
than we'll ever be able to figure out.
But just what we know already is enough to blow our minds
and to really call into question
that any of this is legit.
Awesome, David.
I would love to see you on another panel
with price and carrier.
I have done, I have done with both of those gentlemen.
Yeah.
And we have last.
Oh my goodness, it was a fun time, wonderful time.
I mean, you guys are wonderful, capable scholars all,
but I kind of think of...
Two out of three isn't bad anyway.
No, but really, I think of Dr. Carrier
as kind of the, you know, he's kind of a head there,
the thinking part, kind of the mind.
No, I mean, I feel like comic relief
when I'm with those two on stage.
Well, no, not so much of that.
Follow my analogy now.
Okay, all right.
And then you come down from the head
and then you have the heart and the soul of it.
And that to me is Dr. Bob Price.
And I love his openness about things.
I love the way he gently receives, you know, ideas
and he'll mold them around.
And there's just kind of a beautiful attitude
that he has in approaching these issues.
And then you come down to the feet
where the road meets the road.
What are we gonna do with it?
What does it mean at the end of the day?
And that's you, David.
Oh, I thought you were gonna say funny bones.
But yes.
So wait, I'm gonna stop with three parts.
I think that more or less covers it.
We love you.
We love you, David.
We love your work.
Thanks so much for coming by on the show.
Will you do it again?
I would love to, you guys, this has been a blast.
I am delighted to be here.
Thanks so much for having me.
And yeah, we could, I'd be very happy to do this anytime.
Thanks, brother.
Great, great.
Best wishes to you.
Derek, last word?
Get in that description, guys.
His book, his books.
They're too many.
He had to do three.
He's trying to check them out.
And this is amazing.
It's great.
At least educate yourself on this.
And, you know, he might be the funny bone.
He might be the feet.
There's a spot between the feet and the heart.
And his next book that's coming out,
it might be like a little bit, you know, sexual.
So you might get where I'm going with that.
Yeah, it's a whole different body part.
But you know, you can't kick ass without feet.
Oh, there you go.
Oh, that's right.
That's a keeper.
This was awesome.
You're a great guy.
You really are.
Thanks so much.
You know, this is just something I really
look forward to reading in the book.
And I know Luther is, is, well, we really
would love to have you on as a panel guest as well,
with Carrier and possibly Dr. Bob.
That'll be like- I would love that.
I would absolutely love that.
Trying to put stars up, though, because these guys are busy.
And so- Absolutely.
It is tricky.
It is tricky.
But it's not impossible.
There is a YouTube clip of the three of us in San Jose
at a talk, which if you're listeners have seen,
it's worth checking out.
Yeah, I saw that one.
That's the one I had in mind.
That was a wonderful time you guys had there.
Maybe it was a lot of fun.
Yep.
Yes, sir.
Thank you for taking the time for us.
And guys, thanks again so much.
It's been lovely.
Yes, sir.
Keep up the good work.
Thank you, David.
Keep working in the world of better place.
And thanks again.
We'll do it again soon.
You too.
Thank you.
Thank you, David.
Good night.
Good night.
Thanks, guys.
