And Christ says in Revelation chapter 2 that I will take Jezebel and I will throw her on a bed.
Okay, so some translations say hospital bed or sick bed. No, the word is bed and she doesn't get
sick as in a hospital. Men come and have sex with her. Christ has thrown her in a bed. Men come and
have sex with her. We're not told if they're raping her or if she's willing to have sex with them.
But Christ says he's going to plague these men and he's going to kill her babies.
Christ is going to kill her babies. This is Revelation chapter 2 verse 22.
I want people to let that sink in for a second.
It's a horrible scene. This is Christ. This is Christ. And so there the Christians, the Jewish,
the synagogue, the Jewish community is understood to be empowered by Satan.
Okay, that's not very ecumenical. Yeah.
Bart D. Ehrman, thank you for joining me again. Does it sound weird when I put your middle initial
addressing you? No, it is my middle initial. It just sounds funny because I write it that way,
but it's like Bart D. Ehrman. So Jesus is coming back next Thursday or Friday. I can't remember
which day it is, correct? Well, you'll know when it happens. You have an upcoming webinar. I hope
everybody takes the time to go and sign up. It's not costly and it's going to be informative on a
topic that's dear to my heart. One of the last standing places I was within Christianity was
eschatology and it was Jesus said some things or at least the Gospels say that Jesus said some
things and the book of Revelation, which you recently published a book on. So can you tell us
briefly about what this webinar is going to be about? So the webinar is devoted to the issue of
the rapture. The rapture is this idea that you find in fundamentalist and conservative evangelical
circles that says that Jesus is coming back probably soon to take his followers out of the
world. The followers of Jesus will be raptured. They'll be snatched up, which is what rapture means,
that we snatched up and taken to heaven so that they don't have to experience the next seven years.
The next seven years will be a period of tribulation on the earth, horrible suffering.
The Antichrist will rise up. There'll be military issues, wars everywhere,
natural catastrophes until after seven years even God gets fed up and intervenes and destroys the
whole lot of them who have not sided with them. The followers of Jesus seven years earlier
have taken out so they don't have to be here for it. My lecture is on the rapture and where this
idea came from because everybody simply assumes that it's in the Bible and probably comes from
the book of Revelation and in fact it does not. It doesn't come from the book of Revelation and
in fact it's never in the Bible. That seems counterintuitive to people because they've heard
verses from the Bible that sure sound like the rapture to them and I'll be trying to show why
these verses in fact are not talking about what they say they're talking about and it's actually
not that hard to prove but people don't see it. I have never been told this before.
You have gone on record saying Jesus failed as an apocalyptic figure.
Am I right? No, I don't think I've said he's failed but I have said he was wrong.
Okay, so I don't like to think of Jesus as a failure but Jesus thought that the end was coming
in his own generation. He, like other apocalypticists, he thought the end was coming in his generation
and no, he was wrong about that. It did not happen then.
So if we take your particular, it's not just yours, it's the scholarly assessment that Jesus
expected the Son of Man which was not him to come soon and the Kingdom of God which was going to be a
real physical actual Kingdom of God on earth which seems to be depicted in some way revelation.
This millenarian figure named John on the island of Patmos seems to have also this idea that God's
actual Kingdom is going to come to earth. Whether we interpreted that way or through the lens that
well the Jesus is the one who's going to come and he's the Son of Man, both of those fell.
No matter what path you take, it fails unless you're a Gnostic who imagines this in some esoteric
spiritual way but then again nothing actually happened, right?
The book of Revelation does think it's going to happen soon and that it did not happen but there
have been, you know, for the course of most of Christian history, biblical scholars and theologians
have insisted that Revelation was not predicting that. It's not that they were Gnostics, they
weren't Gnostics but going back to St. Augustine in the 5th century, St. Augustine argued that when
the book of Revelation describes the future millennium on earth where there'd be a thousand-year
reign of Christ here on earth, that he was actually talking about what was going to happen when the
church took over the Roman world, that the church would reign on earth, that Christ would rule through
the church and during the millennium in the book of Revelation, Satan is bound and is unable to
harm anybody and according to Augustine, Satan cannot hurt anybody in the church because they
have the power of God behind them and so Satan is bound for anyone who believes. And so the
interpretation of Revelation that lasted century after century after century until relatively
modern times was not that it's predicting the future. John himself thought he was predicting
the future but not in the way fundamentalists think but he did think this was going to happen
soon so he did fail at that. He was wrong about that too but it's not that Christians have always
thought that Christians typically have thought that it's happening now, the millennium is now.
There's so much thought on this and of course I'm sure you're going to cover a lot of this in the
webinar. I recently interviewed Robert J. Miles and James Crossley on the book Jesus, A Life in
Class Conflict and we were talking about Revelation in passing and this millenarian idea. I'm throwing
out a few names, you know all of these people, Dr. John Dominic Crossen, his approach and ultimately
what we walked away and I'd love to get your thoughts on the book of Revelation being written
by this guy named John who is a millenarian. He thinks that it's going to happen soon apocalyptic
wise that God's going to come bring revenge and judgment but they think that there's some of that,
there's still this like continuity to Jesus as a figure in a similar vein. I know that John's
writing this later at the end of the first century but that in that same vein there's some
connection. Do you think that while there's big differences, do you think there's some connection
because you've mentioned in the past that Jesus' teachings were more love the poor and help the
poor and stuff and I know John's not mentioning that. I think he might be traumatized by what
happened in 70 but do you think that behind the message of Jesus it's like well God's going to
come and make the least the first or the last first and the ones on the bottom on top which means
he is still going to destroy and kick the butt of those who are rich, who are being the way
they are toward his people so there's still a butt kick in coming. It's just not as
bloody and wrathful as we see in Revelation. Well no, that's been my argument about Jesus
for as long as I've been a scholar is that contrary to John Dominic Crossman who does not
think that is what Jesus was all about, I think Jesus was an apocalyptic prophet. He thought that
the end of the world was coming soon, that God was soon to intervene, he was going to destroy
everything and everybody opposed to him and bring in a kingdom where those who lived righteously would
be rewarded. And so the issue for me with the book Revelation is not whether it has an apocalyptic
view. I mean obviously a book called The Apocalypse is going to have an apocalyptic view and the
apocalyptic Jesus had an apocalyptic view so they have apocalyptic views but the way they work out
their apocalyptic views are radically different from each other. In Jesus' apocalyptic view for one
thing when God destroys his enemies he's not going to torture them, he destroys them. In the book
Revelation God destroys people after torturing them and so that's, you know, I don't think Jesus
thought that at all. There's nowhere in the Gospels. When Jesus talks about the destruction
that's coming it's an annihilation and John in the book Revelation makes clear that it's not an
annihilation. At one point one of the catastrophes that hits the earth is that these locusts come
out of a pit that spread all over the earth and they have the power to inflict pain. They sting
everybody except for the followers of Jesus. They sting everybody and these people are in
excruciating pain for five months and are not allowed to die. And so there's nothing they
can do about it and that's one of the punishments that God sends, the Christ sends in the book
Revelation and you know that is just not Jesus of the Gospels. Jesus of the Gospels doesn't,
he's not into the torture and into the prolonged agony and so there's that difference and the other
difference is that the book Revelation maintains that there's only a tiny slice of people that are
going to survive this coming onslaught. It's not even all Christians. There are a lot of Christians
who are going to be wiped out with everyone else and thrown into a live, they'll be thrown,
they'll live into a lake of burning sulfur. That's how they're going to be destroyed and
but a lot of, including a lot of Christians and it depends precisely that you believe precisely
there are things about Jesus and you do precisely the right things about Jesus which are the things
that John himself believes and does. You do those things you'll survive otherwise it's off to the
lake of fire and that's not at all what Jesus taught. Jesus taught that in fact what matters
before God is that you help those who are in need. Those who are poor, those who are hungry,
those who are homeless, you take care of them and God will welcome you into his kingdom. You don't,
then you're going to be fried. It's almost like John is obsessed with the idea of just separating
yourself from Rome really in the participation in Rome. That is the achievement of not getting
destroyed. He's so obsessed and angry and this is me reading into it but I imagine PTSD or some
hatred toward what they did to the Jews in 70 and Elaine Pagels wrote about this in her book on
Revelation. Kind of wanted to get your comments on where, you know, here's Rome, a male in this
figurine, there's some gender studies that can be done on this where there's a rape act on each
nation with a blade to the throat of the woman which represented the Jews and so here's this man
saying, God, how long? No, you're going to come in and I know what's going to happen so the message
isn't so much of like a conflict of treating poor people or people who are hungry or things like
that. It's more like segregate or separate yourself from what Rome is doing and that Rome is the bad
guy in the whole picture. Is that correct? Yeah, well, I agree. I agree that Rome is the problem
for the book Revelation. I think it's quite clear. One of the things I do in my book on Armageddon is
try to show how we know that because for anybody who knows what to look for, historical scholars,
this is just commonplace. When he talks about the beast from the sea that is referred to by many
people call him the Antichrist. The term Antichrist does not appear in the book of Revelation,
but this is the figure. They call the Antichrist figure. It's quite clear. This is the Roman emperor
and the enemy is the city of Rome. The whore of Babylon in chapter 17, the whore of Babylon is
Rome. That can be demonstrated from the text itself. 666 is a reference to the Roman emperor,
Nero. This can be shown from the text itself. I do all that in my book. The one thing I disagree with
is that I don't know that this author was Jewish. I don't know that he was Jewish.
I don't know that the destruction of the temple, per se,
that has caused him a lot of anxiety. He clearly thinks Rome is the problem,
but it's not the Roman treatment of Jews. That's the problem. It's the Roman treatment of Christians
whether they're Jewish or not. In this book, it presupposes that the vast majority of the
followers of Jesus are non-Jewish. I don't know whether he was Jewish or not, frankly,
but definitely Rome is the enemy. What do we do with Paul? We talk about Paul
in some ways. You see it contradict Jesus, of course, in his letters versus what we find in
the Gospels. Paul's view of what is the paracea. You also find this language in Revelation of
this kind of paracea, the coming of the Lord. It seems like this author is aware of the sibling
oracles. At least, I've seen Nero Redivivus play its role in some of the sibling oracles as we
see it in Revelation. I'm wondering, does Paul contradict this guy, John? Elaine Pagels, I think,
tried to make a point that she even thought maybe there's a jab at Paul in the second angel to the
church where there's this idea of meat sacrificed to idols. Anyway, I don't know where you fall on
some of these details, but what are your thoughts about John and Paul? Do they contradict in their
views of the end? They're broadly very similar. Jesus is coming back to destroy his enemies
and will bring in a kingdom. They're broadly similar in many ways. I disagree with Elaine
on this point. I don't think that Paul is the target of the book of Revelation. I think there's
very slim evidence for that. The one point where they do overlap, they overlap in a number of points,
but the one point has to do with food offered to idols, whether it's appropriate to eat it or not.
Paul talks about this in 1 Corinthians 8 and 10, and he thinks basically, you should not eat the
meat. He talks about the pluses and minuses, basically, and says, yeah, but in the end,
don't do it. John has a very decided view that anyone who is a follower of Jesus who eats meat
that has been previously offered to an idol has committed a sin that will be punished horribly.
God will destroy this person. His most vivid image of this is in his discussion. It's not
of a Paul figure. It's a woman prophetess in the city of Thyatira. She's active in a particular
church that Paul has never been associated with, Thyatira. John calls her Jezebel. Jezebel is
the name of a wicked queen who really was bad news for Israel in the Old Testament. This woman is
bad news for the Christians, according to John, because she thinks it's okay, John says, to eat
the meat, as did some people in Corinth when Paul was writing him. It's okay to eat the meat.
The background of this, if you don't mind, I'll take a second on this because it's a really
important passage. The background of this is that in the ancient world, you didn't have butchers who
were just kind of setting up shop. Most people didn't eat meat a lot because it was expensive.
If you did eat meat, usually, almost always, it was meat that had been sacrificed in the temple.
You've got a family party, or you've got a block party, or you've got a neighbor party,
you've got a city party, and you go to the temple, and you're going to have some meat,
and you sacrifice the animal to one of the gods. Then the priests slaughter the animal,
and they butcher it, and they skin it, and they burn the skin, and the bones, and the fat to the
gods, or to the god. Then the meat gets taken for the people to eat, and whatever is left over,
the priests sell. If you're going to eat meat in the ancient world, you're buying temple meat.
Christians wondered, is that okay? It's like it's been offered to a god. Some are saying,
we get more of this in Corinth, in 1 Corinthians, but some are saying, well, yeah, that's okay to
eat. These gods don't exist. You're not really sacrificing to a god. If there's no god there,
you can't eat meat offered to a god if there's no god. It's okay. They're just like,
they're mistaken about this. Other people are saying, no, no, no. This is a participating
in pagan worship. You can't do it. Paul weighs in and says, yeah, okay, don't do it. John weighs in
and says, oh, my god, if you do this. Jezebel is saying, it's okay to do it. We don't know what
she was saying. You know, to put a good read on it, she might be saying, look, your neighbors invite
you over for a meal and they're not Christian. You're Christian. Go to the meal. Eat their meal.
They serve you meat. Eat the meat. It'll give you a chance to talk to them about Jesus. You can
spread the word. Maybe they get more interested. You can invite them to the church. And you know,
she may be saying something like that. But John thinks that she's the spawn of Satan
for allowing people to eat meat offered to idols. And he said, this is in one of the letters that
Christ dictates to John that he sends to this church in Thyatira where Christ says that this
Jezebel has urged people to worship idols and to commit fornication in Jewish thinking and
then Christian thinking after it. Idolatry was always connected with sexual sins for some reason.
So, he says that Jezebel is doing this and Christ says in Revelation chapter 2 that,
I will take Jezebel and I will throw her on a bed. Okay, so some translations say hospital bed
or sick bed. No, the word is bed and she doesn't get sick as in a hospital. Men come and have sex
with her. Christ has thrown her on a bed. Men come and have sex with her. We're not told if they
are raping her or if she's willing to have sex with them. But Christ says he's going to plague
these men and he's going to kill her babies. Christ is going to kill her babies. This is
Revelation chapter 2, verse 22. So, the outcome is very similar to Paul's, don't eat the meat,
but the view of it is really quite drastically different.
I want people to let that sink in for a second.
It's a horrible scene. This is Christ. And so, part of my view of my book on Armageddon is that
the view of Revelation, the understanding of Jesus in Revelation is not the understanding
of Jesus in the Gospels. And I don't think the view of this author, John of Patmos,
I don't think his understanding of Christ is Jesus' own understanding of himself or his Gospel.
And there's a mention of Satan's throne too. I don't know if you've done any background knowledge
on that. What the heck is that about? In one of these letters that Christ dictates through John
to the seven churches of Asia Minor, he speaks of a church that are being opposed by the synagogue,
which is the throne of Satan. And so there, the Christians, the synagogue, the Jewish community
is understood to be empowered by Satan. Okay, that's not very ecumenical.
Yeah, this fits why you were saying maybe we don't even know what this author, like,
if they're Jewish or not, and it might fit within the trope of what we see happening later at the
end of the first century, start of the second, with this anti-Jewish or anti-Judaism, I'll say,
rhetoric. People use crazy arguments to argue this guy's a Jew, and he may be a Jew. John was
a Jewish name, but he's living at the end of in the 90s. Peter wasn't a Christian name until Peter
came along, and then until Jesus renamed Peter, then people started calling their kids Peter. So I
don't know if this is a Christian who's named this person, their child, John, after one of the
famous Johns, or whether, I don't know, he's not, he's not called John, John the son of Zebedee,
but people use crazy arguments to say, well, he's got to be Jewish. You know, he quotes the Old
Testament a lot, you know, he refers to the Old Testament, so he's got to be Jewish, right? Who
else would know the Old Testament? And you think, what are you talking about? I mean, what, I mean,
have you read anything? These scholars say this. I mean, 1st Clement was written just about the
same time. 1st Clement is written by a Gentile, and the whole thing is about the Old Testament.
The idea that only Jews knew the Old Testament, I mean, Christians, people who became Christians,
who converted, or people who grew up in Christian families by the end of the first century,
of course they knew the Old Testament, they quote it. And so when Paul writes 1 Corinthians,
he's writing to people that he says were pagans, and he has the most complicated interpretations
of the Old Testament, and he expects his readers to know what he's talking about.
So it's a silly argument to say that if he quotes the Old Testament, he's got to be Jewish.
Wow. I have one more question for you, Dr. Airman, and that is, all the research you've done over
the decades, you know, your scholarship, would you say learning the historical, cultural significance
to the context of the material we're reading, the book of Revelation, Paul's letters, the
Gospels, whatever it may be, do you think that knowing that historical context played some role
in you not believing it literally is true anymore? I mean, another way of phrasing it is,
do you think finding out who, what, when, where, how, and why played a role in your deconversion?
From Christianity?
Yes, sir.
No, I don't. I have a lot of Christian friends, scholar friends, who would agree with everything
I've said today, who are still Christians. I met up with one of my best friends last night,
who's a Presbyterian minister, who agrees with everything I would have said just now.
And so, this kind of information will almost certainly, if you really, if you really look
into it and buy into it, it will almost certainly lead you away from being a fundamentalist.
And, you know, you're going to have trouble staying in the evangelical camp, even as a liberal,
although you could do, but there are plenty of Christian scholars who are, who are,
who are experts on revelation. I mean, I think, well, famous scholars that you know,
if you know anything about the book of Revelation and you know who's written about it,
say, in the last 20 years, New Testament scholars, most of them are Christian, almost all of them.
I can't think of anybody who's not a Christian, actually. So, this is not what leads you away
from faith. This leads you to an informed faith. So, if you, people who are Christian can still
be Christian. Being Christian does not mean you believe in the Bible. Being, being Christian means
that you, you know, you have this idea that there is a divine being in the world and that,
that Christ in some way manifests this divine being so you can understand God better or relate to
God better. There are lots of different kinds of Christian. I left Christianity because I thought
that the, that I could no longer accept the idea of a powerful and loving God in charge of this
world given all of the horrible, horrible suffering in it. And I just got to a point,
I didn't believe that there's a God who's active in any way at all in this world. So,
that's why I left Christianity. It had nothing to do with knowing that there was no rapture in
the New Testament, you know, or that the, the 666 is Nero, you know, or that the enemy of
Revelation is Rome. It's got nothing to do with any of that. That led me away from being a fundamentalist
and moved me away from being an evangelical to being a liberal Christian. But liberal Christian
scholars agree with, with most of this. So that, that in that question, sorry, I'm keeping you
just a tad bit longer here. You're hitting something important to me is like as a liberal
Christian, that meant you probably still accepted that Jesus rose for some reason. I know John
Dominic Cross and doesn't, he thinks it's more of an allegory or something. But like, did you,
did, as you de-converted, did your perception of the resurrection also change? Cause now you're
like, okay, God, how could he allow all this evil, this suffering, this wicked stuff that we see
around us, like children and cancer and you name it. Oh, the list can go on. Did, after you came
to that conclusion, did you then reevaluate the resurrection? Or were you already as a liberal
Christian? Cause I know you had a slow transition there. Start going, well, maybe this isn't,
this didn't literally happen, but I still believe in the faith. I mean, when did you
change your view on the resurrection? I changed it before I left Christianity. I believe that
the resurrection spoke a very powerful message about how death is not the end of the story.
And that it's the same, in some ways, it's the same message of revelation. I think revelation is a
really, it's a very, it's a, it's a problematic book. I mean, there's a lot of evil that happens
in revelation that claims God is doing it. And I don't, I don't believe that. But the basic idea
that at the end, good will triumph and that, that God, however you define God, God will win.
That basic idea I held on to as a liberal Christian, but I didn't think that the resurrection
literally physically happened. I thought it was a metaphor for the fact that good will triumph
and the death is not the end of the end of the story. When I stopped being a Christian for these
other reasons, because of the issue of theodicy about trying to explain the problem of suffering,
when I left Christianity for that reason, then there is no longer even an issue. I mean,
you can't, God can't raise Jesus from the dead if there's no God. And so that, that one's easy.
But as a Christian still, you know, and again, I know a lot of Christian people, scholars,
who don't believe in a literal physical resurrection of Jesus. They just, they don't
think that happened. They don't believe in a virgin birth. They don't, you know, that isn't
what they think Christianity is all about. Many people say, well, you can't be a Christian if
you don't believe in the Bible. Well, I deal with that in my book and a footnote actually.
I actually am dealing, sorry, now I'm taking your time. But, you know, people tend to think that
the book of Revelation, that it, it, everybody seems to think that it's predicting our future.
Fundamentalists think it's predicting, predicting it correctly, and they know when it's going to
happen or it's going to happen soon. But even the person on the street, the woman on the street,
you ask her what revelations about, she says, well, it's predicting our future. Even though
she's like, you know, she's Jewish or something. I don't know. She's like, everybody thinks about
the book of Revelation that's predicting our future. And that, that view is modern. That view,
the reason everybody has that view is because fundamentalists won on that point. Fundamentalists
convinced everyone that Revelation is talking about our future, even though that was not the view
of the church for, you know, 1800 years. And so, but fundamentalists have now convinced everybody
that that's what it's about. They're wrong about that. But the other thing they've convinced
people about is they've convinced everybody that if you don't believe in the Bible, you can't be a
Christian. That is just stupid. I mean, it's not even like bad theology. It's just stupid. I mean,
how can you possibly say that you have to believe in the Bible to be a Christian? What about the
people who were Christian before there was a Bible? You know, you don't have our New Testament
formulated, kind of finalized until what, the 4th, 5th century? And so, like everybody before that
wasn't a Christian because they didn't believe in the Bible. And you mean, and so, and where does
Jesus go around saying that, you know, if you want eternal life, believe in the Bible. You don't
find that anywhere in the Bible. And look at the Nicene Creed, the creed that formed the basis
of Christian faith for centuries and centuries. We believe in God Almighty, God the Father Almighty,
maker of heaven and earth. And you know, it goes on and gives the things you have to believe to be
a faithful Christian. It doesn't mention the Bible. And so, why do you think believing the Bible is
it? Because the fundamentalists told you that. The fundamentalists said, if you don't believe in
the Bible, you can't be a Christian. And everybody said, Oh, really? Oh, God, I guess I'm not a
Christian then because I believe in evolution. Oh, you know, but liberal Christians like smart
theologians are saying, What are you talking about? Believing the Bible is not what Christianity is.
Christianity is about believing in Jesus. In some way, it's not about believing the Bible.
And so, but anyway, especially here in the South, you know, people just say, Well, you know, you
can't be a Christian if you don't believe in the Bible. Where are you getting this from? Sorry,
that was my little soapbox. I loved it. That was such a good soapbox. You know,
Bart, me and you, we know that there's a rapture happening sometime soon. So we want people to
make sure they sign up for this lecture because if they don't go, what will happen to them is going
to be. They'll be left behind. And you know what happens to people who get left behind?
Very bad. Very, very bad. So you don't want to be left behind.
You really don't, Bart. I'm excited about this lecture. I always enjoy learning from you,
all of your courses. Of course, they can go to your website and check them out.
This one is going to be amazing. It's going to be live. We can go check it out.
Thank you for giving us your time today and teaching us a little bit about revelation.
We've got a real deep sneak peek. Get the book, sign up for the course. Any final words from you?
No, but except also go to my blog, the Bart Irmond blog. I talk about this stuff all the time,
five times a week, every blog post going back 10 years, and I raise money doing it for charity.
So why not? Thank you, Bart.
