Dr. Richard Carrier, I have a question from a Patreon fan, he's a fan of yours and mine,
Joel Pearson.
Yeah.
I often hear the apologetic argument that Jesus can't be compared to all the other
demigods because the length of time between his supposed place in history and the first
historical narratives is shorter than we have records of for older figures like that.
What is the best response to this?
Is it just a fallacious argument, personal incredulity, cherry picking, non sequitur,
or is there some validity to this reasoning?
Right.
I have a whole section answering this, right, in On the Historicity of Jesus about rapid
legendary development as an objection, so I have a whole section answering this.
So any answer I give right now is really just summarizing what's there with examples
and so forth.
There are multiple problems with the argument.
One is we actually don't know that it's true.
So just because, you know, say like we don't know when the myths of let's say Hercules
or Bacchus and so forth started, right, like we have much later documents that long post
date when how these religions and these myths were circulating.
So we actually don't know how soon like within the times that they were set that these stories
were built.
However, that's a weak objection because I think it doesn't matter.
The length of time is irrelevant.
Generally what we see myths like this, about 40 years is a typical time for a total myth
like this to arise, and I give multiple real world examples in there.
So we've got the Roswell myth as a classical case, the John From myth where you get the
invention of John From, Ned Ludd is another case.
In all of these cases, they all get invented in roughly the same timeline as Jesus.
And I think that has a lot to do with the fact that the rate at which people naturally
die, right?
So in all of these things tended to happen before we had long lifespans like we have
now.
People did have long lifespans back then, but much more rarely.
So the average life expectancy was roughly 48 if you survive childhood.
So that means half of adults are dead before they're 50.
So this radically radically changes how much access to past memory that you are going to
have.
And then you add in the fact that people aren't critical thinkers, they aren't educated,
they, you know, there's no newspapers to write full through, right?
So the invention of legends is actually quite easy.
It's actually easier in first century Judea, first century Roman Empire than in the 20th
century when we have John From or 18th century when we have Ned Ludd.
Those are errors in which we have newspapers and have widespread literacy and stuff like
that.
So maybe it can happen within a 40 year span and that's roughly the timeline we're looking
at for Jesus doesn't really, so that tells us that it can happen.
So we really can't say that it's improbable.
I think what is more important is the decision as to where to put beings in history.
So you have Jesus, for example, is actually put in two different periods of history.
There's actually the Eastern chronology puts him at 70 BC is when he dies.
Western chronology is the one we're more familiar with, which is under Pontius Pilate,
right?
So they're about 100 years apart.
When you look at a lot of the other heroes, they're put close to or in the vicinity of
the Trojan War or what was believed to be the date of the Trojan War because that was
politically relevant.
Romulus is put at the believed date of the origin of Rome because that's politically
relevant.
So it's not really so much the length of time that's the issue, right?
Like it can be a long time, it can be hundreds of years or it can be 40 years.
The decision isn't really based on how much time you have to wait for it to be possible.
The decision of what time to put someone in has to do with the politics of what story
you want to tell about them.
Where is it important to put them?
And so it's usually at the origin of whatever they represent.
So if the religion began in the 30s AD and there's evidence to suggest that it did, even
if Jesus didn't exist, for example, there's evidence that it began in the 30s AD.
Now maybe it began 100 years earlier, I don't know, but the preponderance of evidence suggests
30s AD.
So that's where you're going to put Jesus, right?
You're going to put him there.
So really the only challenge there is would you get away with it?
And in other words, because it's the recents of time, the only remaining argument is could
you get away with it because of the recency of the time.
And the analogy that I put in Jesus from outer space, which is my latest book and it comes
from an article on my blog, but it's in Jesus from outer space, is let's forget about historicity
for a minute.
Let's just talk about physical resurrection of Jesus.
It's absolutely clear that in Paul's day, and I'm talking the 50s, that Jesus was never
met physically resurrected.
They were encountered in hallucinations and dreams that they themselves regarded as revelations.
They did not touch the hands of Jesus and have dinner with him.
Like that didn't even exist then.
And yet within 40 years time, less than 40 years time, 20 years time, Mark is talking
about an empty tomb.
Within 30 years time, Matthew is talking about Jesus showing up on a mountain in 40 years
time.
And they're touching his hands and having fish with him.
If that could happen to the dead Jesus, if you can invent an actual dead Jesus walking
around in that time, well, it's easier to invent the rest of Jesus.
So the timelines are actually the same in terms of this invention.
So it's very clear that you can invent whole people in a matter of 40 years, including
resurrected Jesus.
So if you can do it with a resurrected Jesus, you can do it with a historical Jesus.
And I make this point as well and on the history of Jesus, but I have a lengthier point
about it in Jesus from outer space.
It makes me think of something like if the Christian creed goes back to pretty dang close
that they believed he rose from the dead and you and me as naturalists, honestly, don't
buy that this happened.
There needs to be a, if we take the historical Jesus model, right, and we just forget the
myth that this is one for a second here, we would still go, OK, hold on.
Like if the body was missing, they still believed he was resurrected or if the body was still
there.
And let's just imagine that someone believed he rose from within 40 years.
You've got, you know, got a month of fish dinners with Jesus, right?
And with the dead Jesus, right?
So like the, the, the rapidity with which ridiculous factual history gets invented is
obvious and demonstrable.
So the one argument left is that there's not enough time is false.
So once you get rid of that, there's no like reference class argument to say that, oh,
typically they waited hundreds of years is that, that isn't really the causal factor.
The causal factor is how are they deciding where to place them?
And it's, it's always a politically meaningful place where they put them.
So the length of time is irrelevant.
It has more to do with why they're putting them there and rather than some other time.
And so once, once you understand that, that this doesn't become an argument against anything
really, it's no more an argument for the historical Jesus than it's an argument for an actual
historical physical resurrection of Jesus, you know, the fish dinner Jesus.
So, so it's the same, the same reason you would reject that is the same reason you would
reject this, that argument for the historical Jesus.
There are some who even posit like the destruction of the Jerusalem temple being a political
thing that is obviously having a replacement religion.
Yeah.
And you can do like there's the argument of the 40 year clock, right?
So, yeah.
So there's, there's like numerological reasons to put Jesus in the 30s AD.
And I talk about that too, actually in chapter eight, the first thing I talk about in chapter
eight of on in on the history of Jesus is where they put him historically.
And sometimes they put him in the 50s AD.
Sometimes they put him in the 30s.
Sometimes they put him in the 70s BC.
And some of this looks like numerological logic rather than anything else.
So there's a lot of different reasons why they could put Jesus in different places.
And they actually did put Jesus in multiple different periods.
So it has more to do has more to do with their thinking as to why he needs to be there.
Rather than how much time has to pass is the key point.
Appreciate that.
Thank you.
