And Jesus said, I came only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Are Jews and Israel synonymous terms in the first century? I'm privileged to discuss this
with Paula Fredrickson today. Thank you to those who made this trip possible. I hope everybody enjoys.
Dr. Fredrickson, Paula. In the first century, is it fair to say the terms
Jews was used synonymously with the term Israelites or Israel. When New Testament
authors refer to the house of Israel or the 12 tribes, are they implying the lost northern tribes
have somehow been restored? What does Matthew's Jesus mean by the lost sheep of the house of Israel?
I think it's interesting. He says, don't go to the way of the sin. Don't enter any city in this
Samaritans and don't go in the way of the Gentiles, rather go only to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel. House of Israel? I've heard that word before. Does that mean that means only go to
the northern kingdom? Or obviously not. But can you take us through some of these terms and what's
going on by the first century? The northern kingdom disappeared in minus 722. The Assyrians were in
the neighborhood. By the time we're dealing with the first century, I mean that population has gotten
blended. When people say Israel, Paul uses, am I not an Israelite? He refers to himself that way.
Does that mean that he's a Northerner? It means that he's a Jew. The term Israel has this biblical
resonance that the word Eudaios doesn't. I think the terms are synonymous and I think that he
distinguishes between ethne and Israel because he does so explicitly in Romans 11, 25, and 26.
The fullness of the ethne and all Israel, two separate groups. At the end of Galatians,
it's he calls peace upon the assembly, the Christ assembly, and upon the Israel of God,
which is he's distinguishing those two groups against. He's talking about the Jewish movement,
or at least a part of the Jewish movement that agrees with Paul. Although he refers to even
his opponents as Israelites. Are they Israelites? So am I, 2 Corinthians 11. He's using Israel as
a synonym for Jew, which is how it would be used. It's because it has biblical panache
that Paul grabs onto it. He's strutting his stuff in the letters and backlighting himself
with the whole drama of redemption. That's the way he's recast the Jewish Bible.
When I read Acts 13, I know this isn't Paul. This is whoever the author of Luke Acts is.
Probably early second century material. I'm convinced. I like Pervo and then of course
Shelly Matthews. I'm interviewing her soon. She's awesome. I want to talk to her about it and get
into this. I read that in Acts 13, 16 is the verse and then 26, where it says, Paul stood up
and with his hands motioned and said, Men of Israel and you God fears, listen, or hearken to me,
depending on the translation. And then the next one says, sons of Abraham's family and those among
you who fear God, like two totally separate groups in Acts. And it's interesting you brought up the
all Israel and the multitude of nations at the end Romans 11. I never thought that those were two
groups. I never came to think of it that way that this is multitude of nations, ethnic and Israel,
two separate groups here. Right. And it's quite specific if you're dealing with biblical tropes,
because the table of nations has 70 people groups. And then Abraham's family hives off of
one of those, the Semitic group. Right. So it's conceived of as two separate groups.
And you know, you have a Samaritan inscription from Delos that describes itself as Israel that
gives its first fruits to Mount Gerizim. So the Samaritans are talking about themselves as Israel
too. It's a very rubbery term. Do you think there's a jab in Matthew, where we were just
bringing up, don't go into any city of the Samaritans, don't go in the way of the Gentiles,
rather go only to the lawsuit, but that's visual. Obviously, somebody Jewish or more
on the side of Jews would have said this. Well, he's, well, that's a story ends with
go and make disciples of all ethnic. Right. So it's what he's doing is doing a two-stage model
of first two Jews, which is quite specifically the people in the Galilee and Judea and Matthew's
story. And that's where the Jews are. I just think that by the fact that he's saying,
only go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, Samaritans aren't counted in that,
according to this author. Well, no, the Samaritans think they are. Right. The Jews think they're
not. Right. So it's been as usual. You know, the Hasmoneans weren't good to the Samaritans.
They didn't like the competition of the temple on Mount Garazim with the temple
in Jerusalem. I mean, it's business as usual. It's identity politics and the type of
vocabulary that's used to articulate that. Well, we'll put, we'll put. Okay. Let's get into maybe
a couple of examples here and get your thoughts. Matthew 15, 21 through 26, 10, 5 through 6,
where it's that whole, I came only for the lost sheep. And going off from there, Jesus went up to
the regions of Tyre and Sidon. And behold, a Canaanite woman from the area came and cried and
sang, Have mercy on me, Lord, son of David. My daughter is badly demon possessed. But he did not
answer her a word. Then the disciples came and begged him, send her away because she keeps on
crying out after us. So he answered saying, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
But she came and bowed before him and said, Lord, help me. But he answered saying,
it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. And of course,
even the dogs get the crumbs off the table. But I came only for the lost sheep of the house of
Israel. Do you think that this is in the words of Jesus, that Jesus came for the Jews first?
I think he only came to the Jews. That was the neighborhood. That was his beat.
He goes back and forth according to the, I think the itinerary in John is more plausible. I'm not
saying it's exact and historical, but it's more plausible that Jesus, if he wants to
deal with as many Jews as possible, will go up to Jerusalem and teach during the high holidays.
So this passage in Matthew, notice what Matthew's doing with his vocabulary. He's changing
Mark, where it's a syrophoenician woman, which is exactly what you'd expect in the
neighborhood of Tyre. And he's backlit it with the biblical story. There are no Canaanites
in the first century, but by having her be a Canaanite, he's dragging Hebrew scripture
into this, into this story. And Jesus is saying, I'm not supposed to talk to Canaanites. Good grief.
I'm going to, to Jews. I'm going to Jews. Great point. Yeah. It's a great point to bring up.
He goes on in these, the 12, Jesus sent out instructing them saying,
do not go in the way of the nations, Gentiles, and to a city of the Samaritans, do not
go in, go instead to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. So these would be the Jews.
I think so. And that's the movement launches from Jerusalem. And I think it begins to spread
out through the network of synagogue communities. So they are, they go to Israel and the diaspora
once they've been to Israel back home. And it's only once they get to the diaspora and the diaspora
demographically in terms of different people groups and different gods happens already on the
rim of Judea, right? Because the Romans are in Caesarea. Herod built a temple to Augustus in
Caesarea and also two more. I mean, there's, so the, the diaspora as a place of non-Jewer settlement
is already in Judea. And it's there that the apostles begin to encounter this both and model
of pagans who are hanging around in the synagogue as well. Wow. Yeah. It's really interesting.
Um, like Cornelius, the right, right. If he's built the synagogue, why shouldn't he be hanging
around? Yeah, I don't think they'd have a problem with that at all. But as far as the notion of
Israel and its understanding to be Jews synonymously, it's fair to say that this is probably across
the board understood. And I just want to like get your thoughts. I interviewed Andrew Tobolowski.
He wrote a book on the myth of the 12 tribes of Israel recently and
Judah kind of, according to him and his investigation, Judah kind of puts themselves
into the narrative of Israel. In fact, initially Judah wasn't even, maybe even, unless you buy the
two kingdoms were really united at one point and they may have been, but maybe for a short period,
he said, it might have been short lived, that they kind of place themselves into the genealogical
narrative. That's how, that's how stories and myths of origins work. You insert yourself,
you insert yourself into the narrative. I mean, that's what Islam does with,
with biblical religion, Western biblical religions, right? They, they become descendants of Ishmael.
Right. So that you insert yourself into the genealogy.
And I just figured that they may have, once all that's gone and the Northern Kingdom's gone,
they capitalize on the narrative of Israel, but also take upon themselves the, the claim
to being called Israel. Well, I think they're, I, I think they, Israel is the umbrella term.
It's a B'nai Israel and the Hebrew Bible. Right. And, and I think that it's, it's really not a
stretch to consider that. Now, the being, what does it mean to be a Jew is then again, a whole
argument. You know, well, if, if you do this, but you don't do that, are you really, are you a good
Jew or you're a naughty Jew, but you're still a Jew. So there are, there is, it's, when we say
Jews, we're not dealing with a, Jews are no more on the same page in antiquity than they are now.
There's tremendous variety of Jewishness. But I think Israel is a capstone word because it's,
it's biblically brooded. Thank you. Thank you to those who contributed in the GoFundMe on making
this trip possible for these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson. I want to give a special
shout out to you. Your names are chiseled in history. I also want to thank everybody who has
become a patron of MythVision making stuff like this possible, taking academic work that is hiding
behind all of these scholarships, all of these colleges and making it public, public knowledge
for everybody to learn.
