Without a doubt, Christian apologists are long. I can't emphasize this enough. And it's not just
Christian apologists. There is this apologetic, even within scholarship, that keeps going,
that Jesus' birth, you know, that virgin birth by Mary, where the Pneuma overshadows her and she
has Jesus, is unique. And there are no other non-sexual union birth conceptions where the
God conceives a child through a mortal woman without sex, other than Jesus. This is not true.
Share this with anyone who denies it, because the evidence, they just haven't seen it yet.
But Dr. M. David Litwa, he has dug deep into this. Every serious academic that I speak to goes,
his work is mind-blowing. Be sure to go check out his stuff, go in the description,
share this with the next fundamentalist or atheist that says otherwise.
Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about divine births. Maybe some of these might be virgins,
or we're going to address this issue today with Dr. M. David Litwa. He's got a YouTube channel,
he's got a Patreon. Go down in the description now. Maybe your children will be conceived of a
God if you do so. Go help him out. Dr. Litwa, welcome back to MythVision. Hi, Derek. Yeah,
great to be here. Happy holidays to you and everybody. It's good to be back. I'm really
thankful you're back. You're going to be able to educate us today, and diving into my favorite
book that you produced. And it's, I mean, it's up there. Like, it competes with, you know,
the evil creator and some other stuff that I really enjoy, just understanding Jesus in
a Mediterranean world. Jesus stays, it's got a lot of praise among many other scholars as well.
Today, I'll be looking at whether you need to have sex between divine beings and human women
in order to produce a divine conception. Because today, when people think of this on a popular
level, they kind of have these binary categories set for them. So if they know a little bit about
Greek mythology, they kind of imagine that Zeus and Apollo were really, really horny
back in the day, and they would repeatedly have sex with human women. And that would produce
the race of demigods and who are the heroes of Hesiod's age of heroes. And that's how we got
Heracles and Romulus and Asclepius and so many others. It's that you had a sex act between
God and a mortal woman, although sometimes it could be the reverse, of course, Aphrodite,
having sex with whoever she wanted to. I mean, she had her own escapades as well.
So there's this idea that that's sort of what the Greek religion was about in the time of Jesus.
And then the Jewish religion, where God was, or Yahweh, was basically an asexual being.
And he didn't hang around women. And he didn't even like women, didn't even allow menstruating
women to go into the temple. And he was really kind of prudish. And the Jews just didn't imagine
their deity having sex or being involved with sex and sexual activity. So it was a completely
different worldview. Now, all this entire binary is based on an apologetic framework. And this is
really one I want to emphasize here, folks, that this is exactly the argument that Justin Martyr
made around the year 150 in trying to argue for the truth of Christianity. And this very
contingent apologetic argument has unfortunately passed, has become so hackneyed and repeated so
much that it has passed for historical fact. And that's just not the case. And it's really
important to see that our job as thinking people and as historians or budding historians is not
simply to repeat the apologetic arguments of ancient Christians as if they were fact, okay.
Because and to not let one particular religion or insider discourse control the terms and the
framework of thinking, but to step outside of the box, start afresh and think anew. Okay,
I know many of you, you may have taken a course in classical mythology and or you may have a book
in classical mythology and, you know, think that this is all very obvious. But in the time of Jesus,
these Greeks and Romans were as sophisticated as you or me and how they thought about
divine conception. And for different reasons, okay, they had issues with God's having sex. Okay.
Now again, if you're reading Homer, you know, Homer is archaic age. Okay, so it doesn't seem to have
a problem with God's having sex at all. Okay, agreed. But the New Testament wasn't written
when Homer or whoever was writing. It wasn't written when he said was writing. It was written
600 years after that, after the development of some of the most complex philosophies and scientific
arguments this world has ever seen. Okay, the New Testament is post Plato. And with Plato,
he revolutionizes everything. Typically elite educated and intellectual Greeks of the time
of Jesus and of the time of the New Testament writers, which is the late first and early second
century, they do not believe, literally, that God's have sex with mortals. Because that's just
not what God's do. Okay, if I may just to poke in here, this is great because I asked a question.
I'm giving people behind a paywall a little sneak peek. A recent course was done on other
virgin births, supposed other virgin births. And Dr. Bart Ehrman, who was your professor at one point,
took the stance that these gods, they had sex or in some way, they end up impregnating
these women. Even the interpretation, let's say in Suetonius, which I think we might mention
with Augustus, and there's a serpent there that is in the bed with his mother. With Augustus'
mother, I can't remember her name, but she ends up going and bathing. And then nine months later,
there you have the baby. And therefore, this is somehow a sexual union. But I asked him a question,
particularly in what you said. And I said, have there been any other gods who have impregnated
women through the panuma? And I use that specific term. And he knew that was a catchy term, even
emphasized it when you're saying it. He said no. And I'm not trying to be pitting scholars against
each other. But, you know, sometimes I'll catch Dr. Ehrman where I'll say, Hey, do you date Luke
in the second century? And he's like, ah, 85. And I'm like, hold on, Steve Mason,
Steve Mason, Litwa, Shelley Matthews, like all of these scholars are late, you know,
definitely late first or at least early second, maybe even the mid-second. He's still on the 85 AD.
So we want to give him a little credit here, but it sounds like he's kind of
holding on to maybe some dated ideas. Yeah. Well, yeah. He's very traditional in some respects,
his reputation. Yep. It is true that historians, even around the time of the late first century,
like Plutarch, is a great example. He will tell you the story of how Alexander the Great
was conceived by means, supposedly, of a gigantic snake appearing in the bed of Alexander's mother
Olympus. But Plutarch will also tell you in his life of Alexandria that he doesn't believe that
story. And he doesn't believe that story because that's just not what gods do.
And ever since the days of Plato, there were certain rules of theology.
And this is in Plato's Republic. Plato's first rule of theology is a god does not lie.
And a god, second, which is more of an expanded version of the first, a god does not change.
And it's these two rules of theology that revolutionized all later theology, including
Christian theology. It was not acceptable for a god to lie or be involved in a lying action,
that is to take on the body and pretend to be someone else. For instance, in the story of
Heracles' birth, Zeus takes on the body of Heracles' human father, Amphitrion. Plato says,
no, he didn't. Or if he did, that's not Zeus, right? Because that's not what gods do. Gods do not
deceive, and they do not change. And why is it that gods do not change? It's because gods are
already perfect. Gods do not need anything. They're not deficient in any respect. Sex
is the expression of human needs. And I'm well aware that there are some asexual people. Okay,
that's totally fine. But for a large proportion of humanity, sex is a biological need. It's
hormone driven. And because it's a need, it's an expression of our own deficiency.
We're not complete without a partner, without a sexual partner. We don't live
the full flourishing life. We are incomplete without that. That is a manifestation of human
weakness. Gods do not have that. Gods are not deficient, and then they do not change, and they
don't have hormonal fluctuations, and they do not get horny, right? So this is Plato, okay?
Sex involves the greatest amount of changes emotionally and bodily, and that is unacceptable,
according to the Platonic rules of theology. And anyone who is intellectual in the Roman period
knows this, okay? So yes, historians can still, you know, tell, like Suetonius, these mythological
tales. But do they, in their mode as philosophers, actually believe that, first of all, women have
sex with snakes and temples? Or wherever? No. And this is a case where we ask that great
question, did the Greeks believe in their myths? Well, yes and no. They wanted to protect their
sacred cultural lore, but just like Christians today, they reinterpret it so that it's updated to
the scientific and moral standards at the time. So they do not believe that gods have sex. And the
key example of this is Plutarch in talking about the divine conception of Plato, okay? Plato is,
or was, a human being, and he did not need to have, or his mother, did not have sex
with any god in order to produce Plato. His mother was Pariktioni. And it was very early tradition
brought out by Plato's own nephew shortly after he died. So we're talking about the mid-fourth
century, so 450 years before Jesus. There was a tradition that Plato was the offspring of Apollo.
And during the time when the author of Luke was writing, which is, I think,
in the first edition, the very late first century, you had Plutarch, who's writing it
exactly the same time, telling us how he thinks that Plato was born from Apollo. Because he
wants to save the myth, right? It's his myth. He wants to save the fact that Plato is divinely
conceived. But he cannot accept as an intellectual and as a thinker of his time, late first, early
second century, that that's how gods operate. So in his table talk, and in his life of Numa, he
presents a theory that there is no vaginal penetration of Pariktioni by Apollo. That
wouldn't be how Apollo works. There is a more subtle way of conceiving. And the Greeks weren't
stupid. They observed things, and they observed what they thought were, they weren't divine
conceptions, but what they called wind eggs. And wind eggs were eggs that produced chicks
without any male rooster being involved. And they get the name wind eggs, which sounds rather
simple or silly, but basically, the way that the Greeks thought that this happened was
that these eggs were fertilized by Panuma, which is wind. But in the New Testament, it's also
translated spirit. It also means breath. It's hot air that you breathe out. And it's very subtle.
And according to Aristotle, it is that thing which is in male semen,
which fertilizes the female egg inside the womb. So Panuma is the natural choice,
you know, based on the scientific literature of the day, to talk about how a woman gets pregnant.
And if a god is going to impregnate a woman, he need not. In fact, morally, he cannot impersonate a man
with a penis. That's unnecessary. And gods wouldn't be involved in that. They have no
interest in that. They have no need for that. That's not what gods do. But it's still possible for them
to breathe. And they breathe in an efflux of their own divine seed. And it enters the woman's body
and makes her pregnant. To illustrate how concretely Christians thought about this,
there's the later Christian tradition that Mary conceived through her ear,
which means that divine Panuma entered through an orifice.
Because it has to go through somewhere. And so the theory was that it went through Mary's
ear. Why her ear? Well, because she was so obedient. And if you look at the root of obedience,
it's from audio, ab audio, and audio has to do with hearing, hence the ear. She's so obedient,
she receives the spirit through the ear. And that is what makes her pregnant, because the
Panuma has to travel through her ear down to the uterus. That's how concretely they thought about
this. This wasn't some magical event. They actually did think about, you know, the actual
connection of cause and effect. Okay, they didn't think that God snapped his fingers,
and all of a sudden Mary was pregnant. No, you needed some biological material agent.
And the natural solution was Panuma. So this is what Plutarch says, that Periktyoni,
Plato's mother, gave birth through another kind of divine power, which is Denimus and Panuma.
And I have the text cited in chapter one of Jesus Deus. I've also got on my YouTube channel
an episode on chapter one. So you can check out the footnotes there and read up on Plutarch.
What's interesting is when you look up Luke 135, we have in the Greek the exact same words used by
Plutarch, in reference to the pregnancy of Plato, used now for the pregnancy, for the divine conception
of Jesus. Luke says in the Greek, and I'll translate, Panuma hagyan epel yuseta episè,
which means a holy breath, as I like to say, a holy breath
will come upon you. This is the angel speaking to Mary for how she gets pregnant.
Cadenimus hepsistu episcesi, and power of a most high, will overshadow you.
So he uses those exact same two terms that Plutarch uses in the exact similar context when talking about
how a god impregnates a woman. Panuma and Denimus. And so what this shows us is that the author of
Luke is probably at least trying to sound as sophisticated as Plutarch, who is our representative
Greek intellectual of the late first and early second century. And Luke, whoever Luke is, I'm
just using that as a placeholder, the author of Luke, let's say, knows that if he were to tell a
story about God impregnating Mary by taking on the form of Joseph,
well, that's not going to fly. That's not going to work. I mean, no Greek intellectual would touch
that stuff. But if there was a more subtle theory of divine conception, which involved these quasi
scientific terms, Pneuma and Denimus, well, then we're talking. That's the point where the author
of Luke tries to get a foothold into the structures of plausibility for the Greek intellectuals of
this time. Because he's already an apologist, okay, he already knows that no one is going to believe
a story of God having sex with a mortal woman. Okay, he's looking over his shoulder at people
like Plutarch, who would sneer at that kind of thing. So he's smart enough to say that this divine
conception happened through the mechanics of Pneuma and Denimus, just as Plato's own divine
conception happened. So it ends up that both Plutarch and the author of Luke can have their
cake and eat it too, right? Because Plutarch can say, yes, I revere Plato. I call Plato Theos
Plato, the divine Plato. Why do I do that? Because he is the true son of Apollo. He can still affirm
that, right? And Apollo is the God of music and the God of harmony. So yes, those are Plato's
characteristics. And the author of Luke can say, guess what? Jesus is the true son of a God,
in this case, Yahweh. And Yahweh doesn't need to get his hands dirty. And Yahweh doesn't need a penis
to do any of these things. Yahweh can act just like Plutarch's Apollo and send his own breath to
impregnate Mary. So this completes Luke 135, just to translate it. So the Greek is
And because of this, the divine mechanics of non-sexual conception, what is born will be called
sacred, a son of a God. That's the literal translation of the Greek. And this shows once
and for all that, for intellectuals at least, and the author of Luke is trying to pose as an
intellectual, you don't need to have sexual intercourse to produce a divine conception. Greeks
don't need it, and Christians don't need it. So yes, even though it's true that in Homer,
gods have sex, and in historians, gods have sex, apparently, by the time of the late
1st and early 2nd century, they aren't believing it. This were long beyond the age when Yahweh had a
wife. I mean, he did have a wife at some point. But the Jews had ceased to believe that for maybe
half millennium before Christianity came on the scene. So when you're looking at the development
of religions, and we were to take a time machine and go back to the 8th century BC, and if we had
archaic Hebrew, we would ask, does Yahweh have a wife? And can he have kids? Can he have sex?
Because L gives birth to Baal, right? The Phoenicians say that. So does Yahweh give birth
to somebody? Or does somebody give birth to Yahweh? And I think they'd say, well, yeah,
well, because Yahweh's got a wife, just like Baal has a wife. I mean, this is not a problem.
Theologically, it's not a problem. But then you fast forward 500 years, and all of a sudden,
it becomes a big problem for different reasons. But both Jews and Greeks and
Jews who were also Christians were becoming sophisticated enough by the era of the New
Testament to say that, no, we don't have gods who have sex. We have divine conception.
But there's nothing to do with penetration. So this shows you, this shows everyone that
Justin's argument in the first apology, again, written around 150, is somewhat
double dealing, let's say, and not entirely accurate. Because what Justin says is that
Greeks and Romans, they really do believe that Zeus dresses up as somebody else and
has sex with a mortal woman, whereas the Christians, they're too good to believe that.
Well, Plutarch shows that that argument falls flat. Greeks and Romans who are sophisticated
intellectually do not believe that, did not believe that, and neither did the Christians.
They're exactly equal. And so we need to lay down forever that apologetic framework and argument.
There's so many things here, Dr. Litwa. You said some great stuff. So I have a question. We'll
start like a few questions at a time as we go into this, because I'm sure you'll have plenty to cover.
Are there any examples that could be given about gods having sex with women
after Plato? Is the tradition, is it like a dual tradition? Or would you say, like you said,
it's pretty much stamped out, at least you'd say within the first few generations after Plato?
Would you say it's completely stamped out? No, it's not stamped out. No, not at all, because
it's intellectuals who are pushing this line. And other writers don't care too much about it.
And it's also a question of genre. In the historical genre, like what Suetonius is writing,
in that genre, he can say, oh, yeah, I mean, there's this story that, yeah, Augustus' mother
was in a temple at night and had sex with a snake, and there you go. He's just reporting a story.
He's not telling you that he believes it. If he was in private conversation with Tacitus,
he'd be like, this is garbage, but I'm going to report it because this will sell books.
So, you know, this is exactly how they are, how they're thinking. And then when Plutarch is,
you can see this dynamic in Plutarch. Plutarch writes a biography of Alexander in which he talks,
in which he's under obligation to tell you the common story that his mother had sex with a snake.
Okay. But he then says, you know, this is the story. He's like Herodotus. He says,
this is the story. I have no part in this. But then when he's in the scientific mode and in the
scientific treatise, speaking simply as a philosopher, not as a biographer, he will say,
no, no, we don't believe this. No intellectual would believe this. We uphold the tradition
that Plato is born of Apollo. Yes. But we do not believe that Apollo has sex with a mortal woman.
That's just not true. So this, at least this grants us that the author of the gospel we call Luke
is within the elite kind of, maybe the elite isn't the term, but the highly sophisticated
thinkers. Because I don't want to give the idea that necessarily they're rich. I mean,
there's some poor people who become sophisticated philosophers later on, high intellectuals. So,
they're highly intellectual. Can we grant Matthew in this same category? Well, so the way I would
put it is these authors are trying to sound like they're elite intellectuals. Whether we want to
call them elite intellectuals is another story. But they know at least the modes and codes of how
to be most plausible, right? And so, yes, the author of Luke is of the highest register. He's the one
coming closest to Plutarch. Matthew is, shows a lot less concern. Matthew is not as interested in
the actual mechanics of the divine conception. I think Matthew would deny that, you know, obviously
God had sex. And I think other readers of Matthew, you know, that would be,
yeah, Greek readers contemporary with Matthew, you know, they would not be cool with that either.
But I don't think Matthew is interested in the mechanics of the sex. And he's happy to tell
what is essentially Christian mythology. And just kind of let that sit with you. You know,
so he's got, you know, the escape to Egypt and the massacre of the children probably never
happened. All these angels appearing in dreams. I mean, Greek, Greek historians who are trying to
go up to the level of Thucydides would be like, no, no, this is trash literature. This is not,
this is not good enough. This doesn't come up to snuff. But if you're just have the standard of
Herodotus, right? Because Herodotus is the father of history. And he tells, you know, more myths
than Matthew. So, but Herodotus always says, I'm just reporting this folks. I don't actually
believe this. But I'm going to tell you the story. And Matthew is not that sophisticated. He, he,
he tells the story as if he believes it. And he probably does. So he's not quite at the author
of Luke's level. And I don't think either of them are at the level of Thucydides or of Tacitus.
But they're, they're pushing upward. They're going upward. And they're trying to sound plausible
as they can. So it is fair to say, when we hear, and I'm using anti apologetics here for a second,
which I know you don't care to get into the mix, but it is an interesting question. Christian
apologists will go around and say, this is unique. In fact, Bart Ehrman himself at least grants that
in this case, Jesus being born through a nonsexual union of a virgin at that, which we haven't got
to the question of virgin yet, is wholly unique. And we got to give that to Christianity. And
where I would agree with Bart and go at least every single one of these myths is unique in a
sense. Every one of them, if you go to Zeus, you go to Hercules, you go to Plato, you go to,
they all have different narratives, different gods, different stories about maybe how things go.
So if you want to be literal, sure, they're unique. But to argue that this one isn't within a zeitgeist
of thought, that it's somehow completely unique, as Christian apologists do, that would be a
false statement. Would you agree? Or at least a mistaken statement? Yeah, you haven't read widely
enough. Or you've just read in one genre. You've just read in the historian genre, rather than the
genre of scientific literature. So you pick up Plutarch's table talk, or you pick up Aristotle's
discussion of how you can have Hens giving birth to chicks without roosters. And they're talking
on a different register and a different level. And they're happy to talk about things as intellectuals,
not just reporting the common story. So the case of Apollonius of Tiana is an interesting one,
and I'll just say a little bit about this while I have time. So I think Bart and I differ on reading
the Apollonius of Tiana, because this is a third century. Okay, so it's post-Christian, it's
Philostratus. And Philostratus tells the story about how Apollonius' mother gave birth. And
he, it's quite a funny story, I think, but he says, and I'm not including all the details, but he says
that basically his mother fell asleep in a field of flowers, sort of like Persephone, and
that she was surrounded by these birds, basically. I think he calls them geese, but I'll have to
check that. And that in unison, these birds lift their wings and then beat them. And at that moment,
his mother wakes up and she's pregnant. So what are the assumptions of that story?
Well, I think this is another instance of a non-sexual conception. What happens when birds beat
their wings? Moving air, panuma. That's how the Greeks thought of it, panuma is moving air, moving
warm gust of air, enters the woman, that's how she gets pregnant. The mechanics are the same,
right? It's panuma. And who gets those birds together? Who fertilizes the wind? Well, in this
case, it's Proteus, the god Proteus, because Proteus is the real father of Apollonius. So here's another
case of a non-sexual birth, but it appears in history, and in my book, How the Gossels Became
History, I explain that there's a difference between ancient history and modern history,
but we're talking about ancient history. This appears in a book of ancient history. It looks
like a mythical tale. Greeks would call it a mythical tale, but it's still based on the
presuppositions of the day of how a woman could give birth non-sexually. It would happen through
panuma. Wow, okay. This is great. Now, question is, are there any virgins? And I asked this of Dr.
Ehrman, and I even went so far to say, does it even matter? I mean, at the end of the day,
it's the conception of the deity to having the child, I mean, through a mortal woman. Is virginity
a valuable thing in the world at this time, or is that a later anachronistic kind of development,
as we see eventually? Mary couldn't even have had sex with Joseph. We have to have her be a
perpetual virgin, and these ideas start to develop over time. I'm not sure how much time, but
virginity, can you touch this topic? Yeah, definitely. I don't have a lot of time,
but I'll try to give you as much background as I can. And this will take us all the way back
to Leviticus. Leviticus is everyone's favorite nighttime reading, and I'm sure all your viewers
read this every day. But there's all these rules about menstruating women, and they can't go into
the temple. And so there's something polluting about sex and childbirth that goes back way,
way back, way back. And then you have to ask, well, are the Greeks and the Jews, are they different
on this? Well, no, they're actually not, because if you go to the Greek ritual law codes,
they also say that, yeah, women who are menstruating or after childbirth, they have to wait 30 or 40
days before coming into the temple, the presence of the God. And if you've just had sex last night,
please don't go to the temple. Okay, so you have to wait a day at least. You have to abstain from
sex a day at least. And if you're really serious, like in the religion of ISIS, you're reading
Epileus and the medieval foresees, he can't appear before ISIS unless he's abstained from sex and
meet for at least 10 days. So the gods, both Jewish gods and Greek gods, they do care about sex
and impurity and blood and childbirth, and they don't like that stuff. And they haven't
liked that stuff for thousands of years. So there's a discourse of impurity when you're talking about
sex. Sex is ritually defiling. Okay, and Greeks and Jews hold that presupposition. Okay, long
before Plato did. Now, Plato adds an extra reason why gods don't have sex and why they don't like
sex. He tries to rationalize it and says, well, they don't lie and they don't change. So rationally,
we figured this out. But when you're just talking on the level of impurity, then yes, there's something
very, very primitive about this idea that sex is something that would make you impure. Therefore,
a god wouldn't be involved in that activity. And it would be defiling for a god to have sex
with a mortal woman. And it would also be defiling if a son of god was born from a mortal who had sex
with a man. That's just not how it works. So if you're going to have a true divine conception,
then yes, you need to get over this. You need to have a virgin,
which is just to say a woman who is pure, so that she gives birth to a pure child. And that's
exactly the language that Luke or the author of Luke uses, hagyan. He says, and because of these
divine mechanics, the child will be called hagyan, which means sacred. And why sacred? Because it's
pure. So he's involved in purity ideologies. And the best book that I can recommend for people
interested in ideologies of purity and impurity is Mary Douglas called Purity and Danger.
I think that's the title anyway, and we can correct that later. But this book
basically is an interpretation of Leviticus and shows you why ancient people were so concerned
about purity. Purity is different than cleanliness. It's related, they overlap, but it's different.
And with a god, if you're going to have any interaction with a god, you need to be pure.
So that's why the virgin birth becomes both a ritual and a rational necessity by the time of
the author of Luke. Wow. Okay, that makes a lot of sense of a lot of information.
It is Christmas time. And a lot of people right now are celebrating Christmas. They're looking at
this is the time which Jesus was born. And I figured this would be like a perfect episode to
give people who want to go deeper than maybe a surface level examination on the topic. Of
course, your book, Yesus Deus Goes Deeper, are you, is there anything in particular on your
Patreon that you're doing that might actually take people further that should join up or
anything else, maybe other classes, ideas, topics, things like that that you have exclusive over
there? Oh, definitely. Yeah, I have an article on divine births on the Patreon. Patrons get
book deals with me. And I also have a teach Greek over the Patreon for those getting introduced to
Greek, just want to deal with a little bit of Greek to eventually free themselves from English
of translations or mistranslations that are which are so frequent. And so, yeah, I mean,
I hope that, yeah, I can provide a service to anyone who wants to join and to get a little deeper.
And yeah, just get out of this, these apologetic frameworks, which unfortunately,
even scholars get trapped. And that's like quicksand. You're trained to think in a certain way,
and you never really get out of it. But we want to use the hammer and break the apologetical
framework so that we can think outside the box. I not only have found the method you're describing
here and what you're teaching more freeing from the apologetics world, of course, but also,
it has allowed me to view a lot of this stuff more artistically and actually value it as a human,
like, like divorce it from the dogma and the stigma that comes with it and see it and go,
wow, that's clever. That's an interesting story. How humans thought about that. I thought about
how pine trees and pollen, you know, passes in the wind and how it pollinates other trees. And
I thought about that with the the new ma of, you know, God, it just made me think, huh, nature itself
is a gift to humans. And we have tried to interpret the world through these
natural world natural observations, and then, you know, put it into this category of the gods and
stuff. So they might be more sophisticated than we give them credit for. Definitely. And, you know,
in the end, you know, everyone will have to decide on what myths they hold to be true. But
I think you've get to the point where you enjoy the myth as the myth. And then that frees you to
think about deeper levels of truth. So, yeah, we all eventually, I think we come back to our
tradition and we think think through how we may or may not be able to believe it. And that should
be a joyful journey. It shouldn't be a stressful one. We're worried about being, you know, poked
with a pitchfork by screaming devils, you know, in the afterlife. Life should be so much more
enjoyable than worrying about that. I agree. Are you working on any book right now before I let
you go? Is there any work any book that's coming out sometime in the next year or so? Well, I'm
working on three books, and I am not sure if any of them will come out. I'm hoping that I have a
book on Alexandria, earliest Christianity in Alexandria, which is a revisionist history of
that earliest place where we see early Christian diversity and the birth of Christian theology
in a way that isn't like the Roman form, which people are so used to. And, you know, we'll be
looking at people like Philo and Apollos and Barnabas, Facilities, Carpocrates, Prodacus,
Eugnosus, Julius Castianus, Valentinians, Appellis, and the Nassian preacher. And I'll be expanding
my reflection of the Nassians in a complete book, which I hope to make accessible to a popular
audience. And then I'm also seeing if I can finish up a book on Simon of Samaria. So there's a lot
coming down the pike, and yeah, very happy to help anyone in their journey as they work
wade through some of this material, some of this both hidden and unfortunately, yeah, unknown,
inaccessible material. Thank you so much, Dr. Litwa. Until next time. Sure thing. Happy holidays.
You as well.
