Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Elaine Pagels, Jesus turns to his disciples and he said, who do men say that
I am?
Who do men, if I could say it in modern terms, who does everyone think that I am?
Well, it differs in the different Gospels, Mark's Gospel as you know.
The disciples say, people say you're a prophet, or maybe Elijah, or maybe you're John the
Baptist or somebody like that, and you know Peter gets the right answer, you are the Messiah.
Now the Gospel of Thomas, the secret Gospel takes it further.
Peter in this says, well, you're like a righteous messenger, which means Messiah.
Matthew says, well you're like a wise teacher, which means a rabbi, and Jesus is called a
rabbi if you're reading Matthew in Greek in which, the language in which he wrote.
But then Thomas says, master, my mouth cannot even say who you are.
And then Jesus takes him off and speaks to him privately.
And the others say, what did he say?
And they say, he says, I can't.
If I told you what he said to me, you would pick up stones and throw them at me.
Now there are two things you could get stoned for, stoned to death.
One is for adultery, doesn't seem to be a case here.
The other is blasphemy.
And so presumably in the Gospel of Thomas, Jesus said something that the disciples would
think was shocking.
Later in the Gospel, Jesus says, I am the light that is before the universe.
I am all things, all things come from me, all things return to me.
Lift up a rock and you will find me.
Split a piece of wood and you'll find me there.
Now that's a very poetic statement, but it suggests that Jesus is speaking as the kind
of energy that brought forth the universe before there was a world.
Jesus speaks as the divine energy manifest in the world.
It's a very powerful picture.
And the only image you can use for God's energy in the world is light.
And so he speaks as this light, which is God's energy.
And later on, the Gospel of Thomas says, Jesus speaks to his disciples and says, whoever
accepts my teaching will become like me and I will become that person and the mysteries
will be revealed to him.
And that's based on the sense in the Gospel of Thomas that Jesus comes from the divine
light from which this amazing universe came forth.
And that you also come from that same source from which Jesus came, that everyone does.
Later in the Gospel of Thomas, Jesus says, you come from the divine source, you come
from the light.
You are also part of the same being that I am.
So the Gospel of Thomas teaches that Jesus comes from the divine source, but so do you.
You have within you the energy of the divine light because we're created in the image of
God.
So there's a teaching there about not only does Jesus come from the divine source, but
you and I and all beings come from that source.
And that can sound shocking because it makes us almost the same as Jesus, but that is what
the secret teaching suggests.
This is mystical teaching.
It's very similar to Jewish mystical teaching that everything in the universe comes from
God and returns to God and that all of us are part of that.
So it's quite different from the New Testament that says, Jesus comes from God and you don't,
I don't, we have to be saved first.
Well that's the basic teaching.
But the advanced level teaching says, yes, but after you understand that, you understand
that you and Jesus come from the same place.
And that's why the Gospel of Thomas speaks of Thomas as the twin.
His name means the twin, Thomas is a nickname and he's called the twin.
But here he's understood to be the twin of Jesus and he is the disciple who represents
you, the disciple, hearing and reading the story.
And you discover that you and Jesus on some level are twins spiritually speaking.
Now that's blasphemy from the point of view of orthodoxy.
You can't say you're like Jesus.
That is totally wrong, right?
But that is what the secret teachings suggest and that's why they're dangerous.
Because if you're immature and you have a swelled head, you can say, oh, okay, I'm God.
I can do anything.
You could take it in a very immature, you know, self-aggrandizing way.
That's why these are secret teachings.
They're not meant to just throw out to everybody because they can easily be misunderstood and
trivialized.
It also seems that the reason that it was such a problem is it's anti-authoritarian
because you are the authority.
There is no, in a sense, it seems like the Gnostics take that road and say, no, it almost
has a Pauline hint to it because Paul says, the super apostles, he kind of mocks them
in a way like...
Derek, that's exactly what the Gospel of Thomas teaches.
Jesus teaches Thomas, I'm not other than you.
You have to become like me.
You have to develop your spiritual awareness to the point where you can not just ask me
for the answers.
I am not your master, he says, because you have come, you drank from the same spring
that I drank from.
You have the same water of truth.
You have to find a spring of living water within yourself as the Gospel of John says.
So in the Gospel of Thomas, that's why Jesus doesn't answer your questions.
He says, figure it out, ask yourself, who do you think you are and that you need to
make those discoveries because you develop a sense of your spiritual capacity and with
humility.
Is it safe to say there is a progression of the identity of Christ in terms of the New
Testament?
Because this comes to dating on Thomas, it appears, there seems to be an evolution.
There are things Jesus does in Mark that seem demigod-like, like almost like, he's more
than human here, guys, but then when you get to John, he's Creator, he's through him, the
Logos that all things are created through him, it just seems like there's a progression
and Thomas gives the hint by saying you're also one in the same.
Yes, and the Gospel of John at the end, Jesus says, the Holy Spirit will lead you into all
truth.
That is, what you've heard so far is not all.
It's only part of it, it's only the beginning.
You will discover more and more.
The Gospel of Thomas says, yes, you need to discover more and more and go beyond the
initial teaching about Jesus, which isn't wrong.
It's just partial and you have to develop your understanding more and that's given
to you by God because you're created in the image of God.
That's what this text means by the divine light.
It's rather the way the Quakers actually teach that everyone, every person has the
divine light within.
They may not know it, it may be so buried they don't have any idea that within each
of us there is a potential link to the divine source from which we come, that you may have
access to that if you look for it, but you may not even know it's there and most people
don't.
