There are characters in Odyssey 19 who are not happy about the reception of Odysseus the
beggar and somebody washing his feet and there's a slave woman named Melantho, a female slave.
She earlier complained about Penelope's generosity to Odysseus the beggar.
The hero then rebuked her for discrimination against the poor and Penelope accused her
of having committed a monstrous act of hospitality.
The rephrases will be important when we look at the Gospel of Mark.
As Mark Jesus was eating a woman carrying an expensive stone jar broke it and poured
a precious ointment over his head and down his body.
Apparently she had recognized what the disciples had not, namely that soon he would die and
his body would need anointing for burial.
The twelve scolded her for not carrying instead for the poor.
These are, this is the same word that's used in the Odyssey for Melantho, the rebuke of
Melantho for not carrying for the poor.
Jesus insisted that she committed a beautiful act, a Kallan Ergon, whereas in the Odyssey
Penelope says Melantho has created a mega Ergon that is an outrageous act.
Same word for the act in Greek.
I want to emphasize that, so it's, so do remind people of that Greek point again because
I want people to not miss that, the fact that the same Greek is being used is really crucial
to this.
Okay, Odysseus in disguise as a beggar accuses Melantho of not carrying for the Ptochoi and
you have the same issue about the poor with the same word, Ptochis.
And also Penelope accuses Melantho of doing a mega Ergon that is not outrageous or a
great act.
And we have Jesus saying that the woman who anointed him did a Kallan Ergon, a good act
as opposed to a bad act.
This is crucial, the Greek lining up with the concept of what's being done to the story,
this is what real, this is one of many pieces of this that actually indicate that the emulation
is what's happening here.
And it's not just emulation, it's advertised emulation.
Mark is not disguising his use of Homer and actually these parallels continue.
The name Eurycleia means far-fung fame.
And Homer puned on it in Penelope's statement to her in Odyssey 19, if one is noble and
of noble heart, strangers carry one's fame far and wide, kleos eru, reversing the words
of Uru kleos, to all peoples and speak of one's excellent.
Luke freely redacted Mark's account at the beginning of his transformation of the pericope
peccatura that we had talked about before.
Now I'm going to ask Derek to read on page 206 the entire story in Mark from Mark 14
3 to 9.
You can make your own judgment about the parallels.
And while he was in Bethany at the house of Simon the Lepper, and as he was reclining
at dinner, a woman entered, who brought an alabaster jar of very costly ointment of pure
nard.
She broke the alabaster jar and poured the ointment down over his head.
But some people expressed with each other their indignation.
Why this waste of ointment?
This ointment could have been sold for more than 300 dinari, and donated to the poor.
That goes off to the next page, right?
And that word to poor is the same word used in the Odyssey.
And they scolded her harshly, Mark, but Jesus said, let her be.
Why do you trouble her?
She has performed a beautiful act on my behalf, for you always have the poor with you.
And when you wish, you can do good for them.
But you do not always have me.
She offered what she had.
She anticipated the anointing of my body for burial.
And I tell you, truly, wherever the good news is proclaimed throughout the whole world
or through the world, what this woman has done also will be spoken of in other words.
That is, she will have Euroclea.
She will have renowned, far and wide.
And the reader expects, this is a flag to Euroclea, that this woman is doing a generous
act that will be remembered everywhere, just as Euroclea's generosity would be proclaimed
throughout the Greek world.
Any comments?
No, that's beautiful.
I just think that that right there alone, the name means the very phrase in which Jesus
is using, is a huge red flag on top of everything carrying Eurocles.
Yeah, and it's worth showing people, I'm going to show people this.
So you have the synopsis, I don't know if this will show up on video, but you can at
least see the structure of the page.
But he's got all of the Homeric verses that you can actually go and check, complete with
And then when we have the comparisons here, the synoptics, we have again all of the passages
that you would need from Homer to actually see the parallels and figure it out.
Well, in fact, it's right that those things in the footnote come from Homer, but they
actually come from a Byzantine retelling store, the bottom footnote stuff.
So you have the Homer passages here, but down here in the footnote we've got the Homeric
And these are poems.
There are five large poems done over a period of about half a millennium, actually, beginning
in the fourth century.
The first poet actually was a woman, the wife of Theodosius the second.
These texts have never been exhaustively translated in any modern language that we've had a critical
addition of them only in the last 15 years or so.
And you will not find what we're going to read right now in any commentary or discussion
of this text.
And I think it shows clearly that these authors saw in this story echoes of the story of Odesius
and they did not shy away from identifying those similarities and using the Homeric lines
that inspired Mark to retell the Markian story.
So Homer is both earlier than Mark and later than Mark when the Byzantine authors retell
the story.
It's really quite an amazing phenomenon.
And it's another proof of concept.
They saw this.
So one of the criticisms of your work is like, why didn't they see it?
Well, here they did.
Do you want us to read that?
Yes, we do.
And in fact, I'll read the things that are not Homeric.
And I'm going to invite Richard to read the things that are so in footnote 32.
The following lines from recension one of the Homeric entones, retell Jesus anointing
and retain the pun on the name Euroclea.
I would not.
Oh, you want me to go there?
Okay.
I would not object to a woman like this touching my feet.
It's right from Odyssey.
Woman, no mortal on the boundless earth would reprove you for your renown extends to the
far off.
Cleos, you're on.
Yep.
To the far off sky.
Like that of a faultless king who God fearing rules over many valiant men, maintaining justice
and the Black Earth brings him as snow melted on the high mountains, snow that the Eurost
thawed when the Zephyrus poured over it.
Let me read the transition.
Okay.
Yeah.
Because here are some more imitations of the Niptra in recension one, and they describe
the grieving mother of Jesus, the Theotokos.
Ah, I see.
Yeah.
As this is again, these are lines from Homer, ultimately, as snow melted on the high mountains,
snow that the Eurost thawed when the Zephyrus poured over it.
And as it melts the flowing river's bulge, so her beautiful cheeks melted as she wept.
So just as Penelope weeps for her husband, Theotokos weeps for her dead child.
To comfort Mary, a divine voice came to her.
By the way, all of these lines come from the Niptra, that is Odyssey 19.
I've identified them by specific lines.
Some of the lines are identical, some of them are modestly changed because of the environment.
To comfort Mary, a divine voice came to her with comforting words drawn, especially from
Odysseus' transfiguration to Telemachus and his prediction to Penelope in the Niptra.
And I will tell you another thing and place it in your heart.
Your child is safe and will come very soon.
Such a son as anyone might desire to have.
Not for long will he be far from his loved ones and homelands.
Surely all these things will come to pass, just as I say.
You will see him, for I suppose that you will not stop weeping, groaning, and tearful lamenting
until you lay your hands, lay your eyes on him.
But I will give you this command.
For now, go to your home at daybreak and speak with the mighty suitors, the eleven disciples
in this case obviously, not lost.
I think that's enough, honestly, just for time, I'm sorry to interrupt you.
But in the same footnote, Richard, toward the end, at the end of the chapter of Resension
2, after the healing where the mark and story has the woman serve a meal, the poem strings
together from Odyssey 11, fourteen Homeric lines of the sixteen, often in the same sequence.
So all of the following lines Richard's going to read come from Odyssey 19, several of them
appear in exactly the same sequence, and it's used for the retelling of the story that we
have in Mark.
So for quickly mortals.
For quickly mortals grow old because of hardship, here referring to Euryclia.
Thus the wise mother of Peter answered him, Dear stranger, never before has a man so prudent
of dear strangers from afar come here to my house.
So thoughtfully prudent as you are in everything that you say, While I am an old woman, a good
caregiver, I will wash your feet, though I am frail.
And that's originally from a Penelope line, but here it's the mother of Peter.
Jesus responds, Washings of feet do not please my heart, and no woman shall touch my feet.
For many nights on a wretched bed I have slept and waited for the bright throne dawn.
Unless there is an old woman, a good caregiver, who has suffered in her breast as much as
I, I would not object to a woman like this touching my feet.
I don't know how one can deny mimesis in this example.
And to deny mimesis is to say that the Byzantine authors were smoking dope.
Right.
Sorry.
But we have verbal similarities that are significant.
After all, the difference is Odysseus comes back, never having died.
And the point in the story in Mark is Jesus is going to die after his death and be triumphant.
And the Euryclia recognizes that she has spiritual perception in a way that the disciples don't.
They want to send, give the money to the poor, which is a virtuous, obviously, but you don't
always have Jesus.
And so this read, you also have a rebuke.
And so I mean that the parallels are just so striking that now this is the, if you will,
the camel's nose under the tent, and it's not going to be long before the whole camel
is under the tent.
If one can grant such advertised mimesis in this case at a crucial point in the Christian
narrative, you've got to be open to seeing such mimesis elsewhere.
Yeah.
I mean, it's worth reemphasizing for people might not have caught it that they actually
were able to completely retell the entire gospel using nothing but lines from Homer.
So what is the probability that you could do that unless the original gospels were
already doing that, essentially?
And what they do here, of course, is they're doing it much more literally, they're much
more directly.
They're taking actual lines, whole lines from Homer, slight modifications here and there,
but it's clear what they're doing is they're going, oh, that's that will do this, that
will do this, that will do this, and it all falls together, which would not probably be
possible had Mark, for example, not already built all these narratives out of Homeric
passages.
And you have analogous imitations in Greek tragedy, in Greek novels, and in a Jewish
novel.
So what Mark is doing here is a part of a literary tradition that is spread throughout
the culture that Mark is living in.
Ladies and gentlemen, join Mithition's Patreon not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you enjoyed that show.
I have hundreds of other ones on the Patreon, letting you guys know you can help us continue
doing what we're doing at Mithition Podcast.
Although you can have questions asked to the academics that I research with and I interview,
your question can be asked in a 1080p high quality video that might end up on YouTube.
Like I said, ladies and gentlemen, I want to expose the cults, show these superstitions
for what they are, and the errors within these texts and all of these religions to help people
realize they're all manmade and that we have what it takes.
All we need to do is pull together.
Let me tell you something.
The religious world has the financial backing that those skeptics such as myself don't have.
So if you want to help and be a participant, you can for a little bit a month.
It's not much.
If you want to go more, you can.
But like I said, this is how I can keep the lights on for Mithition.
