Let me know what you think in the comments down below and I'll see you in the next one.
Welcome to Myth Vision podcast, your host Derek Lambert, Dr. Luther G. Williams is still
getting that book ready guys, get ready because when it comes out, I know you guys are going
to show him some love and buy the book and we have a special guest, I want to dig right
into this.
You guys want me to shorten up what I do in the intros, well that's fine.
We're going to start jumping right into this.
I have Reverend C.H. Lawson and some of you on Facebook know him as Christopher Lawson.
He's going to be bringing a totally interesting view on Jesus that you don't hear anywhere
else that I haven't heard anywhere else and he's going to delve into very interesting
topics.
Christopher, if you don't mind, could you introduce yourself and tell us a little bit
about things you've had, people have interacted, maybe a little bio even if you don't mind.
Well fine, I'll read about the author on my Reconstructing Jesus from the back page.
This is in the third person so I'll be referring to myself in the third person.
C.H. Lawson is a retired elementary school principal who received a certificate of teaching
in 1979 endorsed for Bible and endorsed for elementary grades, all grades, all subjects.
Prior to graduate studies in elementary education and psychology at Andrews University graduate
school, he studied pre-medical at McMaster University.
He received his B.A. in theology from Atlantic Union College taking multiple minors in the
biblical languages, classical Hebrew, Aramaic, Koine Greek, textual criticism.
From 1980 to 1995, he authored an unpublished study that details the history of the Nazarene
community at Krum Ran, well known for its association with the famous Dead Sea Scrolls
called for Christ's sake the messianic movement of the first century in the light of the Dead
Sea Scrolls.
In 2010, he was called as an expert witness in an important constitutional challenge brought
by the Church of the Universe in the Superior Court of Justice in Toronto, Ontario.
He provided the court with historical, archaeological, linguistic, and theological evidence.
He specifically explained the historical influence of anti-agenic mystery rituals from diverse
cultures and religions of antiquity and their complex impact on the development of early
Judaism, inter-testamental Judaism including the Dead Sea Scrolls community, and early
Christianity.
Dr. Carly P. Rock, professor of classical studies at Boston University, the world's foremost
authority on ancient mystery religions, and author of graduate textbooks on advanced Greek
was also called as an expert witness.
His review of Lawson's lengthy written submission, a clearly written, comprehensive presentation
of the evidence.
And Dr. Rock was kind enough to actually add a blurb to the cover of my book.
He said, quote, reconstructing Jesus applies the simplest of methods for investigating
the sources for an historical account and comes up with a very plausible documentation
of the Jesus event as mythologized history, whose actual happening makes much better sense.
This essay will explain why there was so much fuss and obfuscation about the Dead Sea Scrolls
and why the subject is still too hot to handle.
Anyone who does not wish to think should avoid this, like the plague, end quote.
Thank you, Carl, for that one.
Okay.
Do you have a question?
Do you want me to just get into it?
I say we go into the deep end.
I just want to say you covered a lot of stuff there, so you guys might have to play that
back to hear some of the credentials and some of the things that you've been involved in.
So please, what's the question centered around other than who is Jesus?
I mean, for crying out loud, wars and, I mean, for 2,000 years, we've had this religion start
to take over and control and battle against other religions, and until this day, we scratch
our heads and go, well, is it Bart Ehrman's Jesus, or is it mythicism?
What are you bringing to the table?
Well, I think everybody that you've mentioned has a little bit to offer.
I agree with Ehrman that there's an historical root.
I agree with Carrier that there's been all sorts of mythologization that's occurred.
What I do not appreciate about Carrier is that he has ignored the most important sources
in his research.
You do not hear, except a few occasional snippets and a few small footnotes about the Dead Sea
Scrolls role in his analysis.
And one of the foremost scrolls researchers, Robert Eisman, whom I profoundly respect because
of the evidence that he brings to the table, his evidence is not considered at all by Carrier.
You can't find a single reference to Eisman anywhere in Carrier's work.
That is a serious flaw of Carrier, and he loses all credibility in my book on that count
alone.
If you don't mind me pausing right there, because I think that's an important point,
does, okay, there's been a lot of scholars who suggest Eisman's dating is wrong, okay?
Regardless though, the textual evidence, regardless of what you want to do with carbon dating,
the textual evidence is what you're trying to appeal here, right?
I mean, yes, the textual evidence, and there's a lot of evidence within the scrolls about
the dating.
So what we really need to talk about is why people have a misconception about the dating
of the scrolls.
There was intentional misdirection put out about the scrolls by the people who had control
with the scrolls.
The international team was predominantly a Roman Catholic operation, with the exception
of John Allegro, who opposed the Catholic team's conceptions and understanding of what
was in the scrolls.
Allegro was saying when the truth about the scrolls came out, it would be the demise of
the Roman Catholic Church.
So keep that in mind, and also consider that Allegro was by far, by orders of magnitude,
the most superior linguist in that entire international team of Dead Sea Scrolls scholars.
He really carries a lot of weight, and by fluke of circumstance, he got assigned some
of the key scrolls that are very, very revealing.
So that worked out against the Catholic Church's interest in that way.
So to be fair to Carrier, if you don't mind me bringing this up, or what fairness is,
is the same way Carrier recognizes something fishy is going on with the early church fathers
and Eusebius, and possibly with this insertion of the testimony in Flavinium and stuff.
Just as much as there's something going on there, you're suggesting something's going
on here, and they're not even paying attention to the very same argument that they're using
for early church and all this stuff, right here under our nose, within this century,
or within the past century.
Absolutely.
The leading scrolls, the guy who was in charge of that team was a cardinal rat singer, who
also at the same time he was in charge of the scroll research, held the office of
the head of the congregation for the doctrine of the faith.
That is the new Catholic name for what in the Middle Ages was called the Grand Inquisitor,
Inquisitor General.
So a rat singer had the Inquisitor General position in the Catholic Church, whose job
was to keep the faithful flock adhering to the traditions of the church.
That's important.
That's his primary role.
And he had that role in hand the entire time.
And in my opinion, it was his obfuscation of the Dead Sea Scroll research that got him
put into the position where he became Pope Benedict.
Interesting.
Interesting.
So what's the Dead Sea Scrolls have to do with Jesus?
I mean, you know, we...
That's a good question.
When the Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered, the first of them were discovered, the K-1
Dead Sea Scrolls discovered in 1948, revealed seven different documents.
And we had a sample of one of them, the Damascus document.
We already had a sample from the Cairo Geniza in Egypt.
And so we had hints about it.
These documents are extraordinary documents.
For example, the Damascus document ends with an extraordinary statement.
It says, and they will see his salvation because they trusted in his holy name.
And that's the end line of the document there.
But when you realize that the Hebrew there, they will see his salvation.
The Hebrew there is Yeshua.
They will see Yeshua because they trusted in his holy name.
And now they didn't give away names unless they could do double entendre and little tricks
like that in the Scrolls.
Otherwise, no one was named for security purposes.
This sect was very xenophobic.
So the Dead Sea Scrolls do have a very interesting picture of the sects in Judaism.
Now, people have said that they were 2nd century BC.
Who said that?
The Catholics.
The Catholics have an axe to grind.
What was their evidence for saying 2nd century BC?
They came up with what they call paleographical data.
But they were comparing one Dead Sea Scroll with another and guessing it.
Well, how many variations are in this one in the lettering for this?
And they were coming up with all sorts of weird mixes.
And they were arguing with each other on how to place them together
because the whole thing was a big artificial mix and that's not how you do paleography.
To properly do paleography, you need to have control scrolls that are properly dated by
some other method that you already know are reliable, whether there's dates within the
Scrolls or whether the Scrolls are sandwiched between datable layers or things like that,
or some other evidence internal from other Scrolls that you know the certain dates and
you compare that handwriting to the others.
Now, at best, it's a bit of vague guessing anyways, because especially in view of the
Dead Sea Scroll community, revered ancient writing techniques.
And we know this when you look at the temple scroll.
They used Paleo Hebrew whenever they came across the divine name Yahweh.
They wrote that in Paleo Hebrew letters where the rest of it was written in Aramaic square
script.
So they obviously revered ancient writing techniques.
So to say that they can tell this writing from this period or that period is a very,
very weak way of doing it.
And especially when there's no comparable Scrolls to use as a control.
And that's essential.
You have to have a whole volume of Scrolls.
And I'm going to quote GR driver from the forward to one of the leaders of the International
Team's research.
And the driver says, quote, no written Jewish works other than a few inscriptions on tombs
and odd papyrus and so on survive in their original Hebrew form between the book of Daniel
and the Meshna.
All that is extant of Jewish literature is in translation, end quote.
So they don't have any writings from the second century BC, first century BC to compare them
to.
So they can't say the Paleography proves that second century BC.
That's just absolute nonsense.
Furthermore, many different scholars have looked at the Scrolls and assumed a first century
provenance.
I'm just looking for a piece in my document to pull up the reference there.
Yeah, please do.
First of all, I mentioned that Barbara Theuring, who's got some really crazy theories about
the Jesus story.
I shouldn't say crazy, but hard, hard to accept and most scholars don't.
But she does recognize a first century pattern of pestering commentary style in the Dead Sea
Scrolls and in the New Testament.
So that indicates a first century thing there.
Eugalea Dean recognized first century comparisons between the War Scroll and first century Roman
Army military manuals, and Andrei Dupont-Summer concurred on that.
And let's see, I'm doing this from memory because I couldn't find the quote I wanted.
Also Cecil Roth and G.R. Driver both recognized the historical elements and descriptions
to match the zealots of the first century in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So there are many reasons for thinking first century for the Dead Sea Scrolls, but there's
a lot more.
One of the key things is the internal evidence itself.
The Dead Sea Scrolls have parables, and that's something that's very unusual.
It used to be a criticism of the Gospels to say that this Jesus had to be made up because
they weren't any parables until the rabbinic period of this format.
And to say that Jesus was running around saying rabbinic style parables,
that seems like that's evidence that it's made up.
But then all of a sudden we come to the Dead Sea Scrolls and we find parables all over the place,
and that's an indication that these can't be second century BC.
If they were having a complaint about the veracity of the New Testament story by saying
the parables, how do you push them back to first century instead of second century,
or at least late first century?
If you're having trouble pushing them back to Jesus time,
how in the world can you justify pushing them back two centuries earlier still?
So that just doesn't make sense at all.
Furthermore, the Dead Sea Scrolls match the teachings of Dude of the Galilean.
If you read the descriptions and wars of the Jews and descriptions and antiquities
from Giusephus of what Judah taught and compare it to the teachings in the schools,
you'll see that the sectarian schools in Qumran match Judah's teachings.
And we know Judah was first century that he met his demise in 6 CE after the tax revolt.
And this is part of the story.
To understand the chronology of the Jesus story will help you put the pieces together
a little easier.
First of all, I want to suggest my main methodology in approaching the Jesus story.
I basically wanted to find what little piece of the story can I find that might be true,
or it might be testable.
And I came up with the idea of the repeated theme of royalty.
If Jesus was the heir to the throne, that would make sense.
It was a messianic claim.
Isaiah 66, very, very clear that Messiah is going to be a conquering king.
In fact, that chapter in the Isaiah scroll from Qumran had an X mark beside it.
So they really, really blew to that.
So the idea of calling Jesus Mashiach, or our word Messiah, means he's a United King.
To call him Christos in Greek, our word Christ, again means anointed king.
The idea that he was competition for King Herod, Herod was nervous who's this other king guy,
to say that there was a star story associated with his birth.
Whether it's a legend or a myth or not, just that it's associated with his birth,
brings in Numbers 24 in the Balaam prophecy, the idea that there will be this special king.
And what's that king going to do?
Well, he's going to conquer.
He's going to be a scepter over the whole planet.
So they definitely believed in a physical, vigorous, messianic king, but they were smart about it.
They were planning ahead.
They were not taking any chances with a more powerful force.
They looked at Jeremiah's promise to say there shall always be a king over Israel,
and they took it as a command and a promise.
And they had an alternative king ready to fight the Romans.
They had an alternative high priest ready to replace the one appointed by the Romans.
The Roman appointees got their position because they were sucking up to the Romans
and they were pushing Roman agenda, or they had simply paid off the Romans to get that position.
So when you get a position as sensitive as a high priest or the king of the country up for sale,
you can expect that the people who are going to be the most conservative and the most
traditional of the Jewish people are going to respond the most vigorously.
And this has led the Jews to what was called a zealot movement.
Now, the zealot movement has been misrepresented as being criminal in the New Testament,
a typical slander.
Everything in the New Testament is a twist on the original story,
because the New Testament is the later story, the Romanized story.
So Jesus is mocked by the Romans, and one of the things they mock the most is his royalty.
So when he's crucified, he's got a crown of thorns.
He's got a robe that they make him wear and whip him.
They crucify him.
Crucifixion was a political punishment.
They put a sign over the cross.
There's three different versions of the sign.
And since it was something that's supposed to be written down, you would think they'd be identical,
but they're not.
The only thing they have in common is Jesus as the king.
In the trial of Jesus in Mark, it's 15 verses long, but it mentions king of the Jews six times.
So the theme of the king makes sense, and then he's going to come back as the Messianic king
and restore the kingdom of David.
All these things in the songs, Hosanna, Son of David, all these things say king, king, king, king, king.
Well, a king is a multicultural concept.
It's something we can understand even if we're not born as a Jew.
We can understand the concept of a king.
And we have examples of monarchies existing today.
We know how they work.
And if you want to know who Jesus's father was, well,
if the king story has any credibility, then his father had to be the previous king.
That's how monarchies work.
So if you go to England today and you ask who is the queen, everybody knows.
Pick up a dollar bill or a coin or a stamp.
You know the queen's face.
You want to know who the previous queen was or previous king?
Again, look at the coins.
Everybody knows who the next one's going to be.
He hasn't been crowned yet, but you already know who's in line.
So the same would be true of Jesus.
Everybody would know he's the guy in line.
And they used a special name for this guy.
He was the branch of David.
And so they used the term the branch in the Dead Sea Scrolls to speak of him.
And the Dead Sea Scrolls describe a group that matched the Jesus story.
They believe in angels.
They believe in resurrection.
So we can rule out it being with Sadducees.
These people are politically hostile to the Romans to the point of xenophobia.
So we can rule out the Pharisees.
They refer to the Pharisees as seekers after smooth things in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
They didn't like him.
So we can rule them out.
So Josephus told us that the Jews were divided into basically three sects.
Then elsewhere, he describes him as being described in four sects.
He breaking one down into having a more radical group.
And it is that third sect, the Ascene group, that our group from Cuma comes from.
And when you understand what the names of the sects mean,
it also helps us to make the right identification.
And people say, well, wait a minute.
There are so many sects.
There are a meme all over the place, people will say.
Well, that's true after the Roman destruction and the scattering and the diaspora.
That's true then.
But it was not true before the Roman destruction.
Josephus is very clear.
It's three.
You're at best counted into four sects.
And that's all.
So it's fair to say, if you don't mind, because I don't want to interrupt where you're headed.
It's fair to say the earliest movement was Israel only.
Yes, exactly.
And Matthew preserves that idea.
Jesus telling the disciples, go on the amounts, the cities of Israel.
And before you've gone, all the cities of Israel, the Son of Man will already return.
And here's that theme of a short period of time when there'll be a gap and then there'll be a return.
And the Dead Sea Scrolls have that expectation of one of their teachers of righteousness that
they called the unique teacher.
Now, there were a series of these teachers and one of the teachers,
the teacher that took over after Jesus, we know that the Jesus movement was taken over by his
brother James, the Gospel of Thomas predicted that there's a saying there that says,
the disciples came to Jesus and asked him after you, who should we seek?
And said, well, wherever you are, go to James the righteous for his sake, heaven and earth were born.
And so he's saying James is the guy.
And the church fathers, I should be us and others all say, yeah, James took over afterwards.
It fits.
James was even said to have such recognition of respect amongst all the other rabbis that
apparently in 62 CE, they pleaded with him to calm the crowds because in 62 CE,
there was some kind of expectation that related to Jesus as a Messiah.
And it was supposed to be happening soon.
So when you combine these things and the fact that the Dead Sea Scrolls say,
their teacher righteousness, this unique teacher, they expected him to resurrect.
Now that's another thing, resurrection is a big, big deal.
But this resurrection is not a Greco-Roman style resurrection or that kind of expectation.
The Greco-Roman expectation is typically three days like Mithras.
But this was a Jewish group, purely Jewish, very devout Jewish.
They were reenacting the Exodus.
That's a 40 year wait.
So they expected there to be a 40 year wait from the teacher righteousness
and his death to the time when he would come back in glory.
And this helps us date the scrolls because obviously you don't write that in the scrolls
if you've already been disappointed and the time has already passed.
And you don't write it as something future ahead.
It just doesn't make sense any other way, but that the Dead Sea Scrolls are written after the death
of Jesus and before the time when he was supposed to resurrect.
This 40 year wait reenacting of the Exodus is supposed to end the same way that the Exodus ended.
The Exodus ended with a Joshua figure taking control of the Promised Land.
Well, Joshua is the Hebrew way of saying the Aramaic Yeshua.
Yahashua, Yeshua, same name, both mean salvation.
And that's Jesus' personal name.
So Jesus fits as a Joshua read of Vivas.
They expect him to come back in 40 years.
If you look at Judah the Galilean as being Jesus' father, then it makes sense of a whole lot of
other things. All of a sudden it has explanatory power.
Judah was called the Galilean.
All of a sudden we have a sense of why the name the Galilean got stuck to Jesus.
People say, well, didn't that get stuck to Jesus because he was born in Nazareth?
No, that's part of the misinformation that the New Testament tried to put out.
Nazarene has nothing to do with Nazareth.
Nether did not the same thing at all.
That's what I thought.
I thought that as well, that it was maybe a later attachment to that locality,
you know, based on this Nazarene concept.
Based on a sounder-like word and the fact that they were dealing with Gentiles who knew nothing
about the Hebrew meanings of the names of the various sects.
So if you were a Pharisee, it was because you were separated from the word Paras.
If you were a Sadducee, it means you thought you were righteous from the word Zaddik.
Or you thought you were an heir to the righteous priesthood of the sons of Zaddik that were
preached about in the book of Ezekiel for the restored temple.
And that's also spelled Zaddik.
So Zaddik came either that way or through being righteous ones.
And then the Essenes, they were doers of the law.
You were in Essenes, you were a Seah Hathorah.
The collective plural is Essenes.
We've recognized that to Essenes.
If you were a Nazarene, you were a guardian or as in a keeper, a jailkeeper type of keeper.
You were a protector of the covenant.
The collective plural is Nazarene Habri.
So Nazarene is where that name came from.
Jesus was known as the Nazarene, which may well mean, of course, that he would be the later.
So it all makes perfect sense.
They even describe their sectarian names, and sectarian names are important.
Now, just to be sure that we got the right sect, this sect also believed in the Holy Spirit.
All throughout the scrolls, you hear about Ruach Qalash.
And this over and over again.
So no other sect of Jews use that name over and over and over again.
There are a few other sectarian references where they use it in an articulated form,
which is a little bit different linguistically than the way the Dead Sea Scrolls did it.
It has no significant meaning linguistically, that difference.
But it is a marker that identifies the way this sect wrote their name,
as distinctive from the others.
And the fact that in 300, 400 years of all the other sects,
you can only find maybe half a dozen references to Ruach Qalash.
But yet in only a 10-year period or a 30-year period at most in the Dead Sea Scrolls,
you're talking about hundreds, if not thousands, of references to Ruach Qalash.
It's like all of a sudden this was a sectarian theme song.
So we've got the right sect.
There's no way we can be missing our mark on this.
And this sect, they had a sacred meal of bread and wine, just like the Christians.
There are so many things that fit exactly.
But back to the timing.
Jesus allegedly had some sort of star story related to his birth.
It is entirely possible that there was a celestial event
that was timed with the birth of the historical Jesus.
Now there is a triple conjunction of the three slowest wanderers that occurred in 7 BC.
That is very interesting.
The wanderers are the planets in the solar system.
But they didn't know they were planets.
They thought they were special stars.
All the other stars in the sky end up in the constellation that you find them in.
And they stay in that constellation.
And that part of the sky revolves around out of sight.
Those stars go with it.
They're never up in any other constellation.
But the wanderers, they could have any constellation at all in the background
and show up just any old place.
So they were very, very special and they were considered to be extra powerful deities
because of this extra free will that they got that the other stars didn't.
The ancients would have noticed that the wanderers had grouped together.
If they got close to each other within the distance of the width of the moon in the sky,
they called it a conjunction.
Now in 7 BC, the three slowest wanderers conjuncted together.
Now that's significant.
The fastest wanderers, of course, are Mercury and Venus because they're closest to the Sun.
So they have a much faster orbit around the Sun.
But Mars and Jupiter and Saturn that can be together, conjuncted together in 7 BC,
they are over 2,300 times less frequent of a conjunction than the other time.
So this would have been very, very significant.
Now furthermore, Babylonian tablets have preserved for us that the Babylonians took
note of these conjunctions and that when these three slowest wanderers gathered together,
they considered it to be the birth of a king.
And the tablets from Babylon also tell us that they paid attention to what Zodiac sign,
they called it the Maseroth, was in the background when this conjunction occurred.
Because as we mentioned earlier, they could show up anywhere in the sky.
And they assigned one of their neighboring nations to each of these signs of the Zodiac.
And they assigned the background for the 7 BC conjunction was the constellation Pisces
and the Babylonian tablets assigned Pisces to Judea.
So 7 BC, we have all the indications that on ancient astrologer,
then we have the story that it was ancient astrologers from Babylon who noticed this.
It fits the Bible story to say that it was these guys who were saying,
hey, something special is happening here.
Now the rest of the story, the slaughter of the innocent, that's all nonsense.
That didn't happen historically. There's no way that a Roman appointee king,
puppet king would be doing that kind of behavior under Roman control.
He's so far from the center of the kingdom, it was hard to control.
There's no way he'd be stirring up that kind of storm in a province already hard to handle.
So that's mythical, the slaughter of the innocent.
But the concept of the age of the targets in the story tell us what some of the history might be.
Even if they're making up the story, the story is based on history
in historical context of timing.
And they said the timing was you had to get the children two years old or younger.
Well, Herod died in 4 BC, so we don't go to the zero BC thing for Jesus' birth
because we know the whole BCAD thing or BCE and you want to do that way before Christian era
was developed by St. Francis Exigius in 600, roughly AD.
And it was his best guess, the zero mark was just his best guess for when it would be.
And he did a darn good job. We actually have to give that guy credit
because he was only out by a handful of years.
But we know Herod died 4 BC and Jesus had to be born before Herod died,
if any of the story makes sense.
So he had to be born before 4 BC if you take note that Herod didn't entertain any guests
in his last year of existence because he had a groin infection that eventually got
so infected that that's what killed him.
Yeah, so for his last year, he had no visitors.
So you have to add one year there and then you add the two years, the age of the children,
you got 7 BC and it exactly matches up with the astrological event.
So it does make sense that there was a root core and it wasn't just the Balaam prophecy of numbers 24 alone.
But even if it was just the Balaam prophecy, the very fact that they're applying this prophecy to Jesus,
the star idea to Jesus, shows that they thought of him as king.
Now, if you take 7 BC as Jesus' birthday and you say that Jude of the Galilean was Jesus' father,
then when Jude of the Galilean died in 6 CE, Jesus would be 12 years old.
That exactly matches the only mention of Jesus in the New Testament as a child,
that he says, no, you're not. I must be about my father's business.
And he sings right at 12 years old.
And it seems so it seems that there is something special happened to Jesus at 12
that was worthy of mention, but has been garbled because it wasn't in the interest of the New
Testament to let the clear story come out.
And one of the things that we know got garbled about the Jesus story is the anointing.
He's called the anointed one, the Messiah left, right and center, Christ, Christ, Christ,
Christ, everything, every other page is Christ 20 times.
So why can you call this guy the anointed one and never ever tell us the story of his anointing?
How does that work?
Why don't they tell us about the anointing?
Apparently, if Jesus was the king, he would have had to be the son of the previous king.
That would make him the son of Judah.
So at 12 years old, he was anointed king, but they couldn't let him go public
because he didn't have a son yet.
And they had that rule.
You can't let your last king go because he has to have an heir before you risk him.
He must always have a king.
Don't take any risk though.
So a way Jesus goes for a 20-year hiatus and the Dead Sea Scrolls talk about that time
precisely.
They say that the arrival of their unique teacher, the one that I suggest,
is the historical Jesus.
They say that the sect was wandering like blind men in the wilderness and God saw that
they were searching with a pure heart and he sent them a teacher of righteousness who showed them
the way using the very word Derek, which is equivalent to the Greek hodos, the word way,
way as in the path or the road, not way as in message.
Am I the anointed?
Pardon me?
That's it.
Am I the anointed now?
No, no, no.
But you've got a very noble name, got a lot of history behind it there.
The Hebrew Derek means the way, the Aramaic Darhi and the Greek hodos, all the same word.
So the Dead Sea Scrolls then say it was 20-year period before their teacher of righteousness
went out public.
And if Jude the Galilean died in 6CE, well he did die in 6CE, if he was the period at when the
sects began their wandering because their leader was dead and the new leader was only 12,
then that explains it.
It starts at 6CE.
20 years later is 26CE.
Now 26CE, if Jesus was born in 7BCE, and remember there's no year zero when Saint Francis
Exictus made this up, the math works out that Jesus would be 32 years old and 26CE when he
started his public ministry.
This matches what Luke 323 says.
Jesus was about 30, about 30, that makes sense if he was 32.
He had to be at least 30 to be acknowledged as a rabbi.
Some say older than that, but at least 30 anyways.
So that makes perfect sense.
Everything again fits.
Now the Dead Sea Scrolls say that this teacher that he died and they expected him to resurrect.
And again the 40-year waiting period, they said that he would resurrect right at the time
of a great war against the Jews against the Cateen.
The Cateen was their name for the Romans.
So the Jews were the ones who did the timing on the war.
It wasn't like the timing was forced on them.
The timing for the war started when the lower priesthood suspended all sacrifices on behalf
of the emperor.
And this lower priesthood was trained at Qumran, the Dead Sea Scrolls community.
So in fact the Dead Sea Scrolls community had been running drills with this priesthood
on how to do military commands.
The War of the Scrolls of the Sun's Light talked about all the signals and the trumpet calls
and everything for how the troops are going to be directed.
And the priests would be the generals and the captains and the lieutenants of this kind of a war.
So the priesthood was intricately involved in the planning for the war against Qumran.
And they set the timing for when it was all to occur.
So technically, if you don't mind me kind of like on that note, because I know you're going
somewhere good with this, the idea of prophecy or predicting, it's like modern politicians that
are Zionists, right?
They think they're forcing the hand for the prophecy to be fulfilled kind of idea.
That's what you're saying here is going on and that's why predictions could be made.
Yes, that's not why predictions could be made, but it's also why we can do our calculation of
the dates and the history in reverse, because they were in control of the dates.
These weren't accidental timings forced on them.
These were timings they were forcing on the Romans themselves.
So when we know that this is a sect that did the timing and that controlled what the priesthood
was being taught, then we can say, well, the Dead Sea Scrolls tell us that this righteous teacher
died 40 years before he was expected to win the war for them.
Well, that war came to a climax in the 70 CE.
And if the righteous teacher was crucified 40 years before that,
then they now have a date for the crucifixion of the righteous teacher in its 30 CE,
and it matches the Jesus story again.
You see, so every the timing works out completely.
And it explains why all these disturbances with Christus and other things in Jews and Rome,
the Jews being in our reference for their interpretation of the Christians,
they would have looked upon them as Jews.
These all make perfect sense that there are still machinations happening.
The Romans knew that this messianic story was a powerful, powerful story,
and it was helping the Jews to win the war.
There was a period later on when Bar Kokbo revolt used the same messianic idea,
and it empowered the Jews to clear out the Romans out of Palestine for about five years.
So the idea of a messianic figure was very, very important as a piece of military propaganda
to give them hope that they could win against the Romans.
And the Romans had to rewrite that mythology in order to take that power away from them,
because they knew that we may crush them now, but if there are believers in the story,
they're going to rise again and again and again unless we change the story.
Very interesting, because this ties in to so many of my guests that have come on.
Everyone is different. Every single one of you guys brings something different,
but this is what myth vision is all about. So they can go ahead and realize we're going to
bring a variety of different ideas. I really enjoy this. So Jesus is the son of Judas the Galilean
that you're talking about. Yes, and I prefer to call him Judah the Galilean because the name
Judah is noble. It's the name of a tribe. It's the name of a patriarch. It's the name of a country,
whereas Judas is the name of a Greco-Romanized hodgepodge that is supposedly traitorous.
Now again, the putting down thing, the name Judah, which would be Jesus's father's name,
and at the top of the tomb is the historical tomb for the historical Jesus. It's also the
name of Jesus's son. It's also the name of Jesus's brother, his younger brother. So his brother,
his father, and his son, all named Judah. So of course, from the New Testament,
it rewrites the story. What do you call the villain? Judah, only the Greco-Roman way of saying it is
Judas. So this is an inside joke, so to speak, not really because it wasn't really a joke.
It's a jab. It's a jab. It's a jab. So calling the person who gets Jesus killed is Judas.
It's almost like either you can say that that's a hit on Judas the Nation,
you can say that's a hit on his own family. It's the reason that he's being crucified.
Like, let's blame us. That's pretty intense. Yes. And when you look at how Mark, the first
gospel, portrayed Jesus's family, keeping in mind that it was Jesus's brothers who took over the
lead of the Jesus movement when Jesus died from 30 CE to 62 CE, 32 years. James was the leader of
the church after Jesus, 32 years, the key important years of the development of that organization.
And yet, he's completely ignored in the New Testament as the leader afterwards, except for a
few points in Acts where he's disputing with Paul. And we even get a, we get hints of his role there
because according to Acts, he sits on a throne, throne nose, and he says, I judge,
Krino, and as soon as he makes his judgment, everybody all shuts up and that's the end of
the story. He judged. Done. Okay, okay. You said someone's name that we have to rabbit
troll to Paul because there is so much confusion going on here. One of the people that I entertain
ideas with, we call them a group of preterists. They say that the prophecies have already happened
in the past, right? Because they're predicting a soon preteristic concept that's supposed to
happen soon. And they say, Hey, maybe these did happen. And they may have wrote them after the
fact. But regardless of whether they were actually fulfilled or not, I'm not concerned about that.
I'm more looking at this as Paul comes on a total different mission. Now, they were trying to make
sense of this text. And I kind of want your thoughts as we go into Paul, because I don't want to
deter you from what you know about Paul and what our audience needs to hear. But the Gentiles
that we're seeing here, they have an idea that they suppose the Gentiles that Paul is after are
actually scattered diaspora that are non Torah Orthodox that are just like they're paganized
Israelites that Paul's after. Now, most scholars would say these are actual pagans and not
actual Israelites that are like Samaritans and such that are, you know, they've gone pagan,
but they are Israelites, so to speak. What are your thoughts? Does it even matter at the end of
the day to you? Well, there was such a hodgepodge after James. Well, first of all, let's back up.
After Jesus died, James took over and Paul infiltrated the movement. He wasn't welcome.
He wasn't accepted. They wanted him dead. Acts 9 talks about the disciples of Jesus, and then it
goes on to say the disciples in Damascus, and then it says the Jews in Damascus, and then it says the
Jews. And they just progressively fog the idea that the people who are out to kill Paul literally
kill him, wanting him dead, were Jesus's loyal followers, who are working on behalf of the
interests of their group. That's how much they hated Paul. Now, Paul deserved it. They recovered
some of the markers from around the temple area from the first century temple. And the second
temple had a marker on every pillar around the court of the Gentiles. These pillars separated
the court of the Jews from the court of the Gentiles. And these pillars, one of them had the
sign in Greek, the next pillar had the sign in Latin, so no Gentile had any excuse for going
beyond these pillars. They said that you would be killed if you went beyond this point. If you go
into the sacred area, you will be dead. And dead that day, there'll be no trial, no nothing, and
no first defense leniency, no excuse that it was an accident. You go beyond this, you're dead.
If anybody tries to protect you against you being dead, they will be dead too, no matter who they
are. So that's on the signs. So the Gentiles knew better to do this. And here we have stories of
New Testament of Paul taking Timothy, who was part Gentile, if not all Gentile, around the
temple. And other Jews saying, look, this guy's got to die. And then the Romans show up with
hundreds of horses and hundreds of men, protection that would be fitting on aristocrat.
What was going on with Paul was getting all this special protection.
I'm losing you. You're getting quieter, like you're backing up.
Okay, well, basically Paul, Paul had a lot of protection from the Romans, and he had a lot
of hatred from the Jews. For someone who is supposedly the apostle, par excellence, this
doesn't make sense if he's legitimate. Paul was hated by the original followers. And Paul
matches the description in the Dead Sea Scrolls of a person that the Dead Sea Scrolls called
the liar. Now this liar or scotcher, he was said to have been once a part of the movement for a
short time. Paul was part of the early Christian movement for a short time. He was said to have
left the movement. Well, Paul left that movement. He was said to have then gone around preaching
a gospel that talked about a Eucharist that was poured, and they called him the poor of lies.
And Paul did run around having a mystery Eucharist that was poured. Then they said that this liar
opposed the law of Moses. Well, we know that Paul opposed the law of Moses, the whole idea.
Hagar or the slave woman's all cast out. It's ancient. Paul's whole theology is gets rid of all
the reasons for any distinctiveness for Judaism. And the Jews did not accept it. I don't blame them.
Yeah, so Paul definitely said that the law of Moses was done. And then the Dead Sea Scrolls say
that this guy went around raising up congregations. Now, who else will fit all five of those like Paul?
Nobody. I mean, it just absolutely fits. And then when you know that Paul comes into this as a relative
of the Herodian dynasty, he says in Romans 16, I say hello to my relative Herodian. He's got a
relative named Herodian. There's possible acts has one passage that hints that he may have been
raised with Herod the Tech card. Paul's a Roman citizen, according to Acts 22, I believe. And
a Roman citizen. Look at Romans. Was it Romans 13? Obey the law, the land that God put these Romans?
I mean, yeah, yeah. And the Dead Sea Scrolls, the the the rule of the community says that the
overseer of the community is to obey be obeyed because he was put in place by God. Paul said no,
no, Caesar's to be obeyed because he was put in place by God. Completely opposite.
Yeah. So Paul. Okay, let me get this straight. Paul is is obviously in my opinion, I guess my
motivational factor in this, in my opinion, is that Paul's trying to he's purposely trying to
break this or defeat without necessarily swords at this moment. He's trying to defeat a movement,
an ideological movement. Do you think his do you think that's what I was wondering. Do you think
the motivation on Paul's side and the Herodian side was, I mean, I know that it seems like if
it depends on how you look at this coin, do you think his motivations were trying to save
Israel from annihilation because the prophecies were heading to a dead end. I mean, look at what
they were planning on doing with Rome. Look at Rome. I mean, they are not to be messed with. You
know what I mean? Right. They are not to be messed with. And Paul knew their power. And Josephus
and Paul both appreciated the power of Rome and thought that you want to get on the winning side
on this equation. And so they jumped ship from the Jewish side to the winning side. In fact,
Josephus, when talking about the Jews, in one part of his writings, he says their country and
their laws. And that's, this is a Jew talking about Jewish laws and calling it their country,
their laws. He's obviously taken a stance that he's not part of that group in his own mind,
the way he speaks. So, and it makes sense. I don't know if you know the story of the details of
commonality between Paul and Josephus, but I'll give you 13 disturbing similarities between
Josephus and Paul. Please do. Okay. Both had a Herodian connection. Paul had a relative named
Herodian. Like Herod, Josephus had three wives, including a foreigner, two divorces, and spent
his final years as a very well-paid Roman appointed governor of Galilee. Both had Roman citizenship.
Now, this is really key because citizenship in Rome is not like citizenship today. You're born
in Canada. You're Canadian. You're born in the USA. You're an American. Yeah. And you got citizenship.
You're born in Rome. You haven't got Roman citizenship. You're not, you're born in Rome,
but you're not a Roman. You're Italian or whatever nationality your parents were or whatever,
but you're not a Roman. To be a Roman citizen, you had to grow up and do an adult, then join the
Roman military, survive 25 years. Then you're a Roman citizen. Otherwise, the emperor had to appoint
you a Roman citizen, or you had to buy it if you knew the right people and had sufficient money,
roughly $100 million in our money will buy you Roman citizenship, or you were part of a family
that was so snugly close with the emperor's own family for so many generations that the emperor
has decided your whole family has automatic citizenship by birth, the only ones in all
of Rome that have it. And that's the type of citizenship that Paul had. Beg's a question.
You think that was the one, right? The one that he was snugly close to the royalty of Rome?
Absolutely. Paul came from Tarsus. Tarsus was a city where Roman emperors kept their families,
and they also had a large population of Benjaminites. Benjaminites were the group
that were used by the Romans to infiltrate Judea. Benjaminites were the other half of the Southern
Kingdom of Israel, which comprised the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, but the whole
place was just called Judea. This is after the breakup of the South and North Kingdom.
The Northern Kingdom of Israel had 10 tribes. They got assimilated into Babylon and disappeared
from history that way, but the two tribes, Benjamin and Judah, kept their distinctiveness
into Roman times. Paul did not want to be called a Jew. He hated that. He did not want to be associated
with Judea or Jews. He called himself a Hebrew or an Israelite, anything but Jew. He hated that name.
Paul was named after the first king of Israel, who was also a Benjaminite. The very first king
of Israel was King Saul. Paul's name before he changed it to Paul. He's named after the very
first Benjaminite king. He's related to the herids, who also were all Benjaminites, and the
Herodian groups were all celebrating that the royal line rule had been restored to the Benjaminite
clan. That had been a grudge for the Benjaminites against the Judeans for centuries. When King Saul
was replaced, it wasn't by his son. It was by David from the line of Judah. Then they called
the kingdom of Judea leaving out Benjamin. The Benjaminite tribe was being bullied.
Then they consolidated their grip on power by starting off a myth that the predicted Messiah
would come from the line of David. They always had to have a Davidic king in the throne. If you
ever want to see the Messiah, keep the Judeans in the throne. Just imagine how the Benjaminites,
who had the kingdom first, thought about that. That's why the Romans, they were disgruntled and
the Romans used them as spies. Paul's named after the first king of Israel, who was a Benjaminite.
He lives in Tarsus, the main concentration where Benjaminites lived.
So both parts of Paul of Tarsus were screaming, I'm a Benjaminite. You might as well just know
that I'm a spy for the Romans and I'm one of those guys. He wrote in Philippians 4.22,
and all the rest of God's people send you greetings to especially those of Caesar's household.
Exactly. In fact, Paul said that they were saints in Caesar's household. He hobnob with Felix and
Agrippa. He hung out with Epaphroditus. Epaphroditus was a common name and Paul may have known more
than one Epaphroditus, but apparently this Roman slave Epaphroditus was a servant for Rome.
If it's the same guy, this guy was the personal secretary for Nero and then the personal
secretary for Domitian after Nero passed. He was also the publisher of Josephus' writings.
Some scholars like Paul Mer have suggested that there was a common editor of Josephus' writings
and Paul's writings because there are pastries in the writings that seem very, very similar. They
use the same adic Greek. They have the same very unusual idiosyncrasies in the grammar and they
have a distinctive vocabulary that is improbable by chance. And so they were suggesting scholars
have suggested there's been a Christian impact on these writings. And of course, everybody's
always known that Christian editing of Josephus' writings had to occur somewhere along the line
because in the testimony, you've got that fourth century concern whether it's lawful to call Jesus
a man, as if anybody cared about that kind of issue. Right. That graduated over time, that
deification to that kind of magnitude. That's not something that was right there at the beginning.
Right. And then when Mark rewrote the story, he changed it all so that he insulted the Jesus'
family. We mentioned Jesus' brothers took over, James took over after Jesus, and then Simon took
over after James, and then Judah took over after Simon. The Church Fathers, as you said,
as Epiphanes and all that, give us these details. So, we know that Jesus' family was very important.
James Tabor has made a very excellent case with his book, The Jesus Dynasty. I highly recommend
his work. The family and Mark, I think you're saying... Oh, yeah. That's right. The family is put
down in Mark. All of a sudden, you're talking about, you know, hey, Jesus, your family, your brothers
are outside waiting to talk to you. And Jesus says, oh, you know, they're my family. Listen,
you guys are more my family than they're my family. And then you have Mark saying, Jesus' family's
running around apologizing for Jesus' behavior. We're sorry, he's so crazy. We're going to take
him home now. So, the whole family is alluding that Jesus is crazy. And it's a whole, a big insult.
So, the whole rewrite, the New Testament is the reversal of everything.
That's exactly what Dr. Luther, my co-host, has started to see. And of course, I'm not going to
go into details, but he's writing a lot of the stuff that's going to be in the book, where he's
showing a lot of the sectarian Dead Sea scroll reversal of stuff. Paul knew this literature.
That's the point. So, whoever this author is, regardless of who you think Paul is,
whether you want to say Simon Magus, I don't care, even though I know what your position is.
And you also connect, like one of our previous people, who Paul is from Josephus, if I'm not
mistaken, in one of his writings. Yes, that's true. Josephus mentions, not mentioning Paul by name,
but mentioning a Jewish teacher who advises Queen Helen of Agaba, or Antioch, the other name for it,
that she shouldn't believe in circumcision. It's not necessary. And that's a typical Pauline idea,
reclations and colossians. You're going to get the whole anti-law and anti-circumcision thing.
And no need to worry about your kosher diet anymore. Paul was taking completely opposite
position to that, which was enforced upon him by James, according to Acts. And the very fact that Paul
lied about what his mission was about, when he was brought before James, according to the book of Acts,
James made the key issue was everybody wants to know whether or not you still respect the law,
the Torah. Are you a Torah observer, or are you not? Yes or no, Paul. No means we're going to kill
you here, which is it. So Paul said, well, Paul says, well, you know, I don't have to think about
this. I'm just going to say, oh, yes, I believe in that. So James says, well, then good, here's an
expensive ritual. We want you to go and pay for the sacrifices for these people who are all doing vows
and they want to clean up their act. And we want you to participate in this to prove to everybody
that you're a super strict Jew, that you don't believe the Torah is gone. And what does Paul do?
He complies. Well, that's a complete denial of everything you wrote in his letters to,
in all of his pistols to his churches. All his pastoral pistols can be just tossed out. Paul,
obviously, didn't believe it himself. If your life comes on the line, don't expect Jesus to save you.
Don't expect anything else. Just lie and say, I don't buy into that nonsense anymore, because that's
Paul's view of it when it comes down. But anyways, let's continue 13 disturbances between Josephus
and Paul. Both changed their allegiance. Paul was an agent for the Roman appointed Judaean
high priesthood. Then he was, and by the way, while we're talking about just to snip it on that,
he was given a warrant from the high priest to go and get those disciples who were called
followers of the way. And he was going to find them in Damascus. Now, when we realize that the
high priest only had authority in Judea, he couldn't give a warrant for any other place outside Judea.
We have to look for this Damascus in Judea. There were more than one place named Damascus,
which Damascus are we talking about? Well, apparently, it was in Judea. Eisman has just
come up with this uncovery of an archaeological site in Judea that seems to be part of James'
path away from the Romans, and where he has evidence that James stayed in Qumran for a while.
I'll attach the video on one of my papers online. I'll make sure you get a copy of that link.
Anyway, Paul was going to Damascus, and it turns out that Damascus
was the name of the settlement in the Judean wilderness for the Qumran sect. What we call Qumran,
they called Damascus. So now Paul's journey to Damascus, his whole idea of where was he converted,
and Acts 9 says this was the home of disciples. That links it again to Qumran.
Paul is an agent for the Roman appointed high priesthood. Then he was allegedly a convert to
the anti-Roman Nazarene group at Damascus, or Qumran, although it is more likely that Paul
was just one of many Roman spies. Since he never renounced the citizenship, he only stayed briefly.
He left under hostile circumstances, and he was provided the Roman protection
befitting that of an aristocrat. Josephus changed his allegiance from being a loyal commander of
Galilee and Zealot forces to becoming a useful human encyclopedia Judaica for his new Roman masters.
Both avoided death by recanting everything for which they stood. Paul raised up congregations
and wrote them letters with a repeated emphasis on the message that the laws of Moses have greatly
revered at Qumran. They were all abolished. He lived like a Gentile among the Gentiles.
Paul did a flip-flop when he called before James the Just. When Paul's life was on the line,
Paul renounced his faith in the gospel message. Josephus at Jodhupara was even more grossly
obsequious. Josephus was siding with the Zealots at a time when the Romans forced their retreat
into a cave with no other exit. It had devout packed the suicide like the one that was made at
Masada. These defeated freedom fighters each assisted their fellow to find their final dignity.
They cut each other's throat. Josephus cleverly convinced him of the dignity of his dying duty
and artfully arranged to be the final holder of the blade. At that point he surrendered to the
Romans and then dutifully assisted them in their lethal campaign throughout Judea against his other
countrymen. How do you trust a slime like that?
Yeah, I get it. It's taken me years to even look at Paul like this. If you were talking
about a detective show, this is the guy right under your nose the whole time that is doing
something and this is why I've been confused about really putting my hands on anything and saying,
oh, I'm very skeptical and rightfully so. I should be. I entertain ideas as if I believe them
because I want to absorb them, but I change to new ideas when evidence comes. Paul's up to something,
whoever the hell he is, he's up to no good, at least in the perception if you're looking at from
the Torah Orthodox Jewish side. But if you look at it from the political side, if we were America
back then, we would be infiltrating a movement just like that trying to and we've done it even
in modern times. Absolutely, absolutely right. Yeah, with these terrorist sex, we've sent undercover
agents in to try and infiltrate and some of them been caught and killed. So yes. And for all the
people that say, well, Paul couldn't be that bad, Paul admitted he was a murderer. He admitted that
he went fanatical in his murdering and that he did it for a long time and got all kinds of victims.
So that he had that in common with Josephus. Josephus killed all those guys
in Jerapatite, the cave there, and Paul admitted to slaying an unknown number of Jesus' followers
throughout Judea. Another commonality they have is both of them changed their names.
Joseph Ben-Mariahu became Titus Flavius and then Flavius Jephyrus and Solace became Paul.
Both were friends with the pathroditus. Both were friends with Roman nobility.
Both were appointed to impressive positions regarding Judean governmental administration.
Paul's warrant from the high priest identified as target, but Paul had to have had Roman
authorization because Paul had a license to kill and the Jews did not have such a license.
So that tells you something very significant too. You couldn't run around in a Roman province
killing people and get away with it without Roman authorization. So that's a very big step
that people just blithely ignore in their willingness to believe anything that sounds
like a nice spiritual story that they want to believe. The real story was a context of war.
You started out this show by mentioning that and I was glad because that's an important concept.
Everything about this whole thing is in the context of a looming war and of political battles.
Who's the king? The very, very vital thing. So Jesus was the leader of the resistance as the
oppressed heir to the throne in a nation ruled by a foreign conqueror. They had similar writings.
I mentioned the Paul and Josephus using distinctive Greek, etc. Both manipulated well-known prophecies
of the Old Testament for their own purposes. Paul modified the Old Testament prophesied
Hebrew world king, the Messiah, into a Greco-Romanized savior god, the Christ,
using the authority of his personal revelation to discard any obligations to Jewish laws or
traditions. Josephus also advocated the Hellenization of Judaism. Josephus applied the Balaam prophecy,
Numbers 24, to Vespasian. When Vespasian became emperor, he treated Josephus as if he were a
prophet, eventually appointing him a governor. Both came from rich aristocratic families with
vested interests in maintaining the status quo and both took liberties when it came to the way
that they represented their passionate opponents. Josephus rarely gives the entire picture where
insurgent groups are at issue. So that's an important concept. And Paul, of course,
ranted against James. When you talk about Paul's rants, you can use the New Testament for Paul's
rants and find all kinds of stuff on Paul that doesn't make Paul look that good.
Yeah, and it definitely pits them against one another. You can tell. I mean, Galatians really,
Galatians, Corinthians, Second Corinthians, talking about the super apostles. I mean,
he's trash talking these guys big time in, and that's what I've been recognizing. So is there any
peer-reviewed publications on some of this material to kind of convey this or?
Peer-reviewed material that would support this would be anything by Eisman, anything by S.G.F.
Brandon is very, very supportive of this. I recommend them with great passion and enthusiasm.
Doesn't he only have one publication, though, that's written and translated into English?
Who's that? S.G.F. Brandon? No, no, no. I must have someone else mixed up. Oh, that's Bauer.
He's got Jesus in the zealots, and he's got the one about the Jews.
No problem, no problem. I definitely enjoy this. This is informative, very informative.
Very, very informative. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously you're going to want to get the PDFs
that he has because he's already written some stuff, and I'll make sure you guys have access
to that so we can help support what he's doing. I think he's actually going to be selling the PDF
form. So if you want to get a copy of it, I'll make sure that you can get a hold of his PayPal,
and all you got to do when you send the money is put your email so that he can send over the
PDF to you in a comment box. Now, are you back, Christopher? I'm back, yes. Okay, what are you
going to, for your PDFs, because you've got some great information that's been written,
and I know that we talked about the PayPal thing. What is the cost? What would you, what do you
recommend? Give me whatever you think it's worth to you for this information. I'm not going to put
a specific price. I don't, if you have to only put in a dollar and that's all you want to do,
that's fine. If you want to put in $20 to help me out and encourage me, that'd be great, whatever
you want to do. I don't want to have anybody limited from getting the information. Again,
if you send it over and you're having complications, we'll make sure we have a PayPal for him, but
if you send it over, get up with me. I'm easy to get a hold of on Facebook. You can email me.
I'll put my email down here in the comment section, and I'll make sure to get up with him
so I can get you your PDF, and we'll make sure you get it, but we want to help you out for all
this work. Did you go over all the parallels between Josephus and Paul? Yes, I basically
covered them. Okay. And Brandon's other book is called The Fall of Jerusalem and the Christian
Church, a study of the effects of the Jewish overthrow of 70, 80, 70 on Christianity, a very
excellent book. So I recommend both of them. Yeah, if you want to compare what Paul says,
comparing himself to the other disciples, we can put it in synopsis form here,
just to give you a couple paragraphs here. Paul was amazing. Paul was extraordinary,
if you doubt it, just ask Paul. Jewish scholars and original disciples would have agreed that
the references in the book of Isaiah concerning a light to the Gentiles, Isaiah 42, were meant to
describe the Jewish Messiah, Acts 26. Paul tells us this was really a reference to himself, Acts 13,
Galatians 1, Ephesians 3. Paul claimed that he was called to be an apostle from the time he was in
his mother's womb, Galatians 1. In other words, Paul claimed he was in fact the very first apostle.
Am I not an apostle? 1 Corinthians 9, 1. Even though I may not be an apostle to others,
surely I am to you, 1 Corinthians 9, 2. It's obvious that this was a serious issue for Paul
in his day. After the death of Judas, a replacement was chosen to qualify as a potential new apostle.
The other original apostles decided a candidate had to have been, quote,
with us the whole time, beginning from John's baptism to the time when Jesus was taken up from
us, Acts 1, 21, 22. Paul was not chosen. In actual fact, Paul did not even qualify
to be a possible candidate. Paul said the people known as, quote, the apostles of Christ
were actually, quote, false apostles in disguise. 2 Corinthians 11, 13 to 15. Paul described
circumcision as mutilation, Philippians 3. Paul rants, I wish they would go the whole way and
emasculate themselves, Galatians 6. Paul labels James, Peter, and John as men who were, quote,
reputed to be pillars, Galatians 2. They, quote, seemed to be leaders, Galatians 2. They were,
those who seemed to be important, whatever they were, makes no difference to me. Those men added
nothing, Galatians 2. Are they servants to Christ? I'm out of my mind to talk like this. I am more.
Paul claims his summons to Jerusalem was to inform James and others of his mission to the Gentiles.
Paul boasted to his Galatian friends, he, quote, did not give in to them for a moment and, quote,
Galatians 2, 1 to 10. Elsewhere, Paul admits that he did give in to performing Jewish ritual.
The details concerning these events found in Acts 21, 20 to 26 make it a clear historical fact
that Paul was a liar. Paul lied to James about the message he preached and then lied about submitting
to James. Yeah, so, and then Paul repeatedly says in his writings, at least three different places,
he says, I am not lying. It seems that somebody had been calling Paul a liar on a regular basis,
and the Dead Sea Scrolls do have their key sectarian opponent, sounds exactly like Paul,
and they call him a liar. And then, but did Paul know these guys? Apparently he did, because Paul
testified to us in 1 Corinthians 13, that famous passage about love, that if I have all knowledge
and speak with the languages of men and angels and understand all mysteries, if I don't have love,
I'm nothing. But it sounds like Paul is insulting the overseer of the Dead Sea Sect, because the
Dead Sea Sect said that this overseer, to be the overseer, to be qualified to become the overseer,
you had to be a master of all the mysteries, and a master of all the languages of men.
What an extraordinary requirement. They had to master all the main languages they were exposed to,
and they had to be a master of all the mysteries. And then they said they knew the angels by name,
so that matches the angels part of it. It seems that Paul's talking about the Dead Sea Scrolls
over here. There's nobody else that matches that description.
No, so many red flags also come up. It just makes me want to once again relook at the Gospel
narrative in light of this, because you have Jesus calling these Pharisees brutal vipers.
Your father was a liar from the beginning. Now, we know this narrative, according to scholarship,
comes later. It's almost as if it's written after Paul. Is there something like a reference to the
liar here that is dealing with Paul, or is this been covered up, or is this really some
metaphysical kind of concept of Satan that they're trying to pull from and blame these Jews for,
that the Romans are kind of trying to make the fall on the Jews in this situation?
You see where I'm going with that? Yeah, I do. Well, we mentioned earlier how the first Gospel
Mark had taken the family of Jesus and made fun of them, how they took the name of Jesus,
the most likely historical father, Judah, and the name of his son, the name of his brother,
and made it the name of the villain. Jesus was apparently married to Mary Amni of Magdala,
and his mother's name was Maria, an unusual name for a Hebrew woman. It's a common name in the form
of Miriam, but not so common with the hay on the end instead of the name. This name, Mary,
which applied to both Jesus' mother and Jesus' wife, became the name of a prostitute in the New
Testament. So again, more denigration of everything. This, I love this. What you've just done has just
opened my mind up more to new ideas. Christopher, how do they get ahold of you, and what do we need?
I mean, I'm going to be putting your link in the description, because we've got to do more shows
with you. I really appreciate this information. We can go deeper. I've already looked at some of
this stuff, guys, and I'm going to tell you right now, there's a lot of source material he's put
in here. There's references to the source material, and he's all over the place with a lot of this
content. I love what you're doing here. How do people help you? Where do they go? How can they
contact you? If you give any contact information? Well, you can friend me on Facebook. You can
contact me by email potpoetryathotmail.com. That's P-O-E-T-R-Y at hotmail.com. Potpoetry,
all one word, at hotmail.com. Okay. We can go from there. I don't know how they do the PayPal
thing. We'll set it up. You set all that up. I appreciate that. Absolutely. And then by the way,
guys, if you want the PDF, I don't mind being the middleman. That way, I have my PayPal down here,
and I could send him the PayPal money, and you guys can get a copy of how many different PDFs
do you carry that you have that are written long PDF formats? Well, the one that has all the major
material is called Reconstructing Jesus, and that's the one that you want to do your real homework
with. But I have a couple of smaller PDFs that you can just have for free. One of them is called
Why Paul's Mythologization of the Jesus Story Was Political. Another one was Respectfully
Reconstructing King Jesus Based on the Study of the First Century Dead Sea Scrolls. Basically,
these are... I've snipped out stuff from my Reconstructing Jesus and pasted it together there.
Reconstructing Jesus includes more than just this theological battle of the Dead Sea Scrolls community
and Paul. It includes the story of Jesus' brothers and their role. It includes the
role of Jesus' healing techniques that put in a little bit of information on some of the evidence
for other antigens from other sources that... Yeah, you've got a lot of information. So what I'll do
is you guys send me a donation to Christopher Lawson, and what I'll do is I'll be the middleman and
make sure to email you these PDF formats so that you have the content. All you got to do,
when you go down to the description, go to the PayPal, you can just send it to Derek, and then
what you'll do is put under the comments section, your email, and I want Christopher Lawson's
PDF and whatever the amount is, and I'll make sure that you get all those funds.
Thanks for joining me, man. My pleasure. This has been very educational. I really enjoy this,
and MythVision wants to keep bringing you this content. So look, if you like what your host is
doing here and you like what the show is doing, feel free to like, subscribe, and also any coins
you guys give us in the PayPal, we try to use those to try and better the show and keep bringing
you the best. Thanks for tuning in. Be sure to subscribe, and hey, until next time, you never
know when we'll drop another nugget. All right, y'all. MythVision.
