Well, well. It looks like Baal beat Jesus to the punch with resurrection stories.
Seems like the god of storms and fertility was ahead of his time.
Rising from the dead, long before the Son of God decided to make a comeback.
Talk about stealing someone's thunder.
But let's give credit where credit's due. Both tells make one heck of a yarn.
I'm vindicating Dr. Richard Carrier wrote an article about dying and rising gods,
so I made this really cool documentary little video about this that I thought was interesting.
And he talked about how Inanna, this goddess was, you know, with all this power is kind of
lowered or defamed, if you will, taking off stripped naked, then made into a corpse,
then hung on a hook for three days and three nights and then is brought back to life or
something like three days, something to the same motif we see with Jesus.
We see it with Jonah. We see it with other mythologies.
Is that true?
Yeah. I mean, certainly that that particular myth about Ishtar and Anna I talk about in the book.
And it's very much her, the goddess's decision that she basically she wants to take over the
underworld. I mean, she's seriously kick ass ambitious goddess. I adore her.
But she's that idea of her sort of being stripped of all her divine, her bling, basically her
accessories. These were more than just kind of decorative items that worn on divine bodies,
a bit like high status human bodies. These were ways of making the body of rendering a body complete.
So by stripping off, you know, her head gear and her necklaces.
She kind of deliberately diminishes herself because she has to in order to enter the underworld.
But yeah, some people think that that's an example of a dying and rising god.
And it's not quite. I mean, yes, she's turned into a corpse.
I kind of like a hunk of meat, basically. So it's about her kind of debasement in very material
terms. The whole debate about dying and rising gods is really complicated. I think the main
ancient Southwest Asian pre-Christian ancient Southwest Asian myth that we can certainly
say is a is a dying and talks about dying and rising God is a myth, myth concerning Baal from
Ugrit. So late Bronze Age, Syria, the city state of Ugrit, the modern site name is
Rashamra. And in that Baal is defeated by the goat, the god Moat, who's the god of death,
who swallows him. Because death is a swallower, which is where we get all that imagery in the
Bible about, you know, when the ground opens up and swallows kind of idolatrous priests,
that's exactly what's going on there. The underworld swallows Jonah, the fish.
Yeah, exactly. Jonah being swallowed by the fish, exactly. But yeah, with Baal, he certainly dies
because his sister Annette and the sun goddess Chaps go into the underworld to find him and they
find his corpse. He's buried in a tomb. And then, yeah, about three days later, he is restored.
So that, I mean, and that is, like I said, there's very little in the Bible that's completely
original. I love this. Thank you for telling us.
