Derek Bennett and Dying and Rising Gods. Do they really parallel Jesus? Well,
you're going to want to watch this show. He's writing in a book that's coming out with John
Loftus on a varieties of mythicism Dr. Robert M. Price and a variety of other people will be
authoring in this book, writing articles in this book. Make sure you guys go in the description,
subscribe to his YouTube channel, check out his other stuff. He's got blog posts, you name it.
And we at MythVision now, we have a patron. You guys can go down in the description,
join the MythVision Patreon to help us do what we're doing. Make sure you subscribe, like and
make sure you comment down below your thoughts on whether or not Jesus is compared to Dying and
Rising Gods. The rejections we get even from non-believing scholars like Dr. Ehrman is,
well, those are agricultural deities or Jesus is authentic and Jewish in some way,
and it makes him unique and not compared to pagan myths. Watch this show. Tell me what you think.
And Derek Bennett's a character. So I hope you guys like this. Make sure you show him and us some
love. See you soon. We are MythVision. Welcome back to the show. Derek Lambert, your host,
MythVision podcast. Today we have Derek and Derek with you. What's up, Derek Bennett? How you doing,
brother? Doing pretty well, brother, yourself? Doing good. I'm excited because today,
from what I understand the first time in history since the start of this whole thing,
Christianity, you're actually going to disprove all these people who said that Dying and Rising Gods,
you know, they don't parallel Jesus. And you're going to approach this in a way,
I think, that no one else ever has. I think on air, if I'm not mistaken, you're literally going to
kill yourself and then bring yourself back to life so that everyone knows that it's true.
Absolutely. Absolutely. Oh, this is good. What I'll do for art.
This is awesome, man. So you wrote an awesome article. I briefly got to dig into it. And as
I started reading the very first, if you don't mind, can I read this intro here and let people get
a gist? Is that cool? I guess, Derek, whatever. It's your show. All right, Dying and Rising Gods.
Guys, how often have you heard it said by Christians and non-Christians or Christian sympathizers,
Dr. Bart Ehrman and others who are suggesting, listen, there's no parallel. There's no,
you can't compare Jesus to the agricultural, their approach, agricultural, dying and rising
gods that are out in the antiquity of the ancient world and can't do that. So here's what Derek has
to say in the very beginning. You guys will definitely want to be checking that out because I
suspect he's going to be publishing this at some point, fingers crossed, in the Journal of Higher
Criticism with Dr. Price. And I think he'll definitely do that. Ever since Sir James Fraser
published The Golden Bow? Is that pronounced correct? The Golden Bow, I believe. I've not
read very many books, but it's okay. I'd rather pronounce it correctly. Very poorly educated.
Me too. The Golden Bow in the late 19th century, there has been scholarly discussion and debate
over the existence of a dying and rising god mythotype. Frazier proposed that various deities
from antiquity were modeled after the yearly cycle of vegetation undergoing death and resurrection
in a symbolic portrayal of seasonal death and rebirth. The implications for Christianity were
clear. Thus, the topic has never been without controversy. Religious and even secular scholars,
including bestselling author Bart Ehrman, have challenged the concept on several grounds,
most notably among them. And these are four important, if you will, points that they'll
suggest when they're argued. Number one, the concept is wholly an invention of late 19th
and early 20th century scholars attempting to undermine the resurrection of Jesus. Number two,
among the gods who are said to have died and risen, none of them rise bodily or return to the world
of the living. Thus, they are not actually resurrected. Number three, some of the gods
in question do not truly die. Thus, they are not raised from the dead. Number four, Christianity
arose from a purely Jewish context, unsullied by pagan ideas. That's funny. From the surrounding
Mediterranean world, I shall examine each of these objections as they apply to some of our
strongest examples of dying and rising gods from the ancient world. I will also discuss the various
ties that these divinities have with the Judeo-Christian religion, demonstrating the plausibility
for their having served as a prototype for Christ. But first, let us begin with the notion that dying
and rising gods are a fabrication of late 19th and early 20th century scholars. Now, I don't think I
need to go on. I think we can talk for a while here. And if you want me to read more, I can always
read more, or you can read more. It doesn't matter. Probably a good jumping off point, though. Yeah.
So what have you found, Derek? Just freestyle with me here. What is it that you found with
people who make those claims? Are they absolutely wrong in your research? You're like, come on,
guys. Why are you making this case like that? Why are you not seeing it? Yeah. I mean, mostly you see
these claims being made by Christian apologists for very obvious reasons. You know, they've never
been comfortable with this idea of a dying and rising god mythotype. You'll hear them just deny
this till they're blue in the face. But every now and then, you'll also have secular scholars like
Bart Ehrman deny this just as vehemently for whatever odd reason. I believe it was in around
1987 that we're going back. This began with James George Frazier in the golden bow, which was written,
I want to say, toward the end of the late 19th century. It seems that he more or less introduced
this idea to the public. And just as I said in the article, it's never been without controversy.
You've had a lot of pushback. And Frazier, he might have been mistaken about some things as
well. There are more scholarly up-to-date sources and articles and researches on this. But,
but yeah, of course, there's a lot of pushback, especially from evangelical circles for rather
obvious reasons. It's just too darn threatening to the Christian faith to think that Jesus might
just be a cookie cutter example of these earlier myths and archetypes and so forth.
But the notion that this was something that was just invented whole cloth in the late 19th or 20th
century is nonsense. And I began in that portion of the article talking about how this was being
discussed amongst some of the ancients way back when, of course, you had early Christian apologists
like Justin Marder talking about these kinds of similarities, these parallels,
these parallels. Now, the interesting thing that the approach I take with this article
is rather than just do another dine and rise in God's bid, as you've seen done before,
I am specifically taking on the objections raised by Christian apologists and those like Airman as
well. But, but yeah, as far as far back as, you know, the second century, you had Christian
apologists like Justin Marder, Firmicus Maternas, Tertillian and so forth discussing these similarities.
And, you know, in the case of Justin Marder, he is, he's trying to send a message that, you know,
they're being persecuted. And he's saying, look, don't kill us. What we believe is not at all that
dissimilar from what you guys believe about various other deities who died and rose and
ascended to heaven. So, for the love of God, leave us alone. Stop killing us. And Christian
apologists are good at understanding the context there that that's what Justin Marder's trying to
do. And of course, what they say is that he is stretching a little bit in order to make his point,
which is not necessarily the case when you actually read the sources. I'm pretty sure the
ancients had a pretty good idea of what people believed back in the day. I would know better than
we might. Yeah. And then, of course, you had, was it Celsus, a second-century philosopher,
we know of his writings through, was it, I believe, was it Origen that was quoting him against Celsus?
I think it was Origen. And he's making a lot of these claims as well. The point is,
people were talking about this stuff very early on. They were noticing these similarities and
discussing these ideas, these parallels, these similarities. Whatever you want to say about it,
it's clearly not something that was just someone pulled out of their butt here in the 19th or 20th
centuries. It's, we've known about this stuff for a long, long time. So, it's just completely
fallacious to make this claim. It's absurd that this was just a vented whole cloth by
James Fraser or anyone else. You know, I actually, and I agree 100%. I mean, when you do read these
early church fathers, you know, yeah, they're covering their butt, you know, hey, don't hurt me,
like, guys, look, we're not that different. Right. And of course, Christians will say, that's just a
tactic they're using to try and like, you know, the martyrdom and the persecution. Oh my gosh,
they were so persecuted. Mandita Moss, I think, is a good book everybody should check out. But anyway,
I'm not going to say that they weren't bullied on the block. I mean, you're taking this narrative,
a Jewish concept, okay, Jewish guy named Jesus, bringing it into a pagan world of people. And
here you are, literally, and I love the work of like Dennis McDonald and others. I'm recently or
soon going to be having Cam as well. Cam Spears on the show. Dennis McDonald's coming on tomorrow.
Yeah, with the mimesis criticism. And so he's going to show, like, hey, these are definitely
Homeric epics and the Aeneid, I can't even pronounce the term, the Aeneid, I can't even
say it right. But the Roman version of the Homer, you know, stories, and we're going to show their
parallels and then go into like Hercules and show where Hercules, like one of the interesting
things I read in his book, interestingly enough right now, and I know this isn't dying and rising
God yet, but there's some implications, I think, that one can start to see Jesus does look very
much like these other mythologies. He shows where Hercules has taken the Cerberus, the three-headed
dog to Hades, and he literally, like, literally takes the story and applies it over here and shows
and Mark. And I'm looking over Mark and then of course he parallels Matthew and Luke. And
where the transfiguration happens, the same language that is used where Hercules is like
taking Cerberus down to Hades is similar language used where the transfiguration takes place and
he has Peter, James, and John join him, three, you got the three-headed dog, okay, and then you
have the three men, okay, and then they come up. So you can suggest, this is a parallelomania, Derek,
but when you start looking at the language and you see the overlap, it's hardly undeniable,
so the same can be said, I suspect, of dying and rising gods. And I think one of the big
criticisms, and I don't know if you cover this in this article, maybe I can get your thoughts on it,
and we can just, if you don't have any thoughts, it doesn't matter, we can shoot whatever.
One of the problems I find is they expect, unlike any, it's like when you get to Jesus,
when you get to the New Testament, you better treat this thing differently than anything else.
And so they expect this Jesus who died literally, who rose physically, according to them,
in the narrative, physically from the dead in a certain manner in which there is this,
this is unique and no one else. Well, what do you have to say to that? Because, I mean,
Osiris, right, they're trying to put his body back together, she can't find, well,
did she find his pecker or can't remember, but... I think she found everything but the pecker.
She had to create a magic one or something. Yeah, we don't know what happened to this poor pecker.
Damn.
What are your thoughts on that, though? The whole, like, they treat Jesus different. I think
even Dr. Carrier recently came on a show with a godless engineer, and Christopher Hansen and
other guys who are historicists, and there was a historian with him as well, I think Craig Evans,
I'm not sure, but he was kind of like poking at Dr. Carrier stuff, and Dr. Carrier is like,
the problem I'm finding is that people are treating Christianity as if it isn't,
as if it's so, like, new, radical, different than anything else, and there is no, it's not
built from other elements that make it what it is that parallel other religious views. So,
I don't know if I'm making any sense. Making perfect sense. Yeah, you know,
if you study Christianity, if you study the Bible, within the broader context of the ancient world,
if you familiarize yourself with the various myths and legends and philosophies and so forth
that were prominent back then, I mean, what you find is that it's precisely the kind of religious
faith that we would expect to develop from that world, from the dominant ideas of that age.
It's not going to have everything in common with everything else, just as any other religion,
modern or ancient, isn't going to have everything in common with every other religion.
But there are various aspects, there are various archetypes and so forth, that very much belong
to that time and place in antiquity. One of the things you discuss when you talk about
Dennis McDonald's work, comparing the Gospels to the Homeric epics, I'm not actually familiar
with McDonald's work, I'd love to get into that as well. But that just goes to show you that a lot
of these ideas that were prevalent in the Greek world, a lot of these ideas that were
that were dominant during the Hellenistic age, of course Christianity inherited many of those
of those ideas, many of those beliefs and so forth. It's funny how often we'll just kind of jump ahead
more or less to that fourth objection that Christianity came from this purely Jewish thought
world. And it's completely, you know, all Jews were just, they have horde anything,
pagan, anything exotic, anything that wasn't strictly Jewish, they just weren't having it.
Just that's such nonsense. You know, one of the things I find myself thinking is if Christianity
were so thoroughly Jewish, why isn't it just Judaism? Why in the world did Christianity ever
split off from its parent religion to begin with? If it's so thoroughly Jewish, as the apologists
try to tell us. But this idea that they were completely somehow anesthetized, that they were
just, you know, it was unthinkable for them to inherit pagan ideas or thoughts from the Greek
world is utter nonsense. There were indeed plenty of Jews during the first century who were opposed
to any kind of syncretism or taking part in religious practices or, you know, faith practices,
rituals and so forth from other religions from the Greek world. We know that to be the case,
but we also know that they were so up in arms about this, like the Maccabees and so forth,
precisely because that kind of thing was happening, because of the fact that there were so many Jews
who were attracted to these ideas that were streaming in from the Greek world and so forth.
For those who aren't familiar with the history, it was around the fourth century that
Alexander the Great conquered half the known world. And as a result, different civilizations,
different, like, you know, the Jews, Persians, Greeks, Romans, and so forth. Well, this would
probably be Romans, but it's because of Alexander the Great's conquest that the world became more
cosmopolitan. You had disparate cultures in contact with each other as had never been, you
know, not anywhere near to the extent that they ever had been before. So Jews were exposed to
Greek ideas and to ideas from other faith systems and so forth. And we know, we have evidence that
that is the case, that you had, of course, you had Jews who were trying to think, sorry,
in brain farting here. You're fine. You're fine. No, you had, you had, of course, Hellenistic
astrology in the Dead Sea Scrolls. We have examples of that. There were Jews that embraced the
platonic notion of an afterlife in terms of disembodied soul, a soul that is released from
the prison of the body. You have this in Philo of Alexandria. You have it among the Essings,
the Therapeutae, various, you know, Josephus speaks about these groups as well. This was a
Greek idea that many Jews inherited into their religious, into their faith systems. So it's
just not true that all Jews were opposed to or somehow immune to inheriting or adopting
pagan or Greek religious ideas. And that goes vice versa, I would suggest. I mean,
and I'm actually currently in works with some guys who are going to find examples. They're
currently looking to find examples. And if you're watching this and you have these examples,
comment down below. You can also email me mythvisionpodcast.gmail.com. And, you know,
is always open to emails for anybody who has any information that they can maybe supply that can
help us. But I'm looking for also in the opposite direction where pagans who were interested in
monotheism and interested in Judaism. I want that as well, because there's plenty of people that I
currently am in discussion with who think it's a one way street. They think that well, only the
Jews really like the pagan world and that somehow no one was welcome into the Israelite religion
and to become an Israelite except a biological descendant of Abraham. So this is a whole
another rabbit show discussion we're not going to get into here. But nonetheless,
I wanted to make a point about the whole dying and rising God agricultural aspect.
Dr. Robert M. Price debated William Lynn Craig years ago. It's a wonderful debate. I think someone
spilled a coffee on that floor and the coffee was William Lynn Craig. And Dr. Robert M. Price
brought his mop and literally cleaned the floor up. And the only thing I saw that William Lynn
Craig said, and at that time I did not know what I know now about a lot of things, was William Lynn
Craig laughed and used the 19th century argument and then says, this has been disproven. He made
it seem so ridiculous. You know, this is so absurd. And then, and then he turns around and goes,
these are agricultural dying and rising guys, he literally hit like your four points, like almost
like he had a memorized and it's like, you got a good memory, man. But Dr. Robert M. Price, when
he responded, he used examples, but he didn't say, he didn't like say, Hey, Christianity is also
agricultural in some respects. Okay, there are agricultural hints of dying and rising God type
theme there. Of course, if you take a methodology that the Gospels are history, you're never going
to go, you know, why are these parables talking about when, you know, you reap and you sow and
you, what's going on here? Or there are these teachings of what people call astrophiology or
star mythology. And they look in the Gospels and they see, and then we're looking at the Gospels
mainly, don't get me wrong. I mean, we can go to Paul, but Paul's different. We treat these fictional,
they are fictional. However, they do play a part in the religion of Christianity. And in the Gospel
narratives, it seems like Jesus at some points represents the sun. Like, there seems like this
weird, he's a type of sun, and the 12 could be the 12 months. And there's, there's this weird
theme. I'm researching more on this. But if this is the case, I could understand why you have seasons
and you have, it is not the season now, you'll know, here are the signs. He talks about things
in a way that if you do look at him with that respect, you might catch Osiris, you might catch
these other divinities. And it might not be as clear as, you know, in March, here's what's going
to happen. And then in April, you know, like, no, but have you done any research on that,
the agricultural stuff in any way or? Yeah, a lot of the, you know, several of these
dynamizing gods, for instance, Osiris, Baal, Dionysus, and so forth, they did more or less begin as
personifications of these various, you know, seasonal or, you know, vegetative or solar
cycles and so forth. The problem with this argument that comes from Apologists is that
they're only telling you half the story. They're just saying, Oh, but these were an agricultural
face. That's stupid. Well, no, your argument is stupid. You're just giving us half the story.
Yes, they may have begun as per font, you know, personifications of these natural cycles and so
forth. But they developed into something much more. Many of them became these sort of personal
salvation cults or mystery religions, as you may have heard of. And Dr. Price does a great job
discussing this and deconstructing Jesus, where he takes on the Apologists on this very same topic
when it comes to Dienerizing Gods and so forth, how a lot of these, you know, the vestiges of what
these cults originally represented in terms of the external, the nature aspects, those things
began to kind of fall away. They were sort of forgotten as time went on. And they sort of
evolved into something quite different, you know, just as, you know, as Baal or Osiris or Dionysus
may have once represented the crop cycle or the Nile or whatever. Eventually, they came to represent
man's sort of aspiration, his yearning to be able to overcome death, to be able to be reborn
spiritually or however so, so that he may live on, so that they may undergo these cycles,
sort of in continuity with nature. It's just that the problem with that argument is they're not
giving you the full story. They're only giving you half of it. And of course, you find vestiges,
just as you were talking about, of the same kind of stuff in the New Testament. As you mentioned,
Paul compares the whole notion of death and resurrection to the seed, which is planted,
and then sprouts anew. It has to die, you know, a natural body so that I can be reborn a spiritual
body and so forth. These ideas are there. They're going to argue, you know, you've heard the arguments.
It gets old, actually, it's like really, as you can't even concede even that far, that's just an
analogy. You're jumping to conclusions. And I mean, I totally agree with you, like why use those
examples, you know, if they're not pertinent, but they'd like to think that that symbolism is there
just purely as coincidence. And given that that symbolism was so inherent to these other, you
know, these other mystery cults and various pagan faiths, probably not a coincidence. I mean,
Christianity emerged within a Hellenistic milieu where these mystery religions were quite dominant,
were quite popular. You know, their argument would has to be, oh, it's all just coincidence,
this is just mere symbolism. I'm not buying it. I once used to buy that, anything to protect my
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Yeah, so I started looking at these things and started realizing,
you know, I think there's a lot more to this that can be discussed. And you came along,
and I saw a post by you on Facebook, which if you are not familiar with Derek, be sure to
go check them out. Do you have anything written like a book or something other than the recovery
one that you have? Or? I have a couple of blogs. One of them is Atheologica, which is simply
Atheologica.wordpress.com. That's where I tend to do more serious stuff. And I also have
Atheology, www.Atheology.wordpress.com, which is more of a comedic take on things. I tend to
think that I'm funny sometimes. That's where I do the sillier, you know, more distasteful stuff.
That's what we like. We really like that now. Now, when we've grown up, we're like, okay,
tell me nasty things. Tell me dumb stuff, you know. But yeah, that'll be down in the description
you guys. You can check them out. But Derek did this Danganrona God thing and I said, oh, snap. So
I also saw you discuss and I had to make a post on it. And I'm sure you saw it and realized, hey,
that looks similar to something I just wrote on it, on the mummy. Okay, the mummy being wrapped,
the idea of preservation of the body from the Egyptians. Did they have a physical resurrection
that they thought maybe down the road that they were going to get?
Absolutely. You hear this time and time again that, you know, the Osiris resurrection was purely
a spiritual resurrection that the Egyptians helped to change. They hope to get out of a spiritual
life after death. This is actually not true. If you read some of the most recent work from
actual Egyptologists, Mark J. Smith is a good example, Eric Homing.
You'll find that they did absolutely believe in physical resurrection. The reason why
the body had to be preserved is because they did believe that the body lived on in the afterlife.
Now, they also believed that the body could take on different forms and so forth, the con,
the bond, whatnot. We won't get into all that necessarily, but the fact of the matter is they
did believe in a physical resurrection. And so when it comes to Osiris, for instance,
you'll find that it's all about the physical reconstitution of the body. In fact, if you
want to pull that up from the article, there's, I think, three or four different examples.
Let's see. Pyramid texts. Okay, let me find it because I think,
which, do you know how far down in the list that you gave it to me? Actually, come to think of it,
Derek, I can probably just pull this up myself. That would work. The Egyptian Osiris.
Mm-hmm. Okay, I'm there now, but the New Kingdom period of Egypt saw its empire stretch or...
Yeah, I'm just going to read a couple of these from the Pyramid texts.
Osiris awakes, the language God wakes up, the God stands up, the God has power in his body from the
Pyramid texts. Raise yourself, O King, receive your head, collect your bones, gather your limbs
together, throw off the earth from your flesh, rise up, O King, for you have not died, literally
having to throw the earth off from his flesh. That's absolutely physical. Osiris, collect
thy bones, arrange thy limbs, shake off thy dust, untie thy bandages, the tomb is open for thee,
the double doors of the coffin are undone for thee, the double doors of heaven are open for thee,
thy soul is in thy body, raise thyself up. Lastly, raise yourself because of your strength, may you
ascend to the sky, may you have power in your body, so even as he ascends to the heavens,
he is doing so bodily. Between, you know, standing up, having power on your body, shaking the earth
off from your flesh, the doors of the tomb opening, this is absolutely a physical resurrection.
Now, what they like to say to this is that, well, you know, Osiris goes on to the realm of the dead,
thus that's not a resurrection like what you have in the case of Jesus, who actually comes back to
the world of the living, to earth. Well, you know, yeah, you can point that distinction out if you're
talking about the sort of the later development, the depiction of Jesus' resurrection in the
Gospels, but the earliest Christians seem to have believed in and preached a Jesus who was raised
directly to heaven. It wasn't this two-step process where he first raised the earth and then he later
ascends to heaven. In the Pauline Corpus, there's a great study on this by A.W.'s wife, the ascension
of the Messiah in Luke and Christology. You can also find Bart Ehrman espousing this same view and
how Jesus became God and various other scholars that among the earliest Christians, I think it's
Ephesians, talks about the mighty strength God exerted when he raised Christ from the dead and
seated him at the right hand of God in heaven. I'm paraphrasing there, that may or may not be
correct, but the point is the earliest Christians believed that Christ was raised from the dead
and that he was taken up directly into heaven. There's no mention of any kind of earthly sojourn
in between in the Pauline Corpus. Now, a lot of apologists will say, ah, ah, ah, but 1 Corinthians
15 discusses the appearances of Jesus to various people after his resurrection. Well, those appear
to actually be visionary experiences. The Greek word that is used there, it can actually mean either
a physical appearance of someone or just a heavenly appearance, like what you have with, you know,
the angels and so forth. This appears to be a visionary experience and the thing that tips us
off to the fact that that's what it is rather than being a physical appearance, is that Paul
includes himself in the list of those to whom he appeared. And what do we know, you know, from Paul's
experience of seeing the risen Jesus, whether you're talking about Acts or Paul's very brief
descriptions in his own letters. This was not the physical body of Jesus, but it was a manifestation
of the Jesus who had already been raised to heaven and was appearing to those on earth.
So this is not necessarily an earthly sojourn. These are, again, visionary experiences,
sightings of the risen Lord as he appeared already from having been raised to heaven. So
it really the distinction they try to make between Osiris and Jesus or any other divinity
who was simply their resurrection was simply a being raised bodily to the heavens. The distinction
is not there as far as the way resurrection was depicted among the earliest Christians. Sure,
it involves, it's different in the Gospels, but if Paul is able to say that Christ's resurrection
is indeed a resurrection, then we can say the same for Osiris, for Heracles, for Asclepius,
or any of the others, for which that was also the case. It's interesting you brought up 1st
Corinthians 15 and yeah, just dumbing that down. I mean, if the nature in which Paul's
visionary experience of Jesus is this experience that isn't literally earthly,
why equate your view to their view, that's one way of looking at it. And another thing that
Dr. Price did in that debate with William Lane Craig, which was way over. This is the problem
that I had with the Airman debate, okay? And I tell this people all the time, okay? Airman was very,
how do I put this? He was sharp and smart in his debate with Price. He dumbed down everything. I mean,
I'm talking, the guy made it so easy to understand what he was trying to say and simplified. He even,
in my opinion, made some assertions that to me are just not good arguments. Like,
the most attested for historical figure of the first century, because we have so many fictional
gospel writings about the guy. It's like, hold on, name outside sources. Don't use the actual
biblical narrative or the New Testament narrative as your sources to suppose we have no other person
more attested. Come on. So what I'm saying is, is he made arguments like an apologist would,
except he wasn't a believer doing it. And Dr. Bob was very technical, which made it very difficult
for anyone who's watching that to think that Dr. Bob may have won or Dr. Bob had really had arguments
over Airman's case. And even in the debate, which I'm glad he tackled other things more simply,
Dr. Price did. But he took First Corinthians 15 and showed that this is a creed. And that this creed
is a developed concept. This is not something that's like, oh, First Corinthians 15 was just
written here and it was already there. He showed that it had molded as well. So even if one wanted
to make the case, oh, look, no, First Corinthians 15, they could have still had a different type of
vision than Paul himself. And it still could have been called an appearance that Paul's just,
you can't make that argument or whatever. I think Dr. Bob does a good job of showing
and expressing the best he could, even though William Lynn Craig tried to make him look silly,
was that this thing was probably tampered with four or five times before we have it in the
version it is right now. And there's no telling that could be interpolated up to a certain point
in which this is a serious creed that Christians are already espousing about this movement.
And he has his arguments and other critical scholars as to why this is not original. And let
me tell you what, but just throwing it out there for anybody who might try to run there to make a
case to try and argue against it. Dr. Bob's been looking at this stuff for a minute and it's very
hard. Can you imagine going up hill like him? He has to argue very complicated cases. And of
course, he takes a different position on Paul than even Dr. Carrier. I mean, he thinks that these
writings are all they have evolved tampered with. They're none of them are authentic that
there might be roots to it that are, but the church has handled Pauline theology and has done
things. So it's just interesting, makes me wonder if there's a various sect of Gnostic concepts
that this movement over here, there's Pauline and then here's the Gospels and there's different
movements all at once trying to do something here. Sorry, I had to rub each other. No, you're
fine. Yeah, I'm with you in that I saw the very same thing in that debate. By the way, I love
Aaron. I think he's a great scholar. I love reading his works, how Jesus became God is one of the
recent books of his that I that I read. I love following him on social media. I think he's a
great scholar. I don't hate him. I just think he's strangely obstinate when it comes to
mythicism and of course, in the dine and rising gods as well, because he wrote about that topic
in Did Jesus Exists? You know, as far as mythicism goes, you and I had spoken earlier,
I'm pretty agnostic on the matter. I don't drive a hard line either way. I think those who
look at mythesis as though they're like flat earthers, you know, or Roswell conspiracies,
that's nonsense. They have some pretty, pretty solid arguments that need to be taken seriously.
They are not off their rocker. At the same time, I don't think anyone can be absolutely certain
that there was no historical Jesus, but I think you also find that kind of nuance
in most of the mythesis that you speak with, you know, and, and, you know, there are historicists
out there who I think make some pretty good arguments as well. But I don't see how you can
have any kind of see that you can dogmatize about it or be 100% certain on the matter as,
as airmen postures as being. That seems to be just as nonsensical to me, you know, to say that
you're just absolutely certain one way or the other is, is crazy in my view. Yeah, I think so,
because the evidence is so convoluted, it's difficult to, to do that. And then the historicists
like, dude, I entertain historicists on this channel. I just recently had Lena Einhorn on the
shore. She's like, I am not a mythicist and understand that. I'm like, yes, ma'am, like,
I'm not against it. Like, yes, ma'am, you know, you go ahead, call me Lena. Oh, okay. Okay. So she,
she shows, you know, that she thinks that Jesus was this the Egyptian. That was her recent point
that she thinks that this guy in Josephus that literally goes to battle against the Romans on
the Mount of Olives against the Romans and escapes the battle was the actual Jesus that
the Gospels and, you know, Paul's talking about that is based off. However, not to
rabbitroan and I'm trying to throw anything under the bus, but she says, she says that,
because I told her, like, I want to, we got to do more shows on this about where you conclude
this. And she goes, that's the problem. It consumes the other ideas that I have that are legit,
like firm, because what I do is I speculate after this. And I'm like, I'm cool with speculation,
as long as everyone understands this is purely speculation. She thinks that maybe Paul himself
is that Egyptian and that Paul is Jesus Christ. So technically, the, the, the character that we see
from the Gospels may very well, she says that she writes what's wrong with that idea, just like Dr.
Bob the Christ myth and its problems. He talks about what's good about it, what's bad about it.
She says, look, I write what's good about it. I write, she's scholarly about it, but
she thinks that Paul himself may be this Messiah guy and he was a rebel and then ends up
converting and being very pro, uh, Hellenized, very, very like peace loving, like, let's,
let's not wage war anymore. It's, it's an interesting theory, but when you use, in my opinion,
and I'm not saying this isn't, you know, true. I'm not saying what she said isn't true, but when
you use a Gospels after reading something like Dennis McDonald's, uh, Mamesis criticism,
it's so Homeric. It's so Iliad and the Odyssey. It's so the, the ainted. I can't even pronounce
the damn every time I try to say it. Um, it's so much borrowing from other stories that you have
to scratch your head in my opinion and go, is this like, where does the theology or the story
meet history and how do you know? And, um, I think that, uh, that's where the historicists,
some choose what they think's, you know, oh no, that's the real meat. And someone else who's a
historicist might go, no, no, no, no, no. That's still part of the fiction. This is the real meat.
And it all seems so arbitrary. Yeah. Yeah. So I have those who talk about Albert Schweitzer who
can't help, uh, as Albert Schweitzer talked about, they can't help but produce a Jesus who all too
often, uh, is reflective of them and their own ideas and beliefs and philosophies. It's as much
an exercise in psychology as is supposedly in history. Uh, so yeah, it's, it's, it's, it is,
you're right. It's so convoluted that, uh, it's, it's hard to know what to think. I mean, we can,
we can, um, I mean, of course we're, I'm here to primarily discuss dying and rising gods,
we can all point it on about, uh, the, uh, I don't know, the, the sort of, um,
strengths and weaknesses and mythos and so forth. It's, it's a fascinating topic.
And either way though, you could still have a historical Jesus and still suggest that the
gospels, which are very fictional, um, are still characterizing a dying and rising god theme and
even go so far as to say, Hey, there could have been a guy that was someone, you know,
even though it does lend its weight in other areas as well as more than just history,
historicity, it can lend its weight to mythosism, the dying and rising god theme.
Yeah. There are plenty of scholars who take that view. Um, you know, Marvin Meyer, who wrote, uh,
he was a, uh, an expert on, I think the Gnostic gospels. And he wrote a work called, uh,
uh, the, or the ancient mysteries, a source book of, of sacred texts. And, uh, he sort of,
um, you know, he gathered together, collected all these various, uh, texts and literature
from the ancient mystery religions and so forth. And that was certainly his view was what, you
know, that there was a historical Jesus, but he was DFI and embellished along the lines of the,
you know, the dying and rising gods and so forth. Of course, Rudolph Boltman, uh, that was a view
of his as well. There are plenty of historicists who still think that the dying and rising god
mythotype was, uh, was very much applied, you know, to Jesus, you know, to Christianity.
Um, one of the things you bring up, you know, what, again, I want to, with the Homeric epics,
all too often you'll hear apologists say, but no, that's, that's Greek. And you have to understand
Christianity was, was Jewish. It comes from Judaism. Right. It's, it's, it's a prime example of the
bifurcation fallacy. It's not an either or it's a both and it's both Jewish and Hellenistic.
A good analogy would be, you know, take the color green. Um, you know,
obviously that is related to the color yellow. If Christianity were the color green,
then Judaism, you know, could well be by analogy, the, the color yellow, but there's also some
blue mixed in there. And that would be Hellenism and, and these other exotic and pagan faiths and so
forth. That's what syncretism is. Richard Carrier is very good at talking about this. Uh, he's got
an article on dying and rising gods as well, which is very, uh, very informative. And, uh, you know,
this, this happened quite often in the past, um, where various, uh, civilizations would come
in contact with, you know, with one another. Sometimes one civilization would come to dominate
another and they would absorb, or, you know, of course, or share religious beliefs. Um, Judaism is
very much, uh, you know, the latter portions of the Old Testament are very much informed by Persians
Zoroastrianism. Uh, back in the sixth century BC, of course, the Jews had been taken into exile by
the Babylonians. It was, uh, Cyrus the Great and the Persian, uh, army who came in and, uh, you
know, they, they, uh, defeated the Babylonians and freed the Jews from captivity. And of course,
in the course of all that, uh, Jews were very much exposed to Persian ideas and so forth. So a lot
of these ideas that we find in later portions of the Old Testament, Ezekiel, Daniel, and so forth,
and then on down the line in the New Testament revelation, these eschatological, eschatological
ideas or in times ideas, um, you know, judgment, uh, um, you know, uh, at the, at the end of time,
resurrection, resurrection, resurrection of the dead and so forth, uh, cosmic dualism,
the battle between good and evil, God versus Satan. These were originally Zoroastrian or Persian
ideas. I even heard heaven and absolutely heaven now. And a lot of what tips us off to some of
these things, uh, the, the actual name Pharisee, the etymology there is probably Farsi or Parsi,
meaning Persian. That's probably not a coincidence. Uh, and Cyrus the Great has even spoken of the
messianic terms and Isaiah, I think 44 through 45. Again, they were able to venerate a pagan king.
There's no reason why they couldn't venerate their pagan ideas as well.
And, and here's where I'm going to make a big leap. Okay. And this is a big leap because it
shouldn't be taboo to talk openly about discussions of ideas without people pointing fingers or going,
how ridiculous. Okay. Um, there should be freedom of discussion of these things. And I feel like
there's not, and I feel like myth vision, uh, as much as people respect this, this program,
because we do allow for these discussions, but as, as much as you see the, the Persian king
being the messianic figure type, you see Josephus do the same for Titus, uh, Vespasian. Okay.
The father and his son as a messiah. Okay. A messiah literally like they did with Cyrus. Now,
if Josephus being a Jew, of course we know he was in their pocket. Of course he adopts the name.
Okay. Of course, you know, he's going to favor them, but it's, it would, to me, the idea that
there could be a Flavian connection in some way. I mean, the gospels get written around the time
Josephus is coming on the scene with his stuff. And there's implications in Luke and Acts that
obviously are borrowing from Josephus, in my opinion, and other scholars are suggesting
that then it wouldn't be too far of a stretch to say maybe there's something there as well,
because it takes place. The gospels portray, in my opinion, that the blame is on the scribes and
Pharisees. They're constantly blaming these guys. Never openly do I ever hear them go,
you Dan Romans, no, like it literally is always, but in real history, the messianic guys were thinking
these freaking pagans, you know, except there's this A and B. There's this yellow and blue,
I think, a collaborative method, in my opinion, between certain Hellenized Jews, Israelites,
if you will, and the pagan world, the Greeks, the Romans, et cetera, to collaborate an idea,
what we call Christianity, it's a mystery school type concept, in my opinion, that there could be
political implications here that tie into someone possibly going to, hey, there's your Messiah,
here's another king, just like Cyrus the Great, and here is the best patient,
I'm not closed off to the Flavian concepts at all, even though I know everybody goes, hey,
at well, parallel Romania, dude, I got so much respect for his book, even if I don't conclude
all his stuff, I don't think it muddies the water to be open ideas like this, in my opinion,
even though everyone wants to go, this is why mythicists, you know, they'll point it at one,
go, hey, he's the reason no one takes a serious or this and that, I'm sorry, I don't care what
anyone else thinks, I want the freedom of thought to think of these things and consider the ideas,
even though I may not agree with all the ideas, I still think he has some very good points that
need to be considered, in my opinion, like why does the coming of Jesus somehow happen right
there, it's supposed to at least, according to the Gospels, you know, here's the signs of the
coming of Son of Man, and here's the temple's gonna fall, this, this, that, it's talking about the
war, okay, we all know that, that's how we know it's written after in many ways, but his coming is
supposed to be with that, so if his coming is with that, well, how did he come? I'm sure it didn't
show up, nobody wrote about it, but Josephus makes it clear, hey, I saw these armies in the skies,
hey, the Messiah is Vespasian, he, Titus, he came in one, I don't know, I do that could be off my
rocker, I could be mistaken, I could be 100%, but I'm not closed off to it, I can tell you that much,
so I know that's not dying and rising God stuff, but it's freedom of thought, man, to think these
things and not be judged, and I think that's why MythVision is, is, we do what we do is, too often,
programs wouldn't host someone like Atwell, probably, or someone wouldn't host
other people who have a Flavian... It's like Price says, why not let a hundred flowers bloom,
you know? I mean, even the scientific method, you know, works by developing various hypotheses,
that's the only way we're going to make any kind of new discoveries, and, you know, in the end,
maybe these things will bear themselves out, maybe they'll be backed by good evidence and
argumentation, or maybe they won't, it's sort of like natural selection in a way, but, you know,
unless you are a fundamentalist or an evangelical, you really shouldn't object to developing these,
these, you know, alternative ways of seeing things. Price is great when it comes to
touching on this very topic, you know, about just, just developing different models,
applying them, and just see how they work, maybe it will, maybe it won't, but, you know,
that's what free inquiry is all about. Dude, he wrote that article back in the day, not an article,
he wrote a review, and his thoughts of, of Joseph Atwell were not pretty, okay, back in the day,
not at all. Well, until recent, yeah, until recent history, he has retracted that kind of idea on
Atwell, even though he doesn't agree with a lot of it, he has become more sympathetic toward the
idea that there may be some possible, he doesn't say it is, possible validity, and he also has
done that with the Creating Christ book, where these guys believe that, hey, look, there's more
political implications to the New Testament than you would think, whereas Rome would conquer people
and assimilate, or the Greeks, they would take the Egyptian god of Apis and Osiris and Serapa,
so crap. So we have a Serapis-developed religion. Well, what if Jesus is just a Judaism and their
blend of pagan deities, which mimesis criticism, in my opinion, would be an interesting thing to
see how the Gospels literally are recreation, a better version of Odysseus, of course, and the
gods, you know, Zeus and Hercules, and literally Jesus does everything better than them. It's no
joke. When you watch it, you go, holy crap, man, when he tries to calm the storm, Odysseus prays,
okay, and I don't even know if the god listened in the account that it parallels to the to the
storm where Jesus is sleeping and the gospel and the disciples are like, we're gonna die,
like they're freaking out, Jesus wakes up and he goes, do you have that little faith?
Calm, storm, calm down, and literally calm down. In that story, for example, he does exactly what
the gods did in the other story. And in some cases, this is how far the writers of the Gospels went,
in some cases, they even make Jesus not only equal and do the power of the gods,
they make Jesus make the gods look bad, because he does the more merciful kind thing rather than
killing the enemy, he legitimately shows mercy on the enemy, which is weird, because that's not a
Jewish idea, in my opinion, I'm not going to say it doesn't happen. But when you read the Old
Testament, man, you see like fire, brimstone, like hardcore on the enemies of God. But if you look
at stuff like Julius Caesar, and I only throw this out there because there's there's possible avenues
in this in this vein, Julius Caesar showed mercy to his enemies, he literally forgives his enemies.
And I don't know. But what if there's some overlap in that? I don't know, I don't know,
you know, keeping an open mind. I don't know, Yahweh was pretty merciful in the Old Testament,
wasn't he? He wasn't even merciful on his own people, even though they were like, hey,
have mercy on us, oh God, and David, have mercy on us. I don't know if that Eminem song that you
don't want to mess with Shady, I always sing, you don't want to mess with Yahweh, because Yahweh
will kill you. Yes. Yeah, you know, that the whole calming the storm thing that was a very
Hellenistic motif, you had that with, I think, Pythagoras and Empedocles as well. And what
you're talking about that sort of competitive assimilation is something that's very well touched
on by M. David Litwa in a work called Iusus Deus, the ancient depiction of Jesus as a Mediterranean
God. And my work, my article, very much relies on and is influenced by his work as well.
And he talks about that, you know, a lot of these, you'll find these various differences
between the pagan stories and the Christian stories, precisely because what the Christians
were doing is, yes, they were assimilating the stuff, but they were showing why their God,
Jesus, was actually better. So, you know, you had, of course, you know, all these miraculous
sort of divine conceptions and so forth, where who was, I think it was Zeus.
He was, Perseus was the offspring of Zeus and a mortal woman. What was her name,
Danae, who had been a virgin until, of course, Zeus came down upon her in the form of golden
shower and impregnated her that way. And therefore, Perseus was the offspring of a high god and a
mortal woman. You have various others of these kinds of stories. But, you know, the apologists
say, but see, those weren't virgin births, per se, because the, you know, the woman who had
previously been a virgin did have some form of sexual interaction with the deity. And so,
there's therefore no, you know, no case for comparison. Well, the hell there's not. It's
still, you know, some kind of demigod or divinity who's the offspring of a high god and a mortal
woman. Only in the case of Christianity, they make it somehow purely a virgin birth because
there was no, there was just the foreshadowing of the Holy Spirit or, you know, so to speak.
And again, when we talked about the dynarizing gods, most of them, they may have some kind of,
like, you know, Romulus or Hercules or even Osiris, of course, they'll make an appearance
to, you know, their followers after they've been raised. But for the most part, they're, you know,
once they're bodily raised, they're simply taken out to heaven to be among gods, which was the,
seems to me have been the earliest depiction of Jesus's resurrection. But later, he is made to
actually do one better and he actually comes back and visits people and makes appearances physically
before he is into heaven. You know, these were different ways of just taking the competitive
assimilation, you know, excuse me, a competitive assimilation, taking these pagan stories, but
improving on them, making, you know, their god do one better to say our god, Jesus, is the,
he's the real deal. He's, he's the, I don't know, the cream of the crop. And they do it to the
Old Testament too. So what I find funny is like people who want to make continuity, like, like
strict continuity, like the New Testament truly is this continuation of Old Testament ideas. It's
truly, like, I don't think they realize that, and I think Jews do catch this. I think Jews a lot of
times read and they recognize they're just trying, it's literally not, like, I've had Rabbi Tobias
Singer and of course he's Orthodox Jewish, but there are others that I've talked to that go,
listen, this Christian thing is kind of a mockery to Judaism, honestly. It's an elbow, it's an off
shoe, it's nothing in the vein of like strict Old Testament ideas. And Jesus himself is out,
he literally outdoes not only these other deities from other gods that we can clearly show with
mimesis criticism, like they show parallels of these other stories, he does the same thing
to the Old Testament carrier. He literally, the same way like the Gospel of Luke takes a crap on
Matthew, Mark and John by saying, this is the best gospel. Okay, that's exactly what Jesus does to
the entire Old Testament. He's like, literally, oh, Elijah did that, watch this, Moses did that,
watch this, I can do better. And it literally makes him the, like you said, cream of the crop.
Anything you can do, I can do better. Exactly. And he, and he literally ones up everyone and
everything. And, you know, people will go, well, well, not necessarily, but I think you're right,
I think you're right, bro. And this whole dying and rising God theme, I found ideas of dying and
rising God in Joseph's story. But it's not necessarily like the story doesn't say dead,
and then rose, but the concept, he gets, you know, Dr. Price and I wrote an article that's
going to be in the next, the next, the Journal of Higher Criticism called Osiris, Jesus, and Joseph.
And Joseph was thrown into a pit, of course, and he quotes the pit as death. But I would also
suggest, of course, that is easy to see that that that would be death. And that could easily
be what that is. I would also suggest though, that the death in the narrative could also be him
in the dungeon, okay, where he gets sold by his brother, Judah, Judah is the one who comes up with
the idea in the Genesis narrative of Genesis 38. They sell them off to the whatever they are.
They go into Egypt, Audifer's wife, he goes, he's in charge of the dungeon, two guys have a dream,
one's a wine bearer, one's a baker, literally like he's like, I can, I can interpret this dream.
He tells him in three days, your head's coming off and the birds are going to eat you. And the
other one, he's like, look, you're going to be back where you were with Pharaoh. And when the guy goes
back in three days, he's like, don't forget about me, which is do this in remembrance of me, because
I can see the sacrament there. One guy's the bread, he's baker, and the other guy's the wine,
the blood, there's a flesh in the blood. And then, hey, don't forget about me, do this in
remembrance of me, Jesus said, and boom, he ascends at some point to the right hand of Pharaoh,
the same way Jesus ascends to the right hand of God.
You know, that sounds to me very resurrection type language in a way in the narrative, but it's
super disguised, whereas it's clear in the story of Jesus or Osiris, they died, you know, and then
they're risen again. So yeah, yeah, a lot of you can tell a lot of what they've done is they've taken
various stories that were just, you know, were widely known, and they've taken the elements and
just sort of rearranged things to make it suit, you know what I mean, whatever the message was
for that particular story. And that you remind me, one of the things I talk about in this article as
well, because I feel like we can only just kind of skim the surface of it, that you'll find there's
a lot of sources in that article, there's a lot of things that I draw upon. But, you know,
not just, not just Hellenization, you know, actually having a major impact on Jews of the
first century, you know, like Phyla of Alexandria or Paul of Tarsus, very much a Hellenized Jew,
I think you have to be sticking your head in the historical sands not to actually acknowledge that.
But even before then, I talked of course about Persian Zoroastrianism,
you know, let's talk about Baal among the Canaanites. That's a culture that obviously had a major
impact on the Bible, especially the Old Testament, because let's face it, the Israelites were simply
an indigenous clan of Canaanites to begin with. It's a great work by Israel Finkelstein and Neil
Asher Silberman, the Bible unearthed, and this has been verified by various other archaeologists
and historians who talk about the fact that, you know, there's a lot of stuff when I began
studying this stuff, Derek. I just kind of took for granted, you know, even though I was skeptical
of Christianity, I assumed there was probably still an exodus from Egypt, conquest of Canaan,
and so forth. Turns out not even those stories are true, that, you know, the Israelites were
essentially just this indigenous tribe of Canaanites all along. It was after, I guess, the fall of
or the ancient dark ages or whatsoever. I can barely speak.
You're fine. My first time doing this in the wild, guys. By the way, vaping is good for you.
Now they talk about how the fall of the Canaanite city states that they're sort of
emerged this new culture and this new identity within the Canaanite peoples, and of course,
one of those was the Israelites. You know, the Canaanite religion and mythology and so forth
was part of their heritage. So, of course, you see these, like, you know, the Old Testament God El,
or Elohim, or El El Yan, you know, that was the chief Canaanite God. He had, I guess, 70 sons,
Yahweh and Bal were among them. There's a great passage in Deuteronomy where it's very implicit
there that Yahweh was one of the sons of El. Later on, they were simply merged for the sake of
streamlining the pantheon and introducing monotheism, the worship of just one God, or monotry, if you
want to get technical about it, worship of one God among many. But you see the impact of Canaanite
religion and mythology. I have a great book called the Archaeological Study Bible, which was
actually published by Zondervan. And there are various articles, even in this apologetic work,
that have to more or less admit some of this stuff. We see, I think it's John Day and Yahweh and the
gods and goddesses of Canaan. He discusses the impact of the Bal myth on various Old Testament
passages, like in Hosea and so forth. You see that Yahweh was the cloud rider, just like
Bal was the storm god who rode among the clouds and so forth. Hosea's sort of allusion to resurrection,
very likely informed by the myth of Bal. And then, of course, Hosea was what came to inform the other
resurrection passages in the Old Testament too, which are few, but you have, I think,
Isaiah 2619 and chapter 12 verse 2. Canaanite culture and the myth of Bal is already sort of
interlaced within so many of these Old Testament passages, these works in the Hebrew Bible.
Is it any surprise that Bal, who was the son of El, or son of God, who was
vanquished death, the death monster Mott, and was raised from the dead, the risen son of El,
who ruled henceforth as this sort of messianic figure who saw, you know, peace and prosperity
from, you know, henceforth? Any coincidence that Jesus has many of these same mythological
archetypes or motifs? You know, probably not. So when we talk about Bal or Osiris or any of
these ancient pagan figures, a lot of apologists try to suggest that these are figures that are
just so, that it's so far fetched because these are figures that are so far removed from history,
from these alien, distinct cultures, exotic face. No, they weren't. This stuff was well known to many
Jews of the times. They were popular for centuries. So this is stuff that would have been very well
known to them. The same with Osiris. You know, Egypt ruled Canaan from, I think, what, 16th to the
11th centuries BC. We're talking about half a millennium. You'll find ancient Egyptian artifacts,
even statuettes of Osiris and the Levant. He was known there, absolutely. And even the
archaeological study Bible talks about, I think it's Psalm 78, that the narrative with God and
David as his earthly regent very distinctly parallels a similar narrative about Osiris and
Horus. Again, Osiris was known to many Jews of the time. It shouldn't come as any surprise. These
were not alien, distant cultures. And of course, you had, you know, Canaan, Israel, Palestine was
sort of, you know, it was located there, sort of right within the trade routes of these various
other countries and civilizations, the Hittites, the Canites, the Mesopotamians, and, you know,
the Egyptians as well. There's no reason to think that this stuff was just, you know, completely
alien or foreign to them. It was not. That's the problem. That's the problem I'm finding is some
of these guys will suggest that these gods, ideas, concepts, these different religious, cultural
deities, Baal, Osiris, Molek, whatever, they need to be contemporaneous, absolutely contemporaneous
to the Jesus movement. So for example, they would not, they did, I've heard this from Christopher
Hansen and others, and I haven't done a lot of reading on this, but they act as though if it's
not like pertinent and relevant, contemporaneous, exactly at the time of Jesus, it weakens the
argument of trying to say these are utilized, unlike where Dr. Price is like, look, this stuff,
this Osiris story, these, these Greek and Roman, they are absolutely pertinent, and it is in the
air everywhere. And so it's not like this was like, oh, because Osiris is a 2000 year old story,
there's no relevance to it here in the first century. It's almost like they would say, hey,
if we're going to make an argument, we have to look at like, dying Caesar with his cremation,
the ascension to heaven, or we have to look at Apollonius of Diana, because he somehow parallels
somewhere around the same time as Jesus, or you need to look at sources like Philo,
because it has to be right there in that, that time, if it's not in that time, don't use it.
Well, that's, that's misunderstanding that there may be serious influence of these other stories
current in that time, no matter how old they are, they might still be alive and well,
and used in the culture, like you said, that developed Christianity from the start,
which I find amazing. I'm so glad you brought up that point, because that is precisely what
they would argue that is precisely how they would object to this. They'd say, okay,
maybe that stuff was known to Jews, you know, centuries beforehand, but you know, it couldn't
have been, it couldn't have been influential upon, you know, first century Jews, you know,
so it's, you're wrong, it's an odd argument. Well, the fact of the matter is, you know,
Josephus actually mentions Osiris, he knew who he was, he was a first century Jew,
and you have these Egyptian eschatological or end times motifs in the book of Revelation,
you have the resurrection of the dead, you have the lake of fire, you have the second death,
the recreation of the world. These ideas are very strongly reminiscent of ancient Egyptian
eschatology. Don't ask me how I got there, the fact of the matter is it's there, it's like picking
up a can of Mountain Dew and saying, there's no yellow five in this, well, it says in the bottle
yellow five, it's there, I'm sorry. Right. It's in there, don't ask me how I got there, but it is
there. The same thing with Baal, we have, you know, Baal's battle with Lothan and so forth,
those sort of ancient mythic motifs or narratives are alive and well in revelations,
but you know, also, so if this stuff could have been available to the, you know, the minds consciously
or unconsciously of Jews during the first century, writing the book of Revelation,
they certainly could have been, you know, in Paul's epistles or the Gospels as well.
No, I totally agree with you. And I get why they're trying to be over critical, but
I think they're over, they're just over emphasizing some things and not really,
not really considering, you know, that that they might have more influence than they're
giving credit. And another thing, like, if the Old Testament we can find clearly does this,
okay, we could show like there's borrowing, we could see that they're influenced obviously
from surrounding cultures or Astrianism, Egyptian mythology, you name it, Baal, Molech,
whatever, even Ashra, concepts of Ashra being married to Yahweh, etc., even though we just,
let's not go there, because I like Michael G. Deaver, he does a really good job. And I think even
what is her name, she's a Methodist, she's a scholar, but she's, she does agree that I think
at one point, Ashra was married to Yahweh, but any who, the point of making, I guess, is if the
New Testament does borrow from the Old and it does, nobody's denying that. And the Old Testament is
truly, you know, sucking in from other cultures, how can you not say that the authors of the New
Testament may not also know or may not realize, hey, by borrowing there, I'm actually taking this idea,
and this idea obviously they would be aware maybe came from other cultures as well, or they saw this.
So, so what gets me is that syncretism is really the core of what the New Testament is doing. It
truly is a syncretistic thought where a lot of people, if you focus, if you take a magnifying
glass, it's really easy to see if you really want, you know, oh, just you, just Jewish Judaism. Oh,
wow, that's amazing. And if you do the same, if you're a Greek reader, I've heard a lot of people
say when they read the New Testament, they read it in Greek, they feel like they're reading the
Homeric epics, they feel like if you read it in Greek, you can almost read the pagan stories
and just, oh, wow, this is 100% pagan. And you can see, you know, what you want to see,
because it's there. Because they're both there. Yeah, they're both there. Your scholars are really
astute at detecting these things too. If you'll read, if you read like Haya Maccabee or Samuel
Giza Vermesh, they are particularly astute and very much a good position to be able to distinguish
what's Jewish and what seems to be non-Jewish, or at least, you know, was not part of,
of, of, later Judaism, Judaism of the time, if you can even call it that, because Judaism was by
no means a monolith, even in the first century, that's a whole other canon. But they're very,
they're especially astute at picking up on this stuff. And I was going to go somewhere else with
that too. Oh, in terms of Osiris, the soteriology, the idea that, you know, the resurrection of
Osiris was sort of the, in him and his image, ancient Egyptians, they saw the promise of their own
resurrection to eternal life. And this idea that just as Christ, you know, just as Christians are,
are identified sort of mystically with Christ in the ritual of baptism, you know, so too,
Egyptians were sort of identified ritually with Osiris, via the ritual of embalment,
the sort of, as Earl Doherty calls it, this parallel interaction between the man and the
God, between the devotee and the divinity. You find that very much in the ancient Egyptian
sort of theology, so to speak, pertaining to Osiris. SGF Brandon writes about this and it's
brilliant. You know, I once, I had an apologist recently say to me that no one familiar, no scholar
familiar with the myth of Osiris and the myth of Christ, would actually make a comparison. Well,
that's just not true. SGF Brandon was probably the, he's the best I've read. If you read The
Savior God, Comparative Studies and the Concept of Salvation, or Types of Redemption, Osiris,
Band, Myth and Magic, he was particularly astute at recognizing these hugely coincidental
similarities in terms of the soteriology, the salvation schema involved, dying and rising
as the deity himself had done. And of course, there was something else you've mentioned,
when we talk about syncretism, of course, you know, we're often talking about cultural diffusion,
none of us are saying, because you find some bad stuff out there as far as, you know, comparative
religion goes to. There are some very pseudo scholarly arguments. It's funny, I first began to
learn about this stuff in the works of Acharya S, reading the Da Vinci Code, things like that.
And I was intrigued by it, but I wanted to know more. And so I read Christian apologetics as well,
and found out that a lot of these arguments were bonk. But then a lot of this stuff was
actually pretty legitimate, and reading scholars like Price and so forth, and actually familiarizing
myself with the primary sources and reputable scholarship on the matter, a lot of the stuff
I found to be legit. But we're not talking about ancient Christians picking up the gospel of the
pagans, right? And then just copying stuff or plagiarizing the stuff verbatim. That is not
remotely what we're talking about. Anyone who tries to say that is basically just
that's a straw man. Yeah, absolutely straw man argument. And that's, of course, why you don't
find these stories to be, you know, these myths and so forth to be completely identical. As Litwas
says, you know, comparison or similarity does not assert identity. Yeah, of course, you know,
it's the whole nature of influence that things are going to be changed, but you're going to be able
to detect a certain sort of family resemblance, so to speak, or ideal types, as Robert Price calls it.
You know, and a lot of times this was done via cultural diffusion, you know, maybe there might
have been Christians who'd never even heard of ball. But naturally, the sort of death and
resurrection archetypes that stemmed from the ball cult came via the Hebrew scriptures. That
would be an example of cultural diffusion. Maybe some of these eschatological or in times ideas
from ancient Egypt came via the Persians who also believed in the sort of judgment, divine
judgment at the end, and a lake of fire. You know, that's cultural diffusion. We're talking,
that's exactly the kind of thing we're talking about. We're talking about things that are just
they're organic, they are natural. It's everything in our human everyday experience
tells us that these things happen. It's inevitable. It's part of the human condition.
And if you're an apologist who argues otherwise, you're just, I'm sorry, but you're not dealing
with reality. Is it wrong of me to say that now that I know what I know about it and looking at
these things, there's not only freedom in that idea, but I actually, now that I've left Christianity,
rather than just being a troll, like a hater of these things, knowing this actually for me personally
makes me find beauty in it. It's like, I can run to things and dude, I can poke holes. I can make
fun. I can, but like if knowing that this is history mythology, this is like how our humanity
has taken amazing stories that were relevant in their time. Yes, people killed people as sacrifices
to the gods. Absolutely ridiculous. But nonetheless, that's because we know what we know now and we
live when we live now. But this is things we did. The crop cycle's not coming. Go grab Jimmy.
Dude, don't do that. I bet you anything grow in a thousand years. Mark my words. This is going in
history and probably someone else has already said this shit, but I've never heard anyone
else say it, but I suspect in a thousand years, a couple thousand years from now, that civilization,
if it's still here, if coronavirus doesn't wipe us out, I hope it does. You're so silly. I suspect
that our prison systems will be so barbaric of an idea to humanity in a couple thousand years from
now. They will look at that as human sacrifice in a sense, because we'll know the science of
understanding that isolation and the way that you think you're actually rehabilitating people
by putting them in strict conditions like that. I don't want to rabbit-troll into my whole personal
opinion, but I do not think that it works. And I think we'll find that out that when you kill your
little kid to a god that's invisible in the sky to have crop cycle come, that also doesn't work.
And then throwing them like the Aztecs did in a small pond and then drinking from the same pond
also doesn't work. So we're learning as humans, but I find beauty. And I think if Christians,
and it's just my heart goes out to them because I was a very, very, very, very fundamentalist,
very hardcore believing Christian, that if they saw this and understood what we saw,
the freedom of that, the beauty, and there's a connection to humanity on a whole other level.
Now I can respect you regardless of your cultural aspects, your religious ideas, whatever, like I
can now see it and go, hey, I think that's a great story. But look, you get just as much good out of
that. Come watch the movie Thor with me and watch Loki. You can get Jesus Christ out of that, you
know, like let's go check him out. Just my heart goes out. That's all. I think there's more beauty
in it now than being like so brainwashed and drinking the Kool-Aid. And I'm right, you're
wrong. And then outsiders, if you don't view like me, your post-mortem situation is going to be
absolutely different. Like once you see these, you got to go, damn, how did I get it right?
What was my luck? You know, I think someone says like, what is the luck that I'm born in a certain
time in a certain place with a certain God and it's the right God? It just, you know, come on.
One, the cosmic lottery, so to speak. Yeah, yeah. No, I think it's so funny, the moment you mentioned
sort of seeing the beauty in all of it, you know, once you do recognize it for what it is and see
that it is sort of this sort of this beautiful kind of patchwork quilt, this sort of melting pot.
I mean, if you look at the ways that, you know, say, for instance, Paul of Tarsus fused a lot of
these Hellenistic ideas with Jewish ideas and ideas from the Greek Old Testament and so forth,
you recognize how unbelievably just mind-bogglingly brilliant it is. Say what you want about him,
but the man was absolutely a genius. So the way these things are fused, there's something
almost majestic about it. Right. But I thought it was so funny, the moment you said that,
because I instantly thought of Charles Darwin. Yeah. That was sort of the way he saw evolution.
It's like, okay, maybe this is not the providence of God, but there's still, once you see what it is
and once you see how it works and how it all came together, there's something majestic about this.
There's something beautiful about this. And I feel the same way, you know, it is kind of the way that
this all sort of merged together and developed, the sort of, again, this pastiche, so to speak.
There is something, you know, that you can acknowledge is amazing about it. And, you know,
as Joseph Campbell could have told me one, there is beauty in sort of the underlying message,
the metaphorical wisdom of a lot of these myths as well. Take the mystery religions, you know,
or Christianity for that matter. The whole idea of dying to the old self and reemerging as something
new and better and stronger, you and I can identify with that. I know we don't want to touch on that
too much, but on our past addiction issues, substance abuse issues, and being able to overcome that,
you know, I don't think that I've literally died and rose, but to see it in that sort of metaphorical
light and to understand that myths do have that kind of power in the message that the underlying
message, metaphorical wisdom, there absolutely is beauty in that, no doubt.
Yeah. Well, to me, it's narrative. I think someone put it boldly like,
in narrative concepts, you know, we all have a story. We love a story. Humans love a story. We
love narrative. And, you know, if it can somehow apply to us, because we are creatures of selfishness,
we are creatures that really enjoy it. As long as it, am I included in this? Okay. So when we
come up with a story that includes this somehow, it can be powerful. And I think there is some
wisdom that nobody's just, I don't think anybody's discrediting that there's wisdom in there. And
I'm going to say, and this is just my opinion, even the guys like Aaron Ra, the anti-theist who
literally go out to poke holes at the Bible, if you had a beer with them on the side, which I
don't because I don't drink anymore, but I'm giving you an example. If you hung out with these guys
and you sat and talked to them, I guarantee you, they'd say, Hey, look, there's definitely some
conventional wisdom, but there's also harmful things that don't work in this. They're not going
to be fruitful in the context we live in today. So if someone comes along and says, I want to
pick this, but I want to throw that out because that's not relevant. Cool. Okay. I think his
mission is to get people freed from the system. But if you asked him, Hey, man, do you think like
laying down your life for your best friend to help protect him? Even if that means dying on their
behalf? Do you think that would be like a noble thing to do? Absolutely. He'd go, dude, that would
probably be one of the greatest things you could do is to save your kids, your wife, your friend,
your family, whatever, to protect them and die in the process. That's a hero. That's a hero. And
what did Joseph Campbell say? The hero with a thousand faces. So it's like, I can jump on that,
I can dig that, but don't tell me I need to call a God by name or I need to pray to this particular
deity. I tend to look at humanity and I don't have that. I take what I like and what works and what
I feel and I literally toss the rest, man, because I think honestly, the moral principles that the
biblical narrative has is, you know, people want to say God gave these things. No, I think we
implicitly as humans evolved knowing, Hey, that hurt. I don't know. It's an evolved idea of morality
and concept. So we're rabbit rolling out of dying and rising gods right now. But there, how do people
get ahold of this dying and rising God article? Which link do they need to go to? Is there a link?
It's actually something that's going to be published in a forthcoming anthology
by John W. Loftus and Robert M. Price called, and I hope they're okay with me mentioning this,
if not we can head it out, but it's called Varieties of Mythicism. Just as there's, you know,
I think it was Varieties of Religious Experience that was written by, oh, I can't think of what
his name was, but it's kind of a classic, I guess, but Varieties of Jesus Mythicism. That's
going to be that. That's the working title anyway. And the article will actually be
in that anthology. And like I said, I'm sure we just scratched the surface of what's in there,
but that's perfectly okay. That's all I really wanted to be able to do. And I don't mind that we
got off on some of these tangents either because they're good stuff. You're going down in history,
bro. That book's going to be fire. I already have told a few people we've had Dr. Price on,
and I'm going to have John W. Lofton on soon as well. I'm currently reading Why I'm an Atheist
of his, and then he's also melding me. His big, he's got another book. I got his signed version,
of course. So he's sending me that, and I can't remember the name of it, but in there there's
the magical Jesus concept. And I want to research that because I plan on having Robert Connor come
on. He's going to present his magical Jesus. I don't know if he's a historicist, but I think
he is. And he thinks that if there was a historical Jesus, he was a magician, which we got it, dude,
we got to let these guys come. And guys, go support Derek. Do you have a Patreon or something
where people can help support you? I don't have a Patreon just yet. I'm just now in the process of
kind of getting things rolling as far as all of my creative endeavors and so to speak. I'd like
to even begin my own YouTube channel at some point. I have some friends, equipment that I'm
borrowing right now to be able to do this with you today, but I'm kind of in the process. But
you can always check out my website, my blog, atheologica.wordpress.com. Also,
atheomity.wordpress.com. I do have a brief sort of memoir called Addictus, A Non-Believer's Path
to Recovery, which you can find either as a paperback or as an ebook on Amazon as well.
That'll be down in the description too. And if you get the YouTube channel,
I'll put it down below. It won't take you five minutes to make the channel. Even if you don't
have content, people can subscribe so that when you do drop the content, it's nothing. If you
already have a Gmail, go on YouTube and it's easy, man. Just set you up one. And then of course,
anything else in the future, we'll be having you back on, of course, especially when the book
drops. I think we're going to have to do more shows on this. This is awesome. And then also,
the last thing I want to ask you is to make sure that you go ahead and die and rise again
right now, because you said you would do it for everybody to prove that it's not that awesome.
Where did he go? Oh my gosh, he was dead. Oh my goodness. Are you the gardener? No,
I'm just kidding. I did it in less than three days. You definitely beat me.
That's awesome, man. Well, thank you for joining me, man. For real, Derek Bennett, everybody.
Thanks for having me. And don't forget, we are MythVision.
