This guy was God, right?
He was God, Neil.
Well, we know that guy's the real one.
Well, it's like, why isn't he the real one?
There were people being worshipped as the savior.
Just for me, seems there was a guy who, just like Augusta
Caesar, is deified, apotheosis, everything.
The guy's like doing miracles.
It's like, what is going on?
This is almost like somebody read somebody
or somebody knows something from the same sources.
And if you're saying there might have been a guy,
you might be an apologist.
Welcome back to the Gnostic Informant,
and you are about to attain true noses.
And with Derek Lambert from Myth Vision Podcast today,
just having a hangout, checking out the chat,
see what everyone's up to today.
Just wanted to go live.
Ended up live in a while.
But I want to start off talking about mythicism a little bit.
It's a hot topic on both of our channels.
Dude, you're not kidding.
We both went through the same path
and I think this might be a normal path for some people.
So if you're in the chat and you think this,
you agree with this, let me know.
But this is what happens.
You go into fundamentalism and Christianity.
You think everything in the Bible is true.
It's all 100% factual, historical.
And then you start to actually look at it critically.
And once you start doing that,
you see hardly any of it's true.
It's all basically myth.
I think there's a process that I think you skipped.
Just to point out, I just want to emphasize,
and you tell me from right,
it wasn't that you went from it's all 100%
absolutely true to I'm being critical
and I'm throwing it out.
It was like, maybe I don't understand what it really meant.
And like you go through this phase of like,
there's secret meanings and it's really astrology
and it's this and it's that and there's all these codes
and it's like, no, God's even more complex
and much deeper than that.
And like, you go through this almost hippie-ish
interpretation stage, if that makes sense.
That's a good point, dude.
Cause you almost, you almost have to like,
you get to this point where you think it's still,
there's still something about it
that it has to be masterfully done.
So there has to be some sort of conspiracy behind it.
It has to mean something.
There has to be something going on.
It's still profound to me because I felt it, right?
So then you start going into like pantheism or Nazism
or all these different outlooks,
Elgarizing everything.
Like you said, astrophiology.
And then you start putting all these pieces together.
You start getting into Roman providence and all these,
I mean, like, it's true to all of you.
There's truth to everything I'm saying.
Right, right.
There's something.
I wouldn't go full-blown in any of those areas,
but there's a little bit of truth in all these areas.
But then you start to see like,
then you get to this final stage where you think,
what if it's all myth?
And then you're like, okay,
so how much of this Jesus character
do we know from history?
I don't know if that's a final stage,
but I get what you're saying along this road,
because it's like-
What I'm saying,
when final stage as in how you get in the mythic system.
Right, okay.
So what happens is, some people stay here,
I didn't stay here,
but what happens is you end up saying,
or let me just speak for myself.
I end up saying, okay, what do we know about this guy?
Has he written anything down?
Is anybody around him?
Does he have any parents or brothers or sisters
that wrote anything down?
Is there any stones and inscriptions?
None, zero.
Everything's written about him a generation later.
Exactly.
And then you start to wonder,
does he even exist?
And it's a natural-
Bro, there's nothing wrong with thinking that way at all.
I mean, bro, that's perfectly well said.
And then when you look at the things
that are supposedly mentioning him,
they're not clear, or there's something suspect,
or there's a problem,
a testimony in Flaviano, for example.
Like, it's only one dude I've ever run into,
Dr. Samuel Zener, who tried that I'm aware of,
that's somewhat contemporary here,
that is making the claim that it was not interpolated at all.
He claims it is authentic as it is.
So he thinks Josephus in some sense was a follower,
or at least agreed with this character, Jesus.
But mind you, it would probably be more
in the Jewish kind of understanding of Jesus,
not in what we think of as in Christian,
maybe a bit anachronistic,
but yeah, like most people see, what the heck is going on?
So when we start quoting things that are extra biblical
to try and assume, here's a guy,
like there is some things that can explain that away.
You could try to say, look, they are aware
of what Christians are saying about their guy,
and therefore they're getting already propaganda
of Jesus being spread by Christian messages.
So this is where the historians
get their ideas from, Tacitus, for example.
Or you see where I'm going,
a Suetonius is probably aware of Tacitus.
So here you have this dilemma,
where you're like, this guy,
we're trying to find his fingerprints.
If he was God, right?
This guy was God, right?
He was God, Neil.
And now he's a vapor that you can't even find.
And you're wondering like,
I mean, like when we're looking at the text,
we know there's mythology there at this point.
We already discovered those problems to see,
yeah, this is suspect.
We're already finding things in parallels, if you will,
in the world, not saying Xerox, Zeitgeist Xerox copies.
But there's definite virgin births
that go back hundreds of years before Jesus
and contemporaneous.
And you go, dude, that didn't happen.
So when you see that happen over and over,
that didn't happen, that didn't happen.
That's probably not true.
That's probably not true.
What is, it's easy to go and just go,
the guy probably did not exist.
But we usually didn't say that.
Like for me, it was like, man, Jesus couldn't have existed.
For a minute, I kind of went all the way
and was just like, you can't, there's no way.
And you know what?
There's some truth to that as well.
Right, and here's the thing.
When you look at the passages in all the gospels,
not talking about Paul, I'm talking about the gospels,
the stories that are written about him,
you start to see that a lot of it
is a retelling of Joseph, for example,
being sold for 20 shekels, Jesus being sold.
Or not even just from the Old Testament,
you see things from the Greek world,
giving, being retold as Jesus.
And when you take all of that away,
when you subtract all the stuff that you notice
that's retold, what are you left with?
You left with a God named Jesus from Nazareth,
who has a mother named Mary, who was crucified.
That's it.
That's the skeleton story that we know
that's Jesus of Nazareth.
I mean, there might be a couple of extra details,
but I'm saying for the most part,
that's what Josephus gives us.
That's what, that's all we really got.
Other than that, it's pretty much a story as a tribute.
She's just another Galilean Jew, right?
According to, when you strip away the mythology, right?
You have a Galilean Jew who must have made an impact
on a small cult of people.
And he was saying some wonderful things to their ears.
And for whatever reason, this movement did not go extinct,
even in the accounts of Acts, right?
Which are late, which are late.
I'm just going with critical scholarship.
Just like our dear friend, Richard Carrier,
when he wrote on the historicity,
he spent like multiple chapters out the gate,
just saying, let me go ahead and make this clear.
I'm not even engaging with the Christian fundamentalist
world.
I'm assuming we're critical scholars here
investigating the claim, which I appreciated
because then you cut out all the fluff.
You know, you're dealing with straight up art.
What is the evidence actually saying
instead of the propaganda?
Let's be grownups here.
Let's be grownups at this point.
We're done playing the game of, well, there was an empty tomb
and he probably, did he rise or not?
Like, come on guys, like was there a tomb, right?
These are questions, valid questions to ask.
That is a valid question.
We're beyond, did he rise?
At this point, we're thinking, well, what could be history?
What is myth?
And some go to the full myth side
and you can't blame people.
You can't blame people for doing that.
Especially when you look at how well documented
this period was.
You have plenty of the elder traveling around Judea
in the city of Caesarea, in the city of,
he's all over, he's talking to the Essenes.
You got Philip, or Philo, Philo Judeus.
He's writing in the 40s and the 30s about Son of God,
about the Messiah, about the logos, all the same concept.
He's looking for the Messiah.
You got all these other, you got Seneca.
You got all these first century writers
and they don't know who he is yet.
So I'm not, that doesn't, so my untrained,
non-scarly mind, when I find out this information,
my mind is he can't exist
because they would have wrote his name down.
That's what I first thought.
That is actually his legit first reaction
to all of these historians not mentioning Jesus' name.
But what I learned was,
and now I'm starting to flip over to how I got out of them,
it's not that I don't think myth is incredible anymore.
I started listening to people who are really trained,
who went to school for eight years, 10 years, 12 years.
On a specific.
Yeah, who have PhDs in New Testament studies
and just criticals, all this stuff.
And it's like, there's other people,
this is what Bart Ehrman told me,
it's not just other people from that time period
who we know live, Simon and Perea, for example,
Judas the Galilean.
Did the historians write about those guys?
No, we didn't, we had to wait till later on
for people to remember those names,
he put them in the Talmud and stuff like that.
That's a good point.
I'm like, well, Jesus is a little bit different.
I mean, this is this guy, they claim that he rose.
Right.
You would think this guy would be all over the place
because of all this stuff.
But this could be a thing where he progressively gets more
and more, more godly, more, he goes from a guy who died
to all of a sudden, oh, the temple did fall.
He predicted that.
And all of a sudden all these myths get written about him.
Like there could have been a progression there.
Oh yeah, well, that's what Bart Ehrman's
How Jesus Became God book exactly.
That the whole thing's about, he does a series as well.
And if anybody's interested in an audible,
listening to his Yale series on this,
he gives a lecture, a 10 part lecture,
explaining the development of demigods
in the Greco-Roman world and how he went from a demigod
and then evolves through the gospel narratives
to where he's like pre-existent deity.
Okay, now I know someone might go,
but Paul thought in his Philippians, him,
that he was pre-existent.
But I also know, if you listen to James Tabor,
he talks about that that isn't a pre-existent him,
but this is a hymn about him doing what Adam,
the first Adam didn't do.
And so he does think that Jesus had an apotheosis.
This is strange because if you go in Josephus,
Josephus talks about how Moses never died.
What?
In the Tanakh, yes he did, right?
It talks about how he dies, he goes off,
he couldn't enter the Promised Land, he dies.
James is told that you're never gonna go there.
He does not die to Josephus.
Josephus says he had an apotheosis and was ascended on high.
So when you read that, you go, hold on,
it wasn't just him, but you think in the gospels, right?
Here is Moses and here is Elijah, this transfiguration scene.
And you go, hold on, is the gospels also in the same vein
as Josephus on the stock?
Like you kind of wonder,
here is this apotheosis of Jesus.
Some wanna say it's a,
they wanna argue for a different argument
on what's happening in this transfiguration.
I'm convinced that this is an apotheosis.
There's a great article online showing
how this is a deification,
a kind of a hint of what's going to happen
at the resurrection with Jesus before it happens, you know?
But shh, don't go telling anybody.
Why not?
Don't you want everybody to know the truth?
Not so much in Mark.
And then weird things happen in Matthew and Luke,
everything's a little different, but an apotheosis.
So Paul believes an apotheosis is happening.
So here's my question.
Here's a Galilean Jew in the Middle East, right?
In an area that is maybe somewhat documented,
but very few, if anybody is literate,
as Bart Ehrman talks about in this region,
there's not a lot of that happening here.
If he gets a mention,
we're looking at the New Testament
that's highly theological, we have a hard time trusting, right?
This is one of the reasons
we became a Memphisist to begin with.
He, I think, does get a mention in Josephus.
But let's just pretend
for those who are skeptical of that to begin with,
is John the Baptist a real man?
And I know Memphisist who went so far
to say John the Baptist didn't exist.
They want to argue he didn't exist.
I think he's more easier to find in history than Jesus.
How?
He gets one mention in Josephus.
And there are people who want to try and just, yes,
one mention in Josephus, bro.
I mean, it's this little paragraph.
I'm not gonna say, doesn't his tomb located too?
I'm not certain that his tomb is located,
but I wouldn't be shocked
if someone venerated something saying this is the tomb of.
Right, that's true.
I'm not forgetting about, there are people who say,
that's David's tomb, that's not David's tomb.
The Christian church has multiple nativity scenes for Jesus.
Like, you know, like, so what?
Doesn't mean he existed.
But he gets a mention in Josephus,
a passing mention about how he ends up getting killed
because I think he called out, what was it?
He called out someone or something.
There was some infidelity in a marriage or something happened.
I can't remember, but they killed him.
And they didn't kill him in the region
because they were afraid of the revolt.
So they took him out somewhere in the desert
where they could kill him and then prison him.
So they didn't end up getting, you know, in trouble.
Yeah.
My point is, you look at, like we just did our video
and the one that you're editing now,
which we've clapped on, on Augustus Caesar,
he has an apotheosis.
He has prophecies of his birth.
He has all these things.
And we have this document.
All the same checkboxes, check of what a Messiah figure
is supposed to look like.
Right.
Not just in Judaism, it's all over the place.
Right.
There's like, it's like a superhero in Marvel or DC.
They have to have certain things.
They have to have a costume.
They have to have some weird story
of how they got their powers.
They have to have an arched nemesis, all those things.
But they're all different.
Spider-Man doesn't look like Batman.
He's red.
He's black.
They're all different in their attributes,
but they're similar when you take a step back,
look at the macro of the whole thing.
That's how we compare these Messiah-like,
Savior-like figures, which, by the way,
if you look at Alexander the Great or the Diadachi Wars,
there's so many soturs.
So this is the Sotur.
And Antiochus the Sotur.
Ptolemy the Sotur, they're all Saviors.
And by the way, I just found this out.
I was just reading Diodorus Sicily.
And when Demetrius, who was the son of Antiochus, died,
he was Demetrius Sotur.
They built a tome for him with a temple
that says the Sotur, the Savior.
That's what he was worshiped as a god.
Well, we know that guy's the real one.
Right.
It's like, why isn't he the real one?
There were people being worshiped as the Savior.
And the name Demetrius in Greek means Demeter's son.
Demetri Eos, Demeter's son.
So a guy named Demeter's son is worshiped as the Savior.
Yeah, these are people that we would say existed.
And then it goes on when you look at Augustus Caesar.
His name was not Augustus.
Octavia, but he was given the name Augustus, Julius Caesar.
And here is this guy who claims to be a descendant
in line with Romulus, who claimed to be a descendant.
If I'm not mistaken, it was Venus.
And not only that, Alexander the Great also,
who was born of a virgin priestess.
They do the same thing that Luke and Matthew do.
And they make these elaborate genealogies
that probably aren't real.
But they just do it to like,
he's the son of Alexander through this,
through his mother and through his father.
He's the son of Venus and this.
Invented genealogy and so what?
Right.
So while this can be evidence for someone who's a mythicist,
I think I get the gist you're going with the show
is just to kind of like wrestle with the ideas
of what makes us think the way we do,
what makes us tick, you know?
For me, if there was more literature,
I'm throwing this out there for the mythicist, my friends.
If there was more literature of this whole celestial sphere
crucifixion in the heavens, demons up in the sky,
fighting and literally killing and crucifying people
up there, instead of Josephus, real historians,
Philo, real historians who actually talk about real people
being actually crucified, Jews who are actually out here
trying to cleanse temples and get killed for it
and stuff like that, like Judas the Galilean and others
for that he got in prison.
For me, I'm saying, if there was a lot more
of that whole weird wonky stuff in the heavens
and not just like the Ascension of Isaiah or something,
I would be like, yo, this seems to me to be more plausible.
Right.
But I don't find that the most you get in my opinion,
unless you interpret Paul's Philippians hymn
in that direct pre-existent argument,
which Christians want to do it for certain reasons.
But mythicists also, they seem to have to have
that kind of view too, because if he's not pre-existent
in Paul, then how's the angelic celestial figure
pre his coming to birth?
Paul says he was born of the flesh, born of a woman, right?
Well, they'll argue over that Greek term
and say it means manufactured.
And this is where like, most Greek scholars
will interpret that particular thing and say,
born of a woman, like this is just,
he's mortal is the point, he's mortal,
but he becomes immortal.
And that's the whole point, you know?
So I don't, I don't see personally,
like how he's mortal in the third heaven.
It's hard for me to get the idea that,
like he comes down a certain point in heaven,
he's like from the sperm bank of David,
like God like collected David's seed
and somehow made him manufacture Jesus in heaven.
That seems, and I'm just being honest, more ad hoc.
There's a lot more moving parts.
And I just don't see all of the data that tells me that.
You can run the Enoch, you can run to other areas
to try to piece this thing together.
And I'm not knocking you for it.
Just for me, it seems there was a guy
who just like Augustus Caesar is deified apotheosis,
everything, the guys like doing miracles.
I mean, Augustus had a eagle fly down,
steal the bread out of his hand,
realized who this guy was as a child,
flies back and like softly places the bread back
in his hand, cause one day that same eagle
is going to come back and take him off into Mount Olympus
where he's going to be deified into the heavens.
What?
You know, this is a guy we know really existed, so.
And you know what?
James Tabor comes to mind for right now,
not just him, but when we talk about the Talmud,
which was written way later,
well, it wasn't actually written way later,
it was put together way later, it was compiled.
These are sources from earlier.
A lot of them were first,
some of them are first century sources,
early second century sources,
like in the, what was the, not the,
not the mission, maybe it is the Mishnah, but whatever.
One of the part of the Talmud is from sources that are early.
And you would think if Jesus was a myth,
you would think there would be something in there
to contesting this guy.
No one knows who Jesus is, where did he come from?
Who know why?
No one knows, you don't see any of that.
There's no contesting of his historicity.
I think that's a really good point.
And also the Bethlehem and Nazareth thing,
I know Hitchens is credited for this,
but this is a good point.
And I know a lot of mythes will say,
well, it's the branch, the Netsar.
The word branch is Netsar in Hebrew.
So he's from the Netsar, he's from the branch.
It's like, okay, that's sort of,
it's like, I guess it's, you could be right,
but it's like, it's really a stretch.
You're really stretching to make that work.
And there's no other evidence,
there's no other scripture that's like,
he will come from Nazareth.
Like if you had that, then I'll be,
okay, maybe I'll still be able to do this.
But then the thing, the fact that you have a guy
who was born in Nazareth
and the Messiah is supposed to be the son of David
in Bethlehem, you could see where there's a conflict
and they're trying to make it work.
It's the same thing with John the Baptist,
baptizing Jesus and Mark.
Because you were being baptized
for the forgiveness of sins.
And not only were you being baptized
for the forgiveness of sins,
which he's supposed to be the one
who comes to take away everybody's sins.
So is he sinless or not?
But the other point is, is that you're a subordinate.
If you're baptized by someone, they're your leader in history.
This is historical.
So Mark either didn't care
and didn't see a problem with this
because his demigod Jesus could have done anything
and been subordinate to any human figure on earth.
But Matthew might have had a higher Christology
and is already going, we can't have,
that makes Jesus like not as high on the totem pole
that we want him on.
So we can't, or is it John?
I can't remember where it is.
Matthew has him born, son of God.
So forgive me.
He goes back to a birth instead of him being son of God
and like declared, this is my son at his baptism.
And early church Christians believed in that whole,
he became son of God at baptism.
That this is the idea.
So it's like, what the heck?
And the last reason why I'm not a mythicist
and I think the biggest question from mythicists is
if they're willing to interpolate in Josephus
in the antiquities book 18,
the testimonium flavianum,
and then later on in the book 20 or whatever it is at the end
where he's talking about James being the brother,
if that, why wouldn't they keep going?
Why wouldn't they do other stuff?
Why wouldn't they write elaborate?
Like they could have really went
and made it more believable than just a couple of texts,
couple of lines here and there,
which makes me think that they're actually,
and Mason pointed this out to me,
is that when you look at the testimony in Flavianum,
it actually does fit really well.
I used to be the one of the people who was like,
it's just, it's in the middle of nowhere.
It doesn't even make sense.
If you take it out, the text still makes sense without it,
which is true, but Josephus is talking about Pilate already.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Already in the subject of Pilate,
already in the subject of shit that Pilate did to the Jews
and crucifixion is one of them.
So that kind of does fit.
Right.
And then finally, the last thing I'm gonna say,
I'm gonna go to super chats now,
unless you want to.
No, no, no, no, feel free.
The final thing is this, for example, in football,
I don't know if you're a football fan or not,
when there's a penalty or not when there's a penalty,
when there's a touchdown that gets challenged
by the other coach,
there has to be enough evidence to overturn the play.
So in the situation, I'm totally using a weird analogy,
but think about this.
In the situation of Jesus,
is it possible that he could be a myth?
Yeah.
Other sense possible. Of course.
But is there enough to overturn and say that I could prove
definitely that he doesn't exist?
No. No, and vice versa.
Right. Which means, and then the final thing is this,
it's like a Pythagoras or other people in history
who might not have existed,
but their ideas actually make them up real.
Jesus becomes that.
So even if the mythuses are right,
at the end of the day,
there is now a Jesus of Nazareth, whether we like it or not.
Two things.
I just wanted to find something for our audience.
When you said myth, you mean complete myth.
Not that there is a mythosizing going on
or mythologizing going on.
And then number two is, I think we both agree
that that Jesus, the mythology doesn't exist,
just like that Augustus Caesar, okay?
That is described in Suetonius' lives of the Caesars.
That Suetonius, that Augustus is myth,
meaning that Augustus described from there were omens
before he was born and then the star rose,
literally a star rose from the place he was being conceived
in the bed with his mother who had a serpent that slid in,
which was a God and the father knew not to live with.
Like, bro, it's like, it's like, what is going on?
This is almost like somebody read somebody
or somebody knows something from the same sources.
And so we know that didn't happen.
So we're in agreement.
So while everyone gets, you know,
don't get all caught up in a,
ah, no, I can't believe you don't see the truth.
Dude, the truth on this matter,
I don't think can be absolutely solved either way.
But there are reasons to lean in directions
depending on what you're looking at
and how you favor those particular interpretations
of the evidence.
And for me, it's much simpler.
The historical position being mythologized for me
is a lot easier.
It's just, it's all around simpler for me.
And it's not that important to,
a lot of mythists, and I'm not saying a lot of them do this,
but just a few maybe, it's important to them
that he has to be a myth or else,
I don't know, it's like a big deal if he's not.
Like, mad.
If you're saying there might've been a guy,
you might be an apologist.
Right, if he existed, so what?
What does it, what does that matter?
You know what I mean?
It's like, he doesn't have to be a myth.
Doesn't matter at the end of the day.
Yeah.
Cause all we have at this point is a theology,
a Christology, we have a mythologized Jesus.
You have to cut away,
you have to Thomas Jefferson, the text.
And even then, right?
Historicists can't agree on what is really
what the guy did or didn't do or who.
And you know what?
While mythicists love to point that out
and they're right,
Historicists can't figure it out.
Just read the newest varieties of Jesus' mythicism.
Check out in the beginning,
this is the latest, greatest right now in mythicism.
I have the book here.
John Loftus is the author here.
Edit it if you want, at least.
And co-authored with Robert Price.
If you read the various forms of mythicism,
they can't even agree.
Is it a Roman provenance?
Is it a complete Astro theology?
Is Jesus a mushroom in the legros in here?
Like I'm not even kidding you,
Michael Loftwood, Joseph Atwell, of course, Bill Darless
and he does the Astro theology stuff,
Earl Doherty, Stephen Holler.
And these are just some of the top,
there are other mythicists out there.
They can't agree on what is, what isn't, you know?
And anyway.
Yeah, I think Carrier is the most convincing.
If you're gonna go, like, I'm with you.
I'm with, like, if you're gonna go with somebody-
I have this book on the historicity of Jesus.
And that was when I was really,
when I read that book, when I first got that book,
I was convinced that there was no guy.
Like he had the book.
Well, yeah, I was too.
But like I said, I got to the point where I said,
okay, I can't answer the Nazareth thing.
And also, I don't have enough to be,
I'm not an expert, first of all.
So I have to go with the scholars, tell me.
And I don't see enough for me to go against
what the consensus is.
And I know the consensus are mostly Christians.
I hear that.
But there's a lot of them that aren't Christians.
And they don't, they're not,
they're not just gonna go with the flow.
There's a lot of scholars that are,
have a lot of really interesting positions.
I don't wanna say fringe,
but like they go against the grain in a lot of areas,
but they're not mythicists.
And they would be if they felt that way.
Yeah.
There's proof out about that.
They're not being forced to think that.
Yeah, the evidence, like I said,
what are you looking at and what are you favoring?
Because this is what my journey
over the past two and a half years on myth vision is.
And in fact, I might, I should probably publish a book
at some point about how I've understood the scholars.
I've had so many and why they take paths they do
and why interpretations go in the past they do
and what the conclusions seem to be and why.
And I'm telling you, the reason we're having
these conversations and why there are people
super chatting right now and people who are probably going,
Derek and then people are going, Derek
and then people are going, Neil
and people are going, Neil is because the data
is so all over the place.
Yeah.
It is a jigsaw puzzle in what pieces you seem
to want to favor as evidence.
Those are the things that become relevant.
And I mean, dude, for me, I just came to the conclusion
I'm like, probably a guy.
Yep.
So damn what?
