does the New Testament teach Trinitarianism? No. No. No. You want answers? I think I'm entitled.
You want answers? I want the truth! You can't handle the truth!
Warning to those who are triggered easily because of heretical or scholarly ideas
you may not want to continue past this point. Jesus and God, are they the same? Are they equal
or is one subordinate? Is our understanding of monotheism a bit anachronistic or have we been
influenced by particular versions of monotheism that don't allow for weird ideas to be the case?
Dr. James F. McGrath is joining me today here on MythVision for the first time. I don't know what
happened at the beginning of this video with my video quality, but it gets better throughout the
episode. You're not going to want to miss this because it gets into Christology. Was Jesus God?
Did he become divine? And if so, what does it mean to have multiple powers in heaven subordinate to
a father? Is the Trinity true? Does the Bible really teach that? Well, just by saying that intro
you're automatically a heretic. Maybe I like being one. Let me know what you think of the show,
drop a like, comment, and don't forget to join MythVision's Patreon to help us out,
join the community. We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast on the host Eric Lambert,
and today I have a special guest. He's never appeared on MythVision before. That is Dr.
James F. McGrath. How are you, my friend? I'm doing very well. Thanks. How are you today?
Doing really good. I had stumbled across your work. Thanks to another colleague. Dr. James D.
Tabor said, you need to talk to him because he knows the low Christology, high Christology issues
and the development of monotheism and like all this stuff. He's like the next done. And I was
like, oh snap, I need to talk to him. And of course I reached out. So I'd really appreciate you joining
me. Wow. I'm honored by that description. I don't know if you know, my first book was actually
my doctoral dissertation. It was on the Christology of the Gospel of John. And that was done at the
University of Durham in England with Jimmy Dunn as my doctoral supervisor. And so very much influenced
by him. And if I'm, if somebody, if he or one person thinks I'm the next Jimmy Dunn, I will take
it. For me, it's quite a compliment. Absolutely. I do want everybody to know a little bit about
your background and please elaborate where we are lacking here. It's such as a Clarence L. Goodwin
Chair in New Testament Language and Literature and that you are professor of religion at Butler
University in Indianapolis. Interests include New Testament, early Christianity, the Mandians,
religion and science, and religion and science fiction. Did we miss anything? I'm sure you
have a CV that's as long as the Bible somewhere. I think probably everything that I'm interested in
is at least could be squeezed in under those categories. Some of them fit better than others.
Well, some of your works here in particular, Jesus, What Did He Learn from Women? That is
something that we are going to have to dig into down the road, if that's possible, theology and
science fiction, all of this fun stuff. The one I think we're going to kind of tap into a lot here
is probably related to the only true God book here. Okay. So I recommend everybody who's watching
to go get a copy of my guests books. This gives them reason, of course, to want to come back onto
myth vision. Of course, that's an incentive. I want to get into this at some point too,
the barrel of Jesus' history and faith. I talked to John Dominic Crossen recently,
he thinks that Paul doesn't have a tomb in mind. He thinks when Jesus is buried,
he just thinks it means like he's dead, dead. He died for real. And then of course,
he has an apotheosis, he thinks, ascension, which doesn't require the tomb idea. But I'd love to
dive in with you because Dr. Tabor begs to differ, thinks there's a temporary tomb here.
It may have been a temporary holding place, especially during holidays and then things.
So this is what I love about scholarship is I could sit back, eat popcorn and watch you argue
with each other. Yeah. Yeah, you could probably get those three of us on and we'd have an
interesting conversation. I bet. And we'd all be like way over our heads. So I figure let's
center our conversation around the New Testament, though you might have to go back and kind of
describe things leading up to it. And I have a debate coming up really soon on my channel
between an Apologist Christian who is a Trinitarian and an Apologist Christian who says Jesus was
just a human only always. I guess it's the ancient Arianism versus Trinitarian views.
And are they both right or are they kind of both wrong? And how do we know,
you know, how do we know? So how do you want to begin that kind of conversation?
Well, maybe maybe I could start by talking about how I ended up doing what I'm doing,
because monotheism and Christology, how the depiction of Jesus in the New Testament relates
to the idea of one God in Judaism as it existed in that time, really was central to my research
pretty much from the beginning. And the book, The Only True God is, I described it being a
sci-fi fan as the prequel to my first book. It's basically where I put all the contextual stuff,
all the stuff that was a bit earlier, a bit later, wasn't the Gospel of John that related to the
work I was doing on the Gospel of John, which I would have loved to have talked about, but
in your doctoral dissertation, you need to be focused and deep rather than broad. So I
maintained an interest in those things and those things ended up in the second book.
So John was a major influence, I suspect on this. It is a radically different Gospel compared to
the synoptics, and there seems to be a huge debate on this whole, in the beginning, was
the Logos, and the Logos became flesh. So people, they seem to think, okay, this says he was co-creator,
eternal, you know, with God the whole nine, and this is seemingly what, with the science fiction,
piqued your interest in diving deeper, I suspect.
Yeah, well, whether that could fit those first 18 verses of the Gospel of John
can fit into the category of science fiction. We might save that for a little later or another
time, but it really was the differences between John and the other Gospels that was where I started.
So I got into biblical studies by way of exploring what, for me, was a relatively recent
personal faith. As many people do, whether they end up in their later years as diehard believers,
or as people tempered by the discoveries of scholarship, or people who lose their faith
entirely because they're told one thing and they start digging into the evidence and find
something else. And we can talk about that as well. But I had passed through a relatively
conservative context in my teens that really gave me the impression that if you've got these
four Gospels, they're all in the New Testament, they really should all be saying more or less the
same thing. And it only took a little bit of one course on the Gospel of John to make me realize,
nope, that is not the case. And so I was very eager to figure out why, because I really wasn't
satisfied with the explanations I came across. You had conservatives who would say, well,
you just plant the seed of the synoptic Gospels, the other Gospels. You order it for about half a
century and out springs the depiction of Jesus in the Gospel of John, just this organic development.
And that didn't seem adequate because the Gospel of Luke, for instance, maybe even later than John,
certainly usually dated around the same time period. And yet Jesus is not a divine figure in
that work. I mean, he is a human being who is empowered by the Holy Spirit and who's doing
these things through those means. And so it's the other end of the spectrum, and it's around the
same time period. So you need something else to account for why John is so distinct. And yet there
were people like Morris Casey who said, as Christianity got less and less Jewish, Jesus
became more and more God. And that didn't seem to fit either because even in the prologue of the
Gospel of John, although the word the Logos, it's an idea that had a wide currency across a wide
array of traditions and views and philosophies. But he's really most directly engaging with
Philo and the concept of the word is it's found in Judaism. And even when there's debates about
who Jesus is and whether he's claiming to be God or making himself equal with God and things
like that, it's all within a Jewish context and within the framework of Jewish assumptions,
Jewish scriptures. And so by doctoral research, essentially brought a model from the sociology
of knowledge into the picture. There's work by two sociologists, Thomas Peter Berger and Thomas
Lukman, who developed this idea of legitimation, which essentially describes the process whereby
when you're defending your beliefs, those beliefs also develop in the process. If you get two people
on here arguing about things, as might happen when you get those apologists on here, their beliefs
may be changed by that interaction. They may think of new arguments in response to the arguments that
are brought against them and things like that. And so what I argue in my book, John's Apologetic
Christology, is that the reason why we have so much continuity and yet so much distinctiveness is
that the author of that gospel, and maybe as part of a community that was involved in the process as
well, was drawing on their ideas, drawing on the scriptures that they had, drawing on these traditions
and developing them in response to objections to their viewpoint that had been articulated.
So something along those lines. So that's it in a nutshell.
It took Jesus a bit further. It's like a reactionary thing. Oh, no, no, no, he's even better than,
you know, it reminds me of Dennis R. McDonald's work. And I don't, a lot of academics don't buy
into the whole mimesis through the Greek literature completely. But he has an interesting point that
I wonder if it plays a significant role within the gospel literature and acts, Lukax, is that
they're making Jesus better than the other heroes and gods of the Greco-Roman period,
especially like John, with this whole turning water into wine right there out the gate. It looks
like it could be trying to say, Jesus is better than Dionysus even potentially. I mean, have you,
in your research, because a lot of scholars don't focus on the Greek literature and its impact on
the gospels so much? Not saying there aren't out there, but it's like mainly they focus on
scriptures. So they go to the Septuagen or whatever. Do you think there may be something going on there
with Greek impact or Greek Greco-Roman influence when it comes to writing their kind of Jesus
into the picture? Yeah, I mean, I think on the one hand, when we're talking about the earliest
stages, we do want to focus on the Jewish context geographically as well as in terms of the
religious framework, because that's where things started. Having said that, it's also important
to emphasize that there isn't this hermetically sealed Judaism that is not drawing on these
traditions, engaging with them, and that may not have some of the same ideas deep in its
tradition right there, whether affirmed in scripture, played down in scripture, or maybe
even existing in storytelling and artwork independently of those things, and persisting
despite attempts to get rid of some of those things. And so there's definitely room for that,
but one reason why I wasn't persuaded by the idea that Jesus becomes more and more God,
because you have a departure from monotheism, is that whether it's Paul, who's inviting Gentiles,
non-Jews into the faith, whether it's the Gospel of John, whether it's later,
they're all emphasizing the oneness of God. And so even those who are converts seem to be
converts first and foremost to what we would call first century Jewish monotheism,
in its Christian form, except that as Christianity elevates Jesus, clearly something happens that
changes that. But I think that in the process of getting to what we think of as monotheism today,
where there's a fairly sharp dividing line, it's not only Christianity that changes,
right? So I think other philosophies and even the Jewish tradition itself undergoes development
as it's engaging with groups like Christians who are developing ideas like the doctrine of the
Trinity. Let's ask a personal question for a second here, because I was a fundamentalist
Christian practically my whole life. I was raised in the household, a very conservative Christianity
type, and curiosity and being willing, not being afraid to push those boundaries and explore
has led me out. It's led me to an appreciation of the literature. In fact, I want to know what
they meant, even though my friend Del Martin says, stop it, it's art. And he says, you can't
know what Paul really meant. I still want to, I don't know, I want to really get to the bottom
of this. That's the thing. So I get what he's trying to say, but I appreciate and value the
literature and try and understand what people believed. Where were you? Were you also like me,
in a sense? And then you started going, oh my goodness, John, and then oh my goodness, the
Gospels and then Jesus. And they're not thinking of a Trinity. Paul's not teaching a Trinity. Did
all of that start to crumble? Yeah. So for me, I had a different path. And I think it's one reason
why where I've ended up is at least somewhat different than where you ended up. I think that
if you grow up in a tradition, it's very hard to remain within that framework if you're thinking
changes. And I haven't remained either in my sort of the framework or the tradition of my upbringing,
or in the one that I was in in my teens when I got started down this path to biblical studies
and academia and things. So I had a sort of what we might call, for want of a better terminology,
a classic born-again experience in the context of a Pentecostal church that was in my teens.
I had grown up Catholic. I had wandered away. I went into a sort of a seeker phase.
And as I got very into music in my teens, realized that I thought I had some sort of faith. I thought
I still believed in God, but I couldn't write songs about it. And I heard other people who could.
And so I was like, they must have something I don't have. And so it was actually a concert
at a friend's church that really sort of was the key event that led me there.
And one thing I'll say about Pentecostals, there was an interesting blog post, a fellow
pathiest blogger had a two-part blog post on whether Pentecostals are fundamentalists.
And he's like, yes, but in a different sort of way. There isn't as much emphasis on doctrine,
right? There's a lot of emphasis on experience. And so even if you have some of the same things
affirmed about the Bible and about Jesus, that's not sort of either the anchor or the foundation.
And I think that the fact that that's where I was coming from meant that even when I got into
an evangelical context that had a lot more Baptists, a lot more other things that tend to
focus on doctrine more and scripture more, I felt as though I had some room to explore.
I really wanted to know, and having come to it through a fairly life-changing experience,
I was pretty sure that any God that really exists can handle some questioning and some
investigation and doesn't want me clinging to stuff because somebody told me, right? In fact,
that's part of the problem with it, right? And it's really ironic that the crowd that
at least historically was associated with the born-again experience, right? You need to think
for yourself, you need to convert potentially, then will shield people within the community from
taking a close look. Whereas it's like, well, maybe you had a conversion experience, but maybe
some of your thinking needs to convert, right? Maybe you're thinking about some things wrong.
Investigate, look, right? If it's that important, do that. And that was sort of my approach,
which meant that I sometimes disagree with my professors, but I also ended up studying in the
UK where even evangelicalism there is a little bit more interdenominational, a bit more open for
that reason to discussing at least some things, right? Whereas if you're in an American context
for the most part, you're probably not just going to be within the framework of, let's say,
evangelicalism, but it's going to be conservative evangelicalism, and it'll be a school that's
affiliated with not just Baptists in general, but the Southern Baptists. And if it's American
Baptists, you might get a different perspective and things like that. So all of that led to me
taking a different sort of route that has been very open to questioning, but I also do still
have involvement in a church and teach a Sunday school class where no questions are off limits.
And I have actually a surprising number of lay and retired ministers in my class,
and very relatively few other people come because we get into the weeds and
chase rabbits all over the place. I love that. I love that. So you are on Pathios, just so
everybody knows. It's in the description. Go check out his articles and what he's writing on.
He is publishing there on Pathios. So would you want to make a comment about this?
Uh, sure. So I was rather lucky that I was able to, when I renamed my blog, Religion Prop, I had
been using that on Twitter and YouTube and other places, and people can Google Religion Prop one
word, it will probably find me. But originally my blog started out, this was way back, right,
when you had to host the blog yet, like download software and like host it on your own personal
web space and things like that. This was even before there was really like geocities and things
like that. Yeah. But I started out called Exploring Our Matrix, and it really was a place where I
started out talking about things that weren't central to my research and teaching area, which was
biblical studies and more specifically New Testament early Christianity. But I had a big
interest in science fiction. Did actually teach a class once early on in my time at Butler.
On Religion and Science Fiction. And so continued to foster that. And eventually that
turned into a whole other area of research and teaching. Butler University has been just like
the best fit for me, I think. And I would say that both intellectually and even spiritually,
if I may, because on the one hand, there was no pressure either to be Christian or not be Christian
or be some sort of, you know, hold some particular views. They want to know if I'm doing a good job
teaching and, you know, I'm not, you know, I'm at least being fairly mainstream and, you know,
the introductory courses and things and doing good research and stuff like that. And so it meant
that, you know, there was no pressure to, you know, I could just be who I was and take risks and
find my own voice. It also has meant that I could explore side interests. That's why I have this
oddity of the Clarence Goodwin Chair of New Testament Language and Literature writing about
science fiction and stuff like that. Because it's a fairly small program. And so there's a lot of
room to teach on and even research things that are side interests. And that's meant I've been able
to do some things that I probably wouldn't have been able to do if I'd been at a big research
university, right? I would have been a cog in a, you know, in a big machine. And if that cog starts,
you know, misbehaving, it throws everything out of whack.
You're definitely in good spot. I want to get into some of the controversy here, if I will,
for people. Because this is something that scholarship has taught me. They've taught me
to value learning from these people. And though I don't have faith in this anymore, I love learning
about it. So you could say, as Christine Hayes said one time, as she was debating
a Jewish rabbi on the Talmud and how to read it and what you should do, he was kind of criticizing
her saying, listen, if you're reading this, and you want to know the who, why, where, when,
what are the context and all that kind of stuff means, you're not getting the applicable
what it's trying to say and how you apply it to your life, right? And she came back and I thought
she did, her response was wonderful because I related to this. She said, I do want to know the
who, what, when, where, why, how. And she says, you get a religious experience through this
applicable like seeing this as a thing of faith and applying it to your life. Whereas I get what
you could call a religious experience from learning what were these men who were writing these things
experiencing? Why did they think that way? What were they doing? And so I get a different experience
from this. So I would like to know when you get to the Apostle Paul, Paul writes in Philippians,
this pre-existent, and I use that in quote marks because some academics don't follow that conclusion
like Dr. Tabor came on and it wasn't his idea. He learned this from someone else,
but they have this idea that Paul's Christology, which is a couple decades at most after Jesus is
dead and he's resurrected in his theology, is that Jesus was a pre-existent something of a figure
who took on flesh and then by his resurrection, Romans 1-3, by his resurrection, God then makes
him a son of God. So it's a lower Christology and it isn't like when he was born, Matthew and Luke
maybe. And then of course, John, maybe before all of that, maybe at the beginning of creation.
I wanted to get your thoughts on this as someone who's really dug into this. Do you think that
that Philippians to him might be actually saying that Paul believes Jesus, and it may have been a
thing in the church, maybe Paul picked this up from other people we don't know, but that he has an
Adam idea, that Jesus was like Adam, didn't think it was worth trying to grasp like kind of like the
fruit where Adam grasped and thought it would be equality with God where Jesus is saying,
I'm not doing that. He's the last Adam and he's doing that. Is that interpretation better than
the pre-existent one that you hear floating around? Yeah, and there are some who will say you don't
have to choose between those two. Right, right, right. I'm, you know, again, probably showing
some of the influence of Jimmy Dunn here, but I'm inclined to see Adam Christology in that
passage. It does seem to me that that's the focus. I also have an article which I think
may be shared on that selected works page that's posted by the university where some of my articles
have been made available for free if that's permissible under copyright, but I have an
article in the Journal for the Study of Historical Jesus because lately I've been working less on
sort of the more exalted later depictions of Jesus and more on historical Jesus type stuff,
but I'm always interested in making connections and passages like the one in Philippians
2, 6 through 11 that have continued to fascinate me and I keep going back to them.
And, you know, the question of, you know, when did, you know, when did Paul think Jesus
became obedient unto death? Right, like what's the story of Jesus that he has in mind there?
And it seems like the only moment that really works for that is, you know, something like the
Gethsemane story, right? And so trying to see how the story in the Gospels and the hymn in Philippians
might resonate with one another. And it's a good illustration of the fact that, you know, I'm like
you, I'm interested in history and getting back and figuring out what we can know to whatever
extent we can know it and with whatever degree of confidence is appropriate. But it's a good
illustration, I think, that article I explore. The fact that we can't disentangle as older
approaches to history used to try the, you know, the mythology and the symbolism and the theology
and the layers of interpretation as though there's some history before anybody was thinking in
those terms, right? Because Jesus, whatever one concludes about him, he had what we might call
theological views and had some sort of view of himself, right? And so it's not just something
later. Whether the later one is the same as different from continuous but developed from
what Jesus thought about himself is, you know, we should be asking those questions, right?
Anyway, and so I think that even in the stories where you have Jesus
sort of wrestling to obey what he understands to be the call to, you know, obey God, even unto death,
happening in a garden, right? As the tradition develops, right, Gethsemane becomes not just,
you know, a place on the Mount of Olives but a garden, right? It's not there in all the Gospels,
right? We tend to blur them all together. But as the tradition develops, I think there's this
interplay in these ideas. And so I think that was an important concept, right? The idea that Jesus
obeys or Adam disobeys. Now, it's not modern scholars who are the first to realize that you
have two creation accounts in the first few chapters of Genesis, but what people like Philo
of Alexandria and some of the rabbis and then later also the Gnostics did with did with that is to
say that you have the creation of a of a heavenly Adam, you know, sort of an archetype. And then the
earthly is this material reflection, right, a sort of a shadow of that. And so if one is inclined,
I don't think one has to, but if one is inclined to see Jesus as pre-existent in some respect,
why not have him be the pre-existent Adam or the pre-existent Messiah, right, whom God is prepared,
right? Because Paul doesn't say he's the first Adam, which you'd expect if he's even the pre-existent,
you know, Adam or something like that. He says he's the last Adam, right? So it seems to suggest
he comes along later. Be that as it may, right? One of the things you mentioned about, you know,
this sort of low Christology is, you know, I very much agree with Bart Ehrman that there's an irony
to the fact that, you know, where do you get at the end of that Philippians hymn, right? Jesus is
exalted. He's given the name that is above every name, which means the divine name is given to him,
right? The fact that it's given to him then indicates that he didn't previously have it. In
fact, he's exalted to that status. I guess he didn't occupy that status previously.
But he's exalted to a point where every knee will bow, every tongue will confess, right? So he's
God's viceroy, God's second in command, right? God's represented, ruling over everything else in
creation. How is that a low Christology? Exactly. I mean, how do you get any higher than that other
than Trinitarianism? But at this point, there isn't Trinitarianism, right? And so this is
calling it low Christology, I think, is misleading. It reflects the view of those
who want an affirmation that Jesus is fully God, same substance, you know, all these kinds of things
that are formulated later. And it's being compared to that later standard, which nobody had in mind
when Paul was writing to the Philippians. I think we use the terms low Christology because
when we think of high, we think like always at the top, you know, like even when he took on
flesh, which kind of why you kind of see some of the, you see some of the second century,
what are the particular sex, the heretical sex that are saying Jesus didn't even take on flesh,
which we see in the epistles, trying to hammer down, because they have such a view of Jesus,
he didn't even use the bathroom probably, and like, you know, this kind of idea. So to put it
fairly, whether we say pre-existent in some sense or not, Jesus himself does not,
he was not God, or equated in any way, shape, or form, or even right hand man of God until
after his resurrection. I think that's what we mean by lower Christology. But then when I'm reading
in the gospels, so we're moving from Paul a little into Mark, which is our first gospel,
I'm sure you would agree that's the earliest gospel. Okay, some scholars may not, but it's
very rare. So in Mark, I see Paul's impact in Mark, I see Paul's thumbprint, like Mark knows of Paul,
he builds off of Paul a bit. He has this kind of idea too, it seems. I read the, I read that
total transfiguration scene is an apotheosis. Instead of the epiphany explanation, I think
apotheosis fits it better. Don't rule out the epiphany explanation, but I'm like, you know,
I'm going to go with this guy is finally seated at the right hand, he is now divinized as a man who
becomes divinized. Why is there this confusion? Why are there groups that said he was just a man,
only a man? I mean, are they missing that after his resurrection, he then is placed at a high
exaltation? Or what is the issue? Yeah, so it's interesting that, you know, you have this array
and that suggests that these things weren't clear, right? That's the first thing to note is that if
Jesus walked around saying, Hi, I'm the second person to the Trinity, please to meet you and
things like that, then the development would unfold differently, right? On the other hand,
I think there's at least a similarity, sometimes a greater similarity and a greater degree of
commonality between some of the things. In the Gospel of Mark, Jesus is, you know, the spirit
descends on Jesus and this divine power is at work in him. And it's possible that when the Gospel
of John thinks of the word becoming flesh, it may not be thinking of some other moment than the
baptism, right? There were Christians who thought of this divine person or reality or presence or
whatever one wants to call it. That reflects some of the differences as well is it's not,
is there something divine in this human being Jesus? But who or what is it? Then is it a separate
person from God the Father? And it's those kinds of things, right? There's a lot of agreement that
God is in Jesus, right? In some way shape or form. And so I think there's commonality and then it's
the question, it's the unanswered questions as people try to answer them. They come up with
different answers and then they debate which is the better answer and which one fits the evidence
better. And once you have multiple texts that actually reflect at least slightly different
answers and sometimes significantly different answers as part of a canon of Scripture and you're
trying to do justice to as much of that as possible, that configures things differently again because
then you have to weave yet another story that somehow has both Luke and John, right, in the picture
and often doesn't do, doesn't quite do justice to either, right? And cramming them together.
I think that there's something interesting in what you're saying too. We see Paul a couple
decades after Jesus explaining where he gets his Christology. That's the tricky problem,
I think, is we're seeing Paul earliest material. Then we get to Gospel Mark. Mark seems to know Paul
was he influenced by Paul's ideas and then built on those. So can we really get,
peel back the onion and get behind Paul on what the Christology is? I could see how,
I mean, I guess the question I would have, I've heard it say that it builds in how Jesus became
God and Bart Ehrman's work. Well, do you agree that it evolves into a higher divine form or would you,
you know, writing your dissertation on John, the latest and the greatest and the highest,
as everyone wants to say, what do you see? Do you see an evolution of Jesus becoming more divine?
Well, I think the question is, what does it even mean to become more divine, right? Because
part of the reason why you have the distinction between high Christology and everything else
categorizes low Christology is this idea that, until you're saying fully God, right, of the same
substance, which radically redefines monotheism, right? It reconfigures it in a very significant
way. Before that, you have, you know, one God, right, and one Lord, right? And there's this
one God who is overall, right? There's, you know, God, the Father from whom are all things
and Jesus who sometimes is identified with wisdom or some extension of the divine action and presence,
but is through whom are all things, right? And so he's being equated with sort of some sort of
divine intermediary or something like that, perhaps. But still, it's not, it's not equality,
right? And so, you know, I'm starting to think that we should start saying, you know, well,
you gave me a grande Christology, but I ordered a venti, right? We should start, you know, we need
like, we need gradations, right? We need different sizes. And, you know, I don't know which is the
supersize, you know, ultra one, but it's, you know, it's one, it's one end of a spectrum.
And I don't think that end, I don't think anyone's at that end of the spectrum at the
stage that we're talking about. I've wondered, while reading Enoch, he gets seated at the right hand
of God. And he was divinized, it seems, in that literature. Yeah. So one thing that features in
my work on the Gospel of John is that John is drawing, as some of the earlier Gospel authors were,
on like the similitudes of Enoch, right? And there was debate for a long time about
when those are dated, but most are saying they're probably, you know, they probably were available
in the time of Jesus, they probably go back maybe the first century BC or something like that.
There's still some uncertainty about that, but that seems to be where the consensus is
leaning at the moment. But at any rate, they're known to the early Christians. And by the time
we get to the Gospel of Matthew, the influences is clear, if it's not clear earlier. And that,
that same son of man figure, right, that Enoch sees and then which, at least as the tradition
develops, you know, is possibly identified with. But initially, at least, it seems like the tradition
had in mind Enoch seeing, you know, this figure, right, with whom he's not yet identified, at least,
who is to come, right? And is this messianic figure in the sense of, you know, the Davidic
King, but one who's enthroned, as Christians would then say, Jesus was, to rule over creation and
enact judgment and things like that. And so to be, you know, one reason why I don't think monotheism
was a debate for the earliest Christian is that you had these ideas there, right? What was controversial
was not the idea that the Messiah could occupy this exalted status, second only to God.
Some may have agreed to that, some may have disagreed, but it was all happening within
the framework of Judaism and its commitment to one God. What those who were not Christians and
didn't accept Christianity disagreed with was that Jesus was that figure, right? This crucified guy,
right, does not fit the job description, right? And so that was their objection, right?
And so I think, you know, if we compare, say, Matthew's Gospel with the Gospel of John,
by the time he gets to the Gospel of John, John, and John's the only one who uses this
language in the New Testament, is talking about the Son of Man, right, who descends and ascends,
right, ascends and descends. What if you see the Son of Man ascend to where he was before,
right? And none of that is in, say, the Gospel of Matthew, even though the influence of the
the parables of Enoch is visible there. And so you could talk about the pre-existence of the Messiah
and have that concept and yet not take it literally in the sense that this is a pre-existent
person walking around who's maybe born in a different way or who is, you know, somehow new things that
nobody else knew. And I think the reason why the Gospel of John develops that tradition and
starts to take it more literally is precisely because there are debates about Jesus as one who
can reveal heavenly things, right, in the Gospel of John we also get, you know, we know God spoke
to Moses, this guy we don't know where he came from, you know, why should we listen to him,
right, what does he offer? And I think John is trying to answer people who are saying that sort
of thing and saying, well, if he's the Messiah, then he pre-existed in heaven, right, go read,
go read 1st Enoch again, and therefore he actually would know things. One thing I don't think John
does by the end of, you know, within his Gospel and, but that sets the stage for the later
debates about who Jesus is and how to think about monotheism.
When the Son of Man descends, is that the same as the spirit descending? Is that the
same as the Logos becoming flesh? Or is the Son of Man the pre-existent human being? Is he the
soul of the Messiah? And is he connected with wisdom before he comes on earth or only at the
baptism? Or, you know, John's not answering those questions. How do you fit these various
pieces together? Because he's developing these several strands that he's inherited
in response to objections and less concerned about some of the questions that will arise to people
once they're reading, once they have the leisure of reading, reading what he wrote,
and taking some more time to think about it. I was thinking about John the Baptist when you
said that. And in fact, you're working on that right now. And it comes to mind, you know, he's
this Elijah figure, behold, you know, prepare you the way the Lord. And did they think he
literally was flesh and bone or flesh and blood Elijah? Or is he carrying the spirit of Elijah?
And maybe this what you're describing with this pre-existent Messiah is the spirit, the
dove, the Holy Spirit, which might be messianic, comes down, descends on them, where we get this
adoptionist understanding in the early church might play a role. The other question I had is,
you mentioned Moses, where they believe, oh, God spoke to Moses, he knew heavenly things,
but who's this Jesus? Now, that's an interesting thing you bring up, because when I read the Tanakh,
the best I can get out of that is, okay, the guy went up on a mountain,
he gets some rules, he talks, he sees face to face with God, boom, comes back down off of a mountain.
But when I read Josephus about Moses, which is really interesting, Moses never died. So
Moses goes up, he has kind of an, I don't know, you can't call it an apotheosis, but he is taken
like Elijah is. And who do we see next to Jesus on this mountain in the Transfiguration,
both Elijah and Moses? Do you see something going on here in this contemporary period with that idea
about Moses? Because we all think Moses was dead and buried, maybe even by God, but Jews are like,
ah, I'm not sure God got his hands dirty. Anyway. Yeah. And it's probably a direct response to that
idea, right? When the Gospel of John says, no one is ascended into heaven except the one who
descended, the Son of Man, right? And so there's no one who's gone up, at least to the highest heights
to get to really see things and come back to the share about it, not Moses, not Enoch. The one who's
got the real inside scoop is this figure who Enoch saw at a distance, and who has that even more
exalted status. And so I think there's, I think there's that. And I think there's competition,
you know, not just with, with Moses, right? And the scriptures that were attributed to Moses,
but also probably with, you know, followers of John the Baptist, right? And so that's,
that's something that's got my interest at the moment. I can't wait to see what you put out
with that. You talked about how you're doing historical Jesus material lately, and that's
stuff I'd like to dive into at some point with you. I'm curious with, with, it's a French concept
in terms of academia, but mythicism is something I have interviewed on my channel. And I know a
lot of scholars don't take it seriously. I get why. To me, someone who's crucified, even in Paul's
letters sandwiched between Josephus and Philo, it sounds like crucified on earth, real Jews being
crucified. That just seems to be the least ad hoc, just most plausible explanation. You can still
sandwich in all of the mythicist, and it's not even mythicist material, but like all of the
mythical, legendary, theological, all of that can be coupled on to a historical Jesus who was crucified,
whereas in the mythicist position, they purely want to put him like in space in every
way and respect. And I'm like, why? But when they're reading this Christology in Paul,
I try to empathize with them like I try because I was a mythicist. Have you done any? I'm sure
you're aware of it, but have you ever looked at it carefully and thought why they get caught up in
this? And what are your thoughts? There are probably lots and lots of fans of your channel
right now who are laughing. And they're laughing because one of the things that I've been blogging
about for like more than a decade is mythicism. Really? I didn't know this. Yes. And in fact,
it's, you know, it's going way back and spent a lot of time talking with, you know, Earl Darity,
and then, you know, I did a review of Richard Carrier. One thing you'll get a kick out of
is there's a Richard Carrier supercut on my blog, because somebody went through all the things that
Richard Carrier says about his opponents, like, you know, Rain Dead, CNI, all this kind of stuff,
and just did this like supercut of just the insult. Oh my goodness. It's hilarious. It shows,
well, I mean, you know, shows the difference between doing that kind of internet apologetics and,
you know, what scholars are aiming for. Scholars can be harsh at times, but usually taken most
seriously when we're actually doing harsh and accurate evaluations of somebody else's arguments
in their shortcomings. But yeah, I'm absolutely with you. I mean, on the one hand, you know,
if you're saying that Jesus is not just some vague messianic figure, but, you know, the one who's
descended from David, the expectation is that that figure, you know, restores the line of David to
the throne. And being crucified is, again, not in the job description, right? And that's the problem.
One of the ironies, you know, it's a point where, you know, a liberal Christian and,
you know, a mainstream atheist, you know, doing scholarship, anyone doing scholarship will probably
agree. But, you know, the conservative Christians and the mythosists who often, I think, one has
become the other, you know, the pendulum swing, will agree more with one another. You know,
I mean, mythosists will say, you know, well, Jesus could have been invented because he's
such a perfect fit to, you know, prophecies. And so they went and looked for prophecies and
then made them up. And a mainstream historical scholar is going to say, the whole one of the
main reasons we think Jesus was a historical figure and are confident in this is that he's not a
perfect fit, right? They're shoehorning him in and, you know, crowbarring him in when necessary and
trying to make him fit and trying to deal with the fact that people expected him to be from
Bethlehem. And so Bethlehem gets into the picture later, but everybody knows him as Jesus of Nazareth
and they're coming up with multiple different and incompatible ways of getting him to be born in
Bethlehem, even though he's Jesus of Nazareth and stuff like that. And so it's, you know, I'm
definitely with you. Yeah, I don't find mythos and persuasive. Yeah, like at the bare minimum,
you're like, okay, there's some things and to me, I'm actually friends with everybody. I'm friends
with everybody. Richard Carrier is a friend of mine. Shoot, I know about everybody too. And I know
that people don't always get along, but I have been swayed and I was a mythosist and I thought,
for me, there were certain things that just seemed way more on the historic side to make
better sense without getting ad hoc or trying to rationalize or say, well, you know, Jews did
believe there were seven versions of heaven. And, you know, I recently interviewed Trolls Engberg
Peterson and he has a book on Stoicism in Paul. And I'm like, okay, he is suggesting, I don't know if
you follow his conclusions or not, but he thinks Paul was a Stoic and Hebrews is more Platonic,
seems like they were more into Platonic philosophy, middle Platonism or something. And so if Paul's
a Stoic, like he's not necessarily thinking this is all happening in heaven, but even then it's a
reflection of what's on earth. So they have a reflective concept, whether you're Stoic or Platonic
here. I know we're getting deep into the weeds for a second, but I was reading Elaine Pagel's work,
which is what started to put me over the edge. The origins of Satan, or the origin of Satan,
made me go, hold on, here are these demonic archons, evils, demons, devils, the whole nine,
Satan, the whole nine, whatever. And these are categories you would think are in the spiritual
realm, whatever that even means, depending on what kind of philosophy you hold to. But I've heard,
like he was crucified by the archons. And in Paul, it sounds like spiritual beings,
but does that mean that humans didn't do it? And that's why Elaine Pagel's book made me go,
well, who gets blamed every time the Jews, but they're children of the devil? Now, literally,
are Jews literally the children of the devil? No, it's a terminology that they're controlled by
the powers that be or whatever. So it's not either or it was both to me. And that's when I started
going, okay, hold on, I need to reevaluate the historical Jesus in light of some of this material.
Yeah. And I think there are some people who, because they were told, they're sold a bill of
goods where you take the gospel to face value, everything in them is literally 100% true. And
you realize, you can't even fit some of this stuff together. It can't all be true, because as
Ned Flanders said in one episode of The Simpsons, even the stuff that contradicts the other stuff,
it just doesn't work. There's no way. And those who claim to be taking the whole Bible literally
and believe all of it, aren't doing justice to that. But ultimately, there are figures in history
that we have good reason to think existed. And we feel like we can say very little else about them,
because so much mythology and so much legend has been overlaid upon them. But once you get to
even a couple of snippets that seem like they're more likely to be historical,
then the appropriate conclusion for historians is that figure is most likely historical, a
historical figure. That doesn't mean the portrait you have in literary works that come later is
historical, either in essence or in detail. It means that there is a historical figure from whom
and about whom those things are claiming to speak, even if they are radically distorting
that historical figure. And it's that nuance that historians aim for and critical scholars aim for.
And I think a lot of times people prefer the simplicity of, well, it's all fake or it's all
true. Whereas historians are like, well, we think there might be some truth to this,
but it's overlaid and it's nuance and it's vague and it's blurry. And it doesn't let you say,
with a sense of absolute certainty, here I know and I know it all. And here's the answer.
You, oh man, this is a great, I'm so glad you said this, because I was,
Jesus is God and the flesh trinity, the whole nine, I was hardcore and then all of a sudden I
flipped when I started to look at stuff that I never really paid attention to. So all things,
it's like everything became a golden nail and I had a golden hammer and it was like, oh, it's all
mythical and it's completely made up. And this is just a story I even went so far as to like,
this is a story about the sun, moon and stars and everything is like allegory of the star, you
know, to what happened is I slowly started to learn how to, you know, hey, this is a brush. Okay,
take that brush and just look, check this out, look and compare it to this other thing over here.
We know that existed. Just imagine it's not Jesus now. So you gotta, you gotta stop being so
special pleading when you get over here and brush it and tell me that doesn't look like there's
maybe something there. And when I started doing that more and more, I started going, okay, hold up,
maybe there is, this is legendary, which meant I didn't have to say everything's complete myth,
legendary, some myth, some history. And I went, okay, now I started listening to John Crossen
lately and I've been fascinated with him with my interviews. He thinks this Galilean Jew,
and I don't know where you stand on this, but he thinks he can glean a little more out of all of
this literature that this Galilean Jew who picked up fishermen right there at the lake of, you know,
the Sea of Galilee, that at the time the emperor was changing its name to the Lake of Tiberias,
which meant he's ruffling feathers. The Galilean Jews aren't having it. And Jesus is saying,
don't worry, the kingdom of God has come in like John the Baptist, probably, and others.
And he goes down to Jerusalem to kind of like get the Jews on board. He was a nonviolent,
Jewish figure who got himself killed. And his message was powerful enough among the original
Jews who saw him kind of bucking against the emperor in a way, because here's this coin,
right, render under Caesar. He doesn't equate Caesar with God. He's saying render under Caesar,
parsing it out. And I thought, man, there seems like there's something to this.
I don't know how much detail is actually accurate to the core, but this makes sense to me.
What are your thoughts about this whole notion? Yeah, I mean, I think, you know, there are details
on which, you know, I would disagree with Croson's, you know, specific conclusions. But, you know,
since we got there by way of, you know, mythicism, I think, you know, the whole direction of the
trajectory of the developing, you know, the, sorry, the whole trajectory of the developing
tradition in what comes to be known as Christianity, right, not even called that in early sources,
is from a Jesus who is this kind of figure who is sort of a messianic figure, an exorcist, teacher,
and who is, in some way, makes a threat against the temple, sounds like does, you know, is
challenging some of the leadership, is gathering crowds and the Romans are interested in him and
want him out of the way. And it sounds like the reason that he's arrested is not that, you know,
there's deep theological objection to what he's saying, so from a Jewish perspective,
but if we don't hand him over to the Romans, the Romans are going to come get him and more people
are going to die that way, right? Right. And the mythicist portrait is that it starts out as,
you know, a creation, you know, in the mythical realm and then is historicized. And
the direction seems to be, you know, that seems to be, everything seems to be flowing in the
opposite direction, you know, as far as mainstream historical scholarship, reconstructing it,
whether that's done by, you know, atheists, Christians, Jews, and that, that mainstream
scholarship, I mean, a lot of ways is much more challenging and a lot harder to dismiss, right?
If, you know, if you encounter, like, Eric Vondanek and saying, you know, your stories,
they're literally true, but it was, it was aliens, right? That's easier to dismiss than somebody
saying, actually, there's this whole complicated process by which and behind, you know, the Exodus
is probably largely mythological and the Israelites probably mostly came from within Canaan,
but it's complex and there's, there's a lot we don't still know. And, you know, that, that,
you know, if, if you can get beyond the very either or, you know, sort of thinking to the fact
that things are blurry and some things, some things, yeah, we're confident and some things,
yeah, we're confident it's not and things in between, that actually is a lot more challenging
in a lot of ways. I mean, certainly it's been challenging to, to, to any faith I have and
it's been challenging to be intellectually, right, to get the nuance right and to figure out
what can we know and how certain can we be? What evidence don't we have? But if we had it,
maybe we'd, we'd think about this differently. Most academics don't like to make guesswork,
but I'm going to ask you to maybe possibly upfront fair warning, this is my guess based
on my research as an academic of what I think, even though you may not be certain about it.
Maybe you have confidence in this and this is my question. The historical Jesus, we're past the
mythicist discussion, we're granting there was probably a guy who led a little movement that
got enough attention that Roman said, oh heck no, boom, put them on a cross and then let's just say
theology ran, ran wild. Let's just say, what do you think the historical Jesus thought about
himself? And in regards to, to our discussion overall about God and all of this, he was probably
a monotheist and thought, you know, there's only one God and it's Father God. But what do you think?
What do you think he thought about himself? Yeah, that's a great question. And there's a sense in
which, you know, some of my work on John the Baptist, I hope will at least contribute to try
and answer that because the question of, yeah, did John actually think he like was either taken
over by or filled with or connected to the spirit of Elijah? And then why is it that when
people are talking about Jesus, they're saying maybe he's John the Baptist or one of the other
prophets and can a person literally be someone else? And as we talked about in relation to Adam
and then other figures and possibly Enoch as well with the Son of Man, is that there's this whole
idea of, you know, these, you know, heavenly double gangers, right? These, you know, there's a heavenly
corresponded to earthly realities and things like that. And Dale Allison in one of his books
actually explores the possibility that the Son of Man was sort of Jesus doppelganger, right? That kind
of, that's when he talked about the Son of Man who was coming. It's this figure with whom
he saw himself as potentially connected because he believes he's the Messiah, but he's not sort of
exalted that status. And so the two are not sort of yet one. Or did he have some kind of
preliminary experience at his baptism, right? Was John's baptism, did it encourage that kind of
mystical experience, you know, and is that why we have some of those kinds of stories? It's interesting,
one of the things that I'm going to be exploring further in this work on John the Baptist is that,
you know, John's, according to the Gospels, talked about one who is to come, right, who's
greater than him. And if you want to say that, you know, one is coming, right, one way of saying that
is, yo, a Son of Man is coming, right? Son of Man is just means human being, a person, someone
in our make. And so I wonder whether in the Son of Man saying Jesus is doing something that maybe
John the Baptist was heard to be doing even before that, right? People probably wondered
about John. Is he talking about himself? Or does he really mean somebody else is coming, right? Or is
it just that he's going to be identified with this, you know, celestial human being that is his,
maybe is actually his counterpart. And then when they fuse, oh gosh, then it's really we're
going to really see something. And Jesus is potentially continuing that. That's a lot harder to tell
because, you know, one of the most challenging things for anyone who's interested in the historical
Jesus, John A.T. Robinson did some great work on this subject and called it the last taboo,
is the self understanding of Jesus, right? Can we figure out how Jesus thinking developed,
right? And most historians are not even asking that the way they do about other figures, partly
because the material doesn't lend itself to that because the Gospels are in these different orders,
but partly because if you start talking about the human Jesus and how his mind changed and things
like that, historians will say, well, we're not sure we can do that and so may look a scans at it.
And then certainly conservative Christians are not going to be happy that you're talking about
the human Jesus changing his mind and things like that. And so it seems like nobody actually
wants this work done. And so even speculatively, relatively little has been done on the subject.
And that's, I kind of was moving a little bit in that direction with my book on what Jesus
learned from women. And one of the interviews I did after that book came out, asked me, I think,
sort of facetiously, so what's next, what Jesus learned from men? And at that point I was thinking
about this project on John the Baptist. And so I was like, well, actually, now that you mentioned
it, because it seems like John was Jesus mentor. And before anyone is thinking of him as potentially
a celestial figure or something like that, he's the question is, is he the, is he the successor of
John in this movement? And an interesting thing that happens when you put the gospel of John and
the synoptics together, talking about those stories that you mentioned, Jesus along what
comes to be known as Lake Tiberius, calling those people is that the gospel of John says that Jesus
and those various Galileo and Fisher and others actually met previously, right, in the entourage
of John the Baptist. And so is that Jesus not encountering them for the first time, but regrouping
John's disciples after John's been thrown into prison and they've scattered and saying,
you know, our work's not done, this thing's still going to continue. Come follow me.
That gets into that whole once again. How do I put it? Disturbing it seems material, you know,
it's hard for us to say what is an embarrassment. But when Mark has him baptized by John, and then
you got to have John be, be littled in later Gospels, the kind of Jesus has got to hold on,
he didn't need remission of sins, or he's not underneath John. Have John go up to Jesus and
say, I'm not even worthy to touch your sandals. You know, those are huge red flags for me for the
kernels. Whatever we could say, I know for a fact, no, no, no, no, no, no, we don't know anything for
a fact. But we have really, I mean, as far as what really happened, but we have really good reasons
to go, hmm, red flag, you know, this seems like something of a kernels here and it doesn't fit
the model or the debate about what's happening a little later on, and they got to make sure Jesus
wins. That's what it seems to me. I don't know about you, but yeah. And in addition to the baptism,
there's also that saying, right, among those Jesus supposedly said, among those born of women,
right, there's none greater than John Baptist. Jesus is born of women, born of a woman, right?
That's just saying human being, right? So he's saying there's never been a greater human being
than John. And that doesn't sound like present company accepted, right? The Gospels add,
and I mean, it could be a later edition, right, that, but the least in the kingdom of God is
greater than him. But even so, I mean, those who are in the kingdom of God, right, those who enter
the kingdom of God are not different from those born of women. And so maybe it's saying, you know,
when the kingdom of God comes, the least will be greater than than John is now or something like
that, you know, it clearly can't be saying that John is not that great, because there's really
no qualification. And Jesus seems to hold John in higher esteem than himself at that moment,
which is interesting. And not something that, you know, traditional Christology
does much with, let's say. Now, I'm going to ask a couple more questions as we're wrapping up,
because I really think that you and me have a lot of exploration we can do on the channel. I didn't
know that you wrote all this, by the way. I got a poke fun with you sometime. We got to go deeper.
My friend who's going to come on, I've never met him actually, but I just, you know, he's a kind
of gentleman willing to debate the Trinitarian. Would you say he has good ground to stand on
on Jesus was not God in the New Testament? Yeah, I think Jesus, I don't think Jesus thought of
himself as God. One of the key, you know, there are all kinds of important questions that don't
get asked about say the gospel of John. I mean, is the word that becomes flesh, right? If John is
saying that, you know, God's word is somehow embodied or connected with Jesus. I mean, is that
word a person? You know, why would we think so? Or is it just because he comes to be identified
with Jesus, right? So Jesus sort of embodies God's word, God's wisdom in the flesh as it were,
that then the fact that Jesus is a separate person, as you start talking about, so what does that mean
for who Jesus is and what does that mean for the word that the attributes of both, you know, start
to become entangled in this complicated way. And that's, that's certainly one of the pieces that
leads in the direction of the formulation of the doctrine of the Trinity, but it's a long,
it's a long path to get there. But on the other hand, the sharp dividing line, and I hinted at
this earlier, the idea of a sharp dividing line, so there's like one God, and then sharp line,
and then everything else is not part of the way people talk in this period either, right? So if
we look at Philo of Alexandria, one of my favorite statements by Philo about the Logos is that he's
neither uncreated like God, nor created like you, but in between those two extremes. It's like,
that is beautiful, it doesn't mean anything, right? There's no, you know, what is it, you know,
and so that blurriness at the edges of God into your spirit, wisdom, word, and from there into
angels, right? There's this sort of hierarchy of being, and it's only as you get further developments
in sort of emanationism, you know, particularly in Gnosticism, that what develops into Christian
orthodoxy is reacting against that and saying, no, we need a dividing line, and that's when you get
the debate about Arianism, right? Because once you have to put Jesus on one side or the other,
neither side is able to do justice to everything they feel is said in the tradition, because on the
one hand, you're encountering, you know, not some lesser being, but God in Jesus, but on the other
hand, is subordinate. And how does that work? And I think one reason why that's not an issue,
like in the first entry and in the New Testament, is precisely because that blurriness was part of
anything that we might call your first entry Jewish monotheism, and wasn't understood to detract
from the fact that at the pinnacle of being is one. And I guess this is a bold, you could probably
even put this in a yes or no answer. I don't know. Maybe you want to make a brief comment.
Does the New Testament teach Trinitarianism? No.
I'm happy to comment more on that. But certainly Trinitarianism has as one of the things it's
trying to take into account, the New Testament writing, but it's answering questions that have
not even been asked yet in the New Testament. And so the New Testament is not teaching what
later Trinitarianism is, whether Trinitarianism can be viewed as a legitimate development out of
those roots, and offering legitimate responses to later questions, things like that. That's another
issue. Hopefully you won't ask me for a yes or no answer to that one. I'll just leave that one a
little bit blurry. But I will say that as somebody who thinks that if one subscribes to the idea of
God at all, the divine has to be sort of the ultimate that which transcends all else, which
means that human language is going to be at best symbolic metaphorical. And if you want symbolic
language, I mean the idea of Trinitarianism, there's like love and relationship within God.
Yeah, it's beautiful. Does it correspond to anything within the reality of God? People who
claim to know that are claiming to know things that they have no way of knowing.
Thank you so much. I seriously appreciate you and the time that you spent here. I hope everybody goes
to your blog post on Pathios. You also are on Twitter and I'm following you there and
hit that bell, so I'm going to be notified every time you drop a new tweet. And you also got the
book, so I hope everybody watching this episode will go get you a copy. Are you unaudible by any
chance? Not yet. And that's one of my aspirations is to get audio books with some of these,
because I've enjoyed listening to Amy Jill Levine and other scholars in audio book form.
Recently, Francesca Savricopoulos' book, The God, is a great audio book. And yeah, hope to get
around to that. Part of it is just I haven't had the time. I've usually had so many projects in
the pipeline that by the time the book is out, rather than going and reading it into a microphone
and doing multiple takes, I'm like, oh, yeah, I should have done that. I don't know if your publisher
is, if you have any self-published here, it looks like you might, then maybe you could hire,
but we'll talk about that. It's something to get it done. At least you'll make some money if
anyone wants to listen, because a lot of people are driving or they're listening to this podcast
while driving. They could listen to the book, but yeah, please get you a copy. And then, of course,
MiFusion's got the Patreon. This video will make it up on a Patreon. For those who support me
early, you'll get to have early access. There's that interview with Trolls. This is not public
yet. You're getting the noses here, Dr. McGrath, that nobody else sees. John, Dominic Cross,
and some of the stuff I've made public. This is another one I did with Cross, and of course,
and anyway, I do a lot of hard work here, and I try to give people early access who help support
me to keep doing this. I hope you've enjoyed this episode. Very much so, and I'm hoping this won't
be our last conversation. I know there's so much that I know that you and me can talk about that
I'm afraid that we'll never have into an episode that we could do. So I want to definitely leave
our fans. Let us know what you think of the conversation. What would you want to hear from
Dr. McGrath? And of course, let me know what you think about his books. I want to talk about your
works more. I'm excited to get deeper into this, maybe even deeper into the discussion of mythosism,
some of the claims that are made and how do you address them. But yeah, I like to have dialogue
and not animosity or anything like that between people on these ideas. I do appreciate your time.
It's been wonderful talking with you. Thanks so much for having me on.
Thank you, and ladies and gentlemen, never forget, we are MythVision. Join MythVision's Patreon today
to access hundreds of videos that I have worked hard in high quality content that are not in public
domain. They're only on the Patreon. You will also have direct access to me, referring academics,
questions, ideas, or just want a private chat. You have that access with me. Also, I'm trying to do
more traveling to educate people from more academics and expand what kind of material I do
produce on MythVision. This is a full-time gig and you're helping the community by joining.
I'm trying to put together more to educate people who have harmful,
cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society. We are educating them from MythVision
on better understanding these ancient texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many
shows do. So please, I could use your help and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining
as a member.
