We are MythVision, home of MythVision Podcast and MythVision Radio Group.
My co-host is Derek Lambert.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams.
You'll find us on Facebook, where you can like us and catch up on the latest research
and upcoming guests.
On YouTube, go ahead and give us a like, subscribe, comment, share, link to us, and send us a
blip from your location in cyberspace, okay?
And don't let that PayPal and Patreon punk you on the gridiron, nail them as they try
to get by you and show us some love.
We sure do appreciate everything that you do for us.
Now when I say MythVision brings you the very best researchers in religion and culture on
the world scene today, I'm writing a check that I don't have any problem cashing guys.
Even our surprise guests, like this next guy from across the pond, who says he never misses
a show, will show you just what I mean.
You know his books, movies, TV programs.
Some of you out there mentioned him whenever you're stating the obvious.
He's known across the world for his powers of observation and logical reasoning.
I'm talking about Dr. John Watson's intimate friend and my Croft Holmes little brother.
I make him mad when I say that.
Please welcome the world's greatest super sleuth and pride of Scotland Yard, Sherlock Holmes.
Sherlock, what are you doing here in the States?
I've been considering the issues on your show.
Obviously gentlemen, men don't walk on water.
Camels don't squeeze through the eye of a needle.
But as I have told you time and again, when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever
remains, however improbable, must be the truth.
I'm just full of all this excitement to solve all of your show's mysteries.
Oh yeah, sure Sherlock, you sound so excited my cocky friend.
However, I don't think you should take the evidence presented by today's special guest
lightly, even you might be shocked at what we talk about.
I call him the Sherlock Holmes of Scholarship because he asks the questions that others
miss and studies the clues they don't see.
He's John Knight Lundwall and holds a doctorate in comparative myth and religion from Pacifica
Graduate Institute in California.
He's a writer, author and lecturer, managing co-editor for Cosmos and Logos, Journal of
Myth, Religion and Folklore, and a founding board member of the Utah Valley Astronomy
Club, which is a non-profit organization that partners with state and national parks to
run their astronomy programs.
Dr. Lundwall is the project leader of the Archeo Astronomy Project of Fremont Indian
State Park and has assembled a team of researchers to investigate the Archeo Astronomy
of Fremont Petroglyphs.
By the way, he has an excellent video on Fremont Archeo Astronomy on YouTube.
Dr. Lundwall lives in Utah and is an avid backyard astronomer, astrophotographer and
hiker of the outdoors.
His major area of research is the epistemology of orality, that is how oral societies went
about obtaining knowledge.
And his research also focuses on the creation of ancient myth.
He is the author of Mythos and Cosmos, Mind and Meaning in the Oral Age.
This is his third appearance on our show, so please welcome warmly Dr. John Lundwall.
John, it's good to have you back.
How are you?
Oh, good.
Thanks.
It's great to be back, guys.
Thanks for having me back.
Luther, I've decided I need to take you to all my family reunions so you can introduce
me.
Anywhere I go, I've got to drag Luther around and say, look what I got.
Don't do it.
John, I appreciate it.
I appreciate it.
Just make sure to check him out, man.
That's cool.
Who is this guy?
Well-deserved, my friend.
Well-deserved.
You're very busy this year.
I know that.
You've got trips planned to Egypt, and we'll learn all about that.
We're going to talk all about that at the end of the show, okay?
But last time you were with us, you walked us through the imprint of astro-theology in
the Bible.
And we got a lot of calls on that show, and we want to continue with those investigations.
So let's just ask a couple of questions just to kind of warm us up today and get right
in.
You know what we're going to do, John?
We're going to turn you loose like we did last time.
But everybody wants to know about the book of Revelation.
Very popular book, popular prophecy is out there.
And in this book, you have all these different media, which we wouldn't know about if it
weren't for you.
But the dance is in there.
It talks about a scroll.
It talks about the Lamb's book of life.
What's going on with these media technologies in Revelation?
Are they competing or complementary or cooperative?
Is there a story to be told about all these things going on in the book?
Well, once again, Luther, I don't know if everyone wants to know about the book of Revelation.
You're my people.
Because if you want to know, then that's what I like to think about.
But I suppose I could just start by sharing the screen.
Let me just get my PowerPoint up and running, guys.
All right.
Just as a quick recap, because we talked about this in a previous podcast, the medium is
the message.
This links off your question, Luther.
I just want to go over that the messages we share with each other are important.
But how we share them with each other, the medium by which we share them with each other,
turns out to be even more important.
Because it's the medium that structures culture.
It's the medium that structures the brain.
It structures how we think.
And I thought I'd just give an example out of history between the transition between
the scroll and the invention of the codex.
Of course, the codex is invented by the Romans.
The early Caesar probably used an early version of the codex.
But certainly, the codex is the medium that Christianity uses as a world religion.
Christianity is the first world religion that begins in full literacy.
Not that it's adherents.
We're all literate.
There are very few of them were.
But it's the first world religion that's managed by text.
And it's managed by a specific kind of text, the codex, which is popularly used by the
fourth century and forward.
Well, there are reasons.
There are vast changes that start to occur in human thinking, just from the transition
from a scroll to a book.
And I'll just briefly talk about that.
Ancient scrolls could be 70 feet, 100 feet long.
They could have dozens of different texts on them.
But for the most part, they were liturgical texts.
You read them in a communal context.
People would gather.
There would be a reader, a crier, some group leader who was literate.
He would read a portion of the scroll.
And very often, he would sing or chant a portion of the scroll.
The congregation would sing and chant returns.
This was all ritualized.
You didn't have to be literate in order to participate because you had the songs and
chants memorized.
Well, just the physicality of the scroll, you could only write on one side.
You couldn't write on the backside because as you move the scroll along, that would
smear the ink.
But more interestingly, you couldn't cross reference texts on the scroll.
What happens with the codex is you cut the scroll up into pages.
And then you bind it into a binding.
And now you can just flip the scroll page to page.
So one, you can use front and back of each page.
So that actually makes, despite the fact that manuscript codexes creating them were very
expensive, it actually is more economical than creating scrolls.
But more interestingly, you can now easily cross reference information from page three
to page 20, from page 20 to page 50, whereas in a scroll, you couldn't do that.
You would unroll a little bit.
And if you were on the 50th foot of your scroll and you wanted to remember what you had read
on the second foot of your scroll, you had to unroll and re-roll and unroll and re-roll
back.
It was very cumbersome and very difficult.
But also, the scroll follows a pattern, and it's a cosmological pattern.
You unroll one end, and you roll the other end, and this is in synchronous, analogous
to the sun rising on one horizon, setting on the other horizon.
And actually, as you read a scroll, you would read part of the scroll, part of the text
that was lined up with a certain week of your calendar year, the next week you'd read a
different part, and it all followed your calendar, it all followed the seasons, it was all ritualized.
This all changes with a book.
All that goes away.
Suddenly, it's no longer a cosmological pattern, you're just reading from page to page.
You can cross reference, and that's the real thing, is the brain starts thinking analytically.
It's now, instead of ritually following a text, it's now cross-comparing text.
It's now swapping between pages and swapping between books, because the books are small
and portable and much easier to facilitate than a scroll.
And so, within a few centuries after the invention of the Codex, you actually start getting human
beings thinking completely differently.
This is what changes, the medium is the message.
They start thinking analytically.
Now, this process starts with the invention of writing, it starts with the invention of
reductive alphabets, but it starts flowering with the invention of the Codex, and it takes
its full form with the invention of the printing press.
But so, just in these two mediums, we can see a large shift in how human beings relate
to information, transmit information, and how we think.
We start thinking analytically, comparing text as opposed to ritually following text,
and of course, this evolution of thinking is occurring even today, because we're no longer a
book culture, we're an audio-visual internet culture, and that has consequences.
All right, so just to recover some of what we went over before with the resurrection,
or the story of Jesus walking on water that we find in three Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and John.
Remember, there is a one tradition, scholarly tradition, where scholars believe that the
story of Jesus walking on water was a displaced resurrection narrative.
Jesus first appears in the Book of John to the disciples by the sea, or the Greek can be translated
on the sea. So, when the disciples first see, this isn't Mary at the tomb, when the disciples
first see the resurrected Lord, they see him appearing by the sea or on the sea, and that same
Greek phrase is used in all the Seawalk narratives. And so, there's a group of scholars that we went
over in a previous podcast that said, look, what we have with the Jesus Seawalk narrative
originally was a resurrection narrative, but the resurrection narrative got split up.
And so, you have Jesus appearing on the sea after his death and his resurrection. But then,
you also get this part where Jesus walks on the water and saves the disciples from death,
right? So, the disciples are being saved from death from a storm. So, this theme of death and
on the sea and resurrection were once combined in a unified story, but they got split up. So,
that scholarly tradition as to the origin of the Seawalk narrative that we talked about last time,
and what's very interesting about that take of the story is it is a direct link to all the previous
pagan systems of dying and resurrecting gods, well, maybe not all of them, but a vast majority of them
in the Near East and Mediterranean area are gods that are reborn on the sea or by crossing the sea.
Osiris is reborn out of the waters. We have Heracles who has to gain overcome death by
crossing the Great Sea. It's the same theme that we find in Jason. We find this theme with Gilgamesh.
We find this theme actually in mythologies on the other side of the globe. And so,
it is a Chinese, it's a sort of universal mythological template that in order to be reborn,
one had to cross the waters or walk on the waters. And this is a direct link with our
astro theology. You know, one of the things you said, Luther, last time was that, and I really
liked it, so I'm going to use it, that history for modern literate people is something that
scratches an itch. It allows us to think outside of ourselves. Look, this actually happened in the
past, and if it actually happened in the past outside of my own experience, then it must be true.
And so, that is how we think, and that's how literate people think, that if it happened
historically, it is true. And if it didn't happen historically, it is not true. Well,
the reason why astro theology was a major cornerstone in the ancient world is because
oral peoples have a different epistemology of truth. They don't think historically like we
think. The thing that scratches their itch is the thing they observe in nature. The function in
nature is the ultimate truth. And they tried to repeat that cosmogonic or cosmological function
in their rituals, in their society, in their religion. And so, for them, the thing that is
true, the thing that scratches the itch, is the thing they observe, and in this case, the thing
they observe in the sky. And so, I have this graphic here that we went over last time, where
Orion rises and sets associated with the sun. He's followed by a boat, the Argo,
and then we go through this whole resurrection cycle of birth, life, death, and rebirth,
all from what you can observe happening in the sky with these stars and constellations
associated with the rising and setting sun through the seasonal cycle. And so, they observe that,
oral peoples observe that, and they say, that is what exists outside of me. That is the ultimate
truth. And so, their myths, while we define them as untruths, as something false, as something
non-historical, as something fairy tale, and maybe even silly and false, they considered them to be
representations of the ultimate truths. Remember, for oral peoples, truth is cosmic fact, not
historical fact. And so, how the stars, sun, moon, planets move across the sky is a reflection
of the cosmic order, which reveals ultimate truth. And in this case, with the constellation
Orion, which we'll be getting into, this ultimate truth is disclosing a resurrection motif. Here is
how life is born, and here is how it dies, and it's all displayed before us in the cycles of the
stars. And so, ultimately, they're getting at the same mystery that the literate Christians
were getting at with their historical narrative of Jesus, but they were using a different
epistemology to get there. Well, appear out of the waters in some form as a symbol of rebirth,
and they are rebirthed from the waters. And so, this is certainly true of Osiris. His body is
cut up and thrown in the waters, and Isis goes around and collects all the body parts out of the
waters until he's reconstituted, except for his phallus. But the whole point is, is you journey
through the waters when you regain your soul. I mean, in the Egyptian afterlife, everybody journeys
in a boat that is being sailed through the sky. In fact, the rowers of the boat tend to be the
planets or some other astrothiological personification. So, the idea of Jesus walking on water story
being a resurrection narrative then links it to other pagan models that existed before Christianity,
where the resurrecting deities appeared out of the water. So, the whole point is, and of course,
the resurrecting figure turns out to be a constellation in the sky. That's Orion. And I went over that,
here I have on this slide, Orion and the Argo. Behind Orion is the constellation of the Argo or the
boat. In the stormy fall months, Orion is seen setting in the west as the sun rises in the east.
The constellation of the Argo or ship is seen sailing on the waters as Orion sets. Orion is
literally walking on the waters as the boat makes its passage across the horizon. I've got this
little graphic here, and that's, you know, the Sea of Galilee. So, literally, if you're looking on the
waters at the Sea of Galilee or the Mediterranean Sea, you would see Orion walking on the waters
at the fourth night of the watch. As the sun rises, he would be descending in the waters while the boat
was floating on the waters. And then we have this reversal. That's the summer and fall months by the
late fall and winter months, which are the stormy months, the months of storm. Orion rises in the
east as the sun sets in the west on winter solstice. Orion is disassociated from the rising sun,
is now seen with the setting sun. You know, in the account of John of Jesus walking on water,
Jesus performs, he walks on the water and then he performs this rather astonishing miracle,
and that is he instantly transports the boat across the shore so that they are out of the
storm and they're instantly safe on the other side of the sea. Right? Well, the point is, is that may
have been, the original metaphor was the disassociation of Orion from the rising sun. He's now
transposed to the other side of the shore. That is, the sun is now setting when Orion sets, whereas
before, the sun was rising when Orion appeared. He's transposed himself across the horizon to the
other shore, which is, you know, from east to west with the rising setting sun. This whole thing,
by the way, is why he's associated with resurrection, because for most of the year,
he's associated with the rising sun, but then for the winter solstice part of the year,
he's associated with the setting sun. And so, and so he's disassociated from the rising sun.
He's now associated with the setting sun at the winter solstice, which is your,
you know, your season of death and rebirth. Right. And then back in the spring, he gets
re-associated with the rising sun. And so, the entire process of the constellation as it appears
with the sun, with the boat, by the way. So, here's another graphic, Ryan at winter solstice,
before Don, on winter solstice, Ryan sets as the ship rises. So, and winter solstice is also where
the, that is the stormy season. And so, you know, I quoted Diodorus, who mentioned that
Caster and Pollux were the stellar saviors who were prayed to by the sailors to abate storms.
And Caster and Pollux are the, you know, that's Gemini, right above Ryan. Gemini or above Ryan.
So, you get this tableau of stars in the sky. Gemini, Orion, Argo, and they all are
variously associated with the sun, either rising or setting, and with storms. The idea is the
entire story of Jesus walking on water could have descended from this complex of astro-theological
situations which are revealed in the sky, which are, you know, are a repetition
of death and rebirth, because Orion is associated at one point with the rising sun, with another
point with the setting sun, only to return with the rising sun. Does that make sense?
Yeah. Are you following me? Yes, so far, but I can't wait until you get to the point about
Peter. What's the implication about participation here? You know, Lord, if it be you,
bit, that I come on the waters to meet you, what's going on there?
Oh, Peter was just to show off. Now, let me, let me, yeah, probably right. You know, I gotta,
I gotta dump that. He was partially, he was partially successful, right? He was partially
successful. I gotta dump it down just for a second here, because my, my slow mind has a hard time
making sure I got this correct. Orion is resurrecting, so to speak, when the sun is rising in the sky.
Now, this is not just talking about one morning, correct? This is talking about
the rising sun through the year, correct? Well, at the time of Jesus, because the stars slowly
shift over time, at the time of Jesus, at the fourth night of the watch, one of the details
all the Gospels give is Jesus walks on the water at the fourth night of the watch,
which is right before dawn. So right before dawn, through the summer and early fall months,
you will see Orion walking on the waters in the east as the sun rises in the west. Okay?
So as the sun rises, Orion is now just on, on the waters, on the horizon. And then, of course,
as the sun breezes the horizon, the stars disappear behind the sunlight, right? By the winter solstice,
this scenario has changed so that Orion appears rising from the waters as the sun, the winter sun
is setting below the waters in the west. Okay? Orion has switched shores, right, from the,
from the sun. Now, in all these systems, guys, you know, the winter solstice sun is, is associated
with death and resurrection. Because that's where the sun turns its path. You know, the sun rises on
different spots on the horizon through the year. And when it rises in its most southerly position,
that's the winter solstice. And then it turns and starts rising north again. And there's a
weather patterns that change as a result of that. I mean, that's our winter. And so death and rebirth
is very often associated with the winter solstice sun. And so when, so the point is the winter
solstice sun is a metaphor for death and rebirth. Orion, I'm going to talk about here in a second,
is also generally the constellation associated with the savior god for death and rebirth. And
there's specific reasons for that. Let me, let me just cap this up. Orion is heavenly shepherd.
Orion was connected with the sun. He transposes the celestial shores as he's seen rising or sitting
on the horizon with the rising and setting sun. Orion was connected with the sea. He was the
figure. He had to cross the great sea to find rebirth. This was the celestial ocean represented
by the southern aquatic constellations. Let's talk about that in a second. Orion was connected with
salvation and rebirth. Several savior gods were represented by the stars of Orion, including
Arceus, Arceus, Arceus, Arceus. So we get these similar patterns. I'm going to get back to your
comment and question, Derek, but I just am reminding listeners from the previous podcast
that we have another motif that turns out to be rather important, and this is the Greek sphinx.
And I cited Heraclitus of Pontus who said that there are three roads that the dead travel
in the next world. One is by Leo, one is by Scorpio, and the other is by Aquarius. Well,
Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius are the iconography of the Greek sphinx. The serpentine tail is
Scorpio. The leonide body is Leo, and the human head is Aquarius. And the Greek sphinx was almost
always found at tombs. That's where they put it. And if Heraclitus is right, then we understand why
they put it at tombs because it was the guardian of the paths of the underworld where the soul found
rebirth. Okay? This is all astral theology. And there's some system being revealed here
that when you die, your soul ascends into the sky and it can take different roads. And in order to
get the correct road, you have to be properly initiated. And if you are, the leonide sphinx
will be your guardian. And if you're not, the leonide sphinx will eat you up. Right? And so
here is the other side of the sky, by the way. Scorpio is on one side of the sky. The other
side of the sky is Taurus, Orion, and Gemina. And so they are also seen as the gates of the dead.
And the reason why, gentlemen, that Orion is a... Well, actually, before I get into the next slide,
I don't know if I answered your question. Did I answer your question, Derek?
Yes, yes. Yeah, it was really basic. Simply wanting to know about the rising and the setting and how
it's connected to the sun and why. But yeah, it's, you know, if you're not familiar with the sky,
this conversation might be a little difficult. So, and it turns out a lot of the people who deal
with astrophiology aren't familiar with the sky. Oh, not good. They make these arguments,
but they never take the arguments anywhere other than, oh yeah, this story is just based off the
stars and it was for agriculture and it had, you know, so it's not true and we don't have to
believe the Bible. Actually, something else is going on entirely. So why would...
John, John, this leonide sphinx, incorporating the features of Leo the Lion,
Scorpio, and the other is Aquarius. Okay, if we looked at those as the cardinal signs,
which we see in Ezekiel and we see in other mythological writings, the one that's missing
is Taurus, the bull. Taurus is the one. Isn't it interesting that the Egyptians were a Taurian
society? The bull perhaps the most revered god. And so if that was a point of reference,
it would make sense that the leonide sphinx would cover all of the others. It's sort of like saying,
okay, well, you got four possible perspectives or points. And wherever you are, you're looking at
the other three. Well, the other three are represented in the leonide sphinx. Am I making
any sense? No, no, that's right. That's right. Look, there's a bull imagery. I mean,
there are bull sphinxes in the Near East. And the cherubim in Ezekiel has four heads,
head of a lion, head of a bull, head of a man, and head of an eagle. It's the four points in the
sky we're talking about. Right. And so the cherubim that guards Eden with a flaming sword is an
astronomical metaphor. It's an astrothiological metaphor for what, you know, the cherubim stood
at the Holy of Holies. The High Priest, when he entered the cubic Holy of Holies, he had to pass
the golden cherubim who stood there, you know, as the guardians of the next world. Well, that's
what this Greek sphinx is doing, standing at the tombs. It's the guardian of the next world,
and the Egyptian sphinx standing at the Great Pyramid is the guardian of the next world. So all
this is being drawn from a similar Cosmo vision that all these religions share. And we have simply
lost the basis of the metaphor for them. They do belong to astronomy, but the roots of them
have been lost. So I'm going to dip our heads down the rabbit hole, and we're just going to take a
peek and see because there are two parts in the sky that are almost always universally mythologized.
Cultures all around the world, it's quite amazing. The cultures all around the world
pick two points in the sky as part of their underworld mythology of rebirth.
The reason why they do that is because the two points they pick are very important. So I will...
So here's point one. This is Orion. Taurus is right above him, and to his right,
Gemini is right above his head. The Argo or ship is behind him, Rys is behind him,
and then there is a long stream of stars that are really hard to see as a constellation,
but that's the constellation of a river, a body of water called the Aridanus. And Orion literally
has his foot on the waters of that constellation. Well, it's really interesting that in the myth
of Heracles, when Heracles finds the secrets of rebirth, he has to sail down the Aridanus.
That's the river he sails down to find the secrets of rebirth. When Jason does the same thing,
he sails down the same river. They're sailing down a constellation. So the river is in the sky.
Interestingly enough, so this is your entrance into the underworld. Heracles and Jason descend
into the underworld on their boat from Orion down the Aridanus to the celestial south pole,
which I would argue is represented by the star Canopus, the boat, the ark. So
you know, just as a parenthetical in Polynesian mythology, the entrance to the underworld is
the star Rigel, which is the foot of Orion in the beginning of the river Aridanus. So the Polynesian
tradition matches the Greek and Egyptian tradition, which is, you know, that's really interesting.
Why is that the case? Well, we're lucky here in the sky as one of the gates to the underworld,
Scorpio, is another gate, which is on the other side of the horizon, right? And then 90 degrees to
our left and right, that's Leo and Aquarius. Those are your four cardinal directions. Well,
Orion is almost universally mythologized as a humanoid figure around the world
and is associated with resurrection. Well, why is that? Well, Orion sits in the sky at a very
interesting place. Do you see this graphic? Do you see that blue line that's going above his club
and transects to the Argo? Oh, yeah. Uh-huh. That's the Milky Way. Okay. I'm just representing that
as a line. The green line is the ecliptic. That's where the planets move, and that's where the Zodiac
is at, right? Right. So where the Milky Way and ecliptic cross was a gate of the dead. And that's
why we are always flying Orion showing up as a god of rebirth because he sits at the crossroads.
He sits at the crossroads between the Zodiac or ecliptic, where the planets are moving,
and the Milky Way, that blue line. The white line is the celestial equator. So Orion is actually in
the center of these three cosmic zones. And so that turns out to be a very important spot in the
sky and why cultures all around the world mythologize it. And remarkably, it tends to be consistently
a constellation of death and rebirth. So according to most of these oral beliefs, the soul
leaves this material world in a sense to the Milky Way through the planets. So it follows this
ecliptic green line until it hits this gate, and then it goes on to the road of souls,
which is the Milky Way, hopefully to paradise. Now, we can make all kinds of arguments. Why would
they think that? Why did they create this complex cosmography and all these stars and constellation?
Truth is, we don't know. I mean, there's going to be, when certain constellations rise, when the
earth is reborn, they'll associate that constellation with rebirth. And so part of the celestial journey
has to do with these heaven-earth correspondences. But part of them are just esoteric. We've lost
them. We don't know how they came up with them, why they came up with them. But we do know they
were there. And Orion, therefore, just sits at this major juncture in the sky. And of course,
below him is that river Eridanus, which is, again, very often part of resurrection mythology.
Actually, everything below that white line, the celestial equator, is the absuit. That's the
ocean of the underworld. When Gilgamesh crosses the Great Sea, he's crossing. Here's where he's
moving. He's moving from Orion down to the celestial south pole, I would argue. Probably
to the island of Vut and Episteme, which is probably Canopus. Can't confirm that. That's a
hypothesis. But we are dealing with an astrophilological model. And everything below the white line
is thought to be the salt water, the absuit. Everything in the northern celestial sphere is
thought to be the eternal realm, the sweet water. And everything in between, that's the
ecliptic. That's the earth. That's the material realm. And so Orion, therefore, sits between
right in the center of all these zones and, therefore, is personified as the god in control
of these three zones. And thus, he tends to be a representation of a resurrecting god.
John, Orion reminds me of kind of like a man who's guarding waters at a paddle wheel. I can't
help but think of the image of a wheel. You know the types of wheels that were on the steamboats
long, long ago, those paddle wheels? Imagine one with maybe 12 compartments, sort of like the Zodiac.
You have a flowing river. And the purpose of that paddle wheel is to direct the waters of the river.
So it's almost as if the river goes by, the paddle wheel will say, okay, we're going to challenge
that. We're going to channel that water so it can be used. Orion is there to receive the waters
as they come off the compartments of the paddle wheel so that they're useful. I wonder if at some
level, man, people are thinking about this, if that's in our psychology and are deeply embedded
in there. And we actually have used it for architectural design and things that we do.
That's probably true. I mean, like human beings have been around for at least 100,000 years,
probably 200,000 years. And so we have tens of thousands of years of oral thinking that have
sort of, even though our brains have rewired and we think differently, we have a very long
tradition of our brain synapses working in a specific way. And just because we invent science
doesn't mean we can walk away from our evolutionary roots. So I hear what you're saying. What you
said actually sparked an idea and that is this green, that blue line is the Milky Way and that
was seen as a river or even a ocean in the sky. Oceanus, according to Heraclides, is the disc of
the river, of the Milky Way surrounding the earth, right? And so, but the Milky Way was seen as a
river. What most people don't understand is that green line, the zodiac, or it's called the ecliptic,
that's where all the planets move across. The planets are always on the same plane in the sky.
If they're never not in that plane, you've got about 30 minutes to live because that means the
earth is off its rotation lines. So enjoy the view for 30 minutes. They're always along that plane
of the sky. And interestingly enough, we don't even know this anymore, but as the planets orbit the
sun, they leave behind dust particles, okay? And the sunlight reflects off those dust particles.
So in a perfectly dark sky, there is a band of light that follows across the sky around the
zodiac. It's called the zodiacal light. So in a perfectly dark sky, you'll see a band of light of
the Milky Way and another band of light around the zodiac. And they intersect right here. The two
rivers intersect right here. And so, and of course, the planets are following along that band of light
of the zodiac or the ecliptic. And so when the Egyptians portray them as paddlers in boats,
ferrying the soul to the next world, you're actually looking up at the sky. And that's what
you're seeing. You're seeing this river of light that the planets are moving along and they connect
with the Milky Way, which is the entrance into the eternal realm, right? And so this is actually
viewable in the sky, but we can't see that there's too much light pollution. I mean, down in Southern
Newtide, I actually have seen the zodiacal light several times. I've seen the aurora borealis in
Southern Newtide. I mean, imagine that. That's amazing that it's that far south. But the point is,
is that green line and blue line turn out to have visible markers in the sky as rivers of light.
And so that was thought to be, you know, pathways out of this material realm. Well, there's all
kinds of, I don't know what my next slide is. Okay, so here's the celestial sphere. There's, oh,
there's all kinds of the celestial cosmography of the soul in the next slide is complex. We can't
quite make it out. No one really understands what the Egyptians were thinking. I don't think the
Egyptians understood because, you know, over 3,000 years, things evolve, things change, they lost
some things, they dropped some things, they added some things. But what we do know is that the entire
sphere of the heavens was part of this grand journey of the soul-defined rebirth in a lot of
these astrothiological systems. Okay, and so the soul would begin either at Orion or sometimes
Scorpio. Those were your gates of death. Scorpio, by the way, is the other constellation that exists
where the ecliptic and Milky Way intersect. Okay, so those are your two gates into the underworld
in the next, in most mythologies, and it's because that's where the ecliptic and the Milky Way
intersect. Those don't change. Precession changes where the sun is in relation to the stars,
but those two junctures are always the same. Okay, and so they're mythologized the world over
because of their positions in the sky. Well, the soul in Egyptian, in Greco-Roman, in Mesopotamian,
found rebirth by journeying from the ecliptic to the Milky Way, but it always had to find rebirth
in the underworld. It had to descend in the waters. And so you get this motif of Gilgamesh crossing
and impasseable sea, Rama passing and impasseable sea, Heracles passing and impasseable sea.
This is in Native American and Mayan and Aztec, the poplavu, the heroes have to pass
a great body of water. So we get these motifs and somehow they're associating finding the
secret to rebirth in the stellar south. And if you can do that, then your soul ascends to the
stellar north. This is where we start getting into Leo and Ursa Major in the Big Dipper,
where you will find your throne and crown of immortality. So, you know, different cultures
and religions had different cosmographies, but almost universally they were cosmographies. Religion
was expressed asterothiologically because the sky was the printed press for oral people. So,
this is how they conceived it. This is the itch that was scratched. Here's what's happening in the
sky. That's the ultimate truth. We're going to pattern our theology after that. All this has
been forgotten. Now we pattern our theology off of tax analytical thinking, philosophy,
you know, science and materialistic thinking, which our theology follows. And so we simply
don't think this way anymore. So, anyway, just as a recap, when we're dealing with astrothiology
and rebirth, there's just a couple of things we always have to remember. The underworld was in
the sky. And you know what? A lot of scholars don't know that. A lot of scholars go around and
they think the underworld is, you know, in caves represented as underground temples and they were.
But to most of these cultures, the underworld was always in the sky. It was a heavenly underworld.
It was almost always related to a great sea, which in the Near East was the Abzu or Abzu,
but that was the part of the sky in the stellar south below the Slash Leap Quaker.
The secrets of rebirth were contained in the underworld. In other words, you had to enter
that part of the sky, your soul did. And it was a very dangerous journey. And for whatever reason,
everyone in all these world religions thought this is not an easy thing to do and a lot of
people aren't going to make it. You need to be richly initiated. You need to know the correct path.
You need to have a guardian that's got your back. You need to have the ancestors on your side.
You know, there's different ways that they had people help them in the next world.
Yes, real quick on that note, because something just, I've had a couple of thoughts come,
yeah, let go because it was getting so juicy. Right here, the secrets of rebirth, right?
You must be born of water and then of spirit, right? Yes. Jesus teaching a mystery concept here
that was probably foreign to a strict Torah Orthodox Jew, so to speak. Someone who wasn't
practicing the mystery religions are at least aware of these concepts, maybe?
All right, hold on to your underwear, gentlemen. Being reborn out of the water is the equivalent,
Christian equivalent of the soul ascending into the underworld sea to find the secrets of birth.
Receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost or being born from the fire is the equivalent of the soul
ascending to the northern sky to obtain their crown of eternity. So Christian liturgy is a
refashioning of this ancient astrothiological cosmology. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, good show. Who
do I write this? My god. This is good. I mean, really good. That is what it is. But that, again,
let me finish this and let me just give a few points. The secrets of rebirth were contained
in the underworld. Everybody in mythological systems who wanted to be reborn after death,
they had to descend into the underworld. That's where it was, right? And as a Christian,
you have to descend into the underworld by baptism, okay? You're descending in the waters.
The tomb was the womb. To regain rebirth, required one soul to descend the specific
locales in the underworld. Whoops, I accidentally tapped that twice. There were different roads
or paths one could take, generally three roads. Cerberus, the underworld dog in Greek mythology
and Harry Potter, he has three heads. He has three heads because there are three roads. In each head
guards a road in the underworld. One road led to Tartarus. This is the Greek tradition. Another,
to the mortal realm, that's where we live in a third of the paradox, okay? And so souls were
constantly on these roads, being born into the mortal realm and leaving the mortal realm and
then taking a fork in the road, either to Tartarus or to Paradise, depending if you knew the correct
ways, if you were correctly ritualistic, right? So in most underworld mythologies, there's either
two or three roads in the next world. So, and then Paradise or the eternal realm was associated
with the stellar north, while the underworld was associated with the stellar south. Various
cosmographies located the realm of souls in the Milky Way. So either way, you would end up in the
Milky Way, if to become a star in some traditions, you would become a god and a star and live in
the eternal realm as a god or as a star forever and ever. And various planet stars and constellations
were markers for paths and gates for this celestial voyage. So here is, as far as rebirth is concerned,
here is the broad general template of astral theology. And a couple of things. One,
when I listen to people talk about astral theology, they never address any of this.
You know, they say it's agriculture, it's the stars rising and setting,
that's the basis of the story. And so I'm like, well, actually no. Two, okay, so we just talked
about Christian baptism being a repetition of this, right? So the metaphor has changed,
the liturgy changed. In the old days, by the way, they still baptized, they anointed people,
by washing and anointing and cleansing them through baptism and through other washing and
anointings. But yeah, basically the text replaced all of astral theology. And so everything was
simplified into a couple of basic liturgies. And all the other liturgies were basically
Roman liturgies of the Roman Empire. And so all this stuff gets dropped because this stuff is
associated with the temple, with your temple cult and with oral societies. And so that just
slowly gets drowned out. You know, the Jews lose it. And you know, there's an argument to be made
that they were first century Christians actually had this model in their theology. But it doesn't
survive to when the Roman Empire takes over the Christian church. By the fourth century, it's gone.
And so I'm going to talk about that for the second half of this podcast.
So the point is, okay, so let's say Christian baptism is a reworking of what we're looking at here.
Good, that means it's been retained. The theology for thousands of years, the mythology for thousands
of years has been retained in Christianity. And by the way, both these liturgies are
really going after the exact same thing, the mystery of rebirth, right? Okay, we're doing it
from different angles. We're not, it's no longer attached to the sky, it's now attached to a text
into a baptismal plant into the ecclesiastical authority of the church. So it's different.
But they're both addressing the mysteries of death and rebirth. They're just doing it from
different epistemologies because we live in different epistemologies. Right, right. Any questions?
Absolutely. Okay, well, I've got one. What the hell's in that bag?
What? You got me really. Hey, I told you, Luther, we didn't.
You better tell him, we're not going to move on until you see this head.
I totally think that this is going, okay, so let me go back to Orion and you have the Zodiac
bell and you have the Milky Way River or the ocean. Well, yeah, it was a river. They're both
crossing, you know, almost like across and there's Orion guarding, if you will, these are the fire
cherubim guarding Eden or another way to look at this is what I think is interesting is that when
you look at Jesus and you, there's a lot of Jewish concepts that Jesus was an angelic figure,
a godly type of figure, kind of like a Christophany kind of concept in the Old Testament idea.
And that would make sense astrothiologically, especially in light of him, if he is the Orion
figure, so to speak, okay, if he is this heavenly figure in this mythology about the heavens. And
so when we get into the New Testament, Jesus says, is it not written year gods? These interesting,
almost heretical ideas, you would think reading these texts coming from these Torah Orthodox
strict guys, but he has, you know, he has these magi leading the way to his path of his birth.
He's got, there's so many little elements of astrothiology and then is it not written that
they would be sons of God? Like that would make them gods, like you just said, in the heavens.
And the stars are equated with that in Job. And it's like, I could see exactly what you're saying,
but I wanted to say that just saying, they're equating Orion with Jesus. I kind of want to hear
more of the story explained, like how the myth is explained in the biblical text somewhat on that
cross. There's something, Jesus is Orion in this situation. And is he doing something or performing
something specifically? Like, I know one thing that came to mind, maybe I'll throw your way is
some, he's going to resurrect, you know, or is it the father? Either way, there's this resurrection
to eternal damnation and resurrection to eternal life. It seems like he's taking their souls out
of the sea, which is a heavenly celestial body, and he's taking them and he's putting them where
they belong or guiding their paths that they chose. Could you go in a little bit of elaboration?
Because that's really interesting that revelation talks about that the sea gave up the dead.
Well, what the hell does that mean, you know?
