It's official. Jesus and the Dead Sea Scroll course is out. 4k videos, 10 lectures that are
videos, 50 page pamphlet loaded with information for those who purchased the course. Also, he's
planning on doing follow-up Zoom calls with the students hanging out with them. Interacting with
people, not just taking your questions and stuff like through the chat, actually being able to
answer your questions through dialogue. He has done this on the Mark course and now he's doing it
with Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls. He's one of the few scholars who actually got to see them
before they were even published. And he's been studying the Dead Sea Scrolls for over 30 years
now. Since Isaman brought them and leaked them to the market, he's one of the first eyes who ever
saw them. So stay tuned because you can hear it from him on why this course is so important and
why so many people are intrigued on wanting to understand them even more. I hope you sign up,
do so in the link down in the description. It helps our channel out. I really appreciate it as well.
Put a lot of work into editing this material and bringing these courses to you. So everyone,
every mom and pop, every son and daughter, everyone who's at home, who can't afford going to these
colleges and actually signing up to take these courses can do so here remotely at their comfort
of their own home. And some people just don't have the accessibility or capability. They're
affordable. You'll own them for life. They're extremely high quality. And you'll get to join
the Zoom conversations with Dr. Tabor. So let us know in the comments section. Check it out.
Links in the description. I hope to see you there. We're looking forward to seeing some feedback.
This course goes deep. Thanks.
I wanted to give you this personal introduction to my new course, Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls.
What a title. Jesus, the historical Jesus. I spent four decades of my academic career
studying the historical figure of Jesus and what he was all about. And the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the oldest trove of ancient Jewish manuscripts ever found preserved for over 2000 years
in the Judean desert on the lowest spot on earth, the Dead Sea. Now, what do the two
have to do with one another? Let me start with a little riddle or quiz. If I describe to you
an ancient Jewish group from the Roman period, and here's how I described it,
an apocalyptic messianic group. They're preparing the way in the wilderness. If you ask them what
they're doing, they quote Isaiah 43. They say, we're the new covenant people. We're the people of
new covenant. We are children of light. That's what they call themselves. They practice dipping
in water, running water preferably, as a right of initiation into their community. They follow a
prophet, a teacher, they call him, a righteous teacher, who they believe is like a new Moses,
bringing a new view of the Torah in a new covenant. They emphasize the Holy Spirit.
They're led by a council of 12 and an inner group of three. They're told to sell their
possessions and they put everything into a common treasury, and they practice a kind of communal
living and share with everyone in the group and consider them all brothers and sisters.
They don't like the Jewish temple that Herod the Great built, and they don't like the way it's
being run by the priests. In fact, they refer to the temple as utterly corrupt, and the priests who
are running the whole show are like a brood of vipers to these people. They consider prayer as
their sacrifice. They don't need the temple, and they consider themselves as a temple of God.
Now, I listed 12 things there, and you know what? Who was I describing? Well, I was describing the
Dead Sea Scroll Group, but every one of those 12 apply to Jesus of Nazareth, from what we can
reconstruct are certainly to His movement and those who followed Him. Now, I could add another
dozen, and in this course we go into even more as we compare, but those are the polarities of the
Course. Here's Jesus, here are the Dead Sea Scrolls. What do they have in common? Now, let me point out
if you've heard of Pharisees and Sadducees, they're mentioned in the New Testament,
not a single one of those characteristics apply to either of them. So, I mean, these really stand
out, and if they characterize the Jesus movement and they characterize the Dead Sea Scroll movement,
and they're not the same movement, which I don't think they are, then they're 150 years apart,
at least. What do we make of that? And that's what this course explores. The Dead Sea Scrolls are a
vast library preserved for over 2,000 years. Probably over 800 volumes were in this collection.
We don't have them all, and many are just represented by little fragments and pieces,
but we can tell that they were once a scroll or a book. But some of the scrolls are fairly complete.
We've got the Isaiah Scroll that's a complete copy of the Book of Isaiah, but you're probably
thinking, if it's 2,000 years earlier than our Isaiah that we have before the Dead Sea Scrolls,
when was that dated? Well, that's the Maseratic text of the Hebrew Bible, and it dates when
1,000 CE or AD. And now we have a copy of Isaiah that's from before the beginning of the first
century. We usually dated about 1st century BCE at some point. So, you certainly want to take a look
at the differences, if there are any, between the Isaiah copy and one copied for 1,000 years.
Did some changes come in? Is it like anything else we know that's very ancient? All of that is
addressed in this course. We have an entire lecture on the Dead Sea Scroll Bible, as we could call it.
So, in the 10 lessons, we cover all of these questions. What are the scrolls? What are their
contents? We analyze the group and their beliefs, and we compare them to what we know of the Jesus
Movement. And I'm not saying it's totally similar. It certainly isn't. There are some stark differences,
and we explore those. And you can really get a handle on these two forms of apocalyptic Judaism
in the late 2nd Temple period. I think the number one thing that most characterizes them
is they think the end has drawn very near, and they talk about the end of days coming.
They say things like, this generation will not pass until all these things are fulfilled.
Am I quoting Jesus as he's quoted in Mark 13, or am I quoting the Dead Sea Scrolls? I'm giving you
a version of both. One thing you might not realize, when I started studying the Dead Sea Scrolls in
graduate school, this was the slim little volume that I used. Look at that. Dead Sea Scrolls in
English. Here's the volume we're going to use in the course. And what happened? Well, in 1991,
the unpublished scrolls were suddenly released. So, the scrolls came out in December 1991,
the photographs. And guess where I was in January 1992, as the year turned,
just as the scrolls came out. I was at Qumran for a month. I was working with Dr. Eisenman,
and there was a lot of controversy stirred up when these scrolls came out. And I'll tell you
all of those adventures. I've got some PBS footage, it's archive footage from 30 years ago.
You'll get to see a younger James Tabor, very excited about the scrolls. At the moment,
I first was able to view some of the ones that I ended up actually publishing, first of all.
So, there's so much in the course. There's a huge course pack you get. It's over 50 pages of material,
all kinds of PDF documents you can download, videos, all sorts of extra things, and of course,
the lectures themselves. So, sign up for the course. If this sounds interesting, we're going to
have a set of Zoom meetings for those who sign up, and we'll meet monthly. And we will talk about
the scrolls and people taking the course and questions. You'll have your own invitation,
not a webinar where you just listen to me talk and get to ask some questions in a chat.
Now, everybody can come on screen and we'll all be together. So, I hope you all will take a look
at this. You can browse and see all the features of the course. It's really fabulous. I've been
working on this for the last three months, trying to put it together. I want to make it
absolutely the best quality. And I want to thank the Lamberts, Derek and Ryan of MythVision Podcast
for making this possible because they've done such an amazing job in putting it together.
So, happy studying, happy reading of the Dead Sea Scrolls. Take care, everyone.
