I was a hardcore fundamentalist, full preterist for many years, when I was excommunicated
from the Presbyterian Church for saying that the second coming of Jesus already happened.
That's right.
I believe that the Redeemer didn't need any redeeming because he did come back and he
kept his word when he said, some of you standing here will not taste death before the Son of
Man comes in his kingdom or with his angels to repay each man according to their deeds.
I found all of these expectations of the soon end in the New Testament, but I couldn't
see that the Savior needed saving himself.
The Redeemer needed redeeming himself because when he said these things, he was wrong.
The Apostle Paul was also wrong about the end.
He expected that this would happen sometime soon, within his own lifetime, and it didn't
happen.
So we pick apart these ideas in this episode with legendary scholar John J. Collins, and
we deal with very basic fundamentals to show you that movements and ideas like full preterism
are found wanting.
Yeah, I get it, they want to save the Savior, but in reality, it's really wrong.
We are MythFusion.
I'm so stoked again today to have Dr. John J. Collins on a legend in Hebrew Bible scholarship.
I mean, I've got, if I can brag just a second, I only, and I only grabbed a couple.
I got a couple books here.
Some of these are really old.
In fact, they will one day probably be worth a lot of money because they came directly
from your office, Dr. Collins.
If you don't mind us mythologizing you when you're long gone, you might even say there
was an apotheosis, who knows, we'll figure it out, but welcome back to MythFusion.
Glad to be back.
So Dr. Collins, you've been on quite a few times and our audience mostly knows who you
are, but for those who don't, can you tell us just briefly your credentials and what
makes you an expert in this field?
I got my PhD from Harvard in 1972.
I wrote a dissertation then on the Sibyline oracles of Egyptian Judaism, but then I got
into working on apocalypticism and I wrote an early monograph and Daniel and a form critical
commentary and Daniel did a big hermenea commentary and Daniel came out in the early nineties.
Then I taught for a year in Dublin and then came back to the States, taught at various
places, wrote redame for six years, University of Chicago for nine, and then for 21 at Jail
Divinity School.
And retired there.
Just retired last year, but I'm actually teaching a course this semester to fill in until my
replacement arrives.
Wow.
Yeah, yeah.
I was there the week you retired and we interviewed last year.
So it was really interesting and thank you for that time and your time today.
I wanted to cover some of the basics here while we dive into the New Testament because I feel
like we can't quite know the New Testament if we don't back up sometimes and figure out
where this idea comes from and the idea is apocalypticism.
Can you tell us what that is?
How is apocalypticism related to eschatology?
And we'll go from there.
Okay.
Eschatology, first of all, is potentially at least the easier of the two.
Its eschatology is talk about the end.
Now, there are a lot of books on eschatology there have been for nearly 2000 years.
A lot of times what they're talking about is the fate of the soul after death.
Sometimes the end of the world, but there are both those aspects to it.
Now, you can also talk about eschatology in the Hebrew prophets, the prophet Amos, for
example, says the end will come upon my people Israel.
But that's the way the end is now coming upon the Ukraine.
You know, it's a political military invasion, but that's what he was talking about.
And so, you know, there were lesser ends, so to speak.
Now, in apocalypticism, word apocalypse means revelation, just the Greek word for revelation,
but it tends to get used just with reference to a particular kind of revelation.
By and large, the kind of thing that resembles what you find in the book of Revelation in
the New Testament, that's where the word comes from.
I don't mean that that's where the whole genre comes from, but that's where the word comes
from.
Now, the revelation is also called a prophecy, and a lot of the material in it is about the
future.
But it's a different kind of prophecy from Amos or Isaiah.
And one of the big differences between them is that in the books we call apocalypses,
first of all, they're all highly visionary, well, some prophecy is visionary, too.
But you hardly get any oracles, you know, thus set the Lord.
You get a few of those in the book of Revelation, but you're hard to get any of them in the
Jewish apocalypses.
So it's a much more visual form of revelation, and just so that they don't harangue the
reader and say, you should do this, you should not do that, if you do this, you'll be cursed.
What they do is describe a situation.
So they might show you a vision of God coming down in judgment, or of the dead being raised
and taken to a judgment scene, and then you draw your own conclusions from that.
That's more the way it works.
But beyond that, the books that we call apocalyptic first appear in Judaism in probably the second
century BC, possibly some parts go back a little bit earlier than that.
So it's a Hellenistic phenomenon.
OK, OK, this is getting somewhere, because I guess what we're going to be doing is as
we go along, is kind of seeing what is the New Testament doing?
And that's the big difference between apocalypticism and prophecy isn't just a matter of the form.
The form is tweaked, but more important is the content.
And I mentioned three things in particular.
One is that history and human affairs are, to a great degree, decided by supernatural beings.
Angels, demons, what have you.
I could give you an example of that for the book of Daniel.
When the Jews and Greeks are phrased together, there's really a battle between the archangel
Michael and the Prince of Greece in heaven.
That's the way they see it.
Secondly, they tend to view history as a unit.
And that means that it can come to an end.
And they do talk about the end of history in a way that the earlier prophets did not.
Now, the end of history doesn't mean that there won't be any history after it.
It means something, some radical change, a radical change in the conditions of human life.
And that the third thing, which is in many ways, I think, the most decisive difference
is that it assumes that there will be a judgment of the dead.
So resurrection, not necessarily bodily resurrection, but a judgment of the dead.
Before that, you went to Sheol, but you were good or bad.
And now you could go up.
You could go down.
OK, this is going to lead us into the direction.
I'd love to go judgment of the dead.
So I'm going to bring up a couple of parikope here, if you don't mind.
Let's go.
I my buddy, Stephen Nelson, I have to give a shout out to him
because he kicks butt on doing these.
And really, I think it's fascinating to have visuals for people to learn, like an example.
Well, and it may not take you but two sentences to answer.
And we can move on to another one because I have a few that I'd love to get through.
In First Corinthians, Paul writes, for example, I think God has exhibited us, the apostles,
last of all, all as men, condemned to death because we have become a spectacle to the world,
both to angels and to mankind.
We see this notion in Paul's writings in First Corinthians as well.
Do you not know that the saints will judge the world?
And after the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases?
Do you not know that we are to judge angels to say nothing of ordinary matters?
So just as an example, and we'll pop back to get into the next parikope.
What is Paul?
What does he mean by you will judge angels?
What does it mean to judge the world?
Because some people I know that come from the background that I have, for example,
they're called Preterist.
They want to make world mean covenant people or world mean just Israel or some limited scope.
What does Paul mean?
I don't think Paul intends a limited scope.
I think he really means judge the world.
Now, by that, what he means is that there will be a big universal judgment.
And that the the early Christians, the ones he's calling holy ones, will be on the jury.
Simple as that.
And the angels, the angels that are being judged, those are actual divine beings.
And they will be above them.
OK, cool. Yeah, we're on the same page.
I would say, though, that you don't get that idea very much.
Right. It's the minor point that's kind of thrown in and passing.
OK, next parikope, then.
We're in Hebrews now.
But as it is, he appeared once for all at the end of the ages
to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
What is meant by the end of the ages here, Dr.
Collins?
That's what we would otherwise call the end of history.
Now, what happens after it is another matter.
But it's the point that history is building up to and at which God intervenes.
And there is a big judgment.
So in the book of Daniel, you have four kingdoms, supposedly four beasts
coming up out of the sea.
Well, these are each an age.
And now you come to the end of the ages
and you have the showdown and the judgment.
Now, you see, in in some apocalypses, I think it is.
And maybe Daniel is one of them, I think, and life goes on on earth
after the judgment.
But in other apocalypses, you know, there's really a new creation.
The old earth and the old heaven are wrapped up and put away.
And everything, behold, they make all things new, says in Revelation.
May I may I bring us to that pericope for a second, because that is an interesting one.
I wanted we're in the Gospels now and I want to skip to this one.
Nobody can really see it very well.
But I just want to like emphasize for the audience to know in Matthew 24,
Mark 13, Luke 21, what I like to call the synoptic apocalypse,
it seems, or maybe apocalypse isn't the right term.
I just kind of call it this.
He talks about heaven and earth will pass away.
Now, there are some people, some people who want to say heaven and earth
is not heaven and earth and that it's a covenant people or some redefinition.
What is meant by heaven and earth in Matthew, Luke and and Mark?
And if I may add a caveat to give you a little deeper probe.
What is going on in these passages?
Because the people think Jesus said, these are the signs of the end of the age.
Here we are with the end of the age again and heaven and earth will pass away.
Then all things will be new, like a new heaven and new earth.
This is the idea that's going to come.
They believe that that Matthew 24, Luke 21 and Mark 13 was fulfilled.
It actually happened.
So they find a way to package.
Yeah. And that's the only the only reason that they interpreted that way is to save it.
Because obviously, if you take it that he meant when he said heaven and earth,
he meant heaven and earth.
Well, it didn't pass away at the time they were expecting it to pass away.
Hasn't yet.
So but but you know, it's their argument is an argument of convenience.
Or maybe even an argument of necessity, because they don't want to admit
that the prophecy was not fulfilled.
Well put, well put.
Thank you so much.
So once again, here we are.
I'd like to ask you this quite an interesting question.
I do think this is interesting.
We giving the model of early Christianity that is typically a consensus view.
I think it's consensus.
I could be wrong about this.
So please don't take me to the bank, but that the idea that Christianity started
out Jewish like only Jewish people and Gentiles start to find their way in.
We kind of have a model, a fictional one yet, but a model in acts painting this picture.
But in this, in Matthew, we see that you will sit also on 12 thrones,
judging the 12 tribes of Israel.
Now, some people want to equate where Paul talks about you will judge the angels
and an angel can be a human messenger to say that the angels are the 12 tribes of Israel.
But why doesn't Mark mention this 12 tribes of Israel?
Maybe you can get a little deep into the pericope here.
Well, I'm not sure I have an answer as to why it mentions the 12 tribes of Israel.
So, you know, they will presumably sit at the jewellery.
Judging all the Israelites, but I don't know anything in the Gospels that would
lead me to think that those were the only people getting judged.
You know, maybe these were the ones that the Jesus followers were best qualified to judge.
But I surely do not think that this was just a metaphor for the judgment of Israel.
You know, I think there are a number of British scholars who have tended to that kind of
interpretation and Tom Wright, I think, does.
He's a very popular influential writer.
Can get him on some time, baby.
But I just don't think it's right.
Now, are you speaking of the angels and the Israelites here?
Well, I'm saying angels are heavenly beings.
Heaven and earth are heaven and earth.
Heaven and earth are heaven and earth.
And resurrection of the dead is resurrection of the dead.
You know, it's not a metaphor for something else.
Wow. Now, what if one's pushing back and they said, but look at Ezekiel, Dr. Collins.
It's a metaphor for Israel's resurrection and it isn't taken literal.
Yeah. And in Ezekiel, they tell you that.
And there is a change that explains that it is that.
So it's almost like the idea.
I don't want to get off into the rabbit trail, but the change does happen over time.
The idea of resurrection does evolve.
Oh, yes.
Okay. Yes, definitely.
And in Ezekiel, and I think also maybe in Isaiah 26, it is a metaphor for the restoration.
Of Israel.
But then, you know, in Daniel, that the wise were raised up, then shine like the stars forever and ever.
And the forever and ever is men seriously.
So forever means forever.
Yeah.
Now, they had words that meant that, right?
It wasn't just to the end of your life.
Yeah. So, admittedly, they probably thought of forever as just a very, very, very long time.
Right. Okay.
I don't think they had a concept of eternity.
The ways evolved later on.
I think they just thought of it as a time where you can't imagine the end of it.
Okay.
There's a passage in one of the books of Enoch that says that the fallen angels think that they will live forever and that each of them will live 500 years.
It's 500 years forever.
Yeah.
We take it.
I wish I didn't get rid of the pericapies that actually deal with that because there's some that it mentions forever and ever.
Let me get you to think about them.
By the first century, though, do you think they have this, this idea is a very long time, even if they don't have eternity in mind?
That's right.
Okay.
But it's forever and ever.
It's like stretching out so that you can see an end to it.
Well put.
Thank you so much.
Okay.
We are moving on into Acts for a second here.
And in Acts, there's this funny place.
I call it funny.
I love this chapter.
Paul is just moved by the spirit.
He goes in front of all of these Epicureans and Stoics and he has to let them know.
And he just says, look, I see all these idols you got.
And I see that you're very religious and devout.
And he says, you know, I found among them this altar with the inscription to an unknown God.
What therefore you worship as unknown.
This I proclaim to you.
The God who made the world and everything in it.
Now, let me, I just want to pause as we go just to get your clarification.
The God who made the world and everything in it.
Does that mean exactly what that says?
Yep.
There's not anything that God did.
No reason to think it doesn't.
Yeah.
Okay.
He who is Lord of heaven and earth, heaven and earth is above us or everything encompassing
us and above us.
And then of course earth is.
Yeah.
Okay.
He does not live in shrines made by human hands.
I think that's self, you know, evident, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed
anything himself having giving all life and breath and all things he made from one person
and entire human race.
Is that one person Adam?
Yep.
Okay.
To inhabit the entire face of the earth is this.
This is Adam and all mankind on the planet.
That's what they told.
To inhabit the entire face of the earth having a lot of presets times and the boundaries
of places of the places they would live to seek God and perhaps to eat to reach out for
each.
I'm sorry.
And to reach out for and find him though indeed he is not far from each one of us for in him
we live and this is where he quotes a pagan poet.
I love this part.
And he says your own poets have said for we two are his offspring.
Then he goes on to say we ought not because ought not consider the deity to be like gold
or silver or stone formed by the art of imagination of mortals.
So God having overlooked the times of ignorance, which seems to be the idea that they they
didn't know beforehand that this was not allowed.
And now Paul saying, listen, you got a turn from your idols.
Anyway, the times of ignorance now commands all people everywhere to repent.
Does he really mean everyone?
Yeah.
Okay.
Because he has fixed a day on which he will judge.
I know this seems common sense, but I really want to get you on record just clarifying this.
He has fixed a day on which he will judge inhabited world in righteousness by a man whom
he has appointed.
Now, he's telling these pagans, if I can use the term, that he's going to judge the world
and everyone needs to repent and turn from their idols and worse than one true God.
This is like.
Amazing thing is some people believed him.
I love you.
You're just, oh man.
But this is what they believed.
And this is just clearly in the Greek obvious that this is what's being said.
I just wanted to clarify.
Okay.
It would do it would do damage to try and reinterpret this to mean one man, meaning Abraham or one
man, meaning Israel or Moses.
Yep.
Yep.
Okay.
Cool.
I'm just happy to have you here to, to deal with stuff that simple.
Now I wanted to, this is a side trail for one moment before we get into second Peter three
that I wanted to just get your clarification on.
This is where your wonderful wife has written.
And when I emailed her, she said, I'm in retirement.
You need to just bother my husband.
So I'm sure you're well aware.
Probably spent countless nights talking to her about revelation.
And I wanted to ask a simple question.
The 144,000 Israelites at Revelation seven and the great multitude that no one could
number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and language.
Are they the same group?
Were they separate?
No, I don't think so.
I think the 144,000 are the Israelites.
Now, you know, I don't think any of these numbers should be pressed.
Right.
I think it's a symbolic number.
It's a rounded number.
You know, it's 12 times 12,000.
And so because you have 12 tribes, you have the going 12s.
And you know, like forever, this is such a big number.
That's, you know, it's kind of out of sight.
But then after that, a great multitude that no one cut number from every nation and all tribes.
And that's okay.
Revelation 14 kind of repeats this.
It's repetitive.
Same thing.
Two groups.
Yeah.
Make it sure.
Okay.
Those who dwell every nation, tribe, Kendrick and tongue.
And then we have this interesting thing in Revelation 21.
Some of the 12 gates, 12 angels, 12 tribes.
And finally, you talk, there's this part here.
It talks about this lamp is the lamb by its light.
Will the nations walk and the kings of the earth will bring the glory.
Is this that, that idea throughout the Hebrew Bible and other literature where in the end,
the nations will come and recognize Mount Zion.
Like your God, except this is a new heavens, a new earth with the new Jerusalem.
Right.
That's right.
And, you know, in Isaiah chapter two, it's Mount Zion was lifted up and the Torah goes out.
The Torah is the light.
And for, for John and Revelation, it's the lamb, which is Jesus.
Excellent.
You are awesome.
Okay.
This book right here, among many, he's written many books.
Oftentimes it's very repetitive, but nonetheless, it is the element shall melt with fervent
heat.
And if you see that picture, ladies and gentlemen, this is supposed to be a picture of Jerusalem
in the first century burning up.
And so there is a group that is called full preterist.
I came out of this group as a fundamentalist Christian because I wanted to save the savior.
That's what I wanted to do because I couldn't see him fail.
So cognitive dissonance causes reinterpretation, which forces you, as you said earlier, to
find ways to make it work.
And it's a clever position.
James Stewart Russell, have you ever heard of him?
I'm not sure.
I may have, but I don't have any clear impression of him.
He was one of the major proponents who wrote quite an interesting book about this idea.
But this second Peter three passage, if I could read it to you and kind of tease out
what they think, and then maybe you tell me what is really going on, what is really expected
by the authors here.
He talks about, this is my second letter written to you, which is probably not written by Peter.
So someone else is writing this probably because the end did not happen, but we'll get there.
In both of them, I've aroused you your sincere mind by way of reminder that you should remember
the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through
your apostles.
First of all, you must understand this, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing.
Following their own passions and saying, where is the promise of his coming forever since
the fathers fell asleep?
All things have continued as they were from the beginning of creation.
They deliberately ignore this fact that by the word of God, heavens existed long ago
and the earth formed out of water by means of water.
Through which the word that then existed was deluged with water and perished.
But by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist have been stored up for fire,
being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.
But do not ignore this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord, one day is as a thousand
years and a thousand years as one day.
The Lord is not slow about his promise as some count slowness, but is forebearing toward
you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance, et cetera,
et cetera.
It'll come like a day and a night and he says, then the heavens will pass away with a loud
noise and the elements will be dissolved with fire and the earth and the works that are
upon it will be burned up.
Now they say, and then I want you to give your what's really going on here.
This is probably, I mean, he's a church of Christ, you know, preterist.
They say that this is the Jerusalem temple.
Heaven and earth is most likely the covenant people of God.
They find this passage where Moses says, give ear, oh heavens, and listen, oh earth, and
he spoke to the Israelites.
And they literally like make that heaven and earth the Israelites.
So they do that.
They say the temple is what was melted and its elements were melted in 70 AD.
So they make all of these arguments to make this fit.
What's actually happening in 2 Peter 3?
Global warming on a grand scale.
If you want, actually, I think Ann Coulter said the real global warming, but she was
referring, she meant hell, but I mean, quite literally, it is a universal configuration
is what they're talking about.
And this idea was around for a while.
You also get it in the Stoics.
You also get it in Persian eschatology, the idea that the mountains will melt, become
like a stream of molten metal.
And you get it a few times in the Hebrew Bible, but then you begin to get it a lot in some
apocalyptic and quasi-apocalyptic writings.
The Sybiline oracles, the works they wrote my dissertation on, this is a big theme,
the destruction of the earth by fire.
So, you see, there's, yeah, I was just saying, so, so clearly it's, it would be very convoluted
to get to the New Testament when all of its surrounding Jewish literature is purporting
something very similar in the same milieu, in the same kind of idea.
And then get to the New Testament and say, this doesn't mean what all these other things
are implying.
It would be very, very odd.
Yeah.
Wow.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, you can wrap things up.
No.
It's always, you know, you've read so much and I, you've written up more than I probably
will ever be able to even cover.
I mean, I'm looking at your Hebrew Bible third edition.
This is such a nice, wonderful, deep dive into this material and then your apocalyptic
literature.
So, if I were to try and press you and say, well, prove it, tell me any other literature
where you know it's universal and that you know it's end of history or you know that
it's something more than this small, limited scope because they limit it to Israel.
Can you prove in other apocalyptic literature around the time the New Testament was written?
Well, you know, look at the book of Revelation.
I think it's quite clear.
You know, it goes through a lot of imagery of destruction and then it has a clean break
and then a new creation.
And another one from about the same time is called Fourth Ezra or Second Ezdras.
There to the whole, the earth is returned to primeval silence for seven days.
Why?
So that people will know it's to clearly mark that this is not just a metaphor for for
something that's changing in the world.
So to put it real simple, it failed.
There's no way around that.
Right.
I know that sounds so simple.
You know, I mean, in a way, the way Second Peter puts it is is unfalsifiable because
he says with the Lord, you know, a thousand years is as a day.
So and he didn't say how many days.
Yeah.
So, you know, if you take it, the book of Daniel does give a specific number of days
before the end, whatever he meant by it.
And I think, you know, he didn't really mean the end of the world.
I think he meant the end of the persecution in Jerusalem and certainly a time of great
change.
But you know, down through the centuries, then people have taken the days and Daniel
and said, well, each of those is a thousand years or a hundred years.
But of course, if you really took them as a thousand years, nothing is going to happen
for God knows how long because, you know, if you have if you have one thousand two hundred
and fifty days, now, if you make that into one thousand two hundred and fifty thousand
years, then we're not going to be around.
I'm afraid to see if that's if anything happens at that point.
I think the red flag is that they were expecting it.
And and there are already people mocking it.
There are scoffers because it didn't happen.
So now they're like, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Yeah. OK. Question then question then.
And I wanted to see if I was right in my thinking on this just to.
Have your critical agreement or disagreement and tell me where you think my
thinking is wrong or right in Matthew 24, Luke 21, Mark 13.
The way I understood this is Marks are earliest.
Matthew and Luke know Mark, so they're kind of rehashing these stories.
They're probably thinking potentially there's an apocalypse to come very soon.
It might be tomorrow, might be next Thursday, might be next year, but it's soon.
It's not like way off into the future.
Yeah. Mark is writing this as as though all of these signs you're going to see
that the army surrounded Jerusalem, this destruction of the 70 AD.
This is a sign that God's going to interject into history and change the whole game.
This is not the end, meaning all of these signs
itself are not the evidence to show the end happened.
These are like right before what is going to happen.
Right. OK.
All academics think this.
Why don't I? I must I must look.
I have I gave a paper as a conference in Moscow, actually, in September of 2019.
Good thing it's not this year on.
Yes, indeed, on the barely on Mark 13.
And it was largely directed against the interpretation of Tom Wright.
Tom Wright was an Anglican bishop.
I don't think he's functions as a bishop anymore.
I don't know if one remains a bishop for life, but an enormously
influential kind of popular evangelical writer, not a fundamentalist now,
but say on the evangelical end of the spectrum.
And he was very much inclined to interpret all of this as being fulfilled
in the fall of Jerusalem and so forth.
So I must dig that out and send it to you.
Please do. I would really appreciate it, because that's how I understand it now,
is that it didn't happen.
I think there's even a clue when it says and his name is Tom.
Is it in T right? Yes.
In T right. OK, you call him Tom right.
Yeah, I need to see this because from what I understand in this whole Mark,
Mark, Matthew, Luke, you know, apocalypse,
maybe not the right word, I understood that in Mark,
Jesus says, which is kind of a clue red flag to me,
but not even the Son of Man knows the day or the hour.
Like, like get me off the hook.
OK, like, like, like it's going to happen.
We just don't want to say when, because goodness gracious.
Yes. Huge clue, right? Yeah.
Now, you know, my favorite example of this kind of thing
is in the book of Daniel, where he does actually give you several numbers.
You know, first of all, it's one thousand one hundred and fifty days.
Then it's one thousand two hundred and fifty or something like that.
But then one thousand three hundred.
And then at the end of the book, it gives you the highest number yet.
But then in the very next verse, happier,
those who persevere and come to and it's a higher number again.
Now, this seems to me to be quite transparently a case where,
you know, they predicted a date and it passed.
So they recalculated famous book on this phenomenon
by Leon Festinger written in the 1950s.
And it was mainly about the Millerites,
you know, who the Millerites were in the 1840s.
William Miller out in Ohio, you know,
calculated at the basis of the book of Daniel when the world was going to end.
And a number of people took this very seriously and sold their belongings
and went off and assembled on a mountaintop.
And then when nothing happened, they said they wept and wept until the day dawned.
But, you know, they didn't just disband.
Some of them ended up as the Seventh Day Adventists.
So what Festinger said is the last thing you can expect a person to do
in a situation like that is say, I was wrong.
Actually, Harold Camping, you know, who engaged in this kind of thing
almost 10 years ago was the exception.
You know, this time he actually said, well, I guess it was wrong.
Yeah, but that's after his second time of getting it wrong.
Then he. Yes. Yeah. Yeah.
But but I don't know of anybody before him
in the whole history of military and expectation, whoever said they were wrong,
no matter how often they got it wrong. Wow.
That's that it's like almost like if it walks like a duck and it talks like a duck,
you know, it's so obvious that this would be the pattern that they would all go into.
So I think wouldn't you agree the New Testament, especially like in the Gospel,
John, is trying to get away a little from that apocalyptic expectation?
Yeah, I think so.
I think so. And also, you know, the pastoral epistles.
Don't talk really about the Second Coming.
It's like buckled down, make yourselves respectable in this world.
Now, those epistles often get reviled
because they come across as very reactionary or conservative,
conservative, you know, by the social mores of the time.
But you can see what they were coming from,
you know, that they were reacting against these people who thought the whole thing was going up.
Wow.
And, you know, even in the book of Acts and at first they sell all their belongings
and have everything in common.
You can do that if you think there's a spaceship coming for you in a week.
You know, or in a month.
But you can't keep that up forever.
Well put, yeah, that is so well put.
So the book of Revelation, what's what's it about?
I have to ask because there are some people who think all about Israel.
They honestly think that it is.
So how do I put this to make it short, sweet and simple?
They believe that the book of Revelation is written,
even if they say it was written after 70.
Some of them will say it was written after 70.
Some of them argue to try and be conservative.
This is written before, probably for theological reasons.
But but they believe that all about Israel and the bad people that are kind of
described in this are the kind of Pharisees that Jesus is rebuking in the
Gospels so they don't take Rome as the bad people that are actually going to be destroyed.
Well, no, I mean, it is all about Rome.
Now, I mean, the thing that Protestant Christians have often done is say, yeah,
it's about Rome, the Roman Catholic Church, which of course didn't exist at the time.
But no, yeah, sure, it's a reaction to the Roman Empire.
The Rome, you know, is the beast and the the the whore of Babylon sitting on the beast
with the seven heads and seven hills and so forth.
And that that's all quite clear.
Now, that also shows you whatever else you say about the revelation of of John.
It has a universal scope.
You know, it's addressing the whole world.
And that's because, you know, the Roman Empire extended to the whole world as they knew it at the time.
At the time.
And so what John wanted to say is, no, it's not the Roman Emperor.
It's Jesus.
And it's kind of Jesus as Roman Emperor into to some degree.
So, you know, it's a very political book in that way.
Now, but having said that, you know, it's not just in there are passages in the Hebrew Bible.
It's a passage about Babylon that talks about the stars falling from heaven.
And I think that one is obviously metaphorical.
But I don't I think in the case of revelation, he really expected us
the Roman crumble, the Roman crash.
And when people see that that that metaphorical use in the Old Testament or Hebrew Bible,
you see stuff like Babylon's destruction.
Yeah, the the stars will fall or the mountains will melt or the earth will split asunder like
wild language that might be apocalyptic and metaphorical for a serious event taking place
local, not really universal.
How if you're trying to get that person who's in agreement with you on that
to think universal and say, no, this is different here in the New Testament.
I mean, maybe they need to take like a bunch of college courses to see the development
happening here, like learn why the language itself.
But how would you you know, I think what what it comes down to really is I mean,
with understanding any of this literature, you have to put it in a context.
And it depends what other literature you're reading.
Now part of the problem with some of these praetorists is the only other literature
they're reading is the Old Testament.
And then you can try to assimilate the New Testament to the Old.
But if you're reading the non canonical apocalypses, if you're reading the density scrolls,
if you're reading Greek and Roman literature of the time, if you read the Stoics,
then they there was in the Hellenistic period, a quite new concept of history as a totality.
This is, you know, part of what's entailed by a cosmos.
It's a bounded universe. And they thought of the physical world as a unit that way.
And they thought of time as a unit that way. And therefore, something that could come to an end,
or at least you could go from one eon to another.
Now, you didn't have those sorts of ideas back in the time of the prophets and the Hebrew Bible.
That was such a great point. I've got one more parikipp, well,
maybe two more parikippies to bring up and get your thoughts on.
The next one we're getting into is Josephus. There's this really interesting passage where,
to give you a little background, Jesus talks about there were, for example, Matthew 16.
There are some of you who are standing here will not taste death until the Son of Man comes with
his angels to repay each man according to their deeds. I kind of have this memorized from all the
years that I used to do this. And it's this idea that the angels will come with Jesus and Jesus
talks about the Son of Man will come on the clouds. So you could see like one plus one,
the way people connect the Bible. You have this idea that Jesus is going to come on the clouds
with angels to repay each man according to their deeds. And this is the judgment that will finally
come. They want to say this is 70 AD. And why? Look at Josephus. Josephus says,
and they found this and they go, ooh, and after the festival, not many days later on the 21st
of the month, Artemis, Artemisium, I'm sorry, there appeared a miraculous phenomenon passing
belief. Indeed, what I am about to relate, would I imagine, have been deemed a fable,
were it not for the narratives of eyewitnesses, because they're so trustworthy, and for the
subsequent calamities which deserve to be signaled for before sunset through all the parts
of the country, chariots were seen in the air and armed battalions hurtling through the clouds
and encompassing the city. They say, don't you see this is the final judgment on Jerusalem?
Because Jesus talks about coming on the clouds. Isn't this Jesus coming on the clouds, Dr. Collins?
Well, Josephus certainly didn't think it was Jesus coming on the clouds.
And now, you know, this business of seeing chariots charging in the air, and that stuff is old,
and certainly in the Hellenistic world, you get it in second Maccabees, you know,
in a time of foreboding. I mean, you could imagine some prophet going around in the Ukraine last
week, seeing tanks rolling in the sky, or something, you know, it's a sense of foreboding
that something awful is going to happen. So I think that's what he's getting on there. It's also
kind of melodramatic writing that it, you know, it paints up the picture of something really horrible
happening, really outlandish. So that's part of what is going on. Now, I don't think
Josephus was really into the idea of an end of history. I don't think, I think for Josephus,
you see, this line of interpretation might work just fine, that it's just the end of Jerusalem.
But no, there was a good tradition of that kind of thing, too.
But you see, Josephus will not then go on to talk about, and then the dead will be raised.
You know, he might, as you get into the Gospels, if you, people have visions of the dead coming
out of their tombs and that, that's just extraordinary event. That's all that is saying.
In the, the Apocalypses and something like the Book of Revelation, they don't just come out of their
tombs, they stay out. You know, where in, even in the Gospels, you know, at the time of the
crucifixion, presumably those that came out of their tombs, you know, went back when it got to be
evening and went back to sleep. Wow. Okay. Final, final one, we're tiptoeing around here, the
last one I wanted to bring up is in Colossians. Really interesting passage. He is the image of
the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For in him, all things were created in heaven
and on earth. I wonder what that means. Things visible and invisible, whether thrones or
dominions or rulers or powers, all things through him and for him have been created.
He himself is before all things and all things endure in him. What's going on here?
Well, there are a lot of things going on there. I mean, first of all, I mean the idea that God
created everything. That's, you know, fairly common Jewish idea by this time. And that includes the
angels. Now, this would not have been thought a few hundred years earlier, but this would have
been assumed by this time. Now, Colossians is talking about Christ. And what it's doing is in
the Hebrew Bible, you have the idea of wisdom as a figure and through wisdom God creates the earth.
In Proverbs chapter eight, in Stoicism, you have the idea of the Logos. Now, Stoicism is a bit
different because in real Stoicism, I think there wasn't a God above the Logos. But in some forms
of Greek philosophy, by this time, you still did have a God beyond the Logos. But the Logos,
it's kind of what we call Panentheism. You know, it's the divine element that pervades everything,
holds all things together. And then Jewish writers said, well, that's wisdom. And then the
Gospel of John comes along and this passage in Colossians and say, no, actually, that's Christ.
Now, how you actually imagine that is not at all easy. But that's the move that we're making.
Isn't that also kind of implied in Acts 17 we read earlier, we talked about in him, we move, we breathe,
we have our being. Okay, just saying. In Acts, it's probably God simply.
But here it's more specifically Jesus. Because in the Gospel of John, you know, the word in
chapter one, and in passages like this, you have, it's really like the Logos in Greek philosophy.
Or even like wisdom. There's a book called The Wisdom of Solomon. It's in the Catholic Bible,
which has a lot of this stuff. So that, you know, Jesus is kind of an intermediary figure
between God and the world. And so everything is done through him.
Bravo. This has been a fantastic episode. Let me ask you this, Dr. Collins, before I end up
finishing this with you, if you were able to tell someone who's a student of the Bible,
who's trying to really, they say, as everyone says, I want the truth. I want to know the truth.
But they have been very Bible, interprets a Bible mindset. What advice could you give to someone
who would be willing to do whatever to try and figure out the answers? What kind of advice would
you give to them? You know, ideally, they should go to a school that isn't just repeating dogma.
And learn the languages. Now, you know, it depends how much time they have to devote to this.
You know, if it's somebody who's working a long day shift, well, in that case, you know,
you just got to look for advice on what to read. But, you know, just yesterday, I was in another
Zoom discussion. And this was on the book of Daniel. It's called Daniel and Islam.
But one of the people on the panel was what she called a progressive dispensationalist,
which I would consider a contradiction in terms. But she was a very nice person.
But, you know, she had a PhD from the University of Chicago. She was an academic all her life
at Biola University. But still, when it came to interpreting the Bible, she had, you know,
the kind of thing you might get in the Schofield reference Bible. And she just spouted all of that.
Now, without apparently being at all aware that, you know, in a lot of places, nobody believes that.
The people who actually know the languages and know about the ancient cultures don't read it that way.
So that's what happens to people, I think, is that they get locked in. And you see, if all they know
is what they're being told by their preacher, it's really hard to get to them.
What if all they know is from this, they're trying to themselves, right? They're trying to connect dots.
And the Bible interprets the Bible. So they find these, like I talked about earlier,
you will judge the 12 tribes. Well, we know angel can mean a messenger, a human messenger.
Therefore, they are judging the angels, etc. You see, and they're not learning that from their
pastor. They're going off into this, I like to call it fundamentalist methodology of thinking.
Yeah, it's like the Bible interprets the Bible, but they haven't really went and said, hmm, how does
this was one of the great disasters of the Protestant Reformation, Derek,
the idea that anybody can just read the Bible and interpret it for themselves.
Now, there are, I think, bits of the Bible where that's true enough.
I think anybody can read the Gospels pretty much. But now, you know, if you start reading the book
of Ezekiel, or you start reading the book of Revelation, you need a little help.
You know, and well, you know, it's the same mentality that we have,
you know, with the conspiracy theorists and the people, the anti-vaxxers,
you know, don't trust the people who say they know something about it.
Just trust whoever your local demagogue is.
Wow. Because I find that same mentality in these groups.
Yeah. They think that way as well. So, yeah. Wow. I didn't tell you any of that. You already knew.
That's wild. You knew this would connect. You interpreted it.
Well, thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen. Be sure to go down in the description,
get his books. And also, I have a GoFundMe. I'm trying to go to Israel in October. I'd like to
go sit in the throne seat that Pontius Pilate actually would cast a verdict of innocent or guilty.
Help us do that. Join the Patreon because this will be on Patreon first.
Thank you to everyone who helps me on my Patreon. I really mean that. I really appreciate you,
Dr. Collins. You are the man.
