Does Mark's Gospel portray Jesus as miracles in some way disprove he's the Messiah?
It's a really strange book and Dr. James Tabor is going to tackle this question.
Before he does, be sure to sign up for the Mark Course. I hope that everybody who's watching this
takes the time to go sign up because we're doing a live Q&A on March the 5th that Sunday and we'll
probably do some future ones if things really get exciting and we get tons of questions from
those who view it. You're going to want to sign up. You also get the seven lectures, lots of
bibliography stuff, packets, all sorts of stuff that Dr. James Tabor has put together and he's
done this for this specific course for over 30 years. So Dr. Tabor, tell us a little bit about
the Q&A that you want to do with us and also answering this question, this strange thing about
the miracles in Mark and people asking for a sign. Well, I'm really excited about the Zoom
meeting that we're going to have. I call it the Zoom Room because we can have several hundred
people gathered together but there's an intimacy to it. It's like gathered around the screen
and if you turn your video on, we can see you. You don't have to. We won't make you show your face.
But then we're going to screen questions for a couple of hours and it's going to be a dialogue
and we have really perceptive people that listen to our YouTube channels. We know that from their
questions and quite a few have taken this course and we think quite a few more will
before March 5th and if you do sign up for the course, then you'll get the invitation. It's a
private invitation and as Derek said, if we run out of time, we'll go about two hours. People have
to rest after a while but if we haven't gotten to all the questions, we'll just schedule another
session. So it's going to be interesting. Very seldom is this kind of thing done. It's almost
like I would have you in a classroom. I used to teach classes of 100, sometimes more than that,
150 and you would be with me in class but then there would be a Q&A class. I used to teach Monday,
Wednesday, Friday on Friday. We would open up to everybody what we had covered and that's sort of
what we're doing here in the sense that we're compressing it together. But as to your question,
Derek, that we want to talk about today in this short little overview,
you'd think miracles are to prove Jesus is the Christ, right? And yet in March, they're not.
They're actually to disprove he's the Messiah. Now, I'm being purposely provocative but let
me stand by that statement. The reason is the concept that the Messiah you're going to get
if you go by the miracles is a false Messiah. It's a false concept. So yes, Jesus is the Messiah
and Mark, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ or Jesus the Messiah. That's how it begins.
That's the secret though, you understand? And as you take the course, you begin to realize,
wait a minute, this is not Matthew, this is not Luke. Obviously in Matthew and Luke,
these prohibitions, don't tell what I've done, don't say who I am. And even this rebuking of Peter
and calling him Satan, get behind me Satan, Luke takes all that out. But Mark, if Mark is the
original story, that's why I call it creating Jesus, why Mark was forgotten. So what do you have in
Mark? You got 22 miracles. Here they are. Ready? Four exorcisms, 11 healings, six other kinds of
wonders, that could be like multiplying the loaves and the fishes twice, walking on water,
calming the storm, and one raising of the dead. So that's a pretty good repertoire, 22 miracles in
Mark. But the question, who then is this, predominates when those miracles are done? For example,
when Jesus calms the storm, the disciples who don't get it by the way, anywhere in Mark,
you know what, what they say, they go, who then is this, that even the wind in the sea obeys him?
Now, if you have the view of this powerful Messiah, who is the Messiah because he can
calm a storm like they do, and they're amazed, wow, this is amazing, who's this guy,
then you're not understanding what it means to be the anointed one or the chosen one. And that's
the secret in Mark. Peter does not get it. In fact, he immediately, when he does confess Jesus
as the Christ in Mark chapter eight, Jesus says, okay, you said it, don't tell anybody, but do you
get it? And he doesn't get it because when Jesus tells him what it really means, you know what Peter
says? He rebukes Jesus, imagine. Peter rebukes Jesus in Mark. And in effect, I think said something
like, no, no, no, no, no, you've got it all wrong. I said you were the Messiah. So you say the idea
he was going by the miracles. And this is halfway through the book, climax, who do men say that
I am? Most readers fall for that. Most readers are like Peter, they think, oh, it's finally out.
He's the Messiah, glory hallelujah. And yet when Jesus explains, as he continues to do
throughout the book, what that means, you realize the miracles have nothing to do with
understanding the real mission of Jesus. Part of it's the Hellenistic world, Derek, you've done a
lot on this, you know, the divine man idea in the Hellenistic world. Let's take Apollonius of
Tiana. I know he's later than Jesus. But he does all kinds of miracles, very similar to Jesus.
So is he the guy you should follow? Is he the ultimate teacher? Mark was aware there are also
rabbinic figures of this time, Hone the Circle Drawer and others who could command weather and
stop, cause rain to come like Elijah. And in fact, in, you know, in the Hebrew Bible, Elijah works
all of these miracles, even raises the dead, right? So lots of people in the Greek and the Jewish
world are prepared to think, well, if a guy can do that, then that's who you want to listen to.
And yet Jesus says continually, don't, don't tell that, don't spread that. Yes, I can do it
by the authority of God, but that's not the message. That's not the understanding of what a
Messiah is. So clearly, most of, I think, even people listening here without the Course know
that it has something to do with his suffering, but it's more than that. It actually is.
You know, the last two miracles have to do with healing two blind people and one deaf person.
Now, I'm not saying they're symbolic. They're narrated as if they happened. One is right before
he reveals the secret to the disciples three times and they don't get it. They don't get it.
This is Mark chapter eight, Mark chapter nine, Mark chapter 10. That's the blind man
where he touches them twice. He touches him twice, remember, and at first he doesn't see and then
he sees. And then after that, in chapter 10, he heals another blind man and he does see,
and he also heals a deaf man. So the inner meaning of that for Mark is, okay,
Jesus can heal a blind person who cannot see, a deaf person who cannot hear, but can he heal you?
If you can't see, if you can't hear, if you can't understand the secret of the kingdom,
you see? It makes it so amazing and fascinating. In fact, when his enemies come up and say,
give us a sign. That's the typical understanding in the Hellenistic Greek and Jewish world.
What would make you a really great figure? A messiah, a leader, somebody that people should
look to, a great teacher, a great philosopher? Well, it would be give us a sign, especially
in the Jewish culture. If you're going to be the messiah, you got to be able to do stuff,
work miracles, right? And you know what Jesus says? There will be no sign given
to this generation. Now, wait a minute, wasn't he giving signs the whole time and now he says
there'll be no sign given? It's not that he stopped doing miracles he kept on, but those were not the
signs of the messiah. That's what Mark's telling you. You're not going to get a sign if you want
to understand who the messiah is. No sign. Again, I hate to keep jumping on Matthew and Luke,
but as they rewrite Mark and overwrite it and reinterpret it and take things out and put
things in, you know what Matthew says? There will be no sign given except the sign of Jonah,
of the resurrection of Jesus. Think about it. Mark says no sign. Matthew says, wait a minute.
So I don't think Matthew understands Mark, because he basically just contradicted what
Jesus said. There'll be no sign given, but, and Mark just says there'll be no sign given,
and it says he turned and walked away and just let him, you know, said, you guys are out. You
don't get it. So that's just one of the many mysteries of Mark. It makes it such a fascinating
story, gospel, however you view it. You know, people who are very conservative and evangelical
take this course. Remember, I've taught it for decades, and many times in my classes, especially
at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, it's the, we call it the Bible Belt, right? We're
in the South. Most of my students that sign up for a Bible course, they're Bible believers,
they're Christians, they want to study Mark, and you know what? Once they get into it and begin to
see that what I'm teaching is directly from the text, they love it, and they go and teach the
things from Mark, because they feel that they're finally understanding something that Mark has
that is different from just opening your Bible. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and just reading at
random. Lots of times I've heard preachers say over the years, well, let's talk about Jesus as
parable of the sower. I think I'll use Matthew today. You see, as if they're, you know, it's just
like a cafeteria. You want to use Luke, you want to use Matthew, whatever you want to use, it doesn't
matter. This is abusing the Gospels. Critical means carefully reading each one. Now, we're
going to have courses later on Matthew and Luke. So just because they don't understand Mark doesn't
mean that they can't also be studied academically with great value, because they're representing
other stages and understandings as Christianity began to shape and form itself and emerge.
But I want to go to the earliest. This is the earliest, and you know, Derek, it has been forgotten,
because all these things I'm talking about, I never heard them growing up. I just heard a
mishmash of everything put together, and that's not the way to carefully study the Bible.
Thank you so much, Dr. Tabor. I hope everybody takes the time. Sign up for the Mark course,
and we'll see you at the Q&A on March 5th, and we'll plan on doing future Q&As. See you there.
