Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow, guys.
Become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also, it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups.
Help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live stream.
And you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Ladies and gentlemen, your host, Derek Lambert.
I'm here to take you guys on a ride, as usual, learning new things, just blowing your mind
on information you never knew.
We're going to talk about early Christianity, or if you will, Jewish Christianity.
Maybe even get into some phylo, how this had influence on Christianity.
I mean, when's the last time you stood in church and heard the pastor say, and by the
way, the Platonic thought of phylo of Alexandria had influence on the Jamesian sect as well
as the Pauline.
What?
No, it was all God and specifically the revelation of God is the only thing that presented these
truths to them as if there weren't components in that time that were utilized by these sects.
And so I have Samuel Zenner today and once again joining us.
Thanks for joining me, brother.
Yes, it's my pleasure.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
Guys, go down in the description.
As usual, you can help check out his stuff, academia.edu.
He's written many articles, many books, if you will, a lot of information.
Dr. Robert M. Price and other scholars, contact him and ask him to find things for them because
he's just always on the search and constantly coming up with information.
Our last episode we did, we talked briefly on Josephus and the testimony in Flavinium
as it is having a totally different meaning than what we've been told it means all this
time.
And today I figured we'd go into probably talking about these two guys right here.
Let's see if you could see them.
Maybe we could start out here or do we need to start out with Philo?
Where are we starting, Samuel?
Actually, Peter and Paul, well, yeah, sure, but we have to include James in there.
Okay.
I got to find a James picture sometime.
But yeah, so just start us out.
I'd love to hear some of the information surrounding this.
I know this isn't necessarily a historicity conversation, though you mentioned in the
email on our notes, you know, he is the brother of the Lord and it's only mentioned in this
phrase in this exact context in Galatians 1-9, brother of the Lord is the only New Testament
use of this phrase.
It's nowhere else.
And then the plural is in 1 Corinthians 9-5.
Yeah, so I respect people who have a different interpretation of those passages.
I'm a scholar, so I don't get excited about people disagreeing with my particular interpretation.
That's fine.
That is the case.
The Galatians 1-9, this is the only place in the New Testament that has the phrase in
the singular referring to a specific individual as the brother of the Lord.
And in 1 Corinthians 9-5, that's the sole instance of this phrase used in the plural.
And in both instances, they're sort of grouped together with apostles, including Cephas, which
I think is Peter.
Someone disagree, but I think it is referring to Peter, Petros, the name, would have the
same meaning in Greek as kefa in Aramaic.
The kefas, the s at the end is just a terminal segment in Greek, you know, it's a way to
make Greek an Aramaic word, which is a rock or a crack.
So in any case, in Galatians 1-9, Paul writes about James or Jacob, the brother, it refers
to him as the brother of the Lord, Cindy accusative, so it's Jacob Bon, right, tone the
Delphan to cure you, right, so the Jacob, the brother of the Lord.
And in any case, I take this literally, I don't think that this is, well, it just could
be, it just mean a fellow Christian, because this is such a singular, literally a singular
use of this phrase with a reference to a specific individual.
So if this is just a way to refer to someone who's a fellow believer, why isn't this term
more frequently used in the New Testament, it's only used here, and in 1 Corinthians
9-5, where there is the brothers of the Lord, which I would assume would be the other brothers,
including James, including others, right, in the family, of course, you know, you then
devolve into speculation, it's like, well, who are the others, because for those, we
really don't have any names, right, in Paul, which according to, in my opinion, would be
an early historical source, especially the letter to the relations.
So we, I would say that I know from there we can talk about James, the brother of Jesus,
and there were other brothers, according to 1 Corinthians 9-5, tradition gives us names,
but we can't be totally confident about those, because those are later traditions, in the
Gospels, right, and further into the second century of the Common Era.
In any case, where this story starts, of course, is in Galatians, where we see that there's
a very bitter antagonism, right, outright rivalry between Paul and James, not only
James, but the Jerusalem, right, group of the, what we might call the Jesus sect, or
the Jesus group, right, just a Jewish group within Judaism, similar to see the Pharisees,
the Essenes, the Sadducees, and, well, in any case, we read in Galatians, so what was
the rivalry about? Well, we see that it has to do with crossroads, right, with the Jewish
dietary laws, and it has to do with the question of circumcision, right, so the dietary laws,
that has to do with the debate about the Jewish and Gentile members of the Jesus movement
eating together, right, so that's what Paul is talking about in Galatians too, right,
so the concern was that, well, some of the food might not actually, you know, be kosher,
right, following the crossroot dietary laws, so it's best to have the Jewish and the Gentile
followers of the movement eat separately, right, in Antioch, right, this probably wouldn't
have, would not be the case elsewhere, for instance, in the Jerusalem group, the problem
we're just going to feed together because the authorities would have known, they could
be confident the food at the mills, right, is kosher, so everyone can eat of us, so there's
no problem. Now, the element of circumcision, this is a little trickier because we have to
go to the book of Acts, right, which we cannot take in a historical sense to the degree that
we can be epistle to the Galatians, but in any case, according to Acts 15, the view of
James was that, all right, if pagans or Gentiles, they want to join this Jesus movement,
they can do it, they don't need to be circumcised, that's actually a standard,
that would be the standard rabbinic view, right, Gentiles do not need to be circumcised,
they need to be saved, right, to be all right with God, they don't need that,
they don't even have to be God-fearers, right, you just have to be a moral person,
right, but in any case, right, the God-fearers, right, but Bruce Charlton has appointed this out
in his studies of Acts 15, what James's position was that, all right, you, of course,
they don't have to be circumcised to be part of this movement, but if you want to call yourself a Jew,
right, and if you want to be saying that you are Israel, right, then you need to be circumcised,
right, so this is sort of, this is what Paul, I think, is hitting back at in the Epistle
to the Galatians later on after chapter 2, where it's chapter 5 and 6, where he says that, well,
it's the real circumcision, that's us, right, meaning that's the Gentiles, right,
we're the real circumcision, we are what he calls the, it's a strange phrase that we don't find elsewhere,
because the Israel of God, whatever he meant by that, it seems to me that he would just be
meaning, well, we're the real Israel, we're the true Israel. Anyway, so what James is saying is that,
well, look, if you're going to be calling yourself Israel, you need to be circumcised. In other words,
James wants to preserve the diversity and the distinction between Jew and Gentile.
May I ask a question here, Samuel? I'd like to prod and get your insight, and maybe you've never
heard this before. There are sects of Christianity, Judaism, if you will, like the Black Hebrew,
Israelite movements. There are certain Hebrew, Israelite type movements, right, and other
theological groups that even aren't claiming to be lost tribes of Israel, who want to argue that
Paul's Gentiles are not actually Joe Pagan over here, like the Roman Caesar, so to speak, that
these are actually some type of Hellenized Israelites that aren't Jews. And what they'll say is,
Jews are from Judah, or the southern part of Israel, if you will.
Right, and these guys will argue that the Ten Lost Tribe idea is still alive.
Even if you think it's still a mythos, right, they want to say that this mythos is still alive in
the documents of the New Testament, and that these Gentiles are actually the lost tribes.
Now, Dr. Jason Staples is writing books on this, and I hope to interview him at some point. He's
in the scholarly world student of Dr. Bart Ehrman, been an email correspondence with him on trying to
make a show happen. He wrote an article called A Fresh Look at the Gentiles of Romans 11. I just
wanted to give you a little, I got to give you something before I say what they believe, because
it might go like, and you just throw it off without considering it. I just want you to not
to straw man them or poison the well. And what they say is that the Fresh Look at Gentiles in
Romans 11 is that the fullness of the Gentiles, first they're waiting on the fullness of the Gentiles,
then all Israel will be saved. And so the idea is, what does the fullness of the Gentiles have to do
with all Israel? They believe that this is a reference to the lost tribes where God talks about
regathering Israel, the bride that was lost and had been scattered among the nations. And therefore,
Paul's trying to bring in these Gentiles. I didn't want to spin the whole show on this. I just wanted
to throw this out there and get your thoughts. Because from what I understand in talking to
Dr. Price and other scholars in the field, we have historical evidence, even apart from the
mythos of the New Testament and books like Acts, to prove that God fears we're practicing Judaism,
going to synagogues that were not Israelites. These were your Joe Pagan who was fascinated with
monotheism and the God of Israel. And so from a distance, they could come. They didn't have to
be circumcised. They didn't have to participate in dietary laws or anything like that. And they
could worship the God of Israel from a distance. And so I think, and they go, some of these groups
go to Cornelius and Acts chapter 10 and say, Cornelius was an Israelite. Some of their arguments,
you may not have heard their arguments, this might be poisoning the well a little since you
haven't read some of the material. I'd love to have you read some of their ideas. But they want
to say, well, nobody could receive the Holy Spirit. As far as we know, in the biblical context,
the only people who had the Holy Spirit were Israelites. So why is it that these non-Israelites
are getting the Holy Spirit? And I like to say, because something new is happening here, but
you know, that can be with Paul, Paul's doing something different is what I'm trying to get
at, like the fact that by and Paul, you know, is good at appropriating passages from the various
portions of the Tanakh, right, in order to bolster his program, right? I mean, one immediately thinks
of the book of the 12th, the 12 so-called minor prophets, Joel, right, he foretells the time
when God will pour out his spirit upon all flesh. So just not Israel, but all humanity,
right, all mortals. And later Isaiah also talks about the nations, the goyim, right,
the nations, the Gentiles, right? And these, at least there, are a separate group from
Israel, exiled Jews, also the exiled Northern Israelites. So there is a distinction. Now,
so that's somewhat of a separate question, though, because what did Paul think in his own mind,
right, is a different question, right? And there you can start approaching it by keeping in mind
another one of the minor prophets, Hosea, he has a very famous prophecy, right,
where the Northern tribes are told that, well, you know, no longer children of God, right? But
a time will come when you will be called the sons of the living God. So you'll be brought back.
Now, Paul quotes this verse, right, in Romans 9, I believe, towards the end, but he says that this
refers, this is a prophecy, of the conversion of the Gentiles, right, who are being contrasted
with Israel. So you would think, yeah, he's talking about the goyim, right? So you either
have to think that he's misinterpreting out of ignorance, or he's deliberately misinterpreting
Hosea. This is a prophecy about the 10 Northern tribes being reconciled to God, not about the
Gentiles, right? So there's that issue, what Paul may have thought in his own mind, right? So
yeah, just for anybody wondering, though, that references Romans 9, 30 through 31,
what shall we say then that Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, have attained it,
that is a righteousness that is by faith, which is, you look at Galatians 3, things like that,
but that, but the conjunction there in the Greek is but that Israel. So you have that Gentiles,
oh, but that Israel separating the Gentiles here from the Israelites, but that Israel who pursued
a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. So just like,
figure I'd give the reference there and let people kind of consider Romans 9, 30 through 31.
Neither can we expect Paul to be a systematic theologian. We can't expect, right, that he had
worked out all of his beliefs into a coherent system. So there can be some contradictions
between his thoughts in different passages of his writings. He was not a systematic theologian,
he was creating a new theology, and we cannot impose a system upon that, right? So
I appreciate you taking the time to, yeah. So in Romans 4, for instance, he then quotes from
Genesis about Abraham, the prophet about Abraham becoming a father of many nations. And to me,
it seems that Paul actually, it seems to me that the way he's hinting there is that, all right,
these Gentiles, right, the Gentiles are the many nations that are descended from Abraham,
right? So I mean, you can ask, well, is that correct or not? That's one question. But the real
question really is, well, what does Paul think? What is Paul thinking there? All right, and that's
the task of exegesis. And of course, there's going to be different opinions. But in my view, it really
does, the question presents itself to me is Paul here implying that even the Gentiles are actually
descendants of Abraham. But that does not mean that he would have worked out all of the consequences
of that belief. He could have been inconsistent in working on his theology. That's actually one of
the things these, these guys will say Occam's razor, right? And they'll go, look, perfect example.
The promise is to Abraham. Now, of course, they stand on the Old Testament claiming,
and then the New Testament is kind of really trying to actually fulfill what that said. But
for example, you will become the father of many nations. If you were to look standing just based
off of that text in the Genesis account, one might conclude he literally will father in a
literal biological descendant type, you know, the seed of Abraham, he will be an actual biological
father of many nations. And it's proven in the context to some degree that like
Jacob and Esau, like various, the Edomites and the different, you know,
aides that are out there is the Israelites and all the aides and different nations, right? In
the context there. But the guys who have this theological cool position will say Occam's razor
to them is Paul simply is riffing off the same thing because his Gentiles, he believed in his
mind were actual descendants of Abraham. This is how they will argue in a literal sense. So
I've never seen this theory in mainstream, like critical scholarship, like tackle the
theory. It's never made it into it because I think that they all just accept unanimously. Gentiles
are this thing other than anything descendant of Abraham in a literal sense. These guys are
saying you're missing the mark. All critical scholarship has missed the mark. All everyone
who's looked at these texts, Bart Ehrman, you name it doesn't doesn't matter. They missed the
context. They missed the point. Paul thinks these are real Israelites in some real literal sense.
And so they do different things in my opinion, gymnastics, to find a way to say, well, these
are paganized Israelites. They go to the Maccabees. They try to say during the Maccabee in times,
you know, Israel, northern Israelites, they say still existed among the nations, decided to stop
circumcising. So now by the time you get to the first century, you have these Israelites that
aren't circumcised or not practicing dietary laws and all these type of things. And here you have Paul
simply saying, you know what, let's break down the wall of separation between our brothers and
sisters who are also Israelites, Hosea. They are no longer a people and bring this unity.
Don't worry. The end is about to happen any moment now. Don't worry about getting circumcised.
Don't worry about dietary laws. Just come as you are like a Baptist preacher in the 21st century.
Dress how you want to dress and come as you are. And come on in. And this is how they're viewing it.
Sorry. There is a certain amount of confusion that can creep in here because in Hebrew,
we can speak up in the prophets, especially when we speak of the Bo'yim, right? The Gentiles in that
term. But there's also Amim, which is literally people and in the plural peoples, which also can
be rendered nations. But this can be applied to Israel just as much as to the Gentiles, right?
So there can be confusion there where we have prophecies about they were flowing in from the
nations. This could be referring to the return of Jews from exile. So it's easy to exploit those
types of texts and to probably overlook that many times there in the Hebrew, it's not the
Bo'yim, it's the peoples, which is ambiguous because the people of Israel are a people,
the nation of Israel. Yeah, but they're a singular. This is where it starts getting the technical stuff
that none of the guys that I'm talking about in this particular view know Greek or Hebrew like
that. They have to refer to the scholars. And all the scholars tell me Bo'yim being plural,
ethnic, plural. This in its own definition and right expands beyond the singular, which is Israel.
Look, Israel is a holy Goi. Oh, singular. Got it. It's a holy nation. It's not a holy nations.
Israel is not nations, it is a nation. And therefore, this is kind of getting off track. But anyway,
it's just a fascinating topic. Maybe I can get you more information on it. But it's in the vein
of what we're going to be talking about in a sense, not necessarily between these rivalry groups
and palm coming on saying Gentiles don't need to practice these things. What's the point? If
there's no problem with the look, we've already admitted it. Now they're trying to claim to be
equal or? Yeah, despite what Paul thought on his own mind, I don't think that this idea was really
operative, right on a practical level back then, because his whole, his bigger paradigm is that,
well, the Gentiles are spiritual Jews, they're spiritual Israelites. So if he thinks that the
actual paganized Israelites from long ago, why call them only Israel in a spiritual sense?
It makes no, I agree. I think that the consensus on this opinion is accurate in terms.
As far as other scholarship, academic scholarship on some of these topics,
also, one has to be where in my humble opinion, right? You have to keep the historical context,
for instance, of the new Pauline thought that's become so predominant in recent decades.
Now it's morphed into, quote unquote, Paul within Judaism, right? School of thought. You have to go
back to the Holocaust to set all of this in historical context. You have the Holocaust,
and after that, then it's really the birth of ecumenism, right? And so now what we have two
movements that we have to be particularly sensitive to, respectful of, but we also have to put them
within the historical context in a critical way. What happened? Christians, some Christians then
became very interested in the Jewish origins of Christianity for the purpose, not all,
but some did this for the consciously or unconsciously. It varied depending on the individual. But
after the Holocaust, many Christians, the psychology almost demanded, right? Well, we need
evidence, right? The New Testament is really not anywhere. Is it anti-Juda or anti-Semitic?
So we have to sanitize it. There was a noble reason for that, and that is, all right,
let's say that there are anti-Jewish and anti-Semitic elements in the New Testament.
Well, as Christian theologians, what we have to do and liturgists is we have to
sort of repackage that, change the wording, and give arguments to the people in the pew,
in the pews, right? Well, see, the Gospel of John says, there are sons and the devil,
but see, you have to put it in historical context. He's not really saying that the Jews,
all Jews are of the devil, right? He's only saying that a particular number of Jews who,
you know, were not good Jews to begin with, were sons of the devil, right? So you make
specious arguments, right, that really don't hold water. But you do it for a good reason because
you want to, you want to start to stamp out the idea that there's any justification or basis for
anti-Semitism, anti-Judaism in the New Testament, in the minds and hearts of Christians in the
pews. But the problem that begins to emerge then immediately is that, well, what about
historical accuracy? What if there are anti-Judaism and anti-Semitic elements in the New Testament?
Truth demands, right, that be acknowledged. So it's a difficult tension that's created
because, you know, the Christian in the pews, most of them believe, well, the New Testament
is inspired by God, right? So, but in their mind, fortunately in their mind, they now think, well,
then there can't be anything anti-Jewish and anti-Semitic in there because anti-Semitism is
deplorable, right? So that's good on a pastoral level. But the fact is that there are anti-Jewish
and anti-Semitic aspects to the New Testament, and the historian has to grapple with that, right?
So there's the historian's search for the, for truth, and then there's the pastoral strategies
for trying to decrease and stamp out anti-Jewish, traditional Christian anti-Semitism in the
minds of those in the pews, right? Now, at the same time this was happening, right, there was a
movement also among Jews, right, to say that, to sort of back that, that strategy up because after
the Holocaust, you know, we need to do everything we can do to avoid a repeat of the Holocaust in
the future, right? And so now you begin to read scholars, Jewish scholars pointing out, well,
look how very Jewish the Gospels are, for instance, and Paul, how very Jewish is his approach, right?
And so, but the problem there is a lot of these rabbinic parallels, for instance,
and other parallels that were drawn don't always hold up to closer scrutiny, right?
And so, so for, for noble reasons, right, you had an ecumenical outreach from, from a lot of Jewish
scholars that, that sort of gave a stamp of approval to this whole new way of thinking about
Paul as Paul within Judaism, right? So a lot of Jewish scholars today will tell you, well, no,
John is not anti-Jewish, he's not, the Gospel of John is not anti-Jewish, God.
What is your opinion? I mean,
but there are other just as respectful New Testament scholars, Jewish New Testament scholars
who argue just the exact opposite, you know, it's anti-Jewish.
Let me ask you this, what is your opinion? Do you think he's anti-Jewish to some degree? I mean,
I've got guys who want to come on the show and I do want to, I'm going to interview people,
of course, on this topic as time goes by and I can meet more scholars. Paul within Judaism,
I mean, I wish I could get Paula Fredrickson on, she wrote Paula Pagan's apostle. Yeah,
and I'd like to get their opinions, but do you think that the new school of Paul within Judaism
is a reaction instead of like, yes, yes, it's a reaction. It started with Christians,
as I said, after the Holocaust, wanting to save the reputation of Christianity in a post-holocaust
world. It started with that. So technically, it's not, not saying that there's not honorable
intentions, of course, like you said, but if we're going to be accurate, how do you take Paul?
Because that's really what we're talking about today. You're going to be presenting.
There have been some good insights that came from the new way of thinking about Paul.
I don't think anyone's been doing that, but I think, as with a lot of corrections,
that it's been exaggerated. It's gone too far. And now there's a need to restore some balance.
Personally, in the literature that I've read, it's just the arguments that don't stand up
discreetly. And a lot of the main arguments that have been proposed by Paul Ephraim and other
scholars like this, even a respected scholar John J. Collins has a fun chapter in one of his recent
books, really pointing out point by point where this new approach to Paul is just mostly in error.
So, I mean, we're talking about different scholarly opinions. So, you know, these,
there's never going to be total agreements on this. But if you ask in my opinion, that's it.
Most of the arguments that are proposed do, will not stand up discreetly.
And for instance, when Paul says, you know, no flesh is justified by the law,
and something's like this, in the Greek, no flesh, he's talking about no mortals. But
Paula Fredrickson says that, well, that only means gentiles.
But it's other preposterous. He says no flesh, no mortals. Right. But, you know,
so they're not, it's not that they're not being honest with the text. I don't think they actually
can let the text, as it is, register in their consciousness. Can I be devil's advocate?
The cognitive dissonance, perhaps, and the reasons they're making these arguments are noble.
Right. Right. That's what I wanted to bring up Samuel, if you don't mind. One of the things that
they'll say, and Paula Fredrickson says, I think something like this, please don't take this to
the bank. Maybe I shouldn't even be using her name for this, but you can get the gist. And this goes
in line with those guys I was telling you about that think Paul's gentiles, maybe Israelites,
is that the law was only given to Israel. And so the way that I've heard the idea is that why would
the gentiles need the law? Right. If it's no mortal, well, gentiles weren't given the law. Only
Israelites or Israel was given the law. The Jews had the law. The gentiles didn't need the law,
according to Paul. And so she's trying to say, look, almost like she says,
circumcision. And there's another gentleman that I'm actually friends with, Matthew Thesson,
I think I'm pronouncing that correct. He wrote a couple of books on the topic, but he also did
an interview that was hosted in Yale or something where he says that pretty much a Gentile could
never literally, and there are certain sects of Judaism, that a Gentile could never literally
become Jew anyway. And that they think Paul's mentality is, and they're reading into Paul's
mind, that Paul is a thinking Jew that says, they can't really become an Israeli man.
They're turning them into Akumranites, basically. Which is, I think, prepositions.
But you can see how their thinking would lead that way.
This is where they, this is the depth of insustainability where they have to go.
Right? All out of no, noble motives. Right.
But noble motives is one thing, pastoral strategy is one thing, but trying to get to
historical sense of an ancient text can be quite a different affair.
Yeah, I'm with you 100%. I think when it comes to the law, that's one of the hesitations I have,
is that, well, so we're in a Hellenistic age in the first century, and you're telling me the
restrictions of anyone practicing Torah is only genetic, biological, or you had to be a kin,
in some sense, or it's, you have no...
See, the problem arose from this, look. And John J. Collins points this out in a recent monograph.
Paul, the problem was, right, sure, the James movement, like in Acts 15, you can see there,
James is like, all right, if people want to join the Jesus movement, which is a Jewish movement
for James, right, according to James, it's the way they can, they want to join this movement.
That's fine, they don't need to be circumcised. Right? They just keep the Nochai Law, so the laws
of Noah, right, is the basic handful of laws that are mostly parallel in rabbinic literature.
All right, that's all they have to do. But what Paul was teaching was that no flesh,
that is, Gentile, or neither Jew nor Gentile, would be justified by the Torah. So in other words,
Jews do not need to keep Torah anymore. That's basically what he's saying, to put it bluntly,
right? Now, he makes a lot of apparent qualifications of that, but it's a little bit
of the sake of rhetoric. And it's interesting that most of these confusing statements that he
makes, that he seems to be saying two different things, are mostly constituted in the epistle to
the Romans. But this is rhetorical, right, because he had to placate, right, the Jewish
constituency in the Roman, quote unquote, church, right? And so he can't be as direct as he was in
Galatians, for instance, because he's preparing his way to go to Jerusalem with that famous
collection, right? And so he's, that's why his quote unquote gospel is slightly different in the
epistle, in the letter to the Romans. And so by saying this, am I saying that, you know,
we take the authority, we're abrogating the law by no means, but he actually is abrogating the law.
And I love it.
You know, that's, well, in any case, that was the issue, right, in the early church, right,
between James and Peter, right, on one hand, and Paul on the other. And when the book of Acts has
this exchange between Paul and James, James tells Paul, well, look, a lot of the brethren are saying
that you're teaching apostasy, right? And they're over there in Asia Minor telling them they don't
need to circumcise their children anymore, or keep the law of Moses. Any honest reading of Galatians,
for instance, I think we'll bear that out. It's like, actually, that's what he was doing, right?
Because no flesh, no mortal is going to be justified by the Torah. That's no Jew, no Gentile.
This begs the question, Sam, if you don't mind me asking, because I was listening to a wonderful
lecture by Dr. Christine Hayes, and she did a divine law discussion going into how the rabbis,
how Torah, and then, of course, how Paul thought. And she mentions Stoicism. I know she gets into
Platonic thought, of course, as well. But Stoicism, I believe, was one of the things she mentioned. But
ultimately, there was this idea that Paul does not believe the letter of the law, the writing of
a law, just like the Greeks had this similar idea that it's not what you want as a philosopher,
the way the Greeks looked at it. It's like, have a noble man who helps to teach and lead the people,
not a written letter. The writing of the law isn't sufficient. It's good, it's secondary,
it's not like it's bad in itself, but it doesn't, it's not going to do what he thought. And so he
had a different Stoic, I thought, I believe, and maybe this goes into your Philo connection. I'm not
sure. Paul has a Stoic, I don't want to generalize about the Stoics either, but Paul has a particular
Stoic understanding of law, the Namas, which doesn't square with Jewish tradition,
just simply doesn't. Second Temple Jewish traditions, in this instance, is that it's the
natural law is superior to the laws of nations. This is the Stoic trope, and he appropriates
various Tanakh passages in order to read this Stoic understanding of law into the Tanakh,
it's really not there. And because at the same time, there were different Stoic
understandings of law that are more climactic, if you will, they're more augmented than that,
and they don't necessarily have a negative view of cultural written laws or national laws. Because
if you look at Philo of Alexandria, he's a Jew who has assimilated various Stoic ideas,
and his idea of law is that the natural law, which is what Stoics like to talk about,
the natural law is somehow identical to the Torah of Moses, to the law of Moses,
but not in contradiction. In any case, it also has to do with the particular understanding,
let's say, of Soma versus Noom, of the body versus or Suke, the body versus the soul,
matter versus immateriality, in the Platonic framework that Stoicism is operating from.
Unwritten law is the spirit, and the written law is the body. See, this is a good Stoic
thought, a good Platonic thought, but it's certainly not a traditional Jewish thought.
For instance, when the prophets talk about the Torah, there will be a new covenant,
a new agreement. This is almost talking about the renewal of the Sinai Torah, of the Mosaic Torah,
not an abrogation of it and a replacement of it was something else, some Messianic Torah. No,
it's renewal of the covenant that's already in place. In any case, for those two
subscribed to the new Pauline schools of thought, and the Paul within Judaism,
you have to ask yourself one fundamental question. One of the basic arguments is this,
is that, well, Paul, sure, he says a lot of negative things about the law,
but that's because he's writing to Gentiles. That makes no sense. What kind of argument is that?
All right, how you shoot that down is very easy. Half of Philo's works were written to whom?
To Pagans. They're written after his mission to Rome, and so we have hundreds and thousands of
pages from him. They're written to Gentiles, and there is not one sentence anywhere in those that
can be misinterpreted as saying anything negative about the Torah. It's all clearly positive.
Everything said about Moses, everything you said about the law is positive.
There's no possibility that he could be misinterpreted. So you've got to ask yourself,
and he's writing to Gentiles. Now, his allegorical commentaries on the Torah,
those were written for Jewish students of his, but his big, famous treatises about the life of
Moses and the migration of Abraham, all of these, every good man is free. Those were all written
for Greco-Pagan audience. If I may. He talks specifically about the Torah and about Moses,
about Judaism, and it's all positive, nothing negative. So why does Paul have to be negative at
all when talking about the Torah, just because he's writing to Gentiles? No, it's because he's
writing to Gentiles that he should go out of his way to avoid any misinterpretation and to always
be positive. That he is not is, you know, let's the cat out of the bag in my opinion.
That's really a huge red flag, because one of the things I had questions for Dr. Fredrickson,
she had a symposium that I wasn't able to, I was going to write up a long thing with questions and
like compliments and things that I thought were interesting about the book. There was no adding
to the symposium. I've tried to email her. She's super busy to have her come on for the show,
and I'm interested in having her come on in the future. But she said in her book exactly what
she practically did. And she kind of argued that Paul's motives for speaking negative about the law
was to Gentiles, because he didn't want his Gentiles to fall astray and become
Jews. He wanted his Gentiles to remain the nations and not to become Israel in the literal sense.
And this was her argument, is that he's talking down about the law, not because he believes the
law is like, you know, he knows that it's no good for them, which starts with other presuppositions
she believes she builds off of to make the case and then says at the end, you know, Paul doesn't
really think this about the law. Paul actually thinks the law is great. But for the for these Gentiles,
he doesn't want them getting let astray and Paul's opponents were trying to convert Paul's people by
saying, you need to get circumcised, you need to obey Torah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And so he's only
speaking down about it, like, like in a way psychologically to trick them to not follow the
Torah and to keep in his sect. That was like a whole argument that Dr. Price was saying.
How do you know this? If some of these Gentiles want to become full converts, why not?
Right. Why not? Paul would be opposed to it. Why not? Well, this is simply one of the reasons
all the courtesies is why there was such bigger conflict between Paul and James and the Jerusalem
authorities. And if it was over something, it doesn't make sense that it was especially if he's
within Judaism for decades, because this one, this, this rivalry went on for decades. You would
think that, well, can it can this be clarified in some way and explained? You know, after decades,
you're still going to have everyone still misunderstanding what Paul's really saying.
No, the rivalry between James and Paul endured to the end.
It was a real conflict. It was a real bitter disagreement.
I agree. Paul calls these opponents and he's not all scholars will admit this. Some of them,
again, it's maybe cognitive dissonance or theological bias, but many scholars will not.
They don't want to admit themselves. When Paul is talking about all those super apostles,
they're ministers of Satan. He's talking about James, Peter, all of these people
are in Jerusalem. Those who actually, at least in my viewpoint, would have known Jesus.
So, you know, this was a bitter rivalry and, you know, which was developed into
name calling, at least on Paul's side. To go back to Galatians, when we see this,
when Paul is writing about the conflict that he has with James, this is, look, I went to Jerusalem.
And I concluded a deal with these. They shook my hand. It's like, all right, we all minister to
Jews and you all minister to the Gentiles and with your gospel, which you preach,
and they say they agreed with me. They give me their hands. Which I have to understand,
Philip Esler has written on this. He explains that they were following the Mediterranean
honor code. When an inferior approaches a superior, the superior can basically what
some people might think is mine. They can basically say something that is really not what they mean
in order just to brush this person off or to deal with it at a later time. So what's happening there
is Paul is being considered an inferior to James and the three in Jerusalem. And so the agreement
that they gave was not an endorsement of Paul and his preaching, the way he presents it in Galatians.
This was one of those instances of how the Mediterranean honor code works. So, all right,
let's shake hands and you move on, go on your way. And now, after he's gone,
now we're going to deal with this problem, Paul and his message. And then for the rest of Paul's
ministry, you see them dealing with it. They're going to his churches and trying to
clean up the damage from their viewpoint, right? It's the city of the gospel of John. The gospel
of John, the brothers of Jesus, asked Jesus if he's going to the festival in Jerusalem. And he
says no. And then the next verse says that Jesus went to the festival. He was brushing them off,
he was basically telling them what looks like a lie because they're being portrayed as his
inferiors and they don't have a right to impose upon him, right? So, of course, Paul interprets this
as, wow, I had an agreement with them. So he's thinking of himself as their equal. He doesn't
realize that in their viewpoint, he was an inferior. They were just basically brushing him off. And
right? And so he calls it, I was betrayed, the act of treason. But if you keep in mind the
Mediterranean honor code, you understand what's going on there. They never did endorse his mission
and his way of teaching. Wow. So that was what I was going to ask you. And I guess you really
answered it. I guess to comment on that is ultimately Paul felt betrayed and played whether
he's being honest or not in Galatians. I think he's being honest in some sense, if you take
your suggesting. But if he's, let's just say they didn't, let's just say they brushed them off,
but they didn't really give him an endorsement. And he went out saying they did. That's another
possibility. Because he had a high opinion of himself and didn't realize he did not think of
himself as their inferior. He thought of himself probably not even as their equal. He probably
thought he was their superior. That's his basic attitude. Yeah, because he pretty much does give
that hold. In a vision, I'm his special apostle. And it's like this explains, you know, what you
see in the four gospels, for instance, four gospels to a large extent, right? To a certain extent,
they're taking Paul's letters, teachings from Paul's letters, even sometimes even sayings,
and then they put them into Jesus' mouth in the four gospels. So the gospels are presenting a Jesus
who is basically teaching Paul the endocrine. What about Matthew, though? What about Matthew?
Matthew seems quite contrarian.
Matthew, how did I ask the, quote unquote, Jewish Christian gospel, but hold on a minute,
right? With Mark, for instance, right? The rich young man asked Jesus, what's the greatest
missful? What's the greatest commandment in the Torah? He calls the Shema Yisra'el, right?
Here, Shema Yisra'el, Adonai Yahingo, Adonai Ha, right? Here, Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord
Yiswan, and then you will love the Lord your God with all your heart, et cetera. That's the first
one they just learned. Right? Well, if you go to Matthew in that St. Pericope, right? Someone
comes up to Jesus and asks, what's the greatest commandment? Matthew leaves out Deuteronomy 6-4,
here it is for the Lord, the Lord your God, the Lord Yiswan. He cuts it out and he starts with,
oh, you'll love the Lord your God with all your heart. So he takes the small out, he takes the
whole monotheism out, right? This is the so-called Jewish Christian gospel, right? So he takes Israel
out of it, right? Here, Israel, the monotheism, he takes it out, right? And also, it's very bitter,
right? For instance, Matthew 23 is this long screed against, you know, the Pharisees and their
hypocrisy, and it's like, oh, what happened about loving your enemies? In any case, there are a
lot of scholars, like even Esmeralda, I mentioned earlier, I have a lot of respect for his work,
but on that particular Matthew 23, he says, well, this is an inner Jewish criticism.
But again, I say, all you have to do is look at Philo. Philo in many places condemns
eloquently, he condemns hypocritical Jews. But there's never anywhere, when he does this,
where it could ever be misinterpreted as an attack, right, on Jews or Jewish traditions,
right? It has a totally different feel. There's no mistaking.
No one would be able to misinterpret Philo's denunciations or some Jews' hypocrisy.
It's clearly a Jew criticizing other Jews. But you can misinterpret Matthew 23's
long screed against the Pharisees as anti-Jewish. Again, well, that brings up a point, though,
when you look and consider dating of Matthew, which is important, I think, in light of some
scholars that are not even, like, as radical as some of the guys I bring on my show, where they
point out replacement theology. And the crazy thing is, it's not that it shows up once or twice.
It's like, they say, when you see the mountains, it's the program of his gospel. It leads up to
bit by bit. Yes. And there's so much evidence building up this case of replacing the nation
of Israel for a new nation of people that is consistent of anyone. This is opening up the door.
But I wanted to bring up an interesting point you brought up that Jews, and this is the Jewish
gospel. Jews is often a cipher sometimes for Jewish Christian. That doesn't mean in this particular
place here, the context is kind of almost difficult to find in some spots. But people,
sometimes in the Paul and Judaism school, might just think Judaism like a normal Jew. And this
sect is radically different than your typical Judaism, or at least what was commonly understood
as Pharisee and Sadducee and such that was going on during these days. But
can you give us some information on that? The Jews often cipher for Jewish Christian?
Right. So if you see that in the four Gospels, Jesus is basically preaching Pauline doctrine,
and often in the very words of Paul, often in the very words of Paul,
from his epistles, put into the mouth of Jesus, then yes, his Jewish opponents would be Paul's
opponents, which are not only Jews who do not belong to the Jesus, but also Jews who do belong
to the Jesus movement. And this also is why I think in the Gospels where Jesus is always
criticizing his disciples, his followers as being ignorant, they can't understand anything,
they're rebellious to betray him. This is sort of, I think, high Maccabee pointed this out long ago
in one of his books, this is sort of a cipher. Oh, those apostles that are being belittled in
the Gospels, who are those? Those are the apostles who are in charge of the Jesus movement in Jerusalem.
At the time of Paul. But that's not all. There's this Pauline, elements of the Pauline
corpus are used to construct words and sayings of Jesus. But there's also more. Some elements from
Josephus are put in there, but also from Philo. And that's what's very interesting.
I know Rabbi Herbert Basser in Brille published his commentary on the Gospel of Matthew,
right, which is a follower. Who is it? Herbert Basser, B-A-S-S-E-R. And he writes in there,
for instance, in the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus says, but if you remember,
a fringe, you cut it off, right? And Basser points out in there, especially castration,
he says there's nothing in Jewish literature that is a parallel to that. But he's incorrect.
There's nothing in rabbinic literature. The only parallel you find to that in Jewish literature
is in Philo. Where did he get it from? It's Stoics. Stoics loved extremism,
to make their point, to get their point across, to be extreme. And you can show that even when
Jesus says, you know, not a jot or a tittle, I think the King James says, you know, not one,
a part of the law will pass, right, till heaven and earth pass away. This actually, if you look at
the Greek, you can see the basic vocabulary, right, matches that both Philo and Josephus,
when they talked about the eternity of the Torah, right? So to, I think to a large extent,
like the Sermon on the Mount, right, these are, this is Stoic principles of ethics,
of loving your enemy, right? This is right out of Stoicism. But this is largely built on the
Stoic ethics of Philo. And which is quite a thought, you know, because this is,
Sermon on the Mount is supposed to be the greatest piece of teaching, right, of Jesus teaching,
and yet it's really informed by Philo's teaching. Of course, Philo was born before Jesus, at least
according to, you know, historical models, accepting in the history of Jesus. So one could
argue that, well, the historical Jesus actually assimilated some of Philo's teachings, right?
But be that as it may, the so-called highest ethics that you get in Christianity are by
all accounts by Christian theologians, this is the Sermon on the Mount. But those highest elements
there that are sometimes harder to trace in pre-Christian Judaism are Stoic.
And but of course, to a large extent, you can parallel just about everything in the Sermon
on the Mount in rabbinic literature, because the rabbinic literature also has integrated
some Stoic traditions, right? And why not? There's no problem with that.
Let me ask you this, because we're digging into Philo. I got to switch my picture so everybody
can get this, feel the vibes of Philo with me, okay? Give me some connections. Before we get into
one of the last comments you make about reconstructing the beliefs of Jesus and James,
what are some more connections between Philo and Paul, or really it's complicated to try and say
exactly who used what in reality, because the Gospels come later. We don't know what a historical
Jesus on the ground may or may not have literally taught without trying to reconstruct something
to try and consider maybe this is a possibility here. Right. And that's why I mean, but I like
to speculate. And but what can we know with the New Testament texts that we know from Philo that
makes no sense except for a Philo connection? Oh, this is really probably too detailed to talk about
the medium like this, but I have written up a monograph where I argue, and half of it's in
Greek, because I am making an argument that Paul does have access, direct access to some of Philo's
writings. Some of them may be in like an anthology or a condensed abbreviated form, but there's enough
there in the Greek of Philo and in Paul's Greek to be able to make a connection. But I do believe,
and I make a case for this in this book that I've written, it's not published yet. I start
a lot of some good endorsements, so I hope that will help get published. But my basic argument is
that Paul is dependent on some of Philo's writings and doctrines, because he is arguing
against all of that. This is not his way of seeing things, but that way of seeing things,
the way of his opponents is what James and the Jerusalem authorities, that's the way they saw
things. Basically, what's that? In a nutshell, you could say that Philo, I believe it's in the
migration of Abraham, that treatise where Philo criticizes some of his fellow Jews, who get lost,
who go to extremes in the allegorical interpretation of the Tanakh, to the point that say, well,
a circumcision is symbolic, so we don't need to do it anymore. What you need to do is, yes,
recognize that it is a symbolism involved, but still you have to have the body and the soul
to be alive. You need the body and the soul, you need the physical circumcision and an
appreciation of the spiritual symbolism of the physical act. So what he calls extreme
allegorists, this is what Paul was. He's arguing in Romans 2, right, the real circumcision is
circumcision of the spirit. So this is how you can put them into context, but Paul there
is arguing against Philo's teachings, which were spreading in the 40s after his mission to Rome.
Philo's teachings were spreading in Rome and beyond, because it's very likely that even he
taught in synagogues during the mission, that he had in the early 40s from Alexandria, Egypt,
to Rome. So his teachings were spreading in the local synagogues, and so some of these people
that were in Paul's churches would have been exposed to some of Philo's teachings
in the synagogue. In any case, so the James would have
utilized Philo's teachings in his own mission. So you can put James and Philo together,
doctrinally. They would have seen things the same way, and I think James was actually
using some of Philo's teachings. And Paul, and this is one of the reasons Paul is not
polemicizing against some of these ideas that we see in Philo, because they were being promoted
by James and the Jerusalem authorities. They had enough in common to somehow be similar.
Everything except the notion of the Messiah and the identification of the Messiah.
But you see, even though we're not really sure about things, because
James was a Jew, just as Jesus would have been a Jew, was not a Christian. We don't know. We would
presume that James actually didn't believe that Jesus was the Messiah, rather that he believed
that Jesus will be the Messiah when he, in his prophecy, when he returns and fulfills
the Tanakh prophecies of what the Messiah is supposed to do, bring peace to the nations,
et cetera, et cetera. So this is probably what the Jerusalem authorities believe,
where Jesus is going to be the Messiah. So he's in an anticipatory or proleptic sense,
is one of the fancy words that's used. You can call him the Messiah by virtue of that,
but he's really not Messiah until he comes back and proves that this is what he is.
By fulfilling all of the Tanakh prophecies. And so the other instance there would be,
the evidence really doesn't indicate that James and those earliest followers of Jesus
would have believed in resurrection. They apparently believed that Jesus was raised alive
from the cross, perhaps raised alive and ascended alive, like Enoch or Elisha. He was saved at the
last moment and ascended alive. And then so, and certainly there were some, I think some
Jewish followers of Jesus who interpreted his death in the same way we see the death of the
Maccabees and martyrs were interpreted in a book like Fourth Maccabees. That is the martyr's death
will purify the nation of Israel. But that's just a temporary purification that has no
implication, right, or no result. It doesn't result in the sacrificial system of the temple
being abrogated, right? So that goes on. So they would have interpreted Jesus' death the same way,
so it's Maccabees and martyrs' death, not in the sense of well now he's the final sacrifice,
we don't need any more of the sacrificial system that is to be ended. Now that, no.
So they didn't have the idea of what Paul's idea of. There's a combination of the
Jesus, for instance. The logos being combined into this, I think, is where you would start to see
a development of Christology that allows for a finality sacrifice. I mean, that would be obviously
platonic and stoic, I would suspect, in nature as well, bringing in the logos, right?
I'm not entirely sure what you're referring to, but it does bring to mind, admittedly, that
philos, teachings were, of course, appropriated by Christians in ways that would have made him
or make him turn over into grief to use a phrase like that.
Right. I guess we were comparing it to the Maccabean situation. What I'm saying is,
if Jesus is a sacrifice, so to speak, like Forth Maccabees describes the Maccabean people,
they kind of mythologized it. Rather than renounce the law of Moses. Right.
So you see the stark difference between that and Paul's theology, and that's all I can say about
that. And later in the epistle of the Hebrews, as you were probably hinting at there, there's a
platonic paradigm that is, I think, utilizing some of philos' teachings, but they're appropriated
in him and turning and modifying them in ways that philo would have been aghast.
He was a faithful Jew, and that his writings could be used in the way that they were used
by the church fathers is, it's just, well, I don't know. So we need to read, what's the name
of the monograph you wrote that goes into greater detail on philo so that my audience can go check
it out on academia. It's not published yet. It's not published yet. And what is it? It's something
like philo and Paul, a reassessment, really short to the point title.
Well, in any case, you know, that, right, right. I think it, you know, and there's a whole literature
scholar, the literature on Jewish Christianity, right. And of course, there's a lot of debate and
a lot of disagreement about how to reconstruct the beliefs of Jewish Christians. And of course,
there were many different groups, right. So you can't, they weren't monolithic.
That's the most complicated part, Samuel. In general, if you want to know what James and Jesus
believed, right, of course, with all necessary qualifications, right, you just make a list
of the beliefs and the practices of Paul's opponents, go through his letters and write
of these things down and you'll start to see a pattern. And so
you have to wonder, all right, if James is in control of that movement, he's at the head of the
movement in Jerusalem. And Cephas is there, and presumably others who had been disciples of Jesus
have known Jesus. How could you go for decade after decade with those disciples of Jesus
living with James if what James was standing for and teaching was totally opposed to what Jesus
had taught. So I think that we're an accurate, the best we can do at reconstructing the historical
Jesus, yes, that's what I believe in, the historical Jesus would have taught would be to look at James.
So he would have been Torah faithful, right. He would probably have had a reputation, right,
for being, yes, a stickler for the Torah, right, and presumably died for it
in a certain sense, but which is, which is one of the grand historical ironies.
Well, in any case, right, Paul, at least one of the Deuterol Paul, Paul and the Deuterol Paul mean
writings, you can read points like, well, to those who are pure, all things are pure. So go ahead and
eat what you want to eat, right. And so this is, this is what Jesus teaches in the Gospels. This is
just Paul's doctrine being put into Jesus' mouth. The real Jesus, right, if we, we can go by everything
that we can reconstruct historically by Judaism at that time, and especially for say, like rabbis,
they wouldn't spend their time talking about points of halakha, right, and crossroads and things like
this, would have been about the law of Moses. But of course, they were living in turbulent times,
right. And so there were, there was a problem with false Christian claimants who were Messiahs
for many rebellions against the empire. And so the whole, the whole story of Jesus, right,
is implicated in that history of tension, right, between Jerusalem's autonomy
and the Roman authorities, right. And so of course, Jesus is arrested and crucified for sedition.
And what kind of Jesus is this? Is this a rebel?
Yes, yes. You know, I mean, and you know, you, I mean, others have written eloquently on this
and in a lot of detail. I mean, there are enough sayings that, you know, what do you mean? I didn't
come for, to bring peace to the world. I came to bring a sword, right. And it says, well, if you have
consulates, let's sell it and then get a, get a sword. Well, we got two swords here. Well, that's
enough, yeah. So there, there's more than just the peace thing there, right, in the, in the, in the
gospel Jesus. But I mean, this is, I don't know why it upsets, you know, some, some people, because
this is a thoroughly Jewish messianic model. It takes away the magic. It takes away their magic.
That's all it is. And in the second temple, Jewish literature, the Messiah is a military figure,
right. And he, he's, you know, that's what it is, that's what it is.
Solomon, Solomon number 17, for instance, it's, it's a military Messiah.
He's a king after all, right, according to traditional interpretations of
celebrities, not prophecies, like I said, he's a royal figure who's also, you know,
therefore by definition, a military leader, right. So there's, there's nothing disrespectful,
there's nothing blasphemous in pointing something like that and, and seeing Jesus as some kind of
seditious figure. For instance, if you look at Josephus, that's the implication. Whatever one
might believe about the, the, the testimonial Flaviano, whatever he actually said there about
Jesus is sandwiched between all of these discourses, right. His behavior among Jews at that time.
And then right in the middle of it, there's, he talks about Jesus.
So, so let me ask you a final question. And this is like,
this is a big question, but it's a good question, I think, to end this show with and,
and cliffhang on. Maybe we have to do a show touching on this at some point in the future.
But why would Paul, who has this radically different take, you know, absolutely spiritualizing
Torah, really almost abrogating it completely, giving a new law. Why is he concerned about
this Jesus guy? I mean, Jesus already has followers who take him in a totally different way.
What, what would, I guess this is really reading into something we don't really have enough evidence
of, but maybe you can give me your opinion. Like what would make him look and go, this guy recently
died. His followers believe he really rose from the dead. He himself had a real possible experience
and was he already part of the earlier movement and broke off and decided to, hey, we're wrong.
And I need to, I need to, to convince, I need to change this. There's a, there's a different,
there's the truth is not what they've been following and made his own thing. Or what would
make him be attracted to this messianic rebel who's a seditious follower, you know, who's opposing
Rome? What would attract him to this guy? The idea of him rising from the dead, he was convinced by
their followers. Anyone who tries to answer it is just, you know, involved in speculation. Right.
People, humans like to speculate. But yeah, it's, it's an entire topic to itself. But I would
say briefly, one thing keep in mind when you start off on that topic is, is to recognize
the accounts in acts of Paul's conversion, which is on the road to Damascus and all of this,
have been incorrectly or inaccurately read into the physical relations account of Paul's revelation
that you will see from Jesus. Okay. In other words, what I'm saying is if you put two and two
together there, and in fact, there's a chapter on this in, I believe it's a fest shrift, I forget
the title of it, but I believe it's a fest shift dedicated to Dennis McDonald, actually.
There is a chapter in there by a scholar, I forget his name. He does point out this methodological
error. But the gist of it is this. Paul apparently would have been within the Jesus movement
and following the James version for some time. And after a period of time of already following
Jesus, he then had his revelation about his particular gospel. And that's when he broke
with the movement. Right. So the key to this is you have to, you have to, you have to keep
the mind that acts, you cannot be read as historically as the relations can.
Right. You can't react into relations. Once you get rid of that, then you can reconstruct
that as possible. Paul was a part of the Jesus movement for quite some time
of the persuasion of James. And at some point, there came a break.
Which would make, if you don't mind me mentioning, it would make a lot of sense because
I mean, if you do take Galatians at face value and you consider like thinking just basic common
sense questions, why aren't they giving this guy a time or day? Why does he even have a gospel
that these guys would even consider hearing what he has to say? It's like, dude, we were part of
this originally. You are nobody a part of this original movement. Like he's having a lot of success.
Right. So he is someone that has to be dealt with. Right. Has to be understood. Right.
He just can't be totally ignored. And that's the thing. Another thing is speculative on my part,
but I think it also makes sense is that they're talking to him, even if they're not dealing
with him yet. If Paul's correct in saying they met with him, it's probably because they knew of him.
And it wasn't just some random guy out of nowhere had a strange revelation of a character that he's
never even known about. Even if he never met him in person, he didn't know about him. No,
it would make sense that he comes from this movement, that he was even given a chance
in light of the conversation that, oh, they broke the contract and all that. Well,
maybe they didn't really have a contract or maybe they lied and said, I don't know.
Perhaps. I would say the stronger reason would be when he was having a lot of success.
And so just on a pastoral level, they're going to have to keep track of this man and what he's
doing. Right. So in any case, it's probably the subject for movies and historical novels and all
this more than because of it. It's next impossible to really have much confidence about questions
like this. And ultimately, I mean, inner experiences that people have of religious
nature or whatever. I mean, just beyond historical recovery. I'm with you 100%. Samuel Zinner,
thank you so much for joining me on the show, my friend. I really appreciate that.
You're welcome. It's my pleasure. And ladies and gentlemen, I want you guys to go down in the
description. Check out what we have down there. You guys can help support the show, help us grow,
become a patron. You get early access to everything. Who knows what kind of tricks or treats I might
have for you guys in the future. Right now, it's early access to everything I edit. And when it's
edited and it's up, everything from the Mormon series, you name it. I've got a list of different
series that I'm putting out and constantly doing videos you guys get early access to.
Also, check out Samuel Zinner's links. He's got a lot. He's written a lot. You guys can tell.
He's read a lot, written a lot, and he's familiar with this material inside out.
He's acquainted with all the arguments from various schools of thought. I really want to
know your guys' thoughts on the discussion today. What do you think about Paul within Judaism?
What do you think about what he brought up today? I mean, we weren't even making this show about
that really. It wasn't even a poke at Paul within Judaism's show, which could be a show within
itself taking apart the arguments really one by one. But I want your guys' thoughts. Hit that like
button. Hit the subscribe button. Hit the bell so you're notified every time I drop something
out there. You guys can get first access to it. And I want you guys to email me with your questions
and ideas and thoughts. You can get early access to those videos, like I said on Patreon, but you
can also private message me for private conversation and maybe some thoughts that you have by becoming
a patron. And so with that being said, if you've already forgotten, and usually I hear that people
don't forget, but I keep saying this just in case you do. We are MythVision.
