Welcome back to MythVision podcast. We are MythVision. I have Dr. Ruben Firestone joining
me again today. How are you?
Great. Good.
Thank you. I really appreciate you joining.
Yeah. Good. It's good to be here. How are you? How are things going on your end?
We just got snow and I don't have four-wheel drive. And so getting the car into the driveway,
which is a steep hill, that's another topic. Anywho, I really do appreciate you joining
us today. Your book is a must read that I highly recommend anybody who's interested in the
subject diving into jihad, the origin of holy war in Islam. I haven't been able to put this
book down. I recommend anybody who's interested in understanding that because this is the topic
today. We're going to ask questions like, what is jihad? What does it even mean? Right? Does
it always mean war? Of course, your book goes into this, but specifically also engaging in
the topic of holy war in the origins of the religion we call Islam. And of course, religious
categories are sometimes bad categories. We just use them to try and understand where people are
coming from. And it reminds me, your book started making me think of In God's Path by Robert G.
Hoyland and why he titled it that. And I feel like, hold on, maybe I solved the mystery because
I'm some guy who doesn't even know Arabic. Like, In God's Path is a phrase that makes sense in
war, in the conquest of what we see in early Islam, which categorizes into your book here
that we're discussing today. I want to say up front, I want to educate people. I want to give
them the good, the bad, the ugly. I want to have people understand the reality of the literature
and understand that it's not a one stop shop. So if you're coming at this with a one dimensional,
I found something ugly there for everything has to fit this view. You're not approaching this
academically and you're not being fair to the sources, both in exegetes and commentaries over
time, but also with the literature of the Quran itself. So we're going to be very carefully
analyzing this. And Dr. Firestone, how would you want to begin this book? I mean, I could go ahead
and start with my questions and we can just dive in or you can go ahead and give us some type of
preparation before we do. Yeah, I think what I would like to say is that we make a lot of assumptions
about things and we don't understand the context and we don't understand kind of deeply about it.
We are easily fooled into thinking something that is simple when it's actually much more complicated.
Let me just give you an example of that. Robert Hoyland's book in the path of God,
the phrase in the path of God really has nothing to do with war. Now I am speaking as a non-Muslim,
okay? I just want everyone to understand I am a rabbi, I'm a Jew, I am a practicing Jew,
I'm not a Muslim, I have nothing invested in Islam, it's not my religion. So I can look at it
neutrally in theory, although there is no actual neutral examination of the religion,
neither your own nor anybody else's because we're always in such competition with one another.
But I'm not going to try to make Islam into something pretty if it's not pretty, okay? I really
want to be quite upfront about that from the beginning. You need to know what you're getting
in the interest of full disclosure. So the term in the path of God, in Arabic it's
in the path of God simply means whatever you're doing, you're doing it on behalf of God in the
community. That's the idea. Not that God needs our help if I'm, if I were a Muslim and speaking in
these terms, but that means like doing righteous deeds, giving charity, taking care of the sick,
defending the community. When it's doing it within a framework that is a religious framework,
that is on behalf of the community, which is overseen or observed by God, that's fisa bilillah.
So the Quranic, that's a Quranic term, it occurs quite a bit. And a lot of the actions that are
done in the path of God have nothing to do at all with fighting. Some do, but a lot don't. So
that needs to be clarified, I think. Yeah, and I'm glad we're starting with clarifications as
we engage this understanding. We all have our bias. Of course, I say upfront, like I think that
religions are constructs of man, perception based on time, culture, environment, you name it. And I
take the historical methodology, which kind of assumes a naturalistic tool in which we're working
to try and understand and grasp what happened. Whether someone goes beyond that ontologically,
I don't care. I'm interested in the facts, the history, what we can understand. So
I want to start off, I'm going to be, if that's okay with you, reading quotes from your book
to give context and then allow you to like elaborate if that's cool, because I really love
this book. Often, I usually reformulate something in my own phrase, like to my own phrases, but
this is so well written. I'm like, okay, I've got to get people to go and get this book. Again,
shameless plug. Get the book. Jihad, the origin of holy war. And we will, just for those who are
going, why are you talking about Islam? We're also going to deal with holy war in the Hebrew
Bible according to Judaism. So we're going to actually examine that as well. Judaism might
be anachronistic when we're dealing with Hebrew literature, but you get the point. Go check out
his books. And of course, check out MythVision's Patreon. Help support us and educate in the world.
I am trying to bridge some gaps and educate people to understand what is going on. We specifically
specialize mostly when it comes to Christianity and of course Hebrew Bible, but I am trying to
expand our horizon here. Okay, now to my question. And the first one is, you say the study of the
holy war phenomenon in early Islam is all the more interesting when we take into account the
overwhelming evidence that pre-Islamic Arabia knew of no notion of ideological war of any kind,
let alone religiously sanctioned war. How and why then did holy war become such a major component
of early Islam? And you say the problem may be stated most clearly as follows. While there's no
evidence of any pre-Islamic expression of religiously sanctioned war, it appears very early in Islam
as a highly developed and applied concept. How and why did holy war become such
an important item in Islam? Okay, so that's the question. And that's really sort of the
driving question for the book. And first of all, we need to talk about terminology a lot.
There is no word in Arabic, in traditional Arabic writings for holy war. It doesn't exist.
There is a term, and you can see it today, it's Harb is war, Muqaddas means holy. So Al-Harb al-Muqaddas
would be holy war. It doesn't exist in Islam. It also doesn't exist in Judaism. There's no
Milchama Kedusha in traditional Hebrew literature of any kind from the biblical period, the Middle
Ages. Only in the modern period do these concepts come into discourse. And the reason they come into
discourse is really because it's a reaction to Christianity and to Christian ideas that creep
in and that have an impact on these other religious traditions as well. So when I say holy war in
Islam, what I mean is how do we define what makes a war a holy war? And you have to kind of think
about that. I mean, why would it be holy? And my definition is a pretty simple definition,
and I use it when I write about Judaism and Islam and Christianity on this topic.
And that is if a community comes to the conclusion that the war that they are fighting is authorized
by God, then that's a holy war, period. Now, what does it mean to be authorized by God?
God may not have said in the year 1096, go out, you crusaders, and conquer Jerusalem.
God never said that. The Pope said that, not God. So what makes that a holy war? Because the Pope
is claiming to represent the will of God when he makes a proclamation in such an environment.
Okay, so that could be, you can say that wasn't a holy war. You could say it was driven by
political or economic or social or demographic issues, all of these that were affecting
what was going on in Europe in the 11th century, right? But it's called a holy war because the
people believe that for some, through, directly or indirectly, God is authorizing this engagement.
Okay, so that's how I look at it also in the Quran. There is no holy war as opposed to
non-holy war in the Quran. There is a term for war, and it's not jihad. The term in the Quran
for war is not used very often, that's sort of a standard generic term, or which really means
fighting. And the term, there is a term in going back to our first comment about in the path of
God, right? There's fighting in the path of God. That would be, I would define that as
sanctified war, authorized by God. Now, you may say that such and such a war is not authorized by
God. It's not, this war is not divinely authorized, but that's a matter of opinion about who is
engaging in the axe or who is the leader in that period of time. So I just want to kind of clarify
that. So yeah, so in the pre-Islamic period in Arabia, there doesn't seem to be any evidence for
godly driven wars. But that actually is an interesting observation because that actually
applies pretty much to everywhere. That is, before there was a thing that we call monotheism,
and the world was divided between different communities of people. Each community had its own
god or its own deity, almost like a mascot in some ways. When one community went to war with
another community, their god also went to war with the other community's god. So there was this kind
of tension. And the gods did fight. You can read it in the Hebrew Bible. You can read it in references
in Assyrian texts, in ancient Babylonian texts, where gods fight wars for the people, for the
Babylonians, and for the Assyrians. But these are not holy wars. These are just wars in which
one ethnic community, you might call it an ethnic community, tribal community,
whatever, is fighting another community. Part of that ethnicity is the god. The god belongs to
the community. The community belongs to the god. And so they're all fighting together.
And some would draw the conclusion, I'm not talking about scholars. I'm talking about people
living at the time. They would draw the conclusion that they won the war because their god is more
powerful than the god of the neighbor. Now, in that case, either every war is a holy war or no war
is a holy war. Because in all cases where people fight wars, the gods that are associated with
the people also fight in those wars. I think the Hebrew Bible says God is a man of war, actually.
And then I also like Paula Frederickson's statement about the gods running in the blood,
right? Like there's a connection between the gods and the people. And even with the Jewish people,
though they're not genealogically descended from their god, the same way many other people like
the Greco-Roman world would say, hey, our father, you know, go far enough back as actually a god,
they're adopted, right? So this notion of being adopted by Yahweh and like they actually end up
identifying as that's their father because he adopts them. Anyway, I just figured that's an
interesting key piece of information as we like move forward. But I want to ask since we've dealt
with a few definitions and you point out in the book, we have to start with definitions when we
deal with war. Jihad, what does Jihad mean? And then of course, it seems like it can be applied
to many things, including war. Maybe we'll start there and then we'll get into maybe
understandings. You can tell us of how different Muslims understood this over time.
Yeah. So yeah, so Jihad is not the operative term for war in the Quran. The operative term for
war in the Quran is a different term. That's where that's pita, that's fighting. And there's
fighting, there are all kinds of different kinds of fighting. But fighting in the path of God would
be what I would call holy war, divinely authorized war. There's also jihad in the path of God. And
that sometimes also refers to war. Sometimes jihad refers to other things. Jihad itself means to
struggle or to exert great effort, usually on behalf of something positive against something
that's negative. That's the sense of jihad in the Quran. So jihad became an operative, I think,
this is my opinion now, this is not a fact, that I think that jihad became an operative term
in Islam for what we would call holy war, because it actually reflects lots of different kinds of
practices that are considered sacred. Practices on behalf of the community, as I said earlier,
giving charity, required charity, taking care of the needy, struggling against difficult issues
on behalf of the community. That's sort of that notion. And since in some cases in the Quran,
it does refer to fighting, then later, Quranic, I mean, Muslim thinkers kind of read back and said,
this is the word that most perfectly expresses fighting on behalf of the community for God.
And so that became the operative term for what we would call holy war, even though it's used
pretty rarely in the Quran for war. Usually it's something else is used entirely. But there is
plenty of war in the Quran. There's a lot of discussion about war in the Quran. There's
discussion about peace in the Quran too, just like in all scriptures. And if I may just take
a little moment for this, I say this to my students all the time, I say that scripture never says
anything about anything. Scripture always says several or maybe many things about anything.
That is, there's always a range of perspective that's offered in an anthology of literature
what scripture is, whether it's the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament or the Quran. It's a collection
of statements and sermons and histories and parables and all kinds of things that are kind
of mixed together. And it's not absolutely consistent about most issues. So for example,
in all three of our scriptures, we can cite text, but it would take me a little
to put them together. I always tell my students also, don't trust anyone who says
scripture says this unless they actually give you the text. But in the interest of time,
I can't do that exactly today. But in all three of our scriptures, scripture reflects concern
for the world at large. God is concerned for the world. But there are also materials in our
scriptures where God is concerned for the community of believers. And that's really
the center focus, not the world. The world is all messed up. It's the community of believers
that God really cares about. And we find that in all of our scriptures. So does that mean that
scripture is only parochial and only cares about itself? No, it doesn't. But does it only care
about the whole world at large and never care about the believers? No, it's not that either.
There's always a range. And that same thing applies with war and fighting and conflict
resolution. In all of our scriptures, there are cases in which God, we understand that God is
saying we need to resolve these issues, not through fighting, but through other means.
And then there are other cases where it looks like God is saying you need to resolve these
issues by fighting them and even killing the enemy. So yeah, it's complicated.
Yeah, I like that approach because that is the reality. We have a lot of literature. And
this is why we have so many interpretations as well. There's so many, like what does your
community want to put at the forefront? What are they drawing the boundaries on scripturally
speaking? I also want to say, this is my little bias poking in again, is like the idea that God
loves the whole world. And then also, there seems to be clear contradictions at times where he
doesn't love certain people clearly. It's like, does he love them or not? And so for me, this is a
reflection of like, whoever these authors are, we're getting their perception of God, meaning
we're getting the perception of the deity that they're promoting or saying that they represent.
So to me, it's very anthropological. It's very man-oriented, even if it is saying it's
divinely oriented. Now, that's my bias. I just pointed out, anyway, I'd like to press four,
because you said something interesting about jihad. And in your book, you said,
when the term is used without qualifiers, such as of the heart or of the tongue,
however, it is universally understood as war on behalf of Islam, equivalent to jihad of the sword.
And the merits of engaging in such jihad are described plentifully in most respected religious
works. Nevertheless, and you point out, Muslim thinkers, and particularly ascetics and mystics,
often differentiate between the greater jihad, and I'm going to butcher this, but it's al jihad al
akbar, and the lesser jihad, al jihad al asgar, I hope I'm saying that right, with the former
representing the struggle against the self. So the greater jihad is really like the major one
that they want to say is representative of jihad is like against the self, and only the lesser
jihad referring to warring in the path of God. I know this is your opinion versus their opinions,
or maybe you have a similar opinion. Do you think that this is somehow the ethics
developed over time and mystics and those later are kind of wanting to get away from the more
physical warring against other peoples and try to live in peace? And so they're kind of,
I don't want to use the word apologetic, but I feel like it's kind of a way of saying,
let's redefine this. We really shouldn't live so warlike. What are your thoughts?
That's a good question, because there is a term in this discipline of study of Scripture called
reception tradition, or reception tradition, right? And what that means is, how was Scripture
received? How is it read by people through history? So if you are a religious person,
a Christian, a Muslim, a Jew, and you're reading your Scripture as a religious text,
you are reading it with your own self involved in the process. So there's all kinds of research
now on how do people read? How do we read whenever we read? We always invest ourselves in the story
that we're reading. We read it from our own perspective, from our own context, our own issues,
our own emotions at the time. And all of us have experienced reading something. It could be, I don't
know, a Psalm that after having a wonderful experience of having a new baby, we read this
same Psalm and suddenly it has a new meaning, or we lose a loved one and we read the same Psalm and
suddenly that has a new meaning that we didn't know before, because our context, our life,
our emotional place always infuses meaning into whatever we read. Now that has always been the
case, and it's the way people read. So let's just deal with Islam now, because I like thinking about
this and always comparatively. Can I say why I think we do that is to be fair, to show you
that we're willing to do that to other scriptures, and I think that's a great approach in comparing
it. Anyway, I'm with you. I love it. And I should just mention that the reason that I wrote a book
called Holy War in Judaism is because I wrote a book called Holy War in Islam and I felt that
it wasn't fair for me to write a critical examination of this phenomenon in another
religion if I'm not doing the same thing in my own tradition. So that's what actually brought me there.
But let's go back to the topic. So the Quran reflects, the actual Quran itself
reflects a relatively short period in human history. It's about 23 years during the life
of the Prophet Muhammad when he was receiving revelations from God. Now whether he was really
receiving revelations or whether he was really a prophet to me doesn't really matter. I'm not
concerned about that. I don't want to prove yes. I don't want to prove no. But the Quran itself is
articulated as a series of revelations and it reflects the geopolitical and the contextual
historical situation at the time. So that was around somewhere around six, early 600s, okay,
up to about 632, right? So 610 or something like that, 632. And during that time, the Muslim community,
that is the community that was following Muhammad, was countered because they were threatening to
other established communities that were already there. The most serious threat to the early Muslims
were Arabs who were practicing indigenous, polytheistic, Arabian religion. And when Mohammed
said you should get rid of your idols because they're not going to help you, that was threatening to
people who really loved their idols and were associated with that religious tradition. So
there was pushback and it started out kind of benign, just arguing. And you can kind of, at least
some people say that the Quran really reflects this historically. And there were cases when it
became really nasty and there was a lot of violence directed against the Muslim community. And the
Muslim community responded in kind when it had the power to do so. So this is also a complicated
issue which is dealt with in some detail in the book. So if you're interested in the details,
you can read the book. In my view, the Quran does not ever call for conquest. The Quran itself,
not the reception history of the Quran, but the Quran for what it's actually saying in its own
context, seems to be calling for defense of the community and then in some cases expansion of
the community and punishing those who were trying to destroy it. So it's not only defensive war in
the Quran. That's a lot of defensive war, but sometimes it's initiating war against those
people who were trying to undermine the life of the Prophet and the people who are following him.
But it never calls for like world conquest. It never says to take over other communities. It's
really very centered around the idea of Arabia. It doesn't talk about the Holy Land. It doesn't
talk about Iran, North Africa, the rest of the world. But that material was read later because
there was a successful conquest, which I don't think was driven so much by the Quran a little
bit maybe. But the conquest happened and some historians believe it was almost an accident
because this gets complicated, but the great empires at the time, the Byzantine Empire and
the Persian Empire, were exhausted from fighting each other for two generations and they were like
could hardly even stand on their feet. And so when these Arabian warriors came out and they
sort of tested the waters to see if they could capture some more land, not for God, not for
conversion, but just for control, power, wealth, they were immensely successful. And that continued
for a generation, two generations, a hundred years. So when you then control people and remember
these guys who took over this area, we're talking about a conquest where a hundred square miles a
day of territory was conquered for a hundred years, all of North Africa up into Spain. It was
amazing. But the people that they conquered were not Muslims and they didn't convert to Islam and
they were not forced to convert to Islam. And the Muslim community that was in control was a minority
community and they were actually anxious about living among all these people that they had conquered
because they would rise up against them and kill them. They even established what they called
Ansar, these kind of communities or cities outside of the major areas so that they could
protect themselves from the local population. So here's the situation. You conquer someone
and you have the power and you take the palaces and everybody else has to live in the hovels
and you've got all this great wealth and you're accumulating wealth. You might be trying to govern
people nicely but sure you conquered, you lost a lot of people, it was painful, you deserve to
get the wealth and the riches and that's always has happened with all conquests at all times
including today. So then they're in an interesting situation. The Muslims are in a position of
control and everybody else is in a position of being sub-dominant to the Muslim community
and that works when you first conquer because you're overwhelming them with your power.
But then after a generation or two people start saying, why does he have to get to live up on
the hill and we have to live down here in this stinky valley where the waters are not clean
and they're living where the air is good and they're in the palaces. There's nothing inherently
natural about that. I want to live in the palace and so I think that Muslim readers of the Quran
began in their reception history, began to read into the Quran this notion of conquest
and that God really wants the community of people to be in control, not to force people to Islam
because that is not part of the conquest. Conquest is political control, not forcibly converting
people. There were cases where people were forcibly converted but that was exceptional.
So I believe that there is what I call an imperialist interpretive overlay that sort
of placed on the Quran to justify conquest and that became codified in Islamic histories
and legal literature but it's not really in the Quran. We do analogies, right?
I think the same thing in a different area can be described of Christianity, doctrine
of the Trinity if we're doing theology or some other thing becomes codified as the
interpretive method for Orthodox Christianity. I imagine just war theory when they actually
start to try and find a way. Well, we got to get rid of these people or we've got to handle this.
How do we do it and not turn the other cheek which will cause us to be annihilated?
We've got to find a way. We've got the Hebrew scriptures. We've got these words from Christ.
In fact, he is going to come back with a sword. He's going to destroy all people.
Maybe they find some way. I wanted to backtrack because we went really far into the future.
Back to the context. This is what I love about your book. It's about, it's not about,
you mentioned two, three, four centuries after the Quran's development of theologians, exegetes,
medieval exegetes and others, how they're interpreting things. You mentioned these things
but I think your whole focus and goal ultimately is like, what is the Quran saying? What is going
on? You show the wrestle, the wrestling within the exegetes and scholars of Islam as they can't
even agree in early communities for the first four or five centuries, can't even agree on many of these
issues that we're talking about, kind of like the early church, couldn't agree on Jesus as
Christology and things. I want to bring it back to give some context before Islam rises
and this is my question. Arabian fatalism and I wanted to phrase it in, maybe you could tell us
a little bit about Arabian fatalism or the idea of fate. I used fatalism, kind of the notion that
it is what it is. What happens is what happens, you can't escape death. Death is our fate and war
and maybe we can tie that into, I'm wondering if this idea of rewards for your death
and getting heaven and things like this that comes with dying in combat or overcoming in combat.
I see this martyrdom idea in Christianity where a martyr or someone who dies goes directly to heaven
for their faith. Do you think that influence is there? So we went from pre-Arabia fate. How does
that maybe play into warfare and is there any influence you think from Christianity's martyrdom
concepts into warfare as well within early Islam? Right. Well, we don't know a lot about
pre-Islamic religion because it was really suppressed by the Muslim historians. They wanted to
paint a picture of the pre-Islamic period as a time of terrible ignorance until God gave the
revelation of the Koran to bring light to this community and realize the truth of monotheism
and perhaps the coming apocalypse, but the notion of reward and punishment in a world to come.
It doesn't seem to have been very much a part of pre-Islamic Arabian religious tradition,
although there were Jews and Christians living in Arabia if it did believe in the idea of reward
and punishment in the world to come. So it's complicated. It's hard to kind of parse out
what was influencing what at the time. But the Koran really does say several times that people
who die if they're fighting in the path of God, now what does in the path of God mean? It doesn't
mean conquest. It doesn't mean defense. It just means in the path of God. It could be any of those.
It could be all of them. That's right. So how are you going to make sense of that? But people who
do fight in the path of God and if they are killed, they will have eternal life. They will
go immediately to heaven. So that's there in the Koran. And that follows a Christian
martyrology positions that if you die in the path of God, like being faithful to your faith,
then you will go to heaven as well. So it's less aggressive in the early Muslim literature. It's
not aggressive at all. But later on in the Crusader period, it becomes very aggressive.
And the reason I keep jumping away from Islam is because if we only look at one religious
tradition, we think that that's where it's all at and it's not influencing one another.
At the height of the militancy in Christianity, killing a person would actually be an act of
atonement for other sins of greed or what is it, lusting after someone or rape. And you kill an
enemy, you'll actually atone for your other sins from killing someone. And that seems like crazy.
It's not certainly not New Testament. It's not early church fathers, but then it becomes that. So
it's that way in the Koran too. In the Koran, it's earlier because Islam became more militant
earlier than Christianity. Sometimes we should really talk about Christianity because Christianity
starts out as a quietist religion, a non-militant tradition, but it changes radically from non-militants
to extreme militants. And one of the questions that I ask in a course that I teach called Holy
War in History is what makes a religion change its viewpoint so radically in the Christianity
change from quietism to militarism. Ancient Judaism changed from militarism to quietism.
And now it looks like it may be changing back into more militarism again.
At least in certain areas of the world. Yeah. That's right. So these are questions. I just
want to complicate things a little bit. I love how complicated you are. I'm telling you because
this is great. It's a great topic. I'm with you. Let's talk about that at some point as well.
And in fact, I'm actually planning on doing an interview on Christian nationalism from a scholar
who's kind of going into that. Because to be honest with you, look at how much warmongering is on the
side of Christian nationalist in America, right? This promotion for warfare and stuff. Funny how
Christianity just fits hand and glove with war in modern America for many evangelicals. So
that's a whole other topic that I think we could dabble into as we explore Christianity and how
violent it really gets. I love that you do that because it's like not one tradition has all the
sins, so to speak. They all have it. They're all guilty. Everybody. And to some degree, right? So
you got to check yourself and check your own community and try to find balance. Now, I wanted
to bring up the idea of pre-Islamic Arabian tribes that would kind of go and raid each other. It
was actually known according to what you described in the book. It was like encouraged and in fact,
you were a better tribe for going and raiding and taking the stuff of other people and selling
off their women and children and things like that. It was kind of, I don't want to be derogatory,
but barbaric, right? And it seems that way. Of course, we're not in that culture. Now,
if we were back then and if it was us, of course, we wouldn't want that to be us being called barbaric.
But according to our ethics, the way we try to live today, this was encouraged to go and raid
and do these things. And Islam comes on the scene and you describe the idea, and I love how you
get into this one term. I can't remember the term. I'd have to pull up the reference, but
you point out how there was darkness. But is this ignorance of being pagan? Is it darkness because
of the paganism or is it darkness because there was no standard legal governance on how to behave
and act as a religious governing rather than just community, tribal distinctions between small little
groups and stuff. And there's not really any law and order, so to speak. Can you dabble into that
a little bit? Yeah, it seems as far as we know, right? Everything is controversial because how
much do we know about the culture in ancient periods of time? What kind of evidence do we have to
really buttress our assumptions about the culture? But it seems in the pre-Islamic Arabian context,
there was no overarching government. There was no political rule in Arabia. Arabia was ruled by
various tribal communities that had their own systems. And as you said, if their neighboring
tribal community was too weak or too irresponsible to take care of their flocks, they don't deserve
to have their flocks. We can take their flocks. And so you could raid your next door neighbor as
long as it's not a member of your tribe or your extended tribe, right? Because there's kinship
identity. And these were smallish groups of people who were in conflict with one another. Now I want
to complicate this a little bit. Something like this today in the nation state. If another nation
state is too weak, we can begin to dominate their economy. We can control access to markets. We can
take their natural resources. We can do this. And so the mentality is not all that different
from the pre-Islamic or pre-empire world. It's much smaller context, right? So yeah. So that was
the way it went. And the culture of pre-Islamic Arabia was one that was very ethnic or tribal.
Let's say tribal. So you knew everybody who was in your tribe. And in addition to your tribe,
well, what is a tribe? I mean, there's a family, a nuclear family, an extended family.
Maybe a clan. There's a few couple of extended families that are together. And then a few clans
were together in their tribe. And then a bunch of tribes maybe get together and form a tribal
federation. The farther you are away from your mother's family or your mother and father's family,
the less you know them, the less you have a relationship with them, the less you feel responsible
for them or feel that they're responsible for you. Not so different than what we have today.
You know? And so that was the way it worked. Now, one of the, perhaps one of the most brilliant
things that Muhammad did to unify this warring, multi-ethnic, multi-tribal community of Arabians
was to redefine the notion of tribe and to say, no, it's not just who you're born to. It's not
just by chance. We who believe in this one God, we are a new tribe. We're a tribe of believers.
The term that's used is umma. Umma means the community or tribe of believers. And by saying
to everybody, you don't have to fight each other all the time. We can be friends with one another
because we're under the one God who wants us to act and behave in a reasonable way,
moral, ethical kind of ethical monotheism. And then we can resolve all these kind of conflicts
that we had before between one another, killing each other and raiding one another. And when you
did raid in the pre-Islamic period, if you haven't forbid you killed somebody from the other side,
then they would have to kill someone back on your side because there was no police force. There was
no legal system that was trans, that transcended the tribal boundaries. And so that was the way
it worked. But under the Islamic system, there was God who was the ultimate judge. And God was
represented by his prophet, Muhammad. And so that was a way to resolve disputes and bring all these
disparate communities together. And that succeeded. And that's one of the reasons why Islam became so
successful. Okay, this is there's so many interesting things that you said there that came to mind as
well about tribal, ethnic, how we want to describe it here. And even the way it goes out after Muhammad
dies. I'm reminded of the book by Leslie Hazelton. It's a fun Shi'i Sunni split book, really well
read or well written, where you have family ties that are trying to say, Hey, keep it in the family.
We're supposed to pass this baton off the baton to the next generation of descendants or family
members. And the others are going, No, no, no, it's community. It's not clan related. It's not
tribalistic. And so you do find like this still alive when he when he's done when he's gone.
Let's see that that plagues the Muslim community even to this day, because there are lots of ethnic
divisions between Muslims, just in the big in the big picture, Arab Muslims versus Turkish Muslims
versus Persian Muslims. And there are cultural differences. But that's the way people are people
just they divide themselves over cultural issues, what you feel more comfortable with and who you
feel more comfortable being with. Yeah. And by the way, I imagine our sources are kind of,
they're not great sources, but the earliest sources we have are Paul, but Paul's engaging with James
and Keith is over in Jerusalem. And I wouldn't be surprised. I kind of take the notion that
James is kind of a caliphate of Jesus. He's carrying that baton. And of course, Christianity
radically changes when it expands over time, post war, all of this with Gentile inclusion,
the whole nine. So like, I wouldn't be shocked if it was a family thing as well with Jesus. And
anyway, that's a whole another can of worms. But I want to compare as we've been doing in
this episode, I want to show that we aren't just zeroed in on one thing. It's everybody's got
something that we can try to relate to here as far as the Abrahamic faiths go.
You say as Islam continued to evolve after the collection and redaction of the
Quranic revelations, some of the pre Islamic artifacts retained in scripture disturbed
later generations. Quranic exegesis attempted, among other things, to mitigate or eliminate
some of these in their interpretations of scripture. Chapter three examines a field of
chronic interpretation that adjusted the meaning of scripture in order, in order for it to convey
a message more appropriate for an evolving worldview. And I imagine that means to their
contemporary setting. So what are some of the things that are, can I use the word archaic,
pre pre Islam that is in the Quran that later exegetes had a problem with?
That's a good question. I don't, I don't, nothing is coming to mind.
I didn't get you prepared for this. That's the problem. I hit you out of nowhere with this one.
Yeah. Well, the Quran, I'm not, I'm not sure if this, so we're talking about how the Quran
deals with pre Islamic material or how does post Quranic interpretation deal with Quranic views
of pre Islamic material. Right, right. That's the one I was trying to get at is like, what were some
of the things we would call them, um, embarrassments, right? The Christian look at the gospel mark.
Mark sees Jesus is baptized and literally for the remission of sins. Matthew can't have that. Jesus
did not sin. He's sinless. Like how the heck could he be baptized for sins when he's sinless?
So you kind of see redactions or changes or problems. And so we need to back up from that one.
Do you see, and sometimes it's, it's, they go all into it, but they reinterpret the meaning.
Do you think, are there things like that in the Quran that you can pick up?
Yeah. I mean, here's the, here's the classic example. The Quran has, has three, three references
to drinking alcohol. One reference. Now, I don't know if I have this exactly right,
but one reference says it's probably not such a good idea. Another reference says,
don't drink if you're going to pray, right? Don't, don't drink before you pray. And then the third
reference says drinking is a bad thing and it's associated with other bad things. So, all right.
So the Quran seems to be responding to a problem. The problem was the problem that every community
has with alcohol, which is if you drink too much, or if you drink unwisely, if you drink irresponsibly,
it's bad for you, your family, and the community in general, right? But the Quran doesn't really
outlaw it. It says, has three different positions on it. Now, that didn't sit well with later exegetes
or Muslims because they, because if God is all knowing and God is just, then why would God give
different answers? That, that doesn't make any sense. So we have to protect our view of God on
the one hand. And secondly, we have to deal with this issue of alcohol. And so, and what looks
like contradiction within the text of the Quran. And in order to resolve that problem,
a methodology was developed, not just for this problem, but for a lot of other problems. Because
remember what I said, a scripture never says one thing about anything. It says many things about
everything. So in this case, it was determined or it was understood, it was suggested, that's
probably the better word, that the early references to drinking in the Quran said it's not so bad.
But as it became clear to the community that it's not a good idea, the last reference in the Quran
said, don't drink. And that reference abrogates the references earlier, you can't get rid of the
earlier material because it's God's word. So it's there in the Quran. But you can say that the last
reference is the one that's determinant, that determines the position, the policy. Fine, that
solves it. I think we lost Dr. Firestone. Bear with me here.
I'm loving this, we're getting an abrogation, of course, which is later Surah's
abrogate or negate earlier ones, or there's like an update or something changing as earlier.
This is very interesting for people who are watching who've never
examined the Quran or even read it. If you go to read it, you'll feel like you're out of place
over and over and over, like, well, what's the meaning of this? What's going on here?
And there's a lot going on here. So let's hope he was not raptured as Dan Smith says in the chat.
I know he'll come back. Give him just a moment here. I need to give him
give him my number so he can actually contact me whenever this stuff happens.
But let's wait. Let's wait for Dr. Firestone because I have many other notes. We're getting
into some of the juicy stuff and interesting parts of his book. And it gets down into the weeds of
early exodutes and who says what and about what and how they get to these warlike material and
interpreting this war material. And it's really interesting the way that we've been describing
it thus far, getting up to the context of what is the Quran engaging in in Arabia? What is the
issue between Medinans and Mecca? And where is where is Muhammad at? Is he still in Mecca? Has
he made it to Medinah? Is he in power yet? Is he not? And like the way that exodutes are trying
to explain abrogated texts and things, it is complicated. I must tell you, it is very complicated.
It is not simple. And just anyone should just get it. And no wonder there's so many views and so
many people out there who are saying things about this. So I definitely hope that he pops in here
in just a moment. Maybe his computer died. Maybe. Hold on. Waiting for him to email me if he is
going to make it back. I hope everybody's doing good in the chat. Mojo says, did you read the whole
Quran? I have read through the whole Quran. And I plan on reading through it more like I do critically
with the New Testament, of course, the Hebrew Bible. But you know, your first go through, you're
like, whoa, like some moments I have to reread stuff to try and get what it is. And it's not
simple. So I imagine people need commentaries or the tafsir to understand the context by
different people. And they don't agree on what's always happening in the context and when in
history these things happen, which is interesting to me. It's just interesting to see this. So
I am interested in covering specific verses that we're going to get into that are oftentimes quoted
as defensive passages or even offensive passages and what the meaning of them in the original
context may have been understood to mean. All of that will be discussed here. We're just waiting
for Dr. Firestone. Feel free to super chat your questions, of course, and we will get to them in
Q&A. I'm looking forward to that to see in what kind of questions come up from our audience.
And let's see what we have here. Here he is. He was raptured.
We don't have heat. I arranged for people to come an hour after this was supposed to be over. They
came early and they left the electricity. That's what happened. I got to get you my number if
ever anything ever happens. You're more than welcome to reach out to me. I just sent you
an email with my number for you to call me if you weren't able to get back on. Sorry about that.
Hey, no problem. No problem. You're still here. I almost said he had a living apotheosis, but
that's off topic. So maybe we can start getting into some of the statements that you've made here.
And I figure why not read some of your amazing book to get some context if that's cool with you.
In one passage, this is going to sound like it's taken out of context. Trust me. Read the book.
He's very balanced in this. The most often cited verses express a highly ideological approach to war.
They are understood to command unlimited war against non-Muslims,
enjoin the killing of idolaters, and refuse to offer peace until Islam is hegemonic religion.
Is the hegemonic religion. And then that, I think the point is, is you're going to, you
rightly share. There are some people who want to say these passages in the Qur'an, and we're going
to get into the context more. I'm going to read it to you too. So you know, like, we'll get into
this or we'll mention some of these things. But there are people who want to paint all of this
literature as completely warlike. Every, there's just like almost an inhumane approach to this
literature. And then there are those who kind of come at it so apologetically that there's nothing
here that is even remotely, you know, something that we would say, ooh, not something we should
probably live by or something we should practice. And you mentioned abrogation, which is something
we're getting into as we discuss this. This makes it even more complicated to me and more
difficult to get to or ascertain what the context really is when this service written or said,
in the life of Muhammad. So can I continue reading something here? Or did you want to
make a comment about that? You're sure that that's fine for you to read. I'm thinking about
some comments. But okay, I don't want to take away your comments. Because by the time you hear the
next thing read, this is a little long winded, but it's worth it. And this is on this chapter,
the Qur'an, the traditional reading and its inherent weakness. The Qur'an has much to say
about warring. And at first sight, its views seem to be quite at variance from what we know of
pre-Islamic Arabian views. The most often cited verses express a highly ideological approach to
war. They are understood to command unlimited war against non-Muslims and join the killing of
idolaters and refuse to offer peace until Islam is the hegemonic religion. The Qur'an message on
the topic, however, is actually far from consistent. So you're now showing like that understanding
of it is just not being fair balanced understanding. It's complicated. The verses on warring are
numerous amount to scores and number and are spread out over more than a dozen chapters. The
major challenge for understanding their meaning lies in the problem of verse relationships and the
fact that the context of many pronouncements remain uncertain. As noted above, for example,
it is difficult to know whether a verse is supposed to be read in relation to the verse.
The verses among which it is currently situated. This is audience, please understand this. This is
very important as we're diving into the Qur'an to understand this stuff. So is it supposed to be
read in the relation to the verses among which it is currently situated the verses before or after
or whether it should be read independently, almost like here's just this pericope out of
nowhere like the Gospel of Thomas. It is likely given the relatively large collection of sometimes
unrelated verses on warring in Surahs two, three, eight, nine, for example, that individual statements
on war, which had been separated from their context during the oral stage of the Qur'an,
were inserted into larger sections treating the topic because of the obviously similar similarity
of subject matter. So rather than it being a narrative, it's like, Hey, this is talking about war,
where we're going to put other pericopees that talk about war sound like they're talking about war
in the same context. The insertion of such verse sometimes confuses the meaning and relationship
of the verse into which they had been inserted. Some Qur'anic statements may or may not even
refer to war, depending on how one views their context versus before and after, or even like
when was this when was this said in what part of Muhammad's life, where what is he fighting against
the Medinans? Is there a war going on between them and the other Quresh, etc, etc, but are
nevertheless considered by post-Quranic tradition as articulating divine pronouncements on the subject?
The sentiments, ideologies, concepts, and attitudes expressed by the mini verses cover a wide range
of positions. Some such as Surah 16-125 call for what appears to be non-militant means of propagating
or defending the faith. Summon to the way of your Lord with wisdom and good admonition,
and argue against them with what is better. For your Lord knows best who has strayed from
his path and who has been guided. Others such as Surah 22-39-40 seem to sanction fighting for
defensive purposes only. Now, I'm not going to read the rest of this, but I wanted to show the
complexity in explaining the issue we're dealing with when we're reading the Qur'an and like context
and you can't just read it. Like I'm reading John chapter five and I'm just reading this whole
chapter. You can, but you're not, you know what I mean? This is not that easy. It's not just a story.
Yeah, so let me try to explain how this works. The revelation of the Qur'an is laid out
not according to chronology. Now, the Gospels work with a certain chronology, right? I mean,
you know, it leads up until the final end of Jesus's life. So you've got to actually have a
movement. It's a story. The Hebrew Bible has a chronology throughout beginning with creation and
then ending with the destruction of the temple and a dispersion. And interestingly enough,
the Christian version of the Hebrew Bible and the Jewish version of the Hebrew Bible have a
different order of books and it actually has a slightly different narrative and it actually has
a theological difference based on that different organization. We won't go there right now.
But the Qur'an has no chronology whatsoever. You can pick up any portion of the Qur'an and start
reading it and you're in the same place. You don't know what came first, what came next.
There are stories. There are individual stories in the Qur'an that have their own narrative,
like the story of Joseph, for example, which is quite similar to the story of Joseph is found in
the Hebrew Bible, right? But the Qur'an itself as a whole does not. So you don't know. You cannot
tell from the location in the Qur'an when a verse was revealed or if it was revealed earlier or later
in relation to other verses. So in order to figure out which came first and which came second, which
was important because of the reason I explained earlier, the later verses, if there's a difference
and if it looks like there's a contradiction or a conflict between different revelations in the
Qur'an, all you need to do is find out which is the latest revelation and that's the one that you
follow. That's the one that takes precedence. So in the case of war, we talked about that in the case
of alcohol. In the case of war, you have the same issue. You have some verses that as you read
are, you know, let's problem solve through beautiful preaching and not get into conflict,
right? We don't need to do that. And some verses are extremely militant and say kill them wherever
you find them and, you know, because they're trying to push you out, so you push them out,
stuff like that. So how do you know which one you're supposed to follow? And the Qur'an does not
tell you. And so the thinkers, Muslim religious thinkers, in order to try to find out what should
be the standard practice or the standard position on war, came up with this understanding, a way
to chronologize all of these parts of the Qur'an that are not found in any chronological order.
And in doing so, they argued, and this is what I call the imperialist interpretive overlay,
they argue that God told Muhammad in the community of Muslims not to fight at the beginning. They
were weak. They had no, they couldn't protect themselves. And if they would have fought back
against people who were insulting them and even beating them, then they would have been destroyed
and they would have failed. So God said, don't fight. And then as they became increasingly
more powerful and more confident, God gave them more sanction to engage in more militant behavior
until at the very end of Muhammad's career as a prophet, God said, go out and fight them,
conquer, control, take over, and don't stop until the word of God becomes the dominant word
in the world. And there's a verse that will support that. So that has been the kind of
dominant position in Islam. Now, I argue that that position developed simply because Muslims
were in that position where they needed to justify control over so many different people.
And that this is God's will that we're in control over you Christians and Jews and atheists and
other people. And we need to stay vigilant and stay militaristic so that we can continue to be
a great and powerful empire. But that's not in the Quran. I argue that maybe we could read the
Quran in different ways. Now, first of all, why do I say that that interpretive strategy is not
correct? Because if you look at the different Quran scholars who place the different verses
in their chronological order, you'll find that they can't agree about anything.
That's what you do really well of that. Yeah. And since they can't agree, then it's not clear
that that was even the case in the first place. So I say you can't rely on that. It might be true.
I'm not saying it's not true, but you can't rely on it. But which one's true? Right.
Which came first? So I suggest that you could read these verses as reflecting different positions
within the early Muslim community. Some verses supported factions in the community that were
extremely militant. And some verses supported factions in the community that were quietest,
that were anti-militant. There might have even been pacifist communities in that early Muslim
community. We know from the formation of Christianity and Judaism that there are always
different factions within the community, different people who have different positions on things.
And they're always jousting with one another over who would become,
which position would be the dominant, the Orthodox position, the position that should
be pushed. And the same thing happened in Islam. What often happens in these cases is that the
more militant positions win out because they're willing to risk more in order to push their
position. That makes a lot of sense. In my view, the more militant position worked out,
won out in Islam, but it only went out after the conquest already had happened.
It's funny because the reverse is actually the case in Judaism, especially around the turn of
the first, second century. Because if you're going to survive with Rome, you have to play the
opposite of the war battle. It's funny how that worked historically where rabbinic Judaism really
survived because they were like, we've got to comply. There's got to be some type of
complying here because they weren't the head honchos, so to speak. And if they were,
then maybe they would have been, and that would have been history. And we'd have been like, look,
they conquered like the Muslims conquered, but it's interesting the reverse took place.
The Jews who did not fight against are really the ones who won history in that time.
But one could also argue that's because all the leaders were killed by the Romans,
including the rabbis. There were rabbinic leaders, Rabbi Akiva, who was this great and
very powerful, beloved leader of the rabbinic community, was a militant. And he supported
this militant messianic general, and the general was killed and Akiva was killed.
They had queens with, yeah. The survivors were those who had a different narrative,
and they were the ones who became dominant. And they kind of retooled Judaism
from a biblical militaristic expression to a quietist rabbinic expression. That's interesting.
And we're going to definitely get into that in that episode about your book on, you know,
Holy War, right, and Judaism. Getting back to your book, and you said this, I'm clarifying what
you're saying here. In the case of warring, for example, does Islamic scripture prescribe avoidance
of violence in propagating and defending the faith, Surah 16, 125, defensive wars only,
Surah 22, 39, to 40, or unrestricted warfare, Surah 9, 5. The theological and political
implications regarding such seemingly indecisive or scattered divine pronouncements, greatly
disturbed Muslim religious scholars, and they sought to organize the revelation in a way that
would provide clarity to this issue as well as other difficult issues. We talked about
abrogation, and then you say this, I love this, using the methodologies developed in both, and
I'm going to mispronounce this, correct me here, Asbab? Asbab, yeah, Asbab and Azul, yeah. Okay,
in the Asbab and Azul materials, Muslim scholars came to the conclusion that the scriptural
verses regarding war were revealed in direct relation, catch this everybody, in direct
relation to the historic needs of Muhammad during his prophetic mission. At the beginning of his
prophetic career, as you described in Mecca, when he was weak and his followers were few,
the divine revelations encouraged avoidance of physical conflict. They're not strong enough
to win anyway, so why would we, just to go to suicide and die? Only after the intense physical
persecution that resulted in the immigration, hijra, of the Muslim community to Medina in
622, were Muhammad and the believers given divine authority to engage in war, and only in defense.
As the Muslim community continued to grow in numbers and strengthen Medina, further revelations
widened the conditioned and narrowed the restrictions under which war could be waged, until it was
concluded that war against non-Muslims could be waged virtually at any time, without pretext,
and in any place. That's the reception history, that's how it was understood after, right?
Right, and I just clarify like, you know, you might read a passage and I find this a lot
when you engage online, where Muslims go, no, no, no, we're supposed to, you know,
be non-violent, and they'll find the surahs that are within the context of the Quran, and I encourage
the peace, right? I'm like, yeah, of course. But you do have certain groups that are militant,
that are actually out there using the uglier verses, I'll call them, to subjugate or to go and conquer
and to say, no, we're supposed to fight and kill on behalf, and these are where we get these extremist
ideas. But it's not like one size fits all, we have to be able to differentiate and not paint
everybody in the same category. This gets into the extremist groups that are out there. And
that's jumping ahead. But my question is, like, there are many Muslims I hear say, no, they are
misunderstanding, and they are not properly reading the Quran in context, or they're butchering the
historical context to make it fit their militaristic approach, the political militaristic approach.
What do you say to that? Yeah, so from a purely unconnected, disconnected, I guess you could
say, kind of so-called scholarly view, how do you determine what a scripture is actually saying?
You can't make that determination. Everything is a narrative. Everything is the way people
read. Remember, we talked about reading, you read yourself into the text. If the way I sometimes
teach this is something similar to what I said earlier, that is, if you're really angry, you're
really angry and you're really upset, because people have been really mean to you and your family,
your family might be starving, or you may have been abused, and you're going to resonate
probably, not necessarily, but you might resonate more with those verses that say, kill the bastards
in any scripture. So you're going to feel like you don't have a fair deal in life,
there are bad guys out there, your life is really rough, and you really are resenting it,
and you're angry, and you can find verses that will support that position. If you are living a
pretty happy life and pretty generally feeling good about things with yourself, you're going to
resonate with the happy verses. That's just sort of how it happens. So there are, in every community,
there are people who are suffering, and there are people who are really treated poorly, and people
who, for whatever reasons, are reading verses in a different way than other people. So who has the
right to say that's the true read or not? I mean, that's contentious. And this is where we deal with
the problem of who controls the narrative, the narrative. And today, in the Muslim world, there
are various narratives that are being jostled about, and in competition with one another,
over what does God really demand of the Muslim community in the world, these are the other
people, Jews, Christians, polytheists, other people. And some who are very militant are pointing to
the militant verses, and some who are acquiescent are pointing to those verses, and others are
pointing to different sets of verses. So that's just the way it works. And I don't believe from
my own research that the Qur'an is as militant as al-Qaeda or ISIS proponents would say, and I
don't think the Qur'an or the Hadith literature, for that matter, that is another authoritative
literature in Islam that has a big, in fact, influence on behavior, I don't think that they are
so militant as these militant people would suggest. And there are people who are pushing
back against that narrative. Lots of Muslims are pushing back against that narrative and saying that's
not the case. And a classic example of that is the controversy over what's the real jihad,
what's the greater jihad? Is the greater jihad militancy going out and actually fighting wars
and battles, or is the greater jihad fighting and struggling against your own evil inclination in
your own soul? And there is a famous Hadith, which it turns out is not so authentic, probably,
which says that when the warriors came back from a raid and they came back to the Prophet and they
said, well, it was tough, but we got it, we made it and we're back. And then Muhammad says to them,
well, you just came back from the lesser jihad. Now is the time to think about the greater jihad.
And then they would say, well, what's the greater jihad? We were just risking our lives for the
community and to get spoils and to do these things that we were supposed to do. What's greater than
that? What's more risky than that? And he said, battling your own evil inclination, the evil part
inside your own soul. So that's a controversy today over what is the true meaning of jihad.
I love how you painted that. And yeah, I hope that that gets further and further away from the
thinking. I'd love to have a more peaceful world. At the same time, I think it's important to point
out, looking at the Quran and trying to understand in the historical context, these examples that are
set where they're set in history. See, I'm a big fan of trying to understand what something maybe
had meant to the people originally. And that would help, I would think solve a lot of problems,
fights, wars, things like that. We could understand the context in which this stuff is written.
And I'm wondering if the Quran, based on what we've been talking about, how later narratives are
spun and developments are made to try and wrestle with contradictions and aggregations and what's
the deal? I'm wondering if we put Muhammad, the sayings that are coming in the Quran from Muhammad,
that are revelations in his context, in the hidra, in the context of Medina and Mecca and all of this.
If that was the context and that was it, I understand trying to make this about all life
forever. Many people say this is sacred scripture. It always talks to us. But if we understood it in
that context, wouldn't that help people if they did get into that and say, hey, this isn't about
us going and conquering the West, or it's not about the West going and conquering this, or
it's not about this. This is the context, the historical context, or is Muhammad was doing
this in this situation? Maybe we could take away a lesson, but should we actually follow and act
because he had tribal issues between him and other Qureshi or whoever they were,
that therefore we should mimic this and imitate this in Europe or in whatever context that they're
living in today? It's that issue. You see what I'm trying to get at?
Yes. This is the perennial problem of scripture. In the monotheistic traditions,
in the scriptural monotheisms, the authority for everything is God. God is the ultimate authority
for everything, for your salvation, for your behavior, for how to live your life, how to pray,
all this stuff. God is the ultimate authority. Problem is you can't get to God.
You can't just call God up and just have a conversation. It just doesn't work. Now,
there's some people who feel that God is speaking to them, but oftentimes they can't convince other
people that that's the case. That's a personal thing. For a community, how do you determine how
to live your life? You find out from God, but God is not revealing anymore for most communities.
There are a few communities where there's ongoing revelation, but most Christian
communities, Jewish communities and Muslim communities, that's not happening. Scripture
revelation is over. It's canonized into a text that it has a beginning, it has an end. There's no
more revelation after the canonization of that text. So how do you make sense of what God wants?
Well, there are two basic ways to do that. One is you look at the text and you say,
well, maybe God meant something a little bit more deep than is obvious from this particular
verse. So you go to great scholars and spiritual leaders who can tell you what God might have
intended with this verse. That's scriptural interpretation. And we have that in all three
of our monotheistic traditions. We have a tremendous amount of weight placed on how we
interpret Scripture. That's the reception history. How do we understand? What did God
really mean when God said X? And that's exactly what we're poised with here today.
If God is an eternally relevant essence, and Scripture is eternally relevant,
it must speak to us for what we're doing today. So we need to understand what was happening
in 7th century Arabia in terms of what it means today. And so people have the right to interpret
that material and say it means be militant or it means don't be militant. So you're kind of stuck
with that. And you don't really know, you can't know, that people can be very convincing in their
interpretation. And then you can decide you're going to follow them. And that's the way it works.
If I may voice just my concerns as somebody who's not a religious person anymore,
this is my struggle. I have my own jihad. And I'm using the term for myself here.
This is a serious struggle that I have on trying to be as fair, polite, and continue
conversations with those who are faithful to their literature and pointing out what I would say are,
I'm going to use a kind term. And behind this term, there's a lot of meaning, dated ideas. And
when I say dated, I mean, for our context, I would say ugly and very, very not good practices,
slavery, you know, war, things that we still do sometimes today. And in some parts of the world,
it's still practiced. And I ask like, this is why I wonder if it's fundamentally the text,
or if it's the narrative spun. And how do we win this ideological war, whatever the position is,
when we're dealing with a fundamental literature that says what it says, or gives the impression
that when you're reading it, like, for example, if I'm reading the Hebrew Bible,
a lot of Christians today will say slavery doesn't mean slavery, which what it means today.
No, it's almost like an ancient job. And in some respects, there isn't ancient servitude. But what
do we do about chattel slavery? What do we do about sex slavery? What do we do about these are bad
things, we would say today, we don't practice those things, and we shouldn't. And can we do that with
the Quran? Can we do that with other literature? Can Muslims actually say, Hey, this is bad? And
I know some Muslims do, but are they, I'm asking you maybe as a scholar who might know this,
are the voices that say this is bad rising? Are we growing a number that say, Hey, slavery,
no matter what is bad, and it shouldn't be practiced? You get my my my jihad, right?
Oh, we, the Muslim world is confronted with the same problems that the Christian and the Jewish
world are confronted with, with how we interpret our texts. And there are people that have different
sensibilities and different understandings of how these things work. There's some people that
feel very comfortable with slavery and they understand it and they can justify it. But a
lot of people in the Muslim world don't feel comfortable with it. And assumptions about slavery
are kind of being reexamined. The good news is that there are so much interpretive tradition
in Islam, as well as in Judaism Christianity, that one can often find trends or threads that
can be amplified, that I have some authority and can, can push a new position. But remember that
goes all ways, it goes both ways, you know, it goes in the way you want it to go and it goes in the
way you don't want it to go. Because, because we're constantly being influenced by our environment
and our social, economic and political situation. And the those things influence the way we read
because remember that we're always reading ourselves into the texts that we're reading.
So yeah, so you're never going to resolve the issue. Derek, it's going to be conflict. We're
not going to solve the problem. I mean, that's why we wait for the Messiah, right? Some Messiah,
a Jewish Messiah, a Christian Messiah, a Muslim Messiah, there are messianic figures that we say
we're going to hang in there and eventually there's going to be redemption of some sort.
But we have to hang in there. We have to do the best we can while we can.
I guess, because I'm not waiting for a Messiah, I'm trying to be in some way participant in that
process of trying to make things better and trying to understand. I think that's also another
problem is like understanding. We can just cast people off with their beliefs and not try to
understand them. There's a really well-known kind of story, like a proverb kind of story about the
rooster and the wise man. And if anybody who's ever read that, that's kind of what I'm trying to do.
The king's son goes insane and he literally is underneath the kitchen table, clucking like a
rooster. And they're thinking they're going to have to lock him up on an island and throw away
the key because they just know a way to get it in this wise man. It's like, give me an opportunity
to work with him. So the wise man literally gets undressed, becomes nude, gets under the
table with him and starts clucking like a rooster. I know it sounds funny and it is funny, but it's
like, and like the son who's insane is clucking with him. He starts getting familiar with him.
He starts to understand the guy that's the guy starting to understand him. The next day they
come out with food and or not food, but like clothing and he's like starts putting on clothes.
He goes, Hey roosters, the son's like roosters don't put on clothes. He's like, Hey, look,
I know I'm a rooster, but like there's no reason I should be cold on this floor. Anyway, like
one step at a time, he becomes human again. And the son becomes human at the end. Like he starts
to come out of it, snaps out of it. And it was like the more the
