Okay, serious note.
MythVision has a membership program on YouTube now.
Doing a little investigation really was my wonderful wife who helped me.
She said, you know what, there's a way to do membership programs.
Did you not know this?
Uh, yeah, no, I had no clue that you could do membership.
So now you, who watches MythVision Live, can have special things like this bronze plaque
next to your name during the live.
And I think this is the entry level.
So the longer you stick around as a member, whatever tier you choose, you get a new plaque.
And it keeps going.
And it keeps going the longer you're here.
And it keeps going.
And then finally, VIP exclusive for those who stuck around for two years as a member.
The four emojis, they don't let you add more until we have plenty of people join.
If you join at the 1999 tier or above, I'll make a custom emoji for you exclusively yours.
You can use it down in the live stream chats when you're commenting during our streams,
all of that fun stuff.
Here's one with a cry face that already have up.
You need to keep reading or I need to keep reading.
Here is we are MythVision, just repping the whole family.
And then last of all, game over.
That argument doesn't work.
Just stop.
Okay.
Stop what you're doing.
It ain't working.
Okay.
So we have four right now, but if people join and they want to participate, I will start
making more emojis.
And if you want a custom one, join 99 and above.
And if you go to the final, the last tier to join as a member, I will make sure I spend
private one-on-one conversation with you via video or some phone conversation or something
with you.
If you're interested in help support us that way.
However, we can all give wonderful thanks to my wonderful wife, Ryan, for discovering
this option.
Thank you, honey.
Check out the membership today, everybody.
I love you.
I appreciate you.
Thank you for participating in this program and everything you do.
Let's keep educating the world and bringing a light to the nations and never forget we
are MidVision.
