In a world growing ever more politically correct, I want to assess some of the issues that I notice
in Jordan Peterson's views of religion. Him and Sam Harris had a debate slash conversation.
We're going to be assessing part one. Jordan is well known for being a bright thinker
and always thinking of some psychologizing way of explaining religion and the phenomenon
of belief as well as speaks on political issues all the time. I'll do my best to avoid the politics
and focus on religion because I do see something happening in his own psychology
as we approach the topic of religion. As I set up front, we're not here to be politically correct.
I want to bring the facts up to you so you understand where I'm coming from.
My endeavor on this channel is to interview academics from all walks of life
but to get down to the data within these holy books.
Sam and Jordan hit it off in this discussion and Sam emphasized that they have a 10 percent
disagreement at the end of the day on their views. I had so much admiration for him in those
conversations. 90 percent of what he said in those conversations struck me as really wise
and useful and well-intentioned and 10 percent didn't. Sam was inspired by some of the podcasts
that were done by Jordan Peterson on Joe Rogan and other shows. So upfront, Jordan brings common
ground to the table where they agree morally, ethically speaking. Sam Harris is a moral realist
but where things get tricky is when religion hits the scene in this discussion. They both
recognize dogma coming in from both the secular and the religious world and what are those
commonalities between both the secular and the religious world? Sam Harris at the end of the
day say dogma and I think Jordan agrees but also Jordan brings up the fact that primates in their
bare nature fight against outgroups and they have a tribalism that's built inside where they will
rip another tribe apart if they come in their territory. I like this approach because it
allows us to try and understand the phenomena of humans and being we evolved from primates and are
a modern primate itself it's important that we keep this in mind as we understand whether secular
or religious why people are running with these dogmas. I imagine dogma is innate but have we
evolved to a point where we should be casting off these dogmas and does religion correlate to these
dogmas? It appears Sam Harris does think that religion plays a significant role. The only reason
why I would focus on religion in particular there is that religion is the only language game wherein
fundamentalism and dogmatism is not a pejorative concept. Dogma is a good word in specifically
within Catholicism and the notion that you must believe things on faith that is in the
absence of compelling evidence that would otherwise cause a rational person to believe it that
in a religious context is considered a feature not a bug elsewhere we recognize it to be a bug.
The other way to say that is the only thing that's wrong with religion is the dogmatism.
And where Jordan and Sam hit heads or clash is where they talk about the interpretation
of religion itself. Sam Harris brings up Islam as an example often in this talk because there are
extremes within the Islamic world that you don't quite see with Judaism or Christianity and the
problem is this most people who are adamant believers of the faith of Islam are going to
take this at face value when they believe in the teachings of their holy book.
In light of many terrorist attacks that have occurred in history and in recent history by those
who are radicals within the Islamic faith you can understand why someone like Sam Harris wants
to hit the nail on the head with this issue. He points out that in the Quran there are some
extreme examples of hate and tribalism against other groups of non-believers. I mean the very
term itself Islam means submission. And in many places in the surahs of the Quran you can find
examples of hate and I understand that there are those who are in the faith who would redefine this
or make this mean only in self-devince moments. However not all Muslims understand it this way
and in fact that's something that Sam and Jordan talk about. Sam points out that the Quran can't
be questioned in fact it's even deeper than a typical person would see the Bible.
Let me take Islam as a specific example. Islam, mainstream Islam, not just Al Qaeda style Islam,
just any Islam that really is worthy of the name in the year 2021 is founded on the claim
that the Quran is the literal word of God. And it is not to be said-
Yeah, the question is what does literal mean?
Yeah, but in the minds of most Muslims most of the time it means that these
stanzas were dictated to Muhammad in his cave by the Archangel Gabriel and he was commanded to
recite and he recited them. And what we have here in truth the claim that the Orthodox claim
is is even more stringent than the seemingly analogous fundamentalist Christian claim about the
Bible. It is this book and every jot and tittle of it is perfect and cannot be redefined or edited
changed in any way. And the understanding of that book is what Jordan tries to emphasize.
Well, what if the text is true but the believers who say that they understand it their understanding
is flawed. This gets into the psychology of Jordan where Jordan I feel is being an apologist for
these holy books. In many ways Jordan has an interpretation that I, as I've been studying
this for a long time with real academics who are experts in this field, don't draw these
interpretations. And when they do it's kind of odd like John Dominic Crossen when he interprets
Jesus through this social reformer perspective. And if Jesus was an apocalyptic prophet
he might have got the timing wrong but was his message wrong? See, Dale Allison Jr.
he's pointed out in our Jesus course that we have coming up the quest for the historical Jesus
that John Dominic Crossen will interpret biblical narratives and Jesus through the lens of his Irish
and Ireland politics. The issues he grew up with in his own experience. Is Jordan doing something
the same? It sounds and looks like this is what's happening. See, Jordan seems to be influenced by
people like Joseph Campbell, the hero with a thousand faces and the way that he interprets the
biblical stories through that lens is quite illuminating. Man, do I wish the world interpreted
these stories the way that Jordan is interpreting them? However, that isn't the case. And is Jordan
just this lonely voice out there trying to understand the biblical story in a way that
99.9% of its adherents don't follow or interpret it that way? Let me give you an example from the
Koran. Surah 3, 151. We shall cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve on non-Muslims.
Surah 95, then kill the disbelievers, non-Muslims, wherever you find them, capture them and besiege
them and lie and wait for them in each and every ambush. Now, a fundamentalist who might be reading
this text, who can't edit this, can't reinterpret this, might be reading this and saying, I need to
take this to heart. And in fact, we've seen this happen with extremist groups within Islam. And so
the fundamentalist claim is far worse. It's that not only is there an absolute reality, truth,
embedded in the book, but that their particular take on that absolute reality is the absolute
take on that book. So they conflate their own, they make an assumption of their own omniscience
and then pass that off onto God. Except in their defense, and I don't often rise to the defense
of fundamentalists. It's very easy to get there because some of the claims in the book are not
at all hard to parse. In fact, many of them can only be honestly interpreted one way. So to take
again an example that will be not inflammatory to you, but makes the point, it just says that the
remedy for theft in the Quran is to cut the hands off a thief. That is the unambiguous injunction.
It's not an allegory. So you have to indulge some kind of tortured
interpretive scheme to avoid the shocking fact that the creator of the universe thinks you
should live this way for all time. Now I am in no way saying all Muslims think this or believe this
way, but there is an inherent issue in the way that they're approaching the text. How do we
reinterpret all of these texts? It can be done and many of them do. It's purely in defense,
self-defense only. This is where this happens when the disbeliever attacks us. Historically,
I've asked this of Robert G. Hoyland and other experts in Islamic studies that actually there
was an offensive, an aggression on behalf of the Muslims early on in history. And of course,
sure, there were times of defense as well. But there wasn't always a time of defense,
even in the times of Muhammad himself. So when a believer who's following the perfect example for
all space and time and existence is setting a course on how one should behave, and he is that
set example, no wonder many extremists follow in his footsteps and reading the Quran do what the
Quran is saying at face value. It'd be amazing if Jordan Peterson's interpretations of biblical
stories as well as the Quran were impacting the world in such a manner that everybody saw this as
some internal struggle and psychoanalysis of one's own behavior and the world around them with tyranny
and such. But that's not what is being understood and applied on a daily basis. So why does Jordan
do this? Jordan, I believe, actually applies this to his own life and psychoanalyzes everything.
I couldn't help but think and I know this is going to sound bad. But if there is a pile of
chicken shit, he would find a way to make chicken salad. And this is the problem I saw
within the conversation between Sam Harris and Jordan Peterson. Sam goes, we could do anything.
We can interpret anything this way. Are there important psychological truths to be found in the
rubble? In this case, Jesus is going to come back and throw the sinners into a lake of fire.
And I've read, I've read to the end of the book, it's pretty scary at the end as well. I mean,
revelation is... Yeah, yeah, yeah, no kidding. So there's an idea that's expressed in that book,
is that it's something like things are always falling apart in a fundamental manner.
It's part, it's built into the structure. There's an apocalyptic element to human life.
We fail in small ways and we fail in catastrophic ways. And everything that we have, we lose and
we die. So there's, and societies come to an end. There's an apocalyptic element built into the
structure of human reality. And part of, part of what's revealed in that strange book at the end,
which is like a hallucinogenic nightmare in some sense, is that the hero is born at the darkest
point in the journey. And it's a psychological truth. And it's very, very apt because at the
darkest point, this is also why Christ is born near the darkest time of the year from a, from a,
from a metaphysical perspective. There's an idea there that when things fall apart, that's
the time for the birth of the hero. And the hero in Revelation is also the, the place where free,
where, where truthful speech most clearly manifests itself. Because in the Christian tradition,
Christ is identified with truthful speech. And so the notion there is that redemption
under apocalyptic conditions is to be found in the revelation of truthful speech,
which is something that you actually believe. Well, I believe in truthful speech. But I also
believe that you can play this kind of interpretive game with almost any text. This is this way of
thinking. But then you can do it with the world, Sam. And that, that wreaks havoc with your value
from facts argument. No, no, actually, I didn't hear what you just said. What was that? Well,
I said, you can, you can, you can make exactly the same objection with the world of facts,
is there's an infinite number of facts and there's an infinite number of potential
interpretations. And so tracking the pathway from the fact to a value is actually impossible.
And Jordan came off with honestly, to me, incoherent points to try and bring out. It sounds
almost like while he's against moral relativism, the words he's saying are so relative that you
can't make sense of them, you can reinterpret anything to mean anything with Jordan's methodology
and how he's approaching these ancient texts. The way he approaches the book of revelation,
the way he understands this as the hero who comes at the darkest hour, that Jesus being born in the
winter solstice, the darkest time of the year is when the hero comes and he comes to bring
light and salvation to the world that's full of darkness. Beautiful, wonderful interpretation.
And in fact, there may be some validity in having Jesus being born in December the 25th
in this kind of model. However, most Christians do not interpret it this way.
See, I've interviewed a scholar, Reuven Firestone, who's a Jew. He's a Jewish scholar and he understands
the war literature of the Hebrew Bible. And he expresses that, yes, these people were at war
with surrounding neighbors. We see this issue with the Canaanites and other people in the
biblical narrative. In fact, God so much says, kill every man, woman and child in some instances
with King Saul. King Saul is stripped of his kingly hood or being king of Israel because
he doesn't do that command that God gave him. Now, many apologists will back off or reinterpret,
and many Christians or Jews do not follow and practice what their texts say here,
as far as owning slaves or the treatment of women and such. But there is some of this in some places
of the world. In fact, when I went over to Israel, Jerusalem, Palestine, if you will, and saw them
at the welling wall, saw that there was a side where men are allowed to pray and they have all
sorts of room, much larger side. There's a small section on the right side of this wall where the
women get. And when their children are turning 13 and they have their bar mitzvah, the women have
to remain on that side and look and watch their kids while hanging out over the fence, viewing
them with their fathers celebrating the bar mitzvah. But they have to be separate because that's
how they have the rule there. In fact, conservative Orthodox Jews, I guarantee you enforce that kind
of rule that is in that area. My point is, patriarchy, misogyny, all of these kinds of ideas,
slavery, you name it, are still inherent and are even promoted within the biblical text.
See Joshua Bowen and Dr. Kip Davis's debate that's going to be coming on myth vision at some point,
but he's also written books about this very issue. Now, will the Muslims come along and
reinterpret or find a way to neglect practicing archaic things that are within their tradition?
I think many have, and I hope many more do. But when your text has it built into the text and
the understanding that most people in the religious world hold to is a dogma which promotes these violent
or horrific archaic ideas, what are we going to do? Try and defend these religions and act like
their initial interpretation with some internal struggle of psychology that each human has to
struggle with? I don't think we should be making chicken salad out of chicken shit. I think we
should just choose a whole different platform or whole different point of language in which we are
trying to understand how to better act in the world we live in. See, that's not how most people
believe it. And I hope that more people will see this and recognize even the dodginess that Jordan
Peterson takes when it comes to these kind of things. He loves to attack people who are politically
correct. But at the same time, when it comes to religion, he himself is taking a politically
correct position and not being consistent when it comes to these issues. Jordan highlights the
fact that primates act in these atrocities regardless of being secular or religious and
that humans carry these characteristics which therefore he thinks go deeper than religion
itself. And I actually agree with this assumption here that humans are obviously evolved primates
and there is this inherent natural instinct to be tribalistic and to pick sides. In fact,
I see politics as well as religion to go right into that avenue or that vein deeply. However,
what Sam Harris points out that I want to emphasize and I think is very important is
how religion, the dogma that comes with religion and how dogmas of course encouraged within it,
that's why there is dogmatism within religion. But the dogma is actually in the vein oftentimes
archaic and going closer to that primate instinct. So there's times of war, times of killing those
who aren't one of you or are part of your group. That's something that is still a carryover from
our earlier evolutionary process. And if we can evolve out of that, why do we need these dogmas
or religions to begin with? One more analysis is interpretation and the meaning of words
that I find quite dodgy or strange with Jordan and Sam. Sam points out as I've had academics on
all the time expressing the original languages and the cultural context and the meaning of
these texts and what they meant to the original audiences. Jordan Peterson is definitely taking
a 19th, 20th century, almost Jungian interpretational model and projecting it back onto the biblical
text, onto the Quran or whatever holy book it may be, trying to find deeper meaning within the
ink of these texts. But as Sam points out, it's not that simple. In fact, there are some texts
that are so clear and obvious on what they mean face value that you're actually doing an injustice
to the literature by trying to go and do this special psychologizing to this ancient literature.
See, Jordan tries to defend that it is the believers who have misunderstood the text
and that the text may not mean what they interpreted to mean. Therefore, they act
like they have the omniscience of meaning on these texts. And while that's important to understand
that how people perceive and interpret these texts can change over time, the real question is
sometimes the texts themselves are just so ugly and just so straightforward that in fact you look
like you're doing double standards and special pleading just to try and pretend the text means
something else to give it the benefit of the doubt rather than what the text actually means.
And Sam Harris, I think, is right in his approach of this text. Sure, he wishes that we could all
just get every human being on planet Earth to just reinterpret and psychologize these texts
to make them mean something of your own inner struggle. And this inner struggle is something
this journey is a human you're going through. However, the texts themselves, you're actually
doing damage by reinterpreting them the way that Jordan is doing this, rather than seeing it the
way they see it. And unless Jordan can change the whole world of believers in how they horrifically
interpret and apply some of this literature in their own lives, I just don't see any point in why
he would want to change it when academics are actually showing you their original intent and
purpose here on MythVision.
