Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to the Mormon history. Early Mormon history, Joseph Smith,
the Mormon church, and all the crazy things you don't even know yet, till you watch the
episodes, that are coming. And we have today, I'm bringing again, David Fitzgerald, author
of the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion and the Mormons. Go down in the description.
You guys can check out all of his books. He goes into, did Jesus even exist at all? In
fact, he believes there's evidence that he did not exist at all. And on and on and on. And we
have Bryce Blankenegle, is a Mormon history communicator. He hosts Naked Mormonism podcast,
among others, and serves on the John Whitmer Historical Association Article Awards Committee,
has given numerous presentations on all things Mormon history and theology.
You guys saw from the first episode, he has a lot of information. Like, I can't even begin
to tell you how much this guy knows about this. And I'm really ignorant. Like, I'm telling him
before the show, I'm like, you're going to have to tell me when we get there, because there's
some crazy stuff. And I'm depending on you guys. So thank you for joining me again for this show.
Great to be here.
Excited to be here. Thanks.
I'm excited to do this series because I've heard ideas of what they believed and very little things,
but I'm sure I'm going to be shocked by the time we get done with this episode alone on what we're
heading into. So with that, I think last time we were concluding on the notion that Joseph Smith
had a vision and and we heard he had magical upbringings and he came from the Burnover District.
And like, there's a lot of crazy cults that are growing and he's one of them. So if you would,
Bryce, just like last time, lead us off and you and David, just just take a tear into this historical
analysis. Yeah, for sure. So I also want to say it's been fun, you know, coordinating the content
of each of these episodes, because David and I are in the chat going back and forth,
like, how much time do we want to spend on this? Do we want to talk spaulding? How much do we
agree with it? And all of these other we could dive into. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then Derek's like,
what? So it's made a kind of a fun interaction because I get the sense that Derek, you are
probably at the place with familiarity of Mormon history that a lot of the viewers are as well,
which means David and I have the enviable task of teaching the dense field of Mormon history to
largely lay audience who are unfamiliar with it. And we're going to do our best to try and take the
characters that are involved in Mormon history, provide pictures of them, and place those characters
within the larger context of Mormon history, and get all of us kind of navigated through the New
York era into the Kirtland era, into the Missouri era, and finally into the Navu era when Joseph
Smith is finally assassinated. And put it from the legal problems era to the early church
era to the bigger legal problems era. To the treason era. The treason era. Yes, exactly.
Yeah. So where we kind of left off were the visions. And these are the visions that historians have
been bickering about since they were first coined, since the visions were first told about. And I
think it should be pointed out here that the early members didn't really talk much about Joseph's
first vision, but it's something that every Mormon knows by heart today. Yeah. That reveals
to me that it's propaganda, that it was all largely fabricated, or that it's basically
an event happened transpired in the mind of Joseph Smith. And then he basically
turned it into a divination, a divine version or a legendary version of the events. So
like he didn't get it right on the first try either, because we have several attempts that he's
made. That's true. But we still have records for, I should say. He had a number of these
visions that took place. The earliest one was dictated in 1830. And it's included as modern day
Doctrine and Covenants section 20. And it says essentially that this first elder being Joseph
Smith was ministered to by an angel. It doesn't name the angel. It says that the heavens were
opened that the Lord forgave him of his sins. It doesn't talk about beings descending down in a
light. It doesn't talk about any specifics. It's very basic. And it's just, it's a theophany. It's
a standard run of the mill theophany that lots of people were having at the time that people have
today and that people had for centuries and millennia before Joseph Smith. And if you like,
I can read a little snippet of that if you like. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Sorry, the official one that's
in Doctrine and Covenants, I should say. Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes. So in the Pearl of Great Price,
this Latter-day Saint Scripture, in a nutshell, it tells us that during this great revival in his
area in 1820, 14 year old Joseph was torn between the feuding Baptist Methodist and
Presbyterians and wondering how he could know which of them was the one true faith.
He decided he'd put the question to God. So on a beautiful clear morning in the early spring of
1820, he set off into the woods near his house and for the first time in his life, prayed aloud.
But before he could even ask God which church was the one true faith, he was immediately seized by
a malevolent power that overcame him, thick darkness gathered around him, and fearing for his life,
he desperately prayed for God to save him. And just when his doom seemed certain, a pillar of
light appeared overhead, brighter than the sun, and instantly found himself free from the terrible
entity and looked up to see two personages, indescribably glorious and bright, standing above
him. One pointed to him and said, this is my beloved son, hear him. And so Joseph immediately
asked Jesus which church was right, because it never occurred to him that it might all be wrong.
But the Lord answered that he should join none of them, for all of them were corrupt and their
creeds were an abomination to him. Or at least that's according to that version of the story.
Right. That story though, that wasn't written until 18 years after it happened,
and it wasn't published officially by the church until 22 years after it happened.
Which is mind blowing, because when you see a missionary at the door, that's what they start
out with. This is day one stuff for them. And yet for decades, nobody ever heard this story.
Nobody. That blows my mind.
Yeah, so that points obviously to legendary evolution. And there are multiple different
accounts of the first vision that we can compare from the original one that I talked about from
1830. That's very simple. It's included what it's described in two verses of a single revelation
that Joseph gave to what David just read that was published 22 years after the event supposedly
happened. We can compare the different versions and the different accounts and see the legendary
evolution. So what started as a theophany and ministering of an angel turned into a pantheon
of angels and then eventually the face of God appeared through the clouds and then finally
God and Jesus themselves descended in a pillar of light. So it just has these legendary adaptations.
And what's beautiful about Mormonism as compared to Christianity is that we actually have
his trial runs and his drafts and his corrections that he makes. So you can actually see the
evolution of it in handwriting in his own writing from start to finish. You know, it's
fascinating to see the differences. It's fascinating that you're saying all this because
this is what critical scholars and textual scholars are trying to do with the gospel
synoptics and John and that you can see the issues but it's not this blatant and this is obvious.
I think this is awesome. It's like almost like they didn't buy the angel idea. Oh, let's make
him brighter than the sun. You know, like, I mean, God was Nephi. No, no, this is great.
Yep. So these are the early visions that Joseph apparently has. And, you know,
I'm of the opinion that like, you know, we barely touched on this in the last episode of the series
that he did have, you know, an incredible experience that he was bound by this entity that
he did feel the darkness descending that he did feel his his tongue was bound and the other
details that are present in the various accounts are all very consistent with the
symptomology of or the toxicology of various psychedelics. And when you do have an experience
that's that's a psychedelic experience that is ineffable, that is by definition, you can't
describe it, you try and use words to describe what you experienced and what you saw. And I
think that Joseph had the experience in the woods, but didn't know exactly how to describe it to people.
And therefore, he he just fabricated them grander and grander and grander versions of it.
Um, as as competition for his authority became more and more present as his church continued to
expand. And we do see, go ahead. I was gonna say this was all new to me, because I've been studying
Mormons for a long time and had never heard this. But your paper on this that you wrote with other
scholars as well, really lays out very nicely the connections, not just with Joseph, but all these
early Mormon experiences. I was really fascinated by what you brought to the table on that.
Yeah, for sure. And we'll get more into that on the next episode, talking about Kirtland,
because that's known as the visionary era of early Mormonism. And we're not going to be able to
get into Kirtland much on this episode, because we still have to cover the swath of from when the
first visions happened all the way to the publication of the Book of Mormon. And there's so much,
there's so much. And it's, you know, surprisingly, what we're talking about right now, this is fun
stuff. It's really interesting. But this is also the most boring time of Mormon history.
This is the most boring and just run of the mill, crapshoot, boring history,
parts of Mormon history. Birth of a new church. Dime it doesn't.
Exactly. Because that happens all over. But very rarely do those churches go on to raise their own
armies and commit treason and it create entire counterfeit printing presses. And like, there's
so much more fun stuff later on in the series. That's right. So let's talk about those early,
post-witness period then, when he hasn't got a church yet, but he's starting to build up the
critical mass to create a church. Right. So we should all understand that a person doesn't just
start a church and become a charismatic leader the way that Joseph Smith was. Those are tendencies,
those are character traits that he was, you know, that are innately born with him as well as programmed
into him from his childhood. Right. For a family that's very big with limited resources, it's the
most boisterous, it's the loudest kid that gets the most attention. And Joseph, you know, cultivated
his charisma through doing that from his early childhood, in addition to kind of the innate
personality that he was born with. So the charismatic nature of Joseph Smith was formed
around the concept of treasure digging that we discussed last episode. And he gained a following
of people who basically saw him as the seer, as the revelator of their group. You know,
and each person had their individual jobs within the group. Some people were the diggers, other
people were the enchanters, some people were the exorters. And he happened to be the seer,
the revelator of the group. And that caused him to become very divisive as well, because he was
liked by the people who liked him, but the people who didn't like him or didn't believe that he had
the magic powers that he claimed, he, they tended to not like him very much, which eventually led
to him being hired by a guy named Josiah Stull. And I wish we had a picture of Josiah Stull,
but unfortunately we don't. He was an early member of the church, but he was attached to Joseph Smith
in treasure digging before the church even started. So Josiah Stull hears about this guy,
Joseph Smith, who has the ability to locate lost treasure. And Josiah Stull hires Joseph Smith,
as well as a number of other treasure diggers within, you know, Joe's kind of like posse
of treasure diggers. Are there enemies of him at this time that are like, not like right off the
bat or? Well, there's a lot of people who just think he's that punk kid from down the road who
always is telling tall tales about the Indians and things like that. So he's, and also in his
treasure digging posse, one of his roles is that he's the seer, which meant, according to him,
that God said, if he touches a spade and does any actual manual labor, he'll lose his power. So
I think there are some other people who look to scant at that, rightly so.
Absolutely. Yeah. And one thing that we need to tease out of this as well is
Joe's ability to identify a wealthy person and mark them. And Josiah Stull was one of these
people who were wealthy, more dollars and cents, credulous, very given over to the ideas of visionaries
and mystical beliefs and spirits and these magical tendencies that Joseph Smith was
obviously very familiar with. So Josiah Stull was one of these wealthy people who was hired by
Joseph Smith or who hired Joseph Smith to help locate an old Spanish silver mine on the Susquey
Hanna River. And they got so close. They got so close. So close. Every time. Yep. And it's not
like Josiah Stull will thought, Hey, Joseph Smith, he's, you know, he's able to see buried treasure.
I should ask him if he knows about any and I can hire him. It was a matter of Joseph would shop
around various people who would be more credulous. And he would tell them all sorts of fantastical
tales like there's a box of watches buried in the hill. There's I saw a bar of gold that was larger
than my leg. I just need somebody to help me dig it out. He would tell people these things.
And that would basically select his marks for him. It was a way for him to identify who would
believe him and then who would hire him and then he would continue the con once and that would,
you know, whittle down the possible group of people who would actually believe him. And
Josiah Stull was one of those people who believed him. So they headed to a little village called
Harmony, Pennsylvania. And this is where Josiah Stull and Joseph Smith and the treasure diggers,
there's about a dozen of them at this time, stayed at the home of Isaac Hale. Isaac Hale had a daughter.
Let me find her. There she is. Pretty dark haired, dark eyed daughter. That's right. This is our
blushing bride. Emma Hale, not Smith yet, but this is Emma Hale. And this is a picture that was taken
in 1844 with her new son, David Hiram. This was the year that Joseph Smith died. This was the
the orphan that he left behind with his wife, Emma. This is the look of her after being married to
Joseph Smith through all those things we're going to be telling you about episode after episode.
That's correct. I got a picture of young Emma that might be more suitable for this point in the
story, but yeah. Certainly. And there are a few. So I chose that one because it's an actual picture
of her. It's a dick arrow type, whereas the earlier picture of her is from the 1830s. And it's
actually just a painted portrait of her. So, but I chose that because I feel like it really captures
the deadness in her eyes. You can see she's been through some stuff. Yes, exactly. And so that's,
you know, after that was when she was in the state of mourning and a new widowed mother, right?
With, you know, five kids and her husband had just died. And you see just how much of her life
has been drained from her in that picture. But when she and Joseph met, you know, she was 22,
I believe. He was 20. And they were both young kids looking for mates. And it just so happened
that Emma caught Joseph's eye and he began courting her while they were doing this treasure digging.
So notably as well, Emma's mother and father actually ran an inn, a tavern, basically,
where people would stay as they were traveling through the area. And Harmony was a very small
village. It was still burgeoning. So there were only a few buildings in the area. So that they
kind of had the house in the village where more travelers would stay. So this is where Joseph and
Emma met. And they, it reads to me as if Emma wasn't terribly interested in Joseph, but he was
really interested in her. Because she testified, not testified, but she told her son on her deathbed
that essentially in paraphrasing that being of marriage age and no better candidate available,
I chose to be married to your father. I praise indeed. That's right. She was in love, so in love.
Poor Emma. Poor Emma. I gotta find something real quick. And she had to find out
that she had to be next to millions of other goddesses on a planet where Joseph's gonna end
up rolling. Am I skipping ahead too fast? Yeah, I am. I'm sorry. Yeah, let's talk about that.
Needless to say, we'll all be really sympathetic towards Emma a few episodes out from here. That's
right. I have enormous wills of sympathy for her. Yeah. Well, Emma's really complicated. So notably,
the practice of treasure digging was not well regarded by high society folk and by, you know,
by just most people. And Isaac Hale, Emma's dad hated Joseph, hated him, just hated him.
And Emma knew that. And therefore, when they ended up getting married,
the only time that they could make it work was while Isaac was at church,
Joe came and basically kidnapped Emma and they eloped because he could not get Isaac's blessing
to marry Isaac's daughter. So they were forced to elope through it. But during this treasure dig,
this is in 1826, when they first met, they were married in January, I believe January 1827.
When they first met in 1826, and Josiah Stowell was hiring Joseph Smith, Stowell was totally in.
He totally believed Joseph Smith had the ability to see stuff. His, I believe, his nephew, Peter,
No, it starts with a B, Peter, something. Man, see, that's a problem when you try and remember
stuff off the top of your head. Anyway, family friend. Stowell's nephew saw that Joseph Smith
was built in his, his uncle, a lot of money. And he filed a legal complaint against Joseph Smith,
which got Joe arrested and brought to court in 1826. And this is an important and a well known
document and something that we kind of barely touched on last episode, I believe. I'm not sure
if that was our first recording or if that made it into the, it's worth, it's worth revisiting.
But yeah, so essentially what happened is Joe was brought up on the stand to testify about his
abilities to actually see things in the stone. And his father was also called to testify on
his behalf. And Josiah Stowell, the guy who Joe had marked, testified on Joseph Smith's behalf,
which is unreservedly. Oh, no, he's not conning me. Yes, exactly. And an amazing exchange comes out
of this, this court transcript, because we do have a person who was there and writing down what
was going on named William Purple. And he basically recount or recorded what was going on during this
trial. And he reveals an exchange between the prosecutor and Josiah Stowell, where they were
looking for buried treasure. And Stowell believed, because Joseph Smith had told them that they
would find a treasure with a feather next to it. So they were digging and digging and digging,
and they couldn't find the treasure. But as they were digging, they found the feather. And Stowell
believed that this was evidence that Joe could actually see what he claimed that he saw in his
hat because they found the feather, but the treasure itself had sank. Yeah, you can't make that up.
Yeah, there's no way. How do you get a feather? That's a miracle. Let me ask you this. So what
does the church say about this whole treasure thing? I mean, do they have like this? Yeah,
I'd like to know what they think. For the longest time, they denied this ever happened at all. Oh,
no. How could it be that during the time when he was preparing himself to receive the gospel,
that he'd be involved as a con artist? No, it never happened. Then when in the 70s, when the
transcript was discovered, they said, oh, well, yeah, but Oliver Cowdery said that he was totally
acquitted honorably, which is also a lie. And it's like, well, which is it? Did it not happen? Or
did it happen in Oliver Cowdery said he was acquitted honorably? And in fact, he wasn't
acquitted honorably. He was found guilty. And later trials were thrown out for statute limitation
reasons, but not any kind of honorable dismissal whatsoever. The opposite is true. There are
actually a few different possible outcomes. So Cowdery says that he was honorably acquitted.
William Purples said that he was basically convicted, but he was on account of his inability to
pay for or to be to pay for the fine. He was given leg bail, which is basically like slap on
the wrist, say, All right, this is this is your first time in court. You know, just don't do it
again, just be a good good boy and, you know, make something good of your life. And he was he just,
you know, basically fled. So there are different versions of what happens. And, you know,
let's go back. Yeah, well, I don't tend to believe much of what Oliver Cowdery says,
because, you know, and we'll get more into Oliver Cowdery and why I make that claim.
So essentially, this 1826 trial happens, it's a massive embarrassment to Joseph Smith.
And I'll also point out for Mormons, they know the first vision story that happened in 1820,
when Joseph was just a young 14 years old. They know about the 1823 vision when Moroni appeared
to him and Joseph trying to acquire the plates and not being able to when the toad jumped out
struck him. They don't know about the toad, but they know that he wasn't able to acquire the plates.
They know that he tried to acquire the plates every year on the autumnal equinox until 1827.
And then he gets the plates in 1827. Everything else that happens during that time frame is a
black hole for Mormons. They're not taught about anything that we're discussing here, right. And
for obvious reasons, because Joseph was a miscreant, right. He was a pariah among polite society.
And the 1826 transcript reveals this. And that gained him a reputation largely that he could not
be trusted by anybody. And Isaac Hale, who's Emma's dad, very much understood that that Joseph could
not be trusted, right. So let me ask you this, Bryce. We have at this time, a man who's receiving
visions from God Almighty, the honorable, loyal, if you will, sinless, so to speak man, this is
noble, holy man, who simultaneously in court for committing unnoble crimes, you know, abusing his
these people who are gullible to his charismatic personality at the same time.
I think I'm gonna become a Mormon.
So I want to, I want to describe kind of what happened here. So Joseph and Emma meet in 1826.
Joe is convicted in this 1826 trial. Then Joseph continues to court Emma, and he makes various
trips because it's about 200 miles from where he's living in Manchester, Palmyra area, to Harmony,
Pennsylvania. So he has to have people take him back and forth, because he doesn't want to walk
that he'd much rather ride it in a carriage or, you know, on a horse. But they don't have a horse,
the Smith family are too poor to own a horse and to be able to board it. So he gets people like
Peter Ingersoll to take him back and forth, to and from the Hales in Harmony, Pennsylvania, and
his, the Smith home in Manchester, Palmyra. So one of these guys, Peter Ingersoll, he basically,
Joe and Emma Elope, and they go to the Smith home, and they're two newlyweds living in the Smith
home with 10 other kids, or sorry, nine other, it would actually be eight other kids at this time,
because Alvin Smith, the eldest Smith son had died at this point. That happened in 1824. So
they're newlyweds living in this, this home with eight other kids, as well as Joe's senior and Lucy
Max Smith. And they don't have much privacy because it's a very tiny home, right? And like,
how people get their own beds now was never a thing that that was never ever a thing in the
19th century. It was usually three to five kids per bed. And the rooms were they might have the
boys room and then the girls room, or just the kids room where all of the kids slept and you had
10 kids, you had three beds, and they all just kind of slept wherever they possibly could.
So I'm going to check with one big room for everything that too. Hold on. Is that how it's
supposed to be in the 1800s? Because that's what I do. No, I'm just like eight hours of sleep per
night of comfortable sleep. Like that's it's such a nice modern innovation that I think people really
take for granted. Because you know, when you're sitting when you're sleeping five kids on a bed
that's a twin mattress, basically, that's ropes with some with a straw mattress, right? Like,
you're not getting good sleep. You're you're mashed together. You got feet in your face.
Nobody's bathing. It's smelly. It's just we live in a charmed time. That's what I'm saying.
So anyway, Emma hated it there. She absolutely hated it in the Smith home. And she didn't
didn't. But she did become good friends with Lucy at this time. So Lucy and Emma ended up having a
very strong and rich relationship their entire lives. And and this is where they begin cultivating
this relationship. This is the first, you know, daughter-in-law that that one of her sons brings
home to live in the Smith home with them. And she takes a liking to Emma, Lucy does,
and Emma back, you know, reciprocates. So they decide that they want to go pick up some of Emma's
furniture as well as her clothes, because they eloped, they got the hell out of there. And they
eloped and then went to Manchester, New York. And, you know, she didn't have much of her own
possessions. So Peter Ingersoll, Joseph asked Peter Ingersoll to take him down to Harmony
to go pick up Emma's stuff. And this is in 1827, right? This is when Joseph is supposed to have
acquired the plates. And when their newlyweds and Isaac Hale hasn't even heard from his daughter,
he just knows that they eloped. And that's it. He doesn't know much of the situation,
but he knows that Joseph Smith is a dick. So Peter Ingersoll witnessed what happened when
Joe went to pick up Emma's stuff in Harmony. Joe walked into the house and Isaac Hale
is sitting there waiting to have this conversation with his new son-in-law, whom he doesn't like.
And this is how Peter Ingersoll recounts it. In the month of August 1827, I was hired by Joseph
Smith Jr. to go to Pennsylvania to move his wife's household furniture up to Manchester,
where his wife then was. When we arrived at Mr. Hale's in Harmony, from which place he had taken
his wife, a scene presented itself truly affecting. His father-in-law, Mr. Hale, addressed Joseph in
a flood of tears. You have stolen my daughter and married her. I had much rather have followed her to
her grave. You spend your time digging for money, pretend to see in a stone, and thus try to deceive
people. This is not a great reception, not a great first meeting with your new father-in-law.
Joseph wept and acknowledged he could not see in a stone now,
nor never could, and that his former pretensions in that respect were all false.
And that's worth putting a pin in right there. Freely confesses it.
And beyond that, he goes a step further, because Isaac Hale doesn't like Joseph,
but obviously they're married. That's his son-in-law. Now he just has to deal with the decisions that
his daughter made and has to try and make peace with this kid that he hates, right?
So then he says, he, Joseph, then promised to give up his old habits of digging for money and
looking into stones. Mr. Hale told Joseph if he would move to Pennsylvania and work for a living,
he would assist him in getting into business. Joseph acceded to this proposition. I then returned
with Joseph and his wife to Manchester. The end and they lived happily ever after. Happily ever after.
And like this is the quintessential crossroads, right? Yeah. Joseph has an option put in front
of him. He can choose to go into business. His father-in-law is offering him a possibility of
going into the farming business. He's offering him a farm if he'll just work for an honest living.
And Joseph says, okay, all of the treasure digging, all of the see your stone business,
it was all fake. I made it all up. I'm never going to do it again if you just help me get
into business. Joseph agrees. And at that point, Joseph and Emma move to harmony.
It doesn't go so well. I was waiting for something here. You guys, you know, I don't know this
history. So like for our viewers watching, I'm truly firsthand learning this is the stuff I've
never heard. And so I keep asking myself in my head, why, where is this? What the church must
completely turn a blind eye and say, this is all fabricated. It's all propaganda to try and hurt
the church. This can't be true. And yet we have documents right here, evidence showing that at
least someone says this is what was said. That's enough to take into account as evidence, in my
opinion. If all you have is textual evidence back and forth of different documents, and you have
legal documents to support some of this, man, this puts a huge damper, I'm sure they must,
they must have some excuse for some of this. It's not quite that simplistic. So how the church
deals with this is they don't, they don't teach this stuff. And most people when they learn this
stuff, leave the church. And when they leave the church, because of this information, they're
taught their entire lives that this is quote unquote, anti Mormon literature, which is, which
is cult mind control. That's that's what it is, because Mormonism is absolutely a cult. And I'll
be happy to defend that to anyone who who says otherwise. When a person comes into contact
with this, this information, it forces them to think about a lot of things, to think about the
church and its truth claims, to think about what do they really believe, to think about what,
what is the nature of this God that I've been taught about my entire life and what does this
actually mean. And very few people survive learning this stuff, very few people's faith
survives learning about this stuff. And Mormonism is filled with exit points that are just built in
where it's like, if you learn this, and take it in, it's going to be very hard for you to remain
a Mormon. Yes, as we'll see through the course of this series. So, so not things don't go well.
We're back at the story. Things don't go well. How can he say, yes, I'll take you up on this
business offer. And yet they don't go well, what happens? So Joseph says, I'll get into farming
business. But we know that Joseph is a lazy miscreant. He, he's a lazy guy. Peter Ingersoll
at a later time, like Peter Ingersoll, he's a friend of the Smith family. He's a neighbor,
he's a good friend of all of the Smiths. He's helping Joseph Smith to move furniture back
and forth and to move him and Emma and all their stuff down to Harmony, Pennsylvania. Peter Ingersoll
is a good guy. Later in 1880s, he was giving it an interview and he's like, you say in that book
that Joseph Smith is a good guy, but I'll tell you he was a lazy dog. He was the laziest of all of
them. And like, he was a friend of the Smiths, right? And the people who don't like the Smiths
and really hate Joseph Smith, the accusations are plentiful of Joseph being indolent and a
deceiver and a juggler and just all of these horrible accusations that he's just the laziest guy.
And I tend to believe him because the weight of evidence just falls so heavily on that.
And there's no evidence that exonerates Joseph. There's no evidence that says he was a good
worker. All of it says he was a lazy guy, right? So Joseph agrees with his father-in-law, I'll
go into farming, but he doesn't. Hey, he doesn't do it. No, he does not. So he comes up or he
resurrects the old gold Bible story. And this is a story that he had told a few times to a few people
and he had done on treasure digs and he told them that he's, you know, going to acquire these
gold plates. He didn't have any details or specifics of what they are, but he eventually,
when he is pushed to actually work for a living, he resurrects the idea of the gold Bible. And yeah,
go ahead. Point about the gold Bible, he appears to have not been the person who invented the idea
of a gold Bible. It seemed like that was one of those folklore things that was floating around,
like somewhere in Canada, somebody had found a gold Bible. Any number of kind of new world
folklore going around like that, including the idea of a gold Bible.
Well, and this taps into the white Christian supremacy idea of the time, right? Because,
you know, we talked about this last episode, right, like all of these civilizations and all
these ruins and everything that the European settlers were encountering, it couldn't possibly
be the Native Americans who built all these things, right? It must have been an enlightened
Christian people. So the concept, white and they absolutely white. I mean, that's just a given,
right? But yes, yeah. Well, they're completed Jews, right? They're Christians. So that concept
pervaded the culture and the idea of finding a record of the Christians in America was a common
and a very elusive idea because they were looking around for histories, but very, very
few Native American groups had any form of written language. Most of their languages were oral,
as were all of their histories and traditions, right? So the European settlers encountering
these people with no linguistic commonalities, no shared belief systems, none of these things
that they can comprehend because it's a culture completely foreign to them.
They do everything they can to impose their own conception of history, culture, religion, God,
on these people they're encountering. Including biblical history and trying to tie it all in
and yes, make that connection. We are definitely getting ahead of ourselves now because we
let's save that for that episode because that's going to be super fun. Yeah. And this also points
to the fascination that Joseph Smith had with the Native Americans and we'll be discussing all of
these elements as well as the Book of Mormon belief and theology of Mormonism kind of peppered in
throughout this series as we go. But obviously, Joseph was fascinated by the Native Americans.
He believed that he could use them to overthrow the government and instill his Mormon empire
because he was writing their history that he was giving to them, that they were actually Christians
who had basically apostatized. So, Joseph moves in with the Hales and Emma and they moved back
to Harmony, Pennsylvania and he resurrects this concept of the Gold Bible. And this is where an
old friend, Martin Harris from New York, comes to pay them a visit because Martin Harris was
another wealthy guy from Palmyra that Joseph had marked. And Martin Harris was...
He's just a fun guy, right? He's fun for many reasons, not least of which is the fact that he
looks absolutely the part of somebody who you would believe to be given over to mystical ideas.
But this guy, he talked about walking through the woods and talking with Jesus in the form of
a deer and he believed in spooks and spirits and gnomes and all kinds of western and esoteric
traditions. This is a guy, but he was also a really wealthy business owner and in a farmer.
He was a very, very well off and Joseph recognized that. So, when Joseph first met Martin Harris,
Joseph knew he knows a mark. He can absolutely identify a mark from a mile away. He knows this
guy, Martin Harris, is a guy who's very credulous but also very wealthy. So, Joe walks up to Martin
Harris and says, God told me that the first honest man I meet would give me $50 today.
Just wrap your mind around that sentence, right? And we got to keep in mind $50 in 1820s was so much
worth more, so much more now. You know, we're talking more like, you know, $500. Yeah, close,
close to. Yeah, about $350, $400. Yeah. So, but like, think of the coercion that's built into
that statement, right? God told me, so I have a connection, I have a path to God that the first
honest man that I meet today would give me $50. So, either Martin Harris believes that Joseph
Smith has a connection to God and he gives Joseph the $50 because that he says, he believes that
he's an honest man or he doesn't believe any of it and he goes on his way, right? This is Joe's
Yankee wit. This is how he was able to self-select his marks. Martin Harris believed him. So, Martin
Harris had been told about the Gold Bible story and he appears in harmony and begins to help Joseph
Smith translate these gold plates. And Isaac Hale gave an affidavit in 1833 about how all of these
events kind of transpire and transpired and it's really fascinating to see how somebody who hates
Joseph Smith kind of viewed this whole situation. It's really pretty fun. Quote, he made a range,
let me find this, okay, soon after this, I was informed that they had brought a wonderful book
of plates down with them. I was shown a box in which it is said they were contained, which had to
all appearances been used as a glass box of the common window glass. I was allowed to feel the
weight of the box and they gave me to understand that the book of plates was then in the box,
into which, however, I was not allowed to look. Quick question. If these are meant to be a
golden book of golden plates, that thing is going to weigh about between 50 and 200. It's going to
be heavy, heavy, heavy. What they're describing does not suit what the story is.
Oh, no, it's true. You just can't look in it, though. Part of the miracle is that the 200 pounds
of gold is as light as a feather. This gold is directly from God. This is amazing.
The magic just keeps on coming. That's right. So, yeah, by all dimensions, because we have a
number of people who were witnesses to the plates, who felt them through the cloth, or who handled
them, or who lifted them, say they're about 50 to 60 pounds. But given the dimensions that they
describe, if it were actually gold, it'd be about 230 pounds. That makes these people pretty strong.
Isaac Hale is able to lift the box up. I would like to think that he, as a farmer and a hunter,
knows the difference between 50 pounds and 230 pounds. The version that Isaac Hale gives us,
that he was able to handle the plates, basically, is consistent with the way that everybody else
was able to see the plates. Yes. And when they say that they saw the plates and handled the plates,
it's important to point out what they were really saying under oath later about how they saw and
handled them. And under oath is questionable as well, because they're not under oath, and we don't
have the signatures of those witnesses. All we have is just the printed statement at the beginning
of the Book of Mormon. We don't have the actual document that they all signed. We don't have
their signatures on a piece of paper that says that we saw these things. Which would have been a
statement printed out by Joseph Smith, written out ahead of time by Joseph Smith anyway. That's
correct. But what we do have is them later confessing to people that, well, I didn't see it,
see it with my eyes. Physically, I saw it spiritually. This reminds me of the appearance
of 500 in the New Testament. There's a couple different ways you could deal with that passage,
but it just makes you think, hmm, yeah, and 500 saw him. And more. Yeah. And there's zombies walking
around too. Exactly. That's true. Yeah. So this version that Isaac gives us is consistent with
what everybody saw. Joseph had made a set of plates. There was a set of plates that he got
from somewhere that he made, that he kept in this wooden box. And it's called a glass box pod,
or I say that, I host the glass box podcast. That's one of my other projects. But it's called
a glass box because it was a wooden box that they would use to transport window glass, because
glass was super expensive as was carpet. So when you would move from one house to another house,
you would take your windows and your carpet with you. So this was a box for transporting glass.
So he, Isaac Hill is allowed to basically hold the plates and hold them inside of this box,
but he was never allowed to look in the box. He goes on to say, I inquired of Joseph, who was to
be the first who would be allowed to see the book of plates. He said it was a young child.
After this, I became dissatisfied and informed him that if there was anything in my house of
that description, which I could not be allowed to see, he must take it away. If he did not,
I was determined to see it. After that, the plates were said to be hid in the woods.
So this is important too, because we have the pictures that we saw like last episode of Joseph
Smith studiously, you know, reading his plates, you know, he's got on, sometimes he has on a
breastplate with the seer stones in it that are like glasses. For the Book of Mormon that we have,
Joseph was never even in the same room as the plates. Not only were they not on the table and
he was not reading them, they weren't even in the same room as him. It almost makes you wonder
why we needed gold plates at all since he could just use his magical walkie-talkie glasses to
write. Yeah, yeah, it's amazing. So then Isaac Hill continues about this time. Martin Harris
made his appearance on the stage and Smith began to interpret the characters or hierarchics,
which were said to be engraving upon the plates while Harris wrote down the interpretation.
So at this point, Joseph begins to translate the plates with Martin Harris and they're hidden in
the woods at this time, but Martin Harris is living with the Smiths in harmony and they're
writing this 116 pages and there is, this is a part of the story that people who watch South Park
actually know. It's just taken us this long to get here. So they're not even there and he's looking
at them. Yes. It's almost like they had a TV implanted inside of this hat, so to speak.
Or he was just making it all up. But let's be honest, what's more likely?
Yeah, it's so funny the layers of irony just keep dog piling up whenever you tell any aspect of
these stories. I think it comes down to that point I made in the first episode that we did on the
critics. So like, I'm certain someone came up and said, and just like you see in the New Testament,
for example, where brethren, these are not cleverly devised myths as some would espouse.
Why would you say that? Who said they were? So, you know, someone's probably going, well,
hold on. Didn't you see the plates? No, I told him I couldn't see him if he was going to let me
look at him because God would strike him dead. This is like the Ark of the Covenant all of a
sudden. Don't touch the damn thing if you do. Remember what happened to that one Israelite who
stopped him from falling? You know, like there's like all these, it's like what every sign of a
cult wants to do to prevent you from like getting to the roots and finding out what's really going
on. It's fascinating. It can't be testable. Can't be testable. Yep. And notably as well,
Martin Harris was given possession of the plates after the Book of Mormon was published
in a chest and he said that if he were to look in the chest, if he were to look at the plates,
he would be struck dead by God. And he, you know, let's talk about the 116 pages as well as Charles
Anton, right? Because this is a fun part of the story. Those are very fun. Yes, dude. Yeah.
Well, take us away, David. I want to hear from you, David. So we've been talking about Martin
Harris. Let's talk about his wife, Mrs. Harris. Yeah, Lucy. What she did, well, she wasn't buying
it for a minute either. For some reason, she thought her husband was being taken in by a con
artist. So once they had gotten to 116 pages, they decided to take a little break and he
took it with him to his wife to show him. See, we aren't wasting our money. Here's the 116 pages.
Well, stories, accounts differ from what happened next. But what certainly happened
is that those pages disappeared. And Lucy seems to have said, well, here's the thing. If he really
is translating, you know, from God, just translate those 116 pages again. No problem.
And some people think she hid it. Her family seems to indicate that she chucked it in the
fire at once as a work of the devil and burned it away. But whatever happened, no one ever saw
those 116 pages again. Now, when Martin Harris came back to tell Joseph Smith that, well, we can
just re-translate, right? Yeah, Joseph Smith wasn't having any of that and said, oh, no, no,
it could be in the devil's hands by now and corrupted. So God is going to punish us. We're
never going to have that story again. The book of Lehi and the book of Nephi, I forget which is
which, but we couldn't have that story. So we're going to have a new story. That's basically the
same. It's pretty different, but it's basically the same area. And that'll be the first book in the
Book of Mormon instead. So we're missing text. And again, that's the one we also did in the South Park
episode. So we're missing some story. It's so perfect. It's like, as they said, how can you
hear that and not think, oh, well, that does sound like a lot of bullshit when you put it that way.
But when you're taught this shit from a kid, you don't have the critical faculties to say, wait,
wait, how did Stan say it in South Park? Wait, Mormons know this story and they actually believe
it? Yeah, that proves it's true. No. Yeah. What's talking about Charles Anton? Because
we should back up a little bit. This was written not in ancient Hebrew or ancient Egyptian,
but in Reformed Egyptian hieroglyphics. Because we mentioned before that at this time,
Napoleon's men were in Egypt. They had found the Rosetta Stone. And little did Joseph Smith
know that we were on the verge of deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphics. So he said, well, no,
this is not written in Egyptian or in Hebrew, but in this new thing, Reformed hieroglyphics,
Reformed Egyptian, Reformed Egyptian. So he wrote down some of the characters in this Reformed
Egyptian alphabet so that Martin Harris could take it to this professor of antiquities and
ancient languages. Charles Anton, was that his name? Yeah, Charles Anton at Columbia.
And you can imagine how well that interview with. If I remember correctly, Charles Anton looked at
it and said, oh, what is this? These are like reversed Roman letters. And
nothing to do with Hebrew, Egypt, or any other alphabet he'd ever seen.
And basically threw him out. And yet somehow it's even more humorous than that because
initially Charles Anton thought that it was some of his friends who are playing a trick on him.
And thinking that they were like trying to get him because Charles Anton was a pretty young
scholar at this time. He was, you know, he was pretty early on in his studies and he was
steeped in the very cutting edge of Egyptology. So he thought that it was a joke they were playing
on him. But then as he, as Martin Harris began to tell Charles Anton the story of Joseph Smith
and how he became affiliated with the translation and everything, Charles Anton was like, oh,
you're being preyed upon by rogues. You're making a mistake. And then that's a direct quote,
preyed upon by rogues. Very clearly trying to to warn Martin Harris that you're being lied to.
This is a fraud. Don't do this. And whether he said this or not, I'm not sure. But the way
Joseph Smith says that Martin Harris said was that Martin Harris brought it up that this was
from a sealed book. And he said, well, I can't very well read a sealed book. Can I? And kicked him
out. And of course, when Martin Harris, according to Joseph Smith, told him that he said, do you
say that really? Well, let's look in the Bible. And there's a prophecy about he cannot about a sealed
book. Yeah, I'm sure it happened exactly like Joseph Smith tells us that. Yeah, exactly. But it
is notable that early Mormon missionaries were using Charles Anton and that prophecy, the Joseph
Smith version, they were using that as evidence that the gold plates were real, that they had
been exhibited to a learned man and that the learned man was confounded and that the world
would send the week to bring down the mighty or that the yeah, the and that Joseph Smith was the
weak one that was bringing down all of the the the ivory tower of the learning. Yes. Yes. Christians
love it when scientists are baffled by, you know, crazy bull should discover, proves Bible is true.
They love headlines like that. Exactly. So when Charles Anton caught word that the Mormon missionaries
were using his name as part of their claim that the Book of Mormon was true that these gold plates
were real, he sent a letter to a person who was writing an expose about Mormonism and it was like
immediately did away with everything he told his version of the story he told that you know,
I told Martin Harris that he's being prayed upon by Rogues. I told him exactly what's going on
and he gave his version of the story and he said, if any Mormons are using this, tell them to stop
using my name. I want to be rid of this story. Yeah. It's truly amazing, but that didn't come out
until four years after the church had started and enough Mormon missionaries had been using this for
years, using Charles Anton's name for years. And you know, the once the propaganda mill is
started on the lie like that, it's really hard to bring all that back. Yeah, absolutely. The barn
is doors open and the cow is out. That's right. And it's fascinating because as we're going to see,
Egyptology holds lots of problems for Mormonism. And Joseph Smith was putting smoking guns in his
mouth throughout his whole career. Yes. Well, and let's also say what you described with Western
scholars studying Egyptian and being on the verge of cracking Egyptian, it accompanied the public's
the lay people's fascination with Egyptian culture and created what scholars refer to or
historians refer to today as Egyptomania and just people's general fascination with Egyptian.
So Joseph claiming that this was reformed Egyptian has roots in that that that meme basically of
Egyptomania. And that's going to keep coming back and biting Joe in the ass in more and increasing
hilarious ways. Oh, yes, can't wait. Can't wait. Gentlemen, that's a great, I mean, we've touched
on some quite interesting stuff here in this episode. We're coming up to our close here. So
you guys want to end it off on something interesting so we can get into the next episode for next week.
And then he started a church.
We went a lot longer than I thought we would imagine that. I can't show that.
All right. Next, yeah, next week, we'll see what happens when this church of his takes off.
Yeah, well, you know what, let's let's use that as as the the let's put the pin in Martin Harris,
because after Martin Harris loses the 116 pages after he goes to Charles Anton,
Joe cuts him out of the translation process. He just cuts him out and doesn't go back to
Martin Harris until he needs to beg him for money to pay for the publication of the Book of Mormon.
So somebody had to fill the void of Joe's scribe because he's largely unable to write. He's he's
he's only minimally literate. So somebody's got to step into Martin Harris's shoes and take over
the scribing duties for the Book of Mormon. David, stay tuned. Next week, we'll see how
well that goes. I can't wait. For sure, guys, collect your questions and be on the lookout.
We don't know how many episodes we're certain to get through this, but we're not trying to make
this never ending. And so collect the questions. If we don't cover something by the end, you know,
we will try and have a special show where we go into questions, maybe a couple of special shows
dealing with that. Thank you gentlemen for joining me. Appreciate it. And thank you. It's always fun.
Don't forget we are MythVision.
