Thank you so much for tuning in. Dr. Richard Carrier, I appreciate your time and yeah,
I appreciate your wine. Yes, and thank you for being a Patreon, a Patreon member of my Patreon.
Patreon, however you want to pronounce it, I really appreciate that. We have a question from
St. Olaf, O-L-A-V. Josephus, or Josephus's writings about Jesus have been questioned.
There's a debate about how much later Christian scribes have changed his original text,
but even if these texts are close to the original ones, how reliable are his sources? He wrote this
after at least three of the Gospels were written. Is it possible that Josephus had the Gospels as
his sources and maybe oral tellings by contemporary Christians as well? If so, Josephus as an
independent source is weakened? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I'm convinced that there are no reference
to Christianity in Josephus. I think those were all added in various ways, and I've written a lot
on that. People can find that. I have an article on my blog, Why You Can't Quote Scholarship on
Josephus Before 2014, because by 2014 and after so much scholarship came out, including mine, but
not mine alone, came out really destroying any hope of believing that there's actual references
to Christianity in the original Josephus. But let's take the hypothetical and say that they are,
and in fact that they're exactly what Josephus wrote. And there's two passages, right? So there's
the Testimonium Flaviana, which is this kind of like ridiculous little vignette about the Jesus
story. It's really sloppily written compared to Josephus' style otherwise. But one thing that has
happened is Goldberg, and I cite him in the article I just referenced, has demonstrated that the
story that's in there, the components of it, actually are derived from the Emmaus narrative
in Luke. So quite certainly Josephus, if he wrote and written that, he almost certainly didn't. But
if he did write that, he did get it from the Emmaus narrative in Luke. And so he's using Luke as a
gospel, which is a quite late gospel really. Or he's using some version of that, like a quotation
of it somewhere else who knows. And then of course, that establishes that no, that is not a reliable
source. That is the complete absence of corroboration of the story, because Luke's story is made up,
and it's late, and it has no sources for itself. Could we imagine Josephus the way he is,
picking up a book written like that anonymously to an Otheophilus and saying, I'll take this
information. No, absolutely not. Especially since it gets key details wrong. So he would consider
it laughable, right? So no, he wouldn't use that as a source. Certainly not. And there's no evidence
that he used documents like that as sources. Now there are examples of things where Josephus
probably is making stuff up with himself, right? But when he's using sources, I think he's doing
what most historians do, following the standards of the time is that you would look for eyewitness
historians. You want to get the documents as close to the time as possible. And if you couldn't
find that, you wouldn't use it unless you had some sort of propagandistic reason to already agree with
it, right? So, and there's no reason Josephus would agree with the TF. The other passage,
though, is where he mentions a certain James gets stoned to death, who's the brother of
the Jesus called Christ, right? I'm fairly certain the part called Christ was added by
Christians later, probably accidentally, in fact. But again, that's people who know my work know
that I published under peer review on this and why I think that's not the case, but
why he didn't write those two, those two words. But if he did, well, now we don't really know
where he's getting this information, because it doesn't come from the Gospels. It doesn't come
from Acts, even because Acts doesn't even have this information in it. We don't know where he's
getting the information. We also don't know what he thinks brother of Jesus means, because we know
all baptized Christians are brothers of Jesus, right? They're all adopted by God. And so they're
all the brethren of the firstborn brother, son of God, right? So, so if he was just heard a story
that this James was called a brother of Christ, you know, brother of Jesus called Christ, then he
would just record that as as being actual biological brotherhood, not knowing that it's
actually a fictive cult term. It doesn't really refer to anything. Or of course, it could actually
mean that it's an actual biological brother of Jesus, the Christ who was called the Christ. So,
any of these things are possible. But there's no way to really figure out what his source would be
for this information or why he would even include it. This is the biggest problem with fat passages.
There's no reason for him to add that information in the narrative of his story. And if there was a
reason, he would have told us what it was, right? Because that's the normal discourse style of Josephus,
which is one of many reasons why we don't think Josephus wrote those words. But if he did, we
really don't know what his source is, and we can't really judge its reliability.
So, Saint Olaf said, and one of the things I think is important to pick apart, he wrote this
after at least three of the Gospels were written. From assuming Luke, right? Yeah.
Now, my question is, I mean, we can go with consensus because nobody knows when exactly
anything was actually written when it comes to the gospel material, right? We make guesses. In fact,
they go, 75, 85. But the majority position is that Josephus wrote before Luke, and Luke is using
Josephus. That's what you find in most of the mainstream, most recent commentaries and things
like that. But under the conceit, under the assumption that Josephus is using sources,
then it's the other way around where he's using Luke rather than Luke using him.
That's not what the evidence suggests. But if we assume that's the case, then yes,
he would have written after three Gospels were written. So, one more thing on Josephus,
he wanted to get into like independent with us, be an independent witness, blah, blah, blah. There's
no way to know. Yeah. But at the end of the day, I wouldn't even say he'd be independent, even if
he did write. Right. You can't establish. You would have heard learn this from someone. Yeah,
it's absolutely important to establish that you cannot establish it's an independent source. So,
he's unusable. It's really frustrating to run into that where you have this source, you can't
establish that they're independent. And so, they're just not usable as evidence, right? They can't
increase the probability of any proposition. That's absolutely true, even if he wrote exactly
everything that we have. And now, one more thing on this with Josephus. As we mentioned before,
if we take the gist of the areas where Josephus is mentioning Jesus, wouldn't this paint Jesus
like the other figures mentioned in Acts, where they're trying to act like, well, you know,
Theatus, you know, the Samaritan, you know, all these other figures, wouldn't have Jesus been,
would have been a nut job like one of them? So, the weird thing is, is conspicuously,
the passage, the testimonial Flavianum, doesn't do that, right? So, the thing that Josephus does
with all those guys, is he specifically says something about them that has them pretending to
be, pretending or claiming to be the new Joshua. So, they're all going to do something that Joshua
did, the famous Joshua who founded Israel originally. So, they're going to be the new
Joshua who reconquers Israel, right? So, it's going to be, they're going to part a river or
topple walls magically or whatever. So, there's, every single one of those does something that
Joshua did. And, of course, they're also making messianic claims. And so, he talks about how
they're making these messianic claims. And so, they're all Jesus Christ, it's really, right?
Because Jesus is Joshua. And so, and this is a pattern that Josephus repeats with all of these
stories. This pattern is completely absent in the testimony of Flavianum. So, he conspicuously
doesn't associate Jesus with those other guys. Which is, I think, evidence that he didn't write
the testimony of Flavianum, because absolutely he totally would have done this. It would have been
perfect. It would have been gold for him to have done that, but he didn't actually. So,
but in terms of the content of the testimony of Flavianum, even if you took it as what he wrote,
it doesn't tell you anything other than what people much later believed about him. It doesn't
really, he doesn't refer to any documents that confirm any part of the story, right? So, it doesn't
really help with anything, right? It doesn't help establish anything. Yeah, I was just thinking,
like, in the area it's inserted, of course, it doesn't corroborate what I'm saying about the
other figures, and then comparing Jesus to it. But if there was an insertion there that was
completely whitewashed and rewritten, right? Yeah, if there was a version of it that agreed
with the way he depicted those other messianic figures, right? The only thing is, is if that
were the case, no one would have meddled with it, like the Christians would have kept it. That's
right, because it would have been even more vindicating than the little piece that we have
in there now. So, and yeah, so the idea that there was some other, like, let's say, a hostile
hit piece about Jesus, I don't know what it could possibly have said that would indicate that compared
to what he says about the other guys. But even if there was, like, there's no evidence that there
was, right? Like, that's just pure speculation. And that's what you find in scholarship when they
try to rewrite it. When they do try to rewrite it and say, well, maybe he wrote this, it's actually
less like Josephine Discourse style than the testimony flaw that he on him is. And that is
already not even remotely Josephine Discourse style. So, the reconstructions are even less
probable than the testimony of itself. And that's kind of one of the funny aspects of
the scholars who want to try and rescue something here. There is nothing rescuable
in this place of the passage, yeah. Appreciate it. Thank you. And I really appreciate you,
Saint Olaf. I appreciate you supporting MythVision's Patreon and to everybody else who does, go down,
join the Patreon. Who knows when the next time I can ask your questions to the academics.
