If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, there are different
tiers, as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much.
Don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
Wee!
Ah!
MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, your host, Derek Cleary.
Welcome back.
You're going to want to stay tuned for the next 12 episodes, at least 12.
We're not saying we're going to be as funny as South Park when it comes to this, but I
would like to come close.
In these episodes, you're going to hear the background, the details of this man named
Joseph Smith and the Mormon Church.
David Fitzgerald, author of The Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion and the
Mormons and many other books, of course.
Go down in the description.
Make sure you guys show them some love.
All the links are down there.
Become a patron.
You know, throw them your change.
Help out, because this is what they do.
And Bryce Blankenagel, just hope I said that right, is a Mormon.
Yeah, you got it.
Nice to know.
Is a Mormon history communicator.
He hosts Naked Mormonism podcast, among others, and serves on the John Whitmer historical
association article awards committee and has given numerous presentations on all things
Mormon history.
And with that being said, gentlemen, ladies, please go down in the description, show him
some love in any way you can help participate because we're going to keep bringing the heat
with that.
Welcome.
Great to be here.
Thanks for having us.
It's like we never...
Thank you.
I know.
Right?
Inside little occult secrets that we carry.
Let's go ahead and get right into this, ladies and gentlemen.
Bryce is a third degree, working on his fourth degree black belt in Mormonism.
And I'm a white belt, man.
You got to teach me the ins and outs.
And so I need to learn, and we're going to have you start us off here.
We're going to be going into the history behind where this all takes place and leading up
to the first vision of Joseph Smith, I believe.
Yeah.
It might be helpful to lay a roadmap, a general overview of Mormon history before we dive into,
get lost in the weeds, because we're going to be doing that today with me, the insufferable
windbag, and with David, who is pithy and quick and knows Mormon history more than a
lot of people do.
We're going to get lost in the weeds.
So Derek, you're going to be responsible for reeling us back in, throwing us a life raft
and getting us back on the track.
So kind of a general overview, Mormon history happens in basically four central localities,
and it all centers around this figure who created it, Joseph Smith.
These localities are New York, where the early life of Joseph Smith comes into play, where
he gets his reputation as a seer and a practitioner of magic, and he propagates the story about
these ancient gold Bible, and he publishes the book of Mormon, and eventually is basically
chased out of New York, where he relocates to Ohio.
And Ohio is where he begins to build his cult of personality and begins to expand his theology
and expand into creating unique and proprietary beliefs within his framework and give hundreds
of revelations that he distributed through a vast network of propaganda machines.
He was very hot on this concept of the printing press.
Joe would be a very well followed tweeter today if he existed.
Eventually he runs his church into bankruptcy, and he's chased out of Ohio, and he removes
to Missouri, and he spends a year there at the larger Mormon settlement there in Missouri,
and he commits war against the state of Missouri, and he is arrested, and his people are chased
out of Missouri, where he removes to Illinois, where he is able to realize all of his plans
of a grand empire building in his fiefdom, his kingdom on the Mississippi that's known
as Nauvoo, Illinois.
And that is where he is assassinated while he is running for president of the United
States in 18th century.
Projectory of 39 years, we see the truly the American dream of somebody who goes from living
in rags to acquiring vast amounts of wealth, tens of thousands of followers, and builds
an entire career off of lies and propaganda, and aspires to become president of the United
States, overthrow the government, and instill a Mormon empire via this revolution.
And this revolution is to build a Zion the New Jerusalem, which will be the government,
the temporal government that is built on the American continent upon which Jesus will reign
after the second coming.
They create the temporal, that kingdom.
Exactly.
And let's pause for a second to take that in, because when we think of Joseph Smith,
we think of this nice upstanding guy who just reads his gold plates, but you've got a different
picture of this that most of us have no idea was a part of his story, just how high that
trajectory took him.
And I'm thinking of a couple of pictures of him in his early stage, and then him before
his death, before how high did he go?
Right.
So what was his ultimate ambitions?
Mormons are taught about this, Joseph Smith, right?
This is the Joseph Smith we see.
This is the portrait that a lot of people see.
He's this, you know, young man, and he's studiously, you know, translating his gold
plates. This is this ancient record written by, let me get this straight, Native American
Jews that migrated to America in wooden submarines, 2,500 years before Christ.
And we're white, and we're white, and we're white, and we're white and delights them.
And they wrote their history in Reformed Egyptian, which isn't a real thing.
Right.
This is the Joseph Smith that we all see.
But I don't like this picture of him very much because it's fake.
It's propaganda.
This is, this is fake history, right?
He reminds me of a young Lee Strobel, the way people want Lee Strobel.
Lee Strobel wants people to picture Lee Strobel.
Yeah. OK, fair enough, fair enough.
So that's a Joseph Smith we see.
But there's another picture of Joseph Smith that I find far more fascinating,
that I believe really captures the trajectory of the prophet, priest and king of the world.
And that is this picture.
And if the viewers will indulge us a little bit, I want to tease apart a couple
of elements of this, because this, this is titled The Last Public Address
of Lieutenant General Joseph Smith.
And what we have here in this picture is his final address in Nauvoo, Illinois,
before he was assassinated in a gunfight.
And, you know, if I know the mouse is not that great on the screen,
but I got to tease apart each of these elements, right?
So up here on the hill of Nauvoo, we have the Nauvoo Temple.
And Joseph built multiple temples throughout his life and did so by running the Mormons
into incredible amounts of debt and then declaring bankruptcy.
And all sorts of bad things happened because he was building these temples.
And they are all of the two temples that he was able to build
were the largest buildings in the localities.
They stood out.
They were built on top of hills and they were they were appealing to travelers.
You know, what is this building?
Oh, that's the Mormon Temple.
Oh, tell me more about that, right?
But also here in the midground of the painting, we have all of these soldiers, right?
This is Joseph Smith's Nauvoo legion, his own private militia,
which was larger than any state militia at the time.
And it rivaled the size of the entire federal armed forces at the time.
Think about that for a minute.
Yeah, he's a religious.
Now, like we can't there is no analog to this today,
but he is a religious leader with a militia that rivals the size
of the federal armed forces that we can't imagine what what that was like
to his contemporaries. Yeah.
That's unbelievable.
Like, how come we never hear this?
I mean, ever.
Like, is it I don't get it.
Is there is there like money being put out to prevent this history from being known?
I mean, this is just why is this not discussed?
Because this blows me away.
Right. Well, there are even more elements within this painting
that I think are important to tease out.
And these if we have this Nauvoo legion in the background here
and then we have all of these Mormons, you know, they're funneling out
of this printing house or the schoolhouse here.
Children and babies, this little baby right here has holding a trumpet here,
you know, to blow the trumpet, break the seals.
And we also have these three men right here, right?
We see these three men on their horses.
These three men were constables that were on direct orders
from the governor of Illinois, Governor Thomas Ford,
to arrest Joseph Smith on charges of inciting riot and treason.
That they were there to arrest him.
And he gave this speech on this makeshift lattice
that was built near the temple grounds, right?
They were there to arrest him with him.
Who's up there on the stage with him, right?
So here behind him, we have his older brother.
This is Hiram Smith.
He is, we consider him kind of an inferior figure.
So Joseph's right hand man, his closest assistant, you know,
definitely just as much as Joseph interested in building this Mormon
empire, the powers that be, that's quote, the powers that be
to instate this Mormon empire and see what this Mormon revolution would be.
Here we have a Joseph's personal assistant and scribe, William Clayton.
And we'll talk, we'll talk about William Clayton eventually.
But that's just a fun name to keep in mind, William Clayton.
And then I'm not sure who this is supposed to portray,
but we have here Joseph Smith.
And this is not the Joseph Smith dressed in rags studying his gold plates
and dictating to all of our country what is set on the plates
from the reformed Egyptian, translating it into ye olde English.
No, this is Joseph Smith in full military regalia.
This is Lieutenant General Joseph Smith with his, you know,
his receding hairline and slightly rotund form with his sword pointed
to the sky. And during the speech, he said that he would not sheath
his sword until the stone rolls forth and fills the whole kingdom.
You know, talking about this Mormon revolution, right?
He would not rest until he overthrows the government and creates
Mormon America, a Mormon American empire.
And that's not even exaggeration.
He literally wants to become the president slash high priest slash
king of America, and he had the army to do it.
He had the army to do it.
And notably right here, this guy, William Clayton, you know,
we'll talk more about him when Joseph was being eventually gave
himself up to these three guys to be arrested.
He told this guy, William Clayton, to burn or bury the minutes
of the Council of 50, which was his governmental body that he created
with its own constitution that would replace the three branches
of American government.
So this guy was responsible for taking those minutes and for keeping
all of the records of the Council of 50, as well as the Council of 50
Constitution, Joseph Smith knew how treasonous that document was
and told William Clayton to burn or bury the minutes before he died.
Before there were shred machines, there were fireplaces.
Oh, before we leave that picture, I just wanted to point out in the
in the corner there on the stage.
Can we take a look at that real fast?
Yeah. Even more worrying, he also had a sorting hat.
Yeah. Don't hear a lot about that from Mormon missionaries.
Yeah, Joseph is definitely slithering.
Absolutely.
I have to stop everybody here for a moment that are watching us.
And I want you to take just like I am.
I'm ignorant on this topic, but I know enough from what they've mentioned
in terms of broad stroke, you're literally going to get naked Mormonism here.
And that's literally what Bryce's channel is.
It's naked Mormonism.
So you're going to see the Mormon Church, Joseph Smith, his following,
their teachings, the secret teachings, stuff that you will not find anywhere else
unless you really go digging.
You're going to find that on this series and you're going to find that by
listening to Bryce and listening to Mr. Fitzgerald here.
I'm going to be kind of a poke in once in a while to just go, huh, what?
You know, and maybe I have questions, but guys, collect your questions.
If we don't cover it in this series, we'll do a live at the end
or do something special for you guys.
And with that being said, please continue, Bryce.
I just had to let them know like they're going to see I've never even knew this.
I mean, holy crap, he was trying to take over the United States.
Who knows this?
You know, so there's a lot more here.
You're going to be blown away.
Hey, Bryce, can we go back a little bit and just set the stage
for what led to Joseph Smith?
Certainly.
And I want listeners to know that we're, you know, we're going to do our due
diligence here to to and I say listeners because I'm a podcaster, right?
The viewers, my mistake, I want you all to understand that, like, you know,
a 12 part series on Joseph Smith and early Mormonism, are you serious?
How are you even going to find material to feel that?
By the by the end of this, right?
This, this guy, he is an absolute fascist and he went to jail
and was assassinated in jail because he destroyed a rival printing press
that published an expose on his, his vast overreach of government powers,
on polygamy, on many other aspects of his criminal kingdom.
And he destroyed that press and had to go to jail for it, gave himself up.
At that time, though, he was working with, you know, Browning Guns,
that same Browning that started Browning Arms Company.
Well, his dad was a gunsmith, was a Mormon, and he was building guns
for this Mormon empire.
He was working with an inventor who had plans to build a battery
and steam powered submarine that you could equip with a flamethrower
in order to overthrow the British Empire, because British superiority
was naval based, right?
This guy, like he is an absolute monster and he carries so many lessons
of what populism and what a religious cult of personality can do
and the power that it wields and the dangers inherent within that.
And luckily enough, like we can study all of world religions
and they're all ancient, right?
We don't have the founding documents.
We don't have the court documents of Jesus getting convicted to, you know,
to be crucified, right?
Like we don't have those documents of other religions we do with Mormonism.
So we can see the trajectory of a religious demagogue from rags to riches,
capturing that American dream of I'm going to build and build and build
and consume everything until there is nobody on the planet that isn't a Mormon.
We're not running out of material anytime soon.
In fact, if they made an HBO series out of this, not only would it go on for years,
but it would have enough sex and violence to keep everybody happy for a long time.
Drugs, too.
I'm not even kidding that.
But let's again, let's go back to the very beginning.
Before Joseph Smith was Joseph Smith when he was just humble.
Joe Smith living in upstate New York in the burned out just let's.
Yeah, well, David, can you give us a bit of a, you know, a brief overview
of the burned over district because that in and of itself is going to set the stage
for us a lot today. Right.
So what we call the burned over district was a time and a place
upstate New York in the 1820s or so, where it was just one religious movement
after another, like wildfire would come in, sweep over the whole district
and then burn itself out until the next religious movement came in and burn itself out.
And it was the birthplace and the cradle of all these religions, not just Mormonism,
but the Millerites who became the Jehovah's Witnesses and the the Adventists.
The shakers, the Quakers and all these bizarre obscure little
hippie cults and apocalyptic cults and religious movements
and utopian movements that we never heard of before.
But all of them came out of this this one time and place.
So on the one hand, you had this this new religious revival
that really called the Great Awakening.
And on the other end, folklore world of folk magic.
And this was the same generation that gave us
Rip Van Winkle and Ichabod Crane and the headless horseman.
That post-revolutionary war, when this was happening,
there were still founding fathers alive, like Thomas Jefferson, like James John Adams.
They had a war with Britain was like the Second American Civil War.
They'd gotten the Louisiana Purchase and now the country was twice as big as it had been just a few years ago.
So this is a time when America is this baby country
that's really starting to grow by leaps and bounds and the religious imagination
and the folklore combined to make all these incredible religious movements.
And that's something we wanted to get into.
It's just talking about the magical worldview that permeated this time.
Let's also do a little bit of time with the disappearing Indians as well, right?
Because epidemiology wasn't generally understood at the time.
It was the curse or the scourge of God or whatever, right?
Smallpox had nothing to do with it. It was all God.
Exactly, exactly.
So as white European settlers were moving further and further west
and pushing more and more native tribes out of their native lands,
A, that presented some moral questions for the people who were doing those things.
They needed to rationalize and justify what was going on
and why they were encountering these people and these people are trying to kill them.
And, you know, why these people who are, you know, these savage Indians
who are so uncivilized are leaving behind these huge cities and these mounds
and all of these massive and incredible artifacts and amazing technology.
They needed to understand who was responsible for building all of these things
because these savage Indians that we are killing and that are trying to kill us back
couldn't possibly be responsible for this.
No, yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
So various theories propounded of who was actually responsible
for building all of these civilizations and these mounds and these cities
and these ruins that they were encountering,
not understanding that it was due to their own actions
that the European settlers were killing off Native Americans.
I mean, millions, millions of Native Americans.
I mean, some estimates say as high as 95% of Native Americans.
That can be as many as 30 million people died beginning in 1500s,
the late 1500s with the conquistadors, right?
Like, this is a really tough time and they didn't have our modern scientific
and archaeological evidence and that entire body of knowledge
to understand what was going on, but they're also trying to rationalize
their own conduct of genocide, right?
So eventually, you know, various people came up with stories
and this is the world in which the Book of Mormon was born,
that these enlightened white Jewish people, Christians,
came over to America before Christ and built the civilizations
that the Europeans were encountering as they settled further west.
And eventually, the more warlike, unenlightened,
the darker skinned Lamanites in the Book of Mormon narrative
killed off all of the civilized white and the lights and Nephites.
And the only ones that were left were the more uncivilized Lamanites,
the darker skinned Lamanites.
So the inherent racism and the inherent white supremacy
that is built into this worldview is necessary to understand
how the Book of Mormon came to be, how Joseph's own beliefs
and own white supremacy informed the content of the Book of Mormon
and how much that idea permeated the culture of the time.
And all of the various environmental factors
that contributed to creating that worldview.
Wow.
That's crazy.
So, OK, yes, I've heard something about Indians in the past
and this whole thing, and there's some strange ideas
surrounding ancient ancient angels and and then connections
with them being the Lost Tribes and all this interesting stuff.
We'll be getting.
Is this something you think we're going to get into more depth later?
This is just some preparation ground going into the time in which this is happening.
I know that you mentioned magic.
Does this play a part on finding out about who this guy, Joseph Smith, is?
I mean, what's going on?
Let's let's let's go with Joseph Smith, young Joseph Smith
and then back our way back into the magic, because first we got to find out
this kid who was responsible for giving us Mormonism.
Right. So Joseph Smith was born in Vermont,
1805, he grew up in Vermont, New Hampshire and New York.
And we're lucky enough that the Salt Lake City based Mormon Church,
the Church of Jesus Christ, the Latter Day Saints is incredibly wealthy
and they purchased up all of the land and built replicas of all of these
important locations in Joseph Smith's early life.
So here we have their reproduction of the Smith family home in New York.
This is the Palmyra Manchester area and it's a nice little log home.
But this is built in, you know, this this replica that we see here
is based on the plans that they had of common log homes at the time.
It's pretty accurate for how it would have looked back then.
There were 11 people living in this house
and the Smith family were habitually destitute.
They did anything that they could to make money.
And that was, you know, being a hired hand for local farmers
that was collecting, harvesting molasses and making sugar.
That was a cake and beer shop that they would make cake and beer.
And then during the summers, they would wheel it around on carts
and sell it to the local townsfolk.
This is this is the world that the Smith family lived in.
And this is the little cabin that Joseph Smith grew up in.
And the Smith family themselves were destitute.
So any means of getting money to pay for anything to survive
were, you know, were utilized and were implemented in order to support the family.
Notably as well, Joseph Sr. Joe's dad was a drunker.
The guy was he was an alcoholic and all of the time he was out of the way with wine.
And that's a quote from him specifically from himself.
He he spent a lot of time just drinking.
Joe's mom, Lucy, Lucy Max Smith, she was much more given
towards Methodism and towards more Orthodox Protestant religions.
But Joseph Sr. was gifted a copy of Thomas Paine's Age of Reason
by Lucy's brother and dad.
And he read that and basically it was like all religions are corrupt.
He became a deist or a universalist, not, you know, not you, you like we know today,
the Atheist Church, but the universalist is in universal salvation for everybody.
And all of this while, the Smith family were heavily steeped into magic
and occult traditions, right?
And this is going to kind of inform us of the first vision experience
because the Smith family going back up.
Magic exists around us today.
People believe in magic all the time, right?
People will sleep with crystals under their pillows or they'll, you know,
they'll think that the demon sperm are going to, you know,
take over your brain when they're going to put it in a vaccine
because Bill Gates and Anthony Fauci shared a room at whatever.
You know, whatever. The lizard people, yeah.
The lizard people, right? A Bermuda Triangles.
Yeah. Bigfoot. It's all. It's all there. Yeah.
Yeah. So the magic world view is not something that has ever gone.
OK, it's still very much a part of every day here.
And it's surrounded or surrounded by it, right?
That's going to help us understand the Smith Magic World View, right?
Because magic that we consider today is magic, the gathering, D&D, stuff like that.
That's not the magic of the 19th century.
The magic that they used back then was the occult, the hidden,
the secret, right?
And that's the definition of occult.
It's not, you know, dyed hair and, you know, seances and stuff.
The occult merely means the hidden, something that's hidden,
oftentimes hidden in plain sight.
So the Smith family practiced these occult traditions,
this esoteric knowledge.
For example, Lucy Max Smith, she did palm readings.
Joseph Sr., he used divining rods, right?
And there are people today who are water witches who walk around with sticks
and try and, you know, find some water on a farmer's land
where it's a good place to dig for water, right?
These magic traditions exist to this day.
Joseph Smith was a seer, so he would use stones.
He would use magic stones that were oftentimes bound to him ritually
in order to see things that couldn't be perceived otherwise.
And 90% of this for the Smith family was using that power to seek out treasure.
Treasure, yes.
And that's really important.
And in order to understand kind of what these treasure digs look like,
I want to read a quote from one of the neighbors of the Smiths,
a friend of the Smiths, Peter Ingersoll, right?
He was a good friend of the Smiths.
He was a neighbor of them.
He helped him, you know, move stuff around and he was just a good guy, right?
He gave an affidavit in 1833.
And this is just three years after the church was founded.
And it gives us a brief illustration of what these treasure digs actually looked like.
And we're going to use this kind of a jump off point to discuss more of this magic
worldview and how what evidence we have of the Smith family
engaging in these practices.
So Peter Ingersoll says, quote, the general employment of the Smith family
was digging for money.
I had frequent invitations to join the company,
but always declined being one of their number, right?
So it wasn't just the Smiths themselves.
It was an entire treasure digging troop.
They used various arguments to induce me to accept of their invitations.
I was once plowing near the House of Joseph Smith, senior about noon.
He requested me to walk with him a short distance from his house
for the purpose of seeing whether a mineral rod that's that's a dimming rod
would work in my hand, saying at the time he was confident it would.
As my oxen were eating and being myself at leisure, I accepted the invitation.
When we arrived near the place at which he thought there was money,
he cut a small witch hazel bush and gave me direction how to hold it.
He then went off some rods and told me to say to the rod, work to the money,
which I did in an audible voice.
Isn't that just a great quote of Mormon history, work to the money?
He continues. Wow.
So he says this in an audible voice, right?
He rebuked me severely for speaking it loud and said, it must be spoken in a
whisper. This was a rare sport for me.
While the old man was standing off some rods, throwing himself into various
shapes, I told him the rod did not work.
He seemed much surprised at this and said, he thought he saw it moved in my hand.
And it was now time for me to return to my labor.
So that's, you know, we kind of understand what this looks like, right?
And what these practices kind of look like and how Joseph Sr.
was able to induce somebody to get him to join the troop.
And it could, you know, he could create a ruse that they would find.
They would discover something magically that was buried under the ground.
And then that person would be induced to believe that they had discovered it by
these magical means.
And give us a breakdown of some of the magical incantations and rituals that
they had to perform to make it work, because this is fascinating to me too.
Right, right. So part of these, these magic traditions are magic in
general, or the occult is basically how the world is moved and shaped in
order to be executed within the context of the will of God, right?
So God is everything.
Everything is God.
Everything is moved and shaped by God, but God uses forces.
God uses spirits.
God uses these things, these entities in order to influence the natural
world in order to remain mysterious, right?
And it's very similar to, you know, like pantheism where everything is God
and God is everything, right?
But also with like God is using forces to lead us towards good ends and
the adversaries using forces to lead us towards bad ends.
That's the breakdown of white and black magic, of right hand path and left hand
path magic.
And you bump into these figures in your normal life, in the woods, at the
crossroads, you could run into the devil or Jesus at any moment in the
shape of a deer or a mouse, you know, or, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
So for instance, take us on a treasure hunting dig.
What were some of the things they had to do to like hone in on this
treasure once you see your coins as a way?
Yeah, so, well, I'll just say, part of my research is in investigating the
use of psychedelics and early Mormonism.
So oftentimes these would be predicated on a system of ritualistic
washing and anointing or partaking of a sacrament, fasting, getting into
the right mindset, a system of purity.
And Joseph Smith was known as the virgin scryer of the group.
And what the scryer did, the seer did, is they used a magic implement, whether
that's a divining rod or a stone, with sensory deprivation by sticking it
in their hat the way Joseph Smith did, in order to see things that are buried
underground, and they could see things.
And, you know, if you're hopped up on psychedelics, you might see some
merry treasure, you might see a city through a mountain, you might see the
magic spirit guardians, you might see conjured spirits, you might hear
audible hallucinations, you could see and experience all sorts of things that
the rest of the group might not.
And how did Joseph get involved with us?
Did he have a mentor?
Did he have a spiritual tradition to draw upon?
Right, right, right, yeah.
So let's talk about that in a second.
So let's walk through the treasure dig, right?
Because like all of these, this information is passed through oral traditions
and through practicing and through fraternity with other magic practitioners
and other occultists, right?
And Joseph had a few mentors in all of this.
But in during these treasure digs, you would have to do all sorts of things.
There were a lot of components to the treasure dig.
You would have to remain silent after the spell had begun.
You would have to bury witch hazel or iron rods into the ground in a magic
circle and the seer would then locate where the buried treasure is and point
out to the diggers where it is.
And then they would put the sticks in the ground in a circle around that.
And then they would speak an incantation, a binding spell that would
bind the treasure and its guardian to that location, to that magic sigil
that's in the ground.
And oftentimes you have to do that because otherwise some pesky ghost
or spirit could just steal the treasure, sink it into the ground away.
Yeah, the ground gnomes, the ground gnomes are really elusive.
Yeah, it's a very difficult science to get this right.
That's right.
And sometimes even animal sacrifice, too.
I got a whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait, got animal sacrifice.
Let's hear about that.
Go ahead, Derek.
No, no, no, now we're getting to the meat of the topic, literally.
And I'm going to interrupt.
Let me not because I'm going to wait.
Go ahead and talk about the sacrifice.
Because yeah, because we're getting into we're a total of Harry Potter land
right now. Yeah, totally.
So this is within the Israelite tradition of having a scapegoat, right?
So the treasure diggers would cast their sins in order for purification
into a lamb or into a black dog, which would then during the incantation
whoever is performing the binding spell, they would slit the throat of it
and lead it in the circle around the the magic sigil.
And that would basically be one more step or it would be the completion
of the binding spell that would keep the treasure where it is,
where it is underground to keep it from sinking further in or to being
moved to a new location or something like that by the guardian,
the spirit guardians of the treasure.
And it's interesting to do to know that one of the rules in Joseph Smith's
case was as seer, he could not be allowed to touch a shovel or dig at all.
Because if he dug or did manual labor of any type,
he would lose his abilities forever.
So right, exactly.
Tough burden on him, tough burden on him to avoid the digging.
OK, OK, let me poke in here.
This is interesting.
My question is because I was raised a Christian, right?
Or at least to some degree, I lived as a Christian.
I didn't know about magic.
Like, that wasn't that wasn't a thing.
I mean, in fact, if you just said blood magic is a sacrifice from the Old Testament,
I wouldn't even know what that meant.
But how did they even I mean, maybe I'm asking this goes outside a little bit.
But like, was this culturally known in this area?
Like, somehow did these topics and ideas of magic and practicing
such sorcery stuff find its way in?
I mean, I know the Puritans had the Salem witch trials,
and that's kind of interesting that there was possible real witches,
even though when I checked that out, I was like, they're really burning
little girls for no reason.
But, you know, it's really good poison.
But where did these ideas come from?
Like, I, as a Christian, never maybe I guess you could say, you know,
when I'd burn my slipknot CDs when I was trying to my sense,
you know, they had colors like I'm not kidding.
Even I was young, we had a bonfire and I took all my heavy metal,
my mud vein, my slipknot, all that stuff, and I'm like burning these CDs.
And I'm looking at the colors that came from it,
not thinking those are chemicals that are caused by transactions.
I'm like, those are spirits.
But where did these ideas come from?
I don't want to take too much time up from this because this is good.
But. Well, there was a rich tapestry of this kind of folk belief
from Europe from and it just came over.
And if you've ever seen the movie, The Witch,
it does an amazing job of creating a modern day horror story
that's based in pilgrim times, based on pilgrim accounts.
It's fascinating.
It's a really amazing job with it. OK.
Well, and I think that the premise of the question is wrong, Derek,
you say, where do they come from?
It's not like they start anywhere.
They are just captured and they are used and they move these concepts
and these esoteric ideas and pursuits more than these pursuits of esoteric knowledge
are transmitted among many, many cultures.
And with the advent of the printing press, like this stuff exploded
and during the Enlightenment era, right?
So there are like the paragons of occult philosophy.
Henry Cornelius Agrippa is, you know, he's, you know, born in, I think,
like the very late 1400s and he wrote his three book, Occult Philosophy
in the early 1500s.
And this is at a time when Catholicism was losing its iron fisted grasp
over the Western Empire, over the not Empire, but over the Western world.
And people were exploring via the printing press other fields of knowledge
because no longer did the Catholic Church have the stranglehold on the word of God
because now the Bible was available to everyone.
And the the infusion of these these beliefs and and the way that people were
not compartmentalizing, but meshing together their beliefs in occult practices
and the biblical teachings, those are not concepts that were ever separated.
They were all part of this same magic world of you that people have today.
We we live in a world where, you know, the satanic panic drove people away
from dungeons and dragons of face cards and Harry Potter
and those same elements come about through the Orthodox traditionalists
decrying and lamenting how people believe in these magic ideas.
But no, they need to believe in the right magic ideas.
But the other people who are, you know, more esoterically minded, they say,
you know, a Christian goes to church to read their Bible to learn about God.
And I can go into the woods and learn more about God in two hours.
And you will your whole life, right?
And I say that because that's a quote from Joseph Smith,
that it's it's all the same belief system.
And and Joseph Smith was, you know, steeped in this idea.
And it's understandable, too, that occult practices are looked down on
by higher and enlightened and, you know, educated society
because they're not Orthodox.
And, you know, at best, these things are a waste of time.
At worst, these are satanic.
These are evil.
You're meddling with familiar spirits.
These things don't ever come from anywhere.
They just take on slightly different iterations as we move through different cultures.
And again, the culture at the time was permeated with it, soaking in it.
So we got lost in the weeds, gentlemen.
A little bit, a little bit.
Let's let's backtrack, because I want to ask so many questions.
Freemasons, all that, because I heard he was one.
But we'll talk about some of this stuff later.
And you can probably poke into some of this because the temple itself
gives symbolism in a weird way.
But, and guys, like I said to the audience, stick around.
You're going to want to see what what we cover is everything from sex,
love, hate, crime, death, it's all in this.
It's it's pretty much a Game of Thrones, but here on this show.
So, yeah, Bryce, keep going.
Take us into this guy.
What's going on, Bryce?
I'm hoping you can tell us about Joseph Smith's specific
magical tradition that informed him.
Yeah.
So let's spend a little bit of time with the the the mentors, right?
Because we we don't have any evidence that Joseph Smith was a bookworm
that he was reading a cult philosophy, because it's, you know,
it's like 600 page, you know, three part book, or pseudo Grepa,
or even Francis Barrett's, you know, pamphlet.
It's a hundred and something pages.
We don't have any evidence that Joseph Smith was ever reading anything ever.
He was he didn't care much about books, even though he was, you know,
pretty prolific author, dictator, I guess I should say.
But he did have people who were his essentially his mentor,
people who would teach him these things and he would absorb these
knowledge, this these esoteric fields of knowledge through mentors
and through the people with whom he associated, right?
So, you know, just like atheists today, who can talk endlessly
about passages from the Bible and how horrible and bloodthirsty and sexist
and racist the Bible is, and they can spend so much time talking about that
without ever having actually read the Bible themselves.
I fall into that camp, right?
People practicing these occult traditions can very much so be, you know,
practicing them and know these things and have a passing familiarity
and become a pseudo expert on these things without ever having read
a grip as a cult philosophy or Francis Barrett or Ebenezer Sibley
or any of these other occult philosophers.
But if you wanted to, if you want to become, yeah, yeah, yeah.
If you want to become really steeped in magic, you went to Europe and one
of Joseph's magic mentors was named Lumen Walters, which you see his
gravestone right here, right?
This guy was somebody who had magic implements.
He had a stuffed toad.
He had divining rods.
He had seer stones and he passed these fields of knowledge down to Joseph Smith.
He also had books that were written in Latin, which if you're somebody
who believes in occult and you believe in all of these esoteric traditions
and somebody who you admire as, you know, steeped as an expert in these things
is reading to you in Latin out of a book that doesn't have a title
that's, you know, worn and old, maybe a couple hundred years old.
Your brain is going to melt out of your face.
He's the real deal.
That's yes, exactly.
Check. Yeah.
Yeah. So Lumen Walters is one of those stone here.
I'm looking at an apothecary modern pestle.
Is that what we're looking at?
Yeah, that is right.
And so that taps even more into my research of psychedelics and early
Mormonism, because this guy, he was Joseph Smith's magic mentor.
Then he joined up with the very early Mormon movement in New York and
possibly in Kirtland.
And then he left the church and he moved to a little town called Gorham,
New York, where he opened up an herbal remedy shop.
And he was well renowned in the area for making magic tinctures
and herbal remedies for all sorts of purposes.
And if you read in these occult philosophy books, I mean, Agrippa specifically,
it is filled with herbal remedies of people suffumagating, you know,
smoking herbs or partaking of them or using them as a topical ointment
in for the purpose of aiding in prophecy and for conjuring spirits.
And for, you know, things that we call hallucinations, right?
But they are things that they would smoke these herbs or partake of these herbs
in order to allow them to see the mind and will of God in order to open
their spiritual eyes in order to experience the esoteric and the occult world.
And that practice that Smith would do of like putting his face in a hat,
that seems a example of this kind of altered states where you
cut yourself off from the outside world and focus, you know,
what's the word? A psychonaut, a psychonaut.
Sensory deprivation, right?
You know, Joe Rogan sits in like a, you know, a metal water tank or whatever
when he's tripping, because it forces your mind to manufacture
and to play into spheres where it doesn't have any sensory input.
It just, it just runs hog wild.
And Joseph Smith depriving his his sense of sight is, you know,
I believe more evidence of him using these altered states of consciousness.
And he also uses magical implements and magical, like I'm thinking of the seer stone.
Right. Yes. So the seer stone is definitely a great example.
And I want listeners or viewers to know what we're talking about
with the magic worldview of the Smith family and Joseph Smith.
This is not speculative, right?
This is not something that is like, oh, this is going on in the world around him.
Therefore, he must have been steeped in these things.
We have artifactual evidence, right?
So the church recently published their picture of the seer stone
that they have in their own first presidency vault.
And I actually have an example of it that kind of looks similar to it.
You can kind of see it here on the video,
but it's kind of this brown seer stone with darker brown stripes through it.
That was, you know, his Urim and Thummim that he used to locate the gold plates
as well as translate the gold plates into English.
But there it was more than that.
He also had access to these magic parchment.
And the magic parchment.
Yeah, before you get into the parchment, where did he get his seer stone?
He says, knowing full well where he got the seer stone.
He he located it by using somebody else's seer stone.
Sally Chase was a seer in in Manchester area, who he was friends with.
And he borrowed her green stone and was like, I see a better seer stone.
And somebody found while digging a well on somebody else's property.
Yeah, on her brother's farm, Willard Chase.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So, I mean, seer stones, it's fun.
But and that's some we have a number of his seer stones, actually,
as many as five different seer stones that he used.
But we also have what are known as the Smith family layman.
Here we go. And that's what this is.
This is a magical parchment that it was used that was given to somebody
as basically part of their initiation into some esoteric practices.
And this one, like these are terrible scans
because these artifacts haven't been opened to researchers for about 40 years now.
So all the pictures are coming from the late seventies, early eighties.
And they're digitized are terrible, but it's the best we have right now.
And if I'm not mistaken, this comes from Michael Quinn's book
on early Mormonism and the magical worldview. Is that correct?
That's right. Yeah.
And that that is the best resource on all of this, right?
Like that that is the standard pillar of firsthand research
that puts that establishes the magic worldview that we understand.
So if you can get through it.
Yeah, it's because it is a brick of a book and not only that,
but there's almost 100 plates just like this.
Yes. Yeah.
And showing the connection to Smith directly.
Yeah. And he takes pictures from all sorts of magic grimoires
from the time, as well as these these plates
from directories of initiation rights of like the Afrata cloister
and these these men in like these magical garments,
these these special garments that have some Masonic elements to them,
but are also part of proprietary initiatory rights,
which Joseph Smith made his own of, right?
Gotcha. So they're secret societies, basically, we would.
Secret secret combinations, one might say,
which is a Book of Mormon term.
So this this parchment, specifically,
this is known as the Saint Peter bind them parchment.
And this is part of a binding ritual.
And binding spells are good for all sorts of things.
You can bind things to other things.
You can bind treasure to a magic sigil on top of the treasure.
You can bind a seer stone to its user.
You can bind things in order to whatever is bound on Earth,
is bound in heaven.
And this is known as the Saint Peter bind them parchment.
And you can see a couple of the magic sigils around here.
But on the back of it is notably where you see the actual
form of the Saint Peter bind them spell from Francis Barrett's
1805, a cold grimoire known as the Magus.
And it's specifically taken only from the Magus,
as demonstrated by D. Michael Quinn.
So we have this occult picture here.
This is the Saint Peter bind them layman.
This is a much better picture.
This is a lot more detailed than you can really see
the importance of what is here, because there is so much in this one picture
right here. Right.
So this is known as the Holiness to the Lord parchment
for having Holiness to the Lord on three of the sides of it.
And I believe it says Holiness to the Lord in Hebrew on this side right here.
But we have all of these magic sigils here.
As well as a seven pointed star and this little inscription IHS,
which Quinn postulates is actually an abbreviation
of basically Hiram Smith's initiated name, his temple name, basically.
Which means that.
Yeah. Oh, well, I was going to say, so these aren't even just
the current contemporary magical artifacts of the time.
These are Smith family artifacts.
That's correct. Right.
And these these parchments were made for the initiate by their mentor.
And there's there's some numerology built into this
this triangle right here as well that leads Quinn to believe
that it was actually Lumen Walters who made this magic parchment
for Hiram Smith and these parchments and as well as some seer stones
and a ceremonial knife that has agla engraved into it.
A GLA, one of the names of God.
It's been retained in the Hiram Smith family
collection in a private collection.
And D. Michael Quinn was lucky enough in the early 80s to gain access
to that collection and photograph all of these things,
which you can find in early Mormonism and the magical view.
So that's a brief question about we have seer stone and the ermine
Thumen, whatever.
I know that they're they cast lots in the Bible and stuff.
And there's kind of like this sovereignty choice type.
Let me flip this coin and, you know, where it lands.
God is the one who picked that.
And it's kind of a sign of magic, you know, it's chance magic type thing.
But it's it's sanctioned.
It's OK, because it's cool.
It's our orthodox package.
Does the Mormon church try to say, oh, they aren't seer magic stones
like a magician known as this is nothing different
from what you're reading from your Bible?
Is this what they're doing with this, even though we know that's not the case?
Shit, that's a huge question.
Well, I think it would be fair to say
that there is a certain degree of either avoiding the issue altogether.
Yes, so no one even found out this is the case.
In fact, let's just put the put that out in the open.
For years, this whole career that he had of being a treasurer, see,
being a seer stone seer,
the church denied this completely.
That those are just lies of his enemies and started with him.
Yeah. And what was that great quote from the Mormon historian
who said that if that was true, that at this time
that would be the end of Mormonism.
Yeah, yeah, you know, you know, yeah, you know, you have that you nearly quote
because it's spot on.
I don't have it right in front of me.
It was something to a fact of, well, if if this was going on during these years
that he was supposedly preparing himself and purifying himself to be worthy
to get the plates of God, it would be fatal to the Mormon church.
Right. And he was using that in reference specifically to the 1826 trial
where he was convicted of being a glass looker, right?
Which they using the seer stone, which they denied for the longest time
that that trial even happened at all, that that was just lies from his enemies.
Until about 10 years after Nibley said that when somebody did find the original
1928 26 court case
that shows that not only was he put on trial,
but he was found guilty of defrauding these people.
Exactly. Yeah.
And so the narrative, the institutional narrative
initially Joseph Smith did his best to distance himself from the magic practices
in his early church, right?
In the very earliest days of the church, he did his best to minimize
any of the magic, any of the seer stones, any of that stuff.
The concept of the Euroman Thumman that was only known among his very closest acolytes.
Eventually, as his church expanded, especially into the Nauvoo era,
where he began really capturing and ensconcing these more esoteric practices
into his own theology and incorporating them into his own theology more.
That's when he began revealing more of the magic practices to a wider group of people
and creating the anointed quorum in the endowment ceremony
and installing a Masonic Lodz in Nauvoo.
And these more esoteric practices began kind of creeping their way back
into the church at that time.
But prior to that, he had been minimizing the role of these things
and instead just kind of being much more broad about like personal revelation and stuff like that.
As soon as he died, the the church under Brigham Young did everything possible
to squash that shit, to get rid of it as much as possible,
to get rid of any magic practices.
But many of the people who were leaders in the Utah era, church under Brigham Young
were people who joined the church in Joseph's early years,
and they were magic practitioners themselves.
And they they continued those practices.
It wasn't until the very early 20th century
that profits came along.
Joseph F. Smith, which is a nephew of Joseph
and Heber J. Grant that they made this concerted effort to squash out all magic
to remove any historical artifacts that had anything to do with magic,
to remove any connections with masonry, to remove all of these esoteric practices
and even to remove the esoteric symbolism on the temples themselves,
the new temples that they were building.
So like there's a concerted effort to distance itself from all of these things.
And now, apologists and apostles of the church,
they are trying to reconcile the seer stone with technology
and with the scientific worldview.
And we have the apostle Dieter Uchtdorf holding up his iPhone
and saying and comparing his iPhone to the seer stone,
saying that this is the way that that God communicated with Joseph Smith.
So there's this this vacillation and this this weirdness
and the church doesn't know what to do with all this magic stuff
because they also were part of the satanic panic and like
occultism is evil and satanic and sacrificing kittens.
It makes me think, Bryce, it really makes me think the reason that they did this
isn't because they didn't think magic was good or, you know, part of the practice.
I mean, they probably didn't even frown upon it during Joseph Smith's day.
It was all the critics that caused the church to go down a different groove.
They if they were being true to their beliefs from the start,
they wouldn't shy away from this.
This would have been something from the get go.
And I think that we will get into polytheism, too, which is another reason
why, you know, later on, oh, it's not allowed.
But these fringe sex say, we don't care what the world says.
I'm having 20 wives, you know.
And so, yeah, this is interesting.
Don't make it mean not polytheism.
Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, they have that, too.
I mean, everyone's a god who has a god who has had that, too.
This is going to be so fun.
And here's the thing.
This this pattern that we see of the church suddenly getting later
embarrassed by all this and trying to bury it or re spin it.
We're going to see that again and again again in this series
because that just about every aspect of early
Mormonism embarrasses modern Mormonism.
Well, with that, I think we need to stick a needle in it,
because honestly, we can get and we can go and go.
I think in our next episode, since this is our first one,
on our second episode, we can talk about the vision in detail
and really press into this crazy,
definitely unorthodox experience that this man had.
And with that, would you guys like to say some closing things
before we end this episode?
Well, I would just say, stay tuned, because we buckle up.
It's going to be a bumpy ride because we are just getting started.
Just getting started.
I will echo that and say,
you know, I one of my earliest starts was on skating Atheist podcast
and the phrase coined by the host of that show,
No Illusions was Fractal Bullshit because the more you examine
the closer and more ingrained you study these things,
the more it's just it's it's crazier the deeper you go.
And as an example of this, right, like the seer stone
that Joseph Smith had that he used to translate all of these things.
Right. Like he used or he found that seer stone
by using somebody else's seer stone that he then
like got while digging a well that he found with that other seer stone.
And then the person didn't want to give him that seer stone.
So he stole it from that person.
That is in that same seer stone that he used to discover the plates
that he manufactured and then translate the the the gold plates,
which are Native American Jews that came over to America
on wooden submarines, riding their histories in reformed Egyptian on gold plates.
He used his seer stone to translate that thing and then, you know,
use the seer stone for more revelations throughout the church.
Right. Like the more that you zoom in on these these aspects of Mormon history,
the wackier and more fun it gets. And joke. Yeah.
As we were planning this series, David said,
I'm worried that there might be a middle, you know, kind of a slog in the middle here.
And I'm like, man, and there there is nothing about Mormon history
that isn't fun. So I hope that viewers stick around for the rest of this series
because we're having we're prepared to have a lot of fun.
And HBO, if you're listening, this is your next Game of Thrones right here.
Sex, violence, craziness, sex, violence, craziness.
And drugs, too. Got it all.
Yeah, I totally agree with you guys.
I think not only that, Joe Rogan should definitely get ahold of both of you guys
after this series and say time to get on.
And that'll be a plug for you, David, to mention mythicism.
That would be interesting, you know, to really talk about some fanatical ideas
that people aren't aware of and like, whoa, what the heck?
Are you kidding me?
And so I definitely want to continue the series.
If you're watching and you have questions by the time we get done,
you can write them down now.
I definitely encourage that.
If he has not or these gentlemen have not covered your question to some degree,
we'll do a live for you.
We'll do something fun at the end.
And this way you can get your questions answered.
You guys can always email them to me,
but I won't be taking a look at them till we're done with the series.
And there's no telling how long this is going to last.
So with that being said, I appreciate it, guys.
Thank you very much.
I can't wait.
I had to be awesome.
Don't forget we are MythVision.
