Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Come on, subscribe to this podcast.
We are MedVision.
Welcome back to the show MedVision Podcast, your host Derek Lambert.
Early Mormon history.
We have the Mormonites, the Josephites, possibly against the Missouriites, if you will.
People in Missouri are not digging this guy, Joseph Smith.
I don't blame them.
And you guys are going to hear some interesting context to this.
There's a lot of history that I did not know about that I'm already wanting to know more
about by going and checking out our guest on the show's programs and books.
We have David Fitzgerald, author of The Complete Heretics Guide and Early Mormon.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Get the book out.
Let me see this.
Here it is.
It's simple.
So Mormons, The Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion.
Thank you so much.
I really do appreciate that.
Guys, go down in the description, right?
All you have to do is click the link.
Check it out on Amazon.
You guys can get an e-book.
You guys can get a hard copy.
That helps my guest to continue doing what they're doing.
And I hope that you guys do that.
We also have Bryce Blankenagle.
He's a Mormon history communicator.
He hosts the Naked Mormonism Podcast.
If you like MythVision Podcast, go check him out, please.
And he goes in exhaustive detail.
How many freckles she had.
How many guys did she sleep with?
You know, the whole nine.
You want the skinny, go check out the podcast.
Help support me as a Patreon.
You guys can join on the monthly contribution.
Help these guys grow.
Please, I'm asking you nicely.
And we're going to answer your questions at the end of the show.
So with that being said, let's get back to Jerry Springer and watch what this crazy cult
leader, Joseph Smith, has to say.
And I'm going to make this a full screen view this time, guys.
We're not all three going to be on here.
It's going to be whoever's talking is the guy who's seen.
Thank you.
Take us off.
So I want to just start off by sending some admiration to our host, Derek.
Because for all intents and purposes, what Derek has been doing for this entire series
is trying to herd puppies through a bacon factory, right?
Like it is a feat of strength to be able to rein in David and I when we're getting lost
down these rabbit trails and trying to discuss all of these matters within the proper context
and to balance the context with the content.
So kudos to you, Derek.
I hope the listeners are having as much fun as David and I are because this is fun stuff.
We are having a blast, an absolute blast with this series.
Thank you, gentlemen.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate that.
And I just hope to hear more and learn from you guys.
Right on.
Right on.
So we have the Josephites, the Mormonites, early Mormonism starting in New York and then
being moved to Kirtland, Ohio.
And with every scandal that broke out that we've discussed over this series and so many
more problems, Joseph Smith was unable to retain control of his Kirtland church and
he was removed to Missouri where he found a large population of Mormons that were more
sympathetic to the leadership out there than to his leadership.
So he excommunicated the Missouri leadership and basically made this naked power grab to
retain control of the Missouri stake.
And with that, he needed to forcibly remove those who were excommunicated and did so by
signing this Danite manifesto and creating this faction of shadow enforcers, the Danites,
of which we have Dr. Samson of Vard.
We have Thomas B. Marsh.
We have Oren Porter Rockwell.
We have these dark and seedy figures who are longtime lifelong Mormons who join this underground
enforcement squad who are ready to do the profit spitting and whatever he says.
This is obviously very dangerous for the citizens in Missouri and there are some pressures.
We need to spend a little bit of time discussing and all this and a lot of those are political,
right?
I mean, we talked about the Gallatin election day brawl that happened August 6, 1838, where
the Missourians tried to stop the Mormons from voting because the Mormons voted as
a block.
They also retained all of their own economic control because they purchased and sold as
a block as well, which would mean that if the Mormons thought that one grocery store,
one Miller or one blacksmith was like they're approved of Miller, blacksmith or grocer, then
all the Mormons would give all of their money to that one individual and they would not
use their purchasing power to anybody else.
That gave the Mormons the force of controlling not only the politics, but also the economies
within these Missouri counties, which was wrestling control of these from the old citizens
in Missouri.
The political divide is much sharper than just Mormons versus non-Mormons.
It was also southern slave-owning Democrats versus progressive abolitionist Whigs, which
most of the Mormons came from northern states.
There are these larger ramifications of what to do with the direction of the country as
well as the more personal and economic pressures that are causing a lot of tension between
the Mormons and the Missourians.
Two more factors, just a dog pile on which you've already said.
One thing they were doing was specifically reaching out to slaves and Indians and teaching
them to read the Book of Mormon and the Bible, which was a huge no-no in a slave state.
They are saying, Missouri has been promised to us.
It's the promised land.
We know what happens to people who live on your promised land when you arrive there after
God's given it to you.
Certainly.
Yeah, those are important points.
Joe had designated Missouri as Zion as well as the Garden of Eden.
This is where it all started.
This is where it's all going to end.
He even knew the exact street location where the Garden of Eden was and where he touched
down in the second coming.
Yeah.
We need to introduce a couple of figures for today's understanding because we're going
to get through essentially the remainder of the Missouri Mormon War.
This is not talked about in very many history books because we typically understand wars
as long drawn out conflicts between large groups of people, usually lots of casualties,
lots of open battles.
This war was much more of a cold war with a couple of notable incidents as where there
were casualties.
This is the 1838 Mormon War in Missouri, and it's important to understand some of the
essential figures in all of this.
We have the governor of the state, Governor Lilburn Boggs.
It's notable as well.
Federal government had a lot less power than it does today in the 1830s.
Governors were essentially kings of states.
The states approved, ratified the Constitution, which created the federal government, but
states operated as their own sovereignty within the federal government, and governors
were the most powerful figures within each of these states.
We also have a couple of figures within the Missouri government that are notable, and
we need to discuss their factionary leanings.
We have people who are known as Jack Mormons.
They are people who are not Mormons, but who are friendly to the Mormons, or are Mormon
sympathizers, and those are Generals Atchison and Donovan.
Generals Atchison and General Donovan.
These two are figures within the Missouri militia who are friendly to the Mormons.
Just want to jump in real fast and say, today, the term Jack Mormon is generally understood
to be somebody who's an ex-Mormon, but still is sort of a Mormon in spirit, so slightly
different connotation today than it was then.
Sort of.
Jack Mormon is more known as somebody who is believing Mormon.
They believe in the church.
They follow the teachings of the church, but they also drink coffee or smoke cigarettes.
They don't hold really strong to any of the tenets of their religion, even though they
do retain belief in it.
So Jack Mormon is a term that was coined at this time to disparage people who were sympathetic
to the Mormons, but were not Mormons themselves.
So Generals Atchison and Donovan are Jack Mormons.
So as we dive into this, I'm really interested in seeing some visuals, and I think you have
some packaged up for us just to give our audience something to be prepared for, so I'm looking
forward to that.
Yeah.
And why don't we, so let's discuss two more figures here.
So we have members of the Missouri militia who are not sympathetic to the Mormons, who
are also antagonistic and aggressive towards the Mormons.
One of these is Samuel Bogart, Captain Samuel Bogart.
And he's not a great guy.
He really hates the Mormons, but he's also a commanding officer of the, of militia, Missouri
militia factions.
We also have Colonel Thomas Jennings.
And Colonel Thomas Jennings is a figure that we're going to discuss when we get into the
Hans Mill Massacre.
He was somebody who had also retained a fair amount of control over Missouri militias.
Now these are figures who, they were commissioned officers of the Missouri militia, but they
were also citizens of these counties.
Therefore, they were not impartial to this conflict, which really makes this much harder,
especially when we get into the legal aftermath of what happened in this entire conflict.
You can't have anybody who was an impartial observer to determine what's the best course
of action is here.
And that goes all the way up to Governor Lilburn Boggs, who was Lieutenant Governor when the
Mormons were kicked out of Jackson County back in 1833.
He was affected by the Mormons.
He didn't like them from, you know, five years before this Cold War had broken out.
So there, there are a lot of vested interests.
Nobody doesn't have skin in this game.
The Missourians want to live their lives without being infringed upon by this, this radical
and progressive Mormonite sect.
The Mormons want to live their life following the prophet and doing what he says and not
be, have their lives imposed upon by the old Missouri citizens.
And unfortunately these, this is an unstoppable force of the growth of the Mormon movement,
meeting an immovable object of the old citizens slave holding Missouri.
So all these figures are really important to note.
And now I want to share my screen.
And this is going, we're going to discuss kind of the general geography of this area.
It's kind of a small map, but this, this gives us a basic an opportunity to understand what
this all looks like.
So we have here in Missouri, this is our Missouri River here.
And the Mormons had been granted Caldwell County as part of the agreement of them being
removed from Jackson County.
Caldwell County was essentially created as a Mormon County for the Mormons to settle.
And the Missouri leadership had been granted basically, you know, a part of the armistice
that they would reduce tensions in 1833.
You get Caldwell County.
That's Mormon County, Missouri.
Just don't settle outside of Caldwell County and you're good.
Well, Joe gets out there.
Yeah, exactly. Joe gets out there and he starts sending his Mormons to settle in
Davies County, which was created in 1836 Livingston County, Carroll County,
Ray County, Clay County, and Clinton County a little bit here in Clinton.
So all of these counties now have Mormons spreading out in all directions and beginning
to settle.
And to be fair, in Davies County, we can see Adam on the almond, which is the site where
of the Garden of Eden where Adam sacrificed unto the Lord, I believe, or was it Abraham?
That was, so the Garden of Eden was in Jackson County, Missouri.
When Adam and Eve were expelled from the Garden of Eden, Adam on Diamond is where they
begin to settle, I guess, where the cradle of humanity was here in Adam on Diamond.
Davies County, Missouri.
That's right.
That's right.
So we have here, Adam on Diamond up here in Davies County and Far West Caldwell County.
These are the twin Mormon strongholds.
These are the largest Mormon cities.
They're quite sizable.
Far West is larger than Adam on Diamond with a settlement about about two and a half to
3,000 Mormons living there.
Adam on Diamond has about a thousand Mormons, and then Mormons are all over in settlements
all around here in these nearby counties.
So Joe sends all of his Mormons to go settle all these areas in violating those treaties
and agreements that had been arrived to five years prior, which just increases the tensions,
of course.
So one thing that's really notable in this as well, the safety of the Mormons and their
ability to make it through the winter of 1838 was a constant pressure on Joseph Smith and
Sidney Rigton, right?
Most of the Mormons who, you know, who followed Joseph Smith from Kirtland to Missouri,
when he was basically excommunicated from his own church there, they were coming to
Missouri with nothing, and the systems that the Missouri settlements had, the Mormon
Missouri settlements had, were already strained with the destitute Mormon populations there.
So an influx of hundreds of new followers coming in with nothing puts even greater strain on all
of the resources out there, and they didn't arrive early enough to put crops in the ground.
So there weren't enough jobs, there wasn't enough food to sustain them, and there's the
increasing pressure from the Missourians that are pushing on the Mormons to do something, to act.
So these forces are also causing Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigton to be much more militant, which
we discussed that last episode with the Red Sermon, you know, it will be between us and them
a war of extermination. We'll make it one gore of blood from the Rocky Mountains to the Missouri,
or the Mississippi. This rhetoric is piling up because of all of these pressures,
and well, eventually war has to break out in all of this.
And it does. And it does. So the brawl at Gallatin election that kind of sets off the powder cake,
and General Atchison here is one of the Mormon sympathizers, he understands that tensions are
boiling out of control, and that the militia isn't going to settle this, that this is just going to
force the Mormons to raise their own militias to combat the Missouri militias. So General Atchison
sends a letter to the governor, Governor Lilburn Boggs, and says, you need to get down here right
now and handle this personally. You need to attend to these matters right now, because this
shit is spiraling out of control. If you don't do something about this very soon, we're going to
have a lot of blood on our hands, and this is going to make us all look stupid. Lilburn Boggs
ignored the plea. And those that wasn't just one plea that General Atchison sent to Governor
Lilburn Boggs, the first one he sent was in, it was like August 9th or August 10th, you know,
right after he got word of the Gallatin election day fight. And he sent multiple petitions to the
governor after that point, saying you need to come down here and handle matters personally,
because without the force of the, you know, the office of the governor behind what I'm trying to
tell the Mormons, they're never going to believe me, they're never going to comply, and this is
going to spiral out of control. And many historians put the fault at Lilburn Boggs's feet for what
transpired in Missouri, because he refused to attend to the matters personally. He just stayed in
his office and he acted on incomplete information. And that was a problem with the rest of the events
of 1838. So, after the Gallatin election day fight in Davies County, and Gallatin is just,
you know, the neighboring city to Adam on Diamond, you know, one of the Mormon strongholds, the Mormons
are able to gain power and a Mormon is elected to the, to the government office. I can't remember
for the justice of the peace or Congress or something to that effect, but the Mormons
of voting block turned over to John Coral. The power of the Mormon voting block was for once
actually realized. And John Coral here became a member of the government. And now he could
officially in his official capacity enforce the Mormon will at the government level,
which the Mormons had not been able to do prior to John Coral being elected.
So the Missourians retaliated. And what they did is they headed to Carroll County
to a strategic location known as Dewitt. And Dewitt here, it's right at the mouth of the,
right at this point of the Missouri River. And it intersects with, yeah, the Grand River.
So this is a strategic point, really important for commerce, obviously, the confluence of two
rivers. So the Mormons who were settled in Dewitt, it was about 70 families of Mormons
were settled there. The Missourians came in and chased them out. And violently,
force, they disarmed the Mormons and they ripped them out of their homes.
They looted all of their property, they burned the homes down, and the Mormons were removed
from Dewitt. That was the largest settlement in Carroll County. So all that the Mormons could
do was flee to Far West, which consolidated the number of Mormons in Far West. It increased
the numbers there. That's going to continue to be a constant pressure. And this happens in,
I think, mid-August is when this, when they were, no, sorry, this is mid-September when the Mormons
are kicked out of Dewitt. And this obviously escalates the tensions even more. So the Mormons
respond to this. And they are understanding that by September, this is harvesting season.
The Mormons don't have enough provisions to get through the winter. And when you have a population
of people who are on the precipice of starving, who have been fed this militant rhetoric for months
now, and who have been, there are problems and that the Missourians are mobs, that they are,
that they are led by the adversary, that they are evil, trying to stifle the growth of the
Empire of God. The Mormons respond with that rhetoric. And because the Mormons were kicked
out of Carroll County by their houses being burned down and their people being disarmed,
the Mormons do the same in Davies County to the Missouri citizens. So these Mormons,
they send out groups of hundreds of soldiers. And these, they are led by Danite commanders.
This is Joe's shadow enforcement squad leading the Army of Israel, leading these Mormons in armed
attacks in towns all over Davies County. And the Mormons in turn clear out Davies County
from the Missourians by disarming the Missourians, knocking down their doors, looting their houses,
pillaging their stores, burning everything to the ground, and taking all of the material,
everything that they loot to the Bishop's storehouse in Adam on Diamond. So they're consolidating all
of the county's resources, Mormon and non-Mormon resources into the Bishop's storehouse in preparation
for the coming war and the coming winter of 1838. Obviously, that's bad. It's bad.
And it's not like no one could have seen this coming either. It's like,
no, they showed up and started talking and publishing their speeches and sermons in
newspapers. The Missourians knew that this day was going to come. And yeah, it's just, it's
so ugly and so obvious and inevitable. It's, yeah, it's shocking.
Yeah, this is when actions match rhetoric. We see rhetoric all around us every day. And
we're in an election year right now and we see rhetoric from all over the place coming at us
from all directions and propagated about immediately. But the same kind of militant
rhetoric was being spouted by Mormon leaders as well as Missouri militia leaders. And that was
rhetoric that was published in, you know, newspapers, publications. That was rhetoric that was finding its
way to Governor Luburn Boggs's office. And he was acting on that rhetoric. And it was rhetoric from
the Mormon leaders as well who were publishing through their newspapers. And then, you know,
that's at the high level that the rhetoric spreads out far and wide. But then also the
conversations that people are having over dinner or at the local tavern and bar,
it's just fueling the populations to see each other as enemies. And this, like you said, David,
this was inevitable. This was going to happen. Eventually, actions will need rhetoric, which
shows us the dangers of rhetoric like this. So this is what we know as the Mormon depredations.
They coursed throughout the entire county of Davies and they sacked all the non-Mormon settlements
and set them all on fire and stole all the provisions, stole Hawks and cattle. This basically
put the Mormons in a state of open defiance. And we can argue about whether their retaliatory actions
are who's responsible, who hit who first. But at the end of the day, it doesn't really matter,
because the Missourians were so against the Mormons to begin with. And then this Mormon
aggression is only going to amplify those sentiments. And that goes for the militia
commanders. That goes for the governor himself. And that goes for the Mormon leadership.
Everybody is playing into this. And this is just one more step towards a path of escalation.
Right. These were not Quakers coming down to settle in Missouri. These are people who thought
God has given us this land. You guys are all Canaanites now. Yeah.
Yeah, exactly. So we have the generals Atchison and Donovan who are sending letters to Governor
Boggs. Come down here and handle this. We're going to have blood on our hands. Handle this
personally. You can't just handle this by your militia leaders. The militia is just going to
exacerbate this problem. And Lubren Boggs responds with silence. And he instead decides to handle
matters through his militia commanders, which, you know, it's adding more fuel to this fire.
So generals Atchison and Donovan are also advising Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon,
like you have to work to deescalate this. You can't be responsible for going, you know,
sending your boys out to burn and pillage the local sediments. Joe and Rigdon's response.
Oh, that was the Missourians who burned their own houses down so that they could blame us.
Fake news. Fake news. That was exactly right. So all of this is transpiring. And all of this
information is making its way back to Lubren Boggs. And he's, you know, everybody's looking at him
like, what are you going to do about this? This is your state, your king of the state.
What are you going to do to stop the Mormons from doing what they're doing?
And, you know, he's got an election coming up soon. And this, you know, it's, it's important
for him to look good in this election and to pander to his constituents. So we can't,
we can't ignore that fact as well that he, you know, Boggs was also playing a game of politics
in all of this. And it's notable as well that after he, you know, was unceded as governor,
he ran for state Senate. Like he was using his handling of the Missouri Mormon War
as a selling point to run for state senator. So that's super notable as well.
So he gets all this information back and there's just, there's little skirmishes going on as well,
little fights, you know, brawls going on, kind of like Gallatin, nothing at that level where it's,
you know, 100 guys who are fighting back and forth, but little brawls, little skirmishes,
little tavern fights, you know, more settlements are being burned Mormon and non Mormon settlements
is just continuing this cycle of escalation. And eventually, Luburn Boggs sends out Captain
Samuel Bogart to go and, and let me verify that real quick. I'm sorry, in Ray County. So he is
tasked with patrolling a swath of land in Ray County. But Luburn Boggs gave him the direction to
not cross across the county lines into Caldwell County, that's Mormon County, right? So I'm going
to pull up our map again here to get proper visual on this. So Samuel Bogart is patrolling
of this swath of land right here in Ray County. And this is, this is, you know, Crooked River
right here. Samuel Bogart had specific directions to not cross into Caldwell County, because that
would be an escalation that the Mormons would perceive as further aggression and justify
an action. Rex, can you briefly explain what Bunkham Strip is? Is that like the Romulan neutral
zone for the Mormon? More or less. So Bunkham Strip is basically where he was directly patrolling
right here. It's this swath of land that's like, it's like one mile wide north to east to west
and like along north to south along Crooked River here. So he was patrolling this. And what he was
doing was disarming Mormons. When he would find Mormons, he would, he would disarm them and tell
them that they need to get out of Ray County. This is not your county. Further consolidating
Mormons into far west up here near Shull Creek, right? So the Mormons find out that Captain Samuel
Bogart has now taken three Mormons as prisoners. And this is going to be pretty important because
the Mormons understand, you know, because of the rhetoric that the leaders have been saying,
that these prisoners are probably going to be executed. So David W. Patton, a Mormon general,
or he was known as Captain Fearnot because he was ruthless in battle. He gathers together 200
Danites. Well, you know, Danites are militiamen from the Mormons. The lines are kind of
We should say that, yeah, it's a very hazy who a Danite is who all these secret societies and
enforcer groups had different names and it's, and they were denied that they existed. And so it's
very hard to tell in hindsight, you know, but we'll call them Danites for ease of handling.
Let me ask you this before we get into that, Bryce, are these Danites that he's gathering
actual badasses by this time? Because the first round of the thousand men that were hiking,
that didn't turn, they had their tail between their legs, it seemed, I'm not going to say they
weren't fighters, but it didn't sound like warriors. At this time, this guy sounds like
they found a guy who's seen death and isn't ashamed of putting a knife in someone's gut,
so to speak, or a bullet in someone's head. That's correct. Yeah. So the members,
the Danites were now matching the rhetoric that the leadership was spewing. Whereas that was not
the case in Zion's camp, because Zion's camp was ill advised and a terrible idea from its
conception to its execution. The Danites were there as a standing shadow enforcer squad. And
notably Lyman White, who was a good friend of Joseph Smith, he was declared a general,
general Lyman White. He had actual military experience. In fact, he was one of the few
Mormon leadership who had any military experience whatsoever, from one of the the Native Wars,
I believe. So General Lyman White in all of this is using his military
knowledge to make the Mormons more effective at being actual soldiers instead of just dudes
walking around with guns. And David Patton is, you know, one of Lyman White's best friends.
These guys are very militaristic. And David Patton is, you know, given this name Captain
Fearnaught, because he is so ruthless and excited to march in the battle. So Captain Samuel Bogart
is camped out on Crooked River with these three Mormon prisoners. And Captain Fearnaught is under
the, you know, David Patton is under the impression that these three Mormons are going to be executed
the next morning for committing treason, because they were they were a rebel faction, they were a
rebel militia within the state, you know, the boundaries of a, you know, a state that already
has a state sanctioned militia. It's a fair call. Yeah, it's fair. That's absolutely fair.
So David Patton gathers together 200 of his men. And in the middle of the night,
they attack Samuel Bogart's troops on Crooked River. And Bogart's troops weren't aware that
this was going to happen. So they were all caught by surprise. And it's like three, four in the morning,
right? It's too dark to see what's going on. And they just hear shots from the, from the woods.
And they hear a guy yell out, what is it, liberty, life and liberty, I think, which was the war cry
of the Danites. And that was David Patton. So he hollows out, hanging out of the woods and assault
Samuel Bogart's troops on Crooked River. And this has a few effects, because the Mormons were
equipped with swords and ready to go. But Samuel Bogart's men, they have their muskets and they
don't have swords. So Samuel Bogart's men, they fire the first salvo. And the Mormons don't stop.
And in that first salvo, three men are actually struck with with Bogart's men's bullets. But the
Mormons continued the assault and they rush into the camp. And this causes Samuel Bogart's men to
scatter in every direction to flee across the water. And that has a couple of effects. So
one guy, one of the, a guy named Moses Rowland was a member of Bogart's troops. He was shot and
killed. Three Mormons ended up getting shot and dying in all of this. David Patton, Captain
Fearnot himself was one of the men who was shot. He was shot multiple times in center mass. And he
was taken to a nearby cabin where he died the next morning. But there was another man who was a
member of the Missouri militia who was mutilated, but was allowed to survive. The Mormons basically
cut off his jaw, stabbed him repeatedly, and gave him like a Chelsea grin, chopped open his
jaw and ripped off the bottom half of it. It was a bloody and disgusting battle. So all of Samuel
Bogart's men are fleeing in all directions, looking at the carnage behind them, seeing bodies lying on
the ground. The three Mormon prisoners are released from, from their imprisonment. And
this sends all of these guys in all directions throughout Ray County, going to all of the nearby
non-Mormon settlements, telling them that the Mormons just attacked and killed every one of
their guys, that they were the only survivors. So as some men are trickling into other towns and
some towns around here and there, all of them are saying that all of our guys died, when in reality
only one actually died and another was very badly mutilated and almost mortally wounded.
And it's terrible to laugh, but what a perfect storm of, of misinformation, not, not intentionally
misinformation, but it's like, and I'm the only survivor and you've got 20 people, you know,
20 different areas that happen to you. Exactly. But that does have the effect of all of the, the,
the people coming back. Immediately, they start sending letters to Lilburn Boggs like,
the Mormons just attacked us. They just killed the Samuel Bogart's men. We don't know what happened
to them. You got to, you got to send more men. You got to get your, your men out here to, to deal
with this because the Mormons are just murdering all of us, right? So that, like you can't quantify
the pressures that that puts on everybody to act in all of this. And is this September, October
of 38? This September, late September. Late September. Yeah. Holy shit. Okay. So think about
this. This is, I don't know if you can call this the same. It might be equivalent to killing cops.
But in a sense, it's like, you just attacked a group of active duty military soldiers,
you know, who are able that are running this. Can you imagine what would happen today? Right?
Like, and they were more ruthless back then, of course. And you find Jaws missing off of people,
swords, like cutting people wide open and killing people. What would this do? What would, what kind
of reaction would be expected from the government or from those who are in power at this point?
This is really, you're asking for serious war, not just like Missourians. And we got a problem.
You're saying, bring it. That's crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's not, it's not the equivalent
of killing cops. It would be the equivalent of finding a patrolling group of National Guardsmen
and attacking them with superior forces. Like, yeah, it's not just cops. Like these are,
these are members of state sanctioned militia. This is the, this is the military. You're attacking
a band or a company of the military here. Yeah. There's a word for that. I forget.
Treason. Oh, yes. Yeah. Oh, treason. That's a great word for it. Why don't we just call it what it is?
This is treason. And this is murder, right? Like, the Mormons were committing murder on
state militiamen. That's really dangerous. So the Mormons also understand what's going on.
They see that they incurred heavier casualties in the Battle of Kirkland River
than the Missourians did. And they continue to escalate and amp up what's going on.
And they learn of a supply train that is traveling through Ray County, not too far from Kirkland
River. And this supply train has wagons full of guns and a cannon. And the Mormons raid the supply
train. They steal the wagons that have the guns as well as rations and provisions in it,
as well as the cannon. And they bring it back to far west in preparation for the siege
that they expect to be coming. So this is painting the Mormons in a very aggressive light.
They are the ones who are aggressively attacking a Missouri militia.
They are the ones who just raided a government arms supply train. They are the ones who are
attacking non-mormon settlements and burning them to the ground and looting all of the supplies
in the stores and the blacksmith shops and everything. The Mormons look like the aggressors
in all of this. But it's also, once again, it's kind of hard to say who swung first because
the Missourians were doing the same thing to the Mormons because the Missourians were also
walking into Mormon settlements and disarming the Mormons and burning their houses down.
This is guerrilla warfare. This is what is going on here.
So to be fair, the Missourians were there first. I'm just saying, just saying.
Fair. But yeah, but it gets ugly on both sides for sure.
Absolutely. Yeah, it's not, there's nothing good that's going through all of this. There's
nothing good that is happening and there is no good end result that will come out of all of this.
And also, everybody is to blame. Nobody is clear from blame in all of this. The Missouri
leadership, you know, Governor Lilburn Boggs is responsible for escalating this and for not
handling matters personally. Generals Atchison and Donovan, like they were the Jack Mormons who
were of the Missouri militia. They were, being the Mormons sympathizers that they were,
they were essentially neutered by Lilburn Boggs himself. In fact, he disbanded General Atchison's
own militia at the very end of October, which we're going to get to in a second here,
because Atchison wasn't complying with Governor Boggs's orders of removing the Mormons.
There were a lot of, there's a lot of blame going on around here. And Samuel Bogard, of course, is
he, he crossed into state lines against his or across county lines against his own orders,
which caused, you know, provoked the Mormon attack at Crooked River to begin with.
So nobody is free from blame in all of this. This is all everybody is making mistake after
mistake, which is causing the escalation. 100% agreed. I think that's the least you should take
away is look, everybody has some fault, including the Mormons. So any Mormon interest is like,
you know, we were innocent. We were innocent. You got your hands dirty. Didn't your Lord say
turn the other cheek? I mean, so here's the thing. What I find fascinating about this is
you guys just pointing this fact out before we move forward, because I know we need to move
forward. We've got 20 minutes left. Okay, guys, just to give you an idea how much time we have,
they wrote rhetoric that was well known from the people who are already settled there. Can you
imagine if your town, some guys come in and pretty much say, don't worry, these people here will no
longer be here soon. I'm telling you, I'm going to be ready. And I'm not going to like these people.
It's like, hold on, can't we all get along, figure something out? No. So they're already coming off
with a bad taste in their mouth of these people. It's not like they came in and said, is it okay
if we just stay over here? You know, sure, we can let you have that side of the creek or,
you know, whatever. But no, it's not like that. They want it all. In fact, it sounds like he wants
all of America, maybe even the world one day. Yeah. And those tensions that like this is an
extension of the tensions that have been existing since 1831 and 32 when the Mormons started
settling in Missouri in Jackson County in the first place. That like this is just the escalation
of all of it, right? After the Mormons settled in Caldwell, they were removed from Jackson County
in 1833 and they settled in Caldwell County. There was a brief period where they were letting
bygones be bygones where people were living in relative harmony. But Joe gets out there and he,
you know, he purges the Missouri leadership and then violates all of the treaties.
That's the next escalation. And he just, he, let's just say a lot of the, what happened here,
is all on Joseph Smith. For sure. It's a new record. And with 2020 hindsight, it's, as we're
listening and retelling these stories, I keep thinking, what could they have done? And really,
if the Mormons had just stayed in that county, turned it into little Utah,
maybe it would have been okay. Maybe. But I mean, the fact is they were setting up a theocracy
right here in America. And yeah, there's no easy answers on how to make that better.
Right. And the people didn't know the politicians didn't know the church leadership. They wanted,
I mean, there's a certain elitism that comes with belief in Mormonism. There's Catholicism,
then there's Protestantism. That's, you know, first and second degree. Mormonism is third degree,
right? It is, it is the PhD version of Christianity. So there's, there's an exceptionalism that comes
with the mentality of being a Mormon. And that is why the people were moved and swayed by the
word of Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, because they were the divine leaders. They were the people
who had the connection with God. They were the ones who spoke for God. And anything they said,
whether that was read your book of Mormon, or go raid this non-mormon settlement and
consecrate the property of the Gentiles as per written revelation, you comply with that because
it's God telling you to do those things. Yeah. And this is a brand new baby country,
frontier days, pioneer days. No one knows what America is going to look like in 10 years, let
alone 100 years. It's all there for the taking, you know? Yeah. And there are some other national
questions that are at the forefront too, which are going to play it much deeper into our discussion
once we get into the Navu era. American expansionism, what are we going to do with Oregon?
The Alamo just happened a couple of years ago. What are we going to do with the Republic of Texas?
There are some very large national questions about what America looks like, what states are
American states, and how do we run these states? What states are slave states and non-slave
northern states? How do we handle these conflicts? How do we handle these questions? America was far
from settled at this time. So that's a salient and important point that you make, David. There were
still so many questions about what America looks like. And America, the colonies were founded
on the concept of breaking away from religious theocracy. And now we have a religious theocrat
who was doing his best to absorb more power, to run his own sovereign county by dictatorial divine
fiat. That's presenting a lot of tendencies of theocracy that America was founded to break away
from, which caused a lot of tension, a lot of problems with a lot of people who were not big
fans of Catholicism. So, tensions continue to rise. Yeah, I was just going to say, what happens
next? You got people dead. I suspect someone escaped this battle and went and told, and people were
well informed of what just happened. It's time to do something about it. Yeah, so in all of this,
Lilburn Boggs is trying to run everything from his office via letters and militia officers.
And he is banding and disbanding militias as he sees fit in certain counties and certain locations
in order to try and quell this rebel uprising. And doing so very unsuccessfully because he's
getting information that is days or weeks old, right? It takes time for the information to travel
from what's going on in Caldwell County down to independence or down to Richmond or down to
wherever that these military or government headquarters are and where Lilburn Boggs is in
Jackson County. So, it's taken a lot of time for him to handle matters because he's doing it all
on, you know, on a delay. And once again, yeah, yeah. And once again, because he is not listening
to generals Adreson and Donovan, who are telling him, calm down here personally and handle this
shit. He's ignoring those petitions. He's not getting the newest information. He's not working
from a point of advantage that a governor needs to in order to quell a rebel uprising.
So, he's taken a hands-off approach to a lot of this. But then he receives word that the Mormons
attacked on Crooked River, that they raided a supply train, that they had burned Millport,
that the Mormon depredations had occurred, that the Mormons had raided a government supply
train of arms and a cannon. They now had stolen a government-issued cannon.
He's getting word of all these things in the Battle of Crooked River, and he issues an order
to gather 2,500 militiamen to enter Caldwell County and surround Far West, which outnumbers the
Mormon forces as far as he is aware. But then, a couple of crucial figures within the Danites
defect, and they go down to independence and they file some affidavits. And now, David,
tell us a bit about Dr. Samson Avard here. Samson Avard, who, as we know from last episode,
was a total badass and was happy to kill anybody who even talked smack about
Joseph Smith at all. When push comes to shove, Samson actually turns state witness on
Joseph. And give me a second. Let me find it.
Pulling from the tome of wisdom, the Kling Heritage Guide to Western Religion, book one,
The Mormons. Exactly, the very same, the very same. Yeah, this is after what I thought we were
going to go to today. Okay, in fact, maybe we should hold off because this happens.
Hold off on that?
Yeah, because the courtroom inquiry is after the thing that we wanted to end on a...
Okay, okay, that's fair. Yeah, let's go back to this, Eric.
Yeah, so the order that is putting together these militias, that's the extermination order.
I just want to be very clear about that.
Not quite, not quite. So Lilburn Boggs had issued the order to get 2,500 militiamen too far west.
But then Thomas B. Marsh, Dr. Samson Avard, and Orson Hyde, who was, you know, two of these
guys, Thomas Marsh and Orson Hyde, are apostles, you know, Joe's 12 apostles. These are two of
his closest advisors. All three of these guys defect and they go to Lilburn Boggs and hold a
meeting with him and sign affidavits that the Mormons have a Danite squad, that they have a
Shadow Enforcer squad. So in response to this, Governor Boggs writes the infamous Mormon extermination
order. And why don't you tell us about that, David? And I have the text of it here if we want to read it.
Gotcha, I may jump on that because I'm going straight from this to what happens next. But
basically, as you said, for five years he sits on his butt and does nothing. Now he gets this news
that, oh, it's Civil War right here and happening enough. And the order is that Mormons should be
treated as enemies to be exterminated or driven from the state. And right on cue, three days later,
something happens. But let's read that. Actually, Derek, how much time do we have to
get to the next thing? We've got 10 minutes. And I was going to say, Bryce, if you don't mind,
can you pull it up or is it something that you have to read out of the book? Because I would
love to see a visual of what this guy says in rights or whatever, if that's something you can do.
Let me pull it up here. Basically, I just want to go from a view of that and then we'll just say
three days later. That's released on October 27. Three days later, this happens and then jump into
that. That's correct. Yeah. So here's the actual handwritten order that you can see on the screen.
And let me read it real quick. It says, it is titled to General John B. Clark, who is a member
of the Missouri Militia. And it says, sir, since the order of this morning to you, directing you to
cause 400 mountain men to be raised within your division, I received by Amos Resisquire of Ray
County and so on and so forth, information of the most appalling character, which entirely changes
the face of things and places the Mormons in the attitude of an open and a vowed defiance of the
laws and of having made war upon the people of this state. Your orders are therefore to hasten
your operation with all possible speed. The Mormons must be treated as enemies and must be
exterminated or driven from the state if necessary for the public peace. Their outrages are beyond
all description. If you can increase your force, you are authorized to do so to any extent you may
consider necessary. And he talks about just some other incidental details about people he's ordered,
you know, General Willock, General Donovan from these other counties and the numbers of men that
he's commanding out there and they've been ordered, this whole force will be placed under your command.
This is executive order number 44 also colloquially referred to as the Mormon extermination order.
That's dated October 27th and three days later, it gets real. It does, right. So let's talk about
it getting real, right, because now let's first define what he means by an extermination order.
An extermination order is not an order to kill every Mormon. And Mormon apologists will say that
it was legal to murder Mormons because of the extermination order. No, that's a lie. That's
just a lie. In no point in that order does it say you can murder Mormons or that it is now
legal to murder Mormons. It says they are to be exterminated. And that's not the way that you
would exterminate a rat infestation by murdering Alden. That's the way that you would, in the
definition of the day, exterminate Indians or atheists. People that you don't want, it just
means that you can now forcibly remove them from their settlements. That's a very important
distinction to make. Yeah. Yeah. So this was... Nonetheless, yeah. Nonetheless, right. This was
in effect until 1976 when Governor at that point rescinded the order because the RLDS church said,
hey, we're doing good stuff around here. We built an orphanage and some, you know, a hospital. Can
you just, you know, take that order off of the books? That'd be real nice of you. So this order
is issued and General John B. Clark is put in command of all of the state militias to put this
order into effect. Well, at the same time, once this is essentially propagated, we have various
militias who now see this as licensed to do whatever is necessary to get the Mormons out.
And there's dispute about whether... Well, let's talk about Colonel Thomas Jennings now. Thomas
Jennings was one of these guys. He's a lot like Samuel Bogart, hates the Mormons, can't wait to
get a chance to shoot at some Mormons. He's a bad guy and, you know, a Missouri citizen who hates
the Mormons, who has hated them for half a decade by this point. There's dispute about whether or
not he received word of the Mormon extermination order before what he did or he didn't. But this
led to his men, about 250, 240, 250 men marching on a little Mormon settlement
that is known as Hans Mill. And this is on Shull Creek. So let me pull this up as well. So you
can see our handy-dandy map again. And here we have... This is Caldwell County right here, right?
So here is Far West. This is the Mormon settlement.
A few miles away from Hans Mill.
That's correct. So this is Hans Mill. This is the Shull Creek. And this is, fun little fact,
my great, great, great grandparents were camped out right here, about three miles outside of
Hans Mill on the morning of October 30th, 1838.
Wow. And they'd just been three miles closer. You would not be here to have this discussion.
I would not be here to have this discussion. I may not. Yeah. So David, tell us about what
happened on the morning of October 30th, 1838. So on that Mormon, that Mormon,
on that morning, the Mormon settlers were surprised to see suddenly over the ridge
200-plus militiamen with guns looking at them, pointing at them, and then shooting at them
without any prelude, any warning, just open fire.
They trapped the defenders. Oh, of course, the commander of the Mormons immediately raised
his hat and tried to surrender without a fight. They kept shooting.
People who were running for the trees, they kept shooting that women, children,
kept shooting them. They boxed in two, they boxed in a group of defenders by 18 people in the
blacksmith's shop. Though it was more a roof with lots of poles, rather than walled off,
because they were able to shoot them like fish in a barrel.
So yeah, just a quick expounding on that detail, right? So it is a log cabin, but the logs
are spaced far enough apart, because it was makeshift. They built it that year.
It was a blacksmith's shop next to the actual mill at Han's Mill. The space was large enough
to admit gun barrels into the blacksmith's shop. Exactly. And in fact, they march at point blank
and are shooting through the gaps in the logs. It's so vulnerable. After they shot every Mormon
they could see, they moved into the shop to finish off the wounded. I'll just read from this fascinating
book that I like so much. When one old man surrendered his gun, a militia man proceeded
to hack him to pieces with a corn cutter. And shot him with his own gun as well, Thomas Bride.
A nine-year-old boy was caught hiding under the bellows. His younger brother shot in the hip
and playing dead. Heard them drag him from out under the bellows and he begged for his life.
When one man said, don't shoot, it's just a boy. The other coolly replied, nits will make lice and
shot the boy in the head. Point blank. A nine-year-old. Of the three men and boys in the
entire settlement, 17 were killed. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And when news of the massacre reached
Joseph in far west, it was joined by new hourly reports from his scouts that the opposing force
had doubled. No, tripled in size. And even while their loot they'd stolen, they were still desperate
for food and ammo and fuel and desperate and already outnumbered five to one by the government troops.
And within two days, the town would be under siege by 10,000 Missourians.
Apparently when Joseph got the news the next day of the massacre, he went into a huge black
depression because he'd been vacillating before between putting up a super huge fight or surrendering
and at this pretty much tipped the scales and he sent five of Mormon leaders
to go and plead for peace like a dog. Like a dog, that's a quote. Like a dog, his exact words.
Beg for, like a dog for peace. So that's the Hans Mill massacre. So anyone who doesn't know that's
the Hans Mill massacre, a brutal and disgusting affair. Yeah, and even today, Mormons still talk
about it. So they did that. They sent a delegation, five men, and they got some terms of surrender.
All Mormons would immediately leave Missouri. All Mormon property would be confiscated,
all arms surrendered, and the Mormon leaders would surrender to be tried for treason.
And while they mowed this over, the troops continued to be marching on the city.
When they were within 600 yards of the Mormon barricades, Joseph, Sidney Rigdon, Parley Pratt,
one of the missionaries, and other leaders, I think with five other leaders besides Joseph
Nicolabilly, including his brother, came forward under a white flag setting off a
jubilant roar of victory because war was over. Joseph and the others spent a miserable night
in the open, forced to endure rain and taunting their guards. And around midnight, the general
appeared to inform them that they were going to all be shot in the morning in the public square.
So they lived happily ever after the end. And then they were all shot in the square
and executed. That was the end of the war and end of Mormonism.
This is one of the craziest things I've, I honestly have never, I didn't even know this was
part of this. I couldn't imagine when we started talking about him wanting to be president,
all this stuff. Like you can't imagine that this was going to happen this way. So
this is not even the craziest yet. We haven't even gotten to what's going to be coming. So this is
bad. Don't get me wrong. I mean, that's horrible. But I'm just saying, like, I can't imagine what's
coming and we have come upon our hour and, you know, happily ever after. So with that being said,
gentlemen, we have to stick a fork in this and we will come back. Is there anything you guys would
like to say before we close out this episode? I just want to say, like, what we are witnessing
with Joseph Smith is a lot of really hard lessons. He had told the Mormons who were
settled at Hans Mill. I was about 70 to 80 families there. Get out. Get out. It's not safe.
He told them to get out. But they didn't have another mill in that area that they could use.
So it was a paramount for the Mormons to defend that location, Hans Mill.
And they said that we can defend it. We'll be okay. And he said, okay, then do what you will.
And they suffered for it. And that's, you know, if you're a prophet of God, this is your consecrated
land. This is your holy land. And, you know, 20 of your soldiers just got murdered there.
Your settlement, your city is now surrounded by, you know, over 2,500 militiamen and a number of
citizens who are not commissioned actual militia, stationation militiamen who are
during these militiamen to just go in and sweep out the city to murder every Mormon,
to just be done away with the Mormon problem. And then you receive word that Governor Lilburn
Boggs just signed an order that you can no longer live in this state. These are a lot of very,
very hard lessons. And now, Joseph Smith along with five other men are in the custody of
Samuel Lucas, a state militiamen officer who is a vicious, rabid anti-Mormon.
They're in his camp and they're sentenced to be executed the next morning. These are really hard
lessons. And Joseph Smith, we will see how the pattern of, you know, a dislikable protagonist's
journey, the hero's journey is replete through stumbles and problems and missteps and massive
mistakes and him learning from those to safeguard from ever making those mistakes again. I would
argue that should Joseph Smith die in 1838 right here, the three of us wouldn't have nothing to
talk about today. Yeah, yeah, I think so too. Interesting fun fact, as we're taping this show
today, it's October 27th, this week is the 182nd anniversary of the Huns Mill Massacre, which was
on August 12th. Ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description right now. Check out these
these gentlemen's podcasts, their books, their Patreon. Both of them have a Patreon. You can
help support them, support what they're doing and educating further that people can come out of
these things. And if you know someone who might be sitting on the fence or they're wondering what
Mormon history might be like, send them this series. We really love you guys. Thank you so
much for tuning in. Let us know what you think down in the comment section. This is getting crazy.
I love these gentlemen. They're brilliant and they're just so witty and they are being fair. I
mean, guys, they admit, you know, they're not just saying all the Mormons is tomorrow and that.
Yeah, they're crazy. We get it. But there's some crazy stuff going on here. You have the state now
coming and militia coming in against them. And now they're killing little nine year olds. There's
crazy stuff going on. Stay tuned. I know you don't want to miss what's next. And don't forget,
we are MythVision.
