Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Welcome back to the show, guys.
Early Mormon history with Bryce Blankenagel, and he is the straight Mormon history communicator.
He hosts Naked Mormon Podcast, guys.
I don't want to give you all the stuff, but you can tell he knows a thing or two because
you've seen a thing or two.
And then we also have David Fitzgerald, author of many books.
And one of them is the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion and the Mormons.
Got to get it because it's obviously the topic of this subject at hand.
Guys, this has been such a fascinating show so far so far.
And we're scratching the surface.
I think we're going right now and we have our goggles.
We're looking below the water.
We see how big this iceberg is, and we're about to actually take a chip out of it
and start looking deep into this thing.
So last episode, we ended he is having these translator
having to fix all these problems in the Book of Mormon.
They're printing, pressing this book that has errors to correct the problems
and having to print it again because God's with them.
And people are already making parodies of the Book of Mormon.
That's you know, I was looking for I was Googling, trying to search that
to try and find images and stuff.
And it is very difficult to find anything on that.
So yep.
Yep. Search for Obadiah Dogberry.
That that will guess why what you seek.
So with that being said, Bryce, if you would start us out and David and Bryce
are going to take us into the Kirkland area era.
Sorry. And this is going to be interesting.
I have no clue what you're talking about.
So thank you.
So before we started recording this, I started in on a rant about
like my favorite era of Mormon history.
And I was like, you know, I got to save it.
And the reason why is like there are specific eras of Joseph Smith's Mormon
history, right? There is the New York era where he started everything,
where he got the book published, where he's doing all the treasure digging and
everything. Then there's the Kirtland era.
And that's where he kind of prototypes a lot of stuff.
But then there's the Missouri era.
And that's where he becomes, you know, the war Lord Joseph Smith.
And then finally, the Nauvoo era where he is, he's a theocrat.
He is he's a dictator.
And I got to say, it's kind of like picking my favorite kid, but, you know,
I don't have kids, so I can I can do that if I want.
But Kirtland is my favorite for so many reasons, mostly because it's so campy
and it's fun and it's hilarious.
And we get to see Joseph Smith prototyping
later theological evolutions and structural and organizational
patterns in his church in the Kirtland era that later evolved and adapted to grow
and to control a larger and larger swath of people.
So we get to see in Kirtland the earliest days of Joe's theocratic tendencies.
And it's just so much fun.
It is because it's you can see all the patterns for things that are about to
come and how it's going to get very, very ugly.
But now we're still kind of the honeymoon phase of early Mormonism.
Before it all goes this way.
So let me let me I'm going to do my best to keep these guys
as focused on the mission as possible, even though I don't know the context of a lot
of the stuff, because they are rabbit trail men.
These guys hunt rabbits all day long.
And, you know, they warned me before the show that like, dude, you're going to have
to really snap us back to keep us on track.
And I just want to make mention to recall everybody who's watching the series
that you guys said a church of Christ minister like is convinced.
And now they're starting churches.
So now we have churches coming on the scene.
And I think that's around around the time when we left off.
I mean, you got a couple hundred people, some of them are rich in this congregation
that they're willing to milk and maybe make some money out of this.
So maybe that kind of gives us somewhere to start on the Kirkland thing.
That's perfect.
Actually, that's that's exactly where we need to begin with all of this,
because you know, Joseph Smith, this is something that we discussed extensively
last episode was like Joseph Smith had an innate ability to identify a wealthy
person and mark them and begin to to do whatever was necessary to get them
to give their resources to him.
In February, 1831, Joseph Smith and Emma Smith went to Kirtland.
That's when they arrived in Kirtland, Ohio, which is just a little bit south
of the Great Lakes.
And Kirtland is an interesting town because it's not an actual coastal town
of Lake Superior, I believe it is Lake Erie.
It's one of the one of the five Great Lakes.
But it is it was it's about 20 miles south.
And it is basically a trading hub that was also a logging town and a farming town.
And it was it was a burgeoning, growing town with rapid expansion.
So this is the first place that Joseph Smith went.
This is the home or this is the store of Newell K. Whitney.
Newell K. Whitney was the wealthiest man in town.
He owned this trading post, this this relatively large business.
And the building that stands today for not mistaken, it's not even a recreation.
It's the original building and it's owned by the church and run by missionaries.
And you can visit Kirtland and get the story of who Newell K. Whitney is and talk
to the missionaries and hear about everything that went on in Kirtland.
So Joseph and Emma arrive in Kirtland, Ohio.
And the first thing that Joseph does is he walks into this store and meets the owner,
Newell K. Whitney.
And he says, let me find this because it's a it's a very important quote.
He says, thou art the man.
And Newell, this is an article from D.
Michael Quinn, historian of the church in 1978.
Thou art the man Newell protested that he did not know this stranger.
Then heard life changing words.
I am Joseph the prophet.
You prayed me here.
Now, what do you want of me?
That's awesome.
So the thing is, Joseph was had an incredible ability to pack
so much into everything he said.
And this was all predicated on the concept that Newell K.
Whitney was a seeker.
He was looking for the truth.
And Sidney Rigdon, who we talked about last episode, who went out to New York to
meet Joseph Smith after he was baptized by the first missionaries.
Sidney Rigdon was the pastor, the preacher who was had baptized Newell K.
Whitney originally, but it could be argued that Sidney Rigdon was basically
preparing his congregants, about 200 people in the Kirtland area to receive
Mormonism and then Newell K. Whitney was one of these people who was seeking
the one true religion and Sidney Rigdon, you know, we're going to have to talk
a little bit more about Sidney Rigdon in all of this because he's such
a foundational piece in my podcast, I call him Hinge Pin Sidney Rigdon because
the success of the church hinged on this guy, right?
But, you know, Newell K. Whitney was one of his most wealthiest parishioners.
And I would argue that Sidney Rigdon had told Joseph Smith all about Newell K.
Whitney and Newell K. Whitney was looking for the correct religion.
So Joseph walks into town and says, you've prayed me here.
What do you want of me?
It's it's the same thing that he did with with Martin Harris was like, God told me
the first honest man would give me $50, right?
It's it's a calculated language.
It's practiced.
He's honed these skills for four years.
And, you know, this is his next mark.
Do we have time to get into a little bit
of Sidney Rigdon's backstory before we go a little further?
Because that's very interesting.
It's very interesting that he was a what
called the Campbellite Baptist minister.
But shortly before he became converted to Mormonism,
he was having fights with his co-churchmen.
Well, his mentor Alexander Campbell was his mentor.
Yeah.
But it was things were not
peaceful on the home front for him.
And so the timing of this could not have been better.
He was an interesting dude.
There's our Sidney Rigdon.
Apparently, he was prone to spasms and nervous spells,
which he attributed to the Holy Spirit.
And that was one of the things that
first convinced him that Mormonism was true, according to his,
the way he put it, is that he fasted for a few days.
And then after about three days, he saw an angel
and was convinced that Mormon was the one true fate.
And when he brought his flock over,
they more than doubled the Mormon church's size overnight.
Right. Exactly.
He gave the he gave Joseph's church
the early Mormon membership injection that it needed to survive
to reach the critical mass, right?
Like any religion gets to a critical mass,
you add in a little bit of persecution complex and a charismatic leader.
You hit a certain number of members.
It can only grow from that time forward.
So without Sidney Rigdon's membership,
basically wholesale converting to Joseph's Miss Church,
Mormonism wouldn't be a thing today.
The success of the church literally hinged on this one guy.
David, should we
do a couple of minutes talking about spalding?
Sure.
Rabbit hole alert. Rabbit hole alert.
Yeah. Just just just.
Yeah, I don't know what it is.
If you would just spend this time to only tell us what it is and why.
And then and then push on because we can do an episode if our audience really wants
to hear controversial ideas and the theories that go into this.
Yeah.
We'll do an episode for them, but they have to let us know.
We've got to hear from you.
So that's fair.
I was going to say the same thing is that we can tell you what it is
and tell it.
It's one among many controversial theories about where the Book of Mormon got its
source material that fries you.
Right.
Take us by the hand.
OK, so we need to understand that the spalding theory exists.
We don't have to understand that the components that that go into the spalding
theory, but we need to understand that it exists because decisions were made in
for the rest of Joseph Smith's life based on the public's belief that the spalding
theory was true.
You know, what the spalding theory basically consists of is Sidney Rigdon
was basically stole a manuscript from a guy who died.
And the manuscript was awaiting publishing at a printing office,
printing office where Sidney Rigdon sold materials to to make books and that
during the liquidation sale of this printing press or this this press and
bookstore that Rigdon picked up this basically completed manuscript.
And he just added in theological elements to make it the Book of Mormon and then
met up with Joseph Smith in the early to mid 1820s and they worked together
to basically publish the Book of Mormon.
And Sidney Rigdon basically used Joseph Smith as a ghost, you know,
as a publisher to get his name scrubbed away from Solomon Spalding,
who actually wrote the manuscript.
So whether or not it's actually true.
And the thing is like we we could go into it.
You know, we're going to have to wait to see if listeners want to hear.
You know, viewers want to hear about the spalding theory because we could do three
hours on it or you can go to my Mormon stories interview.
Yeah. And I talked about this extensively on the Mormon Stories
podcast about what what it really means.
You can find on the Mormon Stories YouTube channel.
So, Bryce, real quick on that for our audience,
the the reason you're mentioning this and why we have to is it does play a vital
role in the history of Kirkland.
And that's pretty much why you felt you had to mention this.
Exactly, because whether or not it's true,
what really matters is that decisions were made, particularly in Kirland,
that were influenced by the public's belief that it was true.
Because the damage control of it was a real thing, regardless of.
Yeah, exactly.
So how it was actually discovered that there were possible connections that the
Book of Mormon was possibly plagiarized was some Mormon missionaries went to a
little town in Pennsylvania called Connie out Creek.
No, sorry, it's in Ohio, Connie out Creek.
And they were preaching from the Book of Mormon there.
And some of the citizens were like, that sounds like Spalding's book.
You know, he's been dead for 10 years, but that sounds like his writing.
They used they used to call him old come to pass.
And and so when that happened, a guy named
Phelassus Hurlbutt, who was one of the missionaries that was preaching to these people.
I know Phelassus Hurlbutt and he wasn't a doctor.
His name was Dr.
Phelassus Hurlbutt. It's it's so good, so good.
You can't make this stuff up.
You can't make it up. You can't make it up.
It's truth is stranger than fiction, right?
So Hurlbutt was the guy who all of the citizens were like, hey,
this sounds like old Spalding's work.
He went around to collect information and try to find a manuscript or a draft
of Spalding's manuscript in order to compare it to the Book of Mormon and say,
well, look, it's very clearly plagiarized.
And there were altercations between Joseph Smith and Phelassus Hurlbutt,
a physical altercation in which legal filings, illegal complaints were filed.
And Hurlbutt was thrown in jail for it.
And the overwhelming damage control that needed to be done wasn't effective enough
because all of this research that Hurlbutt collected was then sold to a publisher
named Iber D. Howe.
And Iber D. Howe published it in the first Mormon Exposé, the first book length,
the Mormon Exposé titled Mormonism Unveiled.
And I actually read through that book for for people who listen to on the Patreon
feed of my show, patreon.com slash naked Mormonism.
I read through that book, talked about him with my commentary about how trustworthy
the sources are about who the people were that were giving the affidavits.
So this guy collects all of this information.
This Exposé is published.
And from 1834 on, anyone who knew anything about Mormonism believed that
Sidney Rigdon stole Spaulding's manuscript and gave it to Joseph Smith.
That was the consensus.
I have to interject to say I would love to hear an episode on this.
And so any of our audience that wants to, please comment down below, let us know.
And don't forget, I mean, you mentioned your your your Patreon.
That's all down in the description.
So you guys can support these guys.
You can be part of buying the books, you know, getting the material.
It all helps make this possible.
There's not enough of this going on out there, in my opinion.
There's so much more pro Mormonism,
pro Christianity, pro, than there is guys who are picking this stuff apart.
And you guys do a vital role in that.
And I want to say this, David,
do you have a different position than our friend here, Bryce, on this topic?
And I'm not saying to get into it, but yeah, I don't want to get into it now.
But I just.
Yeah, let's let's not get into it.
But I am more suspicious of the story.
Jerry, yeah, throw down David.
Let's do it.
Yeah, I'm not prepared to fully go into it too.
But right now, but I have to reread the Tanner book on did Spauley write
the Book of Mormon before I could even speak coherently on the subject.
But it just whatever whatever route we take, there's so much more.
It's gnarlier and wiggier than we suspect.
Just like the Bible itself, its origins get strange and twisted really quickly.
Thank you, you go.
Yeah, so, you know, we'll have to maybe save it for later if that's what the
viewers want, because it is like regardless of whether or not the spaulding theory is
true, it is fascinating as hell and very, very interesting.
And the the coordinated efforts that the church has made from Joseph Smith's
time to the modern church to minimize and to denigrate and to to try and ignore
and to destroy the spaulding theory have been fascinating in and of themselves.
And that could compose an entire three hour broadcast as well.
Absolutely.
The history of Mormon counter apologetics is a whole world unto itself for sure.
Wow.
Yeah. So anyway, back to the timeline.
That's like dangling a crack rock in front of a fiend.
Come on, I'm just kidding.
It's just the tip of tops, just the crim to the crim for this show.
Yeah, this is I mean, we're only like scoping this iceberg, the tip of this
iceberg from a thousand miles off this, the spaulding theory is fascinating.
So anyway, so spaulding or so Sidney Rigdon and Joseph Smith become very quick
friends when Rigdon goes out to New York to visit Joseph Smith.
Then Joseph gets to Kirland and he finds this guy in New OK, Whitney.
And that's his first mark.
Now, at the same time,
Joseph Smith had given a revelation to the saints in New York, telling them to get
to Missouri, because that is where he and other people were thinking was going
to be declared Zion and Mormonism is a Zionist cult.
Right. It's all about building Zion,
the New Jerusalem on the American continent.
And, you know, if we remember back to Hiram page, we talked about that was an
early power struggle between Joseph Smith and Hiram page was where is Zion?
Hiram page gave a revelation that he knew where Zion was.
And Joe said that that revelation is of the devil and had a seer stone
ground up in dust and scattered in the wind and the revelation itself burnt.
Right.
So people were still wanting to know where is Zion?
And Joe was in in the process of declaring that Missouri would be Zion.
He hadn't done it yet, though.
And that's really important.
But he gave the revelation that the Mormons needed to move out to Missouri
and to begin purchasing land out there.
And notably as well, the first missionaries were in Missouri at this time.
And this includes Oliver Cowdery, who was scribe for Joseph Smith and Peter Whitmer.
You know, one of the three Whittmers, there's David at John and Peter Whitmer,
you know, who was one of the scribes for the Book of Mormon.
Peter Whitmer was out there as well.
And what they were doing in Missouri was Missouri was the far West.
It was the furthest West that Europeans had really settled.
There were there were some burgeoning settlements in California as well as Texas.
Right. This is, you know, five years before the Alamo.
But as far as continental states go west, the Mississippi was basically, you know,
a little beyond the Mississippi.
And then in Missouri was it.
That was that was as far west as people had settled yet.
What were you going to say, David?
Yeah, David.
That was Tara Incognita.
There be dragons when you cross that's right.
Exactly.
So what the Mormon missionaries were doing in Missouri and all of this is really
important because these are trends are going to play into the Missouri Mormon
war as well as Joseph Smith's decisions in Kirtland.
The missionaries were preaching to the Native Americans in Missouri.
Missouri was also a really controversial state because it was the northernmost slave
state and it was north of the Mason-Dixon line that delineated between the northern
and the southern states.
So Missouri was really controversial as a slave state.
And that's where, you know, the Tread Scott decision.
The best decision our Supreme Court has ever made came out of Missouri.
It's a controversial place, right?
So the Mormon missionaries in Missouri are preaching to the Native Americans who had
been pushed out and removed to reservations in Missouri, as well as to slaves.
They were preaching the Book of Mormon to the slaves, basically offering them
reading lessons via the Book of Mormon, which is not dissimilar to how Christian
missionaries go to tribes in Africa and teach them the ways of Christianity,
teach them how to read English by giving them Bibles, right?
So the Mormon missionaries were doing that with the natives in Missouri.
And as they were preaching, the settlers were like, hey, we don't like this.
We don't like the Mormons out here.
These guys kind of suck.
So they got it in touch with General William Clark.
And this is William Clark of the Lewis and Clark exploration expedition, right?
This is only, you know, for like 30 years after their their great trek all the way
up to Oregon and their exploration and then drawing all of the maps and everything.
So General William Clark was head of Indian Affairs, the Office of Indian Affairs
in Missouri, and people needed to have permits in order to go preach to Native Americans.
The Mormons didn't get their permits.
They just went to the native settlements and started preaching Mormonism.
And that caused the other preachers in Missouri to be like, wait, why?
Why do these guys get a pass?
What the hell is going on here?
This isn't cool. This isn't fair.
So they contacted General William Clark and Clark was like, hey,
Mormons, stop doing that.
No more. Don't do that anymore.
And they stopped sort of a little bit for a little while.
But not really.
Because Mormons don't like to follow directions
unless they come from God.
And I was just going to say, I was just going to say, yeah.
So while this is going on in Missouri,
this is an 18 late 1830 all the way into late mid to late 1831.
The Mormon missionaries out there are trying to convert people.
They're trying to build settlements.
They're looking for work, trying to get employment to begin building this town
that's going to be Zion, the new Jerusalem.
So Joseph Smith during this time has become
a real good friends with Sidney Rigdon and they are working on projects together.
And this is some fascinating stuff because Joe and Sidney Rigdon teamed up
to make their own translation of the Bible.
And this Joseph Smith translation of the Bible, you know, we reference this
earlier in the series, it's not a translation the way that
everybody uses that word.
It's a translation of Joe and Sidney Rigdon reading the Bible and being like,
I think it means this, I think it means this and then arguing and bickering
and then settling and figuring, I think it means this.
So that's the Joseph Smith Bible.
And it was they were they completed the project sort of it was often on
throughout most of Joseph Smith's life,
but it was a constant time suck for them.
It sucked a lot of their resources, a lot of their time, because reading the Bible
sucks it, it sucks.
And then reading it and interpreting it and rewriting it the way that you think
it should read sucks way more.
It's a huge project.
It absolutely sucks.
So they only sort of finished it.
And then eventually the the RLDS church, that's the church that was led by
Joseph Smith's son, instead of Brigham Young, they published the Joseph Smith
translation of the Bible.
Very few Mormon sects use the Joseph Smith translation because it's not a
translation, it's just a commentary, basically.
And what they did is largely plagiarized from a biblical commentary of the time
by another theologian named Adam Clark, right?
So plagiarism is another theme that runs pretty consistent throughout Mormon history.
Yeah. Wow.
That's a lot.
You know, I used to have two Mormon missionaries come to my house in Washington
State, really nice fellows, and I used to offer them pizza and mountain dew.
And I didn't really realize, are they allowed to drink caffeine?
You know, because you kind of don't think about that.
But they were drinking mountain dew with me hanging out.
And I was like, look, man, I was like,
if you I'll let you share with me what you think this book says, right?
And this and then I'll share with you what I think.
And these guys were so cool, man.
They loved me to death.
That was so nice to them.
But they were open to like talk about this stuff.
This was like a lifestyle.
So it didn't matter what facts you present, that didn't matter.
They're brainwashed.
It's just part of the movement.
But this is interesting stuff, man.
Also, I'll bet that eating pizza and mountain dew with you was the highlight
of their whole two year mission.
Absolutely.
Garon, totally, totally.
Yeah, we went to the strip club.
A couple of months.
I want to hang out these missionaries.
I know, right?
So but if you ask Mormon missionaries about the Joseph Smith translation,
they may have some idea of what it is.
No Mormons own a copy unless they're
members of a fundamentalist or like a strictly orthodox sect,
not the larger like Salt Lake City movement, but these various fundamentalist
factions, some of them use the Joseph Smith translation.
But what is quite remarkable?
Go ahead.
So quick question.
How available is it online?
Has anybody ever photocopied that?
Yeah, yeah, I if I'm not mistaken, the Tanners published a copy of it,
but you can buy a bound, a leather bound
Joseph Smith Bible from the the Community of Christ, which is what the RLDS
became in 2000 was the Community of Christ.
Oh, this brings up an interesting question.
Now, when Jesus first appeared at Joseph, he said, commanded him, oh,
this is the Church of Christ.
And yet, four years later, after Sydney came in, it was the Church of Latter
Day Saints. That's right.
And then it was changed.
Oh, no, it was the Church of.
Ah, no, you had that right.
Yeah, it was the Church of Latter
Saints. Four years later, it changed again.
Yeah, to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
Yes, with 100 years later spelling.
Yes, 100 years later, they fixed the spelling and put a hyphen in.
Yeah, the white and delightful spelling.
We have to make sure I'm just exactly wrong.
Yeah, so that's actually a little ahead of where we are, right?
So I'm sorry, sorry, sorry.
Something that's also important here.
And this is something we didn't discuss last episode, but we probably should
have with Isaac Hale, Joe's father-in-law, wanting to see the plates.
The excuse that Joe gave was that it would be a child who would translate the
sealed portion of the plates, who would be the first person who sees the plates.
And that wasn't good enough for Isaac Hale, right?
He said, you can't have those things in my house.
And then Joe buried him in the woods somewhere.
Well, Joe and Emma had their first kid, Alvin,
named after Joe's late older brother, who died in 1824, I believe.
That child lived for a few hours and then, unfortunately, died.
And this is something that Joseph and Emma would struggle with for many of their
pregnancies. So Alvin died.
And that's like that's unequivocally a tragedy.
That's that's terrible, especially because Joseph Smith had basically
hinged the translation of the sealed portion on this child, his firstborn son,
rising to become the next prophet.
And, you know, it didn't happen.
So when Emma and Joe got to
Kirtland, Emma was pregnant again, this time with twins.
And these twins, this is Thaddeus and Louisa Smith.
They, unfortunately, when they were born in, I believe, late 1831,
sorry, it would been July of 1831, they did not survive either.
And that's also understandable, right?
Because like twins are that uncommon now.
But in the 19th century, twins almost never survived.
So so they they passed away as well.
But what they did do, what the Smiths did instead, was adopt another set of twins
who had killed their mother during childbirth.
So Emma's twins weren't viable and they died a few hours after birth.
But another set of twins had been born to a Mormon
and his, you know, that she had died giving birth to those twins and they survived.
So the Smiths basically adopted these two twins as, I guess, like replacement value
for Thaddeus and Louisa.
Yeah, I know. It's it's not good.
It's it's really it's unfortunate.
So that happened in one of those cases of, oh, it's divine timing.
Clearly, this is a message from God.
Who knows? Who knows what they were thinking.
Yeah, I guess.
And it was really tough as well, because Julia, it was these were the Murdoch twins.
Julia, who survived into adulthood,
she was not told that she was adopted until Nauvoo.
So she grew up not just believing that she was a biological child like most most kids do.
And was only she only learned that she was adopted through rumors in Nauvoo,
which I can't imagine what that what that must be like.
Yeah. So anyway, in also happened in 1831,
Joseph traveled to Missouri to dedicate to declare that this is Zion and to
dedicate a plot of land that would be where they would build the temple.
And this temple was to be the location, the center hub that Jesus would reign
from, that they would build their theocratic government in Jackson County, Missouri.
Joe also declared that that was where the Garden of Eden was.
Yes, I've been fighting my tongue on episode for that.
Yes, not just where he's coming back.
That is the Garden of Eden.
Yeah, Garden of Eden, Missouri.
How does that work with the Bible timeline?
It's religion is not supposed to make sense.
Wow.
Yeah, I didn't realize.
I mean, I knew they were like this was wild.
OK, but everything, everything is literally wild.
Everything is that's why.
OK, I'm getting what you're saying when you say this is so much fun,
because it's just going to get crazier.
We haven't even got into the sex stuff.
We haven't even got into my gosh, Jerry Springer, bro.
This is like I'm excited.
I can't wait to see what comes of this, dude.
This is crazy.
And it's like every time he bumped into like some Indian mound or something.
Why? Here's the very alter that Abraham sacrifice.
Right here in the new world.
I mean, he was doing that.
Constantly. Yeah. Wow.
Yeah, he just grabs something that was around and then he'd fabricated a story
around it and and the people who follow him are like, oh, wow.
The prophet has spoken.
This is divine revelation.
And the people who are like, no, that's that's that's bullshit.
Right. They're not members anyway.
They're not going to have any sway over the people who truly believe.
They hate the church.
They're enemies of the church.
They're the adversary.
That's anti Mormon.
Yeah, anti Mormon.
Yeah, that I did an episode the other day with John W.
Loftus on the case against miracles.
And he was like, you know, notice that if you don't have faith and already don't
believe you won't get this supposed miracle, he's like, you usually have to
already believe drink the Kool-Aid and then you'll understand.
And so, yeah, it goes wrong.
You have to double down on your face right through.
That's absolutely right. Wow.
Yeah. So this is, you know, this is 1831.
Joe declares that Jackson County, Missouri is Zion, and he calls for the Mormons
to settle there. Now, notably the missionaries who were in Missouri,
Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Zyba Peterson, Frederick G. Williams,
they they weren't that successful in converting people.
The most sure.
Yeah, they were they were a wacky new radical sag.
And people just didn't really pay them much mind.
This is also where
the Whitmer's and Oliver Cowdery met Lilburn Boggs, Lilburn W.
Boggs and Lilburn Boggs is going to make a reappearance later on in our
timeline during the Missouri Mormon War because he was governor of Missouri.
He was elected to be governor in 1832, I believe.
So as a candidate, he actually had one of the missionaries come and do some
tailoring for him.
And he thought quite highly of the Mormons.
He thought that they were they were they may have a fanatical belief,
but they're nice people.
So Lilburn Boggs early on in 1831, 1832 thought Mormons are cool.
That's new to me. I had not known that.
Yeah. Yeah.
He makes a radical change later. Yeah.
Yeah. Right.
Well, and there are many, many reasons for that radical change later.
And that culminates in the Missouri Mormon War and and Lilburn Boggs signing
the Mormon extermination order that forced the Mormons out of the entire state
of Missouri, right? We're getting ahead of it.
We're getting ahead of it.
I dropped the knife on the table and I just said what the knife is for.
I'm bad at this foreshadowing thing.
Anyway, so cut that.
Cut that, Derek. Cut it.
Fresh start. We're good. We'll cut it in it.
All right, we're good now.
So anyway, they met a guy named Boggs.
Boggs Boggs, something low burn, something Boggs.
OK, so the Mormons weren't that successful.
So when Joe gets out to Missouri, he's like, what?
Guys, guys, what is going on here?
Why? Why haven't you converted everybody in the state yet?
And they're like, well,
the people here are backwards, the people here are farmers and they're country
bumpkins and they're they're rough people.
So what Joe decides to do is basically set up a satellite church there in Missouri,
led by Oliver Coutry, David Whitmer and John Whitmer, right?
These these are, you know, the three of the 11 witnesses, right?
And Oliver Coutry and David Whitmer,
they were two of the three witnesses of the plates, like they are Joe's second
in command before Joe met Sidney Ricton.
These are powerful and important individuals in early Mormon history.
And John Whitmer is the first church historian.
And that's the presidency of the Missouri stake of the church.
It's like a tent stake, right?
You stake the church in this place and you stake it in various locations.
And that all feeds into the hub that was Kirtland.
That's the headquarters of the church.
So Zion, the Zion stake becomes a thing.
And Joe has great plans for this place.
He has interject a quick side.
Speaking of Oliver Coutry and Sidney Ricton,
when Sidney Ricton got his way into the church and quickly became the number two guy,
Oliver Coutry, the former number two guy, did not care for that so much.
So that's going to lead to trouble too.
Yeah, they actually had numerous public
disagreements and church periodicals arguing about the nature of God and the
importance of infant baptism and a number of things that Sidney Ricton had been
arguing about as a theologian for 15 years before Oliver Coutry was ever a person, right?
But they they had public disputes.
Yeah, flame wars in church periodicals.
It's actually pretty funny to watch the back and forth between Coutry and Ricton.
Right. So anyway,
Joe has Sidney Ricton draw up a plat of Zion.
And this plat includes 12 temples in Zion
surrounded by 24 other smaller auxiliary buildings, basically sets up this huge
city plot that is going to be Zion, the new Jerusalem, that's going to be the
center of the Mormon city, the Missourian's catchwind of this.
And they're like, this this is our town.
Mormons are going to build a whole town here.
This is our town.
Yeah.
So thus begins the tensions between the Mormons and the Missourians,
including the Mormons preaching to the slaves and preaching to the Native
Americans and teaching slaves how to read with the Book of Mormon, which
that was the biggest thread to slaveholders, was the slaves learning how to read.
That's the first step towards an uprising.
That threatened everything about their livelihood.
They didn't want that to happen.
So the Mormons are beginning to grind against the Missourians.
So Joe makes his way back to Kirtland from Missouri.
It's a thousand miles and he and Rigdon are translating the Bible.
They're doing all sorts of fun stuff.
Joe's delivering revelation after revelation.
All these divine dictatorial theots.
This is how the church is supposed to be run.
He has scribes.
They're converting people.
They're baptizing people.
But Joseph Smith is super resource hungry.
He he's a lazy dog, I tell you.
He's he cannot get enough resources.
And so he and Emma are moving around into the homes of different, you know,
wealthy Mormons, they're raising their these two adopted kids.
And and things are just they're they're good in Kirtland.
But Joe's also running into debt a lot
because he doesn't have any real income besides just tithing.
So a few things happen.
Joseph Smith decides to form what's
known as the United Order and bishops' storehouses.
Quick point.
The Book of Mormon is unequivocally a socialist text.
The the the enlightened cities, the white and the lights of cities in the Book of
Mormon, whether that's the city of Moroni or Zarahemla or the Nephite cities or
whatever, the most enlightened cities are common stock cities that are all owned
in common. Nobody owns property.
All of the property is owned by all of the people in it.
So people would say, oh, that sounds like socialism.
Yeah, Mormonism at its foundation is a socialist religion.
So was Christianity.
I was just going to say exactly that.
Yes, yeah, the Nias and Sephirah.
The Book of Acts is clearly started out.
Nobody owns property so much so that as soon as the husband and wife, the names you
just listed here, David, come in and they want to keep a little bit of the money
themselves, they sold their property to help fund the early church so that
everybody's good, they find out that they hid a little bit for themselves.
And the Holy Spirit strikes their own money, strikes them dead in the Book of Acts,
which is why I keep referencing the Bible when we talk about this cult,
because I think it's very important that people who are watching myth is and
can start to see a connection to a bigger cult that survived for two millennia
and so evolved over to millennia.
Right.
And we'll be seeing them make that same reference, that exact same connection also.
Exactly.
And Mormonism is a Christian cult, right?
It's predicated on Christian belief.
And Sidney Rigdon, one of the things that drove a wedge between Sidney
Rigdon and his mentor, Alexander Campbell, was socialism and the proper
interpretations of common stock, because Alexander Campbell was a very wealthy
and very well respected and known preacher.
He lived very lavishly.
Sidney Rigdon was one of his protogees.
They had this monumental debate in 1826 about infant baptism and common stock,
what it means to have all things in common, where Alexander Campbell wiped the floor
with Sidney Rigdon and that drove their relationship apart.
And that's when Sidney Rigdon kind of struck out on his own and was like,
I'm going to build my own religions that are not Campbellite, that are the
disciples of Christ.
And then, you know, Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon meet up later and found
throughout the Book of Mormon is socialism, this concept of common stock.
Right.
Another case of perfect storm, perfect timing in Mormon history.
Yeah, certainly.
Or calculation, if you subscribe to Rigdon and Joseph
collusion to publish the Book of Mormon.
So you can declare that you're a socialist religion, but there's a lot of logistical
crap you got to deal with when you say that.
And it was also done to answer Joe's debts, as well as a lot of the Mormons who
were emigrating from New York, they were coming over with nothing.
They didn't have much money to their name.
So might I add to this real quick?
And this is referencing Paul and the early church.
There is this hunch that a lot of scholars will suggest.
And you guys are probably aware of it.
That, you know, the contract in Galatians is Paul saying, listen,
they gave me the green thumb.
They said here, stamp of approval as long as you remember the poor,
feed Jerusalem, you know, filter money to us.
It's OK, we approve of your message.
And Paul's really mad because he's saying, you guys backstab me.
You turned around and you now are you're not approving of my message and saying,
you know, his uncircumcision message to the Gentiles and everything he presents
him, in fact, they're counter apologetics to his own audience.
So now he's saying, oh, who bewitched you, you Galatians?
Those those apostles are the ones I don't even think they're real Christians.
Right.
So there's so much right here, bro.
It's just like a repetitive history is like, let's just start completely from scratch.
Get rid of this book and like, but no, they got to keep regurgitating.
And I find it interesting that these two guys who preach,
they're debating and the one wipes the floor with them, who's rich, of course.
He might line up more with what modern,
Protestant Christianity actually agrees with, whereas these guys aren't really
going first century. If you go first century, you're probably more in line
with Joseph Smith, believe it or not.
So it's a funny win win for him being a poor, sloppy slouch of a man who doesn't
want to make any money by hard work.
Isn't that funny how that works?
It's whatever, whatever brand of Christianity you go for.
There's a brand of Christianity for you.
Yeah.
And if there isn't, then you make one.
Bingo.
Yeah. And that's the one true faith.
And that's the only true faith.
Thank you. Only exclusive true faith.
So yeah, so Joe creates this system known as the United Firm and
orchestrates a coordination of bishops' storehouses that are going to handle
the logistical constraints of running a socialistic religion, communalistic
religion. Sorry. Super quick question.
Is the United Order and the United Order of Enoch the same thing?
United Order of Enoch is a later iteration by, I think, like a fundamental or like
a break off, you know, one of many break off factions.
And and like it's also notable, like the FLDS, they have the United Effort Plan.
There's the United Firm slash United Order that it was originally called,
but various fundamentalist groups that practice all things in common
have their various interpretations, their various versions of this
communalistic system.
And yeah, like the Apostolic United Brother in they practice this.
The the Peterson group, they practice communalism.
I immediately regret this rabbit hole.
Yeah, yeah.
Withdraw my question.
Bring me back. Yeah. Thank you.
Right. So so Joe creates this United Firm and he is aware that he is a bad
businessman and that the best way to to remedy your personal debts is to have
all of the rich people in town give you all their stuff, including their businesses.
But that doesn't stop him from being a bad business man.
So he they create this United Firm that is going to basically handle all
of the business affairs of all of the wealthy Mormons.
And that includes the the in and tavern of John Johnson and the Newell K.
Whitney store that we saw a picture of earlier.
And I can find a picture of the it's unfortunately a reconstructed version
of the John Johnson Inn, but it's a massive building.
It's surprisingly sizable for what this building is.
And it's a terrible photo, but that's because I'm not a photographer.
But and I take all of these pictures that I've shown here.
But that's the John Johnson Inn that's owned today.
And it's basically an office building that's owned by the church where they
you know, are basically the administrators of the various affairs in Kirtland.
So these these businesses, including a foundry in a sawmill and an ashery
and a tannery and a whole bunch of other businesses are all absorbed into the church.
And Joe begins to take the proceeds of all of these and they go into the United
Firm and the United Firm disperses money and resources to the Mormons as they need.
But of course, Joseph's needs Trump's everybody else's needs.
And he's a really needy guy.
So he instead basically micromanages all of these businesses into the ground.
And very few of them remain solvent.
And eventually, all of the people who were wealthy businessmen before Joe got there,
they don't have any businesses to their name.
They don't even own their own houses.
They don't have any property anymore because Joe absorbed it all and siphoned off
all of the resources.
Do they still have wives?
I'm just kidding.
We haven't got we haven't got them yet.
Let's well, let's talk about John Johnson because John Johnson had a daughter,
a 16 year old daughter, Miranda Nancy Johnson.
And while Joe and Emma were living with the
Johnson's in Hiram, Ohio, Joe and Sidney Rigdon were living in that little town
there and working on the Bible translation and an angry mob stormed into the house
and dragged Joseph Smith out, beat him and then attempted to cut off his nuts.
Didn't they tar and feather him as well?
They once they once the doctor that they brought in to castrate him
lost his nerve, that's when they resolved to tar and feather him as well as tried
to shove a vial of poison down his throat, the cracked his tooth.
They also beat Sidney Rigdon within an inch of his life as well.
That that's notable as well.
I want to add, I want to add that
Merminded Nancy Johnson, who was 16 at this time, later became one of Joe's wives
in Nauvoo and a later account alleges that two of the members of the mob were
actually her older brothers.
It's starting to add up.
The puzzle pieces begin to fit together.
Wow.
As long as we're traipsing down the sex road, have we have in this part of the
timeline, have we already had
his first plural wife?
You broke up, David.
Say it again.
Did Miranda come first?
You lose me?
I would say at this part, as long as we're going down
the sex road, at this point in the timeline, had his first official wife,
Fanny, come into the picture yet, or is that still in the future?
That's still a little in the future.
All right, let's come back to that when we cross that bridge.
Yeah, yeah, we'll get to that certainly very, very soon, actually.
Miranda is before Fanny Alger.
Miranda is 1832.
The Fanny Alger incident is in 1836.
So there's still quite a bit of time here.
Oh, yeah, a lot of other scandals.
Loads of scandals to Fung Cork, yes.
So that's what's going on in Kirtland, right?
Joe is absorbing all these properties.
They're also building the Kirtland Temple.
And we need to spend a little bit of time on the Kirtland Temple, but not today.
But just know that the Kirtland Temple was a massive resource suck to the tune
of about a million and a half dollars of today's money
built by people who were destitute living in shantytowns.
Yes, exactly.
And, you know, in this Kirtland Temple, it's a massive building.
And it was an impressive large building at when it was originally constructed.
Right. And like this is as it stands today, that's the original building.
That is the original Kirtland Temple.
It's maintained by the the community of Christ, which was the RLDS Church.
And, you know, this is I took a ton of pictures of this place.
Wow, because it's really cool.
You can do a tour that takes you from the basement of it all the way up to the
bell tower, which is where, you know, these pictures are taken from up here on the
bell tower, you can see over the roof of it and this this whole grove behind it.
So also this image that you can see here is actually pretty important because
right back here in this grove where these trees are sitting,
the church also constructed a three-story building.
And that was basically their administration offices.
That's where they ran the school.
That's where they ran the printing press.
That's where they ran all of the United Firm.
They had this three-story building that was owned by the church that ran all of
their temporal affairs right behind the temple.
So they begin building this temple in 1832.
It doesn't complete construction.
It's 1836 and the church goes massively in debt to build this thing.
We'll pick up on that later.
So while all this is going on in Kirtland, in Missouri, there's a lot of stuff
happening there because the Mormons are growing.
A lot of people are moving or selling their property in Kirtland to the church
or giving their property to the church and then moving out to Missouri with the
understanding that there would be land there for them to settle if they just get
out there and they're settling in Zion, right?
In the new Jerusalem, Jackson County, Missouri was declared to be ground zero
where Jesus is going to touch down on the second coming.
This is going to be the seat of his theocratic government.
Zion is really important.
Jackson County, Missouri, so more Mormons are settling there to the point
that they're beginning to outnumber some of the the Missouri settlers there.
The old citizens of Missouri
who do not like the Mormons at all.
Wow, I guess the question I have is at the opening of this episode,
you point out a very wealthy businessman that he prophesies to or he says,
oh, you have prayed me here.
How's this guy?
This guy, you started out with him.
He sounds like he's very important.
Is this guy like a major player in in this timing as well?
Is he convinced of Mormonism at this point because of Joseph Smith's charismatic
deception, if you will?
Absolutely, right.
So that guy, Nulke Whitney,
he's he's important because, you know, he's he's got a daughter, of course.
And also he he and his wife took in the Smiths who lived with them for a certain
amount of time, and I'm trying to find a picture of their home because I definitely
have a picture of it.
It was painted yellow, which was a sign of opulence and wealth.
But I'm unfortunately unable to find it here.
Anyway, so yeah, the Whitney's,
he is declared as Bishop of Kirtland and the bishops are the guys who run the
bishop's storehouses, which is the place where everybody dedicates their properties
to their property to the United firm.
All of the logistics of handling everybody's property is all administered
through the bishops storehouse.
So Nulke Whitney, while he gave all of his properties and gave all of his businesses
to the United order, the United firm, I mean,
he was named Bishop of of Kirtland.
So he was basically put in control of all of the church's assets.
And notably, like this guy, he moved, you know, he went with Brigham Young to Utah.
He was second in command to Brigham Young for he was he's a very, very well known
figure in Utah Mormon history as well.
But, you know, he was somebody who,
if not for him, then Joseph Smith never would have had the resources to grow his
church in Kirtland, much less he wouldn't have had a place to live
because he would have lived they they lived with the Whitney family
when they first moved out there.
So a couple.
Last question I have because we're getting close, guys.
Yeah, and I just want to ask one thing because I know there's plenty more.
Don't worry.
We're going to get plenty of time in the next episode to try and sum up what's
going on in Kirtland here.
Am I saying that right?
Kirkland or Kirkland because my brother's name is Kurt just like the Costco brand,
which is named after the same place.
Awesome. Well, not true at all.
It's not true at all.
No, it's Kurtland with a T.
Kurtland with a T.
But Kurtland. Yeah.
Yeah. Costco is Kirkland.
So do they convert any of these Indians?
Do they convert any of these Indians?
No, sir.
The natives were so fed up with the white man's religion.
They they they hated the pale faces.
Justifiable. OK.
Yeah. But they listen to them.
Yeah. Well, and they trade goods.
They did trade goods, but no natives ever converted to the church in in this
Kirtland or this Missouri era, which is weird because they were preaching that
they were fallen, you know, savages marked by sin.
I don't go for that in spades.
Yeah. Yeah. Weird.
Why wouldn't they want to convert those stingy natives?
Oh, oh, oh, you make an interesting point because they're teaching at that time
was if they do become Mormons, they would become fair and delights them again.
That's correct.
Their dark skin would become white.
So well, it's not to love about that.
Wow. And Joseph also told his missionary
bros to take native women as wives.
That helps with the white and delights them.
That's how you that's how you breed the righteousness into them.
You're crazy.
And that would become a program
or resurrected in Utah, known as the Indian Placement Program,
which was run as a basically a reeducation camp for Native Americans
until 1996. Wow.
1996. Wow.
Yeah. A lot of horrific stuff about that.
Anyway, so let's let's finish up with let's wrap up with Missouri.
So as the Mormons were growing, as they
were orchestrating the United Firm in in Missouri,
notably as well, a new OK, Whitney had a business partner named Algernon Sidney
Gilbert and Algernon Sidney Gilbert and Whitney were business partners in
Kirtland running the new OK, Whitney company store that we saw a picture of
at the beginning of this episode, Joe named Gilbert as Bishop in Missouri.
So Gilbert took his portion, his ownership or whatever,
and gave it to the United Firm, to the Bishop Storehouse in Kirtland and then
moved out to Missouri, where he opened a new store in Jackson County in
in Independence, Missouri.
And that was the Sidney Gilbert and Company store, which stands to this day.
I can find a picture of that as well.
So Sidney Gilbert is the bishop in Missouri.
New OK, Whitney is the bishop in Kirtland.
And these two are good friends and business partners.
So as tensions begin to rise or continue to rise
between the Missourians and the Mormons in Independence, Missouri,
Joe is rattling off revelation after revelation after revelation.
And he rattles off one revelation that talks about the uprising beginning in the
South Carolina and that the the the the natives will
vex the nation with a sore vexation,
basically prophesying of the Mormon Revolution, because his grand plans are
to bring together the Native Americans and the freed slaves and overthrow the
American government in his Mormon Revolution.
So he prophesies of this happening.
At the same time that the Mormons were preaching to two slaves and freed slaves
in Missouri and to Native Americans and the Missourians see this as essentially
a declaration of war.
So the Missourians in no, just was not quite not quite.
I want people to be like, what?
Just wait. OK.
The Missourians take this as a declaration of war.
And as the printing press, the Mormon printing press in Independence is printing
these revelations to become the Book of Commandments, the Missourians burn that
printing press building to the ground and they violently chase the Mormons out
of Independence, Missouri.
And it was violent, right?
A couple of people died.
Some some men were beaten within an inch of their life,
caught up with with buoy knives tarred and feathered, whipped.
A couple of non Mormons died in the scuffles.
It was bad.
It was a really ugly time.
Joe catches word that the Mormons are chased out of Independence.
This happens in December of 1833 in the dead of winter.
Joe gets word that this happens in early 1834.
And the Mormons are like, well, what are you going to do about it, Joe?
What are you going to do?
Yeah, that dude, we I have to cut you off.
There is no way there's no way they can't.
David, do you have any comments prior to getting off here?
Cliffhanger, no, that is where to go.
Yeah. Yeah.
So go down in the description.
Help these guys get a book.
Join the podcast that he has.
Guys, this is so good.
I cannot wait.
I mean, this is like I can't wait every week.
I do these recordings with you and I'm like, yes, more.
I told you, the New York era is the most boring time.
This is about to get crazy.
Make sure you guys subscribe to this channel.
Make sure you guys go subscribe to his podcast.
You guys can help him out.
He has a patreon.
You guys can help David out buying his books and he's going to set up a patreon.
We're going to get it all set up, guys.
You guys can help us in many ways to make this possible.
I really do appreciate you guys joining on this podcast.
This is getting crazier and crazier.
I don't know where I learned this.
I probably would have never learned this.
So if it weren't for you guys, thank you.
I love teaching people who know none of Mormon history.
This this basic timeline, because it is so much fun.
This this is this is my wheelhouse.
This is my favorite thing to do.
This is what I do for a living.
Really, this is this is where I am just like you can see the smile on my face.
I am just so happy.
I'm having so much fun and I'm so happy to have a captive audience.
And an ignorant host.
Yes, perfect storm once again.
Exactly.
Thank you, guys.
And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are Mithvision.
