?
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, Joseph Atwell is joining us again on MythVision Podcast.
It's been some time.
If you haven't checked our previous interviews out, please do.
Me and Dr. Luther were hanging out with Joe Atwell before.
We were talking about his book, Caesar's Messiah.
We still haven't done Shakespeare's Messiah.
We need to actually talk about that someday.
Right now, though, we're going to be talking about your thesis, and a lot of people are
probably new to subscribing to this channel, Joe, and they've never actually maybe read
your book, heard about your book.
One of the processes that I take is to be cautious and skeptical and consider data.
Collect as much data as possible before trying to draw a conclusion or trying to be anything
dogmatic.
I've been dogmatic my whole life as a Christian.
I think it's time that I slow down when we have such scant evidence to really draw serious
conclusions on so many things.
I think the Socratic method is an extremely healthy and a reasonable approach when you're
dealing with text that aren't just history.
Let me add the value you said before I hit record.
Cultic history.
We're talking highly theological, strange mythological motifs and allegorical approaches,
things that are just like, how do you interpret things like this, and how can you be dogmatic
about so much when we know so little?
Joe, thank you for joining me again today.
It's my pleasure.
Gee, your show has gained so much popularity.
It's wonderful to see, and it's just such a breath of fresh air for New Testament scholarship
to have.
Just a show where so many different ideas can come forward.
It's just wonderful.
Good for you.
Well, thank you, Joe.
And I think it's important that we keep the ideas coming, and it doesn't need to just
be from the academic world.
I myself am not an academic.
I don't have a PhD.
Maybe one day I'll drive home something if that's something I have the appeal to do.
But I like the flexibility.
I like to hone in on ideas and broaden my scope and delve into various topics without
some political, and I don't mean like Democrat or Republican, I mean in the academic world,
a political agenda driving me to say you can't explore beyond the scope of the consensus
on these ideas.
So this is one of the things I admire and do, even though I honor and respect academia.
I myself don't necessarily draw it just because consensus does.
It's something worth looking at and knowing what they think and why, but also challenging
ideas.
And you do that all too well.
You've bucked a lot of people.
How do I put this?
You've gotten under a lot of people's skin in the past.
With this book right here, Caesar's Messiah, this is a hot book.
And if you haven't read it, I don't care if you disagree with every jot and tittle in
this book at the end of the day.
This book right here, if you read this book, it is fascinating.
He does this typology connecting, you know, we know mimesis.
We call it mimesis in the scholarly world.
It's a typology off of Moses and the Exodus that we see in Matthew.
It's almost verbatim, narrative wise, structural wise, et cetera, is the New Testament gospels
and potentially more within the New Testament doing the same thing except with Josephus'
writings.
Well, read this book and you'll be shocked to see Vespasian and Titus' life and often
possible parallels between them, a woman named Mary with a child who is a burnt sacrifice,
burnt offering in the temple's destruction.
We know that the gospels are temple-centric and focusing on that.
Got to read the book.
I don't want to give too much away.
I'll let Joe do that.
But absolutely get the book.
He also has the Shakespeare's Messiah.
Where is that thing at?
Anyway, you can look it up on the Amazon.
It's in the description down below.
Joe, sorry for the intro long-gated, but let's discuss your thesis.
And I'm sorry if you hear a background noise.
No.
Well, I mean, my thesis is that the gospels were created by the Flavians and they structured
the sequence events in Jesus' life and the events as well to be a broad structured typology
so that the Son of Man that Jesus is predicting is identified by the stories in the gospels.
It would indicate that the Son of Man is the Roman Flavian Caesar who came and destroyed
the rebellious Messianic movement in the first century.
The reason why the book is so popular, I suppose, is because it has a really strong argument.
And the argument is based on the idea that there's been something really overlooked in
New Testament scholarship.
We talked about new ideas and the need for new ideas in all fields, but particularly in
ones that are attacked to theology, it's a good idea.
And the thing that was overlooked was sequence.
There was, I think, until Caesar's Messiah, there really was never a work of Christian
scholarship that ascribed a events in Jesus' ministry.
And this is an oversight.
It's an analytic blunder because if you look at the very first page of the gospels, the
New Testament in Matthew, he has a long series of typologic links between Jesus and Moses
and they occur in sequence.
In fact, without the sequence, some of the parallels are so obtuse that they couldn't
be recognized.
Because they are all occurring in sequence, the overall construction is visible in the
individual aspects that make it upper visible.
So sequence is extremely important in the typology of the New Testament.
And there are many events, people will agree, of course, that are from the Roman Jewish
war that pop up in the gospels.
You have the encircling of Jerusalem, the raising of the temple, the abomination of
desolation.
There are things which are historical events which have popped up in the gospels.
Now, they occur in the same sequence in the gospels as the events occurred in the war
that Josephus recorded.
And so this would just in and of itself create a strong premise that it wasn't just these
individual events that ended up in the gospels, but that the whole storyline.
Because if you look at the geographical journey Jesus takes, it's parallel to the one, the
Flavian military campaign, starts in Galilee, you have an event which can be seen as fishing
for men, and you go on to Jerusalem, you spend a little bit of time outside Jerusalem, you
have a triumphant entrance, you go inside, the temple gets raised.
And then you have this, I regard it just like the gold standard of typologic connection
is the three crucified one survives passage, which I presented in Caesar's Messiah and
now it's just almost becoming mainstream New Testament scholarship.
There's so many people commenting on this that it is seen as in the same light, encircling
Jerusalem with the wall or the raising of the temple, it was just as a lot of New Testament
scholars who agree that the two events are related because they're so similar.
They just say this was a piece of history that somehow found its way into the gospels.
They don't attempt to contest the idea that the two events are not somehow related.
But however, once you have placed that position inside the events of the gospels as coming
from the Jewish war that Josephus wrote about, well, now you're almost completely to my thesis
because at that point, you only need to just put in place the absolutely no-brainer parallels
that other scholars have written about, binding and loosening.
Eisman writes about the conclusion of the gospels where Simon is condemned and taken
to Rome, how similar the Josephus event is to the one in the gospels.
And so there's all these parallels that have been seen by scholars.
Well, once you just lay the historical events next to the ones where they're either just
no-brainer, they're just so parallel that they can't be disputed or they've been talked
about by other New Testament scholars in isolation, well, you're already, my thesis
is simply QED.
There it is.
And this, of course, Derrick has a meaning in that when Jesus predicts the Son of Man,
it certainly would indicate that this is the Flavian Caesar.
And of course, this is completely unified theologically and logically with Josephus'
Wars of the Jews because he identifies the Flavian Caesar as the Messiah that the Jewish
prophecies foresaw.
And he even describes the New Covenant in that he has a divine experience with God,
a dream, and he understands that all of God's favor now goes over to the Romans.
So it is odd that sequence hasn't really been analyzed, you know, the sequence of events
in the Gospels haven't really been just wondered about as to where the exact sequence came from
because so many scholars are,
the goal was embellished, which would mean that the actual sequence events is not
historical.
So where does it come from?
And given that, you know, like the geographical parallels are straightforward, anyone can see
this.
And then if you look back to the, what I really call the template for the typology, which is
the typology that begins the Gospels, the one in Matthew where you have, you know, the
Joseph has dreams, he goes from Israel to Egypt, you know, you have the slaughter of the innocence,
you know, the massacre of the innocence, and I won't go into it, but there's like eight events
which are understood by scholarship.
Goulder brought out this information, you know, 60, 70 years ago.
And so that system of typology is made up of names and locations, concepts and sequence.
This is the same type, this is the exact same system that goes forward in time to Titus.
So it's the thing about, and the thing about Thedra Messiah is that, you know, I get to,
if I choose, I can debate, you know, anyone I want basically because a lot of people want
to do it, but it's really not particularly interesting for me.
I mean, I've done, I mean, you've, if you've ever listened to, I did a really long one with
Dr. Price years ago, which I thought was a good one.
I've had exchanges, you know, with carrier that have been extensive.
And then I've done a lot of like debating with Christian apologists, but it's really
not particularly interesting in the sense that the quality of evidence is static.
In other words, I just have the sequence, I have the events,
people can make it whatever they want out of it, but they can't really get rid of the
sequence events in the New Testament, the sequence of the events in Josephus.
And the, what I would say to people who are contesting it is, look, you can basically
verify the idea that there was a broad typologic connection between Josephus and the Gospels
without any of the exotic parallels that I show.
You can just use the locations, the things which are exactly the same historical events,
like encircling Jerusalem with a wall, for example.
And then the parallels that have already been discussed by other scholars.
And then you would have a long sequence and of, you know, a very unusual and unique events
which couldn't be circumstantial.
And now at this point, you have a new kind of New Testament scholarship,
but you have a new idea about how to look at the Gospels is to try to look at them as
typologic literature generated by the Roman Imperial Court.
It is interesting, if you hear any background noise, please.
I think my neighbor's mowing his crass.
Dr. Price, actually, the other day, we were talking about an article he wrote that's going
to come out in the Journal of Higher Criticism on, like, did Jesus exist?
Which one of the things you do that I think are interesting in your book is you don't really say
there was or there wasn't a guy.
And it's not necessary for what you're trying to prove or what you're trying to show.
He's pointing out in this article that where Christians are waiting on a second coming
of Jesus, mythicists just say the first one never happened.
And so there's this problem of, like, you guys are talking about a second, but where's the first?
And in this article, though, he's talking about how we would want to know,
you know, what we could use to base on the historical Jesus.
And while that was going on, I'm in my head going, hold on.
It does sound like there's a fulfillment, even though it's not literally a fulfillment,
it's ex-eventu of the temple's destruction.
I gave Dr. Bob a call and we were on the phone and wouldn't you know it?
He goes, I think that the prophecy of the Son of Man being third person coming from the lips of Jesus,
he wasn't saying he himself necessarily was the Son of Man, but that the Son of Man was going to come.
He goes, and I think that that fits the Vespasian Titus parallel and the Gospels.
So going from the debate that he was in with you where he was like,
parallelomania, you know, this is years ago, like years ago.
And if you haven't caught that debate, it's like deeply buried somewhere on the internet.
And but it was a really interesting debate.
You guys were not seeing eye to eye on many things.
And now he's like, you know, actually, I think there's something to this.
One of my biggest hesitations, if I can get that out upfront,
is that it's dark, that it has a dark intention, right?
I don't want to say that that isn't the case in the New Testament,
that there are clear indications of anti-Semitism and things like that, especially,
I mean, even the consensus looks at John and says, yeah, John is like blaming all Jewish people,
no wonder second century Christians were literally anti-Semites.
It's like obvious, it's right in front of your eyes,
and you just got to be blind if you're not looking.
But the totality of everything is the difficult part for me is saying,
everything's like a dark comedy, so to speak.
Would your thesis work the same even if it wasn't dark comedy in your eyes?
I mean, suppose they were really trying to convince people of a new type of religion.
You know, it could in the sense that Rome had been trying to get a religious control over
Judaism for generations. I mean, if you go back to how they manipulated the herds,
inserted the herds, and then the herds took Hasmone and Brides, you know,
they were trying to breed a Christ, basically, one that they could raise in Rome and
have as a Roman leader of the religion. The herds took over the Sanhedrin,
you know, they were doing the interpretation of law.
But I would say that the sad thing is here is that the Roman Jewish struggle was such a blood
bath. It was so fundamental to the history of the era that there's really no way to separate
it from the religion. It's impossible. You know, you look at going forward, you know,
the Barcoca rebellion and the Kiddos rebellion. I mean, these things were empire-wide blood baths.
They're sort of buried in history. There are details which give us an understanding of
just how catastrophic this was. I mean, the Kiddos rebellion, which is in 115,
very few people even know about. But in it, the Jews gained control over the island of Cyprus,
I believe, and they genocide at all 200,000 Gentiles. The regions in Egypt that they took over
were depopulated. You know, there's an actual letter that was uncovered of a Roman magistrate
fleeing down the Egypt, heading toward, you know, Southern Africa to get out of the regions that the
Jews had conquered. So this wasn't a trivial rebellion. I mean, this was existential life and
death. And so the religion, which, you know, I mean, just to give an example, you take the
central concept of Christianity, which is the human Passover lamb. I mean, this is a specific
denigration of Judaism in that it is relating to, and it's talking about a new covenant that has,
as part of its foundation, you know, this Mary character in Josephus who actually eats her son.
Okay, so I'm afraid that, you know, the idea that Christianity can be partitioned away from the
dark Roman humor and just leave the positive sort of homilies that Jesus pronounces. I don't think
this is really possible. And I think that it's actually, in a strange way, it's actually useful
for humans to understand that, you know, the oligarchs, the people who create history, because
what we have history is their understanding of how to make us easy to control. You know,
we have to be more skeptical of it. You know, we talk about the Socratic method, which, you know,
I would say it would be, you know, just a good standard for certainly New Testament scholarship,
but moreover, for all citizens to have in relationship to the government, to the history
that's being given us, to the news we're given. I mean, the Socratic method is really what has been
developed to defend us against being fooled, and also to strengthen the bonds between humans
through reason. You know, if we use this approach, we don't have to end up in a, you know,
in a, in a, in a binary situation, a zero sum game, where I'm here in this process of negotiation
to defeat you, and to have a victory over you. Or to be, or to be right. Or to have to be right,
right. So, but rather, it's a process of understanding that is really what we need to
give ourselves to. And the more that this approach has taken just the better quality of
citizens we have. And I think that in the New Testament scholarship, it has been completely
lost. We were talking before the show started about, you know, why this is the case, why, why
that there's so much vitriol in the exchanges. And there's lots of reasons for it. But I think the
primary one is just that there isn't the standard of the Socratic method as being the process that
should be followed. You know, they talk about peer review. Well, that's interesting. It gives a kind
of power to groups of academics. But it hasn't really produced great scholarship,
certainly not in the New Testament zone. And it doesn't produce a process by which
the public can enter into, you know, it's so top down, it's so authoritative. It's really,
I just feel it's that one of the reasons why I'm just so delighted with the success of your show
is that really, if you just stand back and, you know, but what is myth isn't doing,
myth vision is restoring the Socratic method to New Testament scholarship.
And I want to spread the ideas for everybody, a mom, a dad, someone, a single mom at home who
has the inquisitive mind to be able to listen and while taking care of kids at home can listen
to something like this. She can't go to a college classroom. She can't enter into an academic school.
I want the layperson to hear ideas and to be able to go, okay, so one of the things,
getting into an example, Dr. Price talks about suffering servant ideas. I could see,
and this is using the Socratic method, I want to throw this out there to you. You might think
your position makes better sense for all the reasons of your study and everything. But
there's the idea of the suffering servant as like this is a motif. It's almost a good thing
where you and me would look at it and go, this is not a good philosophy to live by.
It's almost like every time Israel is conquered in the Hebrew Bible, like every nation had them
under control and they're just suffering. They're always getting beat up. They're this small little
vassal state. They're nothing, you know, compared to the empires of the world. And they're constantly
beat up. And the suffering servant prophecies are initially talking about Israel or possibly
an older Messiah sometime in the Old Testament, depending on the context, like Isaiah 53 or
whatever. Christians just, or the New Testament authors just reuse a lot of this typology.
The reason I'm mentioning this is there's multiple ways of interpreting the data that I find in the
New Testament. Yours is one of them. I'm not saying yours is less than or that theirs is less than or
theirs is better and yours is better. It doesn't matter. The point I'm saying is people need to
consider these ideas. And if the suffering servant idea is a motif where you and me would look at
and go, that seems kind of dark, like glory in your suffering. This is a good thing that looks kind
of bad. That can seem sinister and dark as though it's like a dark humor, or it can look like these,
this cult is developing out of this idea that me being a martyr, me suffering is actually a good
thing and God is going to glorify in that kind of mentality. Either way, in my mind, that's still
bad. I don't see that as a good thing to live by personally. I do think self-sacrifice is good,
especially for loved ones or good friends or to lay your life down to help people. Those are great
lessons, right? But the overall picture, or like the woman eating her child, right? Josephus. This
is a very interesting parallel. There's so many interesting things, a myth for the world. You
point this out and it's like, does that sound like Jesus? It sounds like Jesus to me. There is this
interesting notion though in the Dionysian cult and also in Osiris where they would ingest the
God. So the reason I asked if there was a way that it wasn't just a joke is that there's this weird
cult developing out of this suffering situation where they're actually digesting in their own
little cultic practice the God, the figure here. Now you would look and say, look, these people
suffered. They cannibalized their own kids and in Deuteronomy, there is this prophecy that in the
end of times when Israel ends up in this bad state, they're going to eat the womb. They're going to
eat the children, the flesh of their own womb and things like that. Horrific prophecies, but either
way, I'm not trying to say they actually are true as if they really prophesied this, but every time
something like this happens cannibalism comes on the scene. Here you have this scene in Josephus,
but you also have these mystery cults ingesting the divinity to partake in the divine.
Do you see that as compatible with what you're suggesting in your thesis?
Sure. And out of that comes, you know, how they broke out. I'm sorry.
The Romans had a thought world. They had a theological understanding and history of
different religions. They had mystery cults, obviously, that had
eating of the gods as part of their theology. So I think it's when they went to construct the
gospels, they just put together these elements. I mean, to me, it actually would explain why
these elements are inside the gospels better than, I mean, you can see where they come from.
They come from the Roman thought world, the Roman theological thought world,
and they combine it with their understanding of the Torah, but a particular way of bending the Torah.
I mean, what the gospels really are is they're trying to take the prophecies and theological
principles of Judaism, which produce the warrior Messiah, and move them in such a way, interpret
them in such a way so that they can exist within the Roman Empire without rebellion.
I think that's part of what the technique was, is to bring in a broader understanding of
the relationship between God and the individual. One that, for example, like Stoicism,
where you have Stoic ideas inside the gospels. Now, this was a very convenient philosophy
for the oligarchs of Rome in that they could then tell their slaves that the real task you have ahead
of you is to learn how to accept your plight, because if you do that, you'll achieve the greatest
happiness. And I think that's kind of that, which was actually religion or that is actually what
they're trying to do here. They're trying to just move the fundamentalism and very literal
interpretation of the Torah into one that's broader. You have to really stand back from
the gospels to see this clearly, but they have Jesus's pro-Roman character, and then he relives
so many of the Elisha feeding of the miracle of the loaves and fishes. I mean,
this is just taking the fundamental Jewish religion that was helping promote rebellion
and moving it into one that can ascribe to existence in the Roman Empire.
So, you know, you have to kind of go point by point to really sort of break this down clearly,
but just in general, I don't think there's any trouble at all between my theory and
the sort of the influence of other religions. In fact, I would say that's sort of part and parcel
of what I'm trying to say. Yeah, I mean, you brought it up before, and every time we have this
conversation, it refreshes my memory on things that you've discussed and your book is written on
something that just, if you don't mind me elaborating on this for a second,
this is one thing that is just amazing that I'm finding constantly with all other scholars,
Elaine Pagels, Steve Mason. I've even had Rabbi Tove, a singer, come on, not too long ago,
really fascinating, great guest. And they're all saying the same thing. They're all saying, Derek,
there is this anti-Semitic darkness that you do see in the New Testament. It's there,
you can't get rid of it. And if we were to use the consensus scholarship on Paul, and we go back
and say the earliest idea is of Paul spouting, Paul's not very pro-Jewish, okay? And I'm not trying
to say that he wasn't a Jew. Let's just go with the consensus and say the guy was a Jew. He was
potentially in the vein of these ideas. The thing is, he is stripping the identity. What we talked
about before hitting play, I was actually talking to a friend on the phone, and I think you caught
the ass end of that conversation, where Paul's hijacking these identity markers of ancient
Israel's story, ancient Israelite religion. And now he's applying them to Joe Schmo and Athens and
Corinth and Ephesus, and he's literally saying, we're taking this and I'm applying it to you.
You guys are chosen. You guys are Israel. You guys are the people of God. And one of the things
that gets me, I guess, and what you're saying here, there is kind of a syncretism, if you will, of
thought in what Paul's doing and other religious movements as well as Judaism blending this stuff.
But it does seem to fit when I read Second Temple Judaism literature. There's always this,
the ketim, or the ketim, the Gentiles, the ethne, they're always seen in a bad light. Almost always,
I'll say. You might find like the, the sibling oracles are pretty positive on Gentiles. It's
rare that you find any document that's Jewish in nature that has a positive outlook on the ethne,
the Gentile, the goyim. And yet you get to the New Testament and it's loaded. I mean, that's like,
it's central, it's central thing is these guys are good thumbs up. Now that's obviously, in my
opinion, why it would be, I guess you say, why it still exists, why this is something I think
that is promoted. If you took a ground up idea, which is the opposite of yours, and say that this
somehow was an evolutionary idea within Judaism or some form on the ground, you could make this
make sense, or it could be just as plausible that the political powers that be at the time
are influencing people on the ground level and making this something proactive. So it's not
either or so to speak. It could be a both and this discussion I had with Dr. Price and James
Valiant on the similar pro-Roman aspects. And he said, you know, it could be that the Romans were
involved in saying, look, let's give these guys a hand. We like that philosophy. It's obvious
were not them. Let's use them like you talk about the Herodians. So I look, a lot of this is
speculative, and it's okay that it is. But we're doing a Socratic thinking here and going, okay,
what's going on? And why is the New Testament? Why would a Gentile care?
Right. Well, that's a great question. I would, you know, like Paul, for example, is a good person
to put into the lens of the Socratic process we're in right now. And I think if you look at
that literature, his letters particularly, it becomes clear to me anyway that he's a fictional
character, that the idea that Paul existed and is not, you know, being produced by the same
literary droop that produced the character of Jesus seems really far-fetched to me. And it's
kind of sort of interesting to me, like how the idea of Paul's, you know, historicity is
accepted, whereas many people, you know, like contest the idea of Jesus, you know, they talk
about the myth of Jesus, but they also feel that Paul was real. This makes no sense to me. I mean,
first of all, really what someone needs to do to really kind of understand the Pauling literature
or to base in history is have an explanation for where the symbols come from. I mean, I'll just
give you an example of, like Paul talks about Jesus being our Passover, and he has, you know,
like descriptions of the Last Supper where Jesus is offering himself. Now, the human Passover lamb
is a post-war concept. Now, this has to be the case. You can, there is, well, first of all,
it's a blast theme. There is no basis in history for Paul having this concept if he doesn't get it
from the information, you know, that is given out in the Gospels. The human Passover lamb,
you know, if you read Caesar Messiah, you'll see that this is the central concept of the Gospels,
you know, that's the new covenant. You start out with a Passover lamb as you do in the
original covenant. Jesus is crucified in Passover 33. You have a 40-year cycle,
and then 40 years to the day you have the conclusion of the Roman-Jewish War,
Passover 73. Now, I'm sorry, but this just cannot be circumstance, so therefore you can see the
writing of the Gospels as opposed to some people talk about, you know, like, well, maybe Mark could
have been written, you know, in 68 or 66. I mean, this is preposterous. They just aren't,
they have no explanation for where the concepts come from. You can't really generate
the human Passover lamb before the war, because the covenant is a 40-year cycle
precisely aligned with the conclusion of the Roman War. And so this is the where that concept
come from. And central to that concept is Josephus' cannibal Mary passage. It's very much related to
what is the basis for the human Passover lamb in the Gospels, you know, how they were actually able
to create the concept. Paul has no explanation for it. He just uses the concept. But if you really
want to, when you analyze literature, you know, you really have to like have some sort of,
how they're generated. And in the case of the human Passover lamb, it's just very,
very clear cut. It is generated from the war. It's back calculated, the 40-year cycle. And now
going forward in Acts, you actually have clarification of this because they have the repeat of the
Pentecost, right? So the author of Acts who's familiar with Paul certainly has an understanding
of this cycle, of a new cycle of the new covenant. And therefore, this author is linking precisely
into the artificial 40-year cycle that was created post-war. This is actually why Dr. Price said
the first coming, he pretty much is making a similar point of why the first coming wasn't
official. Whether there was a character somewhere in the 30s that's like a white sheet of paper
that can be drawn upon, he said is irrelevant. The point he's making is this construct,
using the synoptic gospel approach, for example, clearly implying the temple's destruction, the
circling, the raising of the temple, etc. All of that is clearly 70 to 73. What you're talking about
here, they inserted a 40-year or a generation character just a generation back. It's like
9-11, me and you witnessed what happened here. Let's go 40 years prior to that, say this character
in 1970 or whatever it might be, and say that 40-year gap they inserted this character to fit the
bill. There's no other way you can time the ministry of the human Passover lamb,
except by calculating it from the Roman war. It's impossible. And of course,
then you have such precision as to hit the 40-year cycle to the day. I mean, it's preposterous.
In fact, I would say that the 40-year cycle from 73 Passover to 33 Passover is the clearest
explanation that Rome produced the Gospels. That's what I was going to ask you. If you don't mind,
and maybe you don't know off the top of your mind, where can we go to see that 73 Passover was
actually the day where it ended? There is the reason why it's classically understood is you
can date the first Passover. I'd have to go and actually look at it, but you'd have a timing of
16 years, because they have a particular date relative to Jesus' life, which then is able to
date the beginning of the ministry to 30, and now you have three Passover's. So that's why you go
to Wikipedia or to early Christian understanding of this. They would always say 33 because of
information generated just obviously right out of the information given in the Gospels. Then
with Josephus 73, that comes from Josephus himself. It was about three years after the fall of
Jerusalem that you had the fall of Masada, which he dates to Passover. Now, that date is sometimes
scholars say, well, there's some reason to believe it was 72 or 74. They don't necessarily agree,
even though it is the direct reading of the text, but they misunderstand Josephus because
Josephus gives you a very perfect way of dating the conclusion of the war in that he creates the
abomination of desolation. He actually aligns the midpoint of the week. Remember, the prophecies
of Daniel are also coming to pass inside with Josephus, and Josephus flat out says this. He says
the prophecies of Daniel are coming to pass. We have the end of the daily sacrifice. This is what
he talked about. Oh my God, this is just terrible. Winston, who was a Christian and did the translator
Josephus' work, which was so influential for all these years. He makes a huge deal about this. He
goes, this just proves that Jesus was real, could see into the future, because look, the abomination
of desolation is occurring exactly where it's supposed to be. It's about three and a half years
from the start of the war, and it is therefore three and a half years to the conclusion of the week.
You see, this is really like a very kind of mechanical way to understand how
Rome did produce the Gospels, is that you definitely have Josephus fictional. This
couldn't be a real event. At least the dating of it couldn't be real. He is dating the abomination
of desolation to the midpoint of the week, which then gives you the conclusion as
Passover 33. It's rough approximation, but believe me, it's close enough to not be
circumstantial. Now you have the understanding of the conclusion of prophecy being brought about
in Josephus' recording of the wars, but you also have a good way of understanding Paul,
because you can't really have that concept, the human Passover lamb, accidentally in Paul's literature
and then have it created later on in the Gospels. Then of course, his name, Tiny,
I think if you look at how he's given the name, I think it's obvious, Roman bulgar humor.
There are so many things about Paul. I write about him in Shakespeare's Secret Messiah.
That's actually the book that I go over Paul in the book of Revelation. Maybe after you read it,
we could have a discussion about it, but I think that getting back to you and Bob's discussion,
I think you're just absolutely right that Paul is another illustration of the pro-Roman
and sort of strange transmogrification of Jewish theology, which came now,
I think it can be at least positive, comes out of the imperial court of Rome.
Interesting. I wish more people would at least give you the time and day to consider what you're
saying, even if they disagreed with you or thought maybe I'm not certain that he's right about it,
right? Like me, I'm very cautious. I don't know Josephus in depth. I have not studied these things,
but what you're saying makes a lot of sense. It does make a lot of sense, and this is why
I'm trying to break those walls, those concrete walls that are extremely firm in how we're allowed
to think and what we need to consider, because what Paul's doing is so radically different.
Placing them in the 40s and 50s is tough. I could see both sides and understand why people would
think either way, but why not at least consider both sides? This is what I'm personally a fan of.
I honestly don't understand why people would automatically think Paul is a historical individual.
I think it's because the letters seem sort of just kind of realistic. He's tortured,
he's struggling. It doesn't seem like theology. But that isn't a perspective that would really
be very difficult to construct, would it? In fact, I think the Roman literary
team could have no trouble coming up with this literature. Basically, as I go into this in
Shakespeare's Secret Messiah, there's different impulses of Roman inserting stuff into the
Gospels. I mean, even Trajan, I think, ended up with the Timothy. He puts himself in there,
but certainly Domitian does. This is what Paul represents. Just as Titus comes up with Jesus
and you have this whole revelation about the divinity of his military campaign,
Domitian has the Paul. Then you have all these literary puzzles and things relating to
Domitian's history. It's far more complicated than the Gospel's typology, which is so simple to
follow. But it is there and it gives a good explanation for Paul. You have finally a way
of understanding where the concepts come from. Bear in mind, it's not just Paul's pro-Roman
perspective, but his use of the New Covenant and the human Passover land. This is a major
part of his work. There are books like Operation Messiah, and they talk about Paul as being a
Roman intelligent agent. But where does he generate his symbols from? I mean, it just does. There's
no way you can plug the human Passover lamb into the history of pre-Roman Jewish war. Human Passover
lamb is just absolutely, there's no explanation for such an idea. Whereas in the Gospels,
it's so clear cut. You see, so state of coherency and parsimony, it's got to be that the Pauline
letters were post-70. Interesting. You and Dr. Bob would share this similar idea on the post-70 AD
idea of Pauline literature and obviously taking two different accounts of how you guys do it.
I wanted to give you something interesting. I think you'll appreciate this, and this is quite
up the alley of something that I'm sure he doesn't draw any of the conclusions you do in the same
way. But I spoke to Dr. Bart Ehrman two days ago, did an interview with him again. We had a good
donor who made that possible. And he said he's working on writing a book about revelation.
And you know what he said? He said revelation is not a good book for Christians.
He said he's pretty much drawn, I think, some pretty dark conclusions about Christianity
out of the book of Revelation. So I can't wait to see what he has to say because wouldn't it be
funny if there's very similar conclusions in different ways, of course. You guys will probably
know. Yeah. I mean, I would be curious as to how he approaches it.
You know, he's someone who comes out of academia, and I don't want to be, I really
don't like to trash talk other scholars, but his stuff doesn't make any sense to me. The
criteria of embarrassment as a way of supporting the historicity of Jesus is far-fetched.
I mean, actually, I just think that the guys that want to take the position that Jesus is
historical, they, of course, have to overcome all of the typologic
passages which are not contested, right? Because obviously, you know, the miracle of loaves and
fishes didn't occur because it's okay. And obviously Jesus's pre-ministry didn't occur
because it's completely generated out of the, you know, the Moses story, right?
And so then you start going, well, neither did the baptism. That didn't happen because if you look
at John the Baptist, he's obviously just, you know, representing Old Testament characters and stuff.
And so you end up with very little that could even be historical. You see, this is the thing,
is that there was some passages that they couldn't really link into the Old Testament.
And so this was the basis, in fact, for the idea of Jesus being historical. But then when
Caesar Messiah was brought out, and you could see that actually these passages had their origins
in the Roman-Jewish war, well, suddenly the whole character of Jesus was, it just disappeared.
There wasn't really any historical basis for them. And, you know, I remember I asked about,
you know, like, what did Jesus exist? I mean, I always go, look, this is, this question is,
you know, cannot be answered. And it isn't really important, therefore. I mean, I hate to say this,
but it isn't really that significant because you can't really ever, you know, the idea that,
well, there was a Jesus, but he was embellished. How could this be falsified? I mean, you know,
embellishment is infinite. So there's no way to really falsify it. So the door to answer the question
is not significant. The question is, is what is the literature that we have? That's the question.
And here we can actually demonstrate that it's typological literature. There's no real history
in this story. There's all of these episodes that are made up of other stories that come from
someplace else. And you see, this question as to what is the literature has an answer. It is
typologic literature, tip to stern. And that is not a historical genre. I mean, you just, when you
write typology, you are not writing history. So that's the question that can be answered. And
that's the one that the public, I think, really needs to, you know, to come to an understanding
about. Because I think that, you know, Christianity, you know, the Christians deserve to have, as you
say, you know, like the whole story and make up their own mind about these things. But, you know,
they really do need to focus on the nature of what we have, the story. Where do they come from?
And once I think that the people can understand this typologic literature, then the question
about whether or not the character, it was historical, it becomes unimportant.
Joe, you always inspire me to want to look deeper, look harder. I have my own opinions as we speak,
but nothing's in concrete. You know, I'm not a mason, right? So I don't use concrete in my
buckets, if that makes sense. I do that on purpose because, you know, how hard it would be to take
a jackhammer to your own ankles to get the concrete off your feet. Oh boy. So I don't draw
serious staunch conclusions. I'm taking in what you're saying. It makes me want to go do some
research. I got to reread Caesar's Messiah. And what we might end up having to do, because you
oh, every time I read it, I've read it three times already. Every time I read it, I feel like I got
to do another episode with you because there's something we didn't freaking talk about. Yeah,
I know. You know, this is not my, I'm not being like, you know, like either a really good writer,
really terrible writer. It's the Romans. I mean, the people who constructed the Gospels were really
amazing kind of wordsmiths. They had a tremendous talent for literature and they worked really
hard on it. And so when you start getting into it as Roman typology, there's just so many levels
of it that start popping up that are, you know, you wonder, well, how deep does it all go? You
know, they're wordsmiths and their desire to create very deep kind of, you know, they wanted to,
I think, outdo the sort of mystery structure of the Jewish literature. And so there's just,
there really is a lot inside the Gospels, which I don't write about in Caesar Messiah. In Caesar
Messiah, honestly, what I tried to do was just to partition the simplest parts of what I was
trying to say and just get that out there. That's why in like the, in the second edition, I brought
out the Flavian signature, which, which just takes Luke and Josephus because Luke has more
parallels than either Mark or Matthew. And so I don't switch or jump between, you know, like
going from Mark to Matthew and then trying to show, well, here's how the chronology work.
I just roll out the two texts. I just roll out, here's Josephus, here's, here's the Gospels,
here you go. And then readers can just come to their own conclusion about whether or not there's
dependency. In my mind, it's just self-evident. The story of Jesus, the sequence, the locations,
you know, this is just coming right out of the Jewish war. Ladies and gentlemen, you gotta,
you gotta give Joe a round of applause. Get the book. It's unaudible as well. If you can't read
it on paperback, I've got the paperback as well as audio. You can listen to it while you're vacuuming,
while you're cleaning, doing the grass, whatever you're doing, driving. It's a must read. I absolutely
recommend anyone to go do it. This video will be released, obviously, early on my Patreon,
which helps me myth vision. Keep bringing you fine content like this because I want to stimulate the
thinking process for everyone who's watching to consider multiple angles and say, Hey,
can I roll that out? What makes more sense to me? I really loved what you said to hear today, Joe.
Look, like I said, I'm very cautious to draw serious conclusions, so I need to investigate
further and continue to study on this topic. But you have made me want to open up the book again
and reread it because it just makes me want to reinvestigate, especially when I have,
you know, people like Steve Mason, who come from the academic world. He left because of the
politics of, you know, the colleges and stuff that he worked for. But he just didn't want to
deal with the baggage. But he's an aria diet scholar. He reads these languages. He understands
them. And he recently said, we got to do a Luke Axe episode, how Luke Axe is using Josephus. So
I'm thinking to myself, like light bulbs and, you know, neurons are firing to my front of
liberal cortex saying ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, like Joe's onto something here. This isn't
stupid. This isn't just some conspiracy that isn't valid. Like there's something here. So
whether you draw Joe's conclusions completely, it's worth investigating. And I say that if you're
a consensus kind of person watching this video right now, go check it out. Wait till you see
Steve Mason. If you have to listen to a consensus scholar say that something's going on here,
well, that might be enough and nudge you over the edge to say.
I've always wanted you can arrange a discussion between Steve and myself. I'd appreciate it.
I've always liked his work. And I'm curious as to what he would make of just like just because
I don't want to I know he's busy. I would just like him to read the the Flavian signature
chapter and see how that plugs into his work because I have a feeling he'd be quite surprised
at the sequence, how powerful sequence is in relationship between the two literatures.
Wow. You sparked an interesting idea in my head. And you know me. I've got that silver
you are. So it actually gets things done for heaven's sake. You know, it's wonderful. And
tonight I just wanted to I didn't want to like, you know, not mention the gratitude that everyone
who is interested in for you, you know, and I mean, what you've done is really remarkable.
Your channel is really just broadening up New Testament scholarship wonderfully. And I think
it's you're really improving an important genre, but a really ossified giant like structure just
amazing. Thank you to me to see how when you get all of the your scholars, you know, in a sequence
and then have relationships that you really start to make improvements in the scholarship in general.
Hats off to you, buddy. Good job. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Don't make my head grow any
bigger. It won't fit in the screen. In fact, I was thinking we should try to, you know, make
kind of maybe deify you. It's, you know, like this would be the role and, you know, like we'd
have to go through the Senate to get a proclamation, but it wouldn't be a bad idea. No, you know,
my wife here in that she's going to go, okay, let's let's hold off on that. You better stop
right now. You know, no, seriously, Joe, I appreciate you, your friendship, your scholarship,
the ideas that you present. I'm not, you know, one of these guys who's, you know, you can't listen
to this guy unless he has a MD or a BA or a master's or PhD. No, I interview many ideas and you're
very, very intelligent in the way you approach this. Eisenman, you know, tag teamed with you a
long time. And I love Eisenman. Trust me, I need to read his book, by the way, is a large book.
A lot of people said I need to read, but I have to say in the later years of his life,
I tried interviewing him and it's very, very difficult to, but people like your patience
was wonderful. I'm glad that you were able to stick through it. But Eisenman's just Eisenman,
he's a maverick and it's tough to pierce the armor on him and it takes someone like
psychologically to maneuver while you're interviewing him to try and like allow him
to get the best out of him. But he's up there in age and I wish his mind was still the same it was
20 years ago. We all get old, buddy. So that's why you want to get these. That's why you really
need to work quick if you're going to get all of these ideas. But it's a process. Christianity
has been around and has been so powerful. The ideas of this coming from history and not as
fictional literature have had just such power for the last 2000 years,
really good to open it up. And I honestly think if misvision just grows in a steady rate, you'll
start to actually have some changes in how the scholarship functions, which will be great. It'll
be more socratic as you said. It'll be more open to different ideas. I think it's necessary and I
think that eventually colleges will start to realize that the medium, the real medium is this. Is
this platform, is the online platform because the in-person going and having a lecture bias,
I'm not downplaying that. That's all necessary. An important part of the process and stuff that's
great. I'm just saying I think they're going to find out what's really going to take over is this
online medium in a different way. It's so boring. I mean, you've been to these New Testament classes.
They're just because in an hour where you've got an entire course, they tend to focus on microscopic
things. And the real way to do this for the public is to have all of the scholars have an
opportunity, but don't give them any more than an hour at a time so that they will give out their
best ideas, their most coherent ideas. The idea is that the public can relate to. I just think
your interviews are fascinating. I mean, they are really interesting and that's why you're
getting such popularity, but there is obviously highly technical aspects of the Gospels, the
New Testament, but there should be synopsis. There should be like generalities. There should be some
kind of wisdom and interesting things that come out of the research that then they can reach
out to the public with because the public isn't going to go into like three years of training in
Greek to be able to get into the battle between Mason and some other Josephine scholar because
it's just too technical. If their ideas are valid, they can be generalized. They can be put out in a
way that the public can get interest in them and connect to them and get value out of them. So this
is what I think is really going on with mythism is you're reaching, you're trying to get New
Testament scholarship into the public world where it has value there. It isn't just some kind of
little academic fiefdom and so everything which are really a very little importance, frankly.
The broad scope, this is a broad stroke religion. We need broad stroke discussions from the experts
and this is what you're doing. It's wonderful. Yeah, one of the goals is to let the audience
live vicariously through my thinking process as well. We do, we do. Yeah, that's the goal.
I want you to think like, what's Derek thinking and did you see Derek's facial expressions there?
I just think you're just bringing out the best ideas, the most interesting ideas,
the ideas that connect to the public more than the technical stuff. The technical stuff has to
be there, obviously, to support it all, but at some point you want to have something as communicable
to the public. I get an argument, it's like one of the, you get the sense that the academics
have at the back the idea that they will become public intellectuals, that they're going to end
up because of their scholarship having some stature in the public, which hopefully will give them
some like money, right? But okay, that's fine. But if you want, that should not,
but to do that, you have to come up with some ideas which can connect to the public. You have to
have a synopsis, something that is actually understandable. And it just seems so often that
they are confused by the fact that their technical understanding and contest that they're having over
the Greek particles isn't making them a public intellectual. Bart Erdman actually does a pretty
good job of kind of coming up with ideas that the public at least finds interesting. And I think
he rarely debates. When Cedric Masai started getting popular, he came out with a statement that
even like his students would win a debate with me. And I got a hold of him and I said,
gee, that's a great idea. Why don't we have a discussion, Bart? Unfortunately,
you know, if you want to get a discussion with Bart, it costs a lot of money. So it didn't happen.
But anyway, I just think that that was an example of what is great about myth vision is that you
provide, it's like, look, you really have this, you know, like, you know, kind of reasoning that
someone's approach is incorrect. Look, you can have it, there are now is a venue. You don't have to go
through renting a hall, getting, you know, like assignments from the university, you know, for
the time off and things like that. You can say, hey, you want to talk, let's get up, let's have
this discussion. So this is people that are watching this stuff, want to actually see it.
Yeah, for sure. Exactly. Yeah. I think I made this prediction. You will, this is true. I actually
did this. I said, you were going to be like, remember, I said this like over a year ago. I said,
I think your approach is correct. I think you're going to be the most popular thing in New Testament
scholarship within a few years. And you know what? I'm sticking with my prediction. I think you're
about a year out and, you know, because this is just the right approach and no one else is doing
it. So I was going to ask you if you were interested in being adopted into the family and
me call you Joe Outwell Lambert and you take my last name because these prophecies, Mr. Joseph,
the dreamer, you know, you got to admit, Derek, I did actually, you really did on the phone.
People don't even know this. I walk in at my mother-in-law's in the backyard talking to Joe and
he's like, Derek, I'm telling you, man, I'm telling you, keep it up with this show. You're
going to see me and I'm thinking to myself, well, since I'm now the emperor, it's very important
that I look out for my my prophetic, you know, but the thing is, I knew I really knew Testament
scholars well because I'd had like exchange of so many of them, you know, I mean, I was sort of the
guilty pleasure of a lot of people who didn't, they would go, well, I can have a communication with
you. You can't ever let anyone know that I'm talking to you. This would happen all the time.
You know, so I knew kind of knew them pretty well, but I also knew the public appetite.
Yeah, because that that I really, you know, because I'd seen this. And so I said, you know,
there's really no one else that could do this for a number of reasons. And so anyway, I, you know,
we can can't go on too far praising you because no, but I knew I knew that this was the right
offer. This is what the public wanted. And this is what the scholars needed. They needed this. So
anyway, it was, you got both sides now to, you know, to be in a better, in a better system. And
it's, it's going to, it's just going to grow and grow. Well, let's just keep growing it and make
the connections happen. Don't forget to get Joe Atwell's book, Caesar's Messiah, Flavian edition,
of course, I'm going to talk to Steve Mason, Dr. Steve Mason, my good friend. So we can't set
up that discussion. Joe, thank you. This is a lot of fun. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it,
buddy. Absolutely. And ladies and gentlemen, do not forget we are MythVision.
