Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
The entire point of Mormonism was to write the Book of Mormon as a history of the Christian Native Americans that would cause them to convert to Christianity.
At which point they would fall into line into the ranks of Mormons with Joseph Smith as their supreme leader who can do no wrong.
And Joseph Smith would cobble together all of these disparate and disenfranchised and suppressed and removed Native American groups in these various reservations all across the west of America, which was everything west of the Mississippi at this point,
and codify and bring them all together unto a single Mormon army and use that Mormon army together with the freed slaves to overthrow the American government and establish the Mormon theocracy.
This is Joe's grand plan. This is the Joseph Smith Mormon Revolution. This is why his very first missionaries preached to Native Americans first. That was their first mission was to preach to Native Americans in the Caw Township in Missouri,
in independence or just outside of independence. This is in Jackson County, Missouri. The Mormons were preaching there and they were also, Missouri was a slave state.
They were also preaching to slaves and teaching slaves how to read by the Book of Mormon, the way that Christian missionaries do with the Bible today in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Which, incidentally, was hugely illegal at the time.
Very illegal. Absolutely. Because that was the first step to a slave revolution. And slaveholders, the white people in control of the country, really didn't want a slave revolution.
This was a time when white rich people feared black people. It's hard to imagine.
Too real, David. Too real, man.
Yeah, 200 years. So much has changed. Anyway.
Yes. That was an existential threat to the powers that be, right? And Joseph Smith wanted to leverage these disenfranchised people in order to create his own government, his own theocracy.
This was his grand plan all along. And this is not secret. This is not something that is unknown. This is deeply ensconced in Mormon theology.
This is one of the tenets. The articles of faith is that Zion, the new Jerusalem, will be built on the American continent.
That Christ will reign personally. That the earth will be renewed and receive its paradise.
And the only reason that I can recite that word for word is because I had to memorize that as a requirement in primary.
They teach this theocratic revolutionary apocalypticism to children.
And then those children grow up and leave the church and continue to teach the younger and younger kids this same revolutionary rhetoric.
And it all started with Joe.
The science fiction writer in me thinks, wow, we could have had a Utah the size of the United States in before the Civil War ever happened.
That's an alternate history for you. I'm dying to know.
I want to put something on the screen. And this is a bit of a precursor of what we can expect in the future.
If we're able to get into the Utah era of the church, this is a map of the nation of desert.
If you can see here, we have there's Utah, there's Nevada, there's Oregon, there's California reaching all the way down to Mexico.
There is Arizona, there's New Mexico, there's Colorado, there's Wyoming.
That was Brigham Young's theocracy after Joseph Smith's death.
It's not science fiction, David, it's history.
That's how dangerous these things are, because that was the size of Brigham Young's theocracy.
The only reason that Joseph Smith wasn't able to do it is because he was assassinated before he could carry out his plans.
So stick around for the rest of the series if you want to hear how that goes.
And let's put a pin in that. Remember what Brigham Young was doing while the Civil War was raging.
He was out there in the West waiting for both sides to destroy each other.
Exactly. So that he could march his, his Navi Legion all the way east and take over the ruins of the America.
That was Brigham Young's plan, was buy at his time until the North and the South killed each other.
So, okay, anyway, that's, that's all way, way in the future.
That's, that's a couple of decades ahead of where we are now, right?
So all of these, these tensions are building up between the Missourians and the Mormons.
They had been relieved because the Mormons had been kicked out of Jackson County.
And Governor Lilburn Boggs had said, okay, I'm going to create a new county called Well County.
That's Mormon County. That's where all you Mormons go. That's your land. You settle there, you improve the land.
That's yours. You get it free and clear. That's totally cool.
I'm not even going to charge you for it. Just settle the land, right?
And once again, this is because there's a huge windfall of empty vacant property because of Andrew Jackson's Indian Removal Act, right?
So the Indian Removal Act was signed in 1830. It didn't actually become enforced until 1834, 35, 36.
It was up to his predecessor, Martin Van Buren, to truly execute the Indian Removal Act.
And that's when the Trail of Tears happens, right? And that begins opening up all of this land in the south, in the west, and everywhere.
And natives are pushed further and further west and killed, murdered. This is genocide, right? This is genocide.
The white European settlers, the Mormons specifically, were all the beneficiaries of this genocide.
So Missouri wants it to be a slave state. They want America to be a slave nation because slavery is super great for the people who own the slaves.
The Mormons are largely Yankees. They're largely Northerners. They're wigs. They're not the Southern Democrats who are the slaveholders.
States' rights people, they are the wigs. They are the progressives. They are the industrialists of their day.
So there are political tensions between the Missourians and the Mormons, and there had been since the Mormons started settling there in 1831.
1833, the Missourians kicked the Mormons out and Lilburn Boggs makes Caldwell County, the Mormon County, and tensions kind of simmer.
They're not resolved, but they don't boil over. It just kind of simmers. The problems between the Missourians and the Mormons, they're still there.
They haven't actually resolved anything, but nothing is aggravating the tensions.
Until...
Until Joseph Smith gets there.
Because the dude refuses to give up on his grand plans. His Mormon revolution starts in Missouri, and the Missourians know this because the Mormons are printing this crap and they're printing press that the Missourians destroyed.
Can I read you some?
Please, yes, please do, please do. Yes, yes.
So the church papers printing commandments from God for the saints to, quote, assemble yourselves together to rejoice upon the land of Missouri, which is the land of your inheritance, which is now the land of your enemies.
And that they would...
Inheritance and enemies, right? That's biblical language of God's chosen people, of the Jews, right?
Not a paraphrase, exact quotes.
Exact quotes.
And that they would literally, exact quotes again, literally tread upon the ashes of the wicked after they are destroyed from off the face of the earth.
End of quote.
The Mormons were printing that from their own printing press in Missouri, right?
That anyone could read.
Anyone could read. They were handing these things out on the street corners, right?
It's no wonder the Missourians hated the Mormons because the Mormons, they were treating the Missourians land as their promised land from God and they were going to take it by force.
Literally.
And they were...
I was going to say, they also were very clannish. They would like only trade with each other.
There were all kinds of ways they were kind of cutting the Missourians out.
Yeah.
Yeah. Very isolationist as well.
And one way to harbor or to foster good feelings among people is to trade with them, to commiserate and to go to school with them and to attend the same churches.
The Mormons are isolationists.
That isolationism comes from elitism.
They have the one true gospel and the Missourians are graced with the presence of the Mormons.
It sounds like what we find biblically in especially Ezra type.
Israelite.
Yeah. We're holy people. We're separate people.
Peculiar.
Peculiar, yeah.
And they didn't learn the same things as the others the way. I mean, Hellenism actually helps soften that, which is really good.
So, yeah.
Dude, I mean, look, let's be honest, right?
So if you're not an educated person, you don't know there are various forms of Muslim faith, right?
So you can easily see how a hick down south might hear that the Sharia law might come.
And while I heard in their book that if they live in a land, it's going to be given to them by God Almighty and they're going to conquer it.
Well, that could be prophetically there.
But if you know there are very tamed versions of the Muslim faith that aren't really militant minded, you can probably see why there are people who are radical on each side.
Anyway, I want to say that to say.
And it says the white European settler who is the beneficiary of Manifest Destiny.
Right.
Holy shit.
Bingo.
Yeah. It's it's this is ridiculous.
Yeah.
This is the mainstream opinion of every white guy you bump into on the street.
Yeah.
This is crazy, man.
So I don't know that I would think war rumors of war, you know, they're thinking in times, craps going on and everybody better get their weapons and get ready.
Yeah.
And that adds into this as well because Mormonism is a militant and apocalyptic sect.
They believe the end is coming.
Right.
And if you read any of the Evening in the Morning Star or the Elder's Journal or any of the Mormon periodicals because they were they were propaganda machines.
They always had multiple printing press churning out propaganda.
But all of them talk about natural disasters going on and politicians that are corrupt and and, you know, religions that are growing and collapsing.
And they all talk about the new things and they don't say it explicitly like and the Lord says that there will be wars and rumors of wars and pestilence.
But it's printing those things because that plays into that same narrative.
Yeah.
So to zoom back into a bit more of the micro.
Joseph Smith gets to Missouri and there is a vicious power struggle.
And one of the main problems was the High Council that was in Kirtland that that, you know, war and parish essentially controlled the High Council had excommunicated Joseph Smith.
And the apostles who had fled to Missouri with Joseph Smith had some questions for the Lord about whether or not the High Council's decision in Kirtland was the same for the High Council in Missouri whether or not the decision of the High Council there stood for the High Council in Missouri.
So, Joseph Smith gives a convenient revelation in January 1838.
He says, All right, so it's in the form of question and answer and a lot of Joseph's some of Joseph Smith's revelations are question and answer.
Somebody, one of his counselors or Sidney Reagan or whatever is asking him a question and he's answering as God.
So here's, here's a little bit from this revelation.
A question asked of the Lord concerning the trying of the first presidency of the Church of Latter-day Saints for transgression, according to the item of law found in book of convenience, whether the decision of such and counsel of one steak shall be
conclusive for for Zion and all the stakes.
Answer, thus say at the Lord at the time has now come when a decision of such a council would not answer for Zion and all her stakes.
So basically, Joe says, as the mouthpiece of God, that decision for the High Council in Kirtland, it's only for the Kirtland Church.
And in this revelation, I'm not going to read the whole thing because it's long, it's, you know, three handwritten pages single space.
So the conclusion of this revelation is the, the council, the High Council in Zion in Missouri needs to hold its own hearing to determine whether or not the first presidency was in transgression for them as well.
So that's right. That's right.
He takes this brand spanking new revelation that he had right as he was fleeing Kirtland.
He takes this revelation and brandishes it to the presidency in Missouri, which is once again, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer is president and his counselors are John Whitmer and Oliver Cowdery, right.
Witnesses to the Book of Mormon high ranking members of the church there since day one.
And there is a vicious power struggle that lasts for two months.
Add into this, the people that, yeah, go ahead, David.
I was going to say, Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Ridden hate each other because Oliver Cowdery hated the way that Sidney wormed his way into the church became the number two guy that was Oliver Cowdery's place.
Yeah, so there's, yeah, they've been at loggerheads for a while now.
And let's not forget they're fleeing to Missouri because the other council wanted to murder Joseph murder him.
Yes, exactly.
Add into this another complicating factor more scandals.
Right. Oh my gosh.
Yeah, so one thing about this.
There was no interstate police force right so if you have a warrant for your arrest, like say because you have absconded with people's money or you have fled across state lines while you owe a bunch of people thousands of dollars.
Nobody is bringing is going to arrest you and bring you back into Ohio to answer for those debts or to answer that arrest warrant and to, you know, for the criminal hearing or whatever the case is, unless you have an extradition warrant signed by the governor of the state.
Right.
So, as soon as you cross state lines, you can be the biggest, craziest criminal and you cross the state line and you're fine.
Right. As long as bounty hunters aren't able to get you, you're never going to answer for those crimes and Joseph Smith used that part that that lack of an interstate police force very conveniently throughout his entire life.
And this is one of those times if he stayed in Ohio, he would have gone to jail or he would have been assassinated or who knows what he would have been in debt or jail for the rest of his life because he owed an insurmountable amount of money and he didn't have any income except his followers
who were fighting. Right. I mean he owed over a million dollars of 2020 money to various people. He was never going to get out from under that debt, unless he just fled the state.
So, there's that and there's also the family that Joseph and Emma lived with when they fled to Missouri as soon as they got there was George and Lucinda Harris.
We got to talk about Lucinda.
Okay.
Is this Lucinda Pendleton Morgan Harris? Is that a name that rings true for you, David?
Keep going. Keep going. Yeah.
Okay. All right. A little background. Lucinda Pendleton Morgan was a bit of a celebrity nationwide. And that is because her husband was named William Morgan.
Her husband William Morgan in 1825 wrote an expose of masonry and it was set to be published in 1826.
This is a time when the conversations nationwide of masonry were very much in the public eye and were used as one of the primary criticisms against Andrew Jackson while he was running for president.
Because there was actually anti-masonic political parties. Exactly.
Yeah. Yeah. So there was the conversation within masonic circles of masonry and spurious masonry of the masonry that men will use as like a political design or as a party in order to just affect their own personal interests.
That's the spurious masonry whereas there's like the enlightened or their pure masonry that is the tokens and the signs and the symbols and the degrees and everything else.
And this is all much more important when we get into the novel, but we have to introduce this now. So William Morgan joins masonry and he writes this expose.
Now, notably masonry has death oaths. If you reveal the secrets of masonry, then you agree to have your life taken, right? You slit your throat, you disembowel yourself, or you make those symbols as if you're agreeing to somebody doing those things if you reveal the secrets.
It becomes important later.
Yes, very much so. So William Morgan is set to publish this expose in 1826 in New York and this is less than 20 miles from Joseph Smith's hometown of Palmyra, Manchester.
He is set to publish this and he goes missing. His book is with his publisher, but he goes missing. He's arrested by some masons and then he's, it's feared that he is murdered by masons because he's about to publish this expose.
His publisher goes.
Is like right and this is his publisher, his publisher, his publisher goes through with publishing it.
And it's a fascinating expose. I'd recommend it's only like 75 pages or something, but you can find a William Morgan's. It's a, I can't remember the title of it because it's like the paragraph or the title is like an entire paragraph like all expose
of the 1800s, but it's it's William Morgan's 1826 expose a free masonry.
So he's feared murdered, but his wife is Lucinda Pendleton Morgan.
And she becomes a bit of a celebrity among anti Masonic circles because there's the anti Masonic groups and anti Masonic political parties and anti Masonic newspapers that invite her to give public speeches about how damaging masonry is because it murdered her husband.
Well, Lucinda more Pendleton Morgan joined Mormonism in the early 1830s, and she married a guy named George Harris, who was a very good friend of Joseph Smith.
So they were living in Missouri and Joseph and Emma Smith, move in with the Harris's that was their landing pad as soon as they get out to Missouri because they don't have anywhere to live.
And at this time, Lucinda and Joseph Smith become very good friends become very good friends.
And as is the case with rural marriages, when he lives with somebody, you know, he takes a liking to their wife or their daughter or daughters, and they get married.
So this is also yeah.
Yeah, but they don't get married married because that's still not a thing yet, officially.
It's sort of this, but no one seems to know about it, but him and her then the woman in question, and maybe a handful of other leader types. Yeah.
Right. There's there's dispute about this right so this is like the with Fanny Alger there's no question it's it's an affair right.
But there was a marriage ceremony performed for Lucinda and Joseph there wasn't any of the language of the ceiling and of the polygamy revelation and the law of Sarah or anything that was later created in a view.
But there was an actual marriage ceremony between the two.
And have a whole episode just on this doctor.
Hold on.
Yeah, hold on.
Hell, hold on.
So they move in with the celebrity type chick who has a husband. Yes.
Right.
Yes.
Okay.
George Harris.
Okay, she's remarried to George Harris.
He's still married to his first wife.
Joseph Smith is still married to his George.
Is she coming with him to this house?
Yes.
They live in the same house.
So they're together and he then marries the married woman.
At the same time she's married to George Harris.
Spiritually marries her.
What does George Harris say about this?
I'm telling you we're going into the weeds.
This is okay.
I got it.
I just mean, you know, we're like,
George Harris agreed to it.
Which is evidence that the concept.
We're done.
We're done.
Sorry, we're signing out.
When it's a profit, it's a whole different thing.
But yeah, there's, yeah.
We need to do a whole.
We could do a whole cuck episode of this show.
Right.
Well, and you know, there's, it's,
polygamy in general is so come Mormon polygamy is so complicated.
Right.
But it, that leads many scholars to believe that the concept of
celestial marriage and of sealing and these,
these concepts that are very well widely practiced in Nauvoo,
we're making their way into Joseph's mind at this time,
that he was beginning to create,
to fabricate this concept of celestial families and of,
of infinite ceilings and of humans becoming gods and exaltation
and making their own planets and so on and so forth.
That this is where those concepts begin to enter Joseph's mind.
And that polygamy is part and parcel with all of these deeper and
more esoteric forms of Mormon theology.
So this is many, many historians say like, yeah,
who aren't like the party line Mormon historians who are much more
unlike the not believing spectrum will say, well, yeah,
if any Alger was an affair,
but like the concept of polygamy of the polygamy doctrine was at
least there with the Lucinda and Joseph marriage here in 1838.
This is like his first within the con or within the covenant,
within the doctrine, within the endowment version of polygamy.
Yeah.
Marriage.
Hmm.
Yeah.
Anyway, so that's another thing, right?
Long rabbit trail, but that's,
that's a harbinger of what will,
it will become a very common discussion topic in the Nauvoo era.
Violent sex.
Mormon story.
Yes.
That's exactly right, man.
Game of stones.
I'm telling you.
So, so there's this vicious power struggle going on as well.
And some people are aware that, that there's something going on with
Lucinda and Joseph and that what was going on with Fanny was not just a
one off, but that this is a long running pattern of Joseph's
mislife because there was Eliza Winters of which I don't think we
even discussed like a week after he got married to Emma.
There were the stole daughters back in 1830.
There's stuff.
We can't, we can't do it.
We'll do a whole episode just on that.
I think we really should.
We really, we really should do a separate episode.
If you have to touch on it, cause it's important during the go,
just touch on it, but say cliffhanger.
If you into the show, we'll do, we'll do something,
but I want to ask you one more thing before we move past this woman,
this guy and their spirit marriage, which is crazy.
And we're about to get into some stuff.
There's a war about to happen.
Some shits going down.
What does his wife think Emma Smith?
Does she have any negative turn?
I mean, she didn't like the maid.
She made a big deal out the main, right?
I mean, like your ass right out the door onto the street. Yeah.
Well, so what about this chick?
Is it like, did he say, well, no, no, no, no,
there's no real physical stuff going on.
Or is she finally opening up and saying he's,
he's just not monogamous.
I'm just going to have to accept him for who he is.
Now Derek.
Yeah.
Okay.
So Emma is.
Okay.
So the best biography of Emma is written by Linda Newell
and Val Avery.
It's titled Mormon enigma.
And it is the hands down best biography of,
of Emma and it was written in the 1980s at a time when the church.
Completely said nothing about Joseph Smith being doing polygamy.
And they try their best to deal with Emma's opinions and thoughts on
polygamy.
But it's Mormon enigma for a reason because Emma left very few
writings of her own.
She is, she's really hard to nail down.
And I tend to disagree with a lot of historians about where her
mind and mentality is with all of polygamy.
Okay.
So needless to say that is a massive can of,
of purple worms that we,
we can't really get into because we'll talk about nothing,
but Emma for the rest of the episode.
Okay.
And that needs to be standalone part of the polygamy.
And we need to do that because it is.
Yeah.
It is good.
And thank you.
And it is, and because it,
it touches on some much more controversial and,
and more nuanced aspects of polygamy that,
that are, that we, we have to give voice to,
but we can't do it properly here. So.
Okay. So back on track, you're at their house,
he marries his chick, whatever the hell that means,
we'll find out later.
And he's in Missouri though. He's there.
Do they know he's coming? They know he's about to come.
Like what's up?
They know he's on.
They know he's on his way and they are basically getting ready to
receive the profit and have their own hearing of him.
A vicious power struggle ensues and Joseph Smith decides to take the
firebrand method.
And he purges the Missouri leadership.
And he doesn't just,
just purge them by saying you're out.
He gives them 72 hours to leave town.
And that's it.
The only way that he enforces this and gives them notice is by
forming the daughters of Zion,
which becomes the Danites.
What? It's not.
Oh,
it sounds so nice.
You're going to have to explain what this is briefly.
I mean, we've got,
the daughters of Zion.
Yeah. We've got like 26 minutes. So.
Oh no, really?
Yes.
We're already more than halfway, bro. So.
Okay.
Just briefly, but give me enough that I know what that is.
What's that even a militia? Is it?
David, yeah, this is, this is all on you.
No, no, put it all on me, but let's jump in because we've got
enough to fill 26 minutes for sure.
So the daughters of Zion or the sons of Gideon or the sons of,
become the sons of Dan or for short, the Danites,
which is ostensibly it's a Joseph Smith's bodyguard because
that's what started was when he started getting death threats from
his own church.
And they were the, the guys like Samson and Avard,
like Porter Rockwell, big bad mo foes that nobody messed with
because they were these whole gunfighter dudes who would shoot
you dead and not even blink, you know, and not even feel bad about
it.
They became this group called the Danites and it went from
bodyguard to secret police to,
to thought police, I should say,
assassin squad.
Assassin squad. Exactly. Exactly.
And I'm debating how much I want to say about that before we get
into the Mormon war.
Well, this is, this is all part of the Mormon war, right?
Because the tensions between the Missourians and the Mormons are
cool with the Missouri leadership.
Joe purges the leadership.
The problems with the Missourians and the Mormons come from Joseph
Smith to begin with.
And when he purges the Missouri leadership, the Missourians are
like, wait, hang on, we, we had an agreements.
We, like, we had agreements that you, your Caldwell is the
Mormon County.
And those guys are cool.
We're cool with them.
But Joseph comes into town and he starts sending out his Mormons to
go settle in Carroll County and in DeWitt County.
And in,
far west.
Yeah.
Well, and far west is Caldwell.
But in various counties that are not the Mormon County anymore.
So Joe immediately comes in, he starts violating all the treaties
that we're keeping the tensions at a simmer.
And everything begins to heat up.
Right.
And Samson Avard is the head of all this.
Yes.
He brought to Joseph a secret plan to defend the faithful by
forming this covert paramilitary band under his complete command with
secret signs and passwords.
It's members sworn to secrecy, pledged to rob, pillage, lie, or kill
if necessary, and bound to each other with severe oaths of dire
punishments.
It was their mission was to defend the saints against aggression to
act as bodyguard for the presidency.
And best of all, the Sydney Rigdon, they would serve as secret police to
root out heretics.
Yep.
And go ahead.
Oh, this is, this is when Joe begins to trend very militaristic because
he writes what's known as the Danite manifesto, right?
And this is the Danite is a paramilitary organization that is
structured and stratified with various companies, right?
And there's the regulator company.
There's, and Porter Rockwell is put as head of the destroying angel
company.
And there are these various companies that are tasked with certain
things of thought policing of actual policing of assassins of
intimidating elected officials of, you know, being Joe's personal
bodyguards, right?
So, you know, Samson of Vard drafts up this Danite manifesto and it's
signed.
And this Danite manifesto is written to Oliver Cowdery, David
Whitmer, John Whitmer, the presidency there, as well as William
Phelps and a Lyman E. Johnson.
And we don't have time to get into those guys.
How many people real quick are in the Danites at this point?
You're going into Missouri, he has to get what he has, like just the
small amount of people he probably has right now from what it's going to
lead up being down the road.
How many would you say are total on his side?
There's about 70 Danites, actual like oath sworn blood oath Danites.
But this is a separate sort of from the army of Israel and the army
of Israel was Joe's open and overt military force.
The Danites were the shadow military force and the army of
Israel was possibly as many as a thousand men.
Let me give you another quick quote from Samson of Vard.
He demanded that his men support the presidency in all their
doings right or wrong.
And he warned that if I meet one damning or cursing the presidency,
I can curse them too.
And if he will drink, I can get him a bowl of brandy.
And then after a while taken by the arm, get him at one side in the
bush, well, I will into his guts in a minute and put him under the
sod.
And you know, with loyalty like that, Joseph gave him carte blanche to
do whatever they want to as far as pillaging, killing and whatever
it took to against the Gentiles or against their own people.
Right.
And so this is the part of the Danite manifesto that gives the
leadership in Missouri 72 hours of leave town.
It says, we have solemnly warned you and that in the most determined
manner that if you do not cease that course of want and abuse of
the citizens of this county, which is telling the people that
Joseph Smith is a fallen prophet.
That's what it's talking about.
That vengeance would overtake you sooner or later and that when it
did come, it would be as furious as the mountain torrent and as
terrible as the beating tempest.
But you have affected to despise our warnings and pass them off with
a sneer or a grin or a threat and pursued your former course.
Once again, I'm telling people that Joseph Smith is a fallen prophet.
That's what that's what their former course is.
Right.
Or another way telling the truth.
Yes, exactly.
And vengeance sleepeth not neither does it slumber.
And unless you heed us this time and attend to our request, it will
overtake you at an hour when you do not expect and at a day when you
do not look for it.
And for you, there shall be no escape for there is but one decree
for you, which is depart, depart or a more fatal calamity shall be
fall you.
Bum bum bum.
Wow.
Right.
Wow.
Joseph Smith is not a cool guy.
He is a monster.
He's leaning way into this militarism.
I think he knows at this point he's lost a church.
He's lost power.
You know, people like him, they can't lose power, bro.
They can't.
That's more important than money.
That's, that's, you know, money's been great, but now he's got people
worshiping him practically.
Like it's like, so.
And he's done talking about it.
Now's the time for action.
He about to be about it.
Yeah.
And I will say a lot of believing historians who want to paint Joseph
Smith as, you know, the pious guy that he was as this enlightened,
you know, theologian as the, the prophets here and revelator of God.
They put all this stuff at the feet of Samson of art and Sydney
Rigdon.
And like Joseph Smith basically never said anything to stop it,
but the, none of it was actually his idea, which is stupid.
That's, that's apologetic and it's lying.
This is Joe's ideas. These, these are Joe's ideas and these guys are
all feeding each other these bad ideas.
And, and Joseph Smith, meanwhile, is denying this in public completely,
even to the effect of saying, Oh no, sons of Dan, that's just a figure of
a speech, you know, there's, there's not a real thing.
There's not a secret army of assassins and murderers working for me.
No.
Exactly.
So Sydney Rigdon is also a one of the movers and shakers, right?
So Joseph Smith is really charismatic on a one to one basis.
Right.
And that causes people to be very polarized, either love him or hate him,
but everybody's got an opinion about him.
Sydney Rigdon is a guy who can move the masses.
He is somebody who his forte, his party trick is talking to a group of a
thousand people and having them all in tears one moment and grabbing their guns
the next moment.
That is what Sydney Rigdon is valuable to Joseph Smith for.
So Sydney Rigdon plays into this rhetoric, right?
The Danai manifesto is signed.
These guys flee town because they're given 72 hours or vengeance of fatal calamity
shall befall them.
They run out of town.
And all of them are now forever defected from the church with the exception
of William Mines Phelps, who comes back as a prodigal son.
But they're like, this is, this is a massive windfall of all these leaders
just being purged from the church.
And Sydney Rigdon leans into this and he gives what's known as the salt sermon
where he says that the salt that has lost its saver is good for nothing,
but to be trodden underfoot, which means, hey, the, the leadership of this church,
this is the leadership of this gospel.
We are the salt of the earth, but some have lost their saver and they are good
for nothing but to be trodden underfoot, which is, it's not even like,
it's not even a veiled death threat.
It's a straight up death threat.
That's exactly what this is.
So that's what's going on with the inter politics of the church and with the
leadership itself.
But there's also a whole lot going on with the Missourians because once again,
Joe got into town and he's violating all the treaties and he's making all the
Missourians super duper mad at him again.
And he's trying, he's sending out more missionaries to more Native American
groups, trying to get them to rally behind him and help him overthrow Missouri.
He wants to start his Mormon revolution in Missouri.
The Missourians aren't a big fan of that because they are the victims of this
Mormon revolution.
So they're not being coy about it.
They are saying, yeah, this is the land of your enemies.
We're going to take it and utterly destroy them.
Absolutely.
So the Missourians, they're the recipients of all of this abuse as well.
And they don't want any part of these Mormons.
Like they didn't, they didn't ask for the Mormons to come settle there.
They just showed up one day and we're like, this is our land.
The Missourians are really mad.
And like the local citizens are beginning to send complaints up to their
militia leaders and to their elected politicians.
And all this stuff is filtering up into the highest ranks of the government
and especially to the governor, right?
Brief bit about the structure of government at this time.
The federal government was far less powerful than it is today.
Governors were kings of states basically.
And governors had a ton of power.
So all of this is funneling up to the governor of Missouri,
governor Lilburn W.
Boggs.
And we teased him back a couple of episodes ago, right?
He's going to become a central figure of this episode and maybe even
next episode in a couple of episodes down the road.
Anyway, so.
Lilburn Boggs is getting all these complaints from his constituents
that the Mormons are settling and that the Mormons are isolationist
and that the Mormons aren't making good on their, their,
on their business agreements.
And that they're preaching this, this militant rhetoric and that they
have their own military and their own shadow enforcement squad,
which in case people didn't know, that's treason.
That's treason against the United States.
Joseph Smith is committing treason.
And now governor Boggs is forced with these questions of like,
how do you deal with the Mormon problem?
What do you do?
Especially cause an election is coming up.
And the Mormons are voting as a block.
And anybody who Joseph Smith says is, you know, a champion of liberty,
the Mormons are going to vote for that person in a block.
And now because a bunch of Mormons are coming in from,
from Kirtland and in from Canada, from New York, from Pennsylvania,
a bunch of Mormons are all funneling into Missouri.
The Mormons are starting to get majorities in counties that aren't
just Caldwell County because Joe is violating all those treaties
and sending out his Mormon settlers into all of the nearby neighboring
counties as well.
So the Mormons are starting to get a whole lot of political power in
the coming election.
And the Missourians super duper aren't happy about that.
So let me ask you this with 15 minutes left in this episode.
Oh, no, I know, I have to do that's the most bumming thing to say.
I understand.
What do you think we're going to get through this?
Do you think we're going to get into the battle?
But because there's some things that have to be said that,
that what's being said around this time is jaw dropping.
Okay, go for it.
Go for it. See what you can do.
So within all of this, within the context of this militarism,
of course, the Mormons are believing this is the end of the world.
The Missourians are the adversary that are, you know,
persecuting the chosen people of God, forcing them off of their promised
land given to them by God.
It's the Mormons divine mission to build Zion,
the New Jerusalem in Missouri where Garden of Eden was apparently.
They also laid the cornerstones for a new temple,
which they did that in independence and they got kicked out.
Now they're laying cornerstones in Far West or sorry,
in Adam on diamond in Clay County.
The almond, by the way, is where Abraham sacrificed Isaac, but not mistaken.
That's, yeah, that is correct or attempted to anyway. Yeah.
And that is where, never mind. That's, that's Mormon theology.
We can't get into it anyway.
So the Mormons lay in new cornerstones.
And if I can pull this up real quick here,
there are still those cornerstones have been discovered.
And I'm sorry for the, you're seeing my desktop here anyway.
So yeah, the cornerstones are still in the ground to this day and the church owns
the property where they laid these cornerstones.
And you can see pictures of them where this is the mural that stands in
Adam on diamond here.
No, sorry, Far West.
And it talks about the dedication of it,
about the temple dedication ceremony and they,
the actual stones themselves are in the ground in these glass cases that were
late. So once again, the, the Missourians are, yeah, the Mormons are,
you know, the last time they laid cornerstones,
we had to kick them out of that County. They're laying cornerstones again.
What are we going to do about this?
And Sidney Rigdon is leaning way hard into this militarism.
And he gives the July 4th oration and on my podcast,
I called this the Red Sermon. David, please, please take us away.
Here's why it reaches a crescendo with these words,
but from this day and hour, we will suffer it no more.
It will be between us and them a war of extermination,
for we will follow them to the last drop of their blood is spilled,
or else they will have to exterminate us,
for we will carry the seat of war to their own houses and their own families.
And one party or the other shall be utterly destroyed.
Fourth of July.
Fourth of July, independent Mormon independence sermon.
Wow.
So he, so not only does he give that sermon in, you know,
in the midst of 3000 Mormons who are, you know, apocalyptic,
believing the end is nigh that they got to, you know, sell their,
their, their property and their land for guns and swords. Right.
Following revelation.
The Mormons print that and distribute it around Missouri.
They print this in pamphlet form and send it out all over the state.
And now the Missourians are like, well,
freaking out with good cause. They are totally freaking out.
Yeah. Yes, of course.
I was.
There isn't an example of this happening in,
in like any other time in American history, like this is, this is crazy.
And like you can try and manufacture analogies of this going on somewhere.
But this would be a Muslim sect.
Yeah.
This is full on theocracy coming.
This, absolutely. Wow.
Yeah.
And it's, it's just terrifying to the Missourians, of course. Right.
So this is in early July.
This is distributed and it begins pervading throughout the,
the whole state throughout the rest of July and into early August.
And then August 8th comes around. That is an election day.
And prior to the election actually happening,
Joseph Smith had taken his Danites and he tried to get some,
some elected officials to sign documents under duress that would
give favor to the Mormons in any coming legal dispute.
So let me reiterate that.
Joseph Smith took his shadow militia armed and dangerous and surrounded
the homes of justices of the peace and other elected officials and
forced them to sign documents under duress that would give favor to the
Mormons in the coming legal battles.
Nice.
Missouri got here.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Right.
And Dr.
Samson of art, Porter Rockwell, David Patton, you know,
there's some, some guys that are the Danites who are the figure heads
who are running the companies of Danites that are all responsible
for all of this going on. But Joseph Smith, he's the figure.
He's the kingpin of all of this. Right.
This is all happening with him at the head of it.
So eventually election day comes around.
And, um, well, needless to say the Missourians realize if the Mormons
get their, their people elected, then that begins the Mormon Revolution.
Suddenly the laws don't mean anything because the Mormons control the
laws.
So in the town of Gallatin, and I think this is in Ray County or Clay
County, I can't remember where, or maybe it's DeWitt County.
It doesn't matter. Anyway, there's this town called Gallatin and Gallatin
is one of these settlements outside of the Mormon Caldwell County where
Joe had violated his treat, the treaties and sent Mormons to settle.
And the Missouri, the old citizens hated the Mormons there.
They're terrible neighbors. So this happens that the Missourians
basically set up around the election polling stations and they don't
let the Mormons vote. And the Mormons decide to initiate a brawl.
This guy named John L. Butler and John L. Butler is like six foot three,
210 pounds, this just tyrant monster of a guy and a danite.
Somebody, one of the, how this brawl ensues, somebody who costs him and
calls Joseph Smith a false prophet, according to John Butler himself,
right? Who knows who actually threw the first swing.
But this guy attacked John Butler and John Butler grabs a club out of a pile
of wood and starts beating the living hell out of this guy.
And he yells out, oh yes, you danites, here is a mission for us.
And a huge brawl ensues. A bunch of men get clobbered in the head with
clubs. Nobody dies in this, but a bunch of guys get stabbed, a couple
get shot, some are whipped. It's a mess. It's a huge fight.
And this basically sets a pattern that is going to take us through the
rest of the Missouri Mormon war, that there's no resolution between these
two factions. This is only going to break out into open warfare.
And the, the Gallatin, so this, this Gallatin election day battle,
this fight here, this brawl, this signals to Joseph Smith that there is
no going back. We can only escalate from here until we are the winners.
So he brings his boys together and they decide it's time for war.
And at this time, once again, the various generals of the Missouri
militias, they realize what's going on.
Governor Lilburn Boggs realizes what's going on. These tensions are
escalating. They are not fizzling out. They are not relaxing.
Nothing is going to calm down. It's only going to spiral more out of control.
And Joe basically declares open warfare on the state of Missouri.
And with the help of Samson of Ard, he internalizes the concept of a
modern-day Muhammad. And Samson of Ard later said, what is it, David?
Can you get that quote for me?
I've got the Joseph Smith, the October 14th speech.
Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's, yeah, that's what I'm thinking of.
Yeah. Okay. So he gathers them in far west, the westernmost strong point
of the Mormons and gives these fateful lines. If the people will not,
if the people will let us alone, we will preach the gospel in peace.
Meanwhile, bands of Gentiles are coming and taking out settlements of
Mormons, wherever they find them and beating them on the face.
But if they come to us to molest us, we will establish our religion by the
sword. We will trample down our enemies and make it one gore of blood from
the Rocky Mountains to the Atlantic Ocean. I will be to this generation,
the second Muhammad, whose motto and treating for peace was the Al-Quran
or the sword. So shall it eventually be with us, Joseph Smith or the sword.
There's your sharia law right there.
Crap.
The Mormon revolution begins.
Boom.
Oh my gosh, guys. Do we got to put a pin in this or what?
I mean, seriously, this guy is about to fight the state.
Okay.
It's one thing to maybe have a problem with like a neighborhood, you know,
look, there's a bunch of guys down here.
They're not let's go drive down there and take care of the whole state.
They're about to take on the state and he's making these dude.
His ego is next level.
He has a messianic complex.
Today in Missouri, tomorrow, everything to the Atlantic seaboard.
That's right. One gore of blood.
Blood from sea to shining sea if he has his way.
Yeah.
And what let's just take a second that before wrapping up like to comment on
that.
This should terrify anybody at any point in American history or any
history when somebody like this rises to this level of power, they gain
the critical mass of followers who will never question who will never walk
astray, who will always follow the prophet, no matter what he says, no
matter what crazy shit he comes up with, no matter how big his shadow
militia squad becomes, they will follow in do step behind him.
These are terrifying concepts.
These are terrifying things that happen throughout history.
And these figures, figures like Joseph Smith are the figures that start
revolutions, right?
And America got away with the Joseph Smith Revolution only because he
died, right?
Like tweak a couple of variables.
We're living in Zion right now that America is Zion.
A couple of things don't happen or a couple of things do happen.
A couple of variables are different than what actually happened.
We're living in a Mormon America.
And we need to point out how powerful these cults become, how powerful
these cults of personality become.
And I'm not being alarmist when I'm saying that.
I'm not trying to inflate Joseph Smith above what he truly is, because
the ideas he created, the theology he formed, the militaristic exhortations
that he preached and the horrible men with which he surrounded himself
are the same people who led the church into Mexico and declared it a
theocracy and continue to grow and expand to this religion to what it is
today that it claims it's 16 million people.
Most of those people are in Idaho, Utah, and Arizona.
It's a massive religion and it has some truly dangerous teachings
underpinning it.
Yes, and speaking of dangerous demagogues with a cult of personality,
it occurs to me, we're recording this on October 13th.
By the time this episode shows, we may be in a whole different scenario
in our own little slice of the Zion.
That is an interesting point.
You know, thinking about that, there's a natural fear that comes on
on the racial divide, for example, in contemporary times,
and I'm an apolitical channel, so I don't go into sides,
but I can tell you one thing, I don't, no matter what you say you are,
I don't think it's a good idea that we start pulling out weapons.
Nothing, it's not worth it.
There should be no reason why we can't rationalize and discuss and figure out
in the 21st century how to act as human beings and how to treat human beings.
No matter what your sex is, no matter what your religion is,
no matter what you believe in, we need to get past that and I'm sick of that.
You know, you can have opinions, sure, but when you have opinions
and you're in a place of power, it's a scary thing that can start causing serious stuff.
Stay tuned.
That's all I can say is stay tuned.
One final point I want to make, like, religion poisons everything, right?
And I don't think that's a crazy observation.
I think that's entirely reasonable when you understand how pervasive and expansive it really is.
But there is a step beyond religion poisoning everything.
Religion weaponizes people.
And when religion itself is weaponized, there is no greater, more dangerous force to reckon with in all of humanity.
And that's something we cannot ignore.
It doesn't matter where you are in politics.
It doesn't matter where you are in beliefs.
Like you said, Derek, it doesn't matter what you believe or think.
You need to understand that religions being weaponized,
the way that we see Joseph Smith and we see contemporary examples of,
that is an existential threat and danger to everything that we consider as civilization.
This means war, ladies and gentlemen.
Go down in the description.
Get the book.
Get in the podcast.
Help these gentlemen out.
I hope we can get my friend David Fitzgerald's Patreon setup.
You have one, Bryce.
That's correct.
Yeah, patreon.com slash naked Mormonism.
And just a quick spiel on that.
That's like the patron exclusive feed where you get a whole bunch of extra content beyond the regular podcast,
including a bunch of early Mormon audio books with my commentary in them.
So if the spalling theory and Mormonism unveiled peaks your interest,
I read through the whole book with a whole bunch of commentary on the patron exclusive feed and there's just a ton of really good material there.
So yeah, if you want to support the show, it'd be super great.
As the show is currently on hiatus, it's free to join and you get all the extra material for free until I'm off hiatus.
So a quick plug.
David, you got to get that thing completed.
It will be by the time they are seeing this, the information will be right at the bottom of their screen.
Excellent.
Look, help these guys out.
Join, support what they do.
And you can help our channel.
You know, mythvisionpodcast.com and you can email me at mythvisionpodcast.gmail.com.
You guys can join the patron here, get early access to a lot of the content.
I'm releasing one of these episodes early on the Patreon for only patron members.
And then you guys, you know, who aren't a patron, you'll get to see it when it comes out for sure.
With that being said, don't forget we are myth vision.
