Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Go ahead, get the book.
Come on, subscribe to his podcast.
Wee!
Aww.
MedVision.
Welcome back to MedVision Podcast, your host, Derek Lambert.
Early Mormonism, Joseph Smith.
This guy got captured and he is being extradited from one state to another.
And even the guys who capture him know that if they get caught with Joseph Smith,
there's going to be some trouble, okay?
These boys are not playing.
Joseph Smith is a gangster, okay?
If you haven't realized it by now, this dude is a straight-up gangster,
mobster, criminal leader, okay, of his own city.
Brilliant.
I mean, it truly is genius, but yet what a horrific thing that a cult developed out of this.
Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, Bryce Blankenagle joining the host of Naked Mormonism Podcast.
He's naked from the waist down.
I could see it right now.
And he looks like he might be black from the waist down.
I don't know, but I'm just kidding.
And then we have David Fitzgerald.
What's up, brother?
Yes, folks, author of the Complete Heretics Guide and The Mormons.
Make sure you guys get the book.
Check out both these guys' podcasts, book, patrons.
They're all down in the description.
You guys can help make a change to make these guys continue doing what they do,
bringing you the best.
And this is the best right here, giving you a tease of it.
They're not even going exhaustive.
Like just, guys, it's like going to a restaurant and getting only an appetizer.
Really?
You're not going to want the whole course?
I'm sorry.
I got to have the whole course.
So with that being said, what is...
I know you would love to just say what happens, but you might need to recap.
You might need to touch up and just what's going on.
Joseph Smith gets captured at gunpoint.
Yeah.
Who would think that with the cult leader?
Like he's supposed to be like Jesus on earth.
And he's...
Well, Jesus did get arrested a couple of times, right?
So I mean, that's kind of a pretty common theme with these people,
with these cult leaders is they commit various infractions
and then the law tries to prosecute them.
They evade arrest or they do whatever to get out of it.
And then it's all persecuting the religion, right?
So it's notable to recognize that Joseph Smith was able to use the state of Illinois
and the state of Missouri trying to prosecute him as fuel for the persecution fire.
That was the fertilizer and he had just the right amount of it, right?
So when Joseph gets carried off in handcuffs or like in 1838,
the Missouri Mormon War, when he gets thrown into a prison carriage,
you know, a jail cell carriage, that is just riling the people up.
That is just motivating them to be better, more devout,
more loyal believers of the prophet.
And we have to recognize that trend that once these movements,
these populist movements reach critical mass, there is no reigning them in.
There is no cutting off the head of the snake because it's actually a hydra, right?
That there is no de-escalating things.
And the Mormons obviously understood this.
Joseph Smith understood that there was no de-escalation
where he didn't end up with an egg on his face.
So he continued to escalate, obviously.
And that is a trend that would see him to his death.
And he really had nowhere to go but to keep going through it
because you couldn't back down and say, you know what?
That stuff about me being God on earth and then heaven and hell,
that was just kidding that.
I was playing with all, yeah.
Yeah, once you get to a certain level, it's like it ratchets up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So also though, the Mormons had very well understood that,
especially the leadership, that they had been kicked out of multiple locations.
They didn't know how long Illinois was going to welcome them.
And they began exploring alternate locations for the next Mormon settlement.
And this begins, the ideas of this begin happening in 1843,
but really in early 1844, which I hope we'll be able to get into today,
these locations really begin getting scouted out.
They send missionaries to these locations to scout them out
and to meet with people there, to meet with government officials there,
to try and coordinate a place for the Mormons to settle in the next exodus.
And those locations were Texas, right?
I mean, the Texas Republic of Texas was a hotbed place
where criminality could go and flourish and where slavery was legal.
Mexico, which became Utah and Nevada and Wyoming and everything.
So Mexico was really appealing.
Oregon Territory, which is modern day Oregon and Washington.
So these locations, also California, but California was still,
it still hadn't reached the boon that the gold rush brought
that caused so many people to move there.
So it wasn't quite as appealing.
All of these locations, they had certain things that were appealing about them.
And mostly there wasn't a whole lot of government there.
There wasn't a whole lot of law that was ever being enforced out there.
So the Mormons could go and do whatever they wanted to do,
whatever they needed to do to become a religious theocracy.
Their move to Illinois, obviously, they wanted that to become their theocracy.
And they were building a temple.
They were building brickyards.
They were building all sorts of things to make Nauvoo,
the central location, the sovereign theocracy within America.
But they wanted that to be the point from which they would expand west
and build their theocracy.
So the Mormons knew that they were on thin ice in Illinois
and that the longer that they could keep creditors at bay
and the longer they could keep the government in their pocket, basically,
the longer that they would be allowed to stay in Nauvoo without without prosecution.
The one flaw in that plan is it all hinges on Joseph Smith.
Everything hinges on Joseph Smith.
If he gets caught or captured and taken to Missouri,
then the whole plan, the whole movement, the whole westward expansion
all comes to a grinding halt.
And this this Mormon war machine that they are building for the Mormon revolution
no longer has a pilot.
And they need to keep all of the things as they are to continue to build sustainably
and then to begin their westward expansion in this Mormon revolution.
So, yeah.
And we should keep in mind during all this,
meanwhile, the leadership behind the scenes are at each other's throats.
And there's a war going on between the factions that practice polygamy
and the factions that say, oh, no, no, no, no, no, we don't.
Yes, that's correct.
Right. And we discussed those factions a little bit last time, right?
So we got like the polygamy faction is Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
brothers Brigham Young and Hebra Kimball, William Clayton.
On the anti polygamy faction, we have the three families, most notably
the fosters, the Higbees and the laws, foster Higbee laws.
So those are names that we need to become very familiar with as we get further into this.
How deep is this division?
I know that they just disagreed, but that's a big issue to disagree on.
So do they become arch enemies within within this?
We'll see. Let's just see what happens, shall we?
It varies. It's a variable.
I will say, right?
So polygamy was a very divisive issue.
And I am with a very small minority of people who believes that Joseph Smith even had his
younger brother killed because his younger brother was about to spread the word that
polygamy was going on that happened back in 1841, right?
So, you know, two years before where we are in our timeline.
And as evidence for that, Joseph Smith then ended up taking his younger brother's wife
as one of his polygamous wives.
You mentioned this in passing, I think, just barely, but didn't really dug, dig into it.
And I think that's because you don't rest a lot of weight on it.
You just, you know, you have a hunch, maybe, but apart from that, that's.
Oh, by the way, he may have killed his own brother and stole his wife.
He stole my wife.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so yeah, but Joseph Smith is in custody right now, right?
And his, his boys back in Nauvoo don't know this yet, right?
This happens in Dixon, Illinois.
And, you know, I'm going to pull up the map again just so we can,
we can get an idea of what this journey looked like, right?
I love the map too, by the way, the map.
I'm sure the audience loves the map.
The map is something else.
Yeah.
It really helps to understand to get a better view of exactly what kind of we're looking at here.
Because logistically, like everything has to happen in a place, right?
So this is the little town of Dixon, Illinois.
It's right here on the river.
And this is where Joseph Smith is arrested by these constables.
And for simplicity's sake, I call them sheriffs, Wilson and Reynolds.
These are the two sheriffs.
One of them is a sheriff, one's a constable.
But I just, for simplicity, sheriffs, Wilson and Reynolds.
So they arrest Joseph Smith here in Dixon, Illinois, right?
But what they have to do is they have to get all the way to Missouri,
somewhere here across the state line in Missouri.
And that's a long journey in order to ensure that their job is complete
and that they have fulfilled the orders of the two governors of Illinois and Missouri,
which is Governor Reynolds and Governor Ford.
The new governor of Illinois is Governor Thomas Ford.
Who, we'll talk a bit about Governor Ford.
But he wrote his own history of Illinois.
It's titled in 1852.
And he talked a lot about the Mormons in his book from his view as governor.
And it's a fascinating book.
Wow.
So these guys have to get Joe and basically Joe alone from here in Dixon to Missouri
without hitting any of the Mormon settlements all along the Mississippi River right here, right?
And Nauvoo is the primary Mormon settlement.
But there are satellite Mormon settlements all over.
And if we remember, Quincy is where the Mormons first landed when they were chased out of Missouri.
They crossed the Mississippi and Quincy became their refugee settlement.
So Quincy citizens were largely sympathetic to the Mormons.
They had helped the Mormons survive during the refugee crisis and got the Mormons to Nauvoo,
kept them alive long enough to get to commerce that they turned into Nauvoo.
But there are Mormon settlements all along out here that will recognize Joseph Smith on site.
Now, a lot of people don't recognize Joseph Smith.
And most accounts of people who are introduced to him, even hostile accounts,
are like he doesn't look anything like I pictured him.
So because he's not great beard and a Moses looking figure, right?
He's a dude in his mid-30s, right?
He's just a dude.
So these sheriffs can take him from Dixon on back roads.
And if they stay in a town where there are no Mormons, nobody will be any of the wiser.
Nobody will recognize them.
Nobody will have any idea that these guys have arrested the prophet Joseph Smith.
But if there's a single Mormon in that town, suddenly the jig is up.
They'll be identified.
That information will get back to Nauvoo and then outcome the Danites,
outcome the Nauvoo legion to come and rescue their divine leader.
So how many days journey are we talking about from the Dixon area to the border, Missouri?
Let's see.
So he was arrested June, I want to say June 23rd of 1843.
And all of the events that we're about to discuss transpired in the space of just over a week.
It was all resolved by July 3rd.
So it's about a week and a half.
And this journey right here by roadways, it's probably a four or five day journey on horseback.
If you're going on main, well-traveled roads, if you're taking back roads,
it's going to take longer, obviously.
So they're going to either have to gag him or make sure no one sees him, you know, because yeah.
Yeah.
And these guys know their lives are in danger, right?
Right.
Because the Danites, the Nauvoo legion, sure, they're not the Danites, but the Nauvoo legion,
they are a state sanctioned militia.
They don't follow state's orders.
They follow the orders of their man, of their prophet, of their divine leader,
of their Joseph Smith, of their American Moses.
So these sheriffs are under absolutely no illusions that they will be safe
if Joseph Smith is identified in their custody.
So they're doing everything they can to take back roads and to stay in small taverns at night
and to keep Joseph Smith from being contacted by anybody.
But he has a couple of good friends in all of this, one of which is William Clayton,
one of his pro-polygamous friends, and another is Stephen Markham, another pro-polygamous friend.
So he gave the order to Stephen Markham as soon as he was getting arrested,
get the Nauvoo, tell them where I am.
So that's what Stephen Markham does.
He immediately departs for Nauvoo, and he makes the journey and tells Hyrum Smith,
who is still in Nauvoo, who is the pro-temporary lieutenant general of the Nauvoo legion,
the prophet is arrested.
We have to go rescue him.
And Hyrum shows up.
Hyrum brings out small platoons of hundreds of soldiers,
and they all mount horseback and they canvass the state.
They cover the whole damn state.
And this is included, this very detail is included in the Mormon
biography movie of Joseph Smith, The Biopic.
And it's done very slyly, so we don't think anything more of it, but they show what happens here.
So they're also monitoring the waterways, because they weren't sure if they took him on a steamer
down Rock River to connect to the Mississippi, and they were going to take him down to St. Louis
aboard a ferry.
That would be easiest and fastest, but if there's a finite number of ferries that are
traveling on the water, the Mormons are monitoring everything.
They have spies everywhere, so that's not going to be safe.
So they decided to take horseback.
But the waterways are being monitored by the Danites.
Well, in Nauvoo legion, in this instance, those terms are really synonymous.
Dude, hold on, pause one second.
Holy crap, bro.
This is like, this is biblical proportion type stuff, and people don't even realize,
like, this is serious.
I mean, this is not just a small little thing.
This is a big, big deal.
Joseph Smith, I cannot stress this point enough, Joseph Smith was a criminal kingpin.
Yeah.
He was an absolute criminal.
And what the way that criminal kingpins are able to stay in power is they create systems
that make them untouchable.
And most of the time, that means being surrounded by armed guards.
And Joseph Smith most of the time was, which is why these guys never arrested him in Nauvoo.
Right?
Last time that they did that, the sheriffs were chased out of town,
and then Porter Rockwell and Joseph Smith fled.
They got out of town, right?
So these sheriffs understand the risk that they are taking on by arresting Joseph Smith.
They know he has an entire militia at his command.
They know that he has underground shadow assassin squads.
They know that he is an extremely dangerous man, and extremely wealthy as well.
He's extremely wealthy and powerful in all of this, too.
I mean, this is not a run-of-the-mill thief.
This is not a two-bit criminal.
This is a kingpin of a criminal empire, and everybody recognizes that.
So how do you rein that in?
How do you stop a criminal empire?
How do you arrest the kingpin of a criminal empire
when he's constantly surrounded by his armed guards?
Right?
Like, you have to be careful about how you execute these things,
or you take your own life in your own hands.
I'm fascinated by when I think about the route these guys took to bring him to Missouri.
It's like, you have to find places that either you trust them so much that
when the Mormons show up, you know, a day or an hour later,
they're not going to say, yeah, he went that way.
Good point.
You've got to make sure there's no Mormon spies.
You've got to make sure there's no Mormon sympathizers.
Make sure there's not anybody greedy enough to be bribed, you know.
I'm just really fascinated to know how many places they hid out
and what kind of places those were.
Great.
Yeah, and like I said, I mean, they were small towns,
small taverns that they stayed the night in,
and they weren't able to conceal his identity in his location.
They weren't able to do it, right?
Because all this time, Joseph House William Clayton riding alongside
who was able to take special messages.
So they, you know, and the Constables, they can't stop William Clayton
from riding alongside their posse.
That's just something that they can't exactly do.
Because William Clayton...
He's been on it.
Oh, and by the way, don't mind me, guys.
No, don't pay attention to that guy.
You know, he's just a friend of mine.
I'm just going to slip him a piece of paper,
and he's going to disappear for a couple hours
and then head us off at the next junction.
No.
So William Clayton was still able to pass messages
and verbal communications to nearby Mormon settlements, right?
So they would run within three or four miles of a Mormon settlement,
then William Clayton would break off and go, you know,
relay information to them.
They would send out a letter to Nauvoo
and try and get ahold of Hiram or William Law.
William Law is in all of this.
He's one of the commanders of the Nauvoo Legion.
He's leading a platoon.
You know, that guy who tried to break Porter Rockwell out of jail
and, you know, finish off the Littleburn Boggs job, Jackson, Joseph Jackson?
He's leading a platoon of guys searching.
So there are hundreds of Mormons
divided out all over the state of Illinois searching,
all spreading out from Nauvoo, right?
So if we go back to our map here,
we can see how this kind of looks, right?
So all of these troops are centered here in Nauvoo largely,
but there are also smaller platoons,
smaller divisions of the Nauvoo Legion
in the surrounding Mormon settlements.
But what this does is it basically keeps a small garrison patrolling the river,
making sure that everybody who's on the ferry is accounted for
and that Joseph Smith isn't on any of the ferries.
But then we also have platoons of Nauvoo Legionnaires
riding out in a fan away from Nauvoo,
all directions covering all major and minor roads,
looking for any of these little towns and villages,
meeting with anybody in the settlements.
Hey, did you happen to see Joseph Smith come through here?
Did you happen to see a few guys?
One of them in shackles.
So they are spread out every possible direction.
And it's only a matter of time before the guys from Dixon run into a fron of that Mormon fan
searching the entire state.
Quite another clue to mine.
So and this whole time is Clinton following behind him like a dog sniffing around
but not getting close enough to them.
Or is he actually in their party and saying,
Oh, I'm gonna be back.
I have to go to that room and I'll be back in three hours.
You know, yeah, he was in the he was in the party, right?
And I say also sheriff's Wilson and Reynolds, right?
This is a posse an arresting posse of I think like seven or eight guys in all of this.
And so they there were a few guys in it.
But Wilson and Reynolds were the sheriffs who had the the actual pieces of paper,
the orders, the warrants for the arrest and the extradition orders from the others.
But they had nothing on Clayton.
So he was free to come and go and hang out with them.
Yeah, he wasn't under arrest.
And he from from what I gather, he was he was basically with the posse.
He was just riding alongside them.
I don't have any reason to believe that he was just like kind of trailing them or like,
you know, sitting in the shadows, making sure that they don't see a sensibly there just to
take care of help take care of Joseph, I assume.
Yeah. And Joseph always had handlers.
No matter where he went, no matter where he was,
he always had somebody who was one of his friends by his side.
And that happened to be William Clayton in this case.
This brings up a point I'd like to ask before we get to the conclusion,
because I know you're about to explain what happens and I cannot wait to hear what happens.
How does this slippery, oily, snakey fella wind up slipping through the cracks again?
I cannot wait to hear.
But one of the problems in my head, and maybe you could easily resolve it, is
how could they know how dangerous this guy was in the full respect that he's got a platoon?
He's got all this stuff.
If they're allowing this guy to be right there next to them at this party,
don't you think they may not have realized the fullness of this guy's armory?
Like maybe they thought, OK, he's got a couple boys, but it's eight or nine of us,
bro. We've got pistols on our hips.
Nobody's going to mess with us.
Do they maybe not know who they have with them, in a sense, to that degree?
That's not the case at all.
And particularly why I say that is because Sheriff Reynolds was the sheriff in Missouri
during the Missouri Mormon War.
He's very familiar with the Mormons and Joseph Smith.
He knows how dangerous these people are.
Yeah. So no, these guys knew what they were dealing with.
They knew how powerful and dangerous this guy was.
There's no question about that.
And as for how they treated William Clayton or how they interacted with him during this journey,
I don't know.
I don't know anything about it or what they said.
I don't know where a record of that would be.
What I do know is what Joseph Smith claimed.
He regaled everybody with the entire story once he was safe.
And then the sheriffs went to, I believe it was Quincy, Illinois,
and they sent their own versions of the events to the governor of Missouri.
And it was published in the Warsaw Signal.
So we have the Mormon version coming out of the propaganda mill in Nauvoo.
And then we have the sheriffs telling their side of the story
through the anti-Mormon literature at the Warsaw Signal.
Pull up the map.
Where'd they get cat?
Where'd they catch him?
Where'd they get?
And then tell us what happened in the both sides of the story.
Because I've really got to know this.
This is so important.
Right. So there were a couple of these larger groups.
Hiram Smith ends up coming out towards Monmouth and Galesburg out here with his boys.
That's Joe's older brother, Hiram Smith.
Joseph Jackson, for some reason, takes everybody out south down here towards Quincy,
which is pretty intelligent.
Because Quincy was one of the major ferry points to get across the Mississippi.
It was the most likely location where these guys would be crossing the Mississippi.
And then William Law, I believe he comes out towards Macomb over here.
And when they were in Macomb, the William Laws boys, they hear that the Posse
had passed through a couple of hours before.
And they determined that there's a prairie right down here somewhere between Macomb and Quincy
that the Posse must be traveling.
So William Laws boys ride in, they find the Posse and they arrest the sheriffs.
Yes. I don't know why I'm rooting for the friggin bad guys, but right now this sounds so
Now, obviously, there's a disagreement among these men.
Because these guys are sheriffs and they are arrested under the concept that they are trying
to arrest somebody without the proper documentation.
So that this is basically a charge of kidnapping.
So Joe tries to get these guys arrested and arraigned into his court in Nauvoo on charges
of kidnapping.
And these guys are like, we ain't going to Nauvoo.
We are not going to Nauvoo.
And they said, we're going to Quincy and we're going to get the circuit judge there
to issue an order to have you release us.
And Joe was like, no, we're going to Nauvoo, guys.
And all of this huge group of men.
Now, the division that William Law was running with was somewhere between 100 to 200 men.
Now, the arresting posse, what do you do?
What do you do?
What do you do?
We have these papers from the governor.
Yeah, it's like those papers are funny.
I mean, you might be able to use them to stifle a bleeding from the gunshot wound you're about to get.
Like, what do you do?
Joe says you're going to Nauvoo.
You're going to Nauvoo.
He's got 150 of his boys with you at gunpoint.
You you you are outmatched.
You are outgunned.
You are outclassed.
You are outplanned.
You are not getting out of this.
Where do I sign up to become a Mormon, Joe?
I was actually traveling with you.
I was going to ask you that, but I just decided to wait till now.
Now, yeah, can you baptize me?
There's there's a little pond over there.
Just duck me real quick.
Yeah.
So they the the boys all triumphantly ride into Nauvoo.
And I think this happens on like July 3rd or maybe it's July 1st or something of 1843.
And the the of course, within Clayton is with him.
He rides ahead to Nauvoo an hour or two ahead of the posse to let him know that they've
they caught the profit and that he they're coming into town.
And when they arrive, the full Nauvoo Legion is out in parade.
The band is playing.
Hail to the chief that everybody is celebrating the recapture of the profit,
the the liberation of their profits.
And these sheriffs, they are in the custody of William Law, right?
As as a constable of Nauvoo, they're under his custody.
They they are under arrest by these Nauvoo officers.
So what do they do?
You can't run away from you can't flee town.
You're under arrest.
You can't flee town.
You're under arrest under false like crazy pretenses, but pretenses that are written into
Nauvoo law because Joe wrote them into the Nauvoo law because he was a criminal kingpin.
We're just such an occasion.
Yes, exactly.
Like you can be really good at the game when you write all the rules and you're the one
counting the points, right?
And that's why Joe was so good at what he did.
So Joe is, you know, greeted by his family, his kids, you know, coming and clasped onto
his legs. Young little Frederick is so happy to see his dad.
He's, you know, like three years old, four years old at this time.
Young Joseph the third.
He's he's 10 years old and he's so happy to see his dad.
He remembers crying at his dad coming into town.
Emma, of course, is probably relieved to have her husband back in town and out of the custody
of the Missouri sheriffs.
Although we don't know.
Maybe she was happy to have him arrested.
Maybe she helped them arrest him.
Who knows?
So, yeah, it's it's this huge cause of celebration for all of the citizens of Nauvoo
because Joseph Smith had another close scrape with death and got out from under it.
That's right.
What what happened?
OK, the parade's going on.
They're in town.
Yeah.
They're arrested.
Joseph Smith has a dinner party and he invites the sheriffs to come to the dinner party
and they're like, no, we don't want to go.
And he's like, no, it wasn't actually an invitation.
You're coming to the dinner party and they go to this dinner party and they are just
basically forced to sit at a table in kind of a corner of the room watching all of the Mormons
paying their happiness and praise to the Almighty Prophet, the criminal kingpin.
And they spend the night there at this large party watching the Mormons just party and drink
and have a good night and they can't leave.
They can't do anything because they are under arrest in a city of criminals.
And you've got to wonder the only thing that's keeping them alive, I would think at this point
is the thought of, well, if we kill them, the Illinois government will come after us.
But I don't even know if that's true.
I don't even know how much I I would not want to be in their shoes at this juncture.
Yeah, I wouldn't want to be in anyone's shoes, right?
Because yeah, like if you're the Mormons, what do you do with these sheriffs?
Because it's like, well, you know, we got you arrested.
We got our boy safe here.
But those documents signed by both governors of both states are not just going to go away, right?
Like that's still going to that's still going to be a thing.
And if we just like, you know, off these guys, then then, you know,
Governor Ford's going to show up with the Illinois militia.
We don't want that.
We want to we want to not fight for as long as possible.
That will allow us enough strength for the time when there is an actual fight.
So what would you do if you're the Mormons?
What do you do if you're the sheriffs, right?
Because you you have no liberty at this time.
You have no freedom of passage.
You you can't do anything.
So it ends up that the Mormons hold these sheriffs in their holding cells for basically
a day and a half and then eventually release them.
And these guys go to Quincy and they get an extra warrant to issue an arrest at the same time
that the Nauvoo government passes another ordinance expanding the powers of habeas corpus,
which now meant that Nauvoo Municipal Court could basically grant a writ of habeas corpus
on any arrest warrant that is issued by any government body anywhere in the nation.
So which like if that were challenged in court, it wouldn't have held up.
But the words were on the paper.
The the thing was it was published in the city journal, The Times and Seasons.
And so the law was in effect.
And until it was challenged in court, they were the people were going to act as if the law was
in effect. So these guys try and return with an extra warrant for arrest of Joseph Smith.
And he hears it in the Nauvoo court and he grants himself a writ of habeas corpus because,
of course, he does now in all of this. Right.
So this legal battle was never resolved before Joseph Smith died.
It never was. It simply never was.
Missouri never got to prosecute Joseph Smith.
They never got him extradited successfully, which is a shame.
I would love to see how this would actually play out with the laws and with the judges
at the time. But we never got to see that actually happen.
But in all of this, there is one figure we need to discuss because there was somebody.
1843 was another election year for district offices and state level congressional offices.
So one of the guys who was running for office, he was running.
I think it was for I think it was for Congress.
I can't remember what office he was running for.
But this guy was a well-known lawyer, a well-known criminal lawyer.
And it's very much like Jesse Pinkman asked, you need a criminal lawyer.
You need a criminal lawyer.
And Cyrus Walker is one of those who was a criminal lawyer.
So he was running for office.
And while Joseph Smith was taking across the state,
Joe told William Clayton to go find Cyrus Walker and get him to join my legal team,
because this is going to be a fight.
So William Clayton tells Cyrus Walker, essentially, hey, if you come and help get
Joseph Smith out of the sticky wicket he's found himself in, then you got the Mormon vote,
which means Cyrus Walker no longer needs to campaign.
He doesn't have to spend the rest of your campaigning.
He's fine, which this is happening in June and July.
The election is in August.
So that's a month that he gets back of his life that he can focus on other matters
instead of campaigning, because he got the Mormon voting block.
His victory is secure.
So Cyrus Walker agrees to take the Mormon vote in exchange.
He'll go defend Joseph Smith.
And in all of this horrible mess of annoying, crazy chaos,
Cyrus Walker defends Joseph Smith.
And he becomes kind of a glory boy, a non-Mormon, who we would call a Jack Mormon,
somebody who's not a Mormon, but very friendly with the Mormons,
works with them, trades with them, whatever the case is, gets favored with them.
So Cyrus Walker spends a month and a half basically defending the Mormons.
And then the August election comes up.
There was a problem here.
Thomas Ford was a Democrat.
Cyrus Walker was a Whig candidate.
The Whig party with the help of the Mormons was on its way to death.
The Whig party was not a very well-executed political party.
And Cyrus Walker only had the weight of the Whig party behind him,
whereas Hodge, who was his interlocutor, had the weight of the Democratic party behind him,
which came along with it, the governor, Governor Ford of Illinois.
So the Democratic party had more power in the state of Illinois,
and thereby had more to grant the Mormons.
But Joseph Smith just told this guy, Cyrus Walker,
you got the Mormon voting block if you come defend me in this case.
Oh my gosh.
So the August election comes up.
And Joseph Smith has spoken multiple times from the poll because he's a free man.
He's out on a writ of habeas corpus.
He's a free man.
He's able to wander Nauvoo and do everything that he wants right now without fear of arrest,
because, you know, he got freed.
You must acquit it.
That's exactly right.
Yeah.
So he's bulletproof, right?
He was just arrested outside of his kingdom, and he survived it.
He's bulletproof.
And every time one of these encounters happens, he gets more cocky.
He gets more arrogant.
Like I actually am bulletproof.
Holy crap.
These guys didn't shoot me.
My boys came and saved me.
I'm pretty much God.
Joe spoke many times from the pulpit that the Whig party that Cyrus Walker is our man.
He doesn't ever say from the pulpit, vote for Cyrus Walker.
He just says that you vote for good candidates and Cyrus Walker is a good man.
And, you know, and he says multiple times that we are not a party, a partisan religion.
We vote for whoever will be the most good for us as a people, which is, you know,
it's veiled, but it's religion interfering with politics, obviously.
It's a good thing America's moved long past that.
No, it's a secular nation.
I hear anyway, people have told me it's a secular nation.
Um, so election day comes and Joseph Smith is caught in the turmoil that the Democrats,
if the Mormons vote for the Whigs, the Democrats are going to prosecute Joseph Smith.
They're going to carry out the warrants to have him arrested and extradited to Missouri.
But Cyrus Walker, who is the Whig and who wants to fight with the Democrats about this,
has been defending Joseph Smith for a month and a half now.
And Joe promises votes to Cyrus Walker, the Whig candidate.
Well, election day comes.
There's a big public gathering in the town square of Nauvoo.
And Joseph Smith says, my brother Hyrum had a dream last night.
Oh, my gosh.
And every time.
So Joseph Smith says, I will be voting for Cyrus Walker, but I have never known Hyrum to
receive a prophecy and lie.
So Hyrum stands up after Joseph Smith and says, I had a vision last night that we should vote
for the Democrats.
And the people are mad because Joseph Smith for the last month and a half has been telling them
that they should vote for the Whigs.
Now we have Joseph Smith's brother, the patriarch of the church, Hyrum Smith,
coming up and saying he's received revelation for the people.
I thought Joseph Smith was our prophecy and revelator, but now Hyrum is getting up and
saying I've had a revelation that we should vote for the Democrats.
So this causes a rift and William Law steps up and says Hyrum is not an authority for
revelation on the church.
We should follow Joseph Smith as the prophet.
Joseph Smith tells William Law to sit down and gets up again and reiterates that when
Hyrum has had a revelation, I have never seen it be false.
So there's this schism going on a fight among the presidency of the church about who to vote for
and all of the Mormons in the settlement in the area and in the nearby towns catch word of this
and they almost all vote for the Democrats.
But the information, the speech didn't get to some of the outer lying Mormon settlements in
time for them to switch their vote to the Democrat and they voted for Cyrus Walker
because that's what Joe had been saying for the last month and a half.
But Hyrum Smith was able to turn enough of the Mormon votes that the Mormon bloc turned Democrat.
So wait a second.
So wait a second before you say another word.
So what is going on here?
Was this an example of political infighting or was there a plan within a plan?
Do we know?
Are we, is it just a superstition at this point?
So there's a few ways to look at this.
The way that I look at it is Joseph Smith weighing his options.
The Democrats had more to offer the Mormons, which was and the biggest thing that the Democrats
could offer the Mormons was, we're not going to prosecute you.
And that was too appealing to Joseph Smith.
It was choose the wig vote and go with this guy who's been defending me in court for a month and
a half and risk, you know, vilifying the entire Democrat party or vote for the Democrat party
and make sure that they don't prosecute me.
And then who cares about this Cyrus Walker guy and the wig party because they don't have
much leverage to give me anyway.
I see this all purely as an amaconation of Joseph Smith and it is, it's political chess.
It's absolutely political chess because Joe owned the Mormon vote.
Whoever he said the Mormons would vote for.
I see this purely as a selfish move in Joe's eyes and him creating a weasel situation where he
could get out of the fact that he promised his vote to Cyrus Walker, but that he said,
you know, in response to all of this Cyrus Walker quit, he was mad about it, right?
He said, well, I promised you my vote.
I never said all of the votes of my people.
And just like that, suddenly it makes perfect sense.
Exactly.
So what does the church say about this?
Are they aware of this?
They don't teach.
They don't teach this.
This is not in any of the curricula, right?
Because this is, this is nasty stuff.
This is dirty political games.
Like it doesn't matter what era of American history you're looking at.
This is skeezy.
This sucks.
Nobody likes to see this kind of political bartering and trading going on.
We all know that it happens all day every day, but nobody wants to see it thrown in their face,
especially when it's their divine supreme leader who is doing it.
So what happens?
He obviously doesn't get the vote for them, but he has an excuse for why, of course.
What happens now?
Cyrus Walker quits.
He's mad.
His political career is ended by Joseph Smith, one of many.
And Thomas Ford now is some more favorable to the Mormons,
because they just installed a bunch of Democrats into his government
that he now has more sway and power as the governor of the state
to do what he needs to get done.
So now the Mormons are favored in the eyes of their governor, Governor Thomas Ford,
not favored to the point of, you know, providing them exemptions or exceptions,
but favored to the point that Thomas Ford isn't going to actively pursue
right at the the rits of extradition and arrest warrants.
So Joseph Smith is safe.
Again, he won the end.
That's it.
That's the last will hear of any of these characters.
Oh my gosh, this guy is, you know, slowly.
Like it's building up the pressure of what is going to have to happen.
It's all going to catch up.
I mean, guys, if you go back to the original blood spilling,
it's like, don't worry, you're going to pay for that.
And that will haunt you no matter what.
You can't get rid of Missouri in the background.
It's Derek.
No, no, Derek.
No, it's 1843.
Joseph Smith is on top and he's going to just sail away to victory land.
He's going to hop on a flying horse and ride on to heaven.
I see another good things happening in the future for Joseph Smith.
They're going to 1843.
Well, in 18, the rest of 1843 was a brief era of good feelings for the church.
And Joseph Smith felt invincible at this point because he was able to do all of that.
He was able to have, you know, fights with his leadership.
He was and he came out unscathed.
He was fine.
So what Joe then did was wrote down the polygamy revelation that we have today as D&C 132.
And he presented it to his high counsel and said,
this is the way we're doing stuff around here now.
Remember that thing we've been denying actively, publicly and in print in Markbaston?
Well, it turns out it's all true.
Yeah, it's all true.
Yeah, we call it.
We don't call it polygamy.
We call it the celestial marriage.
We call it the new and everlasting covenant.
We call it the blessings of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and Joseph.
We call it by all these euphemistic names, but yeah, you know, keep your eye on, you know,
some of the pretty ladies in town.
See if you want to get yourself an extra couple of wives.
I think it's funny how they change the language like from what the actual New Testament language
is and how they literalized it in some weird way.
That's very interesting and clever of them to take the new covenant, the everlasting marriage,
all that stuff, the lamb and his bride, you know, like it's so interesting that they're
doing this with that language.
But I got to ask about the brothers that stood against this.
Did they bend over and take it?
Or did they say, hey, we got to back out of this.
I'm not in this.
This catalyzed an even deeper divide in the leadership of the church, right?
So we have the three sets of brothers, the Higbees, the Fosher's and the Laws.
And now the Higbees had suspected that Joe had their dad killed back in 1842,
but they didn't have enough evidence to actually prosecute it.
They just had a hunch.
And his name was, I believe, Chauncey Higbee Sr., because one of the Higbee brothers is Chauncey,
Chauncey Jr. I could be misremembering that.
But anyway, so the Higbee brothers suspected that their dad had been murdered by the prophet,
you know, a couple of years ago.
They hadn't been big fans of Joseph Smith for a while.
And they regarded the increasing power in Nauvoo and of Joseph Smith as dangerous,
as did the Laws, right?
Now, William Law and Jane Law, there was, you know, we talked about in the
Polygamy episode, there may have been a little swapsis.
There may have been some bad blood in a, you know, a quadrafector relationship between
Joseph and Emma and William and Jane and all of that.
We don't really know exactly what happened there.
All we have is speculation with, you know, some documents that underlie that speculation.
And then we also have the Foster Brothers.
And the Foster Brothers, Robert D. Foster was a carpenter, as well as a, as well as a doctor,
an herbal doctor.
And Robert D. Foster, he was basically head of the Nauvoo House Building Association.
So the Nauvoo House that Joseph Smith made.
And, you know, why am I just talking about these things when I can show them?
What is wrong with me?
Let me find the Nauvoo House real quick, because I have a really good picture of it.
It's going to take my computer a second to find this thing here.
All right, there we go.
So the Nauvoo House, right?
And this is it in its completed form, but this is the Nauvoo House.
Robert Foster had been placed as head of the Nauvoo House Association
to get this thing constructed to be the premier, the premier hotel in Illinois.
On the back end right here, you can see the very far end.
That's the Nauvoo Mansion.
That's what was completed for Joseph Smith, because the Nauvoo House wasn't being completed
fast enough.
So initially, Joseph lived in the Nauvoo Homestead.
And I think I have a picture of the Homestead as well.
But the Homestead was a relatively small house in Nauvoo.
And these are all my photos too, right?
Because all of these sites have been restored by the church.
They're all owned by the church or various churches.
And I'm struggling to find the Homestead.
But the Homestead is just a very, very small building.
Then Joseph Smith told Robert D. Foster to build Joseph the Nauvoo Mansion.
And I'm trying to find a good picture.
There's the mansion.
There we go.
So that's a Nauvoo Mansion right there.
And this became Joseph Smith's hotel until the Nauvoo House could be completed.
Well, Joe was constantly badgering Robert D. Foster about getting this building done,
getting the Nauvoo Mansion as well as the Nauvoo House completed.
And Robert Foster was, he was a contractor.
Yeah, no, I'll have it done in 60 days.
Oh, did I say 60 days?
I meant 60 days next year.
You know, it was one of those situations.
So the rift had been growing between Robert Foster and Joseph Smith
for a couple of years over these construction projects.
So the Fosters were having struggles with Joseph Smith as well.
And then, you know, so the Higbees, the Fosters, and the Laws,
they were all struggling with Joseph Smith.
And now him just coming out and declaring that polygamy is what we're doing now,
that severed a lot of the ties that they had and created a deeper rift.
Yeah.
And what's interesting to me about, especially the Laws at this time,
is even while they are just brutally ripping on Joseph Smith,
oh, he's committing hordes and abominations, but all through this,
they still think he's a prophet of God.
They just think he's a fallen prophet.
That's pretty consistent with the defectors.
I was going to say, good point.
I mean, this is, this is something that I think is so important psychologically
for people to understand, like, I don't know.
It's very weird to me how you can, I don't know.
Like, they don't have a grasp on these scriptures very well either.
It's like, if you really read your book, you'd find out there's no way
this guy could be doing these things and be what he's saying he is.
But they're obviously not that educated.
They're watching it.
He's like smoking cigars in the streets
after he gives a sermon about how we're not going to use tobacco anymore,
that kind of thing.
It's just, it's wild to me to see the tension between this is all bullshit,
right? No, no, this is the one true faith.
Yeah. Well, and that's the case too, like Martin Harris, right?
Martin Harris was, you know, he financed the publishing of the Book of Mormon.
Dum, dum, dum, dum, dum, you know, that's Martin Harris.
The dude is in Kirland at this time because Joe, you know, they started
the rival faction of Joe's church and then excommunicated him from it.
And that caused Joe to flee to Missouri back in 1838.
Martin Harris is still in Kirtland at this time,
still thinking Joseph Smith is the prophet, but just a flawed prophet,
a fallen prophet.
And that's the case with, with the Whitmer brothers who were still down in,
in Missouri, who stayed in Missouri after Joe signed the Danite manifesto
that told them you have 72 hours to leave town or a fatal calamity shall befall you.
These people still regard him as prophet, which really speaks to the charisma of this dude, right?
Like that says a lot about who this person really is when they can see all of this happening
right in front of their eyes.
And they're still like, yeah, no, he's, he talks to God.
Yeah, no, he does some bad stuff, but no, no, he talks to God all the time.
I just, I don't, I don't, my brain can't wrap itself around those, those things.
I don't know why people do this shit.
It doesn't make any sense to me.
Yeah, I just have a hard time.
Like, because, you know, we're looking at it outside of the bubble.
We're not in it.
And so it's.
That's exactly it.
It's easy for us to once we're, when you're not in it, you know, it's like, I would say,
you know, no matter how cold and wet you are, just as long as you're warm and dry.
You know, thinking about that, it's just, you know, you kind of wonder, and I don't think we,
I don't know, maybe you do have evidence of this where some people just, like you said,
that early on, there were some guys that got so invested in it that they couldn't pull out,
even if they did think it was BS at the end.
And so I wonder if some people woke up and were like, I can't, there's nothing,
there's no way out, like at this point.
And this happens a lot with people like in Joe,
Jehovah's Witnesses.
I just interviewed earlier Lloyd Evans, who's like the leading outspoken ex-Jehovah's Witnesses
right now out there on YouTube or one of them.
And the idea that they're, or even with the other guy, Cliff Henderson, he goes by fifth,
they talk about how there are Jehovah's Witnesses faking it right now,
just so they could be there for their family.
Because if they don't, they will lose in disfellowship from their family and they won't,
then they're shunned, then they can't see them or participate.
So it's like they just have to fake it till they make it, so to speak.
And a lot of people do that.
He said, I wonder if there's any at this point that are looking at Joseph Smith going,
he's so full of shit.
I don't, I don't buy anything he says.
He's not the prophet they think he is, but I don't know.
Probably there's more people that thought that would dare speak it aloud to anybody.
Exactly.
Well, and that's, that's another point to get into as well.
The power that Joseph Smith had extended beyond the people who believed in him, right?
And, and one thing I do want to say, people experience this and still believe he's a prophet.
People study this stuff and know it front to back, know it better than I do.
And they still think he's prophet.
That, I mean, that's, that right there is, it shows a lot about what,
how dangerous religion can really be.
But a point I do want to get to is we get to view these events in the safety of our lives.
The people at the time, if you contradicted the prophet, Danites might show up.
If you said anything about what you saw happen in that back alley a week ago,
the Danites might show up, right?
So there are examples of people who don't believe in the church.
They are not members.
They are not baptized, but still they gave things to the prophet.
They gave Joseph Smith and their wife to become one of Joseph Smith's wives.
And people, historians who are believing view that as like, well, obviously that's because
they knew that this was a ceremonial thing, that this was a celestial only thing,
that this was a thing that was all about the creating this new and everlasting covenant,
this celestial family of Joseph Smith.
There was, there was no libido.
There was no sexual component to this.
And I look at stuff like that and be like,
there are guys who are members of the church who live in Nauvoo,
who still gave their wives to Joseph Smith.
Because if they didn't, what might happen to them?
These guys are terrified for their lives.
Of course they gave their wives to Joseph Smith, right?
And hey, it's like you choose, hey, give me your wife and you get this nice plot of land
that's in a choice location next to the market district and in town.
You get all kinds of cool things.
You get nice benefits, whatever.
But you know, if you don't give me your wife, that's cool.
I might never see you again.
But you know, it's cool if you don't, if you don't want to give her to me,
but like there's, there's some vindictive ways to interpret the evidence here
that I think are much more accurate than like, oh, he was such a nice guy.
He was so enlightened.
He was such a good prophet of God.
And this also reminds me, if we get into the point where we're talking about what's called
the Mormon Reformation, we're going to see this little Chinese cultural war in Mormonism,
where they start weeding out the unbelievers and the half-hearted.
Um, yeah, around the same time as the Mountain Meadows massacre.
That still exists in the culture today.
Wow.
Like that, that same squealing, that same tattletale culture still exists in the church today.
It's it's caustic.
So, Bryce, we're running up, right?
We've got five to 10 minutes.
Let me ask you this.
There's Porter Rockwell is rotting in jail right now.
His best friend, Joseph Smith, avoids going to jail.
He's sitting on top of his mountain, enjoying the pleasures of freedom.
Where is what's up with this guy?
I mean, is there any significance in him in any of this right now?
Or is this coming something coming up soon?
Well, let's round out the rest of 1843 so we can hopefully start next episode in early 44,
because that's when things get really crazy.
Um, so, uh, 1843, the rest of 1843, there's some, there's the expansion of polygamy to the High
Council.
And more people are brought into the anointed quorum, which is the, the super, super duper
select group of people who are all instructed on how polygamy works and they are all prepped
to practice it, whether or not they are able to is a different question.
But they are all given the information to understand how it works.
And that comes along with a special process that's called the second anointing, which includes,
you know, covering you in oil and washing your feet and all kinds of weird, weird,
special esoteric Mormon stuff that is super duper guarded today.
But I like, I don't care.
Anyway, um, so this, this group, this super insular group, um, once again, it, it can,
it expands a little bit, it gains more people, it gains more traction and gains more followers.
But also the, the rival faction, the people who are considering polygamy as an abomination
also begins to grow because all of this time, right?
Still, Bennett's book is selling like hotcakes, right?
He published that at the very end of 1842.
So for the entire year of 1843, Bennett's book is being sold nationwide.
And the Bennett meltdown continues because his, his book is a scourge on the church.
So that's, that's creating all sorts of questions about polygamy and how it's practiced and
questions that Joseph Smith doesn't ever want to answer in public, but you know,
deny, deny, deny, deny.
But then when I want your wife, then I tell you that it's all true.
But with our special code words and stuff.
So 1843 sees kind of this weird fluctuation of polygamy,
where Joseph Smith acquires a few more wives.
But more, how many wives he's acquired at this point?
Yeah, by the end of 1843, it's, it's over 40.
You know, and solidly we have over 25 of really solid evidence by the end of 1843,
but speculative evidence over 40, right?
So there's like, he's acquiring more wives, but also the circle of men who are able to acquire
wives is also expanding.
And Heber C. Kimball is taking extra wives.
Brigham Young is taking extra wives.
Some of these other guys who are close to Joseph Smith, they're not only learning that
polygamy is the thing that we can do, but they're actually getting to practice it.
So that's expanding as well.
It's mostly expanding to the leadership for your rank and file Mormon.
It really doesn't take their lives very much because they can't afford another wife, you know.
It was most of them, if they had any at all, only had two wives, very rare to have a third wife.
And maybe what, a quarter, a fifth of the rank and file Mormons were even doing that.
Yeah, it's, it was only, even in Utah, when it was practiced openly, I think it was only
about a quarter to a third of men even had a second wife.
Yeah.
It's about a 50-50 population split.
It just, polygamy just can't work that way.
So two questions.
They say celestial marriage, of course, the Apologist.
Were these wives living with their new husbands?
And then number two question, you can answer that.
And then the number two question I have is,
do you think that this Bennett book influenced them to come out about it instead of playing
the whole downplay?
It kind of caused them to force their hand to say, you know what, we're going to own it
and make sure they understand this is divine.
So all he is is a mocker of God's prophet.
Do you think that played a huge influence on them just coming out and saying,
this is God's doing and, you know, blah, blah, blah.
What do you think?
Anyway.
So to the second question first, the Bennett's book didn't cause them to go public with the
polygamy.
It caused the highest leadership, the presidency, to teach you to the High Council.
And the High Council is comprised of a whole bunch of members, a whole bunch of the male
leadership.
And that includes the Quorum of the Apostles, the Quormas of the 70s, the bishops, the clerks,
and various groups.
It comprises a large chunk of the male leadership of the church, which is to say,
it's, you know, 150, 200 guys, whatever, right?
As opposed to about, you know, there are about four and a half to 5,000 men living,
adult men living in the church at this time.
So Bennett's book doesn't cause them to publicly say polygamy is our thing, but it does cause them
to, in private, among this leadership group, to tell them how this works, what it actually
looks like.
But it also, Bennett's book also causes a whole bunch of exposes and satire and all sorts of
stuff to come out in the popular media around the Mormons and about them nationwide, too.
One notable example is Buckeye's Lamentations for Want of More Wifes.
And it talks about this fictional character, Buckeye, who goes into Nauvoo, who's looking
for more wives, but he's not able to get them because they've been soaked up by all of the
leadership of the church.
It's funny because it's true.
Exactly, right?
And so it's only mildly satirical.
But, you know, in the popular media, Bennett's book causes the Mormons to be regarded as
polygamists.
And once the Mormons actually do go public with the announcement of polygamy, it's a
huge bombshell, it's a PR disaster for them because so many people were saying, aha, we
knew it, we told you so.
And apparently, I'm trying to remember the exact number, but apparently in Europe, they're
getting this steady inflow of European converts.
When that hit, they almost dried up instantly.
I think like almost 2000 instantly left the church just on that issue alone.
1776, I want to say.
Bryce, we've got a couple minutes, man.
Give us a cliffhanger, bro.
Right.
Okay.
So in all of this, so polygamy expands a little bit more.
You asked another question that I didn't quite address.
Are they living with the people they marry?
Oh, right.
Most of the times, the polygamists did not live together.
And that's a lot of the reason why a lot of men were sealed to women who were already married to
other dudes or to sisters or to mothers and daughters.
Because then it's like, oh, yeah, no, my sister-in-law is living with us.
Oh, no, my mother-in-law is living with us or whatever.
So there was always a way to rationalize it.
Very rarely was there any level of cohabitation.
But because Joe had his novel mansion and his novel house, he's got these houses with 15 rooms in them.
Half of the rooms are rented out to people who are staying in Nauvoo.
The other half are all of his wives.
So Joseph Smith was one of the few who actually did cohabitate while in Nauvoo.
Which is why he wanted those contractors to get off their ass and build that house.
Yeah, that's right.
Absolutely.
So 1843 rides out in almost this era of good feelings because Joseph Smith, he's God.
He has proved himself bulletproof.
And he's also running a bar in this Nauvoo house, right?
So once again, he's running a what now?
He's running a bar, right?
So in his novel mansion here in the bottom floor, and you can tour this today,
it's owned by the community of Christ instead of the LDS church.
It's owned by the formerly RLDS church, which are the lineal descendants of Joseph Smith.
So this is the Nauvoo mansion.
And in the bottom floor of this in the main hall area, Joseph Smith had a bar.
And Emma came up to him and said, I'm sick of all these people getting so rowdy.
I want you out.
I want this bar gone.
And Joe's like, no, this is the best place in town.
And if we're going to feed people here in this hotel, we're also going to get them drunk.
And she says, okay.
So one night on Christmas in 1843, there's a huge party in the Nauvoo mansion,
a huge, huge party.
And, you know, everybody is laughing, drinking, enjoying this era of good feelings that they're in.
And a fight breaks out at the bar.
And nobody knows what's going on, but there is this huge scruffy looking fellow
who is who is getting mad because he wants his whiskey.
And nobody's serving him and nobody knows who this guy is.
So he doesn't have any money.
He doesn't have anything.
So he starts raising his voice.
Everything gets crazy.
And then somebody comes up until Joseph Smith, who's, you know, in the upper floor of the Nauvoo
mansion, that there's there's a Missouri down in the basement.
We need to get rid of him.
Who knows what he's here to do.
He might be here to kill you or whatever.
So Joseph Smith goes down and confronts this guy and sees that it is
indeed not a Missouri and at least not a citizen of Missouri.
It is his old friend, Porter Rockwell, a sturdy, uncut, long hair,
still suffering crippling pain from having been hobbled for weeks, you know, for over two months.
Porter Rockwell is there in the bar of the Nauvoo mansion.
Nobody knows how he got there.
Nobody knows where, where he came from.
But Porter Rockwell is there not having bathed for nine months.
Porter Rockwell is in the Nauvoo mansion.
All the moments had broken out their booing eyes at that point.
Yeah, you know, it was a brawl.
It was a proper fight.
They didn't know who this guy was or what to expect.
And he's yelling around yelling for Joseph Smith and yeah, and then Joseph comes down
and sees who it is.
And it's like it's reunion time.
It's, it's, you know, okay, sticking a needle in this.
But I have to say, do we know how he escaped?
Okay, we're going to get there.
Stay tuned, ladies and gentlemen.
I cannot wait to find out.
And they lived happily ever after.
Oh, my gosh.
Bryce Blankenagle, host of Naked Womanism podcast and David Fitzgerald, author of
The Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion.
The Mormons.
Get the book.
Go down in the description.
Go to my Patreon.
Guys, I say this every time because I got to remind you, like, you have to do this.
You just have to do this.
This is salvation.
If you don't do this, you just, you lose your salvation.
Okay.
I am the prophet, Derek.
Okay.
And I'm telling you.
And this, I just can't wait to see what's next.
I, I look forward every time we record and I just cannot wait to hear more of this
story.
And it tells me that you take us through similar adventures on your podcast.
And I bet you your book too, David.
We got to do this again, of course.
Continue.
Can't wait till this, until we find out what happens.
And then maybe go a little past the death of Joseph Smith.
Who knows what's going to happen, guys?
I can't wait to the next episode.
So thank you guys so much.
And don't forget we are MythVision.
