Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
BEEE, myth vision, welcome back to early Mormonism.
The craziest story I've ever heard of any recent or somewhat contemporaneous cult where
it is only getting crazier and when I think it's crazy enough, they're like, dude, gosh,
and then they plateaued.
And then they just figured it out.
No, it is worse than that.
It is only getting worse, and I'm still shocked that through all of this, it's still alive.
You know?
Oh my gosh.
With that being said, we have two of the greatest that I could even find on this topic, and
that would be Bryce Blankenagle, and he is the host of Naked Mormonism Podcast.
Go down in the description, hit him up on the Patreon, make sure you guys become a member
of his Patreon, because there's a lot of stuff that you can't just put out there, if you will,
because there's a lot of censoring that he talks about on his Patreon that only Patreon
members have access to, and also get the book of David Fitzgerald, and he's got the
Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion and the Mormons.
You guys have got to get the book down in the description, and he has a Patreon that
we are currently trying to create here.
With that being said, Bryce, we left off on such a hell of a cliffhanger that
I was like, you know, impressingly, we're getting close to the end.
It's time to get it in.
Come on, Bryce.
And then when you said it, I was like, no, no, no, we can keep going.
Like, you know what I'm saying?
Talk to us, man.
What's going on?
Tell me what's going on, man.
All right, so I'm dead serious when I say that, you know, the previous episodes have
been the most boring time of Mormon history.
We're getting into the fun stuff, finally.
This is the stuff I love to talk about, right?
Because the New York era of Mormon history, that's the stuff everyone talks about.
That's the stuff that is like, it fills a popular Mormon history, as well as like
the apologetic Mormon history, because it's all about who Joseph Smith is and how he's
such an astute Bible scholar and, you know, revealed this Book of Mormon through
Divine Revelation.
Oh, the treasure digging?
No, no, that's anti-Mormon lies.
I don't care about that stuff.
I don't care about it.
What I'm far more interested in is Joseph Smith as a military leader, as a theocrat,
as a dictator, and as a person who is a charismatic cult leader via this cult of
personality and what he's able to accomplish beginning in Kirtland.
Then moving into his most militant era in Missouri that I hope we're going to touch
on a little bit today, but definitely next episode.
And then in Nauvoo, like Nauvoo is truly his experiment of creating a theocracy within
the confines of America and declaring to Congress in a letter that it is a sovereign theocracy,
which is an act of treason in and of itself, right?
Like the trend that we see of Joseph Smith is truly remarkable.
And what's fun, too, is it's patternistic of many cult leaders and what they do and
what they are able to accomplish if enabled the way that Joseph Smith was.
And speculative history can lead us to all sorts of fun and interesting paths of where
Joseph Smith would have taken the Mormons had he not been assassinated while he was a
candidate for the president of the United States.
Yeah.
This is the funds Mormon history that people just generally don't know or talk about much.
This is the fun stuff.
So his Mormons get chased out of Independence, Missouri, and the Mormons in the headquarters
in Kirtland, Ohio, Kirtland, Ohio are like, what are you going to do?
You're a leader.
What is God's word on this?
So Joseph Smith asks for a thousand volunteers to make a military march to, quote unquote,
restore Zion.
That was the promised land of the Mormons.
Independence, Missouri was the promised land.
It is where Sidney Rigdon had drawn up the city plots to build 12 temples surrounded
by 24 auxiliary buildings.
This was to be the Mormon theocracy and the Mormons just got forcibly removed from it.
What does this say about God if he can't protect the Mormons in their promised land?
So you're saying he was going to make Zion great again?
Perfect.
David, you are a gem, sir.
So he gathers together as many volunteers.
He asks for a thousand volunteers.
Well, 200 guys show up.
But a couple of interesting things happened during this, this first military campaign of
Joseph Smith, the first of well, multiple military campaigns.
First thing that happens that's really important, Sidney Rigdon stays in Kirtland
to be the president of the church until Joseph returns.
Now, this is a military campaign.
Joseph Smith goes into this with open eyes, realizing that if this comes down to armed
conflict that he and some of his men might die.
He wants there to be a transition of power to somebody who was like-minded
who could carry the Mormon movement into the next phases and avenge his death.
So he puts Sidney Rigdon as president of the church while he is gone.
He also renames the church to the church of the Latter-day Saints,
which caused its own set of problems because it was no longer,
according to Mormon revelations, the church of Christ.
This is the church of the Latter-day Saints.
And that causes a lot of conflict with Mormons who are like,
no, this is the church of Christ.
It's not the church of Latter-day Saints.
And third most important thing,
Brigham Young had joined the church in 1832.
This was Brigham Young's first foray into
trying to basically carve out a place for himself at the side of Joseph Smith.
This is when Brigham Young first rises to prominence in the mind of Joseph Smith.
Because prior to this, dude's a carpenter.
He's a business owner.
He owns a distillery and an inn.
And he's not really well known to anybody.
Brigham Young is just a guy that joins the church in 1832.
And he's also got a friend named Heber Kimball.
And these two guys are best buddies.
They're best of friends who are going to be the ultimate best of friends in Utah, right?
But at this time, Brigham Young is just a guy.
But he becomes a very valuable tool to Joseph Smith during this military campaign.
So Joe departs with about 100 guys from Kirtland.
And Brigham Young is responsible for collecting together another 100 guys
and holding a rendezvous in Indiana.
And that's where they meet and get to their full forces, the size of their full forces.
So these these soldiers, 205 in number, March from Missouri all the way from Kirtland
all the way to Jackson County, Missouri.
That's a thousand miles.
And at this time, national newspapers were picking up what was going on in Missouri
with the Mormons that the Mormons had just been removed from Jackson County
that this is the promised land.
So people start hearing about this armed band of a thousand Mormons traveling to Missouri
where the Mormons were just forcibly removed and wondering, what does this mean?
What what's happening?
What is going on?
What are we to expect is going to happen once the Mormons arrive in Missouri?
Now, Joe didn't want to show us cards yet.
So people, reporters would write up to this this Mormon band of soldiers.
These men, you know, we say soldiers, they're not, you know, fully uniformed out, right?
They're country bumpkins carrying guns.
So reporters would write up to him and say, who are you?
What are you doing?
And the answers that the Mormons gave were always very vague.
We are travelers.
We are headed from the east to the west.
They would never give a solid answer.
So the reporters couldn't say declaratorily that the Mormons are marching with their own militia
to Missouri across state lines, which is an act of treason, right?
Like crossing a state line with your own militia is an act of treason.
Somebody does that.
You got to do you got to do something about that.
You got to you got to arrest them.
You got to you got to hold a court martial for them.
And you got to shoot them with firing squad because they have committed an act of treason.
But Joe and his boys would never admit to it.
And people knew that Joseph Smith was in this cabal of dudes.
None of the dudes ever told any of those reporters or anybody who came up to him
who Joseph Smith was.
He never stepped forward.
Nobody was ever able to identify him because this was not an age when pictures were available.
You could look up, you know, Google a picture of Joseph Smith.
Nobody knew who Joseph Smith was.
They just knew the name from what all the newspapers were saying about this crazy religious fanatic
and the Gold Bible speculation and the Solomon Spaulding stuff and Sidney Rigdon.
They heard the stories, but they didn't know the face.
So these men make their trip and it is perilous.
It is rife with contention and and people bickering with Joseph Smith about his leadership.
Now, Joe is not a great leader.
He's a charismatic people like him, but he's also kind of an idiot.
And and he doesn't know how to keep his men under control.
And they do like some drills and a guy gets shot in the hand and and they just they're just a bunch of morons.
But what this does do is it provides leverage for the Mormons in Missouri
who are brokering the deal with the Missouri and to chase them out of independence,
because at this time they were settling all of the monetary affairs of the Mormons who had been removed.
So Governor Lilburn Boggs, who had been elected, basically carved out a county for the Mormons to settle.
That's Caldwell County in Missouri remains Caldwell County to this day.
He carved that out as basically the Mormon County.
You can live in Missouri.
You just can't live in independence.
And the Mormons are trying to broker what the Missourians would pay them for their property
that they were removed from that the Mormons hadn't paid people any money for to begin with,
but they had improved the land.
Something to note here as well.
The Mormons were only able to settle in Missouri because of government stimulus.
Because Andrew Jackson had signed the the the Indian Removal Act of 1830.
A ton of land was opened up by the government because all of this land that was inhabited by natives
that they had been removed from was suddenly vacant.
And the government needed white European settlers to go to the land,
put down stakes and improve the land.
Farms, buildings, mills, you know, post offices, whatever.
So the government basically said, if you go to a plot of land and you improve it,
then that's just your land.
That's just yours.
You don't have to pay interest on it.
You don't really have to pay us money for it.
You just go there and settle and improve the land.
So the Mormons were only able to get to Missouri and begin settling there because it didn't cost any money to do it.
You just had to put in the work of improving the land.
Which caused a lot of problems for the Missourians because like these Mormons are settling here.
They're asking for money from the land that we chased them off of.
But the land they just settled there to begin with.
So what is it really worth?
And there's a lot of conflicts.
But suddenly in these negotiations,
you got the pressure of a thousand armed men descending on Missouri.
That ramps everything up.
That makes everything dire.
That means if we don't come to an amicable agreement with the Mormons, we're going to have a war on our hands.
So there are some really interesting effects of all of this, right?
So Joe marches out with his guys.
And there's contention.
There's fights.
There's this guy, Sylvester Smith, no relation to Joseph Smith,
who becomes Joe's whipping boy, basically.
Joe's dog bites this guy.
It's just dumb and it's campy and it's hilarious and it's slapstick.
And it's just quintessential Joe.
He doesn't know what the hell he's doing.
So they finally cross the state line into Missouri.
And that amps everything up.
Because Governor Boggs is saying, don't bring your men here.
Do not bring your men here.
They are not welcome in Jackson County.
And Joe is riling up his soldiers saying, we're going to restore Zion.
We are going to bring our members, the Saints, back to their lands, back to their promised lands in Independence, Missouri.
So here's an unstoppable force meeting an immovable object of the Missouri government and the Missouri citizens.
Eventually, this all breaks down into a single night near what's known as Fishing River.
In Fishing River, the Mormons were camped out and there were storms all over and it was a really bad night.
And the Mormons ended up on basically like this point, this confluence, where two rivers come together.
They were camped out on the point of where these two rivers come together.
The waters rise and they find out that they are surrounded by Missouri militiamen.
And at this time, their hand is kind of called because the Missourians were expecting a thousand men to be descending on Missouri.
But there's 200 Mormons.
So the Missourians essentially fire off a couple of shots to intimidate the Mormons.
And suddenly, miraculously, the next morning, Joe gets a revelation from God.
Verily, I say unto you who have assembled yourselves together that you may learn may learn my will concerning the redemption of mine afflicted people.
Talking, you know, the Mormons in Missouri.
Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the transgressions of my people, they might have been redeemed even now.
But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands,
but are full of all manner of evil and do not impart of their substance as become a saints to the poor and afflicted among them.
For it is my will that these lands should be purchased, and after they are purchased that my saints should possess them according to the laws of consecration, which I have given them.
So no longer are we going in there with guns and buoy knives and blazing.
No, we're just going to buy the lands.
We're just going to purchase the lands and let those commandments, which I have given concerning Zion and her law be executed and fulfilled.
After her redemption, and basically part of this revelation says that we're going home, boys, we're done here.
We're going home, mission accomplished that mission, the very, very George W. Bush mission accomplished like, because this was only the beginning of many troubles with the Mormons in Missouri.
So he gives this fishing reverberation, telling the Mormons, Hey, we're going home.
Joe hadn't budgeted to bring all the boys home.
They had enough provisions to get them out there scarcely, but he didn't have enough to bring them all back.
So all these men are undernourished.
They don't have clean water and cholera outbreaks in the Zion's camp.
And Joe catches it over 70 guys catch it.
I think 13 or 14 of the Zion's camp die.
So the only casualties from Zion's camp is all a bunch of dudes catching cholera and Joe almost dying from it himself.
And notably as well, the guy that we talked about last episode, Algenon Sidney Gilbert, the bishop who was a businessman with Nule K. Whitney.
Algenon Sidney Gilbert was the Bishop of Missouri.
He was running the business in independence and they had brokered with Sidney Gilbert that he could basically sell off the rest of his goods in his store, and then he would be able to leave, as opposed to them just, you know, taking all of his stuff and burning his business to the ground.
So he had an amicable arrangement with the Missouri citizens.
He did not have the ability to sell off his goods, but he had the ability to sell off his goods in his store and then he would be able to leave, as opposed to them just, you know, taking all of his stuff and burning his business to the ground.
He died as well from a cholera.
So instantly one of the primary brokers of all of the negotiations dies.
And the Missourians realized that this big military leader, Joe Smith, is full of nothing but bluster.
And his thousand men are 200 that we could kill in an afternoon.
Suddenly the woman's in the longer threat.
Yeah, exactly.
So all of the leverage that Joe had given his guys in Missouri is gone.
It's all gone.
And the Mormons get boned.
So they settle in Caldwell County and Joe heads back to Kirtland with his tail tucked between his legs.
Okay, okay, so so I'm gonna have to do my thing and chime in and have to press here.
So what the hell happens next, Bryce?
Because I know how this story goes.
It does not stop.
So please feel free to go dumb, dumb, dumb, but then, but then and there's more.
And there's more.
There is always more.
So, oh man, Joe heads back to Kirtland.
And when he gets to Kirtland, people are arguing.
People are bickering.
People are having a problem with his leadership.
People hear before he even gets back to Missouri that that Zion was not restored,
that the promised land and God's promised people are no longer united.
The Mormons are suddenly like all of the things, all their religious convictions,
all their beliefs that Joseph Smith is the one true prophet of God
are immediately cast into question.
And you can't blame them for that, right?
Like he's a charismatic leader.
He's preaching this militant Mormonism and his people get chased out violently.
And he goes in and hangs out with his boys and camps out for a couple of nights.
Like that's not what the Mormons were looking for.
So they're mad.
A lot of Mormons are really mad.
Sydney Rigdon was able to keep a pretty strong hold on the population in Kirtland.
But the Missouri Mormons, the Missouri Mormons, that's Oliver Cowdery.
That's David Whitmer.
That's John Whitmer.
Everything that's good about Joseph Smith is gone.
Everything that they thought he was is gone.
He's giving these revelations and now a whole bunch of the revelations
have become not true anymore.
All of the allure of this charismatic leader is dashed into pieces.
This guy is kind of just a dick.
He's just a dick and he's a dick who doesn't know what he's doing,
which is the worst kind of dick.
Oh, wow.
So let me ask you this, then, Bryce.
If this guy is practically pathetic, he's proven to be false prophet.
He's in many, many people.
Why does this movement still exist?
Why did Mormonism survive?
That's a little outside the scope of our discussion today,
because that includes so many more variables,
and it includes discussing Navu history and who Brigham Young is.
We can't get ahead of ourselves.
Right.
I know.
I know.
I just I guess what I'm saying is it's important.
It's important to know that even with all these failures, it still survives.
And I say that to say, look at early Christianity.
Totally.
Can you imagine why there were so many sects of Christianity?
I mean, if there was anything prior to the war in 70 AD, what we have after,
I guarantee you, is a completely, strangely different version.
And then it goes all over the place with different leader heads
of those sects that splinter off, that disagree with others.
And so I just I like I like to relate to that.
Well, and it's fascinating, too.
It's what it is.
And you see this pattern in all kinds of religious movements for ancient and modern.
And it's almost as if it's like it's like dictators.
They all seem to have the same playbook.
It's like, no, nobody goes to the dictator school.
Nobody goes to cult guru school.
And yet they all have the same intuitive understandings of how people work
and how to manipulate them.
But their their skill sets only go so far.
Like Joseph Smith is a really good Joseph Smith.
Brigham Young is a really good Brigham Young.
And they they yeah, they're not the same people at all.
Well, in every religion needs the charismatic ideas guy
and then the business guy to follow up.
And womanism had that perfectly.
And when you have the businessman who can handle all of the affairs of actually
expanding the church sustainably,
then he is able to capture the the the charismatic leaders like the vestige
of what that charismatic leader was and harness the people's beliefs
to be able to build a sustainable religion.
Joseph Smith was not a businessman,
but the guy who followed him was a brilliant businessman.
And this is how we get the train back on the tracks,
because this is important.
I love what you did there.
This guy, you say Brigham Young,
which we all have heard the name anyone who knows anything.
I mean, I don't know Jack about this whole history,
but I've heard this guy's name and I've heard he's a prophet.
I heard he's very important.
Some people put him even above Joseph Smith to some degree in many ways.
Just just saying this guy helps bring practically half this militia to go.
So he has some power in some sense.
Even during this time,
even though he's nobody really in terms of near Joseph Smith in the church,
you know, status of where he is in power.
In many ways, in many ways, he's the anti-Joseph Smith.
He's the exact opposite of Joseph Smith.
Yeah, for sure.
OK, so now they get back.
Joseph Smith looks like an idiot.
OK, most of them are saying, dude, what the heck?
But Brigham Young, does he help resurrect this?
I mean, what's what happens?
Let me ask you this without I don't know because what happens now?
It's a failure. It's a flunk.
He doesn't look good.
Everything should fall apart.
We shouldn't even know anything,
but this is a blast from the past history.
What is the next thing that happens in history here?
A power play, a power play,
because the the dudes who participated in the Zion's camp,
they were all jaded like they saw the real Joseph Smith that he's an idiot.
And they all felt like this is a failure,
not only in my own credulousness,
but in who I put my belief in this is this is a massive failure.
This this can't be like this is a failure in God, too, right?
This guy is my piece of God and God was wrong about shit.
What do we do?
So Joe moves a power play
and Brigham Young becomes the central figure head of this power play.
Joe creates new priesthoods
and new systems of church government.
So what used to be the church with the priesthood
and the elders are the highest ranks in the church,
Joe creates a presidency with a quorum of apostles
and a quorum of the 70s and the Melchizedek priesthood,
which is now breaks up the the priesthood
that they are all a part of is, you know, the leadership of the church
breaks it down into the ironic, the lesser priesthood
and the Melchizedek, the higher priesthood.
So he creates a very convoluted system of leadership structures
and he elects 12 men to be his apostles.
Brigham Young was one of them.
Martin Harris was one of them.
David Whitmer was Oliver and Oliver Cowdery
and John Whitmer were their own presidency in Missouri.
And at this time, essentially the Missouri leadership
pulls apart from the Kirtland leadership
and Kirtland and Missouri operate as basically independent stakes
because we have Joseph Smith as president of the Kirtland stake
with his counselors, Sydney Richten and Frederick G. Williams.
And then in Missouri, we have their stake, which is David Whitmer as president
and then Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer as his counselors.
So these are two separate independent organizations
that are equal in power and responsibility.
And notably as well, the Missouri or the Kirtland membership
under Joseph Smith's rule in the headquarters in Kirtland, Ohio,
it's like five, six, seven hundred people right now.
By this time in Missouri, we're looking at about two and a half,
three thousand Mormons out there.
So the Missouri stake is a lot bigger
and it has a lot more constraints
and it has a lot more to deal with than the Kirtland church,
especially because they are building stuff in largely a wilderness.
They are improving land that was largely a wilderness,
whereas Kirtland was already a city when Joe got there.
And it doesn't have any room to expand, basically.
So he creates these apostles.
He creates the the Quorums of the 70s.
He creates this high council.
He creates these these power structures
and allows the men to basically have a say
in the affairs of the church,
whereas everything prior to the apostles
and the Quorums of the 70s were run
by Joseph Smith's divine declarations.
Now he has a church government that is ruled
on the concept of common consent,
where everybody has to vote unanimously
for any revelation to be accepted as scripture
or for anything to be done by the church.
So he basically walks back his own power
while retaining the office of president of the church,
but he dilutes his own power base
by creating a system of essentially democracy,
a theodemocracy in his Kirtland church.
And that allows a couple of things.
That allows security.
No longer is he the only person to blame
if everything goes parachaped.
And it creates a feeling of control
for the delay membership and the lower level leaderships
while he's still retaining the final word on everything
because he's he's the prophet, right?
He's the president.
So they can propose stuff, but he can veto it,
but he proposes stuff and they have to approve it
for it to be considered part of church,
doctrine and scripture.
So it creates a power balance where
that was very much needed in Kirtland.
And and this is this is important for so many reasons
because this is the leadership structure
retained by the church today.
And the the priesthoods that we have,
the Aaronic priesthood and the McKessetic priesthood.
This is when that the the the concept of priesthood
evolved into what it is today
and where those priesthoods were separated
as a separate and distinct priesthoods.
Prior to this, these were never a thing,
but that that's only, you know,
that if you listen to Mormon apologetics,
that's not how this goes, not how a story goes.
But, you know, it's always been this way.
It's always. Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, from the beginning, it has ever been.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So so I guess this that idea right there
makes perfect sense.
I had never done serious management, for example,
and I had to lead people in my last job,
kind of learned, you know, from experience
what worked and what didn't naturally.
And I found that when you give people
a sense of ownership in something,
they take not only will they take better care of it,
but it is a shared responsibility type thing.
And you can see how that could easily work out better.
But I could see that being a psychological way of saying this.
This it's going to break.
I think he knew that this was going to all flop
if he didn't make a change like that.
So what what becomes of this?
I every single turn you take us on,
there's always like a repercussion.
And so as much as that's good,
or I'm skipping ahead to say there's some bad
by doing that by saying here,
you guys all have portions and stakes in this thing.
We're going to end up with some problems at the same time,
I suspect.
That's going to create power struggles.
And that happened very much that that happened.
And notably as well, like the first inkling
that Joe had to deal with the power struggles
between the leadership bodies that he just created
was in naming the apostles,
because he gave the three witnesses power
to name who the apostles were.
They weren't just people that he declared.
So he called his brothers to be apostles.
And Brigham Young was like,
hey, your younger brother, William Smith,
you may be dumb, but William Smith is like real dumb.
Real, real, real dumb.
And Brigham Young basically said,
I won't be a member of the apostles if William Smith is.
And this created a fight,
a power struggle between Joseph and William Smith
that became a physical altercation
that William Smith beat the living hell out of Joe,
his older brother.
And eventually after this altercation happened,
and they became bygones, became bygones,
it was generally agreed that William Smith
was acceptable to bring into the apostles.
But there was the strong disagreement from Brigham Young
and from Martin Harris that William Smith
should not be a member of the apostles.
And Joe had to basically advocate for his younger brother
while at the same time dealing with a fight,
like a physical fight between the two of them.
So you see these signals of power struggles
beginning to happen a lot.
Super important as well.
Dr. Felassis Hurlbutt just got back into Kirtland
at the middle of 1834, after Zion's camp is over,
after having collected a ton of affidavits
from Joseph Smith's neighbors about who Joseph Smith is.
I.e. what a huge con artist he is.
Exactly.
Holy crap.
So we have, and William Smith, he was an idiot.
And right when we have a guy at the same time,
as all of this pressure and all this crap's going on,
Joseph Smith has an enemy who is literally ready
to tear him apart from the roots,
finding out who his family were, what they were up to,
who this guy is, all the crap he's done,
and getting affidavits, legal affidavits,
to destroy this man's life.
Exactly.
And importantly too, it wasn't just affidavits
about who the Smiths were from his neighbors.
It was also affidavits from residents of Cognac Creek
who knew Solomon Spaulding saying,
the Book of Mormon?
That is Spaulding's book.
Joseph Smith stole that book.
I don't know how he got it,
but he stole it from Solomon Spaulding.
I don't know how it came into his hands,
but that has all come to pass as work.
So I want to ask about this because not to go into it,
not to go into it, but I just give me 20 seconds.
Okay. Spaulding's theory or Spaulding's book
is the idea that he stole it or plagiarized or whatever.
Okay. Where is that in the Book of Mormon,
that this is a part that like a part of it
is in the Book of Mormon?
Or what it was Spaulding's book was the view of the Hebrews.
I believe the title was.
No.
And it, no.
Manuscript found.
Manuscript found.
But it's a story of an archaeological mystery romance,
if you will, along the same lines of this.
This Victorian, this 18th century idea of
there was lost civilizations in the Americas
that we know nothing about.
And here's their story.
And so this, this finds its way into the Book of Mormon
in some sense or.
Well, the Book of Mormon is another of that genre, if you will.
Okay.
Yeah. A person who's an advocate for the Spaulding theory
would say that Spaulding's unfinished manuscript
was at the printing at the Patterson printing press
and Sidney Rigdon stole that manuscript
and added his own theological ideas to it
and then gave it to Joseph Smith
to be published as the Book of Mormon.
So that basically all of the content that we find
in the Book of Mormon, that's the historical narrative
that that all came from Solomon Spaulding
and it was all stolen by Sidney Rigdon.
And then Rigdon just added in his own sermons
from the various prophets in the Book of Mormon.
So that's, that's the idea.
So Herobot comes back into Kirtland carrying this folder
of all these affidavits, all of this information
about how Joseph Smith stole the Book of Mormon
from a dead guy, about how he's a grifter,
how he's a conman, how he uses a seer stone
to look for buried treasure, how he believes
in magic spirits and the toad that transformed
and knocked him from the stone box a few rods, right?
And he begins lecturing in Kirtland, in Pittsburgh,
in Baltimore.
He begins lecturing everywhere while he's collecting
all these affidavits about what he's the information
that he's finding, all of his research.
So he gets back into Kirtland and he confronts Joseph Smith
and Joseph Smith and him get in a fist fight.
And this is at the time, right?
This is right after, right, right after Zion's camp
where Joe looked like a total moron.
Then this guy comes into town with affidavits
proving that Joseph Smith's a conman.
And what, like, what do you do if you're Joe?
You do whatever to get rid of that guy,
just silence that guy to get him out of town.
So Joe files a complaint, a legal complaint against Hurlbut
and Hurlbut ends up getting arrested, not Joe.
I don't know exactly the details on how that happened,
but Hurlbut basically understands that because of what
had happened, because of that legal complaint,
if he publishes his work, then he's not gonna be seen as credible.
So instead, he sells all of his work to a publisher
in nearby Painesville.
Painesville is about 30, 40 miles from Kirtland.
It's the nearest large city to Kirtland.
Well, it's about equidistance to Cleveland as well.
So Painesville, the Painesville Telegraph
had been reporting on the Mormons a lot.
And this guy, Iber D. Howe, that was his paper.
So Hurlbut sells all of his research to Iber D. Howe.
And Iber D. Howe works with a committee of researchers
to put together all of their research, all of Hurlbut's research,
all of their treatment of the page by page takedown
of the Book of Mormon, everything, and then publishes it
as Mormonism Unveiled.
And that becomes the first full book length expose of Mormonism.
And it's published in December of 1834 at this time
when Joe is looking like a complete idiot.
So he gets beat up by his own brother.
Then he fistfights this dude.
Who won that one?
Did Joe get his butt kicked again?
Yeah, because Hurlbut just had to sell his research.
Joe, whether or not Joe won the fistfight,
Joe won the character assassination war.
OK. Wow. Damn.
Yeah. OK.
And all of this time, Joe is also continuing
to run the church way deeper into debt
because they're building the temple.
And he's a terrible businessman,
but he's trying to micromanage all of his dozens of businesses,
dozens of businesses that were orchestrated
and run by the United Order.
So he's running into debt.
He's running his church into debt.
The Kirtland Temple is costing $40,000 to $60,000 of 1830 money
to build.
And that's resources the Mormons don't have.
And he's just building it all on credit.
And there are power struggles going on.
There are disagreements going on.
There are other people claiming
that they have the powers of prophecy.
There's a young girl, an unnamed young girl
who claims that she can receive revelations
and that Joseph Smith is in transgression.
And just a lot of bad things are stacking together
and also lawsuits.
People are starting to his his debtors
are beginning to file lawsuits against him
because he's not paying any of his debts.
Is he getting these loans from local banks and stuff?
I mean, what more from local business owners?
Not not so much from banks from mostly from business owners
and just, you know, notes of IOUs.
It just not doing.
He's also not very good at paperwork.
That's really going to bite him in Navu.
But he's he's bad at paperwork.
Like the Book of Mormon.
Seriously, wait till we start talking
about the banking situation.
It gets even worse.
She gets even worse.
So he's got to answer all these debts.
So his brother, William Smith, tells him
that this guy came to him and said,
hey, I know about some buried treasure.
We just got to go to Boston.
So to answer all of these these debts,
Joe and a couple of his buddies,
I think 17 guys in total,
go with William Smith and this guy to Boston
where they believe that they can find some buried treasure.
You would think that's a callback.
You would think of all the people to not fall for that.
It would be of all the people.
Exactly.
So that this happens in 1836.
Joe heads out to Boston to go
find this buried treasure and doesn't find anything.
They they rent a house and they stay in Boston
for a couple of for like a month and a half or something.
And it's weird too,
because like nobody would know about this.
If not for a single letter that Joseph Smith sent
to his wife, Emma, in I think it's April or no, no.
Sorry, it's July.
I think July of 1836,
where he talks about the Lord's promises here
are not in temporal affairs.
And he'll make his promises known to us.
So he sent a letter to his wife saying like,
well, we didn't find the treasure,
but you know, we'll find something.
And they just like hung out in Boston
for a for like a month and a half.
But also at this time, the Fanny Alger incident breaks.
The Fanny Alger scandal breaks and people are livid.
David.
What is this?
How do I how do I reveal this?
As Emma put it, I believe she,
okay, first, first for the back of my mind.
So the Smiths take in a.
Alger breaking up.
And I've tried again.
Broke out.
Okay.
So the Smiths take in a girl into their household
out of the goodness of their heart to give this poor
orphan waif a home.
And then one day, Emma is hears some funny noise
from the barn, I guess, and peers in through a knothole.
And Joseph Smith and Fanny are caught in flagrante delicto.
I believe the Latins call it.
And so, yeah.
So, so Fanny and Joseph are going at it in the barn.
Emma sees the whole thing.
She is not happy about it.
Years later, as the doctor of polygamy gets cited,
they will retroactively years later say, oh, wait,
this must have been the first of his plural wives.
That's right.
But she spent her whole life knowing none of that.
And, you know, years later, decades later,
even after Joseph was gone, she wouldn't talk about it anymore.
But otherwise, I believe Oliver Caldry, I can remember he said,
called it refer to it as the dirty, filthy little affair.
Something dirty, nasty, filthy, dirty, nasty, filthy affair.
And you know what, he's not wrong.
That's not pretty.
He is not wrong.
So they adopted this person.
Well, they took her in as a serving girl.
They're helping her as a serving girl, you know.
Yeah.
Oh, the maid.
Yeah, scooping the maid.
Yeah, exactly.
So did you, like, is it, was it like, and let me just ask,
it was this a reoccurring affair taking place in their home?
It depends on who you ask.
Yeah.
And I believe it.
I'll ask you guys.
It ended up with Emma tossing her,
literally physically tossing her out of the house because of that.
Yep.
So this scandal actually breaks while Joe was out of town,
while he is in Boston.
And he heads back to Boston with some of his friends.
And he is met about a day's ride out of town, out of Kirtland,
by Brigham Young.
And Brigham Young tells Joseph Smith,
the Quorum of Apostles are going to assassinate you.
You got to be careful and tells Joe to watch his back.
So Brigham Young rides back with Joseph Smith,
telling him what's going on,
the conversations that the Apostles have been having while he's been off in Boston
and playing around and looking for buried treasure as the church is massively in debt,
as terrible things are going on,
as these scandals are breaking,
as lawsuits are being filed,
as the church is in bankruptcy because of his terrible business practices.
Basically, there's a small cabal of the Apostles
who just want to kill Joseph Smith,
just want him to be done and over with.
And there's a lot more stuff going on that it's hard to get into.
It's really hard to discuss exactly what happened here
because a lot of it was never recorded.
A lot of it was conversations that these guys were having with each other behind closed doors,
that there were no scribes,
there was nobody remembering it.
It's just like they were just riled up.
They were just mad at Joseph Smith.
They were just going to kill him.
Right?
And everybody had buoy knives at this time.
All the Mormons, everybody.
Pistols and buoy knives.
And they knew how to use them.
Yep.
Yeah.
Do we want to get into the Danites and Samson Alvard yet?
Or should we wait?
That's not yet.
Not yet.
Okay.
What we do have though,
so there are a couple of other elements to consider here.
We also have the dedication of the Kirtland Temple.
And this spawned all of my research
about psychedelics and early Mormonism.
Because we can't leave.
You can't leave me.
Dude, hold on.
You guys are way more advanced than me.
I'm a dummy here.
You cannot leave me with.
They're wanting to assassinate him to,
well, let's talk about this over here.
They're going to distinct.
What the heck is this?
Is this something about to happen in light of that or something?
I mean, we'll pick that up in a sec.
We'll pick that up in just a second.
All right.
So a few months before Joe makes his trip out to Boston,
they dedicate the Kirtland Temple.
And a bunch of the leadership comes up from Missouri,
makes a thousand mile trek up to Kirtland from Missouri
to attend this dedication ceremony.
And there's a thousand people at this thing.
It's huge.
It's the biggest event.
It's a project that the church had been working on for four years.
And that Joe had promised that it would be a day of Pentecost,
that it would be the most amazing day that we would see angels.
And the Mormons fast for the day before,
and then drink a ton of wine, a ton of wine.
And the thing is, is like, you can have hallucinations from alcohol.
You just have to be very close to dead.
But if there's something in the wine,
a very, very small dosage of it,
a very small cup of it on an empty stomach
is going to make you see all kinds of cool stuff.
So as I was, personally, when I was doing this on the podcast,
or researching this for naked Mormonism,
I'm reading all of these accounts,
these firsthand accounts from people who attended it,
who were seeing angels flying through the rafters,
who were watching God and Jesus walk through the pews,
who are people who thought that the roof of the temple was on fire,
people who hear a rushing mighty wind,
people who are like really crazy stuff.
And I'm like, this just sounds like drugs.
It just sounds like the wine was drugged.
And that's led to me publishing a couple of papers on this
and working with a few small other group of scholars
and historians who have discussed this as a possibility.
And I will say, the historians who I've talked to,
almost all of them, they're like,
I never thought about it, but now you mention it.
Interesting. Let me see your paper on it.
Here you go.
I was one of those people,
because it explains every single mass hysteria so well.
Go ahead.
And yeah, we take it for granted
that you get a bunch of crazy religious people in the same room.
They will all start seeing these things,
but it makes even more sense if they get a little help
to help the Holy Spirit move them.
Right.
Especially if there is a damper going on in the movement
and they need a reassurance.
And so I don't know about you guys,
but look, we can be as real as possible.
Let's be as real as possible.
If you were Joseph Smith and you were like,
I got to make sure these guys seek God.
Okay.
That's right.
Like, let's make sure they believe again.
And sometimes you need that, right?
While you're a Christian, your faith might be like,
and then something reassures you,
well, this would be the nail in the coffin
on making sure that I believe this is true.
And I'm with you.
Like, I have a same funny hunch
that most of these ancient religions in the world,
there have been common practices
of using something psychedelic
in some sense of the way, whether it's a tree bark,
whether it comes from some animal,
whether it's from whatever mushroom you name it.
And I think that they, that was common practice,
especially with shamans and things like that.
So, and he's into magic.
He's touching toads and I mean, come on, man.
Like, you know, I'm with you, Bryce.
That's an interesting angle.
Yeah.
So if people want to read my paper on it,
I would recommend you Google
entheogenic origins of Mormonism, a working hypothesis.
It was published in the Journal of Psychedelic Studies
at the end of last year.
And that's where we lay it out.
You know, it's a long paper.
It's a very long paper, but we basically just do
a very brief overview of early Mormon history
with examining the psychedelic angle of all of it
and lay it out what I think to be very convincingly.
That aside, a number of the people
who defected from Joseph Smith around this time
very soon after it said that there was no endowment.
This is known as the endowment, right?
This is the Mormon endowment, the temple dedication of Kirtland.
This is the Mormon endowment.
The first time that it was ever,
that term was ever actually used.
People said, like Willie McClellan said,
that there was no endowment that day
except the endowment was with the wine.
Like people recognized at the time that something's fishy.
Something's weird here.
And that's yet one more thing, one more pressure
that's playing into these power struggles
that Joe is dealing with.
So Brigham Young Rides out and tells Joseph Smith,
hey, they're going to assassinate you.
And Joe learns to watch his back and figure out,
okay, so I got to figure out something else.
I got to figure out how to deal with this.
So he forms what is known as the Brother of Gideon Society.
And we only know about the Brother of Gideon Society
from one passage, from one contemporary source.
That's the only thing that talks about it.
But this is a precursor of Joe's personal bodyguards, the Danites.
He forms this in the Brother,
he forms this Brother of Gideon Society
as basically his personal bodyguards in Kirtland.
And at the same time,
he's still trying to figure out ways
to deal with all of the debts
because he owes a lot of people,
a lot of dark and shady figures, a lot of money.
So this is when he conceives of creating a bank, making a bank.
Oh my goodness.
David, give us a skinny on this.
Oh, yeah, let me grab the book for this
because I don't want to miss anything in here.
What you've got to understand is this time,
Ohio's banking system was already completely bonkers.
There were at least 300 different kinds
of authorized bank notes floating around,
not to mention loads of illegal notes and outright counterfeits.
And they were called colorful names like Yellow Dog, Red Cat,
Smooth Monkey, Blue Pup, and Sick India.
Quick point here.
The greenbacks that we use today, that's the Civil War.
This is still 20 years before the dollars that we use today.
Right, right.
There is no such thing as paper money
as we know it's what they call a paper money disease
because there's no, there's wildcat banks
that are just cranking out whatever.
A cat literally just jumped over the couch
when you said wildcat banks, literally.
I'm dead.
It's the latest miracle.
It is, thank you.
It's the latest miracle.
Well, so this is what they find themselves at.
It's like, well, here's how we solve our debt problem.
We just print out the money.
We just make ourselves.
So overnight, the Kirtland Safety Society Bank is born.
But the Ohio legislators already on board
with this chaotic financial mess,
and so they crack down and they refuse to incorporate this bank.
So overnight, the Kirtland Safety Society Bank becomes
the anti-society banking society, anti-banking company,
which they did by taking their, their paper money
that says bank of and stamping anti-banking company
on each and every bill they print out.
Derek, can you show the picture of the dollar bill there?
Yep.
I'm showing it right now.
Yes, it's so good.
And on this bill, you see the signatures
of Sidney Rigdon as president
of the Kirtland Safety Society Anti-Banking Company
and Joseph Smith as the cashier, right?
Like this, this dollar bill that you're seeing right here
is a really important bill.
And these, I'll let you know if you can find these,
they're really rare.
These are collector items today, but you can see
where it has Kirtland Safety Society Bank.
And then you see, it's like, it's almost like
it's handwritten anti and ing on either side of the word bank
and in society.
It's so, it's so half-assed and after the fact.
Amazing.
It's adorable.
And so that's how they get all this crushing load of debt
off their backs.
And of course, any customer who entertain doubts about this,
they could just go into the bank and see for themselves
that the vault is filled with these boxes,
each labeled $1,000 with shiny silver, 50 coins.
It's like, oh, that's great.
What they didn't know is except for that top layer,
the boxes were filled with, and I quote,
sand, lead, old iron, stone, and combustibles.
So less than a month after the bank's opening.
No, hey, yeah.
How great of a microcosm of Mormonism is that, right?
Like, if you just scrape off just the top layer
of silver coins, you're like, oh, that's dynamite.
Holy shit.
It's all crap.
Dude.
So yeah, the bank had been operating illegally from day one
and about a month later, the jig is up and a newspaper
started expressing skepticism up with their financial worth,
and instantly there's a panic and everyone does a run on the bank
to get their money out of there.
But add into this Andrew Jackson's species circular.
Andrew Jackson, his last thing, basically his last thing
that he did in office was sign, the species circular,
which made it so the government would not accept
any of these bills for taxes.
They would only accept hard gold and silver for taxes,
which means that all this paper money, it's all well and good
if we're using it to trade.
But if you actually got to use it to buy any land from the government
or to do it to transact any official business,
this paper money is worth the paper.
That's it.
Exactly.
We're not doing barter taxes here.
That's right.
So yeah, and out of state merchants would start refusing their notes.
Bills would come back and no bank, no other bank would touch them.
So Joseph, secretary in the acting bank cashier,
Warren Parrish resigned in disgust, quit the church,
and began to openly describe the church's shaky banking practices.
So he quickly closed up shop to avoid a run on the bank
because everyone with Kirtland bank bills in their wallets
was desperately trying to get rid of them.
Well, and this thing ran for almost a year.
Like they drafted the charter for it in, I think it's December 36.
And it's running, and Joe is basically running it as cashier
with Sidney Ridden and as president until I think like March or April of 1837
when both of them resign.
And them resigning is what apologists use to defend Joseph Smith's actions
and all of this that he won't know.
This is all after people.
No, it all happened after him.
It's no, this is his brainchild.
I don't even know this guy.
Yeah, exactly.
It was everything was going so well when I was in charge
and then I handed over and just go straight to hell.
Let's see what else happened.
It just it gets dumber and dumber.
But anyway, you got a few more minutes, guys.
So let's try and wrap this thing up.
We're getting close to the end of this hour.
Yeah, we got a little more parish.
Warren Parrish, that's a great name.
Let's do.
Right.
No, you go, you go.
All right.
So Warren Parrish wasn't the only guy that got burned
by the Kirtland Safety Society.
Everybody did.
Everybody sunk at what they had in there
because Joe gave a revelation that this is the last bank,
like this is God's bank and commanded people to buy stock in it
and to take out notes and to give all their life savings
and all their property into the bank.
And they would get the Safety Society notes
in response for those things.
They're also trying to buy up a bunch of land in Missouri
for the women's to settle there with these bank notes.
And the bank notes were being accepted some places
and then refused other places.
Or they would be accepted in one month.
And then the next month they'd be like,
no, you got to take these things back.
These are plutonium.
I don't want anything to do with these things.
So it's William Phelps.
It's the Cowdries.
It's the Whitmer's.
It's Warren Parrish.
It's Martin Harris.
It's everybody gets burned by this whole scandal.
And also this is nationwide.
This is the panic of 1837 because Andrew Jackson's
signing that species circular made it so all of these
Wildcat banks collapsed.
And overnight, I think it's something like 900 banks failed.
And this set off the panic of 1837.
This is the Great Depression 0.5.
So it wasn't just the Kirtland bank that collapsed.
It was a lot of banks and sent everybody into a spiral.
But the Mormons took this as once again,
Joe's God proving himself to be a complete idiot
because Joe was saying that the word of God
this is our bank.
This is the bank of God.
This is Zion, the New Jerusalem.
And all these things that Joe is revealing are all going wrong.
He's also a terrible businessman.
So eventually, Martin Harris,
they begin holding these meetings in the Kirtland,
church meetings in the Kirtland Temple.
And it's great, but the Kirtland Temple,
it caused them so much pain and anguish
to build it in the first place.
And now they're suffering with the debts from it.
So one of the primary debt holders, yeah.
Oh, I was just going to say.
And again, this million-jillion-dollar temple
is the only thing in the town that's not a shantyshack.
They sucked all the money out of the church to build this.
Yeah, absolutely.
And just siphoned everything off of the Mormons too.
The Mormons are giving everything that they have to this.
They're paying tithing by spending one out of every 10 days
working on the temple itself.
They are so destitute to begin with.
And Joe is just sucking and he's bleeding these rocks.
They don't have anything else to give.
Love from a stone, yeah.
Yeah.
So add in to all this, right?
So there's this guy, a creditor of Joseph Smith,
named Grandesson Newell.
And Joe owes this guy well over $1,000.
And Sidney Rigdon too, right?
So Joe and Sidney Rigdon are co-presidents of the church.
And Joe decides he doesn't want to pay this guy.
So he orders a couple of his boys
from the Brother of Gideon Society to assassinate this guy.
Well, this guy finds out about it
and he files a complaint against Joseph Smith.
Let's put a pin in that for a moment.
What did he do again now?
Yeah, a guy he owed money to.
Joe commanded it in the name of the Lord
for his boys to kill this guy.
So his bodyguard has now become
a secret police enforcer racket, yeah.
Yeah, and this is when he debuts this idea
and he doesn't learn from the mistake.
He keeps on trying to do this stuff
a lot more into a Missouri Nauvoo, right?
But like if we're taking stock
of everything that we're seeing here,
this is a guy who's a charismatic religious leader,
perpetually a bad businessman.
He's in debt tens of thousands of dollars
to a lot of different people at the same time.
His own followers don't know if they can trust him,
who he has bled dry of every resource.
And now he is commanding people
in the name of God to assassinate somebody.
Add in to that the Fanny Alger scandal
and the problems with polygamy.
The Dr. Falassus Hurlbut and the Spalding scandal,
all of these scandals put together.
And now Joseph Smith is commanding somebody
in the name of God to assassinate someone.
That he owes money to.
Yeah, my good bro.
I don't even want you to go any further.
I seriously think that you said enough
when you said the guy finds out.
That's I mean, that's enough to put a needle in it.
I honestly believe because it and I have some question.
I want to know, you know, what's going to happen?
So should we should we pick up with the Parishites
and the temple brawl next time then?
Should we put a pin in it right there
and and pick up with the Parishites next?
Yeah, let's stop with it.
Let's stop with the impending murder for hire.
And yeah, yeah, my gosh.
If you're not as fascinated with these guys
talking about this history as I am, quit YouTube.
OK, just quit it.
Just go somewhere.
This is unbelievable stuff, you guys.
I'm I'm fascinated.
I've never even thought this was what what what happened.
I'm sure there's more cult leaders like this,
but I don't know if you can top this one, man.
Like this guy, he survived all this.
Like what? Right.
Well, you know, for a while.
Well, for a while, he had a good run.
She had a good run.
And it's still alive.
Yeah.
Everything that we've discussed today,
last episode and today, this is all child's play to Navu, right?
This is this is all the prototyping
because he streamlines these processes
and he gets so much more dangerous.
As we'll be finding out.
Yeah, what we can look forward to.
Stay tuned. Stay tuned.
My gosh, ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description.
Make sure you guys help support these guys.
I mean, I'm like, thankful you guys are teaching me this much.
I don't know if I would ever have learned this.
Honestly, I and it's so much fun.
I know that you're having fun watching this.
So help these guys out in any way you can.
If you can, I'm not going to pretend that God said to go help them out.
I'm not going to do that.
Let's start a bank.
Yeah. So if you guys send a hundred dollars each.
Riley says, please send help.
That might convince some people to.
That's that's more like it.
Yeah.
Hit the cap.
And so thank you guys.
I appreciate this.
Until next time.
Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are myth vision.
