Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to the show, MythVision podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
We're going right into early Mormonism, Joseph Smith, the craziest story you will ever hear
from two wonderful, brilliant men on this topic.
We have David Fitzgerald, author of The Complete Heretics Guide, and Mormonism, if I'm not mistaken.
Is it the same book?
Is it one text?
The Wizard of the Sky to Western Religions, the series, book one is The Mormons.
Yes, I have that down in the description.
So everybody needs to go down there, get this book.
He's written on this, and Bryce Blankeneggles actually read this back in the day.
We're influenced by a lot of this stuff, but you've gone and got your, like, fifth, sixth
degree black belt.
And you're the host of Naked Mormonism podcast.
So I have two of the greatest when it comes to critical thought on this topic that are
just ready to sing dum, dum, dum, dum, dum, with me on the show.
And you left us hanging last time.
I just said, dude, we should have done another recording, but I can't steal you away from
your families.
Joseph Smith is someone's trying to kill this guy.
I mean, you have, you have his, what later becomes his prophet, if you will, one of the
guys who follows him, predecessors of Joseph Smith comes on the scene and he says, listen,
man, watch your back.
Someone they're wanting to kill you.
They're planning, they're plotting.
Someone's trying to assassinate you.
Watch your back.
And mind you, they're talking about members of their own church saying this leadership,
the leadership, the highest leadership body of the church.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What do we do from here?
Talk to me, bro.
We got to, we got to talk about a few primary figures in all of this, right?
And Brigham Young is obviously one of them.
Brigham Young is somebody who joined the church and he made himself valuable to Joseph Smith
during the first military campaign, Zion's Camp that we talked about last episode.
Brigham Young is increasingly making himself more valuable to Joseph Smith because he's
a good businessman.
He's a guy who doesn't like to be in the limelight, just wants to be on the edge of
it while making everything on the back end a run like a well-oiled machine in spite
of the fact that Joseph Smith is a terrible businessman.
So Brigham Young is becoming more and more influential in the church and more prominent
and Joseph Smith is beginning to listen to him more, which is really going to help quite
a bit during the Missouri Mormon War, which I hope we're going to get around to at some
point here.
Yes, Missouri Mormon War.
We don't learn about that in American history books.
So Brigham Young is one of these figures.
But Joseph also has a few friends who are his dark and solely kind of figures.
We have Dr. Samson of Ard and Porter Rockwell.
And you know, I, for naked Mormonism, it's kind of divisive, but I've made up nicknames
for a lot of these prominent figures in the church because it's so much easier to remember
a nickname of somebody, right?
So if I ask somebody, you know, what's the difference between William McClellan, William
Phelps, and William Smith, only people who know Mormon history know why those figures
are different, distinct, and important individuals on what they're important for.
But if I say, you know, Professor Bill and Double Dub Phelps and Crazy Willie Smith, people
understand the stories that are associated with those nicknames.
So Porter Rockwell, I gave the loving nickname of pistol pack in Porter Rockwell.
Which is nice.
I always thought of him as Chewbacca if you got rabies.
Beautiful, beautiful, absolutely.
So I'm going to put up on the screen a picture of Porter Rockwell because he's somebody who,
you know, you see an image of him and you're like, well, of course, of course, this is
one of Joe's gunmen.
So here he is.
This is our man, Oren Pistol Pack in Porter Rockwell.
Now this guy was actually a childhood friend of Joseph Smith's.
He was, I believe, six years younger than Joe.
And he was the youngest member to be baptized into the church at the very beginning, the
foundations of the church, April 6th, 1830.
This is Porter Rockwell.
And this is a guy who would go on to be an infamous and terrifying figure.
And you can see here a different picture of him that I'm going to bring up because this
is, you see his hair is cut right here, right?
Well, in the future, Porter Rockwell gets captured and he returns after being captured
for space like 17 months, he returns to Nauvoo and there's a brawl in the bar of Joseph Smith's
Nauvoo mansion.
Yeah, Joseph Smith ran a bar out of his mansion.
And Joe thought that it was a Missourian who came in and was roughing up some of the Mormons
down there.
And he went down to find out what was going on.
And it turns out this guy, Porter Rockwell, had returned a triumphant return.
And at that point, Joseph Smith gave him a prophecy that if he never cuts his hair that
no blade nor bullet can harm him, which ended up being one of Joseph's few true prophecies.
So this is him later in life here.
Exactly.
And that's a riff on the Samson vow, the Nazarite vow that Samson goes.
So it's, there's a very strong biblical precedent for it.
Yes.
This is very important for everyone watching to understand why I say go in the description
and check these guys out.
I'm only going to plug this one more time.
I have to say this upfront.
You guys really need to check out the Naked Mormonism podcast and David Fitzgerald's book.
There's so much more detail to this than what we're doing.
So with that being said, please tell me more about the crazy prophecies and stuff.
Keep going.
Keep going.
Can I put in one quick plug before we continue our on Apollo?
I don't know how many of you know, and I can't remember if we said this during the show or
before the show, but I've written a science fiction time travel trilogy as well with my
wife Dana.
And one of the characters in book three is Porter Rockwell.
He does look rough.
I mean, I'm not.
That looks like he's taken a few lives like he just looks like it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You just look those eyes.
Those ice blue deaf eyes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Exactly.
And we have, I mean, and the stories of Porter Rockwell's exploits and him strong arming
people and him just, just being generally a bastard are, are replete throughout Mormon
history, especially in the Utah era, which we're not going to really get much into in
this series because there's, there's just so much that we have to cover still.
But he's, he is, he's Joe's gunman.
He's one of Joe's shadow enforcers.
The later on, you know, we're going to discuss Porter Rockwell more as we come up as well
as Porter Porter and Joe's friend, Dr. Samson of art and Dr. Samson of art is yet another
one of these kind of solely kind of figures who is much more given to the concept of whatever
in life will get me ahead.
That's what I'm going to believe in.
And Joe tended to thrive off of his, his movement, having many of those people in high ranking
positions.
We really do see a program of all this rogues gallery that swarmed on early Mormonism.
It's fascinating.
It's fascinating.
And Brigham Young was very much one of these guys, much, much of an opportunity as somebody
who would, you know, he, he doesn't matter what he believes, if he happens to be scraping
the cream off of the top of anything that's going on, then he's happy.
And as long as no one crosses him, then that they don't get a dirt nap.
Porter Rockwell, Samson of art, Brigham Young, these guys are all birds of a feather.
So as we get into this, this period, there's a lot of contention in the Kirtland church
in 1836, 37, right?
Cause there's so many, there's so much debt going on in the church that people were blaming
Joseph Smith for rightfully.
But you know, the Kirtland safety society had been started and it had failed and people
were out their entire life savings.
The Fannie Alger affair had happened that the leadership became well aware of.
And there are just many other factors that are playing into this.
And that the debt of the church was a massive, massive issue.
Now once again, Joseph Smith was a terrible businessman and he never incorporated the
church.
He never made a corporation to basically assume the liabilities of all of his business ventures.
All of the church properties, everything that he ran, everything that the United firm controlled
in the communalistic system of the church was all in his and Sidney Rigdon's personal
names, which made them personally liable for the $60,000 in 1830 money that they were
owing to creditors.
So Joe gets this warning that the, uh, bring them young tells Joe that the, the quorum
of apostles are fed up and that they are, they just, they want to kill them.
They want them out of the way, which is not the first time that somebody's want to kill
Joseph Smith.
This is a common theme in this guy's life.
He was just a kind of abrasive guy, a very polarizing people loved him or hated him,
but everybody had an opinion.
So Joe knows that he's got some, he's got some, some people to look out for.
He's got to watch out because there's some stuff that's going to happen that is going
to be out of his control, that he has to take what is going on, all of this fury, all of
this anger, all of this pent up frustration with all the Mormons, and he has to channel
it.
And one of the ways that he does that is making enemies of the people who aren't Mormons,
the Gentiles around.
So he gets back into Curlin and he's watching his back.
He knows that he's, uh, that he has Porter Rockwell and Samson of art and bring them
young watching his back and he's going to be safe.
As long as those guys never, you know, leave, never, never are not around him, he's going
to be safe.
So he begins to preach about the Gentiles and how evil the Gentiles are.
And in Mormon theology, there are Jews and Gentiles.
The Jews are the chosen people of God.
The Gentiles are everyone who hasn't accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ and every Mormon
gets what they call their patriarchal blessing and your patriarchal blessing declares your
Jewish lineage.
So according to Mormon theology, I'm Jewish because I got my patriarchal blessing.
I'm from the tribe of Ephraim.
Um, I'm not actually Jewish.
I just, I just got a blessing telling me that I am a perdition.
Yeah.
Well, now I am.
Yeah.
Right.
Exactly.
So let me get this straight.
You just dropped a bomb and we've come this far guys.
It took six episodes for Bryce to drop a nugget.
You were a Mormon at one point.
Yeah.
I grew up Mormon in Utah.
We knew that till now.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Hey, listen to Naked Mormonism.
You'll hear, right?
Right.
I'm just saying, I'm just saying now if they haven't seen it, you got to go check it out.
This guy is well aware of this thing.
So this is awesome.
Well, and we are going to, I'm fingers crossed.
I hope that we're going to do a standalone episode.
You can discuss almost all of Mormon history without ever discussing anything about the
theology.
Right.
So some aspects require discussions of the theology like polygamy, like the endowment
and the Masonic ceremonies and stuff like that.
Right.
So some of those things require a little dabbling into the theology of Mormonism, but standalone,
I think it would be really fun to do one of these series episodes, maybe near the end
or something where we can go through kind of the totality and the evolution of Joseph
Smith's Mormonism and how it's kind of changed and evolved and adapted into modern day practice.
Anyway, so yes.
David, you didn't though.
I did not.
In fact, it's ironic.
I was raised Southern Baptist and then I became an atheist and Mormonism is one of
the few things my atheist brain and my Southern Baptist brain can agree on is that, well,
the Mormons are really crap.
We know that.
So when I was a little kid, you know, I was an apologetic for Christianity, but I was
a tough skeptic on every other religion like Jobas Witnesses and Mormons.
They're all satanic.
They're all satanic counterfeits of real Christianity.
In fact, maybe we should do an episode on our deconversion process because that's very
interesting.
I always love hearing that and I'd love to hear from you and I enjoy sharing mine because
one of my first thoughts was, oh my God, I'm just like the Mormons and the Jobas Witnesses.
My mind, my mind and anyway, we digress.
So Job begins to rally the Mormons together.
He channels his charisma into common enemies, right?
And like when you are facing so much criticism from within your own ranks, the only thing
that you can do is, is, you know, create scandal after scandal to take everybody's mind off
how much they are mad at you and make them mad at a common enemy, which are the Gentiles.
Point the finger.
Point the finger.
God, where have I seen that political philosophy?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Really weird.
It's really weird.
It's so patternistic and it's all, you know, history repeats itself.
It's mind-blowing.
That's, you know what?
A quick note on that because everything you're saying about Joseph Smith and Brigham Young,
they match the same pattern we see in Jobas Witnesses who had a charismatic founder and
then a business savvy guy who came in.
I mean, even Lenin and Stalin is kind of the same dynamic.
You get, you get the first guy who's the visionary, who brings everybody in, he's the
idea man.
Everybody loves him because he's charismatic.
Then you get the hard as nails bastard who's, you know, who toughens it up and turns it
into a viable business.
Yeah.
Systematizes.
Systematizes.
And again, yeah, if you say we see this pattern over and over again.
Yep.
So, yeah, and Joseph Smith was in a constant tension of systematizing and then keeping
things charismatic and unpredictable and exciting.
And scandals are a way to kind of cause that vacillation to bounce back and forth.
Another thing to note here is the High Council Smith created in Kirtland, his High Council
and his High Council was just a council made up of the highest leadership of the church,
which functioned almost as a secular court, a secular government.
It would hold the tribunals.
And that is where they would determine people's viability as a member of the church.
And of course, when a demagogue like Joseph Smith is wielding a court system, a tribunal
court system like this, as the chairman of it, he can use it, he can weaponize it to
come out into all sorts of possible means, whatever he wants, right?
So somebody makes him mad.
Somebody does something he doesn't like.
He gets the High Council on his side and then they excommunicate that person, even when
Joseph Smith was in the wrong.
And this is a pattern that he began to practice early in New York with the elders quorum.
The elders were the people who ran the church in all ecclesiastical matters, but it needed
to be systematized and the High Council was one way that he was doing this.
This created some problems because it was a merriment of the secular and of ecclesiastical
authorities and the people were very averse to religion infringing on the political system.
Weird.
I would love if people were more aware of that nowadays.
Yeah.
So he's using this tribunal to punish people for doing all sorts of things.
And most of the times it was church-related things, and oftentimes it was un-Christian-like
conduct, which was an umbrella term that he would use to assail the characters of anybody,
including Dr. Philasus Herobot, the guy who collected all of the affidavits from Joseph
Smith's neighbors about how lazy and how horrible of a family they were and collected
all of the affidavits about the spalling theory, right?
So un-Christian-like conduct became a broad term to describe anybody who was doing something
that Joseph Smith personally didn't approve of.
And in a couple episodes from now, when we get to the point of the Mormon Reformation,
we're going to see it get very ugly, like Chinese culture wore ugly.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I hope we have time to get there.
I mean, we'll try and get a little dabble into the Utah period because we have to put
this all into a continuum, right?
Yeah.
So anyway, there's so many tensions going on in Kirtland, and Joseph Smith is becoming
an enemy to a lot of people and a lot of powerful people.
And here we can discuss Grandison Newell.
Grandison Newell was a creditor.
Joe owed him about $1,500, and Joe didn't pay any of his bills.
He was really bad at it.
And that's one of the main reasons he created the United Firm, and he created the Kirtland
Safety Society, and he created all sorts of things to answer debts that he didn't want
to pay that he was responsible for, but nevertheless, he didn't want to pay.
He wanted his people to pay.
But once again, because Joseph Smith is a terrible businessman, he didn't incorporate
anything, he was personally liable for all of his debts.
He couldn't just dissolve his businesses and declare bankruptcy.
So Grandison Newell was one of these figures, and Grandison Newell was a Gentile who Joseph
Smith was not very pleased with, was wanting to collect on debts that Joseph Smith owed
about $1,500.
So Joseph Smith weaponized his brother of Gideon Society, which was a precursor to
the Danites.
And he...
And we could say it started as his bodyguard from this point when the other church was
riled against him, and threatened to kill him, not just riled against him.
They weren't just ticked off.
They were going to kill him.
They were going to kill him?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So he was able to channel that rage into people who were enemies of the church.
It was all their fault that bad things were happening.
They had nothing to do with Joseph Smith.
He was a persecuted prophet.
He could do no wrong.
Right?
So Grandison Newell became aware that there was a plot to assassinate him, and he basically
figured out the night that a couple of guys that were camped out from his house were about
to kill him, and he defended himself.
He stopped them from being able to successfully carry out their mission, either that or they
lost their nerve.
The historical record isn't exactly clear.
So Newell filed a legal complaint against Joseph Smith, which set into a cascade of
other legal complaints for many of the creditors against Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon personally
for all of the money.
Because if Joe wasn't paying this guy Grandison Newell, and he tries to assassinate him, and
Grandison Newell has to file a legal complaint alleging that there was an assassination attempt,
why would Joe stop at this one guy that he owes money to?
Suddenly all of his creditors are like, I thought he was just a little, I thought he
was just defaulting.
I didn't think my life was in danger.
So a number of complaints are filing against Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon, and that begins
this cascading effect where they just fall further and further and further and further
into debt.
And the leadership sees all of this.
Most of the Mormons themselves don't know what's really going on.
They see all of this as persecution of God's elect.
And we should just put a pin in that for a second, just to point out that we started
with a charming, lovable scamp who created a fake religion from his storytelling.
Now he's murdering his, or threatening, you know, putting together a ban to murder his
enemies.
Yeah.
I mean, look, we've all thought about, wouldn't it be amazing?
That's how far Joseph Smith is all the way back.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Wouldn't it be great if some of the credit companies we owe just burned down overnight?
Duh.
But I mean, this guy's taken to the next level.
I mean, he's willing to take people's personal lives over this.
So, ah, man, this is definitely heading down one of those snapped episodes where the marriage
was so more.
Yeah.
And they found him rolled up in a carpet in a dumpster with a corpse, you know, it's
like, whoa.
So, okay.
Yeah.
It's getting scary.
He's a murderer.
He's heading in the murdering direction.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this, a lot of these movements were perceived by the leadership, including the High Council
and including members of the High Council.
But most of it was not perceived by the membership of the Mormons themselves.
And remember at this time, the membership in Kirtland was like 6, 700 people.
We're talking in early 18, early to mid 1837 here.
It was, it was a pretty small sect when compared to the Missouri membership.
The Missouri membership at this time was around four to 5,000 people.
So the, the Missouri membership and remember the Missouri membership was basically its own
presidency, its own church that operated sort of in conjunction, but as like an independent
franchise of Joe's church that was headquartered in Kirtland.
But the Missouri church was run by David Whitmer, John Whitmer and Oliver Coutry.
Right.
These, these three guys, these, you know, two of the scribes of the Book of Mormon and
you know, the three witnesses and you know, these, these paramount figures who were at
the foundation of the church, these guys are running the Missouri stake.
I have a quick question for you, Bryce.
We mentioned last time earlier that the Kirtland area, the Mormons there were just barely
making it.
They are all living in shanties, everything they went, went to the temple.
How was the Missouri area at this time, the colony, if you will.
How was that into the church?
And did they get along?
Or is there tensions between the two?
They got along fairly well.
Well, it was one of those things that it depended on the day, it depended on what was going
on, it depended on how things were going.
Right.
So like the Missouri church had a problem with Fanny Alger affair, right?
Like Oliver Coutry was the one who sent the letter to his brother saying it's a dirty nasty
filthy affair.
And the Whitmers also believed that Joseph Smith was in transgression and that there
were problems with the Kirtland leadership.
But by and large, they still considered the Book of Mormon to be scripture.
They still considered the tenets of Mormonism to be true.
They still considered the three degrees of glory of heaven to be true in outer darkness.
And they still considered Joseph Smith's revelations by and large to be true and to
be from God.
But they obviously understood that there were secular problems going on too.
Right.
And most of his enemies at the time still thought he was a prophet, David Wimmer characterizes
it.
Good question.
Was the Missouri church as well off or were they just as put upon as they were, they were
all destitute.
There were very few wealthy Mormons.
The rest of them were very destitute.
And remember, most of that was a result of Joseph Smith giving a revelation to his saints
to move out to Missouri and settle there because they could just squat on.
Here's a title.
Here's a deed.
Right.
I lost you for sitting there.
They could just squat.
What?
Just squat on the land and put up a fence and a log cabin and then the government would
give them the deed to the land.
So the Mormons didn't move out to Missouri with much.
Right.
And it was basically a North Korea situation for them.
They were just scraping by just to survive and to build up the nice temple there.
Exactly.
And that's where the energy went.
So, yeah.
It's no wonder they didn't really know what was happening in the upper echelons of their
own leadership.
Yeah.
And it's a thousand miles away too.
Right.
They don't have email.
The feelings, the sentiments, what was going on in Kirtland, very little of it actually
filtered all the way back to Missouri.
And what was going on in Missouri as well, very little of the true events of what was
going on were filtering back accurately to the Kirtland leadership.
So it caused them to act rashly.
For example, when the Mormons were kicked out of Jackson County and Joe marched, tried
to march a thousand soldiers to Missouri and being 200 guys and part of them died of cholera
and then it was just a big, you know, fuster clock, right?
It caused the Kirtland leadership to act rashly and irrationally because they didn't
have accurate information either, which made it more important that the Missouri church
operate as an independent franchise and the Kirtland church to operate as an independent
franchise.
But as we'll see very soon, that came to be a very big problem for Joseph Smith because
with all the division going on in Kirtland and the leadership of the church becoming
aware of all of these problems, these legal problems and Joe being so much in debt and
him just being a terrible businessman and the Kirtland Safety Society failing and the Fannie
Alger incident.
Eventually, yeah, something had to give and including Martin Harris, you know, right?
Martin Harris was the businessman, the wealthy businessman, the first mark of Joseph Smith
who financed publishing the Book of Mormon and gave everything up to publish that thing.
And you know, he's the guy with the 116 pages, you know, dum, dum, dum, dum, dum.
That's Martin Harris.
He talked or there was a debate going on in the Kirtland temple in, I believe it was
June of 1837 and the question came to Martin Harris, how did you see the plates?
Because he's one of the three witnesses who hepted and felt and saw the engravings there
on and he signed his name to it.
How did you see the plates?
And this is so precious.
He said in that meeting, he saw them with his spiritual eyes.
I think the quote was, I didn't see them physically, you know, like I'm looking at that pencil
case, but I saw them as you would a city through a mountain, you know, with the eye of faith,
I saw them.
Yes.
So that's much, much closer.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
The veneer is falling for everyone.
What are they saying about this?
I mean, they got to be like, you got to be kidding me, right?
At that point, we had people, we had people literally go, I'm out of here.
I'm out.
Really?
People left, they knew that was BS.
Leaders of the church said, oh, we're done.
We're done.
I don't blame them.
And one of those leaders was Warren Parrish.
David, you want to talk about Warren Parrish?
Oh my gosh.
No, no, no, no, you keep going.
I'll chime in as I can.
But yeah, what happens in the temple next, when half the people are going, this is bullshit.
And half of them are going, no, it goes into profit.
It gets ugly inside the very temple itself.
Inside the temple that they don't really actually own because it's built on credit,
right?
And the bills are coming due.
They're long past due now.
And lawsuits are in the works to take the temple out of their hands and all the church
properties because there was also the three-story building behind the Kirtland Temple that was
a printing office.
And it was, you know, it was where the church was headquarters.
That was the offices of the church.
That's where they taught school.
That's where they performed ceremonies.
They did all sorts of stuff.
And I actually have a picture of the field where that three-story building used to be.
If I'm able to pull it up here, give me just one second.
Yeah, you showed it on the last episode, too.
Yeah, I showed it from the bell tower of the Kirtland Temple.
And it's preserved the actual lot, the actual plot of land where it used to sit is preserved
with this little plaque right here.
This is the printing office schoolhouse.
It was a three-story large building.
It wasn't as big as the temple itself, which here's, you know, here's a good broadside
of the temple.
Big-ass building, yep.
Yeah, it wasn't as big as the temple, but it was big.
It was a big three-story building.
And the ownership of the three-story building was also in dispute.
All of the church's assets were in dispute.
So Warren Parish is one of the people who heard Martin Harris say that he saw the plates
the way you see a city through a mountain and he's like, all right, this is a scam.
So what Warren Parish does is he essentially forms his own church and he declares that
Joseph Smith is in transgression.
He's in apostasy and functionally excommunicates Joseph Smith from this new break-off faction,
which catalyzes a hostile takeover in the Kirtland Temple.
Literally in the temple, they are brawling in the temple.
Yes.
The Parishites came in brandishing pistols and booing knives and a huge brawl broke out.
Among, I think it was close to a hundred men.
I think it was like 35 men or something were actually legally indicted from all of this.
But an actual literal fistfight broke out in the temple.
Some people got stabbed and cut up with their booing knives.
Some pistols went off.
Nobody actually got shot.
But there was a hostile takeover of the Kirtland Temple by the Parishites.
Yeah.
You would not know to see Mormons today, but back in the day, every single Mormon had
a booing knife on him.
Oh, yeah.
Totally.
Wippin' him out at the drop of a hat.
Yep.
And a lot of people carried around pistols too, right?
Sure.
Is it common for somebody to have a little single shot or a Derringer style or a pepper
box pistol one?
I don't want to camp here too much, but I have to say, this is crazy.
Okay.
Just say that this is crazy.
And one question I have is, is there more that you go into in your guys' book and your
podcast where you guys really delve into like what was said in details in some of these
areas?
I mean, generally speaking, the guy hears him say, yeah, I saw it like one looking through
a mountain with his eyes closed.
It almost seems like I saw it without seeing it.
Yeah.
I call BS on that.
So that's what causes this thing.
He's trying to break off and take over the temple and they want to own that temple now.
Yep.
And what happens?
Who wins?
Joseph Smith, he's a fallen prophet.
He's a fallen prophet.
And this is also happening at the same time that all these lawsuits are coming due.
And Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon lose every lawsuit.
It was close to a dozen different lawsuits of individual creditors they owed money to.
And the three-story printing office behind the Kirtland Temple, it is given over to the
creditors.
I forget the name of the specific creditor, but one of the people who Joe owed like $2,000
to was was legally handed the title to that three-story printing office and school building
and everything.
Headquarters of the church, the headquarters of the church itself, notable as well with
the Fannie Alder incident.
There's another detail that we need to introduce here.
The High Council wanted to hear her story, her side of what happened between her and
the prophet.
Quick recap.
What happened was he boinked her in the barn and his wife saw.
Yeah, Emma saw everything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And this caused a lot of problems because it's like, this is a pious prophet of God
and he's boinking the maid.
What?
What's going on here?
So the High Council actually had, yeah, go ahead.
And just quick notice, this was before polygamy became a thing.
Years later, they would retroactively say, oh, well, she was his first multiple wife.
I can predict that what's going to happen, David, and you're making a good point is he
keeps boinking people and it's like, look, man, obviously I'm doing this as a prophet
of God.
It must be true that all these chicks are mine.
So we got to make this thing of God, because he hasn't quite reached that point yet.
So at first it's just, you know, a Tammy Faye Baker, Jim Baker situation where it's, oh,
it's another evangelical leader in a sex scandal.
Only retroactively will it get cleaned up and critified.
Well, and yeah, only retroactive.
And that's the Apologist line today and in that it's nonsense, right?
It doesn't, yeah, whatever.
So the High Council actually locked her in the bell tower of the Kirtland Temple, awaiting
her testimony to bring the council and to bring men from the Missouri church in to sit
and chair on the High Council to hear her testimony against the prophet.
Now I can't imagine what this was like for her, right?
She's 16 years old.
She's the maid of the smiths living in the Smith home.
She's a beautiful unmarried girl of marriage age and suddenly the whole town is talking
about how she and Joseph Smith, you know, she seduced the prophet or whatever the case
is, right?
And it comes down to like, yeah.
And it's just a huge, it's just she became the victim of character assassination.
And part of this, a lot of the problem with this was Emma and her were very good friends.
Emma was basically a mother figure to Fanny because she was an orphan.
So that added an extra sting to all of this, of course, for Emma and for Fanny and for the
town because Fanny was, she was a good girl.
She was a friend.
Everybody loved her.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So they locked her in the tower of the temple awaiting this trial and Joseph Smith commanded
one of his boys to go break her out of the tower and carry her off in the night and took
her to live with her, her uncle in Indiana.
And some historians claim that this was part of Emma's doing that Emma didn't want her
to stand trial and her to her character to be assassinated by Joseph Smith because that's
all he could do was deny, deny, deny, right?
And then she would become the victim of this massive campaign.
So Emma orchestrated this thing to get her out of town so that she didn't have to suffer
the repercussions of what Joseph had done to her basically.
And obviously there's a lot of dispute.
It's all very speculative, but she was carried off out of town in the middle of the night.
And she doesn't really surface in the historical record after that.
We know she married a guy named Solomon Custer and that she had a kid that she thought was
Joseph's.
And we know decades later when asked about it, she would refuse to talk about it.
So there was none of this plural wife business, none of this, oh, we got secretly married.
Yeah.
Yeah.
None of that.
None of that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that, that was also going on at this time, right?
So add scandal on top of scandal, on top of scandal, on top of scandal, then there's
a fight in the Kirtland Temple and legal complaints are filed everywhere, every which way.
Joseph Smith is trying to travel around to locations around Kirtland to basically sell
the propagandized versions, sell his narrative of what's going on with his own history to
to create the, the divine calling of it.
Save the brand.
Save the brand.
Yeah.
Well, and this is when we begin to see people begin to reiterate his first vision story.
This is when it actually enters the public consciousness that there is the priesthood
that Peter, James and John appeared and gave them the Aaronic and Melchizedek priesthood,
that Joseph Smith was visited by an angel in 1820 in the Grove and that, that God and
Jesus personally appeared to him in a pillar of light.
This is when these stories begin to systematize and they become the propaganda that they are
given his truth and understood as truth by millions of Mormons today.
But it's in the context of all of this going on that these lies were fabricated.
Notable as well as their mass problem with the church was the spaulding problem.
The spaulding theory was gaining so much traction, right?
Eberhaus book had been out.
It was published at the very end of 1834.
Let's back up just this minute, Bryce.
Let's back up just this minute and tell you what we're talking about.
So in a nutshell, this book Mormonism Unveiled came out.
First, he declares that, oh, well, this book is just a ripoff of this book that was stolen
by either Sidney Rigdon or Oliver Cowdery, depending on which version of the theory you're
hearing from this particular printer, a guy named Samuel Spaulding, Samuel Spaulding?
Oh, Solomon.
Solomon Spaulding, a reverend, wrote this book that was just like the Book of Mormon,
was a romance of ancient people coming to America, ancient white people coming to America.
And according to him, this was all a ripoff of this other guy's book.
And we could spend a whole episode talking about that.
We probably will down the line.
But whether that's true or not, I mean, the fact of the matter is, the idea that ancient
peoples came to America was in the zeitgeist then.
I mean, one of Joseph's first thing was he talked about, oh, that gold Bible they found
in Canada, you know, there were these notions about lost manuscripts and recovered accounts
of ancient Romans or Phoenicians or Hebrews, you know, the lost tribes of Israel coming
to America and building all these mountains, because clearly the Indians could never have
built these Indian mountains.
You know, so anyway, so that was that was a theory that they were dealing with.
And actually the church up to some point is still dealing with that.
Yeah.
Well, I'm getting a reflected signal.
All right.
Now it's gone.
Cut that out, Derek.
Yeah, I would love to talk Spaulding, do an episode on Spaulding.
But regardless of whether or not the Spaulding theory is true, it was in the public consciousness
that it might be true that the whole Book of Mormon itself was just stolen from a dead
guy.
And that was causing a lot of problems as well, because Dr. Foulasses Hurlbut was preaching
around the country telling people about his findings, about his discoveries, about all
of his research and showing some people claimed showing a manuscript, an original draft of
manuscript found that read exactly like the Book of Mormon.
So it was a lot of people across the nation were learning that this whole, the Mormon
fanaticism was predicated on a book that was stolen.
It was plagiarized.
So that was causing a lot of problems and a lot of questions and Joe was trying to travel
around and send his apostles traveling around to tell his propagandized story.
And the story that every Mormon knows today was crafted.
It was created in this context, in this time when there was so much dissent, so much disagreement
going on in the church.
So eventually all of this catalyzes, all of this turns into just a massive ball of chaos
and Joe completely loses control of his Kirtland church.
And the three story building going into the hands of one of his creditors was the final
straw.
That was it.
And he realized he had to get out of town, or he was going to go to jail, or he was going
to be assassinated, or something worse might happen.
So he and Sidney Rigdon, they gather their things, they gather their families, and Joe
tells his quorum of apostles that we need to get out.
We got to get to Missouri.
But before he does that, he instructs his friend, Lyman R. Sherman, another one of these,
these silly figures, to burn down the printing office.
And he does.
Joseph Smith and Emma Smith, Sidney and Phoebe Rigdon, Brigham Young, I can't remember if
he was married at this time, Heaver Kimball, most of the quorum of apostles, they flee
Kirtland in the middle of the night in late 1837, while the printing office, three story
building that held all of the records of the church, that held all the paperwork, that
had all of the evidence of Joe's financial wrongdoings, it was on fire behind them.
They didn't have shredders, they had arson.
They had arson.
That fire almost took the Kirtland temple with it.
The Mormons were able to put out the fire before it took down the temple as well, because
that would have just been a tragedy, right?
The temple is so cool, and it stands to this day.
It's an amazing artifact to see and to consider that it was built in the 1830s.
When you tour it, when you see the glass, when you see everything that they've done to keep
that building from falling down, it's amazing.
It would have been a travesty to lose that building.
So they were able to put it out before the building caught.
But that three story building, it burned to the ground.
There was no saving it.
So Lyman R. Sherman burned it, and he himself also fled to Missouri.
I feel like this is a good part to stop, because we're right on the cusp of what's coming.
How are we doing on time there?
We've got 15 to 18 minutes left, guys.
I don't know if we should pause yet.
Look, I was going to ask you something.
This is important.
You brought me into the drama of this chick that he's boinking, and they run her off.
There are people coming from out of state to hear her testimony.
She's no longer here.
What are the murmurs going on like, dude, someone snuck her off because they knew he was going
to get caught.
And there are people already, he's guilty before proven innocent.
Is there a lot of talk going on and they're going, yeah, there's something fishy here.
We know for a fact she was here the other day.
Why would she run out of town?
Or do they play the story that she didn't want to face it because she was guilty?
And how does this work?
Is there a split in the sect going on here right now?
I imagine there was a whole spectrum of talk about what really happened and what to do
about it.
Well, this is also the exact time when Oliver Cowdery wrote that letter to his brother Warren
in January 1838 and said that it was a dirty, nasty, filthy affair.
This is the exact time when he learned that she had been taken off in the middle of the
night and taken away from Kirtland so that the High Council couldn't hear her testimony.
That's when he wrote that letter to his brother.
So it's clear the highest ranks of church leadership clearly understood what happened.
They knew Joseph Smith more than the rest of the Mormons did.
But the thing is, is like these disagreements, a lot of these arguments and stuff, it didn't
filter down to the average Mormons very much.
Most of it was only going on among the leadership, which insulated the Mormons and caused them
to follow the prophet wherever he may go.
Super quick question.
So what happened to the parasites after the rumble in the temple?
Right.
They remained in Kirtland and they retained control of the temple.
And Martin Harris also joined their ranks for a little while.
And there continued to operate a sect of the church in Kirtland.
During the Nauvoo era, Joseph Smith sent numerous missionaries to Kirtland, including
Brigham Young himself, to try and bring them back into compliance with his Nauvoo church
and to try and regain control of the Kirtland temple.
And every time a missionary would go out there, Brigham Young, even in his own journal, wrote
that the Kirtland church is in total apostasy.
They couldn't regain control because they had been so burned by the prophets.
They were so mad.
OK, there's so many questions I have here right now.
This is this is great, though.
I'm really getting a great history lesson like the real deal.
What was going on?
Something to to ask in light of what's going on, these three witnesses
that are pro Joseph Smith are now not pro Joseph Smith.
I mean, Martin Harris is now part of the team that was now against them.
How can this church even thrive if it's all Joseph centric, if you will?
How? How?
I to answer that, I am going to harken back to I think the first interview
I ever did on my podcast of somebody who wasn't my friend.
And that was with one inimitable David Fitzgerald.
I've heard he said something.
He said something to me on that broadcast that has stuck with me ever since.
He said persecution is like fertilizer.
You need just a little bit of it, the right amount,
and it will make the religion flourish too much of it.
It'll starve out the sect.
Not enough of it.
They won't have a common enemy.
And that's what this is.
This was the perfect dosage of persecution.
Joseph Smith was just charismatic enough to preach his story,
to preach his version of the story enough to cause all of those other people
to be viewed as the enemies of the church, the enemies of the gospel of God.
And that he is the only one true leader of the church.
And of course, the other leadership, the leadership in Missouri,
they knew what went on.
They were not a pick.
That's the question I have.
And maybe we're getting lost into weeds.
But yeah, because this won't be the last time there's a splinter in the church.
Well, let me ask you this, because before we get to any other splinters
and before we end this episode, because we have a three-story church
with all his dirty, dark secrets being burned with it, OK,
at least some of them, you can't hide all of them.
They can't all be buried.
There's just too much going on.
You know, there's someone in another state somewhere he boinked or something happened.
I have to ask if this religion is Joseph Smith centric,
what theological differences did these daynights or these other groups begin
to adopt in order to replace a, well, we know he's a frickin' fraud,
but we still got to have him as our central figure.
I mean, Saul was a king of Israel, but he kind of went apostate or Solomon was a king.
Is this like he was good at one point?
We saw him as honorable, but he apostatized and God stopped using him.
And now he uses us type thing or was there is very much in the branch in Solomon
and David that's like, oh, he's God anointed.
And yet he's has these human failings, you know, yes.
But he's still a prophet.
He's still God's anointed.
But he's, you know, he's weak, you know, and the justifications
and the rationalizations, you know, it's exactly the same thing we see today.
You know, there's still people who, you know, Jimmy Swagger.
I mean, you name, you know, Tammy Faye Baker, any evangelical figure out there.
They still have a church.
They still have people following them.
And it's the same kind of double down.
It's exactly like the apocalyptic churches who say, into the world is tomorrow.
Next day, well, you know, it was a spiritual and whatever.
Yeah. Yeah.
A war in heaven.
Fight a dime for every one of those.
Yeah. OK.
Well, and there is something worth teasing out of this, right?
Because there's there's a public perception that the skeptical mind sees, right?
And and papers across the nation were talking about the scandals of the
profit of the gold Bible speculation of the religious fanaticism.
That is Mormonism, the modern Mohammed, you know, this, this, this Christian
Mohammedism and talking about how it's, you know, among various political parties
and other religious sects and religious newspapers, calling it Satanic and
adversarial and familiar, like a familiar spirit.
Like there was the public perception that these are a bunch of wackos
and that Joseph Smith is just a false prophet.
The followers don't that that information doesn't penetrate their mind
or as religion wouldn't exist, right?
Because no religion is free of scandal and the scandals just serve
to cull the weak in faith and make sure only the most stalwart,
the only the most zealous remain by the Prophet's side.
Yeah, exactly.
And we're going to see this again and again and again.
They're they're hammering and tempering and they'll lose some.
They won't all make it.
But the ones who stayed, the one who sticks to the end, they double down
and say, well, we're in too deep.
We can't get out, you know, we're exactly they find a way.
They find a way.
So let me ask you about the guy who saw it through a mountain, so to speak.
The Golden Mice.
Martin Harris.
Martin Harris.
Num, num, num, num, num, num.
Do you think he had doubts?
I mean, do you not think he went, you know, I'm really dumb.
I can't believe I did this.
I can't believe I bought this.
Well, you'd mentioned this earlier at one point.
He said to his wife, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But if we go with this, I stand to make some money out of it.
So there definitely was some point where he was like, yeah, OK,
we're just going to run with it.
But isn't he the same guy who was convinced by a feather?
I mean, how ridiculous?
Like if I brought you to court or my one of my family members is trying
to save me a headache, taking me to court.
And he's like, but there was a feather.
He said there would be a feather.
Like you couldn't drop a feather in the hole and say, dude, look what I just found.
And it's like, wow.
Anyway, different guy.
But you're not a different guy.
Not wrong. It's a different guy.
Yeah. Yeah, that was just I stole.
But like Joe had done a couple of cons on Martin Harris to make him believe, right?
Like he found the toothpick that Martin Harris dropped.
Like there were a couple of cons, a couple of times that that Martin Harris tried
to test Joe and Joe aced the test in Martin Harris's mind.
The there were a couple of points that Martin Harris came to a crossroads, too, right?
Like so Joe came to a crossroads a couple of times where he chose the path of of lie for money.
And Martin Harris, I think, had a couple of those crossroads points.
One of them was the meeting with Charles Anton, right?
Martin Harris took a piece of paper that had Book of Mormon characters
Reformed Egyptian written on it from Joseph Smith to this this this scholar,
this Bible scholar, no respected, total expert.
Yeah. Yes.
An Egyptologist, so to speak.
And the guy said, you're being preyed upon by ropes.
And Martin, that was a crossroads point.
Martin Harris could have said, oh, thanks, this is a mistake.
I'm going to walk away from this whole thing.
I'm going to walk away from all of the money and all the time and all the effort
and all of the the years of lost crops that I've invested into this.
This is a this is a sunk cost.
I need to walk away.
That was crossroads and he chose not to you.
You had a few of those points and be one of the witnesses to this divine miracle.
Let me let me ask you this.
I recorded with Dr.
Robert M. Price recently.
He wrote in the free inquiry on this topic of Joseph Smith.
He wrote this long thing and he read the whole thing.
It took like took a while.
It took like 45 minutes for him to read it.
But he did it all on video and he doesn't believe he was just a con artist.
Like there was real there's some real delusional stuff that comes with faith
and such that he really is buying into.
But do you think there was ever a moment up to this point without getting
any anything further?
I want to keep people teased.
I want to keep I want to pregame them for the party that's coming.
You know, is there a moment you think someone sat and had a talk with
Joseph and said, listen, we need to really talk like let's sit down and talk about this.
Or they all completely brainwashed to a point where there's never been a sit down
and go, look, we know this is bullshit.
OK, we're not against it.
We're going to use this.
We'll tell you later. OK, OK.
OK, you hear that.
Do you hear that?
You better watch this series, man.
You don't want to miss it.
So get ready.
And I'll also let let's add, you know, a little more depth to this
cliff that we're going to hang off of to end this episode.
Right. The leadership in Missouri, where Joseph Smith is fleeing,
they are aware of what happened.
They know kind of the high level of what's going on.
Oliver Cowdery had sent that letter to his brother saying this is all a farce
that this is it was a dirty nasty filthy affair.
And, you know, and most of the leadership were aware or thought
or were entertaining the thought that Joseph Smith was in a policy.
He was in transgression.
He was a fallen prophet, right?
Later on in David Whitmer's life, he wrote basically a memoir.
He titled it An Address to All Believers in Christ.
And it was a two part pamphlet, basically 80 something pages,
an address to all believers in Christ and an address to all believers in the Book of Mormon.
And he traces the point when he thinks that Joseph Smith fell
and became a transgressed prophet.
And that is when Joe changed the name of the church from Church of Christ
to Church of the Latter Day Saints.
That happened in 1834 before Joe's first military expedition, Zions Camp.
What is happening right now is four years after that.
And David Whitmer is still running the Missouri Church.
Joseph Smith needs to rest control of the Missouri
Church from the leadership there because they believe he's in transgression.
But he wants to retain control of the Missouri Church
that is larger than his Kirtland Church that he just abandoned.
So that creates a vicious, vicious power struggle that ends in death threats.
He either gets the Missouri Church and has no church at all,
because he's already no longer has.
He doesn't have Kirtland anymore.
So now he has no Kirtland.
He has to get this church or he is the apostate
who has no power, no control, no nothing.
And exactly, he puts all his chips on Missouri.
And it's even worse than that, Eric,
because this is all happening within the church,
within the confines of this interfactional war.
Outside the church, the Missourians are looking at these people
who are treating it like this is the promised land
and you're living on our promised land and they do not like what they see.
And it gets ugly or still right.
So much weight, there's so much drama going on
and how this thing survives is beyond my understanding at this point.
And I think you guys are on the same journey that I'm on.
So we're getting close, guys, we're we're actually four or five minutes early.
And usually we end at around 60 minutes.
But I don't want us to waste any more breath.
We need to get into the next episode immediately
and go ahead and hear what is about to happen because it doesn't.
So excited. I'm so excited.
I am too.
Because next episode, this means war.
Yes. And what's so much fun about next episode
is all of the stuff that Joe prototyped in New York and Courland.
He takes with him.
He learns from it and he evolves in Missouri.
And after what happens in Missouri happens after the Missouri Mormon War,
that will hopefully get through all of next episode.
What he learns from that he takes into Nauvoo,
where that's when he runs for president and is assassinated as a, you know, a candidate.
Right. Like it's like it is monumentally insane
to see the progression of events, to see the evolution of these events
and to see how these things kind of patterns repeated
and were adjusted for and adapted and changed.
And he eventually becomes truly the tyrant that he always sought to be.
From lovable rogue to psychopath, megalomaniacal psychopath.
It's all coming up. Stay tuned.
That's right.
All right, ladies and gentlemen, go down.
You've got David Fitzgerald, the complete heretics guide
to Western religion and the Mormons and Bryce Blankenagle,
host of the Naked Mormon podcast, Naked Mormonism podcast, correct?
Naked Mormon podcast. Yes.
So with that, I'm going to go ahead and let's end this show.
You have mythvisionpodcast.com now.
I have a website now for us here and you guys can check it out.
Dude, this series is going to be around for years.
So you can always come back to it.
This is one of the most exciting Mormon series I've ever seen.
Apart from South Park's funny episode,
you guys really get to get into the real details here that this is serious.
I mean, as much as we laugh and it's a joke, it shows you what cults and religion
and this kind of mentality and dogmatism, we really need to get past this.
This is my opinion.
It affects everything and we need to try and stamp it out
if you will get rid of this so that we can start to progressively think
as humans and not allow this kind of thing to permeate politically
and in many other areas in our worldviews, if you will.
And so with that being said, thank you guys for joining me.
Go ahead and click the next video when it comes out.
And don't forget we are myth vision.
