Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as paypal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
We are MythVision, your host Derek Lambert.
Today I'm going to make this intro short, sweet, and simple because we've got too much
fun stuff to get into on The Mormon Church, Joseph Smith, crazy stuff is about to come.
I mean, I'm telling you guys.
So with that being said, I have David Fitzgerald, author of The Complete Heretics Guide to Western
Religion in the Mormons.
Go down in the description, get his books, check out his material.
And I have Bryce Blankenegle, and he is the host of Naked Mormonism Podcast.
Go down in the description guys, join these guys, help these guys do everything you can.
I don't know, send them seven golden plates, you know, something, do something.
And so last episode, we started getting into some meaty, juicy, funny stuff.
We really, like, if you will, traveled through the, was the South Park episode, if you will,
where the wife and the gentleman are convinced, the gentleman's convinced these are golden
plates, these are legit.
And the wife's like, oh really, well, reproduce them then and well, we can't do that.
We can't, you know.
So we're going to get into some more fun stuff.
I think it sounds like before we even hit the record button on this, that you guys,
there's so much more fun stuff to come that we've like barely even scratched the surface.
So with that being said, Bryce, as usual, take us off and David, jump in there, man.
If you have something you need to say, just say it.
Like Bryce said, he's a windbag, and I'm just here.
I'm just here.
No, no.
He's a wellspring of information that I just hate to, you're going to have to punch your
way into the conversation though.
Some of the things are so brilliant, they must be held up.
And that's, yes, and I will be happy to do that.
What are we doing, Bryce?
Dude, you've earned your fourth degree black belt by now.
I'm going to give you a fourth degree black belt.
All right.
Well, let's see where we are by the end of this series.
So obviously we're a little ambitious.
As we were going through back and forth in the chat, we're like, we can get through Kirtland
today.
No.
Are you kidding me?
We didn't even get the Book of Mormon published on the last episode of the series here.
So yeah, I mean, we're still in the early New York era of the church.
The church hasn't even started, right?
We are in Mormon church and we're at level three, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because there's so much and like David, you know this, we are just hitting the high points
of the mountains.
We're not getting lost in the valleys much at all in all of this.
This is, we're just trying to hit as many of the highlights as we possibly can because
there's so, so much.
And the field of Mormon history, academia is so rich.
And there's multiple journals that publish in it with four to six publications per year.
And it's a very dense field.
So we're just trying to get everybody through this New York era and into the Kirtland era,
kind of hitting the highlights as we go.
And then eventually we're going to get to Missouri and Nauvoo where shit gets really
crazy.
Nice.
And Joe is just an absolute tyrant and running for president and colluding with Russia and
all sorts of crazy stuff.
I can't wait for that.
That's my favorite era of Mormon history.
And this is why guys, you got to go down in the description.
If you want to get more of an exhaustive understanding, you want to check out Naked
Mormonism podcast.
You want to read David Fitzgerald's book because you're going to get more of the details
that you're not going to find just by this episode.
But we are going to highlight the funnies.
We are going to point out the absurdities.
We're going to point out some stuff that isn't taught.
And that's what I'm not, I'm just feeling like I'm part of the group.
You know, come on.
Let me, let me feel like I'm part of the group.
I'm going to be in awe and just sitting here like, what are you selling me?
I'm buying it.
So, you know, pretty much that's it.
Speaking of what are you selling me?
I'm buying it.
When we last left, uh, Joseph Smith had just met a fellow named Martin Harris and, uh,
had convinced him quite handily that he was the, a true prophet and had a golden Bible
and was getting ready to bestow it upon the world.
But first they had to translate it.
Yes.
And Martin Harris was cut out of the process because he was asking too many questions in
that, that wife of his Lucy was trying to test Joe's prophetic abilities.
You don't test God.
You don't test God to the test.
No.
No, no, you can't put God in a test tube.
So Joe needed a new scribe and here we get to introduce a fascinating figure of Mormon
history.
This is all of our Cowdery.
Now all of our Cowdery is a cousin of Joseph Smith, I believe a third cousin once removed.
And we do have some evidence that these two were friends before the book of Mormon was
ever, you know, conceived of that their fathers were in the same Zionist cult that was known
as the wood scrape.
There was this wood group led by this guy named Nathaniel Wood that were convinced that
1800 was the second coming.
And they had to have the, I believe it was the Vermont militia called out, uh, to put
down their like rebellion and well, these tendencies obviously made their way into Joseph
Smith's mind.
Well, Oliver Cowdery's dad and Joseph Smith's dad were in this same cult and those beliefs,
those tendencies, the, the magic practices that they were doing in that cult made their
way were transmitted to the sons, Joseph and to Oliver.
So these two cool cats get together in harmony and Oliver becomes Joseph Smith's scribe.
And in many ways, his lackey Oliver Cowdery just kind of became Joe's gopher, uh, as well
as his whipping boy and, and so many other things, uh, as well as a challenger to the
throne.
And Joe had to put down multiple mutinies that were orchestrated or were that somehow
Oliver Cowdery played a role in and we'll discuss a couple of those as we kind of get
into it.
But this is Oliver Cowdery, handsome, dashing lad, isn't he?
Kind of like a young, young Lincoln, isn't he?
A little bit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yep.
And he was a true gopher as well.
So when he met Joseph or when they met, according to the official story was in 1829, Oliver
Cowdery was a traveling teacher and teachers at this time were basically people who walked
around with a satchel full of books and they would stay with families and they would tutor
the kids or tutor the parents.
So Oliver Cowdery was a, a tutor and he would go around and sell books that he would carry
around and teach from.
So book salesman, teacher, whatever the case is, whatever you want to call them, or possibly
a grifter.
So Oliver Cowdery comes along and comes and hangs out with Joseph Smith in harmony for
a little while and they start writing the book of Mormon.
And they start, so, you know, David, you were talking about this earlier, the 116 pages
are supposedly the book of Lehigh.
And at the book of Lehigh, now that it was written as 116 pages and Lucy stole it and
said, hey, he can reproduce it if it's translation.
Then Joseph decided to write it from Nephi's perspective, Lehigh's son.
Well, wait a minute.
So it's the same story.
Wait a minute.
He didn't decide that.
The Lord commanded him, says, oh no, we can't read, we can't just retranslate the book of
Nephi.
Nephi.
I'm sorry.
Lehigh, it's good.
I make those mistakes too often.
Because it could already be in the devil's hand by now and thus already corrupted.
So no book of Nephi.
No book.
Yeah.
But fortunately, God had foreseen all this pesky business and had a backup plan already
ready to go built into the gold plates.
They took it up the gold plates from the book of Nephi.
That's right.
That's right.
I get my Lehigh as a Nephi is mixed up if I go too deep.
Yes.
But no, no, you got to write though.
So as it happened, when Oliver Cowdery came along and started helping Joseph Smith write,
they started after that portion of the plates.
So what was the book of Lehigh that was now reproduced as the first and second book of
Nephi, that was the latest written stuff by Oliver and Joseph.
They started at the book of Messiah and they wrote from Messiah all the way to the end
of the book of Mormon.
And then they went back at the end of the translation process and wrote up to Messiah.
It occurs to me, we could probably spend a whole episode just traipsing through the book
of Mormon itself and doing the fan fiction of the King James version that it is.
That would be at least a episode, at least a man, just a thought, just put a thought.
Or not because it doesn't matter because the book of Mormon is so very clearly plagiarized
so clearly.
So many elements are taken from the Bible and from Bible commentaries of the time and
from many different sources, including this guy, Oliver Cowdery's pastor, Ethan Smith,
wrote a book called View of the Hebrews.
And there are some elements in the View of the Hebrews that are very clearly, at least
the concepts are plagiarized in the book of Mormon.
So they get together, they smash their brains together and they bring forth this book of
Mormon.
Oliver Cowdery recognized that Isaac Hale was making life really hard for Joe and Emma.
And Joe and Emma were unable to afford anything because Joe wouldn't work.
He refused to work.
He was really bad at working, right?
So they were starving and, you know, Isaac would give them a little bit of food here
and there, but they didn't have any income.
So basically, they just kind of lived off of loans from Martin Harris and translated
off of that money and eventually they ran out of money.
So Oliver Cowdery said, hey Joe, I got some friends in Fayette and Fayette, New York is
about 30, 40 miles away from Manchester, Palmyra area where Joseph, you know, where the Smith
family lived.
And Joe was like, hey, cool, phone them up, let's go hang out there.
So they ended up going out to the Wittmers.
And here we have John Wittmer and David Wittmer.
And these two are pretty important figures in the timeline of Mormon history.
But here's a picture of David Wittmer.
And he was, he served to be very briefly one of the scribes for Joseph Smith and, you know,
he was, there were a number of Wittmers who were all super-duper into this whole Book
of Mormon story thing.
They were also seers.
They used divining rods and seer stones and they were steeped in these esoteric practices.
They were first-generation German immigrants as well.
So they were definitely into more of the esoteric traditions that in many places, in many ways,
started in Germany and in France and in the Western cultures of the occultism that were
bred in Europe and made their way to America.
A lot of that came from Germany.
So we have David Wittmer there.
And David Wittmer is super important in all of this timeline.
Let me find John Wittmer because he is actually my favorite Wittmer for what that's worth.
Derek, who's your favorite Wittmer?
Nah, we'll get into that later.
So this is John Wittmer.
This is David's younger brother, John Wittmer.
And John Wittmer was one of the primary scribes for the Book of Mormon.
He was also commissioned as the first official historian for the church.
And we're really lucky that Joe gave the revelation that John Wittmer is to be the first official
historian because without his work, without the notes that he took of events that he witnessed,
I witnessed, we wouldn't have quite a lot of the stories from early Mormon history that
we do have today.
Because this guy right here, John Wittmer, was so integral in capturing those stories
and capturing those events through his own lens.
I just want to put a pin in that for just a moment.
These guys are better known to us, or as I should say contemporary Mormons, as the three
witnesses.
Correct.
Yeah.
And we say that.
Yeah.
Right.
So that introduces us to some of the witnesses, right?
So we have the three witnesses.
The three witnesses are Martin Harris, David Wittmer, and Oliver Cowdery.
Now we have now been introduced to all three of those, right?
Martin Harris is the old businessman who talked with Jesus in the form of a deer and was the
first scribe.
Yep.
Yep.
And then we have David Wittmer, who was one of the first elders who was basically took
care of Joseph and Emma while Joseph was writing the Book of Mormon.
And then we have John Wittmer, who was a scribe of the Book of Mormon, who was one of the eight
witnesses, not three, but the eight witnesses.
So we have our witnesses introduced here, and then Oliver Cowdery is scribe throughout
most of this process as well.
And just a brief word on, what does that mean, the three witnesses?
These are the, this is the first group of witnesses that Joseph Smith provided to say,
hey, it's not bullshit.
These guys, that's good.
Yeah.
And you find it in every Book of Mormon.
You open up every Book of Mormon today from the original 1830 production in every edition
of the Book of Mormon.
It has the witness statements in it.
And it talks about.
Joseph Smith actually wrote, pre-wrote for them and they just signed off.
It did.
Yeah.
And they, well, and they signed it, we think, but their names were attached to it and none
of them ever actually retracted the statement, but we don't have the original document that
they all signed with there in their own handwriting.
All we have is Hiram Smith's writing of all of their names on the manuscript that was
used by the printer to actually write or to print the Book of Mormon.
So these guys, they're all part of the witnesses.
And I call these guys, on my podcast, I called them the swindler syndicate because I think
that basically all of them were either in on the con or, or at some point they realized
that they were in on a con because every single one of those guys, their, their public persona
and their livelihood depended on that story being understood as true.
And through their entire lives, right?
Not just in Joseph Smith's era, but after Joseph's death, most of these guys all went
off and started versions of their own church or they were apostles in the Salt Lake City
church or whatever the case may be.
Yeah.
The history of the witnesses is very up and down themselves.
It's very fascinating to see the conflicts going on with the church politics with these
guys.
Right.
And, and it's also notable that Martin Harris, I don't think Martin Harris, it's kind of
tough to put, to pin down Martin Harris because he obviously was a very credulous guy.
I tend to believe his wife when she says, when she tells us the story that she was arguing
with Martin Harris and Martin Harris just said, if you leave me alone, I'll make money
of it.
Talking about the Book of Mormon, I tend to believe her statement, but she was also
a caustic opponent of the early church and she, she hated Joseph Smith.
And, and, you know, there's, there's some problems.
There's some problems with her account, but there's also like Martin Harris, his entire
livelihood was attached to the Book of Mormon after Joseph sucked him dry.
So was he actually in on it when he signed the statement or was he just the mark that
all of the other guys were trying to convince to sign the statement?
It's, it's really hard to pin down where Martin Harris really is on all this.
And we even see that today.
It's like people who get so into religion and then they realize, oh, I'm in too deep.
I can't just extricate myself.
You know, they have to see it all the way through.
And they die with a lie, right?
A lot of people die with that lie, knowing that they've lied their entire life and never
even give a deathbed confession of it.
Right.
It's just, it's just one of those things.
It's just some cost fallacy that we all fall prey to at some point in our lives.
And we saw it as recently as, uh, was it 2013 or 2011 when Harold Camping predicted
the end of the world and the end of the world date came and went and all of his
followers who had given up their life savings dam to the tune of 60 million
dollars, most of them just doubled down and said, Oh, okay.
I guess it was just a spiritual apocalypse after all.
It kind of sounds like William Miller and the Millerites that became the
Adventists, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, uh, in all of this, uh, let me show a picture of this cause this is the home
that has been recreated.
This is the Whitmer home.
And it's basically, uh, archaeologists, uh, unearthed to what they found was the
foundation of the home.
And then they recreated what they, what, or what the church believes as a basically
a period correct version of a log home that they would have lived in.
And in the upper story of this, the vaulted ceiling with the attic, that's
where the actual translation and the authoring of the Book of Mormon took place.
So all over the country, John Whitmer, Emma Smith served as scribe for a while.
Uh, all of these people are working, uh, and, uh, you know, hearing the story
of the Book of Mormon from Joseph Smith and they're writing it down as he goes.
And that becomes the original manuscript of the Book of Mormon and the original
manuscript of the Book of Mormon was taken around by Joseph Smith and Martin
Harris, uh, to shop around for who would publish this.
So Martin Harris was cut out of the translation, but Joe went back on
hands and knees begging Martin Harris to pay to publish the Book of Mormon.
Uh, Martin Harris didn't want to.
Surprise, surprise.
Yeah.
Uh, cause it was really expensive.
Um, they wanted 5,000 copies of the first edition Book of Mormon, which was $3,000.
Now $3,000 is an insane amount of money.
I mean, it's, it's about 50 grand today.
Actually, in the book, it says it looks about 73,000, 73.
Okay.
Yeah.
So it's a lot of money.
Uh, and, and Martin Harris didn't have that cash on hand.
He had a mortgage as farm for it.
Right.
Uh, so Martin Harris was brought back in to, to publish the Book of
Mormon, to pay for publishing the Book of Mormon.
They went around, shopped it at a few different publishers and they found a
good price in Rochester.
Problem is Rochester is about 35 miles from, uh, Palmyra and Manchester, uh,
where they wanted to publish the Book of Mormon from.
And that space created too much of a barrier.
So they decided to go with the local Palmyra printer, which is the E.B.
Grandin printer.
Um, they had to pay a premium to, to publish it through this place because it
was a much smaller operation.
They didn't have the ability to scale up the operation.
So not only did it cost more, it took longer than if they would have gone
with a larger publisher in Rochester.
Um, and it was, it was just not done as economically.
So yeah, go ahead.
Again, stop me if I'm getting ahead of you, but can I read you the revelations
that it took to get Martin Harris to pony up the money?
I was, I was hoping you had, would have that.
Yes, please, please, please.
Let's see.
So when we last left our hero, he was going to have to mortgage his farm.
Uh, he got a revelation to send Albert Caldry and Hiram Page close friend
Toronto, uh, where they'd find a man to buy the copyright, uh, with more than
enough money to ensure publication, but they didn't.
It was the first of Joseph revelations that flat out failed.
Fortunately, the next one didn't.
It was a fire and broomstone command directly from God almighty to Martin
Harris, exhorting him to pay the printer's bills.
Here's some highlights from that.
I command you to repent, repent lest I smite you by the rod of my mouth and by
my wrath and by my anger and your sufferings be sore.
I command thee that thou shalt not covet thine own property, but
covet thy own property.
His own property.
Oh, you're so selfish with your own property, but impart it freely to the
printing of the Book of Mormon and misery shalt thou receive.
If thou will slight these councils, yay, even the destruction of
thyself and property, pay the printer's debt, release thyself from bondage.
And so that's what it took for the incredibly specific word of God to
Martin Harris to, to, to, to point out that, I mean, look, TV preachers
don't go that far.
I mean, right?
That, I mean, they might say you won't get blessed, but this guy's
getting damnation threatened on him.
I mean, this is crazy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You don't mess with Jehovah when he wants you to publish a book.
Yeah.
Well, and David, you just kind of slid over something.
I really want to talk about to sending the boys to Toronto.
It was actually a small town outside of Toronto, Kingston.
What was that about?
You tell me, you tell me, Bryce.
Joe apparently got word from somebody that you could sell a
copyright in Canada for a big chunk of change.
And while they were going through the process of shopping these various
printers to publish the Book of Mormon and to get Martin Harris to finance this,
Joe sent two missionaries to Canada to try and sell the copyright of the Book
of Mormon.
He's trying to sell the copyright to the word of God.
Is there any better example of Joe's true intentions than that story alone?
I can't find it.
I can't think of one.
That's it.
That's it right there.
And you know, it's beautiful about that particular edition of the Book of
Mormon is that we still have copies of it with all the grammatical errors and
the spelling errors that between the two of them, they couldn't quite weed out.
Well, let's, let's talk about that too, right?
Cause the, the, the Book of Mormon itself that was published by the
grand and printing press in 1830, it was a big job that was taken up, right?
So they signed the contract, I believe in August of 1829.
And it was, they didn't finish publishing it until March of 1830.
That's a big project.
And, you know, for a printer, you take on a project this big of 5,000 copies of
something that's going to pay your bills for, you know, your operating costs for,
for the rest of the year.
So they mortgage Martin Harris's farm.
The, the guys who tried to sell the copyright, it failed.
They couldn't find anybody to buy it.
Weird.
That's a shock.
So they decided to go through with printing the, the Book of Mormon at
the E.B.
Grand and printing press.
Now the guy that was responsible for the, the printer, he was the
actual type setter himself, his name, John Gilbert.
John Gilbert, uh, when he got the copy of the original manuscript, he said,
I can't use this.
This is too rough of a draft.
So Oliver Cowdery was tasked with taking the original manuscript and
creating the printer's manuscript for the Book of Mormon.
And the way that he did this is Oliver Cowdery essentially worked with Joe's
older brother, Hiram Smith, and they would write, they would transcribe from
the original manuscript to the printer's manuscript, what they expected John
Gilbert to get through that day.
And Hiram Smith would take that portion of the printer's manuscript with him
in the morning to the printing press and drop it off there.
And he would stay there all day while Gilbert was printing this.
And then when the work was over for the night, he would take that copy of the
printer's manuscript back in his frock and he would go home.
So every day John Gilbert was only allowed to see what he was printing that
very day.
The problem is Oliver Cowdery had never published a book before and he
didn't know how this worked.
When you're taking an original manuscript, a rough draft and you're making
a printer's manuscript, that's when you make your grammatical changes.
That's when you make your spelling corrections.
That's when you make, you know, you tidy it up, you get it ready for the printer.
So the printer just reads what's on the paper, he sets the type and then he prints it.
It's not how it works because the printer's, the manuscript that they made,
the printer's manuscript that they made was almost an exact copy of the
original manuscript and the original manuscript didn't have any punctuation.
It was just words.
It was just chapter, just book chapter and words.
These pages and pages and pages are just words with no periods, no capitalizations,
no proper noun capitalizations, nothing, just words, no paragraph breaks, no
commas, no periods, no nothing.
And as a writer myself, I can tell you getting the stage of a manuscript to a
ready to print manuscript is a huge undertaking.
Yeah, it's massive.
Yeah.
And that's, this is a tight setting.
You know, I was like, that doesn't enter into it for us.
These guys had to take every single letter, every single comma and put it, you know,
little thing and set it in the little framework box.
I mean, it was amazingly, ridiculously painstaking.
Let me ask you guys something here and I may be jumping ahead.
Did they print 5,000 copies of unpunctuated Mormon book here?
No.
John Gilbert did all of the punctuation, which means that a guy who wasn't working
by divine inspiration from God is responsible for all of basically the context
of the Book of Mormon, right?
Like he, they had the chapter breaks in it, but that's it.
All of the context for all of the sentence breaks, like where we see the punctuation
in the Book of Mormon, like you move a comma, you can completely change the
meaning of one sentence.
True.
All of that punctuation, all of the capitalization, all of that.
That's all John Gilbert, if he was responsible for all of it.
These editions still exist.
We can see that online.
You can see page by page of all this.
Yeah.
And what's incredible too, is because of this convoluted printing process, versions
are the 1830 edition, the original first edition of the Book of Mormon.
There are variations even within those texts because Gilbert would get through
printing, you know, three, four, 500 copies and notice that there was, you know, a
misprint or notice that there was something wrong with his, the manuscript
that he was given, and he would go back and change it on the, on the typescript
and then he would print the rest of the copies.
Right.
So it just means that this whole process was a complete and utter mess.
And eventually John Gilbert told, uh, Hiram Smith, Hey, if you give me what
I'm going to be printing tomorrow, the night before, I'll be able to take it
home at night and punctuate it and get it ready for me to start printing early
the next day.
And I won't spend so much time wasted on punctuating all of this.
Hiram eventually agreed.
And he began bringing larger portions of the printer's manuscript to Gilbert.
And Gilbert ended up leaving portions of it at the printing store.
And here enters Obadiah Dogberry, Esquire, Esquire.
Oh my God, I'm so happy.
I love this story so much.
He was a David, David introduces who the hell is Obadiah Dogberry?
What is this Obadiah Dogberry?
Well, there was a, um, newspaper at the time called The Reflector.
Yeah.
And, uh, it ran a, I can't remember if it was a series or if it was a single one
shot of what, uh, was called The Book of Pukieye, which turns out to have been
the world's first parody of the Book of Mormon.
Yeah.
But there's, there's more to the story because originally, uh, so Abner Cole was
the guy who ran the Palmyra Reflector and it was printed out of the same shop as
the E.B.
Grant and printing press, right?
He used just on off hours.
He would come in after the printer was done using the shop for the day.
He would come in at night and print his own periodical called The Palmyra Reflector.
So, uh, Abner Cole found the portions of the Book of Mormon and he started
printing the first chapters of the Book of Mormon just to give people an idea or
a sense of what's coming because everybody was talking about this gold
Bible and everybody wanted to know what was going on.
So he started printing portions of it.
When Hiram Smith learned about this, because Joseph is back in Harmony,
Pennsylvania at this point, when Hiram learns that Obadiah, or that, uh,
Abner Cole is printing portions of the Book of Mormon.
He goes and has a stern little talking to and Abner Cole, uh, cease and desists.
He stops printing it.
So instead he takes up his pen in satire form under the pen name of Obadiah
Dogberry and he prints the Book of Pukieye.
Yeah, and it's amazing.
It's, it's fricking brilliant.
I love this so much.
Derek, you're just shaking your head, man.
What's, what's going on?
No, I mean, like, look, uh, he writes a satire.
You're saying up against the Mormon book, the church hasn't even started yet.
Oh my gosh, that's why I'm shocked.
I mean, I'm like, right out of the box, this guy can't even get a break.
They can't get a break.
It's like, when you think God's really doing this, it's like, come on, man.
What do you think?
Why does God make it so hard?
Yeah, come on.
You know, I mean, really, they could probably find a way the same way the church
makes martyrdom, like part of their whole thing.
Like you can say all these struggles God used the, you know, like, and it's like,
he used the printer and the writer and the grammar.
This beautiful message all inspired by the Holy Spirit.
I didn't write that with my finger yet.
I let the rough draft be done by humans.
But the final form God put his finger on it.
Yeah, no, God is just an editor.
You know, he's a good polisher.
So what's this book you're telling me about?
Like the satire book, what does he go to?
And it don't spend too much time.
And then we have very limited.
What does he say?
I mean, like, give me some funny.
Okay.
Well, it's, it's brilliant.
First off, because the guy who wrote it, you know, he's, he's a Palmyra resident.
He knows the smiths.
He's known him for years.
Uh, and he talks about the magic practices.
He even talks about a guy that we discussed last or two episodes ago,
Lumen Walters, you know, one of the magic mentors of Joseph Smith, the guy who went
to Gorm, New York and ran his own apothecary.
Right.
Um, he talks about Walters.
He talks about early magic elements.
And this is a scathing satire.
And it's so good.
I want to read just a few portions of it because it's so damn good.
And this is hosted on BYU's digital collections, right?
Like they have the original photocopy of the original Palmyra reflector.
You can read this on the church's own university website.
Bless their hearts.
And yeah, and he adopts Book of Mormon language as well.
Verse one, and it came to pass in the latter days.
By the way, as it came to pass is the, if you were playing bingo, that's, you know,
that's the bingo card game that would, we would all be toasted if for every time.
Well, or you could just listen to my Book of Mormon podcast and drink along with
it. And, uh, yeah, you will get smashed every episode.
Right.
So it came to pass in the latter days that wickedness did much abound in the land.
And the idol and slothful.
Now that's who he refers to as Joseph Smith's treasure digging group, the idol
and slothful, the idol and slothful said one to another.
Let us send it for Walters, the magician who has strange books and deals with
familiar spirits per adventure.
He will inform us where the Nephites hid their treasure.
So be it that we and our vagabond band do not perish for lack of sustenance.
So you get the general tone of it.
Like it's tapping into the magic and the treasure digging in the Book of Mormon
Nephites and it's the Book of Mormon language.
This Jacobian old English that rings so true to biblical, you know, language.
It's so damn good.
Right.
It continues.
Oh, and the idol and slothful paid tribute unto the magician.
Walters and besought him saying, Oh, thou art wise above all men and can
interpret the book that no man understandeth and can discover hidden things
by the power of thy enchantments.
Lead us, we pray thee to the place where the Nephites buried their treasure and
give us power over the spirits that we will be thy servants forever.
And then it talks about the, the, uh, how everything, you know, worked,
how the treasure digging worked and how, uh, Walters had a stuffed toad that he
would wave around and he made the saving throw, got experience point.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Yep.
And then it talks about how they discovered that there wasn't any buried treasure
and that Walters was defrauding them.
Uh, and it says, and it came to pass that when the idol and slothful,
that's the group became weary of their nightly labors.
They said one to another, low, this imp of the devil have deceived us.
Let us know more of him or per adventure ourselves.
Our wives and our little ones will become chargeable on the town.
He's going to run us into destitution, right?
Now, when Walters, the magician heard these things, he was sorely grieved
and said unto himself, low, my occupation is gone.
Even these ignorant vagabonds, the idol and slothful detect my name postures.
I will away and hide myself, lest the strong arm of the law should bring me to
justice.
But notably, I want to, I want to read the very last, the last verse out of this
because it's really important.
It says, now the rest of the acts of the magician, how his mantle fell upon the
prophet, Joseph Smith, Jr. The mantle of a seer, of a prophet, of a magician,
right, fell on Joseph Smith and how Joe made a league with the spirit who
afterwards turned out to be an angel and how he obtained the gold Bible
spectacles and breastplate.
Will they not be faithfully recorded in the book of Pewkeye?
But that's the only addition.
He didn't publish a sequel.
Damn it all.
Our work is clear.
We have the mantle.
Such a shame.
Also brings a important thing to notice that even though Joseph Smith is the
translator of the book of Mormon, he and the book of Pewkeye both felt the
need to translate it into old timey.
King James talk, not English, you know, not just, yeah.
It's funny how that works.
Yeah, it really is.
He's translating it.
He just puts in all the these and thousands.
So what was his purpose in writing this technically?
To just make fun of the Smith family and of Joseph Smith, right?
Cause like Abner Cole, he had started publishing the book of Mormon and Hiram
Smith came to his house with a baseball bat, right?
So he had to go about, you know, making fun of the Smiths in some other way beyond
just, just publishing parts of the book of Mormon.
So he, he penned this satire and it's brilliant.
And I will say, right?
Mormons will say today, um, you know, oh, how could Joseph Smith write the book
of Mormon with, you know, just you, he was, he was an uneducated farm boy.
It's far too complex.
It's far too beautiful.
It's the linguistic flourishes are just as far advanced beyond Joseph Smith.
Uh, I, I dare you to write something that's better than the book of Mormon.
It's like this guy who hated Joseph Smith, something or something way more entertaining
than the book of Mormon.
You kidding me?
That's, they said the exact same thing about Muhammad and the Koran.
Oh, the Koran is beautiful.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Uh, that side route that was well worth it.
Yeah.
The book of Pukie.
I, and I encourage listeners to Google it, or maybe you can throw a link to it up
in the, the, the description below because it's hilarious to read at top to bottom.
And it's only, I mean, it's only 10 verses and it's really short, but it's
absolutely hilarious.
And it reveals a lot of, of information that historians use to understand
the magic worldview and that Joseph Smith was doing all of this magic stuff.
Uh, because without stuff like this, without little artifacts and documents
that exist like this, we wouldn't really have any strong connections of
Joseph Smith to magic and occult practices.
Right.
But this is a contemporary expose written as satire to make fun of the Smith family
by somebody who was a neighbor of the Smiths for years.
I tend to take his word pretty heavily.
Yeah.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
Not to mention that we actually have the artifacts like Hiram.
Uh, we showed in episode one, it's his actual magical accoutrement and, and yeah.
I feel like, uh, there should be no reason that Mormonism even began to fly off the ground.
This is like the rights brothers except a felled experiment to me.
I don't know how I'm just like, I'm shocked every time we get into a next subject,
like whatever is going to follow this, there's going to be a problem.
There's going to be something.
And it's like, when, when is it going to end?
And you're going to go, Oh, this all collapsed.
No, people believe this stuff today.
It's like, yeah.
And he kept surfing that, that wave and pushing that envelope.
And there's so many times where it almost fell apart.
And that's what I'm saying.
And he came, he had so many runs.
And of course it finally caught up to him at the end, but you got to get a great run.
You had a great run, especially when it caught up to him.
All the other religions that came out of that same part of the world and that they fizzled out
or that, you know, one or two made it.
But, but yeah, by far Mormonism was the champion of the burned over district for sure.
So what follows this, Bryce?
Right.
So this, that book of Pukie I was published in, in, I believe, January or February 1830.
So just a couple of months before the Book of Mormon is finally published and on the shelves
and the church was started, right?
So the Book of Mormon hits the shelves March 29th.
And by revelation, they try and sell each copy for $1.50.
They sell none.
Nobody's buying this crap because at the time, like books are, books are a couple, you know,
a shekel or a few pennies, right?
Like books are so, so cheap.
And, and the Book of Mormon is not a spectacular book.
It sucks.
The Book of Mormon, if anyone watching has read this or have listened to podcasts reading it
or have listened to podcasts who read it just for the comedic fun, it sucks as a book.
It's so boring and so repetitive.
And the characters are paper thin and it just sucks.
And let's face it, Joseph's target demographic were not skilled readers.
No, no, no, no.
Well, and maybe that's the saving grace of the Book of Mormon is that there's enough
material there that it lulls you into a trance of stupidity.
And if you get through the whole thing, you can't help but come away changed as a person
having lost a few IQ points along the journey, right?
I mean, we've all heard the Mark Twain quote, it's chloroform and print.
Right, right, right.
And for a reader who's not playing with a full deck to begin with when they pick this up,
you know, it can, it can, it can bring you into that mindset where it's like, oh, this is great.
This is truly beautiful literature.
This is scripture because it sounds like the Bible, whatever the case.
Yeah, it's so crazy.
It must be true.
Yeah.
So they're trying to sell this thing and the church just started.
Tell me more about this church that he started.
I mean, like, what is it?
Like a typical Baptist type thing?
I mean, we have temples flying around.
OK, this the temples versus churches.
There's something weird going on here.
So Church of Christ, right?
It starts as the Church of Christ because according to the Book of Mormon,
Christ's church is named the Church of Christ.
But they changed it a couple of times, actually.
And and notably as well, David Whitmer, you know, as he's running his church
after Joseph's death, he ascribes the change of the name in the 1834
when they changed it to the Church of the Latter-day Saints.
He says that's when Joseph apostatized all the way back in 1834.
The dude continued to live for a decade after that, right?
So he spent a decade in apostasy, according to David Whitmer.
But, you know, it starts as the Church of Christ.
It starts with six members.
There it's just, you know, the people who are the witnesses are the members.
But they're not there physically because it starts in Manchester.
But there's also some evidence that has started actually in Fayette,
which would mean that the Smiths weren't actually there.
There's there's there's a bit of historical dispute about whether it started
in Palmyra or started in Fayette.
Needless to say, it started with less than a dozen people at the foundation of it.
And it struggles because Joseph's reputation precedes him everywhere he goes.
And people hate Joseph Smith.
Because he's a pretty liar.
Yes, exactly.
He's a grifter. He's a con man.
And people understand that.
And like and Mormons say, oh, it's all religious persecution.
It's like religious persecution.
Before he started the religion, what the hell are you talking about?
Right? It's the guy.
It's not the religion.
And that's the problem here.
So he starts a religion and there's a vicious power struggle
because when he initially starts it, he's giving revelations, right?
And let's take a second to tease apart the different books
of scripture of Mormonism, right?
So we have the King James Bible.
That's that's one that's one of the pillars.
Then we have the Book of Mormon, which is translated from these gold plates
written by ancient Native American Christian Jews
who wrote in Reformed Egyptian, whatever, fun.
OK, that's the Book of Mormon.
Then we have the Doctrine and Covenants.
The Doctrine and Covenants are Joseph Smith's revelations
that he just dictated and said, these are the word of God.
And you read through them and it's thus sayeth the Lord,
go build me a building.
Thus sayeth the Lord, go here on a mission.
Like it's how he ran his church was by divine fiat.
Super specific divine fiat by name.
You know, I'm talking to you, Ralph McKinley.
You do that, you know.
And what this basically did was create an economy of revelations
because people believe that, oh, this guy's talking to God.
And if I asked Joseph, what does God want me to do?
Then he's going to give me a revelation from God
that is God's word telling me what to do.
So it became an economy that he created.
And I do remember one guy left the church
when a revelation got his name wrong.
He left the church after that.
Well, there's a lot more to that story,
but we'll get into that in the Kirlind era as Simmons writer.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, so that's that's the Doctrine and Covenants.
And then we have the Pearl of Great Price
and the Pearl of Great Price where we can't get into it.
But it's comprised.
It's just a mishmash of a bunch of different revelations and stuff.
So the Doctrine and Covenants, these are his revelations
that he's giving to individuals to do a specific thing.
This is how he's running this church.
There's dispute over who can give revelations
and whether or not those revelations
are basically held with the same authority as Joe's revelations
because he established his church as there are elders.
The elders are the highest leadership body of the church.
And he and Oliver Cowdery were the first and second elder of the church.
And they later on this became the thing of like this priesthood stuff
that the Aaronic and the Mchesedic priesthood,
this became a later fabrication to backdate their claim to authority.
But there were disputes about this new religious sect
that prides itself on personal revelation,
whose revelation is actually authoritative.
And Joe had to viciously guard his claims to authority.
So when one of the witnesses named Hiram Page gave some revelations,
Joseph declared that those revelations are from the devil, from the adversary.
And not only were the revelations burned,
but the seer stone that Hiram Page used to get the revelations
with his rock and it has the same way that Joseph Smith did.
Joseph commanded that the seer stone be ground into dust and scattered to the wind.
Wow. Wow.
And Joe didn't have the balls to do this himself.
He took Oliver Cowdery to go do that stuff to Hiram Page.
Right. So what was the competition between these two guys?
What was the revelation that was so shocking, if you will,
that makes him go, oh, hell, no.
I'm so glad you asked.
I'm so glad you asked.
So one of the articles of faith of the church is that Zion,
the new Jerusalem will be built upon the American continent,
that the earth will be renewed and will that Christ will reign personally
and that the earth will receive its paradisiacal glory.
That's pretty close to verbatim.
Zion is a place.
It is the enlightened, pure, perfect city of God
from which issues the theocratic government of Christ's one true religion.
It's it's basically the government seat that that Jesus will descend down
from heaven and sit on that throne in Zion.
Joseph had been promising the early saints, the early members,
that Zion, the location of Zion would be revealed
because it was his church's task of building a temple and building the city
and building everything that would be this government in this city
that Jesus would reign from.
He refused to give a solid answer on where Zion was
because he wasn't sure yet.
He didn't know what would be a prudent decision
because he knows it's all a con, right?
Hiram Page decided to declare where Zion was.
And that gave Hiram Page access to information
that Joseph didn't have access to, which elevated Hiram Page
above Joseph Smith in the church hierarchy.
Can't have that.
So he had to squash that shit out as fast as he could
with as much decisiveness and deliberate action as possible.
So burn the revelation, destroy the seer stone and scatter it to the wind.
Wow. I want to pin in that for just a second
because I want to point out something that is always fascinating
about Mormonism, especially early Mormonism.
We think about, oh, yeah, it was Joseph Smith, this con artist,
and it was Brigham Young, this total bastard.
But what we're going to realize is that there was a whole rogues
gallery of people who descended into Mormonism and to take advantage of it.
And as we go through this series, we're going to meet some really
bizarre sociopathic characters for us.
We're just hitting the tip of the iceberg so far.
Let me ask you this, Bryce and David, are we getting close to the the three dollar bill?
Or is that is that something we need to get into?
Next episode. OK, OK, I have to go next.
How close are we to having 10 to 15 minutes?
OK, I think we can.
Huh, I'm up for a challenge.
I'm almost saying maybe this is a good place to stop and take up his eye on.
No, no, no, not yet, not yet, because we've got to talk about Sidney Rigdon.
Right, because we've got to bring we've got to bring Sidney Rigdon into the picture.
Right, so after Joe makes these various
jealous power grabs, he's also arraigned in court
for juggling, for, you know, for being a grifter and defrauding people.
And once again, this guy, Josiah Stowell, is called in to testify on Joe's behalf, and he does.
At this time, though, quite notably in this court hearing,
he's arrested and tried once and then released because of lack of jurisdiction
and immediately arrested and conveyed to another location, which did have jurisdiction.
The people there, this is in the town called Colesville,
and Joe had had trouble with the Colesville branch of the church since it began,
since they're the early church.
And when he was there in Colesville, the second group
or the second day of testimony in the second trial, Josiah Stowell's daughters
were brought in to testify about whether or not Joe had done any
un-Christian like conduct with them.
With the ladies.
With the ladies.
Yeah, no, I see, right.
We'll see you repeated throughout his reading.
OK, what did they say?
They said he was perfectly proper.
He was perfectly right.
Well, you know, because because their reputation
was attached to what happened in that court as well, right?
Of course, the girls are going to lie, too.
Of course, they would.
Consider the plight of a non-virgin girl at this time.
Are you serious? Of course, they're going to lie.
OK, OK. But do we know different?
Oh, Derek, Derek, pace yourself, because we're going to get plenty
of sex scandals in this in this series.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that'll that'll be a recurring thing.
I'm just trying to pregame for the wife inside. Help me out, man.
No, I'm just kidding.
All right.
That's the Smith talk, right, right, right.
Yep, yep, yep.
Yeah, so anyway, these two trials happen.
He's he's acquitted of the charges, but he's chased out of town
with people with pitchforks and torches, right?
He's he's kicked out.
They almost lynch him as he was being carried off to the second trial.
The wagon that he was that the constable was carrying him off in.
One of the wheels fell off and the group, the mob gathered around.
They tried to lynch him right there.
But the guy was the constable was able to hold him off with a pistol.
Fascinating stuff.
Anyway, so the narrow escape for our hero.
Yeah, exactly.
And there are there are a number of these these power grabs
and of these narrow escapes and of various things that happened.
There's also the first miracle of the church, which is an exorcism.
Joe told one of his early members to go out in the woods and pray
and maybe to go pick up some of those little mushroom caps.
And the guy comes back and he he's in terrible shape.
He's being thrown around.
He's convulsing.
And then Joe exercises a demon out of this guy.
Fascinating stuff.
So and, you know, once again, if you, you know, if you subscribe
to the the possibility that Joe was using drugs
and drugging the early Mormons, shit makes a lot of sense.
So anyway, Joe decides to send their first missionary troop to Missouri.
And this is going to be a crucial point in early Mormon history
because he eventually will declare Missouri is Zion.
He hasn't declared it yet, but he sends the first mission's missionaries out
to meet with Native Americans in Missouri,
because that was that was considered the West.
Everything beyond the Mississippi was considered the West back then.
And that's where the the closest Native American reservations were.
Settlements were and also consider this.
Andrew Jackson had just taken office.
He had just that year signed the Indian Removal Act of 1830. Right.
This is a controversial time in American history
where European settlers are justifying genocide
and removal and exterminations of indigenous peoples.
So Joe sends his missionaries out there.
But on the way, they stop in Kirtland in Kirtland, Ohio.
And they meet a guy named Sidney Rigdon.
Let me find Sidney Rigdon here, because this guy is also
super duper important in Mormon history.
Here's here's our boy. Here's old Sidney Rigdon.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I got a lot of that beard, a chin strap beard.
Right. So Sidney Rigdon is a Baptist preacher,
and he has a pretty sizable congregation, a couple of hundred followers in Ohio.
And these missionaries, they hand him a book of Mormon as the story goes.
And he converts that he reads it, he converts to the church.
And then he heads out to New York
to meet Joseph Smith in person to figure out what's going on with this guy.
And he also brings along his rich friend, Edward Partridge.
Who has two daughters who are not even 10 years old yet.
So Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge head out to New York
and they meet Joseph Smith.
And this is where Sidney Rigdon and Joseph Smith.
They hit it off.
They are great friends. Absolutely awesome.
And they start running the church from New York.
But Rigdon made a proposition to Joseph Smith.
Hey, I got a couple hundred followers in Ohio.
If you move the headquarters of the church to Ohio,
those people are going to convert to the church.
And they're probably going to buy books of Mormon.
There's even some rich guys out there who you can live with and siphon money from.
How about you move the headquarters?
Yeah, a little bit.
And yeah, I mean, these aren't exactly quotes, but you know, you get the point.
Right. Joe says, great idea. Great idea, Sidney.
Let's do it. And in the meantime, they start a new project
translating or making a new translation of the Bible.
Neither of them know Hebrew or Greek.
No, no, not not we're not talking translation.
We're talking translation. That's right.
So they start writing their own version of the Bible.
And by the end of 1830,
Joe gives a revelation to his followers that they are moving to Ohio
and he commands them to to rent out their property if they can't sell it.
And if they can't rent out their property, then to abandon it.
And the rich people in Ohio will take care of all of the destitute religious refugees.
This is the first Mormon exodus.
What could go wrong? Yeah.
What could possibly go wrong? What could possibly?
Yep, we'll find out next week.
That's right. That's the perfect time to put a pin in this because
goodness gracious, it just doesn't stop.
Like it's one of those TV shows that could easily be done where I get pissed
because you're like you're on your edge of your seat, like what is about to happen?
And then they make it like barely.
And then you're like, but I can't even take a breath because another thing hits.
And then it's like, oh, my gosh, the whole season's like this.
So yep.
And I keep thinking, oh, man, we just talked about that.
I can't wait till this happens to me now.
And that's the thing, too, is like now we finally got through
the most boring part of more ministry. We finally we're finally through it.
We're going to pick up next episode with Joe, Joe and Emma arriving in Courland,
Ohio and all of the shenanigans that transpired from there.
This episode, we got through a whole year and a half, a year, basically, of Mormon history.
I don't know if we're going to be able to get through six years of Courland history in that time.
We'll see. We'll see how long the series actually goes.
We'll see.
I'm not going to hold it.
We're just doing the pure gold, the things that are doubly messed up.
I'm not holding you guys to any limits on where we need to end this thing,
because it's got my attention and I could see what you mean.
Now things are really going to get exciting.
Like I said, in the last episode, an episode before that and write your questions down.
Yeah, write your questions down, guys.
We might cover what you have, honestly.
You just never know.
Bryce is all over the place with this. David remembers things.
And so there's no telling what's going to happen at the end of this.
But I really appreciate you guys tuning in to episode three.
Be looking out next week for episode four on Thursday.
So thanks, guys.
Thank you.
It's a pleasure.
Anytime I have a captive audience, I'm a happy camper.
Oh, yeah.
And don't forget we are
Mithvision.
