Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Come on, subscribe to his podcast.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert, early Mormonism,
Joseph Smith, and some of the not only craziest things I've ever heard,
but some of the most emotional descriptions of some type of cult leader leading his people into
a theocracy, so to speak, that is causing people to literally kill one another.
This is an intense story given by Bryce Blankenagel and David Fitzgerald.
We'll start with them. And first off, I want to say David Fitzgerald,
he's the author of the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion and the Mormons.
Make sure you guys go down in the description, get it on ebook, get it on hard copy,
go check out his Patreon, he just opened up and started. You guys can help support what these
gentlemen do. And Bryce Blankenagel also has a Patreon. He is the host of Naked Mormonism podcast.
And both of these guys go into a lot more description than what we're going to hear
on this show. I'm learning with you guys. I've never heard this material. I've known Mormon
missionaries that walk to my door. They really mean well. I know they're sincere. They're great
people. Some of the most family-orientated people I've ever met. They're just such lovable people.
But the origins of this entire cult and where it comes from, you're never going to hear anything
like this except for these two gentlemen. So with that, thank you guys for joining me today
on MythVision Podcast. I can't wait to hear what you have to say. There was a serious battle,
a nine-year-old that's killed, gruesome graphics come into my mind looking and imagining what this
must have been like. And there's no telling where we're going from here. So I'm going to stay silent
and learn. Thank you. I guess I want to start this conversation jumping off of what you said there,
Derek. This is material that most Mormons will never, ever learn about their entire life.
A very small group of historians, some who work for the church, some who work for church institutions
at BYU, some who are independent researchers, whatever the case may be. They understand all
of this. They understand the real humanity behind what we're discussing and what really
transpired here and where the faults lie, where the conflicts exist, who's responsible for what.
And they retain belief in the church and retain full faithful membership in the church,
which proves to me that people are capable of understanding this history and still being members
of the church. But the fact that the church does not ever teach any of this to the membership
and that the only history, the only church history that most members know is that Joseph Smith was
a prophet. He had a vision. He translated the golden plates into the Book of Mormon and then he was
martyred. That is a massive disservice and an infantilization of these people. It is not
trusting these people to come to their own conclusions and their own understanding
with having this information. And I think that that is a disservice to the people who are members of
the institution as well as the institution itself. And my work on making Mormonism and in venues like
this, where I am graciously invited to discuss Mormon history, is to try and expand that scope,
to try and bring more people into an understanding of Mormon history, because I think that there is a
plethora of rich and fascinating stories within this timeline that we can take some real human
lessons from, that extend far beyond religious tenets and theology. And I think it's very important
to understand those tensions and to understand what lessons are truly
pregnant throughout the saga of Joseph Smith's Mormonism. I want to say before we get started,
and this is fascinating. I mean, we're already beginning here, but into the history again,
your knowledge on this is invaluable. You really have a grasp on this. Me and David,
we're talking about this off air. Like no one I know, this is a passionate thing. And I know
this is very emotional for you, especially coming from this. I mean, there's always a special place
in our heart for those who are where we were. I'm a recovering addict. I look at addicts with
sympathy, empathy, and I understand that it's an illness. They're not bad people necessarily.
They have, if you will, blinders on. They don't understand the cycle they're in. And the same
goes for those missionary, those young children who are indoctrinated at a young age, great children,
some of the greatest people I've ever met are Mormons, and they don't even know
where this comes from. So this is great information. And I really value you and David Fitzgerald's
information and knowledge. You've got all these details. And David, he's going to
pop out the things and be humorous about it like he should do stand up really. But I agreed.
I love you guys, man. And I really appreciate everything you guys bring. I hope that everyone
watching this will go down and support you guys in your endeavors. So with that, I will be silent.
John, thank you for that. That's awesome. Mormons are getting executed. The Mormon
leadership, Joseph Smith is set to be executed the next morning after
far west. The strong Mormon stronghold in Caldwell County has now surrendered. They wave the white
flag. Joseph Smith, Alexander McCrae, Hiram Smith, George Hinkel, Parley Pratt, a number of the
Mormon leadership are now in the state's custody, set to be executed by a court marshal. Now, we can
discuss the merits and the usefulness of court marshals and the proper utility for court
marshals here. And I think that that conversation bears a little bit of discussion.
But a court marshal was not the place where Joseph Smith should have been ruled to be executed,
right? Because he was not a state sanctioned militia officer. He had not committed treason
as an approved of member of the state military. He created his own rebel militia and committed
treason with it. So a court marshal is for internal investigations within the military.
And if somebody is found to have committed treason or have taken AWOL or whatever the case is,
a court marshal is the right place for that hearing to happen. And it's a tribunal.
That's what Samuel Lucas, I believe it was the general Samuel Lucas held for Joseph Smith and
the other leadership. And he sentenced them to execution because they had committed treason.
And members of the state militia. Go back one sentence, sorry. General Lucas,
determined that these men were to be shot and executed for committing treason.
Whether or not that should have been carried out is a large question because these men were not
actually members of the state militia or if this should have been a citizen tribunal.
The legal biases of that are what saved his life in this case.
That is correct, as well as a Jack Mormon, General Donovan. So we have General Atchison
who had been commissioned as part of the militia force to surround Far West. And then
when Governor Luburn Boggs realized that General Atchison was more favorable to the Mormons,
Governor Boggs disbanded Atchison's troops. He wanted Far West to be surrounded by anti-Mormons,
not somebody with Mormon sympathies. So General Atchison went home because that was what his
orders were by the executive of the state, Governor Boggs. General Donovan was not as much of a,
let's say, a firebrand friend of the Mormons as General Atchison was. And General Donovan
hadn't been holding Governor Boggs' feet to the fire the way that General Atchison had. So
General Donovan, a Jack Mormon friend of the Mormons, was there the night that Far West was
surrounded and the Mormon leadership surrendered. So Samuel Lucas, this guy who executed the court
marshal and the square of Far West the next morning, figured that it would be best if he had
General Donovan carry out that military execution. Because as a matter of spectacle, as a matter of
optics, this court marshal was extra judicial. He didn't actually have the legal authority
to commit these men to be executed. But if he could get this Jack Mormon, General Donovan,
to carry out his order and execute these guys in the square of Far West, then that would create
a veneer of justification for it. So he said, you carry this out. General Lucas said to General
Donovan, quote, you will take Joseph Smith and the other prisoners into the public square of
Far West and shoot them at nine o'clock tomorrow morning. General Donovan understood what was
going on and understood that he was becoming a pawn of General Samuel Lucas. And he said,
it is cold blooded murder. I will not obey your order. My brigade shall march for liberty
tomorrow morning at eight o'clock. And if you execute those men, I will hold you responsibly
responsible before an earthly tribunal. So help me God. So there's infighting among the
Missouri militia officers. And I gotta say how extraordinary it is during this time,
given what's already happened in Missouri, that there is a military officer who's willing to say,
no, we've gone too far. We have to keep it legal. Good on him. Good on him.
General Donovan saved the lives of these men. He did that by disobeying this order,
literally going against his commanding officer and by disobeying this order and instead taking
his men against the orders of the governor and marching to liberty to have a meeting with the
other militia officers and generals there and to take their understanding to Governor Lilburn Boggs
by disobeying Governor Boggs and Samuel Lucas here, his two highest ranking commanding officers,
he saved the lives of these men and Samuel Lucas did not carry out the execution.
And here's another what if moment. This is just one more of those crazy ass moments where
Mormonism could have been snuffed out just like that. Right there. It's gone. Yeah. This was probably
the last big great escape that Joseph Smith would pull out of his hat in fact. Yep. Exactly.
And had it happened, I remember 133, I think. Yeah, we would be missing 133 of the divine
revelations he received over the next four years. And so so much of what we think of as Mormonism
would have just never would have been stillborn in the grave. Yep. Yeah, or it would have
accelerated the schism crisis that we see play out in 1844. And who knows, because that has
ramifications for not just Mormon history, not just American history, but world history.
Joseph Smith has executed here. World history looks different than it does today.
Weird to think about, isn't it? I can't wait till we get to this succession crisis,
because that is fun, crazy fun. Oh yeah. Well, and yeah, this is one of those butterfly effects,
right? And we see this is the butterfly flapping or not flapping its wings that allowed Mormonism
to be what it is today. So the Mormon leadership surrenders. And this is in far west in Caldwell
County. There's the Twin Mormon City of Adam on Diamond by Missouri militia. And they do by Missouri
militia because you just broke out surrounded. They're surrounded by a Missouri militia, right?
So the Twin Mormon cities are surrounded that they can't do anything. They can't go anywhere.
They can't get provisions in and out. The towns are basically under siege. They had built up
breastwork, bulwarks around the city to try and, you know, set them up for defensive
strategy. But they had begun those defensive procedures way too late in and the cities were
incredibly vulnerable. They didn't have the defenses necessary to actually stand up to a
siege, especially if the siege was going to go out throughout the winter, because the Mormons
didn't have enough provisions to survive the winter. Let me just jump in real on that note.
Thinking what once they've been going through Joseph Smith's mind at this time, he much thought,
okay, we had a good run, but it is over because it's done. It's done. We can't beat these guys.
We don't have the food to get out the winter. We're getting kicked out into the cold, into the
wilderness. And I, you know, say what you love about what you want about Joseph. I do have to
give him props in this particular case that he said, I'm going to offer myself up as a sacrifice,
whether he really thought that was going to happen or if he thought he was going to
James T. Kirk his way out of it somehow. That's how he presented it.
I got to poke in here and ask because I got to ask, Bryce, Bryce, you're super skeptical,
right? And you guys have different views and you guys are different, right? You don't always agree
on things, which is why you got to stay tuned because there's going to be some stuff later
on that you guys are going to be able to talk about. I can't wait for. Is that really the fact,
David? And the reason why I ask is, could that be propaganda? Could that be Mormon like he was
self-sacrificing like our Lord, you know, Jesus? Excellent point because we see a lot of plenty
of that after the fact for sure, especially when it comes to Carthage Jail, as we'll get into.
I mean, if like, for example, let's say the historical count is they got caught. Okay. Well,
ain't nothing we can do now. They play it and they mythologize it into he self-sacrificingly
surrendered himself unto death. You know, like, hold on, dude. No, nice try. You guys were doing
everything you could and then you got caught and really well caught. Yeah, right. Yeah. It's a good
point. What do you think? Is that something you think, Bryce? Yeah, you kind of said it perfectly,
Derek. Like they were totally out of options. They were. This is the point where Joseph Smith
becomes a victim of his own rhetoric, right? Because and this happened back in Zion's camp,
too. He had been preaching militarism. We are God's promised people. That is our promised land.
We're going to restore the saints back to Zion. We're going to build Zion, the new Jerusalem,
on the American continent. He is preaching this militarism that we are going to, you know,
vex the nation with a sort of vexation. We're going to convert all of the Lamanites to Christian,
to Mormonism, to Christianity. He had been spouting this rhetoric for a long time.
And at this point, when he surrenders without going down in a blaze of glory,
like that obviously shows how much Joseph Smith knew that his own stuff was bullshit, right?
Because if he's truly the prophet of God, he is expecting Jesus himself to come riding in on a
white horse and rescue the chosen people. But that didn't happen. Obviously, that didn't happen.
If he believed his own rhetoric, if he believed the things that he was saying
about the Mormon exceptionalism, this narrative, this persecution narrative,
that they are the one true chosen people of God, the dude never surrenders.
But he does, right? I think that reveals a lot about the inner machinations of Joseph Smith's
mind, that he was far more of an opportunist and a user, as well as a bit utilitarian.
If he can use somebody or something or an advantageous location or place or
provision or a resource, he's going to do that. And other people recognize that Joseph Smith was
an opportunist and they use that to their own advantage, but into the hopefully what we're
going to get into later today. So Joseph Smith surrenders, the Mormon cities surrender.
They're telling the leadership at Adam on diamond, we surrendered in far west,
you need to do the same. And they initially don't believe it. But then they're like, well,
well, we're going to come in and ransack your town anyway. So it doesn't matter what you believe.
And the Mormon leadership is carried off to Richmond, which is the southernmost county in
this bulk of counties that we're talking about here in Ray County. And the Mormon settlements are
ransacked. Under the guise of we're looking for weapons, they were looking for any weapons the
Mormons might have, as well as the arms and the cannon that the Mormons had stolen, which by this
point the Mormons actually had buried the cannon to come pick it up and exhume it later and use it
in whatever might come. They were looking for the state arms that the Mormons have stolen,
as well as any arms that the Mormons might have. So they use that as the guise to go through both
of the Mormon settlements far west and Adam on diamond and ransack and burn their crops and shoot
their hogs and cattle and horses and to steal everything. And of course, like concomitant with
this, this is also a time when a military force takes over a town. You don't want to be a woman
in that. So we understand that of course there was ravaging going on as well.
This is a very ugly and dark time in American history and especially Mormon history.
So the Mormon leadership is conveyed to Richmond where they face a court of inquiry.
This is a term that's not used in our current legal parlance, but it is essentially a grand jury
trial where the status collecting is enough to determine whether or not there is enough evidence
to go with an actual jury trial. Which is chaired by Justice Austin A. King.
And if that name doesn't ring a bell to anybody, that I don't blame you because I don't think I
even said the guy's name when he came up earlier in the timeline. Austin A. King is the justice that
the Mormons surrounded his house and forced him to sign a document under duress that he would
basically show privilege to the Mormons. Austin A. King was the justice who chaired that court of
inquiry. So obviously he's not an impartial judge in all of this. It would be fair. It's impossible
to find somebody who's impartial in the entire state of Missouri. But maybe somebody who's slightly
more impartial than somebody who got intimidated by 200 armed guys who surrounded his house.
Don't get me wrong. Don't get me wrong. I mean, guys, they're caught.
They are caught. And it is obvious that, you know, this guy, what evidence do you need? I mean,
I am the guy. You circled my house. You threatened me, you know? Whoa. I mean, if you get a jury,
they are caught, red-handed, locked the key, throw away the key, whatever they're done.
And that's what happens. They were locked away from prison for the rest of their lives,
the ones who weren't shot. And that was the end of Mormonism. That's what you would think.
You would think. You would think. Because that's how it's supposed to work. That's how the court
system is supposed to work, right? Exactly. So this court of inquiry happens. And this is when
Dr. Sampson of Art, you know, chairman of the Danites, turned state's witness and he testifies
about everything that went on with the Danites. He turns over the Danite manifesto that gave
the dissenter, you know, gave the excommunicated guys, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, John Whitmer,
William Phelps, you know, 72 hours to leave town. He turns over a bunch of documents to the state
and they use it all in this court of inquiry. And once again, the court of inquiry was there to
determine if the prosecution had enough evidence to move forward with a case for a jury trial.
This is not a jury trial to get to a verdict and, you know, commit these guys to jail.
This was just to determine if there's enough evidence to move forward, which this is, you know,
all grand jury. It's a grand jury that we use today. Back then the term was a court of inquiry.
Gotcha. And serious, serious chartries and arson, you name it.
Yeah, no, let's go through the exact charges. Treason, murder, arson, burglary, robbery,
larceny, and a perjury. Seven different charges that all these guys are facing. And this is all
in the conspiracy. It's all the leadership of Mormonism here. Upwards of like 60 guys are arrested
and arraigned into this court of inquiry here with the primary movers being Joseph Smith,
Hiram Smith, his older brother, Sidney Rigdon, Alexander McCrae, Lyman White, and Harley Cratch.
No, yeah, no. Who was the guy? It's all right. It's all right. And others.
Kayla Baldwin, Kayla Baldwin. There we go. So these, these are the primary Mormon leaders who
are Danites who are in the church leadership, the church presidency. They're all reigned in court
as part of this court of inquiry. Samson Avard gives this damning testimony. The Mormons are not,
the defense is not allowed a witness in all of this, because this is just a grand jury.
This is for the prosecution to present its evidence to determine if the state is going
to move forward in an actual prosecution of a jury trial. So the Mormons are not allowed a defense
in this, which fuels the prosecution narrative, right? Because they see this as the court that
sentenced them to jail, and they didn't even get a chance to make them defense, to mount a proper
legal defense against this. Well, that was not the venue for the defense to take place, right?
Notably, though, General Donovan, the guy who refused to carry out the orders and execute the
guys in the city square far west, he was Joseph Smith's legal counsel. He was the legal counsel
for the men in this court of inquiry. The court goes forward and the men are all locked up in
Missouri jails. I think in total, 48 men are locked up in jails all over. And this is when,
yeah, once again, the names Joseph Smith, his older brother, Hirom Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Lyman
White, Kayla Baldwin, and Alexander McCray are locked up in the ironically named Liberty Jail.
And I actually have a picture, a few pictures of Liberty Jail. Let me pull them up really quick
here. And because it today is a Mormon tourist attraction, let me make sure this is correct,
because basically what this thing is now, the church purchased Liberty Jail, or the plot where
Liberty Jail was, that's not what I'm looking for. My apologies, dear viewers. This is all for
my tour around Liberty. Hey, you want to see me posing with a statue of space Jesus? There we go.
All right, I got to find Liberty Jail one second. It's around here somewhere. Okay.
No, I'm not going to find the picture I'm looking for. So this is a recreation of Liberty Jail,
and the church has basically built a vault around this jail. It's a recreation of it.
And you can see here what this jail looked like, what the size of it is, the general dimensions of
it. And you can even see the figures down low. There we go. In the lower area, they have these
these wax figures of all six men who were entered in the jail. So this is the two-story jail.
That's a really cool model, not model, but real good reconstruction. Yeah. And then this is owned
by the church, and they have missionaries on staff at all times who lead tours of the Missouri.
And they have these plaques around. It's a whole visitor center. The original key to the Liberty
Jail here. And you know, the prison temple. Joseph Smith is writing a bunch of revelations here. So
this is the picture I was actually looking for originally. Basically Martin Luther King, Jr. in
there. Yeah. Oh, that's a multifaceted statement.
So that's Liberty Jail, right? And that's the vault that the church has built around it. And
they have missionary staff there all the time. When I went and toured this, go ahead, Derek.
I was going to say, these guys are down here. You already got me thinking. So these guys are down
here in this jail, all of them. And they're not necessarily on the same page. I mean,
a couple of them were excommunicated from being in the position of power they were in from what I
understand. Not these guys. Not these guys. These were all on the same page. So let me ask you this,
in light of that, what was said? I suspect they mythologized something about this jail scenario,
and then they spoke and the prophets said, you know, is there something that was done during
this jail visit that they have his letters? We do. They are actually part of church's revelations
in the Doctrine and Covenants sections 121 through 123. His Joseph Smith.
One thing that I love to see as a trend in Joseph Smith's timeline is when he is stuck,
when he is unable to go anywhere to do anything to meet with people, the dude gets creative. And
that comes into place with the Book of Mormon and writing it that comes into play with the
translating of the Bible. He is stuck inside for the winter. He and Sidney Rigdon are working
away, plugging day after day after day away on that project. Most of his revelations are delivered
in the wintertime. His theological revelations are delivered in the wintertime when he can't go out
and travel to local Mormon settlements and preach. And when he is in Liberty Jail, he is
opining, he's thinking, he's mulling over the situation that the Mormons had just been through,
and he expounds on theology. His theology is develop whenever he is stuck. And I can pinpoint
each time when there is a theological development in Mormon history, when that happened, it was at
a time that Joseph Smith was stuck indoors. And Liberty Jail is one of those times.
Fun fact, we could also trace the acquisition of more wives to Joseph Smith through where he stayed
in places. That's a whole different episode we have to get into.
Yeah, that is an important point though, because we have his letters that he basically sent as
epistles to the Mormons at this time. But we also have his letters that were personal,
and he sent a letter to his wife, Emma, of like, give the kids my love, be strong, and everything.
But also, he was visited by somebody who would eventually become his wife. And the letter is
like full of flourishes, and my heart was filled with your companionship. And it's interesting
to see the dichotomy of the letter he sent to his wife, Emma, and to the woman who he was courting
who visited him. This is also the very first time where Joseph Smith puts in writing, Gods,
instead of God. And he is like, you have to try and stick yourself in Joseph Smith's mindset,
right? He says in this time, because he's suffering, and he thinks that the jail guards try to feed him
human flesh. And like, there's a lot of really horrible stuff is going on here. He says, like,
why have you forsaken us? God, why have you forsaken us? He is wracked with torment. He doesn't
know what to think, because all of his blustering, all of his rhetoric, all of his things that he
thinks are, you know, he's the prophet of God, he's speaking for God. If he has a thought in his
mind, it's obviously comes from God. And no savior wrote in to take down his enemies,
to kill his persecutors. Nothing came in to save the Mormons. During this time,
he's locked up from November to April 1838 to 1839. The Mormons are being removed from Missouri,
and they are forced from the state. Missouri Governor Luburn Box's executive order said,
I don't care where you go, anywhere but here. And the Mormons didn't know where to go either.
So they went north and east, the nearest place that they possibly could to get out of the state
of Missouri, because it was illegal for them to live in the state of Missouri, because
that executive order was being enforced by Missouri militiamen.
Another detail to add into all this, right? The Mormons, all their stuff had been stolen
because the Twin Cities were ransacked, right, by the Missouri militias. And that was all their
property, their clothing, their rugs, their food stores, their hogs, and their cattle had been
shot in the streets. And some of them had been taken by the militia who had ransacked the cities,
but most of them were just left rotting in the streets. The Mormons were completely destitute.
And the Missouri militia basically said, in order to pay for all of the militia coming
out here and having to fight against you, we're going to take your property as payment for all
of it, right, as part of the legal expenses for this. And when you think about it, it's a miracle
they survived that migration. Every single migration they had was traumatic and just pathetic, pathetic,
yeah. And if anything, it also reinforces the concept of generational trauma.
Mormons are incredibly cohesive and tribalistic and very black and white thinking. And that's
because the generational trauma that is, you know, part and parcel with this persecution narrative
has been taught to them from day one. I remember being a six, seven-year-old kid learning about
Hans Mill massacre, not learning any of the details that led to it, but hearing that our
people were murdered by the government because of what they believed. That trauma is reinforced
by missionaries, by members in the church, by people who are converted to the church,
and then convert others. That trauma is reinforced generationally.
And something just occurred to me as you were saying that we see the exact same thing happen
in early Christianity. The period of persecution was where you get the hammers that temper the steel
and gets the cohesiveness, gets the, binds them into a tribe, as you say. And
Mormonism is clearly almost an ethnicity unto itself now because it became a tribe.
In that vain quick snip that you bring up there, David, which I love referring back to early
Christianity, just one theory, not sure if this is accurate or true, open to the idea of Jesus being
a possible historical rebel figure, right? This is an option, even though mythicism is what you
write about extensively in your book. If there was a guy, he probably wasn't a good Roman citizen
or buddy of Rome. He may have been this guy, something like a Joseph Smith, if you will,
of a Jewish cult. And here you have the Romans trying to extinguish these guys. And here we have,
if you were to utilize, just throwing it out there, if you were to utilize, crustace these
things, right? And you said, well, why are they getting kicked out of Rome? Why are all the Jews
being taken? Why are the fires, all these things? And so it's an interesting idea to speculate.
Right. And again, that's a whole other ball of wax because I don't think that was the case with
early Christianity. But I was thinking about how the myth of persecution, how the early church
cherished this false history. And it's not all religions, but all countries can do it too.
It's like George Washington could never tell a lie. And the pilgrims came here for freedom and
made films with the Indians. Our countries and our institutions and our religions
are all built on these founding myths. And when you look at them, you can see that, oh, yeah,
that's a little more to it than that. You know, great point. I just want to add to that. And then
I'll let Bryce continue the story. This is great. In light of what you said, there is an interesting
hypothesis by my buddy, James Stevens Valiant, which I've got Richard Carrier reading his book,
Creating Christ. He thinks that a lot of there were like Jewish rebels and obviously see what
happened in 70 AD. You see what took place. So what he says is he says, the Christians kind of
hijacked, if you will, this, what was happening to Jewish people who were obviously,
the best way I could put it is this, do you think watching this show so far that Joseph Smith and
the Mormons deserve what they have coming to them? Part of me says they kind of walked into
this, right? At the same time, they're using what they walked into as a mythology to make it like
their own mythology. And so the myth of persecution, Candida Moss, you must read that if you're
interested in finding out how bogus the claims are. I did a recent show on this too, a myth vision,
how all these claims of a, and they tried to fillet his skin, but the knives couldn't cut it,
or they tried to burn them alive, but he couldn't catch fire. Like it's, it's all hocus pocus. Yeah.
Yeah. And even, even some of the quote, quote, historical accounts of Christian martyrdom turn
out I've been ripped off from earlier stories of other groups like Jews being martyred, you know.
So the, the, the, once again, the irony just continues the dog pile on each other. But we're
getting well afield. We are. Well, no, no, no. To bring it all back, like this is one of the reasons
I started off this, you know, this treatise by saying there are lessons within early Mormonism
that transcend just Mormon history, right? That there are human lessons, there are human elements
that we can tease apart and pick at and look at in a much broader swath and use Mormonism as
basically a case study, cohesion and what tribal thinking and what persecution does. And I want
to bring up, you know, what you said, David, when I interviewed you on naked Mormonism,
persecution is like fertilizer. There's just the right amount of it and religion can't help
but grow. And this was a viciously traumatic experience that the Mormon sect needed to grow,
to fuel that persecution narrative because every single one of Joseph Smith's sermons
from this point forward talks about Missouri. And it became a central figure of his political
attacks and, and became the, the place where he would begin his military expedition burning
across the nation, right? Like Joseph Smith learned a lot from Missouri, but most importantly,
he learned that he could take the trauma that he caused the Mormons to experience and wrap it
into his persecution narrative and get a lot of shit done with that persecution narrative.
So, yeah, something good to use. Yeah. Yes. Magnificent bastard. Right. Right. Right. Right.
So Joseph Smith and his buddies are locked away in Missouri jails. He told people like
General Lyman White, get the hell out of Missouri, because if they found out that you
participated in the Battle of Kirkwood River, you're dead. He entertained pretensions that he
could get out of this, but he knew that there were some things that he had done or that his boys had
done that if the Missouri state got ahold of them, they were dead for treason. So he told a number
of guys to get out. Yeah. And most of the apostles as well. Yeah. So Joseph Smith is locked in jail
and here Brigham Young once again, shows his usefulness because now Joe and the leadership,
the people that all the Mormons trust, there's thousands of Mormons. There's like five,
six thousand Mormons at this time. They're all in jail. They're all facing the barrel of trees
in an arson and robbery and murder. These guys could very well be executed. Somebody's got to
coordinate getting those six, seven thousand bodies across a state line. That's where Brigham
Young steps in because Thomas Marsh was president of the Quorum of Apostles. Thomas Marsh defected.
He was one of the people who filed an affidavit and gave it to Lilbur Boggs and Lilbur Boggs was
like, Holy crap. Get him out of here. And he signed or he wrote the Mormon extermination order in
response to the affidavit that Marsh filed. Marsh was president of the Quorum of Apostles. So with
him defected and remaining in Missouri, Brigham Young steps up to the mantle as president of the
Quorum of Apostles. And he uses that mantle, he uses that office to coordinate the next Mormon
from Missouri to a little town called Quincy, Illinois. Now, Illinois, okay, so people across
the nation have been paying attention to the Missouri Mormon War. It gained a lot of headlines.
It sold a lot of papers, right? And that has its own kind of weird effects. Illinois was a northern
slave or northern wig state. And they viewed Missouri rightfully so as the backwards slave
holding Democrats, Southern, Jacksonian, Mobacrat state that it was. And largely the citizens of
Illinois were receptive to the plight of the Mormons. Especially after news of Hans Mill massacre.
Especially, yes, a real propaganda victory for them, you know, turning lemons and eliminate,
if you will. Yeah, absolutely. So the citizens in Illinois, including the governor, Thomas Carlin
of Illinois began to see the Mormons as, you know, they were religious refugees for lack of
better term. And this crowd was as destitute as they come. I'm amazed they even made it to Illinois.
It was a hard winter. Let's just say it's a hard winter, right? Like my great, great, great grandma's
journal, Patience to Lila Pierce, she talks about how horrible this was. It was vicious. It was cold.
It was waiting until the river was frozen over enough so they could cross. It was
ferrying Mormon families with the few provisions that they could carry out of town
across the Mississippi to Quincy. And then, you know, as soon as they got off of the ferry in
Quincy, like, yeah, you set up a shack, you hang up a tarp, you, you, you know, grab some logs and
make a lean to, right? And this is the dead of winter. This is horrible. Not all of them made it.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Dozens of people died, hundreds of children died in all of this. This was a vicious
and ugly time. It really, there's no getting around them. This is horrible. And if we want to lay
blame, like Joseph Smith is responsible for this, Governor Boggs is responsible for this.
Everybody bears blame. There's nobody has clean hands in all of this. It's an ugly,
disgusting time of American history. And really, it shows one of the reasons why Mormons,
by and large, as a population are much more sympathetic to the plight of immigrants
than like evangelical Christians. Mormons are much less interested in building a wall
and, you know, kicking out asylum seekers because of their own unique history as a peculiar people,
because they know about this. Most Mormons know about Liberty Jail and about the Honsmill Massacre
and about the Mormon, the Mormon extermination order and being forced to resettle in Illinois.
They know about this history. And that's part of the cultural identity of Mormonism. That's why I
call myself a cultural Mormon, because this part, this is built into my DNA. Is it fair to say they
know the propagandized version that kind of makes them painted as the good guys the whole way through?
However, they still experience the same, like even if I started the fight with the pit bull and the
pit bull bit me, they know about the bite from the pit bull. They don't necessarily care about or
acknowledge the details of, I was poking the pit bull. Yeah, that gets lost in the details,
but the fact is, I mean, they pay for this with their blood. It's a very real,
it's a very real trauma that they've endured. Even though lies are what prompted it,
they still had to really suffer and really go through an actual thing.
That's a great point, just so that we can get back on track. And for our audience that's wanting
to know like me, they're moving from state to state. They are in an exodus. They are going
from Missouri to this little town, and Joseph Smith and other prophets are in prison in Missouri
right now. Is he in communication writing letters to the new president of what is this,
how can I not remember? It's not even that organized at this point. Yeah. Okay. Are they
communicating? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So a lot of communications are going out. Joseph Smith has
constant visitors and messengers who are carrying messages to and from the Mormons in him in
Liberty Jail. And I want to speak really quickly to what you were saying earlier, both you, Derek
and David. The most effective propaganda is nine-tenths true, right? You take all of these stories
and you tell just an almost perfectly true version of it, and then you add a little slant to it,
and people will die. They will go to their graves believing this stuff, right? Yes, and they did,
and they do. They absolutely did, and they do. So Joseph Smith and the leadership were locked
up in Liberty Jail. The Mormon exodus is happening under the guiding hand of Brigham Young,
as well as Joe's uncle, Uncle John Smith. At this time, Joseph's parents are also making the trip
across his younger brothers and the rest of his family members are making the trip,
and this is a very ugly time. Lucy Max Smith talks about this a lot in her memoir, Biographical
Sketches of the Prophet Joseph Smith. There are no good stories that come out of this. This is a
very ugly and distressing time of Mormon history. So in all of this, right, the Mormons are beginning
their resettlement. Certain opportunists see this as a great place to, well, to utilize the plight
of the Mormons for their own selfish ends. And Brigham Young is one of these people who was,
he was genuinely helping the Mormons, but he was also consolidating his own power,
getting the Mormons on his side. But there were non-Mormons who saw the plight of these religious
refugees fleeing into Illinois as a great opportunity, because Illinois, from the
panic of 1837, the state of Illinois was in a massive slump. So Garland sees a bunch of religious
refugees coming into his state and he sees economic opportunities. They can begin to settle cities
on the banks of the Mississippi in completely unsettled territory or territory that's recently
been freed up because of the Indian Removal Act, and that's going to bring an economic boom to
his state. That's going to look really good for his reelection. Also land speculators jump into
the fray. And there was an area that had been in Iowa territory, right? So we have, you know,
I'm going to pull up a very brief map and show this because I want to show you kind of the
general geography of what we're looking at here. It's going to take me just a second. I'm sorry
about this. Okay, so let me grab my screen share. I am sorry, viewers. Here we go. This is Nauvoo.
And this is where the Mormons begin settling. This is the Mississippi River. Here is Nauvoo,
right? So if we zoom out a little bit, right? We have where the Mormons initially landed
was in Quincy, right? Here is Quincy. Nauvoo is eventually where they will settle. But here is
the little town of Quincy. They came up from, from Fayette and from Booneville, from all of these
cities here in Missouri. And they came up all the way north and across the Mississippi River,
right here at Quincy, Illinois. So this town is a non-Mormon settlement, and they are overrun by
thousands of Mormon refugees. But what we have across the river is the Iowa territory. And this
is not a state yet. This is just the Iowa territory, right? Illinois, at this time, Chicago was,
was growing. Chicago had about 3,000 residents. It was not quite a burgeoning industrialized city.
Quite yet, it was in the process of that. But Iowa was still a territory.
Mississippi was about 20,000. Sorry, need me to go back? So this is Iowa. This is a territory at
this point, right? And in this space right along here, the Mississippi River in Iowa was what was
known as the half-breed tract. Yes, half-breed tract. It's an incredibly racist name for a plot
of land. But essentially what it was, was an area that was opened up because of the Indian
Removal Act, that the governor, that the government had land that they were selling to people. And
this land was initially designated as land that was paid out to veterans. So you would fight in
the Black Hawk War or the War of 1812, and you would get 100 acres on this half-breed tract.
Well, a court ruling in 1836 basically opened up that whole area for land speculators to go in,
buy up the deeds from the original veterans who were granted the land and sell it. So they would,
you know, buy 100 acres from 10 different veterans and then consolidate all that property into one
deed and then sell that entire deed of, you know, 500 acres. So these, and there were entire
companies, including the New York Land Company, I believe, there were a couple of companies
that traded in all of this land. So we get all of this territory that's opened up and we get
Joseph Smith and the Mormons who are just so very destitute in Quincy. And the Quincy,
the city of Quincy was a small city and they now have a massive refugee crisis on their hands
that's larger than even the number of citizens who are living there before the Mormons got there.
So the Quincy citizens are like, hey Mormons, we love you. You're awesome. Thanks for doing all
this work. And thanks for helping us and thanks for building all of these buildings for yourself
and for us. Let's get you your own place. We need you to move out of the basement. All right.
Fortunate kindly Illinois gentlemen have deeds for them.
Yeah, that's right. That's right. So this introduces all of the land speculators are like,
hey, holy crap. It really sucks. Yeah, I mean, all these people are sick and dying. They don't
have enough food to survive. They're eating less than, you know, like, you know, the prisoners
in Auschwitz were every day, like they they're incredibly destitute. I can make a lot of money
here off these poor people. So we have Isaac Gallant, and this guy, Mr. White, and a few other
people who are, you know, landowners in this area, who are like, hey, bring them young.
I got a fancy plot of land. Why don't you come have a meeting with me. So while Brigham Young is
handling all of the affairs of the Mormons settling and this Mormon exodus, he's also
meeting with all these land speculators and determining plots that the Mormons should buy
on credit. And all of these these land speculators are like, hey, just sign the piece of paper,
start settling and we'll deal with the finances later. It'll be fine. It's all good. Yep. So
Joseph Smith is also still in the Rudy Jail getting letters, all of these letters of like, hey,
what are we going to do? Where are we going to settle? How are we going to handle all this? We
don't have any money. What do we do with all this? And Joseph was basically like, don't do
anything until I can get there. Which is bonkers to say because he's facing charges of treason
and murder and arson. There's nothing guaranteeing that he's going to get out at any time. He's
probably going to be sentenced to the gallows for this. And you got to admit, it would be crazy for
him to get out of that mess. How does he get out of that crazy mess? Well, with the help of his
good friend, General Donovan, Alexander Donovan. We said four months later of him being in jail.
Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So in April of 1839, Alexander Donovan was able to negotiate a transfer
of venue. Wait, wait, wait. Stop. I got to stop you here because you're giving the back store.
You're burying the lead. What happened was he has a miraculous jailbreak.
Yeah. Okay. That's it. Yeah. The guard who was guarding him got drunk one night and they're all
able to slip away and join a caravan. Don't get away. Not quite. Not quite. Not quite. Not quite.
Okay. So Alexander Donovan, probably with the understanding that an escape attempt is being
plotted here, negotiates a change of venue to Boone County instead of Ray County. And during the journey
of transferring the prisoners, probably with the understanding that there's an escape attempt
being plotted, negotiates a transfer of venue from Ray County to Boone County. And during the transfer
of the prisoners, Joseph Smith talks sweet on one of the guards and says, hey, I got 500 bucks
and two barrels of whiskey if you let us go. And the guy was like, okay. And lets them all go and
they all flee. Now notably, there's a disconnect because there's the government of Missouri and
then there are the citizens. The government of Missouri had made mistake after mistake after
mistake, especially at the hands of Lilburn Boggs, right? He'd botched this handling of all of this.
But the Missouri citizens, they hated the Mormons. They wanted to be done and over with the Mormon
problem. Granted, the Mormons had been removed from their state. It was in the process of happening
at this time. But they wanted to see Joseph Smith burn. They wanted to see justice served.
So you got one hand, they want a hanging trial. The other one just wants to get them out of there.
But I just missed what you said there, David. Oh, it's amazing. Wonderful fortuitous timing that
he managed to escape just at a time when it was good for the government and for him.
I guess it was a divine miracle. Yeah, divine. Yeah, whiskies bring about many miracles.
But it's notable that the Missouri citizens took vengeance on the guards. William Bowman,
he was dragged by his hair across the town square and Sheriff Morgan was dragged behind a horse
by an iron bar and later died from his injuries. So the Missouri citizens wanted vengeance to be
served on the prisoners and the dudes who let him go became the victims of vigilante justice.
Right? Yeah. Yeah.
But such are such things that these miracles are made of is is a little greed, bad timing and bad
planning. But I'm thinking out your not quite thinking out the all the way through. Yeah. Yeah.
So I know we only got a couple minutes left. So let's let's wrap together a couple of story
threads here and set us on the path for the next next time we get together here. Right. So
Joseph Smith escapes from from jail along with his buddies. He gets to Quincy and he sees the
state of the Mormons. Sickness is ravaging the communities. He gets. Okay. So I want to wrap
together a few threads to kind of tie everything together today and set us on the path for the
next time we get together. Joseph Smith gets out of out of Liberty jail along with all of his
his co-leaders. The rest of the leadership was able to escape or, you know, get rits of habeas
corpus granted or whatever. And by by July of 1839, all of the leadership is out of Missouri and
in Quincy. But Joe gets there in April of 1839 and he sees the Mormons are screwed. They are sick.
They are starving. They don't have any land. It is April and people don't even have land to begin
planting crops, let alone have, you know, crops to like the economics of wartime really come into
play here. Right. Like you if you're a leader of a few thousand people, you got to feed them all.
So a lot of people are seeing that Joseph Smith's responsible for all of this. Right.
And the Mormons as a people are also collectively very deeply in debt to the state of Missouri,
because they were on the hook for all of the the the the costs of the Missouri militia being out
there and having to fight them. Right. Somebody was going to bear the expenses for all of those
militias and that fell on the Mormons. So they're not moving out with any property. They're not
they don't have any equity to begin with. Most of the land that they settled on and improved
for the past five years was now just absorbed by the state
for committing treason. Most of the land that they and most of the land that they had settled,
you know, over the past five years from 1833 to 1838 was just absorbed into the state of Missouri.
Graces of the citizens of Illinois to help them hopefully begin a settlement. And now they are
open to all sorts of opportunists and land speculators who are looking to make a quick buck
off of these people who are in the throes of suffering that Joe now has to figure out how to
feed them all how to settle them all and what to do to get his people on the path towards
surviving but not only surviving but thriving. So good things happening to the young spunky Mormons.
Good things are coming. Good things are coming. Joseph Smith. He once he gets to Quincy, he starts
meeting with a bunch of the land speculators and just signing contracts. Just any piece of paper
somebody will throw in front of him. He'll sign it just to get his people. He'll deal with the
finances later. It doesn't matter as long as the people have plots of land to plant crops and to
be able to survive the very next winter. He's going forward with it.
And what could possibly go wrong? No, no, no. There's a couple more points before we get to
what could go wrong. He also takes Brigham Young and all of his apostles, his remaining loyal
apostles and he says, guys, we need new members. We need a whole bunch of new Mormons that are
going to bring in new tithing money so we can pay for all the land contracts that I'm signing.
But we got a real bad reputation here in America, so we're sending you all to Europe.
Send them all to Europe. And to alleviate the immediate money problems,
Joseph Smith gathers together hundreds of Mormons who all file affidavits and he collects all of
that information and including himself and his brother Hiram. They all file affidavits that are
listed out, itemized charges to the federal government asking for $1.2 million in a government
bailout in 1800s money, which is like $38 million today, right in 2020 money. And he says, I'm going
to DC to meet with the president. Okay, yeah, there's no way you can't even keep talking. You
gotta just miss goes to Washington. Okay, this is crazy. So you guys hear this, this is definitely
getting every time you think, yep, yep, it's over. It's over. Boom, something happens. And
here we are again. Who knows what kind of ending will come of this. I mean, for me,
as a recovering addict, for example, I'd have my run, I'd get a year in being high on drugs,
and then boom, I get a charge or something happens. And then, all right, I get clean for a while. I
learned my lesson. I'm going to stay clean and walk to straight and narrow. And then next year,
yeah, it's worse the next time I relapse, right? And then it's like, oh, crap, I did worse this time.
This seems to be the pattern of Joseph Smith. It just gets worse and worse to get themselves
out of the trouble more and more. And so we are going to be seeing some crazy stuff. If you're
watching this, and you like this, of course, like the video, but go down in the description,
help David Fitzgerald, help Bryce Blankenagle, the naked Mormonism podcast, the, the heretics guide
to Mormonism really, or no, the heretics guide and early Mormonism isn't, am I getting this wrong?
Yeah, close. The complete heretics guide to Western religion.
There you go. Book one, the Mormons. The Mormons. And this is something that Bryce
read of yours years ago. And, you know, coming out of Mormonism, and here he is with his own
podcast, going into this stuff in detail as well, using your book, of course, and many other sources
as well. So the students are past the master. Bryce, go ahead, brother. That means a lot to
hear from you, David. Thank you. I want to just let viewers know, right? We have now gotten through
the somewhat entertaining portion of Mormon history. Where we started the New York era,
that was the boring stuff. The Courland era is like the fun, campy, wacky, experimental era.
The Missouri era is the militant like, oh, this, this shit's for real era of Mormon history.
We're, we're beginning to break into the Navu era. And as a quick point of information, and Derek,
you're going to have to be pretty judicious on this, because it's going to get a lot harder to
rein us in going forward. On my podcast, I episodes one through 50 cover New York to Missouri. They
cover that entire, you know, like 30, 33 year period. Episodes 51 to 224 cover Navu, right?
Because it gets so much more complicated, so much more vast, so much more intense,
and no longer are we just playing around with leaderships of the, you know, members of the
leadership. We're playing with like governors of the state and the president of the United States,
and nationally syndicated newspaper agencies. We're talking about when we break into Navu,
that's when Mormonism becomes a facet of American history and religious history
that has worldwide implications. So all I can say is Derek, good luck keeping us on track
in the Navu era. On the plus side, this is also the juiciest, sexiest period of Mormon history.
Sexy violence, violent sex, everything happens once we get to the Navu area. So stay tuned.
Everything we love about Mormonism is coming to full fruition.
Ladies and gentlemen, you heard it from the horse's mouth. I can't wait to see what comes of this.
I hope you guys say your prayers to whoever the God you look at for me, because I'm going to need
your help and really move these guys in and keep them on track. I really do appreciate you guys
tuning in and thank you guys for unloading your information, this knowledge. This is such information
that I think anyone who's ever been religious should know. I know this is educating, entertaining,
and it's only going to get better, crazier, more bloodshed, more marriages from one man and many
women and all sorts of crazy stuff's coming. So stay tuned and go check out the description.
And if you've forgotten already, I hope you stop forgetting. How could you? We are MythVision.
