Welcome back to Myth Fish and Podcast.
What was Judaism like in the time of Jesus?
Today I have Professor Yonatan Adler joining me
who has studied not only a lot of the textual data
that many scholars have already kind of uncovered,
but you've taken an archeological approach
that I find fascinating.
Your book on the origins of Judaism, let me get that up,
but tell us why did you write that book?
And I'm sure we're gonna cover some of the information
as to why this book is important
and maybe even Judaism in the time of Jesus.
Yeah, so my interest is in Judaism.
And I particularly am interested in Judaism
as a system of practices,
practices which are based on the Torah.
The Torah is a system of law
which is in and of itself based on the Pentateuch
as its textual base.
So I'm really interested in looking at this system
of practices, what people were actually doing across time.
And you mentioned that I focus on archeological,
finds it in addition to texts.
What's wonderful about archeology is that it allows us
to see what people are actually doing, right?
Archeology is a wonderful window
onto actual human practices in the past.
So whereas texts are often idealizing, right?
The authors of the texts want us to think certain things.
Archeology is far more objective, I would say,
in that the people that left over
their material remains 2000 years ago
had no intention that we would find them 2000 years later,
right?
The authors of the texts wanted people to be reading them
probably for quite some time
and they wanted us to read very specific things.
But archeological finds are, they're just there, right?
They weren't put there for any ideological
or religious reasons.
So they're far more, I would say objective
in terms of the data that they provide us.
Another safe way of putting it and just using one example,
is there propaganda in the Bible?
And most of the scholars I have on don't even bat an eye
at that, they go, yes, of course there's propaganda.
But is there-
Any text that you have is going to be propaganda, right?
If a person sits down to write a text,
the person puts in the effort to write a text,
they want to get across certain points.
So it's not even a negative thing to say
that a text is giving over a point of view.
I mean, that's the purpose of a text.
As I said, archeology is not,
the archeological finds themselves, the raw data
have no intention of giving across any kind of point of view
whether religious, ideological, political or anything,
they're just there.
Got it.
It's just the interpretation of understanding
maybe it's purpose, function, et cetera
might be propagandistic as well.
And a lot of what you've written, I mean,
what sparked the interest of this episode originally
was that I was reading on your academia page
and just to give a fair visual of that
for those who want to check it out, go follow
Dr. or Professor Yonatan Adler on academia.
I saw the one where you say
the Roman imperial cult meets Judaism.
And I said, ooh, yeah, the imperial cult meets Judaism,
the steppe pools adjacent to the Augustium
at Samaria Sebaste.
And that was an interesting article.
I was like, ooh, let me go with that.
But then we just last second said, why don't we go live?
Let's have some fun.
So before we get a deep dive into Judaism
and the time of Jesus,
I want to obviously touch on the Hellenistic world,
what's going on with the imperial cult,
all of that stuff along the way.
But can you tell us what's going on
with the Yale books right now and your book,
the cell offer you're talking about?
Sure.
So my book, The Origins of Judaism came out
back in November.
In this book, I look at when Judaism begins.
So if we think of Judaism as,
I would say Judaism is, for my purposes,
is the Judean or the Jewish way of life governed by Torah law.
So all these things that we think of as Torah law,
Sabbath prohibitions, circumcision,
the various holidays, things like the Mizuzan,
Tfilin, the dietary laws,
there's just a myriad of laws that are involved
when we talk about the Torah.
And Jews, for much of Jewish history,
have been practicing these practices and prohibitions.
The question that I ask in this book is,
when did this all begin?
So I take the first century of the common era
as the baseline.
This is a period of time which, as we will discuss today,
was a period when people were keeping these laws.
And then I ask, okay, how far back in time does this go?
Were Jews keeping the laws of the Torah
in the first century before the common era?
Were they keeping it in the second century,
in the third century, and so on and so forth?
The bottom line of the book
is that there actually is no evidence
for Jewish observance of the Torah
any time prior to the second century
before the common era.
So the Hasmonean period is the earliest period in time
that we have actual evidence
for Jews keeping the laws of the Torah,
which, in the end of the day,
is not that far in time
before the time of Jesus, before the first century.
You know, I don't wanna get lost
in the elephant team papyri or whatnot,
but there's some strange,
if we were looking at our Bible, right,
and then we went and looked at this,
this community does not look anything
like the practices you would expect.
Judaism formulated from your text,
especially it seems even almost,
like they have several deities, it's not just one.
And so you're already pointing out,
and this doesn't prove, like you said,
lack of evidence doesn't prove there wasn't something,
but it doesn't, you can't say there was
just because your book or text might say,
and I find what you're doing quite fascinating
because it's around this period,
Hellenism's on the scene.
And we're gonna be getting into like first century Judaism,
but do you wanna edge us up into the first century?
But so-
I think that we need to think of the emergence of Judaism,
the emergence of widespread practice
of the laws of the Torah,
as being born out of the crucible of Hellenism, right?
So oftentimes scholars think,
and I would say this is axiomatic thinking,
that Judaism emerges in the Persian period.
So we're talking about the time of Ezra and Nehemiah.
This is, these are the latest books of the Hebrew Bible.
And the standard understanding among scholars
is that it's at this time,
the early second temple period,
that Jews begin to keep the laws of the Torah
on a wide scale basis.
And that's, there's simply no evidence for that, right?
As you mentioned, the finds from Elephantine,
which date to the fifth century before the common era.
So this is, around the time of,
the supposed time of Ezra and Nehemiah,
we simply don't have any evidence
that people even know of the laws of the Torah,
let alone that they're keeping them
on any wide scale basis.
And as I said, the earliest evidence we have
is the second century before the common era.
And this is deep into the Hellenistic period.
So this is really the earliest evidence that we have both,
whether we're speaking about archeological evidence
or textual evidence,
the earliest evidence is the second century.
And this is around the time the Hasmonean,
the whole Hasmonean situation, their dynasty.
And you mentioned that it's birthed
out of this Hellenistic bubble.
And there seems to be a reactionary response
and a collaborative response.
It seems that Jewish people in general
were either for or against,
I don't know if there might be people in the middle ground,
but like no matter what,
the ones that are reacting to it
are still having to engage with it.
And I was talking to,
I think it was my good friend James Tabor
talking about the Essenes
and the communities that we found with the Kumran and whatnot,
and how they had Hellenistic tendencies,
even the most sectarian types were,
I guess you'd say influenced,
even if they were reacting to,
in many ways, to Hellenism.
You know, I think it's important to understand
that any new kind of religious ideas
which are developing at this time
are developing on the background of the Hellenistic world.
I mean, it would be like today
if we had new ideas, new ideologies,
new religious groups for that matter,
coming about, let's say, in the United States
or even elsewhere in the Western world,
you know, Western, I would even say American ideals,
would be the background to anything
that develops at this time,
even if they don't exactly fit in with the American ideals,
it's in some way reacting to it
or developing out of it.
There's some kind of dialogue going on
with Hellenism, it couldn't be otherwise.
I love that.
It just, there's been that kind of,
I don't know, even in scholarship for,
I don't know, a few centuries,
there's been kind of like this dichotomy
to completely separate the two.
And I'm hoping that we can kind of get into that
as we're diving into Jesus' day.
So you have the Hasmoneans,
and obviously you have like the book of Daniel,
which seems to kind of reflect what's going on
with Antiochus, Epiphanes,
and this situation in the second century BCE onward.
You've got all this Dead Sea Scroll literature,
you've got Jewish Judaism happening,
and it's spreading pretty wide.
I've got a map of yours that you had in your article
where it shows little black dots
of like every single one of these ritual bathing pools
where there's steps down into the pool.
When I was over there, I went on Masada,
James Tabor took us on the tour.
There's so many of these,
every little site we'd go to,
every little synagogue with its zodiacal wheel,
and the whole night,
they had all these ritual bathing pools.
It's really, really cool to see.
Yeah, so one of the things I think
which is really important to understand,
if we'd like to dive into the topic here
of Judaism in the time of Jesus.
So I think oftentimes both believers and scholars
tend to think of religion in terms of beliefs.
We tend to think of what do we believe?
And particularly in terms of Christianity,
the beliefs are super important, right?
And Christians have been fighting with each other
and killing each other for centuries
and we're getting to millennia now
over issues of belief, right?
Exactly how do we understand what it is that we believe?
But practice is oftentimes ignored
and when we're speaking about Judaism,
practice is incredibly, incredibly important.
I would even venture to say
even more important than beliefs.
What people are doing, right?
How they are practicing their Judaism
is incredibly, incredibly important.
It's been said that in terms of the sects,
so the Pharisees and the Sadducees, the Essenes and so on,
the reason why they split was likely
not because of beliefs so much as practices,
the interpretations of how we need to be practicing
the various laws, the Sabbath laws.
What does it mean that one is not allowed to do work
on the Sabbath, right?
What does this work?
So because the Pentateuch is so opaque
and it doesn't say what work is,
humans have to interpret what this means.
And once you put a couple of Jews in a synagogue
to argue about what it is that we mean by work,
you're going to have lots of different opinions
about what exactly that means.
The old joke goes that you put two Jews into a room
and you'll have three opinions.
Right.
And I could very easily imagine
a group of Jews coming together on a Saturday,
sitting down in a synagogue,
somebody takes out a Torah scroll, begins to read it,
and it wasn't simply a ritual reading of the Torah,
it was also an interpretation.
So you just said that you were in the Masada synagogue.
You know how it's set up like a,
almost like a theater where you have
Yes.
Feeds sitting around.
So it's set up that way on purpose.
It's not an accident.
The idea is that the people can sit around on these benches.
They all face to the middle of the synagogue
and you would have had somebody standing in the middle
with a Torah scroll, reading from the Torah.
But then afterwards interpreting what it is that he read.
And then the people sitting in the synagogue
could discuss with one another, you know, what is this?
And how should we understand this?
This is what people were doing at this time.
This is how Judaism developed.
And this is what we read about in the New Testament stories,
in the gospel stories about Jesus visiting a synagogue
in Acts.
We have Paul and his companions visiting synagogues
and having debates about various scriptures.
This is what was going on.
This is what the sects were fighting about.
This is the dynamism of Judaism in the first century.
Going back to that article,
very interesting how you dive into the scholars
who are trying to understand this particular Samaria,
Sebasté location where some of these scholars
that are archeologists are looking at it.
I'm just gonna call them scholars for the sake of brevity.
They're looking at it and going,
this thing is an Augusteum completely through and through.
It's purely Roman imperial cult.
And then someone comes along and goes,
hey, actually I think this might have been a Herodian
through and through thing just for Herod.
And there may be these Jewish ritual baths,
but then a lot of them wanna date them later
and there's not so much stuff that they can be,
you can't really look at some of their critique of why
they haven't put a ton of information
in how they're dating this material
so it can't be critically analyzed.
And then it's like the end of it was like,
why not be Herodian date?
Why not have these pools be Jewish ritual baths
and yet have the Roman imperial court
literally right across a door from you across?
What's the problem?
Herod seems, and you quote Josephus to point this out,
to be kind of trying to negotiate a duality in his practice
and how he's being seen by Jews
and how he's being seen by the emperor in Rome.
And he's trying to do both.
And what I thought about why I read this article
and I wanted your thoughts, Dr. Adler,
was Josephus loved to point the finger at Herod.
But here is this man who has the name Flavius.
I can't imagine he wasn't negotiating as well.
What are your thoughts?
You know, absolutely.
Again, so we were talking about Hellenism.
We were talking about the earliest emergence of Judaism
in the Hellenistic period.
Once we get to the late first century BC,
the time of Herod, the first century CE,
the time of Josephus, we are already in the Roman period,
which is essentially a continuation
of the Hellenistic period.
So we now have the Roman Empire, which is dominant,
but the Romans had essentially inherited Greek culture
to a very large extent.
And when we speak of Judaism in the first century
of the coming year, the late first century BCE,
the first century CE, again, we're dealing with Judaism,
which has the Greco-Roman culture as its background.
Now, I'd like to stress that for Jews living
in the first century, there's no doubt
that the Torah was incredibly important.
And their culture was based on following
the laws of the Torah.
There's no doubt about that.
This was, it's hard to say, a universal practice,
but it is extraordinarily widespread.
And when you say Torah, you mean first five books, correct?
Well, when I speak of the Torah, so let's order here.
So I'll use the term Pentateuch
when I speak of the first five books.
Oftentimes that's called the Torah.
When I speak of the Torah though,
what I actually mean is a system of law,
which is based on the Pentateuch,
but it's much more complex and dynamic than the Pentateuch.
So the Pentateuch is a, I would say by this time,
a set text, more or less a set text.
A system of law is much more dynamic than a text, right?
So the system of law is that text as the basis,
but then being interpreted, right?
So what I described to you with the synagogue
where you have somebody reading the text of the Pentateuch,
but then interpreting that text
and then people arguing about it.
So dynamic understanding of the term Torah
that I mean when I use this term.
This system of law, this dynamic live system of law,
which is characterizes Jewish culture at this time.
So this is what was characterizing Jewish culture
on the background of the Greco-Roman culture,
larger culture surrounding.
So you brought up the issue of the pools that were found.
And I'm gonna share the screen while you do that too,
if that's okay, just to show people some images.
Absolutely, okay.
So at this time, we have throughout the Southern Levant,
throughout Judea, Judea, Galilee, Pariah,
the east of the Jordan River,
we have many, many hundreds of immersion pools
that were uncovered,
essentially everywhere where we have a Jewish site,
we've uncovered immersion pools.
So you'll have basically for every household,
there's going to be an immersion pool.
These pools were used for ritual immersion
to fulfill the Pentateuchal call for bathing
to remove ritual impurity, right?
So throughout Leviticus,
we have calls to bathe, you should bathe your flesh,
launder your clothes to remove
all the various kinds of ritual impurity,
like semen impurity, menstrual impurity, corpse impurity.
There's just this long list of different kinds of impurities
that there are, which are everyday impurities.
And in order to remain pure in one's day-to-day life,
one would have needed to bathe on a regular basis.
Once we reached this period of time,
the first century of the common era,
this was understood to mean bathing full body immersion
in a pool.
And this is what we see right in front of us here.
This is actually a very cool pool.
This is from Magdala.
Most of the pools that we've found archeologically are dry.
They don't have any water in them
because they were filled with rainwater.
The pools in Magdala are filled with water until today
because they were originally filled
and still are filled with groundwater.
So the water comes from under the ground
and fills up the pool.
The pools at Magdala are unique in this way
that they're actually still filled with water until today.
I saw those, by the way,
when we were there just for our audience to know.
Did you immerse in them?
No, and you know what's funny?
I just, I thought about this
because I was a Presbyterian before I left Christianity
and they like bend over backwards to make sprinkling
the thing and of course infant baptism as sprinkling.
And so when I got rebaptized,
I can't tell you how many times I've been baptized
in different sects of Christianity,
they sprinkled and they would do everything they could
to make it about the sprinkling of the water
and you don't need to immerse.
And I'm like, now I'm realizing
Professor Adler is making a strong case
that the Baptist are on the right track.
Well, I mean, certainly baptism began that way, right?
Baptizo in Greek means immersion, right?
So actually if you, the English translations
of New Testament texts, oftentimes mistranslate
the word baptizo as to wash or bathe,
the correct translation is to immerse.
So baptism, the original baptism was immersion.
Certainly this is what Jews were doing,
that it was full body immersion in these pools.
So this is something which we find everywhere.
And when we find these pools, it's clear evidence
that people are keeping the laws of the Torah.
And just look at the map, yeah.
Tell us about the map.
Each of these dots here is a site
where at least one immersion pool was found.
So each dot is not an immersion pool.
Each dot is a site where one or dozens or hundreds
of immersion pools were found.
They are everywhere, right?
People are keeping these rules on a daily basis.
And this is significant.
I mean, if you think about it, right?
What does this mean to have an immersion pool
in your home or in your courtyard?
It means that you are waking up in the morning
if you happen to have had sex the night before
or that morning, you're going to immerse in this water.
And it's not a spa that you're immersing in, right?
This is not a swimming pool, it's not a jacuzzi.
This is going to be cold water.
Imagine you wake up January morning,
it's cold outside, the water is cold.
Probably not very clean, but if you are impure
you are going to immerse yourself in this water
in order to purify yourself.
So this is something which really took up
a lot of mental space for people who were,
not only thinking all the time about their purity status,
they're also thinking about the purity status
of their household members,
people they meet in the marketplace.
This is something which really, really takes up
a lot of time and effort, but people were doing it.
People were really doing it.
And I think it's a testament to the degree
to which people were committed
to keeping the laws of the Torah, right?
Purity is, I would say, is one example of Torah observance.
And when you bring up the issue of Samaria,
so let's just explain to the readers
what we're talking about here.
The Samaria or Sebasté as it was called in Greek at this time.
So we're talking about the late first century
before the common era.
This was a non-Jewish city.
The people living in this city were pagans,
Greek-speaking pagans.
And what we have at the center of the site,
or the Acropolis of the site,
is a temple built for the imperial cult.
So this is a temple, it's called an Ogostiam,
a temple for the Cult of Augustus,
built by Herod in honor of Herod
for the imperial cult of, excuse me, for Augustus,
for the imperial cult of Augustus.
And this is, you know, not particularly surprising.
Drosivus tells us that Herod had built a temple
for Augustus, both in Samaria and in Caesarea on the sea.
And this is what archeologists have uncovered.
This is a dig already in the early 1900s,
conducted by Harvard University.
And here we can see number A,
where letter A is the Ogostiam, it's the temple itself.
The article that I published on this particular Ogostiam
relates to the stepped pools
that were found surrounding this temple.
So each of these SPs, SP stands for stepped pool,
SP one through eight surrounding this Ogostiam,
these stepped pools look exactly like the pool
that we had just looked at from Magdala.
These are Jewish ritual baths.
And the question is, what on earth
are Jewish ritual baths doing, first of all, in Samaria?
This is not a Jewish city.
And second of all, what are they doing
directly adjacent to a temple for Augustus?
This is very unusual.
And the suggestion that I made is that
we know that the temple was built by Herod,
Herod the Great, late first century BCE.
The buildings surrounding this temple,
Professor Dan Barag, the late Dan Barag
died in a couple of years ago.
He had made the suggestion already in the early 90s
that these buildings were constructed
as a palace for King Herod.
So we know of several palaces that King Herod had built
in Jericho, Masada, Caesarea, Herodium and elsewhere.
Barag suggested that these structures
were also a palace for Herod.
But he didn't mention the stepped pools.
And the suggestion that I made in this article
is that the stepped pools are in fact ritual baths.
They are in fact ritual immersion pools.
And we know that in every one of Herod's palaces,
there are several Jewish ritual baths, right?
Herod was building ritual baths in his palaces
because Herod was a Jewish king.
He was Jewish, his entourage was Jewish,
and it's not surprising that he had
these ritual baths in his palaces.
Just like every Jew at this time had
ritual baths in their homes, Herod had in his palaces.
Now is the ritual bath a distinctly Jewish thing?
And the reason I asked is,
are you gonna get to that?
No, absolutely, the answer is yes.
The answer is a clear yes.
We do not have any such installations elsewhere
in the Roman world.
This is something which is unique to Jews,
even in the Southern Levant, right, in Judea,
where we have areas that are not Jewish, right?
Samaria is an example.
We have several cities which are not Jewish cities.
The entire Western Galilee, for example, is not Jewish.
Eastern Galilee is Jewish, Western Galilee is not.
The cities of the Decapolis are not Jewish,
so Bichon as an example of a non-Jewish city.
We never find these stepped pools in the non-Jewish areas.
We only find them in Jewish areas.
So I guess just to make a point,
I'm reading Suetonius, Lives of the Seas,
there's been reading it for a long time.
I really enjoy the whole divine birth,
poor tents and stuff, and there's that part
where the serpent comes up to his mother and slides away,
and then 10 months later, he's born,
and they're like, oh, he's the son of Apollo,
but it says on weight, all of a sudden,
a serpent slid up to her, then quickly went away.
On waking, she purified herself as she would
after sleeping with her husband.
Of course, it doesn't mention a pool.
I suspect that the non-Jewish people,
their purification process did not require a step pool,
but they still go to washing bathhouses.
Yeah, so there's definitely notions of ritual purity
and ritual impurity in the ancient world.
There's no doubt about that,
but we don't find ritual immersion,
full body immersion at this time anywhere else.
So these are distinctly Jewish pools.
We don't, as I said, we don't find them in non-Jewish sites.
So that just begs the question, okay,
so why are we finding these pools in Samaria,
not only in Samaria, they're all in the same area
of the site, directly adjacent to the Augustam.
What's going on there?
If we could imagine something, anything more pagan
than a temple to the divine Augustus,
it's hard to imagine anything more pagan than that.
And yet we find these Jewish ritual baths.
So the suggestion that I made is that in fact,
what we have here are ritual baths
which were built as part of Herod's palace.
Again, we find these in all of Herod's palaces.
And it's the same Herod who built a temple for Augustus
who has these ritual baths.
Now, I can't guarantee that Herod himself
ever used these pools, right?
I don't know how pious Herod himself was
in terms of, you know, ritually bathing,
but clearly it was important to him,
to his underage, to his family members.
To my mind, the fact that we have these pools,
not only do we find them everywhere where we have Jews,
but we even find them adjacent to a pagan temple.
To my mind, this is really an indication
of how widespread Torah observance was at this time.
It was just so embedded in Jewish life at this time
that we even find it in a place like Samaria,
adjacent to the Augustan.
I wanted to ask for our audience that may not know
what goes on in an imperial cult temple.
Can you tell us how non-Judaism, what is happening?
Are they worshiping Augustus?
Yeah, so we have an altar.
We have a statue of Augustus.
The head hasn't survived, so we have the torso,
but presumably this is the statue of Augustus
that was discovered.
And, you know, this is pagan worship.
This is worship of a deity other than the Jewish deity.
So there's no doubt that Jews would have had issue
with a temple dedicated to the divine Augustus.
It's the antithesis of Torah observance.
And yet, clearly Herod had some kind of political need
that why he had to build this temple for Augustus.
I doubt that Herod had some kind of pious reason
why he felt that he just needed
to worship this divine Augustus.
In the life of Augustus, of course,
this was clearly some kind of political reason
why he felt the need to build these temples.
So I wouldn't say that the temples to Augustus
that Herod built are an indication
that Herod was a pious emperor worship room, right?
He's clearly, he has his own personal political incentives
here, but what I would say is despite the fact
that he's building this pagan temple,
he still has his Jewish ritual baths
that he's building directly adjacent to the temple.
You know, I can imagine the people that are immersing
in these pools are smelling the sacrifices,
the smoke of the sacrifices.
It's so close.
You know, as these sacrifices are being sacrificed
to the divine Augustus,
they're immersing in these Jewish pools,
which is, it's quite unusual.
And I would say it's quite telling
of how important the observance of Torah
was amongst Jews at this time.
Would you maybe go so far as to say
that the fact that the presence of these pools
are so close to the imperial cult temple worship,
sacrifice, you know, their cultic rituals and all,
is also kind of a memoriam of their willingness
to remain faithful to their faith,
but also be cooperative with the surrounding practices
that they themselves don't practice.
I'll give you an example in contemporary times,
Christians are out to convert the world.
That's like a mission.
It's fundamental in their whole system often
to like make everyone become like them.
I don't find that to be the case with Jews
and their particular ritualistic approach.
So they may go, that's yours and this is ours.
And we're content with ours.
You do your thing, we'll do our thing.
Do you think that they were in somewhat a cooperation
of like, hey, we respect you.
You do your thing, you respect us kind of thing,
or are you saying this is more of a political move,
but he had to put these bath pools here
because maybe his followers or his family
were staying there or something?
I don't know.
Okay, so hold on.
What you said about Jews not missionizing
is certainly true today.
It's been true for 2000 years.
It wasn't true in the beginning.
So to go back only 100 years before the time of Herod,
we have the Hezmenian rulers, John Herkenes I
and his son, Aristobelus I,
who are going out there conquering neighboring peoples
and converting them, right?
Enforcing the rules of the Torah
on the Dumaeans to the South, the Eturians to the North.
When the Jews at this time had the power
to conquer surrounding peoples,
they certainly knew how to enforce the laws of the Torah
on these peoples and to incorporate them
into the Judean polity.
So this is only 100 years before the time of Herod.
Once we get to the time of Herod,
it's the Romans that are calling the shots
and Jews are no longer going out there conquering
surrounding peoples and converting them to Judaism.
So that's changed by this time.
But to your question,
Herod certainly had his reasons for building these temples.
Like I said, I don't know if Herod himself
was particularly pious in terms of keeping the laws
of the Torah.
We simply don't know.
We know that in his palaces, we have these pools.
We also have a lack of figural art in Herod's palaces.
Herod's coins lack figural art.
All of this could be an indication
that Herod himself was intent
on keeping the laws of the Torah.
But it could also be that Herod didn't want to infuriate
the peoples that he was ruling over.
He didn't want to have a rebellion on his hands
if he were to, for example, put figural art,
the emperor, the image of the emperor
on the coins that he was moving.
So he was very careful about that,
not to piss off the Jews that he was ruling over.
He himself was Jewish,
but we don't know the degree to which he himself,
when nobody was looking, let's say,
would have actually immersed in these pools.
It could be that the pools were simply a way to broadcast
his piety and his association with Judaism,
whether or not he actually on a cold winter day
would have immersed in one of these pools.
We simply don't know.
Okay, to Jesus, we did title this Judaism
in the time of Jesus.
I'm recalling the book, Render and Deceaser
by John Dominic Cross.
And it's quite an interesting book.
I don't know if you've read it or not.
Some of my fans may have, people watching may have.
He really starts with this whole coin.
He thinks it's Tiberius,
because this is when Jesus would have been around.
And he says, do we pay taxes?
They're kind of trying to trick them, right?
Here we are with this.
I would even go so far as everything you just said,
Torah, right?
They're trying to go with the Torah,
like we got to be right with God,
we need to do the right thing.
But there's also this kind of,
I think there's a jab in trying to get rid of his followers
to stop following him.
Because if he outright says, yeah, just pay taxes,
then maybe his followers were saying,
here's this guy coming from a lower class region
that has been probably damaged, I would say, in some way.
And they hope that God's kingdom comes in
and kicks these Romans out, that they stop following him.
The other thing is, is if he says, don't pay taxes,
then he's rebelling and then it could just have
and put to death.
So he cleverly goes, give me one of the coins
and John Dominic Cross and says,
that means he didn't have one.
So he wasn't even carrying a coin
with the emperor's image.
But then the Jews give him the coin, which is telling.
He goes, every little detail kind of is telling in a way,
if you wanna look at it.
And he says, whose image do you see?
And of course, he thinks it's not the Latin version
that it would have been more commonly understood
to be the Greek version.
And it would have had Sebastus with Tiberius
as the one to be worshiped,
pretty much would have said on the coin.
And he's saying, whose image?
Render to Caesar, that which is Caesar,
give him back his images, but give God the worship
because the coin would have said to worship Caesar.
So this kind of friction, Jesus against the imperial status,
maybe even the cult itself, I don't know,
is playing a role throughout the gospels
in some way, shape or form.
What are your thoughts about that
before I maybe throw up something with Paul?
Because Paul throws a curveball in the whole mix,
in my opinion.
Okay, so the question of the imperial cults,
we have to understand the temples that Herod built
were not built in Jewish areas, right?
The Sebastian, as I said, Sebastus, Samaria
is not a Jewish city.
Caesarea on the sea is a mixed city.
It's hard to know how many Jews were living in the city.
There certainly was a Jewish population there.
We know that there was a Jewish synagogue,
at least one there, but Herod didn't build a temple
to Augustus in Jerusalem, right?
That's what happened.
And as I said, the other Herod's coins, right?
Or any of the Jewish rulers ever minted coins
that included an image of the Caesar,
if the coins were meant to be used by Jews.
We do have some coins that were minted
by Herod's successors,
who were ruling in areas outside of Judea, right?
Who were ruling over non-Jewish people.
They did mint coins with figural art
with images of the Caesar.
But any coins that were minted for Jews
did not include images of the Caesar.
Now, if you don't have images of the Caesar,
even on the coins, you know,
there's little doubt that the imperial cult
was any kind of issue for Jews.
Jews were not worshiping the emperor.
That just wasn't a thing.
Okay, so this notion of render and the Caesar and whatnot,
what do you, have you gone into this passage
and really thought about that much
about what you think is happening?
Or do you just agree with what John Dominic Crossens
probably thought?
Well, I haven't read what he said.
So I'm not sure exactly, you know,
what, you know, how he's relating this
to specific coins and so on and so forth.
I would point out, and this is important to note,
in terms of the coins,
Jews were not minting silver coins.
So the silver coins,
and they certainly were using silver coins,
but they weren't minting silver coins.
Herod, for example, did not mint coins from silver.
It's actually not until we get to the first revolt
that Jews begin to mint coins.
And we have from earlier periods,
we have from the Persian period,
the early Hellenistic period,
but once we get to the Haspianian period and onwards,
we don't have silver coins or gold for that matter.
So any silver or gold coins that Jews were using
were coins that were minted
by non-Jewish minting authorities,
and they would have had what they did have
images of the ember,
which is an interesting question of itself.
How, you know, if they had,
if the Jews at this time had such an issue
with using coins that had images,
why were they using silver coins?
And I think this is,
it was simply, there was no other choice, right?
Since they didn't have Jewish coins
made of silver or gold,
you can't have an economy that relies only on bronze coins.
You need to have a silver.
And these coins were actually used in the temple.
So, you know, you had the half Shekel donation
that was being given by every, you know,
Jewish male above a certain age every year.
This is, the Shekel is a weight of silver.
So they, these were silver coins
that were being given to the temple
and they had, they had images on them.
So this was just, you know,
something that had to be done.
I assume, and I haven't delved into this, you know, too deeply,
I assume that this is what we're talking about
when we're talking about coins
that have the image of the Caesar on them.
These are the, probably, you know,
the coins that were circulating at this time.
But these were particularly coins
that were not minted by Jews.
Thank you, thank you.
Paul, what do we do about this guy
who is a Jew, who practices Judaism,
in fact, persecutes according to his own letters,
not just acts, which I'm highly suspicious of them,
kind of narrating, kind of making it into a story,
how much of that's trustworthy,
how much of this is late and agronistic,
very propagandistic.
And I would say, while Paul's letters
are also propagandistic,
it seems like there's more basis to reality
of what's really going on.
I think, I mean, that's trusting the words he's saying,
but he crosses a boundary,
you point out they're willing to go
and convert these people 100 years before the time of Herod,
then Paul is like taking this back
and saying, I'm going to go convert the nations.
I'm going to make them in Christ,
which is this weirdly uniquely new-ish thing
of a crucified savior.
There's so many things to start stepping outside
of what we talk about as Judaism, Torah observance,
when you're talking about what the Jews are doing in general,
that Paul's already doing, that I'm going,
what in the world?
I mean, the New Testament starts to have him
eating the flesh of their God and drinking his blood.
Like, what happened to Judaism at the time of Jesus?
And I thought Jesus was a Jew who practices Judaism.
How can his followers not be doing exactly that?
It seems like they're doing something different.
And so his Jewish followers certainly are doing,
they're doing Judaism.
Jesus himself is doing Judaism.
One of the things that really struck me
as I was writing my book on the origins of Judaism
was that when we look at the Old Testament,
the Hebrew Bible, we don't find Judaism there.
We don't find figures like King David and King Solomon
and Elijah, Elisha, they're not putting on Tfilene.
They're not, when King David builds a palace,
he doesn't put in the Zuzan in his doorposts.
They're not, we don't hear about them observing Sabbath.
We don't hear about them refraining from eating
this or that foods that are prohibited.
We don't find Judaism in the Old Testament.
We do find Judaism in the New Testament.
So one of the things which really struck me
was that with the crucifixion, right?
What day does the crucifixion,
what day of the week does the crucifixion take place?
Well, we call it good Friday, but Friday.
Friday, right?
So that's Erev Shabbat, the day before the Sabbath.
And Jesus is crucified, his body is taken down
the same day before sunset.
And it says that in the Gospel,
I forgot which are the Gospels,
that they rested as the law required, right?
And it was only after the Sabbath
that they were able to get together the spices and so on
that they were necessary for taking care of the burial.
The followers of Jesus kept the Sabbath, right?
And the reason they did is because of course
they kept the Sabbath because that's what you do.
If you're Jewish, you keep the Sabbath.
That's just obvious, right?
That's not a question.
Paul is doing something different.
He's doing something new.
He seems, and this is the direction
that scholars have been heading in recent years.
He seems to be keeping the laws himself, right?
He is a Jew and he keeps the laws of the Torah.
He seems to be interested in other Jews
to continue to keep the laws of the Torah as well.
What he's doing new here is that he's turning to non-Jews,
to Gentiles and saying to them,
you guys don't need to be keeping the laws of the Torah, right?
As long as you have this belief in the Christ,
you don't need to be keeping the laws of the Torah.
So that's this new thing that Paul is bringing to the table,
which we don't see Jesus talking about.
We don't see the disciples of Jesus in his day
speaking about this is something
which comes only later with Paul.
Yeah, Paul's doing some weird stuff sometimes.
And it makes me think he's doing kind of like how Herod
is what we would think of as bending the rules.
He's got a duality in his mind
about being a good faithful Jew
or at least at least perceptionally to the Jewish people
he's trying to perceive as he's keeping law, things like that.
But then he's building pagan temples.
I can't imagine that that would have been okay
in the mind of most devout religious Jews to think,
hold on, you mean to tell me you're literally helping install
another sanctuary where people are gonna worship
this other deity?
No, and so I imagine Paul is kind of bending
in a different way.
He's kind of bringing his teachings towards non-Jews,
but it's almost like he's cooperating to a point
where he starts incorporating some of the practices.
That's why I mentioned the whole eating the flesh,
drinking the blood.
He has that in his own letters already.
So there's this blurry gray line
between what we're calling Judaism at this time
and how far are these people who aren't in Jerusalem?
Cause it's kind of the heart of the whole thing.
Are they like blending some of the practices you think
out there in the diaspora?
And I mean, the diaspora being for those who are watching
outside of Jerusalem,
when you get further from the heart of it all,
are they like practicing a little bit of both?
Are there Jews who are Torah observant
and yet do some pagan practices or rituals and vice versa?
We see these God fears.
We know we have documentation,
we have archeological writings,
their names on synagogues.
They helped build synagogues,
helping and honoring and worship the God of Israel.
So I'm wondering if it goes both ways, if that makes sense.
Yeah, it's a great question you're asking.
We're dealing with a really interesting time and place
where you have these interactions
between Jews and non-Jews.
When you're in Judea itself, you still have,
you have areas that are certainly non-Jewish.
Jews are interacting with non-Jews with paganism.
To your question, were there Jews
that were engaging in pagan practices,
whether in Judea or elsewhere?
I would say in Judea,
it's hard to imagine that there were many Jews
that were engaged in pagan practices.
Torah observance, as I said, seems to have been quite,
I would say quite close to universal,
as far as we know.
People are taking these rules very seriously.
And the Torah's prohibitions against anything close to idolatry,
what it would regard as idolatry,
I would say were probably being kept
pretty well in Judea itself.
That doesn't mean that we don't have cultural influences.
Of course we have cultural influences.
I would say even an institution like the synagogue
is born out of Hellenistic institutions
like the gymnasium, right?
The synagogue as the ultimate educational institution
for Jews.
This is where Jews would gather together
and learn the laws of the Torah, right?
Where does that come from?
That's born out of a vacuum.
That was born out of the larger Hellenistic Roman world.
So we shouldn't think of Judaism
as being opposed to Greco-Roman culture.
Judaism is born out of this Greco-Roman culture.
Where the Greco-Roman culture comes into direct conflict
with Judaism with the Torah, right?
Then we'll see Jews standing up on their hind legs
and saying, no, we are not going to allow
a statue of Gaius Caligula in the temple.
That we're not gonna allow, right?
Right.
So on the one hand, Judaism is born,
as I said, is born out of this Greco-Roman culture.
And on the other hand,
where that Greco-Roman culture
comes into direct conflict with the Torah,
Jews are not keeping rules.
We shouldn't think of Jews as somehow
being something completely different
from their surroundings.
They are a part of their surroundings,
even in terms of dress.
There's no reason to think that Jews were dressing
in any way different from their non-Jewish surroundings, right?
This is a part, they're speaking the language,
they're speaking Greek, especially in the diaspora.
They're reading Greek, they might've been reading,
we know that certainly in Alexandria, for example,
but probably elsewhere throughout the diaspora,
the Torah that they were reading
was translated into Greek, right?
So it's not as if they're living
in some kind of different world.
They are living in the Greco-Roman world.
But to the degree that they were keeping the laws
of the Torah, and as I said,
this seems to be quite universal,
we would expect that they wouldn't have been,
they wouldn't have been taking part in pagan sacrifice,
for example.
I've got some super chats just so you know,
and I'm definitely gonna get to them.
I wanna say thank you to everybody
for supporting via super chat,
the likes, the shares, checking out Dr. Adler's book
so that he goes, hey, I like this channel,
I wanna come back.
The publishers will be thankful
for that, of course, as well.
And there's a 50% off coupon right now
in the description, and when does that end again?
Ends June 23rd, so we've got 10 days.
It just started today, so you have 10 days
to get that half off.
Go get it while you can at that price, half off.
One more kind of topic I think in covering,
we talked about textual propaganda,
and then there's also probably a lot of the stuff
the coins themselves are kind of a propaganda in a way.
But yeah, the archeological approach
is not to make interpretation
until you study this material and understand when, where,
who, what, when, all those different things.
I'm looking at the New Testament.
We're talking about Judaism, and I kinda wanted to ask you
with what you know about archeology
and what you seem to see,
not only the New Testament talks about,
but other non-New Testament documents,
archeological inscriptions, anything that adds up
to understanding what Judaism was
and how it was being practiced by Jews at large.
I'm looking at the New Testament.
I see a lot of literature in here
that seems like it has antecedents in a non-Jewish world.
Like we see Josephus and Philo do this as well.
They kind of, I'll say Ben stuff
to meet their current contacts.
They have Moses, for example, have an ascension
similar to what Romulus and other Greco-Roman heroes had.
And when I read my scriptures, I'm like, hold on,
Moses died and then God like handled it.
And that was understood, but Josephus and Philo
do unique things where they kind of imitate
the Hellenistic understanding of their world
even into their sacred texts.
So it's touching more than just,
hey, I'm brushing shoulders with Billy the Pagan.
I'm incorporating these influences
even into my most sacred literature,
and it's bending their kind of material to match that.
When I'm looking at the New Testament,
I see Jesus ascend even to L.C. Allison Jr.
who mainly focuses on like Jewish context
to New Testament stuff.
I said, look, Richard C. Miller,
I've got some really good friends who've written
about this like the Romulus connection
to what we're seeing with Jesus ascension in Acts.
Romulus has like an ascension into the clouds.
Literally they're terrified
and they thought it might be the Senate
depending on the story,
but that seems to be the closest textual antecedent
to where this author's coming up with a story.
That could just be because Luke's not a Jew,
or what we call Luke.
We don't really know who the author actually is,
but let's just say Luke for the sake of it.
He's writing what seems to be Godfors, Otheophilus.
It's a tough nut to crack about this whole what's going on
because even let's scratch that out
and let's assume he's a pagan using the term.
I don't even like the term, but you know what I mean.
Paul is not.
And Paul still uses stuff.
It seems to fit that non-Jewish world
when he's trying to explain-
Let me ask you a question.
Are you surprised by this?
Is this something which would even be surprising?
It's not surprising now.
It's important because there's an online world
which the scholars and the professors,
such as yourself who live in the ivory towers,
I love to expose because this is the contention.
There are hundreds of apologists
that make a lot of noise and get a lot of attention
who are like winning over the minds of people
who have no clue what really is going on
in the real expertise of your field.
And they're going, no, they can't ever be touched
by these things.
It's purely Jewish and sacred and holy
and there's no way they kind of have this very
one-dimensional understanding of this
and not seeing the nuance.
I say that because I used to be that way,
12, 13 years ago as a fundamentalist.
Yeah, so it's, yeah.
Yeah, so obviously we're talking about human beings.
We're talking about human culture.
We're not talking about some kind of sacred imaginary vacuum
where you have this pure Judaism.
It just, it doesn't exist, it never existed.
And why would we, why would we even want that to exist?
I mean, even from a theological perspective,
wouldn't it make sense to situate these texts
in a human context written by humans who,
what is more human than to be influenced by other humans?
I mean, that's the human condition.
And from a theological perspective,
why would we want some kind of celestial disconnect
between humans that we are, right?
And the texts that we're reading,
obviously the people that were writing these texts
were living in a surrounding culture
which was the dominant culture.
And this obviously would have influenced their writings.
I mean, it seems absurd to think anything otherwise.
And we can put our fingers on the direct influences.
Let me just give you a real, a quick example.
And this relates to the New Testament stories
of the Last Supper.
The Seder, the Passover Seder, the Pesach Seder, right?
So over time it's developed,
and we've had this development over the last 2000 years.
What we have today is far more developed
than we had in the first century.
But even when we see the first century Seder,
certainly when we talk about the rabbis Seder,
what was going on there?
What were people doing, right?
The term Seder means order, right?
There was an order.
So this was a ritualized meal
where people would gather together around the table,
recline, and then you would have wine served,
the first cup of wine served,
and then the first course,
and then the men would talk about
some kind of deep philosophical discussion,
and then you would have another cup of wine served,
and the meal brought out.
And this is a very orderly ritualized meal.
What does it sound like to you?
Does this sound like anything you might recognize
from the Greco-Roman world?
It's the symposium.
We use the term symposium today
when we speak about a scholarly symposium, right?
Scholars getting around and discussing
some kind of deep topic.
But the original Greek symposium
was exactly what I'm describing here.
And the Seder was a symposium.
It was based on the Greek symposium.
Now, should that be upsetting to somebody
who observes the Seder today?
No, there's nothing,
it would be crazy to imagine
that the Seder would have developed
and emerged out of a vacuum.
That just doesn't happen.
So clearly all of these things that you're describing,
Philo, Josephus, New Testament authors,
were deeply familiar with Greco-Roman culture.
And the texts that they penned
were born out of this familiarity with this culture.
It shouldn't be something that should be shocking to us.
But Dr. Adler, Justin Martyr would have said
that Satan knew that Judaism was coming with the Seder meal.
So he tricked the Jews and everybody else
by making the Greek symposium just easy.
They're imitating beforehand.
And now you see why it looks so similar.
Anyway, I'm being silly, being silly.
I'm with you, I agree.
I wouldn't have agreed 13 years ago
because God did specifically protect
and there's an invisible force field
that made this all somehow come down to us,
unique and special, there's nothing.
There's not like a human evolution to it.
And so that I had a very fundamentalist outlook,
of course, as you can tell.
But I say that because that's a lot
of what I also have engaged with the channel
and trying to get proper good education,
what the facts are, what did the scholars say?
And you're bringing that to us.
So I do have Q and A if you're ready.
Absolutely.
Awesome, all right, here we go.
Let's have some fun.
Thank you again, everybody.
Hit the book, sages and pages.
Wouldn't apocalypticism favor getting along with Rome
in the hope that God would soon intervene
to set the record straight?
Would apocalypticism favor getting along with Rome
in the hope that God would soon intervene
to set the record straight?
Not sure that I really understand that question.
Do you, maybe you can help me out here.
How would you understand the question?
I mean, from what I understand,
there's different versions of apocalyptic groups.
Some would maybe pick up swords and fight.
Others might try to collab, cooperate.
And this seems more of like a hypothetical kind of question.
Not necessarily what actually happened, but I don't know.
I can tell you what actually did happen.
I can tell you that there were certainly, you know,
apocalyptic thinkers out there.
One of the issues that I have with apocalypticism
is that we know about it from texts.
And one of the problems is my particular focus
when I'm looking at Judaism is what the masses are doing.
You know, this whole conversation,
we've been talking about the masses.
We've been talking about what the ordinary people are doing.
We spoke about ritual pools that we find
in ordinary people's houses.
We don't, so we can talk about
what people are actually doing.
It's hard to talk about what people are thinking,
what people are believing.
So the apocalyptic texts that we have
are texts that were penned by literate people,
which are already a minority.
And they're not simply literate people.
They're not just people
that know how to sign their name on a document.
These are people that know how to write
quite complex texts, right?
So, Daniel, for example, these are complex texts
which were not written by the masses.
These were written by very intelligent people
who knew how to pen such texts.
It's hard to say how widespread
these apocalyptic notions were.
And we have different kinds of apocalyptic notions,
but it's hard to tell how widespread these ideas were.
In terms of getting along with the Romans
or raising up arms against the Romans,
that we know something about.
We know that there was a revolt in 60s,
which broke out in 66 of the common era against Rome.
Not all of the Jews in Judea took part in this revolt.
Some were forced to take part against their will.
And there were some cities
that made peace with the Romans.
So, that's what we actually know
about what people are doing.
To what degree apocalyptic notions went
into what the masses were actually thinking about
and doing is really hard to say.
Scholars tend to focus on these ideas
because that's what we find in the texts
and they're interesting and they relate to beliefs
that we find in New Testament and so on and so forth.
I have, it might sound weird.
I'm more interested in pottery shards
and broken stone vessels and immersion pools that we find
because those reflect what the masses are actually doing
rather than ideas which might have been quite uncommon.
Quite uncommon.
Thank you so much, St. Jason Pages.
Greg Helton says, did changes from temple to synagogue,
from priest to rabbi,
from sacrifice to prayer happen at same time?
Okay, so first of all, we have just to make things clear,
this early synagogue, the synagogue that we have
in the first century did not take the place of the temple.
The synagogue was an educational institution.
This is where Jews would gather together once a week
and learn about what's written in the Torah.
This existed in parallel to the temple.
The temple was the place of the cults,
the place of sacrifices.
It wasn't in opposition to the temple.
I think what Greg is probably thinking about is post-70.
After the destruction of the temple,
we no longer have a temple,
we no longer have priests functioning in the temple.
Right.
And we no longer have sacrifices.
So all we have left is the synagogue,
the sage, the rabbi, prayer is what we have left.
And so I would say the watershed for that,
for what Greg is talking about,
would be the destruction of the temple in 70.
That makes sense, yeah.
And do you know why they,
it's just because they've lost ground in the temple,
correct?
I mean, they can't.
Once the temple is destroyed,
there's no longer or sacrifices,
that you need a temple in order to have the sacrifices.
Thank you.
Dr. Pluromonad, good to see you here.
Why did the Yahad give only half-shekel temple tax?
Why the liberal standpoint,
able to fulfill the commandment
but withhold support on an annual basis?
Seems they had some legal eagles.
So I'm not sure what he means here
by only the half-shekel temple tax.
Yeah, I mean, that was the standard.
That's what we find in Exodus,
this notion of giving a half-shekel.
But when we get to this period of time,
when it's actually being put into practice,
this was understood to be an annual tax.
I don't know that the Yahad
had a different practice than other Jews.
So I'm not, this could be something
that I'm not familiar with.
I don't know that their practice was any different
but with regard to the half-shekel tax.
I appreciate that.
Sorry if we couldn't give you a full answer there,
but we tried.
Smashing the patriarchy.
Thank you for the super chat, my friend.
I really appreciate the love.
Dr. Pluromonad is again back.
What are the chances that Jesus would be reading Isaiah 61
from the LXX and Luke?
Restoring site, quote unquote,
is not found in the original Hebrew,
seems historically anachronistic.
Okay, wow.
I would have to pick open up Isaiah 61 and Luke
and the Septuagint to see what he's referring to,
what he's referring to, restoring site.
Sorry, off the bat, I can't answer that.
Yeah, it's just a curious question to kind of go like,
if let's just say that the LXX does have a restoring site,
but the Hebrew doesn't say restoring site.
The author, at the very least it would be saying,
whoever the author of Luke is,
is putting saying that Jesus is reading from the LXX.
Let's put it this way, yeah.
Jesus, if he was, Jesus was reading in a synagogue
in Galilee, presumably he would have been reading
from the original Hebrew, right?
Our assumption is that Jews living in Judea and Galilee,
we're not reading from Greek texts of scriptures in Judea.
That's our assumption.
I think it's a pretty good assumption.
Our assumption is that usually the Greek texts
would have been used by Jews living in the diaspora.
So, I don't know where Luke was writing
and what Luke had in mind when he's picturing Jesus
reading from Isaiah in a synagogue in Galilee,
but in terms of Jesus himself,
if Jesus ever stood in a synagogue
and was reading from a scriptural scroll,
he would have done it in Hebrew.
So, this is probably the author's insights.
If indeed we, again, I can't speak to this particular,
this particular verse, I just don't have it off hand,
but if indeed we can surmise that the author of Luke
has the Greek version of Isaiah in front of him,
then yeah, then he's picturing Jesus reading
from a Greek version that would not have been accurate.
Thank you.
Doc Plurma again says, last one and love your work.
How, when did lower to upper vessel
reverse liquid impurity transference
evolve as prohibited by the Essenes and Sadducees?
Wow, that was it.
That is a great question.
Just to maybe to explain to the other readers,
the other listeners that are not as well versed
in the ritual purity laws,
there was a question amongst Jews at the time,
if we have two vessels, right?
One of them is pure and one of them is impure.
And so let's imagine that we have a bowl and a cup
and we're pouring from a impure vessel
into a pure vessel, right?
Obviously everyone would agree that the impurity
travels from above down into the lower vessel, right?
I'm pouring impure water into a bowl.
Obviously the impurity is gonna go into the bowl.
The question is what happens the other way around?
What if I have an impure bowl beneath
and a pure cup above and I'm pouring,
let's say pure water into the impure bowl,
does the impurity go up the stream?
Does it travel up the stream?
People, this is called Nitzok.
Now the really cool thing about this
is that we've known about this for 2000 years
that the Jews were arguing about this
because we find it in the Mishnah, right?
So the Mishnah edited around the year 200 CE.
Talks about this.
It talks about the Pharisees versus the Sadducees.
The Sadducees were more strict.
The Sadducees said that the impurity travels up the stream.
The Pharisees said that it doesn't.
And this, you know, Jews who have been studying these texts
that the Mishnah and Talmudic texts for 2000 years
have known about this debate.
What's really cool is that in the 1980s,
the text from Qumran called Miqtzat-Maseyat-Tawah
was first published in which this exact debate
is described, but from the opposite direction.
So instead of hearing from the rabbis,
you know, let's call them the spiritual descendants
of the Pharisees, talking about this debate
from their perspective, we hear from the perspective
of the Qumran sect, which has taken on the legal position
of the Sadducees, the other side, right?
So that's the background to this question.
Let me have a quick look at the question again.
How did this notion, the Essene and Sadducee notion
evolve in terms of, you know, why did they come up
with this position that impurity travels up versus not?
That's a great question.
Someone peed on an electric fence
and the electricity came up stream, I'm just kidding.
I don't know why that's the first thing that came to mind
was like, here's an electric fence and someone goes,
oh, snap.
Oftentimes we think of the Sadducees and the Essenees
as being more strict.
So when there's a question and, you know,
one side is more lenient and the other side is more strict,
oftentimes we think of the Sadducees and the Essenees
as being more strict.
It's not a very accurate way of understanding it,
but, you know, in this case,
clearly the Sadducees and the Essenees
took the more strict position.
Why they took that position, I don't think we really know
both in the Mishnah and the Miqsat-Masea Torah,
there's, to the best of my knowledge,
there's not a real explanation for why,
you know, for why each side took their position.
It's an interesting question.
Yeah, I'd love to know the exact reason,
but it's curious, like the oven,
the debate over the oven in Judaism
and like the Jewish thought, like, you know,
they're so very meticulous about very, very detailed things
that I'm like, what, you know, so.
But you know, this is really, really important.
We can laugh about it, but I think if we wanna understand
what Judaism is in the time of Jesus,
this is the topic of our discussion here,
we need to take this seriously, right?
If I would say to my students,
let's put ourselves into the sandals and tunic
of a first century Jew and try to think the way
that this person would have thought.
The way they thought was, it says in the Pentateuch
that, you know, impurity travels from one thing to another.
God is telling me that this is what I need to do.
Okay, now I need to understand it.
I need to understand the details
because the details are important, right?
If God is telling me that impurity travels
from one object to another,
I damn sure make, must make sure that I'm doing it right.
I think if I do it wrong, that's a problem, right?
I want to fulfill God's legislation.
God is telling me to do something, I need to get it right.
So the details are super important, right?
This was lost with Christianity, right?
This was lost with, you know, we spoke about Paul
doing away with the law for the Gentiles.
When that happened, we really lost this notion
of the importance of the details with regard to rituals.
And this is something which, again,
if we want to understand Judaism in the first century,
this is what was important.
It was just as important to Jesus as it was,
and his disciples as it was to other Jews.
This is Judaism of the first century.
Good question, Doc.
Marian Fowler says, thanks, Derek,
keep doing what you're doing.
A lot of it seems like here in Washington,
I don't care about football at all, but you know, 12, go Hawks.
Well, thank you, Marian, for the super chat.
I am in Washington and the weather is nice outside today.
Sages and pages was early Christian literature
more influenced by 4th Ezra,
a pessimistic outlook on humanity,
or 2nd Baruch, a more positive tone.
Wow, this is, these are great questions.
This is, I would say beyond my expertise.
So I'll have to take a pass on that.
I tend to think, well, I know that Paul
Fredrickson wrote her, Paul the Pagan's Apostle.
In that, she says he's kind of hunting through scripture,
and then he sees positive and negative for humanity.
So he finds a way to reconcile by saying,
look, if you're not in Christ,
it's gonna be negative for you.
It's positive though, meaning all people non-Jews alike
are brought in, cause you know,
there's some literature that just like almost,
like hates unanimously non-Jewish.
I'm also curious what early Christian literature would mean.
You know, are we thinking of New Testament texts
as Christian literature?
That's a good question.
There's this Jewish literature.
Good questions.
That's a great question,
cause I already pulled Paul into the fight, right?
And is Paul even, I guess you could say
he has something of a strange thing
that becomes Christianity,
but Sages and pages, good question.
Maybe one day I'll get Paul Frederickson back on.
Dustin Ellerby, good to see you here, my friend.
Thanks for being a member as well.
What do you mean by Judaism?
What do you mean by Jew?
And were there Israelites, non-Jewdians
out in the nations who did not follow Judaism?
Okay.
So when I speak of Judaism,
I, I'm using the term in a very specific way,
and I'm not claiming that this is the definition of Judaism.
This is the way that I'm using the term.
I'm using the term as the Jewish way of life
governed by Torah law.
So that's, when I use the term, that's,
that's what I mean by it.
We have the term Uda Ismos in a few texts.
It doesn't appear very often.
And my sense is it means something like that
already in antiquity.
It means, you know, the way that Jews conduct themselves
in accordance with the Torah.
So that, that's the way that I use the term Judaism.
When I use the term Jew,
I am referring to a person who would have identified himself
as a Jew, right?
As an Udaio, as an Udaio.
So, you know, people that identify themselves as such,
and presumably others would have also identified them as such.
So that's the very simple way that I would,
I would speak of these things.
They're going to be borderline cases where, you know,
we can, we can argue, is this, is this some,
is this person we should regard as a Jew or not?
But we shouldn't lose the forest for the trees.
I think it's, it's in antiquity,
there wouldn't have been much of a doubt
about most of the people if they were Udaio or not, right?
That's, that's, that's pretty clear.
As to the last question, were there Israelites,
not Judeans out in the nations who did not follow Judaism?
I guess the question is, were there people
who would have self-identified as Israelites,
not as Judeans, who didn't follow,
who didn't keep the laws of the Torah?
Samaritans, what we would call today Samaritans,
were people who did not regard themselves as Judeans
from later texts, we know that Samaritans did regard themselves
as Israelites and they followed the laws of the Torah
as they, as they understood them, right?
So since the days, probably since the days
of John Herkenes the first who conquered Samaria,
it seems that the Samaritans were keeping the laws of the Torah
and yet they did not regard themselves as Judeans.
So I would say yes, the answer is yes.
There were people who identify themselves as Israelites,
not as Judeans who were not following,
I guess we would call it not following Judaism
because they're not, you know, they're not Judeans.
So the art of keeping the laws of the Torah.
Another way to ask you to kind of go more specific,
apart from Samaritans, I have never come across anything
that signifies that the Goyim or the ethnic themselves
are Israelites, but what are there any other people
other than the Samaritans that you're aware of
that are identified as Israelites that aren't Jews?
That don't, the people that identify themselves as Israelites
don't identify themselves as Jews.
I don't know of any other group.
I think it's important to put the Torah observance
on the side because that's a separate issue, right?
Okay.
Identification as a Jew, as a Judean
is not contingent on Torah observance.
We have Judeans before there was widespread Torah observance.
So not to confuse the issue,
let's put Torah observance on the side,
simple identification as a Judean or as an Israelite.
I don't know of any other group offhand
that regarded themselves as Israelites,
but didn't regard themselves as Judeans
aside from the Samaritans.
So yeah, that's the only group that I can think of offhand.
Maybe after we go offline, something will pop into my head,
but no, it's the Samaritans that are regarding themselves
as Israelites, but not Judeans.
That's where I was at.
I just figured I'd ask to get more specific
and Dustin says, thanks Derek and Professor Adler,
you are welcome, my friend.
And the reason that question came up,
it's an interesting, curious one.
There's actually a group that I came out of
called Full Preterism, I'll spare you the details.
And a group that came out of that group called Israel Only,
and they have noticed this whole launch.
How many groups have you been in there?
Too many, man.
Like I said, I was immersed, I was sprinkled,
I was, I was all over the place, I had different,
I was just trying to figure out the truth, you know?
And that journey took me, I'm trying, I tried.
I mean, I got a lot of people quoted that verse,
to and fro with the wind, you're going all these doctrines.
I was really trying to figure out
what I thought was the truth.
And, but the group is Israel Only,
is what they titled themselves,
Ancient Israel Only, Israel Only Preterist,
something like that.
What they do is they think Paul is searching
and that the New Testament,
when it's talking about the nations,
Goyim, the ethne,
that they are interpreting that theologically,
to mean the lost Israelites,
who were scattered among the nations,
because you can find precedents of this
in the Hebrew Scriptures.
And it kind of fits that somewhat Jason Staples
kind of approach, but not Jason Staples.
They think that Paul's ethne are really,
truly Israelites.
They just are rediscovering it
or weren't really practicing the law of God.
And then they were apostatized in some way,
kind of like you see the Epispasm,
where the reverse circumcision, things like that.
Well, they look at it as almost like
these Israelites have apostatized from centuries ago.
And Jesus and then Paul are bringing them back.
His lost sheep are always Israelites in some way.
Is the idea that the Assyrian exile
of the Northern tribes somehow made their way
to Asia Minor and Greece?
Yep.
Ever since the Assyrian conquest from Assyria
and they have been scattered among the nations,
they've been there all along somewhere
and kept their identity.
They just fell away from practicing Torah
and then eventually they end up getting brought back in,
which I have dug deep into this.
I am not convinced at all of any of it.
I just think it's part of the theological mindset of...
If the idea is that somehow the Northern tribes
were exiled westward, that's kind of hard to imagine.
The exile of whatever numbers were exiled
by the Assyrians were probably taken eastward
towards the direction of Assyria.
It's hard to imagine that somehow
they would have made their way to Asia Minor
and Greece and Rome.
That's just not where the Assyrians were.
Well, they would probably just say over time,
they moved to a new location,
but that they were somehow a unit
that knew their identity still 800 years later.
And...
I don't see how you can find that in the New Testament,
right?
That doesn't seem to be what they're describing.
I'm not even gonna bore you with the details
of what some of the passages are,
but I just thought it was interesting
because this was a real thing I dug into
for a couple of years really deep,
and I just walked away from it going,
no, like every time you're reading Ethne,
Goyim in the New Testament,
and there's anything that deals with being in Christ
or salvation or anything,
it always ended up becoming,
well, Goyim and Ethne are actually Israelites.
They're not Jews.
They're Israelites who are lost their identity
and are coming back into the fold
that have been lost all along.
So it's the lost tribes of Israel mythos
that is being incorporated.
And I took it serious,
really researching it and studying it,
but at the end of the day just over and over fell
and said, no, no, no, no, this isn't making sense.
And then you have writers like right off the bat
thanking God that they were not born a goi.
They were not born a Gentile, you know?
There's, you know, these,
the lost tribes have been spawning grounds
for some really, really fun, fun ideas.
I'm in Denmark right now.
And, you know, there was a,
an idea in, was it maybe the 17th century
that the Danes are descendants of the tribe of Dan?
Of course, because it sounds like it.
So, you know, you've got this,
there have been books that have been written about
that, you know, these various, these ideas.
And it's, there's, there's something mysterious
about the lost tribes, right?
Yeah, we might both be part of a secret.
Now, but this is the point too.
This is something that comes up here.
Shai says, Jews are a tribe, the Judeans.
So this, this is the kind of goes back to our question
from our friend Dustin.
And it's more like, well, Jews were only one out of 12 tribes.
What happened at the 11 or what happened to the 10?
Cause, you know, you have Benjamin here with Paul saying,
I'm of the tribe of Benjamin.
So the Jews, Judeans and Benjamites, cool, they're together.
Josephus mentions beyond the Euphrates,
there's 10 lost tribes and numerable and count,
blah, blah, blah, blah, that's that mythos.
But like, when you say Jews and they're all over,
and they're the ones identified with this religion,
we call Judaism, practicing the religion of their, the texts.
And then you only have Samaritans.
What about the other guys?
So they're stuck trying to explain, where are the 10?
You know, where's these people and what's up with them?
And why are you calling these guys Jews?
Are it like, is everyone who's identified
with this religion now either a Jew or a Samaritan?
And there's no other people identifying
with anything else that it leaves this hole
in the narrative in the mind.
And even today you have people who fill it,
British Israelites will say, okay, well, the Jews were one tribe,
but we are the 10 Northern tribes and we're from Britain
and somehow we're connected.
And you have it with Hebrew Israelites in America.
There's all sorts of like filling the holes.
There's actually, there's organizations in Israel
that are going out there on expeditions,
looking for the lost tribes
and trying to bring them to Israel.
And there are groups in India, a Northern India,
the area near the Nepal border,
which are, were identified as descendants
of these lost tribes.
And they were, there's actually large numbers
that have been brought to Israel
on the basis of these ideas.
Now these are, this is not, this is not,
there's nothing scientific about this.
This is, we're in the realm of myth.
And it's, you know, it's fun to go down this path,
but there's nothing historical or scientific about this.
I'm with you.
Any of these things.
Well, yeah, I mean, look at a convert.
They're not genetically, genealogically,
there's no science behind it.
It is, there's kind of an affiliation now,
a mythos that you're connecting yourself
to this Coltec practice or this way of life
or whatever it might be.
And I don't bat an eye at that,
but when you start making historical claims for like,
hey, the Goyim are actually lost Israelites
from the eighth century BC in the Assyrian conquest,
that made me go, hold on, hold on, what?
And so anyway, it's a deep exploration.
Jason Staples, have you ever heard, you know who he is?
Don't you?
Yeah, he kind of makes this claim that like,
Paul imagines we get, like all Israel must be saved,
Romans chapter nine through 11.
And the way to get them is to save the nations.
And there's gotta be Israelites out in the nations
that were lost at some point in the past.
So how do we save all Israel?
He doesn't take all Israel to mean all Eudaos or all the Jews.
He takes Israel to be, you know, Jews and then some.
And most of scholars I talk to think Israel is synonymous
in the usage of Paul here with Jews.
And this is why he's like, my brethren,
I wish I could be cut off for you.
And these are the Jews who are not accepting
his Christ teachings and stuff.
So I don't know, it's a fun, weird rabbit hole.
If you're strange like me and you like to go down
stuff like that.
I would say people that are into
conspirational thinking enjoy, you know,
this kind of thing.
But yeah, from an historical perspective,
there's no reason to think that in the first century
of the common era, there was anybody
who was keeping up some kind of Israelite identity
outside of Judeans and Samaritans.
Thank you, Dr. Adler.
That was a heck of a rabbit trail.
And we need to promote the book.
So let me pop that joker up.
So people know you've got a 50% coupon
for anyone who goes and buys the origins of Judaism book.
And the coupon code is in the description.
You only have a limited amount of time.
Right now it's 45 brand new without any coupon
and what drops it down to what 22.50 or something.
Yeah.
And that has to be done through the Yale University Press
website.
So that's until June 23rd.
I put that link in the description as well.
Don't go to the Amazon one for the discount.
If you're watching this after that discount has passed,
you can always go wherever.
If it's the same price, it might help to go through Yale
just so they can say, hey, we sold from the publisher
itself, and that might help you more.
You also have the academia page.
People can go follow.
You've written several articles and publications.
I just read the Imperial Cult Meets Judaism
and I was just like, I love this.
I'm such a weirdo.
So it's a deep dive into looking close at some
of this material.
And you're stepping in the middle of the debate
and then drawing a conclusion that I
thought was a really interesting one.
So if you haven't read it, go read it.
And there is a map.
I was looking at, if you've ever been over there,
here's Lake Tiberius, the Sea of Galilee, if you will.
And this is where the site is located, somewhere right here.
So it gives you a perspective, the one
that we've been looking at in that article.
All right, any final words from you, Dr. Adler,
so that people know what they need to do?
We're all about the practice and the action here, not
so much just the belief.
Anything you're interested in getting into the world
of the New Testament writers, certainly of Jesus
and his followers, Paul, for that matter.
And you really want to understand what was their lives
like, what were their lives like, what was Judaism at this time?
I would encourage you to make that switch between thinking
about faith, between thinking about beliefs
and to start thinking about practices,
because this is really what was important to people
at this time.
And the details might not be so interesting to most people,
but they were super important to the people living at the time.
They were super important to Jews surrounding Jesus,
to Jesus and to his followers.
And if you really want to understand what the surrounding
Jewish culture was like at the time,
I would encourage you to think about practices over beliefs.
Last little super chat.
Constellation Pegasus snuck in.
What's going on with demons in this time period?
Judaism can't agree with them.
Yeah, so again, demons are really a belief issue.
And so we find it.
We find it in New Testament and Gospel texts,
this idea that probably mental illness was understood as having
a demon inside of you.
But again, we're talking about beliefs.
And the beliefs are there.
I'm not denying that there are beliefs.
And they're interesting, right?
But it's really the practices that I think we should be thinking
about a lot more than we normally do.
And I think it would give us a far more rounded notion of Jesus
himself and his disciples and the rest of the Jews
that are living at this time.
This is really what day-to-day life was about.
It was really about the practices that what people are doing
from the moment they wake up in the morning
until they go to sleep at night.
This is what people are really thinking about,
especially if we're thinking about the purity laws.
This is stuff which what it is that I did the night before
with my wife and what my neighbor did with his wife.
And when I come into contact with him,
when I meet up with him in the marketplace,
and if I have to go immerse myself after I come back
from the marketplace, this is the stuff
that people were devoting their mental energies towards.
So I think if I could encourage your listeners
to think about that a bit more, I
think we've accomplished something.
Thank you so much.
And I noticed through my software,
it doesn't show membership stuff.
There's a couple of members in here, topic discussed.
Member for 13 months, you're awesome.
Thank you for that.
And then Logan Fisher says, thank you, Derek,
and Professor Adler, member for eight months of MythVision.
I hope that you can get some people
to go check out your book.
Dr. Adler, please keep me in the loop.
Let me know if the publishers are happy.
And I always love to encourage people to educate themselves
to get out of the bubble that I was once in.
So if anything, that's my duty, is
to try and help people see the bigger picture.
Because I honestly believe the more we learn,
the things you're describing, the things
that I'm learning through this journey we call MythVision,
there's more unity and less division and more understanding,
not an us versus them understanding.
It's more of like this is the human experience.
Let's get it.
Let's understand how we thought.
And some people still think this way.
And just getting that is a I love it.
I love it.
So thank you for your time.
It's late over there in Europe.
Thanks so much for having me, Derek.
This has been a pleasure.
Thank you.
Please hit the Like button.
Check out the description.
Get us books.
Help support the scholars we bring on the channel
so that we can continue to educate the world.
You can do it even if you don't have the money
by liking, sharing, commenting.
If you do, you can buy their books.
You can get courses with some of the academics I have.
The list goes on and on.
You can help support our Patreon and goes on from there.
So Dr. Adler, never forget, here's our corny outro.
We are MythVision.
Now I'm going to play a little intro
that I haven't played in a while.
Let's see which one of my I'm going to go with the apocalyptic.
Let's see which one of my I'm going to go with the apocalyptic.
