We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and today I have a guest named Henry Doktorski.
He is an author who's written prolifically on a topic that we're going to be discussing
that I've never talked about here on MythVision.
And that is the, is it, Harry Krishna Colt?
Correct.
And so you're going to be filling us in, you've written many books, eight in fact, I believe
you said, maybe more actually, gold guns and God, and of course, killing for Krishna,
and then 11, is it the 11 Naked Emperors, we're going to be diving deep into some of
this Colt and the background behind it, what happened, what makes this such a crazy story,
in fact, we're going to get into some of the details, I suspect.
But welcome to MythVision, and if you don't mind, introduce yourself.
Hi.
Hey, thanks.
Thanks for having me, Derek.
I am a former Harry Krishna devotee.
I lived at the New Vrindavan, West Virginia, Harry Krishna community for about 15, 16
years from 1978, as soon as I finished college, I actually got my undergraduate degree.
And I had a great time mostly, but I left in 93, 94, because boy, it was getting really
weird, and my ideas have changed also since then, you know, so now it's, for me, it's
writing about those times and documenting the history, so that many people could learn
from my experiences and the experience of others and hopefully benefit from that.
What, if you don't mind taking us back, I must admit my ignorance.
I have not read your works.
I was informed by a patron member who told me you must interview Henry, and I said, OK,
I will, but I've heard the name and passing Harry Krishna.
And all I know is the word Krishna is a Hindu God, and that's the only thing I'm aware of
is that Krishna is a Hindu God and it's a Hindu term, or at least from India.
Can you tell us who this cult leader is?
What fascinated you?
What drew you into the community to begin with, whether certain teachings or ideas that
made you convinced to go?
Well, yeah, in college, I became interested in Indian thought and philosophy.
I had heard about the Maharishi, Mahasyogi, transcendental meditation, and I thought
that was pretty cool.
I paid my $35 initiation fee and I got my secret mantra, which I used to chant in my
mind 20 minutes in the morning and in the evening, and I thought that was cool.
I liked, I think meditation is a really good thing.
And after college, I happened to visit the the new Vrindavan West Virginia
Hare Krishna community.
It's at the time it was a farm community.
Pretty the motto was simple living, high thinking.
And I visited for an afternoon and I met some of the devotees and ate some of the
vegetarian food and I thought, I thought it was really a great place.
I said, these people practice what they preach.
The Hindus, for the most part, and the Krishna's, they believe in reincarnation.
In other words, that you don't suffer in hell eternally if you don't follow.
And I thought reincarnation is pretty cool because everybody gets a second chance.
And they're vegetarians and I was leaning that way.
I thought, well, that's kind of nonviolent.
I think nonviolence is a good thing.
Why eat animals if you don't have to?
And and they, you know, Krishna, of course, is the they they call it the
Supreme Personality of Godhead because there's so many gods in in Hinduism.
But Krishna, according, you know, to their scriptures is the source of all the other gods.
So you might if you're going to if you're going to worship and serve and pray to a deity,
you might as well go right to the top, the top, the top dude, you know,
like they didn't say, dude, I'm just become quite irreverent, I suppose, in my old age.
But but yeah, so it was, you know, I was impressed.
I thought these are like the green berets of the spiritual movements.
I visited Maharishi's University in Iowa earlier, and I wasn't impressed
because because the male students, they wore suits and ties.
And at the time, I would never was a hippie, but I kind of identified with them
and I had long hair and, you know, war jeans and stuff like that.
And but the new Vrindavan people, the men shaved their heads and they were vegetarians.
The single men they lived in an ashram in sleeping bags on the floor, very simple.
And I appreciated that I was austere.
It wasn't plush.
And I thought, well, if you're going to be a monk, you you you you have to adopt
some some austerity, some hardships like that.
And and I had a great time there for, you know, almost 15, 16 years.
Wow. So you were you did what they did.
You you practice like they did.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, see, see, in my case,
see, I had just got my undergraduate degree in music.
I was a piano performance and double major in music education.
And I was actually on my way to graduate school in North Texas State to study piano.
And
but but at that time of my life, there was a lot of uncertainty,
a lot of insecurities in me.
I had some, you know, wonderful experiences with with women in college,
but I also had some very devastating experiences.
And and I and I saw that the the men were celibate at the Newfound out community.
I thought, well, you know, if I can't have a really great relationship
with a woman, might as well give up the whole thing like that.
And just become like this.
They call him Brahmachari.
It's a celibate monk in the the Hindu Hindu term.
But so my life was kind of uncertain.
And I visit this my second visit, I met Kirtanananda Swami.
He was the the leader of the community.
He was one of the first disciples of A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada.
Now, that's a mouthful.
But the Prabhupada was born in 1896, died in 1977.
He brought this Hare Krishna movement to the United States.
He came in 1965 and started the society and he attracted thousands of disciples.
And I would imagine tens of thousands of followers like this.
So so for me, it was it was, you know, I had some negative experiences in my life
and they are promising eternal happiness and bliss.
That's such ananda, eternality, happiness and bliss.
And I said, well, let me try this, let me try this.
And so I I skipped school for the rest of the semester from August to December.
And I figured, let me try this.
If if if I don't like it, I'll just resume my studies in January.
And as it turned out, I had a conversion experience and spent a major part of my life there.
Do you hear that, my Christian friends?
He had a real conversion experience.
OK, so this this was obviously transformative, different.
It satisfied you in some sense with what you were looking for in life at the moment,
or at least it steered you in a direction to give you what they were wanting you to look for.
But my question is the leadership that was in this cult.
Can you tell us about the cult and take us through this journey
of these 12 to 15 years that you were in?
Well, that's a lot to say.
I'll go back to Swami Prabhupāda, who was the founder.
He was he was a Gaudiya Vaishnava Guru.
Gaudiya Vaishnavism is actually the religion.
And it has a fairly long history in India.
And he was instructed to bring by his spiritual master.
He was instructed to bring to preach in the West.
And which he did.
And he came at a time during the heyday of the counterculture
in New York City and San Francisco and many teenagers and young adults
were really questioning their the establishment and the life in the mainstream.
And they were looking for something exotic.
And many, many of these counterculture members
and hippies gravitated to the Hare Krishna movement.
OK, so so then one of Prabhupāda's first disciples
was Kīrtana Nanda Swami and later known as Kīrtana Nanda Swami Bhakti Pad.
And that was my guru. All right.
He was I joined after Swami Prabhupāda passed away.
So he was he was my guru and he was basically established
this West Virginia farm community in Marshall County, West Virginia.
And when I first met him, I saw him as a very wise
and kind father figure.
And that's another reason why I became a Hare Krishna devotee.
And I did not realize it for decades, but as a child and I had
some emotional void, my relationship with my my own father.
And he was a great guy. It's just that we were so different.
He he loved gardening and and building things with his hands.
And when he when it was he wanted me to go and weed in the garden,
I'd like run and hide, you know.
So but I was interested in music and reading things.
And and it just seemed that he wasn't able to be the father
that I needed at the time, you know, his personality.
So so I meet the Swami Bhakti Pad.
He's about 19 years older than me.
And he appears very wise and magnanimous.
And he took some interest in me and I just over time,
accepted him as as a father figure.
And so anyway, that's that that's a digression there.
But but it's important for me to, you know, understand
how I how I joined this.
It wasn't it wasn't there was a lot of hidden motives and reasons and things like that.
But anyway, the the Krishna community, it's all about preaching.
You want to save people's souls by by encouraging them to chant Hare Krishna
to adopt this, you know, vegetarian lifestyle.
And the holy name of Krishna is allegedly
saves one from the cycle of birth and death.
And you can you can transcend the reincarnation, the transmigration of souls
and hopefully return to Krishna's personal vote.
Of course, you know, that's that's the mythology of the religion.
I would say, you know, and but but it's something that I kind of like adopted
at least at least for that time.
And and there are, I mean, I since then, I have discovered that
there are a lot of benefits to having religious beliefs, which which can't be
proven, you know, empirically.
And it was a time of of of happiness in some ways, you know.
But to be frank, I think I'm a lot happier now since I left.
Right. Let me ask you this.
As far as the experience goes and then we'll backtrack back
on to the history of what happens.
Would you say that they just like a charismatic, let's say,
Pentecostal or some type of Christian group that has you believe all of the
theology and different things they want you to believe.
They have ecstatic experiences that are attached to it, which make those
beliefs more plausible in the mind of the adherent.
Well, I'm not, I'm not sure that I had ecstatic experiences.
I'm sure many did.
I have friends who,
Kirtan is is the congregational chanting of the Holy Names.
Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna, Krishna, Hare Hare Rama, Hare Rama,
Rama Rama, Hare Hare are three names of God.
And it's in the Hare Krishna tradition, the Gaudiya Vaishnav tradition.
You chant them quietly on beads, but you also gather together
with drums and cymbals and dancing and and it's a call and response
and an antiphonal chant.
The leader will sing the mantra and then we all follow.
And the the chanting and dancing can get quite ecstatic at times.
And yeah, there's a type of ecstasy there.
I don't think I ever had an out of body experience.
But but but there is that, you know, there is enjoyment in that.
So you wrote a book just to remind everybody.
The book is killing for Krishna.
So I guess getting into the history leading up to, you know, your experience
through this call, tell us, you know, some of that history.
And then what why did you write this book?
Well, all right, I'm going to I'll talk about the why first.
As I said before, I was a devout member,
fairly devout for some 15 years.
And during that time, there were a couple murders of one one at the community
and another murder of a former community member, which which occurred in Los Angeles.
And I mean, I didn't know either of the people very well.
And I wasn't, you know, terribly involved
at all, actually, with them.
So that that was something I was aware of, but it passed away.
So so years later, after I left,
I think it was in 2001 or 2002.
This is about seven, eight years after after I moved away.
I was visiting the New Vendaman community and I had friends there still.
And I at the time I lived in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
I'd go several times a year for festivals and I'd see my old friends.
And anyway, at one one visit,
this fella from Toronto, his name was such such of Rata.
He played viola.
He was very good violist.
And for like six, eight years, I was music director at the community.
I played the pipe organ.
We had an accordion orchestra.
We had a temple orchestra.
I wrote composed music for the services.
And he played viola in our orchestra.
And during this short conversation,
he he began reminding me of stuff we had done together.
Music we had performed and that that I had forgotten
in the in the past 12 years.
All right, since we did these that did this music.
And I real and I thought the music that that we did was I liked it.
I liked it a lot.
And I didn't I thought this see how memory fades after time.
I decided I was going to write an article about the music that we did
so that that it wouldn't be lost to past prosperity.
So I had a fairly substantial collection of new Vrindavan publications.
And I looked through about the music and I got the dates and this and that.
I started writing.
And then I realized, well, at this time in new Vrindavan history,
we were I was writing Western classical style music.
But the Hare Krishna's it's all traditional Bengali folk music.
All right.
And I had to explain what went before and then why
that music at new Vrindavan died that I had created.
And and and that was a long, long, long story.
So it turned into a history of the new Vrindavan community.
And I'd been working on it part time, of course, because I have to earn a living.
And about in twenty, twenty sixteen or something, I was researching about this murder
that of a former new Vrindavan resident.
His name was Steve Bryant in Krishna terms.
He was called Sulochan.
And one of my friends at new Vrindavan found out I was writing this history.
And he said, Rishikesh, come with me.
That was my initial name.
Rishikesh, servant of the master of the senses, the servant of God.
And he took me up to this trailer.
This old, dilapidated, leaking trailer, a truck trailer,
sitting in this abandoned parking lot amid this debris.
He unlocked the gate we climbed inside.
And there happened to be the personal archives of my spiritual master,
Kirtananda Swami Bhaktipad.
Hundreds and hundreds of his personal correspondence.
There was new Vrindavan publications, Iskand publications, letters,
magnetic tape, slew of photographs.
And he gave it to me.
He said, you'll need this for your research.
So little did he know what was in there.
There was several boxes of papers that were actually classified information
that nobody knew about.
And one of the boxes was this whole,
told the whole story about the murder of this fellow Silochan
and what had been going down.
And then I discovered that all these high-ranking leaders at New Vrindavan
were involved in this murder conspiracy, including today,
one particular Iskand Guru who's got like tens and tens of thousands of disciples.
And nobody knew that all these guys were involved,
because they're keeping it a secret.
When I found out the inside story about this murder conspiracy,
which started in West Virginia and Cleveland, Ohio,
and they followed him out, hunted him for six months,
finally shot the guy twice in the brains in the head in Los Angeles,
I said, this book has to come out first.
Because I've already got a huge, enormous manuscript,
thousands of pages, but this book has to come out first
because I think it's very important that at least the Krishna devotees know
who was involved in this murder conspiracy.
So after killing for Krishna, it came out in 2018.
Two years later was 11 Naked Emperors,
which is a broader history of the takeover of Iskand after Swami Prabhupada died.
And then the volumes of Gold Guns and God,
which deal specifically with Kirtananda Swami Bhaktipada
and the West Virginia New Vrindavan community.
Can you tease us with some highlights that you think are relevant to this murder,
is multiple murders, you said two murders, but specifically,
one of them for sure you're saying the top dogs were involved
and you had writings from your spiritual master,
who is pretty much confessing saying this is what they're doing.
Was he involved in it too?
Well, his writings, he doesn't confess that he's in there.
In fact, he went on trial for these murders and the jury acquitted him of the murder charges
because they didn't have enough evidence.
But going back to this question,
what year is this, by the way?
Just so we're, is 70s?
Yeah, Salochan, he was killed in 1986.
So if you want a brief summary of that, I can do that.
Oh man, I don't know how brief it could be.
But let's just say that this fellow Salochan,
he lived at New Vrindavan with his wife from about 1980, 81, 82, 83, 84,
or on and off.
They traveled a bit, but they were during that time,
they were living at New Vrindavan and the guy was,
he was kind of abusive to his wife.
I mean, in the Hindu relationship, the wife is regarded as a servant.
In fact, for thousands of years, women had no rights at all.
Not only in India, but in the West like that, women and children.
So the tradition, which Prabhupada's spouse was that the wife has to serve the husband
obediently, even if the husband is abusive, all right?
And in this way, Prabhupada said,
but if the wife is always obedient and submissive,
she can capture the heart of her husband.
Of course, that doesn't always happen.
Well, I like this.
So she lost whatever affection she had for him,
and she was very dedicated to her spiritual master,
which was my spiritual master, Kirtan Ananda Swami Bhaktipad.
Salocha, however, he was one of the,
he was an original disciple of Swami Prabhupada.
So he got in, I guess, some trouble with New Vrindavan leaders
just because he wasn't submissive to the authorities.
He liked to argue and he got into a fight one time during a basketball game,
and he essentially got beat up.
So then he said, I'm leaving now.
I'm moving away.
This community is no good.
Not a good place either for my wife or two children.
And he ordered his wife to join him in exile.
She refused because she loved Swami Bhaktipad like a daughter loves a father,
and she loved, she loved living at New Vrindavan.
A lot of people did, you know.
But in order to love living there,
you have to be a submissive disciple of the Guru.
And Salocha was not bad at all.
He wasn't even a disciple of Bhaktipad.
He was a godbrother.
So he takes their two kids and begs her to join them,
and she refuses.
So then he takes off.
Meanwhile, she goes to Swami Bhaktipad and says,
you know, my husband took my two kids.
Can we get them back?
So Bhaktipad calls up three enforcers.
We call them Chakthriyas.
Chakthriyas is one of the four varnas of the caste system.
Chakthriyas means a warrior, a ruler, kind of like that, you know, a fighter.
So he got three guys.
They got in a van with the mother and started following this guy.
They knew where he was going.
He's going to his parents' house in Michigan.
And they're passing this grocery store on Route 7 in Ohio.
And they see his van in the parking lot.
He had stopped because one of his kids needed diapers.
All right.
You have to change the kid.
So he went into the store.
They come in.
They retrieve the two kids.
And the kids are sitting on their mother's lap in the community van.
He comes out of the grocery store and he wants his kids back.
But the three guys have pistols and rifles.
All right.
The three Chakthriyas.
And their point is, if I were you, I would just get in your van and drive away.
So he was outgunned.
You know, he had to surrender like that.
So after that, he developed a real hatred of Swami Bhaktipad because
he felt his wife loved Bhaktipad more than she loved him.
She didn't love him at all, actually.
They weren't a good match, and he was abusive to her.
So he goes to Los Angeles and eventually Los Angeles.
And while there, he bribes a member of the BBT.
That's the Bhaktipad Delta Book Trust.
Prabhupada started a book publishing company to publish his books.
And he's got like 49 books.
Mostly they're translations and commentary on Sanskrit and Bengali scripture.
So he bribes this employee to give him Swami Prabhupada's complete letters on microfish.
And he's reading through these letters.
And he discovers that Swami Prabhupada, who was the founder of the whole movement,
he wrote like dozens of letters criticizing the Swami Bhaktipad, his disciple.
And then he talked to other people who had lived at New Vrindavan,
and they told him stories of child abuse, illegal drug dealing to raise money to build
Prabhupada's palace, and also criminal activities such as the murder,
which took place in 1983, which I haven't really talked about.
Right.
So he started writing a book about all this crap going on at New Vrindavan.
And to make it short, the Chetri is at New Vrindavan,
the warrior class, and some of the Brahmins, the Sannyasi,
they decided this guy should be killed.
And they justified this because he was blaspheming the saintly spiritual master.
And in the Vedic scriptures, several places, it said that a blasphemer should be killed
with no punishment awarded to the executioner.
See, so they were like going back, and this ancient mythology, you know, it's like,
you know, they don't realize that they're living in a whole new society now, you know,
but that was the thing to reestablish this ancient culture.
That was one of the things, and they eventually, you know, caught up to the guy and killed him.
So it's like, it's like saying stone your kids to death because you found it in the Hebrew Bible,
but Christians don't do that.
You know, you could try, you know, to say, well, that's in our text.
But that's an interesting thing to try to found the ancient in modern time.
And you mentioned 1983, a murder that it seems like he caught wind of in these writings.
He caught wind that they knew about a murder.
And this could easily have been something that could have been given to the FBI or given to
some type of services that could have been involved to take the whole thing down.
What was this 1983 thing, if you don't mind me asking?
And yeah, just if you don't mind, fill us in on the story, because this is a very interesting
story, I expect that you go into detail in your books that really cover a lot of the detail that
we don't we don't hear today.
Yeah, of course.
I mean, killing for Christians, 600 pages, you know, so there's a lot of detail.
1983, this one New Vrindavan resident, his name was Chakradhari or Charles St. Dennis.
He was he was murdered.
And I mean, that's that's a story in itself, you know, the things that lead that he was murdered
by a New Vrindavan's chief enforcer.
His name was Tirta Thomas Drescher.
And I mean, there's a lot of reasons why this happened.
But probably the most the biggest reason is that this fellow Chakradhari
had this confrontation with the guru Swami Bhaktipad.
He had heard that Bhaktipad had been attending parties hosted by the Mexican workers.
See, New Vrindavan at that time, they they drove vans into Mexico and recruited cheap labor,
you know, and brought them illegally into the country.
And they'd give them an abandoned house to live in.
And they would the guys would make more money, you know, at New Vrindavan than they would in
Mexico so they could send money back to their families and stuff.
But they but they would have parties and at the parties, there'd be alcohol,
maybe cocaine, marijuana and stuff.
But see, those intoxicating pleasures are off limits to Krishna devotees that
when you're initiated, you take a vow, you can't even drink coffee or tea because
there's stimulants in them.
So anyway, he had heard from a reliable source that Bhaktipad had attended some of these parties.
And they were a good number of homosexual young men among the Mexican workers
because they're recruited by Kirtan Ananda's former lover in college,
who also was homosexual and he liked dark skinned young men.
So anyway, so Chakradhari, who was who was murdered in 83, he had a confrontation
about about this because the swamis not supposed to be doing this kind of stuff.
And I at the time, I had also heard something, but I just attributed it as a rumor.
I assumed it was just a rumor.
And in fact, my whole time there, you hear rumors, but with unless there's some proven
facts, you know, most of us just, but Chakradhari, he confronted him.
So there was an opportunity for one fellow hated this guy and he wanted to kill him because his
wife told him he had raped her, which is probably not true either.
So anyway, so Bhaktipad asked his chief enforcer to get with this guy and do a good job
make sure that, you know, whenever finds the body.
And yeah, so these these two guys tiered to and as accomplished, they shot him like
they used up the whole gun on the guy.
And Chakradhari is a big guy.
He's a strong guy, you know, and he kept coming coming at them.
So they had to use like a hammer to smash his head screwdrivers.
Oh my God, it was like really, really, really bad.
And this is all in the trial testimony.
You know, so, so they, they, so finally, you know, he's, he's dead and they put his body
in the Jeep and they had already dug a grave for him.
They built a dam on this creek on Newfoundupt property and dug a hole.
So they're going to bury the body under the creek.
That way dogs couldn't couldn't sniff it, you know, couldn't find out or an animal wouldn't
dig it up.
And as they're dragging him into the, and putting him in the hole, he, he, oh, he opens
his eyes and says, he says, wait, wait, don't do that.
You'll kill me or something like that.
He was still dead.
So they just like covered, covered him with dirt.
He was still breathing, you know, and then I mean, it was horrible, horrible, horrible
incidences.
So, and the police knew about this.
I mean, they knew that he had disappeared and they suspect that it was a murder,
but nobody had any details.
So it wasn't for three years when the FBI got involved after this murder in Los Angeles
of Selochan, that they were able to put the whole piece together and they got people to
talk, to talk about it, you know, so, and then I call this, I call this deranged devotion.
In fact, the subtitle of Killing for Krishna is the danger of deranged devotion.
And it's like, wow, you know, it's like, yeah, believe anything you want, you know,
and do anything you want and do it for Krishna and the spiritual master.
So, so this is Kirtan Ananda had his power over these people of charismatic relation
because of the mythology of that he himself had created with his followers.
Oh, this is so complex and there's so many layers.
Oh my God, it's like, yeah, that's why it's 10 volumes to write the gold guns in God
series because there's so much going on over, you know, 30 years of history.
As far as the murder, did they get people who were there actively murdering to speak
about this? They that were people that actually killed the guy that talked or was it people that
were, how did they find out these details? A few things, a few things. One is
okay, the 1983 murder that Nubrandhavan property.
When in 86,
Tirta, who was the chief enforcer, he was arrested.
And he was charged with the murder of Chakradhari in 1983, although they had nobody.
But his accomplice, all right, his accomplice agreed to talk
in return for a plea bargain. I think he got five years in prison and then a federal witness
protection program name changed and he and his family moved to another state.
That's what we think because no one's in the Christian movement has seen the guy
since he got out of prison. So he did speak about the 1983 murder and that's where we get
all these details about that I just described that they emptied the gun in him and used a
amber to hit his head. So he spoke about it. He was there. He was an accomplice in this murder.
And as far as the murder of Salochan in Los Angeles in 1986, Tirta had an accomplice
also there. His name was Krishna Katta or Jeffrey Briers and the police got him to talk.
Now Tirta, he was the chief enforcer who did both of the murders. He refused to talk, of course,
because he's a dedicated disciple of Swami Bhaktipad. He's going to protect his spiritual master,
even if he has to go to life in prison or the death chamber like that. And he did.
However, in 1993, Bhaktipad was caught in bed with one of his teenage male disciples.
And this news kind of spread around. Of course, half the people thought it was a rumor.
I believed it because I knew the fellow who saw it and I trusted him. So at this point,
Tirta in prison now, who's serving a life term in prison, he realizes that he was just duped,
thinking that his spiritual master was this great saintly person and the master.
I mean, he heard rumors. Most of us all heard rumors that he's messing around with boys or
young men, but we thought now he believes it to be fact. So then he did go and test
and he said, yes, Bhaktipad authorized the murder of Chakradhari and Silochana like that.
So I mean, it's a very sad, very sad chapter. In fact, probably the worst
chapter of the whole history of the Hare Krishna movement. It's been around for 50 years almost.
The chaos, drugs, sex, scandals, everything under the sun for a Game of Thrones episode,
you know? This would make for a heck of a series if this was on Netflix or something.
Let me ask you this. The guy who's the spiritual master, isn't that also who was your spiritual
master? Yes, Kirtan Ananda Swami Bhaktipad. He was my spiritual master. Tirta, who was the chief
and fourth, he and I are God brothers. And for a time around the 2000s, I did correspond with him
in prison. We shared about 200 letters between us. Because I was doing research and he needed a friend
too. I mean, he's got few friends. A few people, hardly anyone ever visits him.
But after my book, Kulitra Krishna, came out, I haven't heard a word from him because
it's an honest book. And all this time he's been still covering for some of the conspirators.
So he still buys into the mythology somewhat. So even finding out his spiritual master is
full of it, the whole religion itself, the mythology itself, still had a hold on him,
you think? Oh, of course. Yeah, definitely. I mean, there is a, when I first came to
New Vrindavan and I began studying and hearing about the, they call it the philosophy of
Krishna consciousness. It was kind of an eye-opening experience to me because if you see the world
through this lens, it explains lots of things like karma, for instance. If you do good in the
future, you're going to get a reward. Or if you do bad, you're going to get a result. So
like you think, why are some children born with a silver spoon and others suffer greatly?
It's like, well, it's because they're past lives like this. So I mean, of course, none of this can
be ever proven. It's a belief system. But nonetheless, there can be some satisfaction
in that. I'm sure many Christians also have satisfaction in their belief that Christ died.
Or my grandma just died and I will see her again. Even if you are making it up, even if it is
fictive in your own mind, there is satisfaction and a relief of the grief of thinking this isn't
the end. This isn't goodbye. This is just see you later. And there's a sense of satisfaction that
comes from that myth. But as far as it being a fact, that's a whole nother question of what is
reality. And this leads me up to this point in this interview. I hope we can have more because
there is so much I know for a fact that we could discuss diving into your book series
and discussing these matters is I want to talk to you, the man, and ask you, where do you stand now
after all you witnessed? Where are you at today in your thinking on all of the spiritual and the
mythology and the cult and has it changed your perspective? Now examining the history and looking
at these are just men. These are just people who, where are you at today? Tell us your personal
position if you don't mind. Right now. Right now. Yeah, yeah, for sure. What happened to change your
mind and where are you at today? Well, let me just back up just a little bit. I was raised a Roman
Catholic, but I wasn't devout or anything, and never really thought about religion or Jesus
like that. I went to Catholic schools too for 12 years. But when I went off to college in Missouri,
I grew up in New Jersey, moved out to Missouri. Basically, I think I went to Mass twice. And
then I said, I don't need this. And so then as I explained earlier, there was a time
in my senior year in college where I was realizing things aren't going the way I was hoping they'd
be going as far as finding a meaningful and really wonderful relationship with a woman or even career
wise, I was understanding my limitations and what I was not able to do musically. And so then I was
kind of uncertain about my career and I was really ripe for joining joining the cult with a charismatic
leader like Kirtan Anandaswamy. So I came there and I and I and I test, you know, to try it out,
tried out the belief system and the practice. And I liked it, you know, pretty, pretty well.
But then about 14, 15 years later, I began to have doubts about my spiritual master. He was
acting, saying things that were pretty irrational. And I wasn't, I don't know why I wasn't like the
fanatical cult member that, you know, whatever the guru says, you just bow down and say, yes,
master, you know, whatever, even if it sounds like crazy. In fact, in fact, when Donald Trump first
began campaigning for the nomination back in whatever it was 2015 or something, I said, oh,
my God, this guy's just like my spiritual master, Bakhtipad. You can say or do any damn thing.
And the people bow down and worship him, you know, yeah, you know, like, yeah, it was like,
you know, I mean, he'd say, he'd say like, of course, we all know the fact checking on Trump,
I think it's like 25,000 things he said that were like falsehoods and stuff like this.
But, but, but Kirtanana was the same way. And somehow, after, after 15 years, I had, I had
begun to have some doubts in him. And then when that Winnebago incident came, when he was,
when one of my godbrothers observed him in bed with his young Malaysian disciple,
I pretty much severed, severed my attachment to him. Of course, it takes a little while to do that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's not an immediate thing. But, but, but it was fairly, fairly quickly.
In fact, after I had, I had met with him in private, after I did some research myself,
you know, and talked to some of these, these boys who were now by that time young men.
And I basically challenged him. I said, I said, you know, this is what, what they say is true
or not. And he denied everything. And I knew he was lying because I've done my own research. So
that's basically when I rejected him. But I didn't reject Krishna consciousness, you know,
even after I moved to Pittsburgh, I would still chant on the beads. And that's a wonderful thing.
And I was mostly vegetarians. Well, I was still, you know, but, but as time, as time went on,
and I discovered more and more about the nature of cult mentality, about the nature of the charismatic
relationship between the guru and the disciple, and seeing all the psychological factors that,
that, and also seeing so many contradictions spoken even by the founder of the Hare Krishna moment.
You know, I said, this guy's not an infallible, perfect being, you know, all knowing,
as so many people, you know, still believe. And as far as karma and reincarnation, you know,
this, so, so there was a gradual transformation myself, I became
an advocate of the scientific method. In other words, I'm not going to believe anything unless
there's really good evidence for this. You know, evidence is so, so important. And so, you know,
I mean, there's no evidence for karma. You know, it's really chance, you know,
and, you know, reincarnation is just a belief, you know, can never, can never be, never be proven,
at least to date. And so, you know, I'm not a Hare Krishna devotee anymore. However,
I do have friends who still are, and I can relate to them. And some of them can relate to me, not,
not everyone can. But, but I believe all the stuff which is unproven is really myth. And
it's okay. It's I don't mind believing in a myth, but, but speaking for myself.
And it was very interesting that the Krishna's talk about liberation. All right. And that is
transcending the material world. Liberation is like an eye-opening experience, enlightenment,
perhaps. And it was interesting, because once I began to only believe
things which had strong evidence, that was an enlightening experience for me.
It was like liberation. I know, and I have friends who, who, you know, are still involved
with the Krishna's and some of them drink alcohol from time to time. And they, it gives them like
terrible guilt. You know, and, and it's to me, that's, that's like bondage. I mean, I mean, yeah,
of course, if you become addicted, all right, that's not a good thing at all. You know, but,
but to feel terrible guilt, you know, if you look, look at,
uh, as a woman on the street or something, and you get aroused or something like that,
that's something else which is sinful. Right. You know, and, and, and for me, it's,
it's not, it's not a big deal. You know, it's normal. It doesn't make me, it doesn't give me
terrible guilt, you know, and I'm not sure I ever had terrible guilt, even with the Krishna's,
because some things I didn't even, I mean, I was pretty devout, but there were, there were some
things I, I never believed, like, like Prabhupada, he says that, that the moon landing was a hoax,
because in, in the scriptures, the Hindu scriptures, supposedly the moon is further
from the earth than the sun. See, it's, it's a, what is it called a, not heliocentric earth,
the earth centric, geocentric universe, I think, you know, and, and they believe this to be fact,
you know, all the, the cosmology, which was written thousands of years ago, you know,
before the invention of telescopes and stuff, and, and they still believe that. I, I never,
I never believed that, but it wasn't important for, for my life, you know, at New Madhava. And so I
could deal, deal with that cognitive dissonance, I think it's called. Wow. There's so much here.
I'm, I'm with you on the scientific method and feeling a freedom and kind of realizing,
hold on, what are we? Why are we experiencing these things? And why are we creating this,
this guilt over a myth or mythology in our head when we should have, at best, a mythology
that fits to the reality of what seems to be sensible in the world around us, rather than,
you know, I looked and I felt it in my heart toward a girl or, you know, come on, get out of
here. That's, that's overboard. So I really do appreciate you coming on today. Let's continue
this discussion. I want the audience watching this to let us know what you think in the
comment section. We have never embarked this topic on myth vision thus far. And this is our
first time. You have many books. I hope everybody will go and check those out. Where should we start?
Well, if you're interested in my books, just go to Amazon and go to my author page because there's
I'm saying which book though, which book, I have it visible in front of everybody right now. They
can all see your books right now. Which one should they start with and, and what order should they
work? Well, I would suggest starting with Killing for Krishna. Okay. That first one published.
And that's, that's about the murder of Salo Chan in Los Angeles in 1986. 11 Naked Emperors was the
second book. And that's deals with the Hare Krishna movement as a whole, how 11 senior disciples
took over after the passing of the founder of Swami Prabhupada. And if you're still interested
after those two, then you could start the gold guns and gods one, two, three, four, five.
Wow. By the way, I'm working on six right now. These are 10 volume, I propose 10 volume series.
This is amazing. I hope everybody goes down, gets you a copy of Killing for Krishna.
Let us know what you think about this. I'm excited. I really am. And following on Amazon. So when new
stuff comes out, you know it. Thank you so much, Henry. I really do appreciate your time. Is there
any words of encouragement you would leave for someone who's in a cult? And your story is so
relatable. I don't care what kind of cult it is. It's like this common trope of everyone who goes
through cults. What words of encouragement would you give to someone who's going, going through
this experience right now and they're coming out? Well, if you're coming out, just be brave.
And follow your intelligence. Use your intelligence. You're going to have emotional
withdrawal symptoms. In fact, some of my friends who I never met until after the books came out,
they read the books and they wrote to me and stuff. One of them has not been with the
Krishna's for 20 years and he was still seeing a psychologist like every week about the trauma he
experienced and trying to overcome. After he read Killing for Krishna, he said he's only got to go
see the psychologist once a month or every other month now because it is such a healing,
healing process for him. So just be brave. Do what you got to do guys and I think everything
in the long run will turn out much for the better. Thank you so much ladies and gentlemen. Hit the
like button. Don't forget to get a copy of his book. Join MythVision's Patreon because Patreon
members are seeing this first and never forget. We are MythVision.
