Music
More humane and humanistic understanding of ancient religion.
And I hope that your viewers understand this simply isn't a parateef
and that they can seek out fuller meals in other ways.
I think we need to put before them reference works that allow them to make their own judgments
and to hone their critical acumen so that they don't fall into the pits of bad religion.
Let me scoot in a little here with this.
Oh, you want to move it forward?
Yeah, I want to make sure they can hear Dennis, most of all.
That's the big E, because Dennis is a kind, soft-spoken gentleman.
Well, I'm going to be soft-spoken tonight, too.
That's fine, because I'm exhausted.
Oh, this has been an amazing week.
And not even just because of all the amazing food we had.
Dennis McDonald can cook.
He made some really excellent meals while we were here.
I'm very grateful for that. It's an excellent host.
I've learned a lot as well. A lot of useful stuff.
I think every video we did has got some really neat stuff in it.
It's pretty good.
I like it when someone can produce content like this in bulk
and then really zero in on the stuff that needs to be said
and then giving us the opportunity to spell it out.
Having both of us here has been super helpful, too.
Oh, my gosh, you're not lying.
It was better than if you had come here and then come to my place
and done it separately. It was so much better having all three of us.
And like you said, you had cobwebs on ideas you read 50 years ago
that Carrier kind of brought out of you.
You brought out a Carrier, so there's stuff that you went back to grad school
and went, oh, my God, I remember reading that.
Whoa! You guys like Doug for...
And we know some people in common from our previous schooling and such.
That was awesome.
And you were a great host, too.
Thank you.
So we appreciate that.
I know I'm hyper. I know I always have a super amount of energy.
Oh, I like that. That's good.
When I get home, though, I'm not.
This is all gun-ho and I'm way more chill.
I'm all chill and soft-spoken.
Well, I am definitely a go-guy, but I don't put it into overdrive like this.
This costs money, this costs time, this costs energy,
this costs the sacrifice of my wife and kids,
not being around their father, their husband.
For a week.
And for a week.
But this history that we're making for that seven-day sacrifice
is worth what we're doing, and my wife believes in what we're doing.
So I can't have a better support team.
Yeah, you've collected about a year or two's worth of content.
You'll be able to make use of it. It's fantastic.
Well, hopefully, and I say this out loud, we've got a super chat.
I'm going to jump in there and get it.
But I hope to eventually figure out, as we talked about a conference idea,
or even in a...
Reserving a room at some point next to some conference that's already got the money
because we don't have the financial backing,
but maybe we can afford at a conference to have you scholars go to this little hotel
and we all sit and have a spiel where you come on for 30 minutes to an hour.
It's hard to organize things that complicated,
but sure, yeah, keep me in mind.
Not right now, though. Don't even think about it.
No, not even.
Couldn't pay him enough.
Richard, Braveheart Fighting Arms, thank you for the super chat.
Richard, what is your opinion on the book The Darkening Age by Catherine Nixie?
How many manuscripts were lost during the Christian Purge?
Yeah, we answered this question, but I can't remember if we recorded or if it was a live chat.
Well, I don't remember either.
Yeah, I don't remember which it was.
I mean, this is a more simply phrased question.
And I mean, it's going to sound redundant, but I'll say again.
It wasn't... I mean, the calling it a purge is inaccurate, right?
So there were very, very few manuscripts that Christians actively sought out to destroy.
The loss of manuscripts is principally caused by two things.
One is simple disinterest.
Christians were more interested in some things rather than others.
They were more interested in declining resources, especially in the West.
The collapse of Western civilization left them with extremely few resources to preserve manuscripts.
And in the East, they had more resources, but still were making choices that we wouldn't have made.
And even that got ground down over centuries, because as the Byzantine Empire declined and eventually fell.
So the amount, we have less than 1% of what was published in the Roman Empire at least.
If we count Hellenistic Greece and the Roman Empire, we have less than 1% for sure.
And in the other video, I don't remember which one it was.
I gave some reasons how we can calculate that, but it's...
Almost everything was lost.
It's an outrageous amount of stuff that was lost.
But it wasn't Christians actively throwing...
It wasn't like Nazi book burnings or anything like that.
That's not what happened.
There were some.
Some books, like the Gospel of Peter, we have a reference to them hunting them down and getting rid of them.
But for example, and then there are other examples, magic books and things like magical treatises and such.
But some heretical things, obviously.
And then I went into a bunch of examples of things that were probably hidden in back rooms for a while
and survived in only one manuscript or something after time.
But yeah, it's partly the fact that Christianity didn't recover the economy of the world after it collapsed.
And partly it's because Christians just weren't interested in the things that we're interested in.
So they preserved very little.
And they devoted a lot of research into preserving religious texts that they wanted.
Let me tilt this down just to smidge.
So technically, it's not like this conspiracy theory totality.
And they asked specifically about Nixie.
I have not read Nixie's book, so I don't know how she frames it or what she says or anything like that.
So I've read reviews and I've heard people talk about Nixie's book, but I can't speak as to what she herself has said.
So I can't comment on Nixie in that regard.
Thank you, Braveheart Fighting Arms.
I appreciate the super chat, seriously.
And the question, it helps out like trips like this.
Dennis, what do you think about Richard Carrier?
Richard Carrier is a brilliant young man who wrote a wonderful dissertation, which was published as a book,
and develops my Mimesis theory, but he does so with a different kind of spin,
which I think is perfectly legitimate, especially in some topics.
And the difference is this.
I argue for direct conscious and strategic imitations of Greek poetry in many Jewish and Christian texts.
Richard traced the notion of the appearance, tradition and empty tombs in Greco-Roman literature,
but was less interested in direct Mimesis of models than the influence of what he would call a mytheme
that has various manifestations, including in the myths about Romulus.
We have a number of stories in histories where you have absent characters,
cenotaphs, that is empty tombs, and so on.
Unfortunately, his work is too radical for him to have gotten a job in the discipline.
I don't want a job in the discipline.
I have students, some students who have worked with me, who are really fine scholars,
and I'm proud of them, have gone into academic positions,
but some have been allured into academic administration instead of teaching,
and some have not been able to get jobs.
Michael Kochanash recently has a job in Belgium.
Ruben Dupertwee has an administrative job at Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas.
But Richard Miller has had trouble finding an academic position.
Fortunately, he's also a brilliant computer programmer
that tends to have a better salary than a seminary professor like myself.
But he continues to do research, he continues to publish.
I'm very proud of him.
Right now, he has written some really wonderful reviews defending Mimesis criticism
and his modified version of Mimesis criticism, which I actually encourage,
because both of those models actually happen in the creation of religious literature and antiquity.
That is, you have some direct imitations,
but you have some that I would call to be poetic radiation in the culture
that influences prose from many sources, and the Romulus tradition is a good example.
Thank you.
We've got a super chat.
Mark Smith, man, thanks for the super chat, bro.
What do you guys think of Acharya S. in Astro Theology?
I don't know if Dennis knows anything about her.
I don't.
A.K.A. Dorothy Murdoch.
Acharya S. is what she published under, her as a pseudonym until later in life.
She's deceased now.
I mean, I've been pretty open about the fact that I think she's a crank,
and her Astro Theology, Astro Theology in and of itself is not crank.
A good example of professional peer-reviewed Astro Theology is David Ulanzi's book on Mithraism.
So if you want to see how to argue Astro Theology legitimately, go get Ulanzi's book.
Ulanzi's book has been criticized, so don't assume that he's right about everything,
but he's generally agreed to be right about the Astro Theology stuff.
There's some other stuff that Beck and some others have criticized him on,
and I think in those debates sometimes Beck is right and sometimes Ulanzi is.
But there's no Astro Theology in the origins of Christianity.
Even if somehow it got in later, like in the Middle Ages,
it does not explain the origins of Christianity.
And her entire theory involved a conspiracy theory of Alexandrian monks in the second century,
and there's a bunch of aspects to her thing.
But none of the Astro Theology stuff actually holds up by any legitimate method.
Like Devil's Pulpit, I'm sure you've heard of.
There was a pastor, or he was like a heretical pastor who'd been kicked out, went to jail.
He started teaching. The whole New Testament is this allegory of the sun, moon, and stars.
Right, right.
And he got serious persecution from the Christians, I wonder.
I mean, that's stupid. No one should get persecuted for something like that.
But no, the theory isn't true.
Christianity was not an Astro Theological sect when it originated.
It was a Jewish Apocalyptic sect when it originated.
So these ideas come from scripture and scriptural numismatics,
and scriptural numerology, not from stellar or Astro Theology.
And even if it involved cosmology, that's different, right?
Cosmology and Astro Theology are not the same thing.
Astro Theology is Astrology-specific aspects of astronomy relate to the structure of the religion,
which is true of Mithraism.
You can show an Astro Theological basis for Mithraism, or Roman Mithraism, I should be specific.
But not for Christianity.
Thank you, Mark. I hope that answered your question.
I really do appreciate Super Chat, my friend.
And I apologize to everyone if I feel, if I sound very low energy, and that's because I am.
Can you just blame me? I don't know.
Yeah, he's worked us to death. We've done so many shoots for so many days.
The fatigue has finally caught up with me, basically.
I'm not lying. He's not lying, sorry. He's not lying.
I've really been pushing guys. You pushed me a couple of mornings, too.
I mean, I was late one morning. I'm like, what's up, man?
Well, we just wanted to make sure you were alive, you know.
Yeah, I was tired.
And this, let's not get crazy. This was still early in the morning.
It wasn't that late a morning.
No, 8, 17 or something. I remember it was something like that.
Yeah, it wasn't much later than 8.
Well, we would get up. I want everyone to know what we did, right?
They're going to see the content, but we would get up.
Ask Crack of Dawn. You know, it was really interesting.
Dennis was up before all of us every morning, of course.
Getting breakfast started and figuring out what we might want to eat.
Get a coffee going.
You know, Carrier has a certain ritual.
He has every morning until lunchtime.
And then next thing you know, we're recording till Richard's like,
I got to eat.
We were recording since about 8.30 or 9 every day.
Every day.
So starting from.
And then then we break for lunch and then we resume again.
And then we do some of the nights we were doing lives like this.
And that's what it's been doing since Monday.
Well, he's been doing it longer than me.
He did it all Monday. I was driving all Monday.
So I still have exhaustion points for that.
But yeah.
We had fun. We got a lot.
I can't even imagine. I don't know how many.
You've got an amazing trove of stuff in there.
And a lot of them just really folded in really well.
We have a lot of given back, back and forth, back and forth.
Back and forth and structure.
Loops around where we sew up the point by the end.
It's not just random rambling.
Many of these videos have turned out really well.
Yeah. There's some passion.
There's like a lot of working together on so much.
I think people will appreciate it a lot.
Got a super chat, couple super chats.
Oh yeah.
Mitch, what's up bro?
Appreciate you man.
I saw your comments earlier on the Patreon post that I made exclusive to you guys.
And I appreciate your compliment man.
I seriously do.
Thanks for the super chat as well.
What were the most historically interesting heretical Christian sex
that survived the fall of the western empire mid-fifth century?
Any standouts?
That's an interesting question.
It is. And it's outside my field of study.
So I really couldn't answer that question.
Okay. So since you can't quite answer that specifically
and be as accurate as like what is the most,
what are some heretical sex though if we go down in history?
I know we have...
So my answer is going to be boring.
People will be disappointed.
So I'd mention this.
I think I mentioned on one of the videos we recorded.
There is a mention.
I mentioned this because I cited in my book The Scientist in the Early Roman Empire.
And I have a whole chapter in there about the declining interest in science among Christians.
Scientific values in particular.
They were against curiosity.
They were against empiricism.
And they were against progressivism.
The idea that you can make progress and knowledge about nature.
And there's a lot of hostility to Greek philosophy and natural philosophy in particular.
And in the early days, this is like the first three centuries.
They warmed a little bit to the classical tradition after that, but still not enough.
But there's an interesting passage.
And of course to do this, I have to cite every example including any possible counter examples.
And there's a counter example that unfortunately is an example of a heresy that was quashed.
And we know literally nothing whatever about this heresy except the single passage
in which someone is gloating over the fact that they suppressed the literature of the sect.
And the crime of the sect was that they took a great deal of interest
and used the works of Galen Aristotle and a few other significant philosophers.
And that was piqued my interest.
Like, I want to meet these Christians.
Where is their literature?
This is very interesting.
Like, why Galen?
Because there's a lot of interesting stuff about what they'd be interested in.
They had something about the interest in the logic.
So Galen wrote famous treatises on logic that was some of the most advanced treatises on logic ever written in the ancient world.
And other things.
So just the fact that they're reading Galen is incredible.
And also there was the fact that they're interested in Aristotle in particular rather than Plato, for example.
And there were some other names, and I think Euclid and some other interesting names
that were in the list of things that they were studying and they were encouraging the study of,
I want to know more about that sect, right?
But we don't.
It was so successfully quashed that all we have is this one reference to it.
Dennis?
I have my own answer, but it is not...
The first part of that answer is not directly an answer to the question.
That is, I think, one of the most interesting movements that became heretical.
But it died out before this time frame is Marxism.
Oh, yeah.
And it's a very intelligent form of Gnosticism that has multiple intellectual strands.
It has a particular ethic and understanding of the Hebrew Bible.
And early Christians had an opportunity, especially in Rome, to choose Marcian over what became orthodoxy.
And I think much more should be said about Marcian.
By the way, we know a lot about Marcian, and it's not that we need...
I think we need to revisit the evidence, but basically this has been well-worked territory
and is well-known, but it was really a quite fascinating heretical movement.
The one that fits the time frame here, in my view, that's most interesting is Manichaeism.
And it actually had quite a bit of traction for centuries.
And part of it is that it has Chinese influence.
It has Greek influence.
It has what we would call orthodox Christian influence.
And it was one of the major purveyors of Christian apocrypha,
especially the apocryphal acts of the apostles.
And we have a life of mani, as a matter of fact,
that probably reflects some historical, real historical interest.
And it became a major challenge to the church because it had its own intellectuals,
it had its own church structure, it had a very clear ethical...
which was, by the way, oppressive to women and to some extent,
but also liberating women to some extent.
And this became a problem for some of the orthodox,
because women were having too much authority in some cases.
They used the New Testament, but they also used non-canonical texts and treated them as scripture.
And this is one reason, by the way, and we actually know it
because of second-hand literature by the orthodox,
that this is one of the reasons the apocryphal acts of apostles did not survive.
It's because they were so successful among the outsiders.
And again, there's a lot of work done on manicism.
One of the challenges of manicism is that so many of the sources are in esoteric languages for most scholars.
So we have some Greek texts, but we also have a number of texts in various languages,
such that some have said no one can be linguistically incompetent to deal with all manician materials.
The very fact that we have such great geographic and linguistic distribution
shows that this religion had quite a bit of traction.
It's quite amazing, actually.
That's a good point.
Thanks to that super chat.
Sean A. Garrison says, I bought another carrier book today because he's such a trooper.
I tried to think of a question, but I'm too wasted.
Trying to catch up.
Are you having any wine in your glass, Dennis?
Do we have any Scotch left?
There's Scotch.
You want Scotch?
Yeah, I'd like a touch.
So we're going to cheers.
And this is a cheers to you, Sean, for the super chat, my friend.
Oh yeah, you got to pour it first.
He's short.
No, go ahead.
I'm listening.
Yeah, there you go.
He's celebrating.
He's doing a ritual act of Manichaeism right now, so it's an esoteric thing.
The name Dennis comes from Dionysus.
Right?
All right.
Cheers, gentlemen.
Hey.
To my sparkling water.
And they're...
Piragrino.
Piragrino.
There you go.
Thanks, Sean.
That was to you, man.
Thanks.
All right.
Let's see what else we have here.
A couple of super chats.
Pony No More says, the meaning...
The mine ad, sorry.
The mine ad striking the rock to get water in Bacchai reminds me of Moses doing the same.
Was this a common trope in ancient literature?
Let's start with Dennis, and then this is definitely in your alley.
I don't know the answer to that, actually.
I haven't researched it, so...
In one of our segments, I might have talked about magic wands and antiquity.
Right.
And you find them already in Homer.
You find them with Hermes.
You find them with Asclepius and Hygienea.
Hygienea.
I think that was in our second life.
It was the Catechias.
The Catechias versus the Asclepius staff.
And we have Christian art in which Jesus is holding a wand when he's performing a miracle.
And so this is a very common trope.
It's like Harry Potter having his wand and various wands that do different things.
So I don't think here we have a memetic tradition.
I think we have a cultural tradition that somehow identifies wands with magic.
But one thing that's really quite fascinating about these two is in these cases,
the wand is in the hands of what we call a donor deity.
Not all deities were donor deities.
And the famous donor deities in Greece were Dionysus who supplied liquids of various kinds.
Not water and wine and so on.
And Demeter who gave grains.
And so Demeter is responsible for all food and Dionysus for drink.
So Moses striking the rock is similar to what you have in the Bacchai with striking a rock in the desert.
Now then we have the relative dating of the Bacchai and the books of Moses.
And the Bacchai is written toward the end of the 5th century, beginning of the 4th century, something like that.
And it's probably his last play.
Now the book, the story about Moses striking the rock is variously dated.
But it could very well be after the Bacchai.
So this may be a place where there's a consciousness of a trope where Moses becomes a donor deity in the wilderness
supplying Israel with water that works similarly with the Bacchai.
Now one of the fascinating things is when one finds in the Hebrew Bible and in the Greek world similar mythemes.
And I would say that's what this is.
The magic wand concept goes even back to Sumer and Babylon and stuff.
That part is right. There's no doubt about that.
So the same way that you have the flood myth that's in the Bible is also a version of it ends up in Greece.
But of course their common ancestor is the Gilgamesh epic.
The magic wand stories might have had the same origin, like originated back in Sumerian times and then radiates separately out of the different cultures adjacent.
And we know in Homer already Hermes has a magical wand that puts people to sleep and so on.
So that's just one little methodological note.
When one finds parallels between the ancient Near East and Greece it's important to say in which social and geographical culture
is it more likely that the story emerged?
To give an example, just a very simple example.
When one has a flood story it's not coming from Greece and Rome.
A flood story is coming from Egypt or the Mesopotamian area.
If you have a sailing story the sailing story is not coming from Palestine.
It's coming from the Greek world or maybe the Roman world.
When you find a man-to-man combat.
More likely Greek or Phoenician. The Romans were not great sailors until later in their relative history.
When you find a man-to-man combat you're more likely to have that myth theme coming from the Greek world than you are from the Middle East.
This has been formalized by classicists but I think those who are interested in ancient religion need to pay attention.
It's possible to look in the myth itself and make an assessment about what is the most natural environment for it.
Super Chat from Jay Crone says, did the twelve disciples start the religion or was it other people later on?
They wouldn't have been called disciples at the time, whether Jesus existed or not.
But I think so. That would be my assumption.
I would say Kaphos is the principal or the pillars, Kaphos, James and John were the principal movers.
But certainly some sort of council of twelve or quorum of twelve was part of that movement from the beginning.
More or less, yeah.
Thank you.
I appreciate the Super Chat Jay. Marcus Gonzalez, thanks for the Super Chat.
I don't see a comment just showing love.
Let me scroll back up because it refreshes.
There's a Super Chat.
Look it down, look it down.
Great job, all of you.
Thank you so much for organizing this Derrick.
Richard and Dennis are amazing people.
Thank you for everything.
Oh, nice.
Thanks for saying that. I appreciate it.
Thank you, Marcus.
It makes us feel like our exhaustion is worth it.
Yeah, they're going to sleep like babies.
This asshole is gone.
I'm glad this content is liked and viewed and gets influenced and that our knowledge can spread.
It's not just going to die with us.
Oh, it's definitely not.
The world is going to hear about this.
I am Toki Wartooth.
I hope I'm saying that right.
Thank you for the Super Chat.
I learned over the last few years from you gentlemen how most of the ancient world did not trust rhetoric or use logic like in the modern age.
Yeah.
Before you answer, let me restart this.
I didn't do this last night.
I should have because then they're like...
All right.
Well, so they just learned that this is the case.
Yeah, that was actually, they call it the Greek miracle, but it was actually a fairly unique development of the Greeks.
We have something similar happening in China, but it didn't go to full flower the way it did in Greece and then into Rome.
But yeah, like the development of systematic logic and the development of rhetoric as a science are unique Greek developments.
Everything else after that has been influenced by that or building on that.
The Chinese had a really impressive intellectual, analytical environment, but they never systematized logic or math or anything like that.
Interesting.
Thank you.
Justin Hooper, I hope I'm saying that right.
Thank you for the Super Chat, my friend.
I really do appreciate it showing the love.
Cade Welles back from Moore.
She says, Dennis, I asked a similar question yesterday, so please forgive me.
But are there any jokes in Homer?
Or is there anything that looks like it could have been a joke, but the nuance has been lost?
Oh gosh.
Homer is so culturally informed that things that are funny to us are not necessarily funny to angels.
And I can give you an example.
This is good.
When lame Hephaestus runs through the halls, people laugh at him in derision.
When someone sneezes, people think that's terrific and they laugh at him.
Homer is so embedded in culture that it's hard to know.
But I do think you can appeal to irony in ancient texts to see the playfulness of the text.
And in fact, they are humorous in some cases.
So I would say that a reservoir, and it's a rich reservoir, by the way, of irony in ancient literature, can be understood as jokes.
In antiquity, we don't have a particular word for joke.
We do have a word for a, it's similar to a joke, but it's something like a piteous or something.
It's a trick.
Something that amuses children.
Something that amuses children.
It's a trick.
And we have some examples of them, and some of them are allegories.
I'll tell you one of my favorite stories, which usually is considered to be a joke.
I consider it to be an ironic allegory.
In the Acts of John, John, with his disciples, pull into Ephesus and he checks into a hotel.
And when he's there, the bed that he's got is full of bedbugs.
And he tells the bedbugs to scram, and the bedbugs leave the bed, go down the bedposts and walk in marching streets.
So the disciple has a, the apostle has a good night of sleep.
And when he gets up, then he calls them all back and they come back into the bed.
Now, obviously that's a hysterical, you know, a really fun story.
It's not in the Bible, I grant you, but it's an example of having a playful allegory.
But the allegory actually is a platonic allegory because Socrates thought that people would be reincarnated in various ways.
And among the ways they could be incarnated is into bedbugs or into ants.
And so they have actual mentalities.
And so these ants have more obedience to the Lord than mortals do.
And we know that because one of the associates of John who goes into this hotel is a prostitute.
And we know in the Homerics, in the Platonic Circle, there were at least two prostitutes that played an important role.
Another of the people who is there is Aristarchus.
Well, we know that there's an Aristarchus in the Platonic Circle.
So a intellectual reader would read that story and say, oh, what fun,
but recognize that this is a spoof on the Socrates notion of reincarnation.
I can tell a joke. It's not from Homer.
So there's a story in ancient literature about, so Socrates had a bunch of disciples
and they all kind of broke off and did their own thing.
Two of them who didn't get along were Plato and Diogenes.
Diogenes went on to found cynicism, sort of like the ultimate anarchy hippie religion or philosophy.
And Plato went on to do Platonism, right?
And Plato's trying to be this brilliant analytical philosopher and someone's challenging him to like,
how do you define a man?
He says, a featherless biped.
They're insisting on featherless biped. That covers it.
And then Diogenes is just like, God, these people are so stupid.
I really hate these people.
So he plucked a chicken and ran into Plato's class and held it up and said, behold a man!
And then at which Plato said, what does he say, with toenails or something like that?
It's like a featherless biped with certain kind of toenails.
That's the definition of man.
Just to rule out the plucked chicken.
There are other jokes in Plato too, by the way.
I bet. Thank you guys.
Troy Miller says, it is a heresy to super chat without a question.
So I'm not asking a question.
My man, Troy, thank you for that heresy, my friend.
Troy, oh, we can talk about Troy.
I know, right?
You guys start getting his brain going and you're going to hear everything under the sun pertaining to the Homer.
Oh, they're going to be excited to see what we have.
Mark Smith super chatted. We got quite a few here.
So I think the story of Hera seducing Zeus in the Iliad was probably meant to be humorous because of the self-absorbed and foolish way Zeus reacts.
Oh, absolutely. That's a great example.
And you have other examples of jokes.
For example, Hephaestus catching his wife Aphrodite and Hermie and Ares in the act of love-making.
And he captures them and he wants to keep them.
And then even the gods stand around and laugh at it.
So, yeah, you get a lot of jokes in the Homer epics.
Thank you for the super chat.
Yagaios says, was the name Jesus Christ used for Jewish rebellion leaders?
Like the name Pharaohs was used for Egyptian kings?
Used implies like a regular pattern of discourse.
I wouldn't put it that way.
At least I don't have any evidence of that.
But remember, Christ just means anointed.
So obviously that was a word widely in use and also just meant Messiah, right?
So it's just a Greek translation of the word Messiah.
So, yeah, was Messiah a concept that people claimed to be a Messiah or claim others were a Messiah?
Jesus is just Joshua, right?
So it's actually one of the most common Jewish names.
But it's also, it refers to the Joshua, right?
The famous Joshua who conquered Israel, the founder of Israel as a nation.
And then there's, it also means God's savior.
So someone could claim the name Joshua in theory.
If they wanted to claim they were God's savior, they could assume the name.
But also if you wanted to assume, you wanted people to think that you're the new Joshua, the new conqueror of Israel, you might do this.
Now I mentioned in one of the videos we talked about that Josephus, several scholars have noticed this and published it.
But Josephus has several characters that he describes who are clearly, he never calls them Jesus Christ.
He never uses either Joshua or Christ to refer to them.
But he describes what they did.
And they're clearly modeling themselves as Joshua's because they, like they would do something that Joshua did like part the Jordan or top of the walls of Jerusalem.
They would claim to be able to do one of these things.
And so they're all doing things that Joshua did.
So they're clearly like trying to, at least the way Josephus is telling the story.
They're all trying to represent themselves as Joshua's, new Joshua's who would reconquer Israel.
And as such they were representing themselves as messiahs who would, you know, free Israel from their conquerors.
So they are, and the way they're portraying themselves are as Jesus Christ, you could say that.
Did they themselves ever use those words?
We don't have any evidence of that.
Even Josephus doesn't use the words, but the concepts are clearly there.
These are a bunch of Jesus Christ's in Josephus using the descriptive words that they're clearly trying to go for.
So that would be the most that I could answer that question with.
I want to go back to the previous chat who mentioned Hera's seduction of Zeus.
It not only is a clever story, but it's one that attracted a Jewish imitation.
And we have it in the book of Judith.
When Judith wants to seduce Halifernes, she goes through a ritual of adornment that includes jewelry and washing, anointing, ointments, and a garment.
And you can actually put the story of the seduction of Halifernes right with what's going on with Judith adorning herself with what Hera does.
And it's quite clear.
Now what happens to Halifernes?
He has his head chopped off and brought back to the city and displayed.
Well, that's the story of the bakai.
So here you have a very famous Jewish story that is imitating a Homeric epic and an Athenian play in order to glorify the execution of Halifernes.
It really is an amazing story.
Deutost Priest, he's back.
Your takes on what happened to Jesus' father, based on how Moses and Aaron had to keep God from killing off the entire Jewish race, I'm thinking Jesus lost it and turned him into an oxen cart.
I don't know if this is a deliberate or accidental allusion to the infancy gospels, but there are actual gospels that were developed in which the toddler Jesus actually does shit like this.
I mean, he scares the hell out of his parents and his father tries to diplomatically beg him to stop killing people in town because as a kid, someone would bump into him and he would curse him and he would die.
He'd kill his teacher for being mean to him.
And literally the parents of the town came to Joseph and Mary and were saying, please, please tell your kid to stop killing our children.
What kind of nightmare horror story is this?
Jesus on Nightmare Street.
Well, it's all to display how powerful and absolute God is.
So Jesus as God is like, it's kind of a realistic depiction of if you had someone as arrogant and omnipotent as God and you put it in the mind of a child, what do you expect to happen?
So you get a Twilight Zone episode out of it, right?
Just two really quick responses.
One is, in the Iliad, it's a pream, the father of Hector, who buries his son.
In the Gospel of Mark, it's a person who is called Joseph of Arimathea, but it is not his father Joseph who buries him.
So it's an implicit criticism of Joseph already in the New Testament.
But after that, we have an apocryphal tradition of Joseph the Carpenter and he becomes, he's not punished.
Jesus is not doing him in.
It's rather that he becomes a saint of sorts himself.
Interesting.
Thank you, gentlemen. I appreciate it.
Dutas Priest, thanks for the interesting, funny question, man.
Justin Hooper says, Richard, how surprised would you be if evidence of a historical Jesus was found, given you espoused such a compelling model where one was invented?
And by the way, what to say?
Mathematically, only 67% surprised.
Well, I want to say you also show an invented Jesus, right?
Yeah, I think one in three chance that that could actually happen.
Well, one in three chance that that's true.
I'm not very confident that we'll get any new evidence that would be useful.
But it's entirely possible to get evidence that would confirm Jesus existed.
I don't think it's impossible that Jesus existed.
I think it has respectable odds as how I frame it.
Dennis?
Well, really, it's a question for Richard, I think.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm saying like, let's suppose, since it is a question for Richard, I want to reframe it real quick just to kind of put it into a historicis angle.
We have this mythical Jesus.
How shocked would you be if we actually found the bones of Jesus, given we have these fictional Gospels claiming they can't find the body?
And here we go.
We somehow, and I'm hypothesizing, we somehow know that that was his body.
And we know he's the guy.
It's a lot of evidence.
Well, it's a counterfactual.
And you know, it's hard.
It's a fun, fun game.
No, it's fine.
And I would say it's great to find somebody's bones.
I don't know what finding somebody's bones tells you about their ethics.
I don't know what it tells you about their commitment to people or to women or whatever.
I would be willing to sacrifice all of Jesus' bones for about four words that I know came from Jesus without ambiguity.
Because it's the words of Jesus and his vision.
Now, I'm a historicist.
Yeah.
And I would say, from my perspective, we have plenty of evidence.
We don't need more evidence that Jesus existed.
We need to have what I would say a somewhat lower bar for historical reliability than my friend Richard has.
And we've talked about that and so on.
Because I do think, actually, we have plenty of evidence for it.
But that evidence, in my view, is much more important than finding Jesus' bones.
Interesting.
Appreciate it.
Let's see.
How do I drop this off the screen?
By the way, the idea that if we found Jesus' bones, we'd be great.
There's a disease in modern culture which I call Bible and fantasy.
And that if we can find an ozuary with the name of Jesus' brother, or if we could just find Jesus' bones,
or if we could just have the Shroud of Turin, we'd know the truth of Christianity.
Come on, that's Bible, land, fantasy world.
Yeah, I can tell you what I'd rather find than bones.
I mean, I don't even know how you would prove that they were his bones anyway without texts confirming it.
But anyway, so we have a book by Lucian of Samosata.
And he's kind of like a Mark Twain of the second century.
Brilliant.
Brilliant author.
He runs into another founder of religion, a kind of guy who's created his own cult that actually was super popular.
The umpers changed the names of towns for it, and coins were minted, and there's statues.
The religion lasted hundreds of years.
We have statues, statuary and stuff showing that.
But he created his own god, and it was a god based on it.
It was a snake that he had a puppet machinery that would make it look like a snake with a human head.
They could tell oracles and stuff.
Anyway, Alexander of Abba Noticus is the guy's name.
And Lucian gives us a whole story, and it's kind of tongue-in-cheek satirical, making fun of this guy.
And Lucian's trying to debunk his shit, and like James Randy, basically.
So it's actually a really neat story.
Now, would it have been cool if someone like Lucian of Samosata, some diogenes or something character,
had run into Jesus in Palestine, in whether it's Galilee or wherever,
and had written a story like this, even if it was irreverent and a little bit unreliable because it's mocking and so on.
We would, from that, actually know way more about Jesus than we know now.
Thank you.
Jay Cron has a super chat.
Where does that tall hat come from that the Catholic priest wear?
The Flamens, I think.
I'm not sure you could check, but I think it's the Roman Flaminate wore a hat like that.
The Pontifesco Maximus might also have worn that hat during ceremonies.
Yeah, I think so.
But it's a Flamens hat.
It comes from paganism.
They just co-opted a lot of the regalia of pagan religion.
Isn't it like a fish type?
Something like it looks like a...
Yeah, it's like a split long top hat.
It's, I don't know, it's a weird hat.
I'll not give them that.
So I went ahead and blocked the cap troll.
And anyone else who wants the troll can get blocked too, baby.
Anyway.
Aunt Kathy, thanks for the super chat.
Paul and Josephus Flavius.
Or Josephus Flavius, yeah.
They have a similar writing style, or is that my imagination?
Paul and Josephus?
Yeah.
Not really, no.
Not even slightly.
They write in the same dialect.
They're both Koine.
But no, they're styles.
Their discourse styles are very different, and their linguistic styles are different.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
I don't know if that gets into the theory where people are trying to say Paul was Josephus
or vice versa.
Yeah, it might be.
I would say Josephus' style has more in common with Galen.
And no one would argue that they're the same person.
Right, so one can't really argue that way.
Well, people do go to...
This is a good little fun fact.
There are people who do the whole parallelism stuff.
We know Luke Axe is lifting out of Josephus, and we do have these narratives where some
people go, for example, there's the shipwreck, and there's a shipwreck with Josephus.
You mentioned the Luke Axe.
There actually has been stylistic studies to try and compare Luke Axe with Josephus,
and they've found commonalities, but they aren't enough commonalities to establish common
authorship, but they do suggest common influences or common social station.
I appreciate that, Aunt Kelly.
Let me pop it down here.
All right, so now we're back to us again.
Kerry, what do you think of Dennis'...
Dennis McDonald, I guess, in general?
No, I'm grateful for his existence and all his work.
His tireless work over his life has produced a lot of very valuable and useful stuff,
especially the mimesis of Homer, because we were talking about this earlier, you know,
off camera, but it was just the fact that you wouldn't have seen this normally,
because Homeric studies is inherently its own difficult thing,
and New Testament studies is inherently its own difficult thing.
So you almost never see someone cross those two disciplines.
All the Homeric people are not interested in the Bible,
and all the Bible people are not interested in Homer,
and you would have to have been interested in both to take the effort,
and it is effort to learn them, at least enough to be able to do this kind of comparison.
So Dennis would ask, like, why didn't no one notice this before,
and I think no one had the dual discipline to actually do it.
Remind me of this. I have further on this with Dennis' work.
We've got one super chat. I really want to probe you on this just to get it on record,
because I think it'll be interesting.
Like, we're one thing, and I'm going to get to your...
I can even broaden that, because I think this is just an illustration of a concept
that can be iterated in many other respects.
Interdisciplinary studies can always be incredibly fruitful.
If someone studies the New Testament and something else, very interesting,
they will see things.
Anthropology, yeah. There's been a few of these kinds of overlaps.
The more overlaps you have, the more you're going to see things in the works
and the text and the evidence that other people won't see
because they don't have that other discipline, Mastery.
So I super encourage interdisciplinary studies for people.
I want to comment just a little bit on that.
We've been talking about how classics, Greek poetry,
gets ignored by New Testament scholars or people who study the Roman Empire.
You have the prejudice going the opposite direction, too.
You have American scholars who really do not want people who deal with Judaism
and early Christianity screwing around with their precious texts.
That's right, yeah.
And I have a few friends who are willing to cross that bridge.
But there is, unfortunately, and by the way, I have tremendous respect
for Homeric scholarship and I just absorb it whenever I can.
But there is a cultural arrogance in the discipline.
There are a lot of ancient historians who don't even want to study New Testament studies.
They don't want to weigh in on it. They avoid it.
So the prejudice goes in both ways.
And of course it sometimes is called stovetop disciplines,
where we're so insulated and protected from each other
that we can't learn from each other.
One of the most vicious and unfair reviews I've ever had
was from a classicist and a Homeric scholar who dealt with the reception of Homer.
And he did not want me as a biblical scholar screwing around with his texts.
And I tried to write a review of the review
and the journal would not publish it because it was a classical position.
And so you have this stovepipe, or I would call it actually an intellectual prejudice,
that goes in both directions.
Thank you.
All right, we're going to ask, let me restart these audios and ask these two super chats.
I want to probe deeper into...
All right, we are recording.
So Cade Welley, thank you for the super chat, says,
is it true ancient Greece didn't have the word blue?
And if that's true, are there any other surprising things
that they believed that now sounds ridiculous or goes against common sense?
It's true. There is no word for blue in ancient Greek.
Just blue as itself. There are words that include blue.
I have a whole article on this, on the color blue
and how it was identified linguistically in the ancient world.
This often gets how you call telephone gamed into the cognitive argument
that they've never experienced the color blue.
Which is not at all true.
Just because your words have wider valences
doesn't mean you're not recognizing the existence of the color.
But so I have a whole article on this where people are interested,
and I go into that and how to parse that and do that correctly.
Thank you for that super chat, Cade.
I hope that answered your question.
Andrew Atkins, super chat.
Hi Richard, how does Jesus reference to the Son of Man and the Gospels
tie into Jesus' mythicism?
So I'll just say on the supposition of the mythicist model
that it is drawing in ideology from Daniel
and from Enoch and from some other texts.
So try and associate these Messianic concepts with Jesus.
On historicity, however, if you suppose historicity,
there are several other possible answers.
Which we have him on record.
Yeah, which I think Dennis knows quite a lot about.
I'm actually going to the bathroom, so you can go ahead and call that.
I mean, you already...
No, no, we don't need to revisit it.
Yeah, so there's a whole video, my friend, Andrew,
where Dennis actually goes into the Son of Man argument
and it's all in high definition,
so either you can wait till that's public on YouTube
or if you want to join the vision patron,
that's a way to see all of the videos once I get them up.
But specifically, he goes deep into his particular historical approach.
It's not just your particular, but it's the historic...
You want me to give a thumbnail response?
Yeah, yeah.
The earliest reference we have to Jesus as the Son of Man
appears in either Mark, which is a surviving gospel,
or more likely in the Q document.
And if there is a Q document,
apparently every reference to Son of Man appears there before it appears anywhere else.
Paul does not know the use of the Son of Man as a way of referring to Jesus.
And in the Q document, it seems to be Jesus' preferred way of speaking about himself
after his temptations and baptism,
where he learns that he is the Son of God.
So instead, he rejects the prerogatives of being Haq i Astu Theu,
the Son of the God.
And when he calls disciples, he says,
I don't have a place to lay my head,
but nonetheless, come and follow Haq i Astu Unthropu.
And so the parallelism in the lost gospel is really quite striking.
Jesus, in his mission, in this case, seems to prefer
an identification with those who are sinners and tax collectors
and not with the prerogatives that the devil is offering in his foundations.
Thank you.
And from then, when the gospels receive Son of Man,
they often don't understand that literary ploy in the lost gospel,
and they do all kinds of gymnastics with that title.
Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
Thomas Stern here?
Did Paul know Q?
So that's your question.
And it's an interesting question to ask, but yeah.
The answer is no, but there are parallels between Paul and the Q document
that need to be explained.
The one that is actually most tantalizing is Paul knows of a tradition
in which the Lord sent out apostles that had to beg in their mission.
And we have that apparently in the Q document.
So I think that's an independent tradition.
It's probably an early missionizing statement that is known by both Paul and the Q document.
And that's fascinating because probably that part of 1 Corinthians is written before the Q document.
So then what is the relationship? It's really quite fascinating.
Do you think the Q document knew Paul?
No.
Okay. It's an interesting, you know what I just did there to kind of, that's interesting.
No, no, it's important.
And there are about six to eight, depending on how one does it,
sayings that overlap in the Pauline tradition and in Q.
And one of the most famous is the prohibition of divorce.
But another is anticipations of the end and the return of Jesus in the clouds.
So that still, in my view, is an open question.
The problem is we have Pauline epistles, we don't have Q, unless you buy my book and then you're going to Q.
And then of course Carrier would take the Matthewian approach right now.
You start with like a minimal approach.
Like all of these traditions, I do think a lot of these traditions do go back to two or previous to Paul.
I think they're getting them by revelation rather than a certain person.
But if Jesus existed, then yes, this would be the channel by which you would at least find something that Jesus was teaching.
You could at least sort of vaguely claim what he actually taught versus what other people were claiming he taught.
Thank you, Thomas, for the super chat.
That's a very good question, by the way.
Yeah, yeah, that was.
And it's a really interesting one to ask, especially after what you just put me through over the past couple days.
I mean, I've really been wrapping my head around this now.
Yeah, and especially we take it for granted, he and I, I think.
And certainly I do.
I forget that a lot of people, other people don't know immediately how to answer that question.
Like I could, you know, through metacognition, could know how Dennis would answer that question.
But that's because I know lots of stuff about everything, right?
Not just his stuff, but I mean just biblical history and Paul and all that stuff.
But the average person doesn't know all that stuff, so that's why it's an important question.
There's a chasm, too.
That's why I find these kinds of Q&A's valuable, because average people aren't going to know this stuff generally.
That's true.
That's true.
That's what we exist for.
Our job is to disseminate this knowledge to the public.
Smoke, thanks for the super chat.
Is there any historicity to the story of finding Deuteronomy in the temple during Josiah's reign?
So you guys aren't Hebrew Old Testament scholars, but...
Oh, I strongly suspect that that is a literary or a myth to justify this newly discovered document.
And we have lots of, in history, there are a lot of these newly discovered documents.
Like Rome has, in its own sacred history, has the linen books were like newly discovered,
and then this proved all sorts of convenience things, yeah.
And those are the gains.
Suddenly discovered books is a trope in world culture, so it's just to say it's suspicious.
So to ask the question about the sibling, just in the vein of this, because I like going over to the Greek,
to see what the Greek world says, when does...
Quite apart from it being a mythological story, it has enormous impact on the reconstruction of Judaism under Josiah.
So we can dismiss it as a mythology, but it's a meaningful mythology that reincorporated the Deuteronomistic orientation,
which plays itself out even into the State of Israel today.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's true.
Cade Welley, thank you for the super chat again.
She loves coming back.
Was Homer blind?
If not, why do we think this?
Was he blind?
I don't know if it...
It's B-L-O-N-D, so...
I think they mean blind.
Okay, okay.
Okay, actually, I'd like to speak to that, because I have authority on it, actually.
Because I only have one eye myself.
I'm attentive to blindness.
There was no one person who was named Homer, but there is a famous bard in the Odyssey whose name is Demaricus, who is blind.
And he's a famous poet among the Theokians, and it said that he has been given the gift of poetry, unlike any other.
And he's led out of the palace into the games that are being held outside, and he sings marvelous stories, mostly about the Trojan War,
but he also has a dirty story about Hephaestus trapping his wife Aphrodite in a net, and so on.
Even in antiquity, people thought that Demaricus was a way of Homer inserting himself into the narrative,
so the blindness and the great skill of Demaricus led over into interpretation of Homer himself.
All right, I'm going to take this into a weird direction here, because it shouldn't be weird.
Actually, the reason I'm doing this...
There are a lot of really good books and writings by two women in classics.
The professors are really excellent classicists.
Ayla Chitwood and Mary Lefkowitz.
And they've written a lot of books on the phenomenon of how these fake biographies get written about real poets,
in which people dig through their poetry and assume that characters and events in the poems are secret stories about the poet.
And in fact, they use this example. It's one of them.
But they find this where the biographies of Euripides had the same thing.
They would look at Euripides' plays and then try to turn them into autobiography, which is a good example of how mythologizing even historical people
threw a certain technique.
And similarly, there's a lot of talk about how parables by Jesus become parables about Jesus.
John Dominic Crossen's book, Power of Parable, makes that point.
And it's a similar kind of phenomenon.
Someone will say something and then that will become a story that somehow tells you something about their biography.
I want to take it even in another direction.
What about Stevie Wonder?
What about blind banjo players?
I'm a banjo player and there's a long tradition.
You can see it in...
I forget what the name of the movie was, but you have a famous young blind banjo player.
And as a banjo player, I can tell you that playing a banjo and playing...
And by the way, Homer and others are loop players.
It's important to say.
They are musicians and they are called singers.
They're not called poets in the early period. They're singers.
And there's something about closing your eyes and playing music and singing that is transcendent.
And that's why you evoke the muse from which we get the word music and museum and inspiration.
And I think there's something psychological about...
People thought that Homer must have been somehow divine or had a divine channel
because he was able to make such beautiful poetry.
And I think there's this tradition that I experience of closing my eyes and playing music.
And look at Stevie Wonder and amazing things he's able to do.
And we have a tradition of blind musicians and singers.
And so it's not implausible that people saw this phenomenon in antiquity
and attributed it wrongly to a historical Homer.
Thank you.
In 1993, was Jesus really into damning people to hell?
Are evangelicals right when they say Jesus only cares about worship?
So I guess taking the...
I mean, that would be wrong.
I mean, even the gospel Jesus, even the fictional Jesus in the gospels,
does not only care about worship.
There's a whole moral social program that he's promoting as well.
But when you get to the real Jesus, that's a much more difficult question.
Even a historicist is not going to say that.
You wouldn't even know what Jesus actually said, so...
Well, I don't know what Jesus would have actually said,
but I do know that the depiction of him in early texts
is not that kind of vindictive believe in me or you go to hell.
Right.
Thank you.
The mythic life, Kristen Whitaker.
I know it's Kristen Hood.
Thank you for the super chat, Kristen.
I appreciate it.
And look, I'm using Streamy Ardor.
I would like to start making you guys that I see all the time
that are fans of MythVision, like moderators,
and like, you know, be able to help me out if trolls try to pop in.
But anyway, to her question,
which argument from Earl Doherty,
Earl Doherty's Jesus puzzle, first got Dr. Carrier to rethink historicity?
That he didn't start with Astro Theology.
He started with looking at the Greek.
Like, his arguments actually were based on the Greek
and actually an informed understanding of the Greek.
You don't usually see that.
I can't think of any Amateur mythicist that that's actually true of.
Even Atwell claims to, but it's not.
Like, he makes tons of mistakes in the Greek.
Now, Doherty's knowledge of Greek was really sound,
his willingness and ability to actually check and read the scholarship.
So he was near to dissertation quality work, frankly.
That impressed me the most.
And so the fact that he kept,
he limited his statements to things that could actually be supported
in actual historical work, peer-reviewed work,
actual lexicons and things like that.
So that was the thing that got me paying attention.
And that's even after you subtract all the things that I criticized
that I didn't believe, I didn't find credible.
For instance, he was relying on, for instance,
this five-stage production of Q hypothesis
that I found extremely implausible
and at least not well supported in the scholarship
and not by Doherty either.
But even if you take that away, his argument still stood up.
So it was kind of an unnecessary thing to argue for, I found.
Kind of like how you right now, and you don't know,
how you feel if Dennis's Q theory, let's just say,
wasn't concluded in your mind,
it does not take away at all from what you've seen, the memetic stuff, right?
And I don't want to detour this.
Yeah, that's more complicated, because it all depends on dating of Q
and what's actually in it.
So that's a different question.
And this is not the Q that Doherty's working with.
Did you have an aha moment while you read his book?
No, I never do.
In that, it took a long time of me thinking about it
and going like, and what I do when I run into things like this
is how would I prove this false?
And with most amateur mythicists, the answer is easy and too easy.
In fact, embarrassing and easy, and it really annoys me.
You made me read this stuff.
And I was like, oh my God, this is so bad.
It's obvious that these are mistakes and these are fallacies and so on.
But in Doherty, I didn't have that reaction.
In Doherty, there were mistakes, but they were the kinds of mistakes
that a graduate student would make.
Not even undergraduate, but like a graduate student mistake.
And even some of them would be debatable whether they're a mistake.
You know, that kind of thing.
Because there were, like, to be fair to Doherty,
there were scholars arguing for this five-layer theory
and under peer review.
Like, this wasn't a crank theory.
Just because I disagree with it doesn't mean that it was false at the time
or that you shouldn't argue it.
But that's the thing.
The fact that he had a sustainable argument that was well-informed
and well-reasoned.
And then, because then my next reaction was,
well, does anybody have a response to this?
So I checked the literature.
No one responded to it.
No one had any arguments.
No one had responded to it, so obviously they didn't have arguments against it.
Did anyone write anything that would count as an argument against it
or that would work?
And it was an unresponded two argument, basically.
And I felt like at that point, I was like,
well, this is a viable theory.
I don't know if it's true.
This hasn't had a proper rebuttal from the academy yet.
So at that point, I was agnostic.
I was like, well, okay, there's this theory.
Sitting here right now and not having done research on it,
I can't refute it, and no one else has.
So I don't know where to stand on this.
And so that was where I was pretty much just an agnostic on the question,
until my fans got together a postdoc research grant for me to actually do the study.
And that's the only reason I ended up writing a peer review book on the histories of Jesus.
And then, of course, then I did my own research,
took six years, pursued every thread, and ended up where I was.
And I did ditch a lot of Doherty.
I kept Doherty's key thesis, though.
So the structure, and it's totally, I give them credit.
It's totally, it's the basic structure of my minimal mythicism.
It's just Doherty stripped down.
I just take all the unnecessary premises out,
and what's left over is still fundamentally Doherty's work.
And I found that that was the only theory of mythicism that was defensible academically.
All the others, there's no chance of defending them academically.
Thank you.
Mark Smith, thanks for the super chat again, my friend.
Was the magic wand of Hermes always associated with a snake?
No, it wasn't.
That comes up somewhat later in the tradition,
especially related to Asclepius and the God of Healing.
So early on, it was used for putting people to sleep or waking them up.
Thank you.
I appreciate the super chat.
Eximusic, thanks for the super chat.
Dr. Carrier, with the genre of forged epistles in the second century,
how do we know Paul's epistles are authentic?
I guess we know seven question marks, have the same author,
but could be a prolific fiction letter writer.
I'll punt to my article on this, so that I have an article on my blog,
The Historicity of Paul, where I kind of give the summary argument
of why we don't think that they're forgeries.
To add to that really, and I actually mentioned that in the article,
but the one reason is that there are two reasons really,
but one of which is that all of the attempts to argue their forgeries
involve extremely convoluted epicycle theories of interpolation and other things.
They have a whole reconstructed version of the letters
in order to get them to be forgeries,
or otherwise fanciful theories as to how they were forged or why.
To me, the main point is that the letters clearly were written by someone
for whom the temple is still standing and still an issue,
and there's no war that he has to deal with in the past or ongoing,
and the letters are stitched together.
This is another thing, the letters are clearly a bunch of letters
that have been sewn together.
If you're forging, say for example, second Corinthians,
you don't forge it that way, you would just forge one coherent letter.
The fact that you had to take a bunch of pieces and put them together
and cut pieces out and stuff tells you that whoever's editing this
into the New Testament is working with the real dossier,
and they're fixing it.
Forgers don't have to fix their own work,
they would just forge what they wanted, and we see this in the pastoral.
Pastoral are perfect examples of forged letters.
They're coherent, they totally make sense in their context, and so on.
One thing we can say is that the seven letters that are authentic
are the same person, and they were probably written before the Jewish war.
And so whether the name of the author was Paul is kind of almost irrelevant,
what their name was, but that's the name that's on them,
there's no reason to doubt it.
Yeah, unless you give me a reason.
And by the way, X to Music, I did a show with Dennis and Carrier on this
where we went, I think, 20-something minutes probably long
and we were discussing this specific thing,
and so you already kind of discussed this,
and I'm looking forward to releasing that onto the Patreon.
But if you're wanting to know, like, right now, go to richardcarrier.info.
You can get all my stuff there, my Patreon, my Facebook, my Twitter,
my classes, if you want to take my online classes,
all of that and my books and my articles and everything.
Yeah, and you could search this specific thing on The Authentic.
Thank you for that super chat.
MrMonster asks, and I'd love to get both of your thoughts,
why do we think Jesus was white?
Thanks for the super chat.
Well, he wasn't white.
I know.
I want to quote W.E.B. Dubois here again, or I'm sorry, Dubois,
to pronounce it the way he would.
Before the age of exploration, there were no white people.
The entire concept of white people was not invented until African slavery
was originated by the colonial powers, the colonial empires of Europe.
So this is anachronistic.
Yeah, you had ethnicities, so you'd have Germans and Portuguese,
and they'd go further back, you have Greeks and Romans and stuff,
but the idea of identifying people by color did not exist until
Africanized slavery happened when the white people,
who started calling themselves white,
to distinguish themselves and unify against the people
that they were subjugating into anti-milliam slavery.
So it's simply put, though, I think the question is kind of a deeper question,
he's trying to say, and it's not like he's really trying to know
why Jesus is really white.
He's saying, like, why do white people think Jesus is white?
This goes into...
If you go to every culture, Jesus is their color.
I've seen Afro, the Dreadlock, Jesus...
Which just tells you the paintings of Jesus, that is a mythical Jesus.
Everybody agrees.
Everyone agrees with a mythical Jesus to some degree.
He's really even correctly portrayed the way a Jew would be at that time, too,
the way they would style themselves.
Right.
Thanks for the question, man, I appreciate it.
Here's...
All right, we have no more super chats.
This was my question, I wanted to get it raw.
I want the feelings flowing, I want the lovey-dovey.
We've gone hard all week, so it's good to get into emotions and chill.
All right, it takes a lot to surprise you.
I notice this, because you've read so much damn shit,
I couldn't begin to...
That's true, yeah.
I'll take this couch, baby.
Decades, yeah.
Yeah.
I'm gonna have to endure this.
Oh, really?
Oh, thanks a lot, man.
No, not you, I have to hear of you.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, he's got decades on me on this accumulated knowledge business.
I gotta get them seeing and pouring this.
This is fun.
This is for you, pal.
All right, I'll kill it.
Go ahead and kill it.
I'm watching you pour.
You've read so much, it's difficult to shock you or to get you wowed in an intense way.
For me, it's not that hard.
If you show me something and I'm like, I didn't know that.
Holy crap, I'm pretty excited about it.
No, that's happened to me, too.
It's just happened to me decades ago.
That's true.
A lot of the stuff.
That's true.
It still happens.
It still happens from time to time.
I'm trying to probe into what we did today, for example, on Dennis's work.
For me, I read his work, right, a couple of his books, and was like, whoa, I was convinced.
Then I interview 100 other scholars who aren't convinced, and I ask about his work.
I ask about, you know, scholars like him about other people's work, things like that.
I do that all the time.
So when I first read it, I was like, whoa.
Then later on, I'm like, you get away from it for a while.
You think of so much other stuff.
You don't even know how serious it is.
Then this trip happened, and we did this literal close-up.
I'm asking you, because I know I'm convinced, how did you feel about the data when we did these few walk-through shows where the more concrete evidence?
I wasn't surprised by it, because frankly, I had that Eureka moment when I read the first book that he published on this, which is Homer and the Gospel of Mark.
And that, I was like, this is genius.
I'm amazed that he saw all this stuff, and the organization and the methodology, all of that was just like a Eureka moment for me.
That was fantastic.
So I've been aware of this, and I've kept up with a lot of his work since then.
So I'm not surprised by all this.
What gives me the warm fuzzies and makes me feel really good is the way that this new synopsis, that he's organized it, the way that he's put everything in it.
So it's such an extremely useful tool, whether you agree with him or not.
So that which is exactly the kind of thing I want more scholars to produce, that kind of stuff, so that you can actually analyze the argument.
And it's a wealth of information, regardless of what you do with the thesis.
And then at the same time, it's a great tool for arguing for the thesis.
And if you want to argue against it, it is a necessary tool for you to engage with.
So, point blank, direct question is, are you convinced of his thesis?
I'm not talking Q, I'm talking Memesis.
Yeah, Memesis theory, absolutely.
And in fact, we've done some videos, people will see.
Even my doubts are the same doubts that Dennis himself would admit to this.
The idea that there are strong cases and weak cases, but the strong cases lend support to the weak cases.
And there's always going to be, at the bottom, there's cases where you're not entirely sure, but the other stuff kind of lends credibility.
But that doesn't matter.
If the question is, are they doing this, that's indisputable.
I can't think, anyone who doubts this is happening is clearly not engaging with the work and not actually reading it.
That's what I'm talking about.
But I want to spin out of it.
It's very, very kind.
But in my own work, I had one Eureka after another after another.
So I too was surprised.
But I want to spin out of this into your viewership.
There is nothing more exciting in my life than intellectual curiosity and discovery.
And I can see this in Richard's work over and over and over again.
He is truly a Renaissance person and a polymath.
And I would think that he and I share an experience of intellectual curiosity and the thrill of discovery,
and then having to back off of the discovery a little bit to rationalize it,
continue on, test it, go on the journey.
And it's, sorry, it's intoxicating.
Yeah, last year it is fun.
And I think one of the things that your viewers are showing us is that they have their own intellectual curiosity.
And maybe we can be a part of Eurekas for them.
But the life that's unexamined is not worth living.
I wish that I was the one that designed that saying.
This notion of curiosity and discovery is life giving.
But it doesn't happen unless you can be a skeptic.
You have to be willing to take risks and to say I need my mind to go in places that are new
and I'm going to try to discipline them so I don't become a kook.
And by the way, that's the way to avoid becoming a kook is to be skeptical of yourself.
And so I appreciate what Richard said.
I certainly learned from him as much as he learned from me.
But this is an invitation, from my perspective it's an invitation to younger people to not give up on curiosity, skepticism,
and discipline because it really is a rewarding life.
So I've got people trying to troll and I need to make a few people give them wrenches.
This is weird trolling too, I don't even get it.
Yeah, I don't either. What do you see on your side?
Well I see the person who is trying to break the rules by naming themselves.
It's okay to hit women so that their message gets deleted but they still get their message through.
That's such shady shit that I would don't expel them.
Yeah, I'm trying and I'm going to have to make some people some of my friends here.
This has to be some 13 year old kid, there's no way any sane adult would be able to do this.
They're idiots, that's what it is, blame.
Yeah, I am taking super chats.
The one way I could do it is if they bear with me for a second and I bounce out real quick and make a couple of these guys here wrenches.
Bear with me chat, just wait.
Hopefully we didn't even get all that anyway because there's a bunch of nonsense.
Yeah, it was just a waste of time.
Okay, and Dr. Carrier, I've seen your video and I've read Carrier's blog but I still don't understand what Israel only people believe.
Oh my gosh, are they Christians?
Can you briefly explain what they're preaching?
I share your confusion, yeah.
No, I have a hard time figuring out what they believe too because they're slippery, they're like little weasels, they slip around from place to place.
And they'll claim one thing and do another and there's different ones too so different IO folks might believe different things, I don't know.
It's very frustrating for me, I would prefer someone to just be straightforward and stick to a lane.
They're writing a book, by the way, and supposedly it's like with everything, the appendix and everything, it's like 600 some pages, supposedly.
Me and Steven have our own opinions on what we think is going to come out of this and you kind of get where I'm going with this.
Normally I would say, well sure, let them go get a peer reviewed but I don't wish that on any peer reviewer.
Okay, I'd be tortured.
Thank you, Cade. So pretty much what they believe, if I could just wrap it in like a quick to the point.
Their entire theory is that God, when he promised Abraham, and this is the pre-sup, right, they go to Abraham, Genesis 12, Genesis 15, 16 or 17, one of the two.
It's a repeat because you have the documentary hypothesis but none of them know what that is.
He promises that your seed, Abraham's seed will become a multitude of nations.
So ultimately when you jump ahead, like this idea that in your seed, all the nations will be blessed.
I'm trying to follow you here.
You get to Genesis 49 or 48 and it talks about Joseph's two children and here you have, who I can't even think right now.
Anyways, Chris crosses his hands, blesses him and he says your seed will be a multitude of nations.
It's another promise of your children, right?
They go to the Gentiles since this term for nations is used in Hebrew and they see Paul preaching to the Gentiles.
These Gentiles in the last days are the regathering of Abraham's seed promised back in Genesis.
So in a nutshell, everything is in that vein.
That actually is a completely different, see that would be different, right?
Because Abraham is pre-tribes.
Yes.
So you could say that theoretically they believed everyone was the seed of Abraham.
Like that's not impossible but that they believe that but we have no evidence that they believe that.
Right.
And it's not the same thing as being the tribes of Israel.
So that's nonsensical.
I don't really know what to do with that.
If you want to know more, I really appreciate all your support and all these super chats that you do give.
Like I would be more than happy to spend some more personal time with you and explain to you.
I can give you actual arguments they make.
I'm not sure if you want to waste your time going through all of it.
For the IO people, yeah.
Yes.
Well I have an article on it if they don't know.
I don't know if this person is correct.
Yeah, she said that they've read it.
So the thing is it's even more confusing once you've read it and if you go to listen to what they say.
It's like, it's complex because not all of them come.
Because you say one thing and then they shift their position to another thing and then once you attack that thing
then they shift back to the previous position as if nothing has changed.
And you don't understand their position.
So that's the problem.
You can never pin it down.
But I'm hoping the book comes out and it's pretty solid on what they believe.
At least we know that.
Yeah.
Let's hope they learn something.
Indos.
Just take a shot, Derek.
Trust me when I tell you no one wants me to take a shot.
I don't know.
So little personal here.
Besides, we don't have anything to shoot.
I don't drink anymore.
It's almost been seven years since I've had any alcohol.
I did have one beer while I was on heroin.
But it was like piss water to me and it didn't taste good.
And so that tells you a little bit, probably a lot of TMI right there.
But yeah, look, I wish I knew how to be a normal person and not.
But if you see how extreme I am as I am this way, imagine how I don't.
I do not censor that at all.
Yeah.
But yeah, I appreciate the love.
I did take a shot of sparkling water and it's empty now.
Quite a shot.
A naked shot.
A whole glass shot.
Thank you, man, for that super chat.
Gnostic Informant.
Thank you for the super chat.
I said, just purchased Luke and Virgil.
I'm one third through historicity of Jesus by carriers.
So Luke and Virgil is on deck.
Well, listen, I got a surprise for you, my friend,
because Gnostic Informant has a channel he's been developing.
He interviewed me.
I'm going to hook you up with grandfather Dennis McDonald here
because he'd be happy to present his views and come onto your channel.
He's a very good interviewer.
I mean, I'm telling you, very, very good.
And someone else who's seen me interview other people said that
his interview with a person was better than my interview with him.
So that tells me he's good.
Cool.
Thank you for the super chat, bro.
I'm going to have to hook you up with these guys.
Nowhere man, what is the mimesis origin of Jesus in Gethsemane,
especially the remove this cup from me dialogue?
Oh, interesting.
Do you have a-
Is there something from-
Do you have a-
Yes, there is.
There's always something.
Yes.
But the idea that cup is identified with death is more Socratic than it is Homeric.
And of course, in the Fido of Plato, Socrates is surrounded by a few of his disciples, if
you will.
And he takes the cup of Hemlock, which is a cup of death.
And there are a number of affinities with that scene of the last supper and with the
Gethsemane episode that deserve a Socratic reading.
It becomes even more obvious in Luke.
But in Mark, I'm going to tell you a story from Homer.
And you tell me if you see any similarities between these.
Okay.
So, Socrates has been spending a year on the island of Searcy, having a very good time
in her bedroom.
And his crew have been having fun with the ladies on the island as well.
But they get tired of it.
So they want to go home.
Well, Searcy gives them a big feast.
And everybody gets drunk and gets a good night's sleep, including a young man named El
Painor.
And El Painor has a drunk.
He's a young man.
He's been an oarsman and a soldier.
And he wants to get a good night's sleep on the roof of Searcy's palace because he needs
the fresh air and the coolness of the evening.
Well, Odysseus goes into Searcy's bedroom and he thinks in the morning she's going to
send him off home to Ithaca.
And she says, I got bad news for you.
You have to go to Hades first and consult with the soul of blind Thereseus because he's
the one who can give you information about how safe he is to get home.
And then Odysseus, the Homer says that Odysseus was sorrowful unto death.
And of course, it's the irony that he's about to go to Hades, but he's sorrowful unto death
he wants to die.
Well, the visit to Hades is a kind of trope, a substitute for death.
So he decides that nonetheless he's going to go.
So he calls his men together and says, let's be going.
And they think they're going home, but they actually have to go to Hades.
El Paynor hears the call to muster, but he forgets he's on the roof of Searcy and he
falls to his death and he breaks his neck.
And so when Odysseus, Odysseus doesn't realize he's missing the sailor.
So he gets to the shores of Hades and the first soul to meet him is that of El Paynor.
And he says, El Paynor, how the heck did you get here?
You poor man.
And he says, well, my neck broke and my soul got here.
And if you don't go back to Searcy's Island and bury me, I'll never be able to get
entrance into Hades.
So Odysseus wants to get home, but he's agreed to go back to Searcy's Island and bury this guy.
So then Odysseus goes to Hades and comes back successfully and comes home.
In the Gospel of Mark, Jesus has a last supper with his disciples.
And he tells them what's going to happen.
And then he goes to the garden and has an arrest.
Well, there's a young man who is there and flees with the disciples.
And he was wearing nothing but a linen garment about him.
And he flees.
So Jesus has to face his fate alone.
This young man in ancient literature is depicted nude.
And he's the El Paynor-like character.
There are other similarities between this last supper of Odysseus with Searcy and the
last supper in Gethsemane.
And so that's the answer I would give you.
The fuller answer, though, is actually more interesting.
And you can find that in several of my books.
Yeah, he goes deep.
And we already got a recording, too, with this particular topic with him and Richards.
Thanks for that question.
I got to catch up.
We've got quite a few super chats here.
To poor Kay, thank you for the super chat.
What do you think of Jesus being a cynic philosopher from a Jewish Hellenistic city
Galilee, which was amongst the Decapolis, ten Greek cities, and Jesus being the wise
sage from theI'm looking for your follow-up hereoh snap, it refreshed.
But it's a reference to the question about the cynic hypothesis.
Yeah, is thatthat's pretty much it?
Yeah.
I have some bibliography in it in my book.
And it's one of many things that have been argued as possible.
There's influence of cynic philosophy, but whether it's influence on Jesus or influence
on the authors, or influence on Judaism a century before any of this happened, right?
So it's hard to trace causal sequence or if they're parallel developments.
That's another thing.
Just something to keep in mind.
And I know you want to comment here.
No, no, he's right.
Okay, okay.
So you're on the same page.
Okay.
Can you check and see on your side, ten poor Kay was a super chat?
What the next super chat was, because my thing refreshed, and we had so many come through
and so many comments.
Let's see if I can find it.
So did you find ten poor Kay?
Let's see, Mark Smith about snakes again.
Hold on.
Sorry, bear with us, please.
Jesus being a cynic philosopher, we did that.
What's the next one?
After that one?
Yep.
The next color.
Because I have Mr. Monster, that's
Mark Smith asks
Okay.
Ask it out loud if you don't mind, please.
Yes.
Does the combination of the magic snake and the magic wandhe's very interested in
the magic wand and the magic snake predate the stories of Moses.
The Assyrians had a god, Ningishzida, probably mispronouncing that, with magic snakes, trees,
vines, and libation, but not wands.
So that's something you should ask an expert on Mesopotamianearly Mesopotamian history.
So again, Wikipedia has an article on theI can't remember if it was
It's quite a case.
Yeah.
That did touch on some of this and might have a bibliography to pursue, but this is really
a question to ask someone who'sand you're a seriologist, for example, which you interviewed
once.
Yeah, Dr. Joshua Bowen.
So I could ask that question.
He doesn't know.
He'll know where you can find out.
Yeah, yeah.
So do me a favor, especially if you're asking that question, email me, derrickatmitthvisionpodcast.com.
What's the next one that you have on the list?
From Mr. Monster.
All right.
I believe Revelations, right?
I believe Revelations.
It's Revelation, but that's the book.
What is a wartime novel meant for an audience of its time and has no bearing on our time
or our future, would you agree?
100.
Yeah.
Percent.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It wasn't written for now, obviously.
It's definitely about Donald Trumpno, I'm just kidding.
Yeah, it's definitely about the Roman Empire and the era of Demission.
And it may have been written as part of PTSD.
Yeah.
Which I think is that we come with the cover.
Yeah, we do.
And Mr. Monster, I think, isI think you're on the Patreon, but we go extensive into Revelation
in one of those videos, and you go into this and cover it.
We have a lot of fun.
But yes, we all agree that it was absolutely not for anything past, or it's not talking
about anything around our time.
Now we're later than the second century.
It's not referring to you.
Yeah.
Nothing.
And I mean, there's disputes over, like, is this a 70 AD or 90 something, depending
on if you're talking to a Preterist fundamentalist or something or not.
I want to say, though, that that doesn't mean that the book shouldn't be written
and interpreted.
Right.
You read and interpreted.
Right.
It's just not about credit cards and cell phones.
It tells us things about the author, about the era, the community he's writing about.
Well, it takes an age of memory.
Right.
It tells us things about the economy.
Like, it tells us there's a lot of data in there about the ancient world, if you would
just take it seriously for what it is rather than try to turn it into something else.
People keep doing that, doing it throughout history.
We've got an interesting question here.
I don't know how you would maybe answer this.
Aaron Adair says, what do you consider a strong example of...
Hi, Aaron.
Hello.
What do you...
Do you know them?
Aaron Adair is an astronomer who wrote the best book on the Bethlehem Star ever done.
So I would highly recommend folks to check it out.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, I can't remember the title, but just look for his name.
Aaron Adair.
I've seen the name.
Yeah.
Okay.
Do you think this is really him?
I hope.
That'd be awesome.
That'd be weird if someone's pretending to be Aaron Adair.
Yeah.
What do you...
No, that's interesting.
This is a pretty complex question, even.
What do you consider a strong example of mimesis of Homer and or Virgil in G. Matthew not copied
over from Mark?
In other words, did Matthew do some Homeric mimesis that he didn't borrow from Mark?
There's only one compelling example, but the very fact that Matthew includes so much of
Mark that has Homeric influence should be taken into account.
When in book 24, Priam needs to rescue the body, I'll be brief, rescue the body of Hector.
And Zeus sees what a dangerous mission this is because here an old man is going with a
treasure of ransom in the middle of the night into the enemy territory that had just killed
not only his son, but many of his sons in the war.
And it's an incredibly dangerous journey.
So Hermes comes and is going to escort him into the camp of Achilles, and to do so he
quits the guards to sleep.
He throws back the bolts of the bivouac and allows Priam to offer the ransom and to take
his son.
When they come out, they also go through these open doors and sleeping guards and then Hermes
leaves.
And Hermes is called an Andelos of Zeus, he's an angel of Zeus.
What we find in the Gospel of Mark is an unusual narrative about guards at the tomb who then
fall, are stricken like dead men when Jesus comes out of the tomb, that is the tomb is
open, the guards are put to sleep, and the words for guards and for the door are exactly
the same as you have in Homer.
Another reason for saying that that is a Homeric imitation is we have pagan, Jewish, and Christian
imitations going from as early as the 2nd century BCE to at least the 4th century, common
era, in multiple, so this idea of putting guards to sleep or killing them and so on,
and pulling back the releasing someone from a prison or a house or a tomb and so on, and
the report of the guards is a trope that has Homeric imitation.
Now here's a methodological challenge, because we have so many examples of the stories of
this story, we can't be sure that Matthew is using Homer, because Matthew could be using
the story of Artipanus, which where Artipanus escapes a prison, Moses escapes a prison in
Egypt in very similar way, so this is an example where when Mimesis becomes so pervasive in
a culture, you really can't be sure which model is being used, but I'd still say that
the most likely one is the most famous one, namely the Hermes putting guards to sleep
and pulling back the door.
And that's interesting because it explains added details, so we've been talking in the
videos about eclectic Mimesis, how it was actually taught that it's actually more creative
and more impressive if you can merge multiple emulations into one, and so I find, of course
in Proving History I give an example of Daniel and the Lion's Den has a lot of influence
on the guard story in Matthew, but the details that Dennis just references are the ones that
don't come from Daniel specifically, and so there's some overlap, but not a lot, so if
you look at the Daniel and Lion's Den influence and then look at this Homeric or otherwise
influence, put those together, you almost get the whole story, if you combine Mark in
there as well.
And I've been noticing that too, I need your help again, it's refreshing, and I am, so
we are at Aaron Adair, right? I see Matthew Pop, that's how far down it refreshed to me.
So how far up can you go to, can you get to Aaron Adair and then go to the one below?
I would have 10% battery left, FYI, but no, next is Judas Priest. Does either Richard
or Dennis know much about King David? Do they believe he existed as stated in the Bible?
How about the size of his army? Possibly 288,000? By the way, sound went south, there was something
there, I went in the chat there, something like that.
Yeah, I was looking at that too, I don't know if it was like an internet thing or whatever,
but we'll let everyone know, watching, we are recording.
Independent recording, so it's good.
So it will be on Patreon, and all of this will be in like really high quality, but okay.
I mean very briefly, I'm undecided about David, there's arguments pro and con, there is some
early archaeological evidence of a possible house of David, it's kind of like a warlord
thing. 288,000 seems extremely unlikely. The logistics of maintaining an army that size
are outrageous basically.
There may have been a King David, but he certainly was not a king of an empire.
Thank you, what was the next one? I'm waiting. I'm going to see. Hold on. I am at Matthew
Pop, I think I'm saying that right. I see Thomas Thern here, is that later? That might
be later, might have refreshed on you too, that's the crazy thing. I might still draw
it up, it just takes time. I'm at Matthew Pop, so is it one above him? Maybe. That we
didn't get? You're Matthew Pop, could Jesus have been a member of the Sanctuary? Yeah,
I got that, but I didn't know if there was one above that, that I missed. I mean anything
is possible, it's doubtful. Jesus was a member of the Sanhedrin. You don't see it even likely?
It doesn't seem likely. How does, oh, I guess I should say, crossover maniac, how does the
historicity of Jesus compare with the historicity of legendary figures like King Arthur and Robinhood?
I don't know about Robinhood, but I actually cover King Arthur in my book. On the historicity
of Jesus, I cite the big biography on that. The consensus in the field of King Arthur studies,
the majority consensus is that there's no historical Arthur. The legends of Arthur are
actually an amalgam of several people over many centuries of time. I have more opposite
comparisons, which are ancient people. That's right. In Jesus from outer space, I have a
whole chapter where I cover Spartacus, Hannibal, Pontius Pilate, Herodontipus, and so on, showing
what kinds of evidence we have. In Socrates, I have him covered. I go through the kinds
of evidence we have for them and that we don't have for Jesus if you want to compare us in.
Okay, okay. I've got another super chat. I'm making sure it's the next one because I'm on my
phone. If I was on my computer at home, we wouldn't be having this problem. Thomas Thurnier,
I'm hoping I'm saying that right. Could it be that the myths and endless genealogies of First
Timothy 1 are a reference to an early gospel? Do you know that's a reference to it? No.
Well, in First Timothy, they're condemning, don't pay attention to myths and endless genealogies.
Apparently, people are making these up. I mean, it might be. I'm not really sure. It's hard to
really guess. The only thing I can say about that, first of all, First Timothy is a forgery,
so it's kind of ironic of a forger trying to complain about forgeries.
I do actually have an answer for that one. The word muthas can mean simply tale or a story.
It doesn't mean anything that's false, but in this case, the author doesn't like the story.
In the context in First Timothy, it could be that he doesn't like the story of Thecla,
who is authorized to teach the Word of God in the Acts of Paul.
That's a good point. There's a reason why he's saying this, but First Timothy has also got the
misogynist passage in it. That's right. The first published book that I had was, in fact, on this
that included this topic, The Legend and the Apostle. This text was important to me because I
think the author knows of myths or stories about Paul that he feels are inappropriate.
The name of the book is The Legend. That is, the legend of Paul that you find in the Acts of Paul
and the Apostle, which would say that First Timothy is a forgery in part to correct the image of Paul
as being a friend of women. There's one thing that we've not covered at all, and I just want to
enter it in as a topic for us to consider. There is a branch of study of mythologizing in our world
that's called fan fiction. It is a science now in popular culture studies, and many of the
things that we find in fan fiction. By the way, fan fiction can be either historical or non-historical
characters, but you have gatekeepers, you have apocrypha, you have arrival interpretations,
and so on. You have canonicity. That's right. This business about mythologizing historical or
non-historical characters really can be analyzed today in terms of how fan fiction works.
Thank you very much. I'm going to get this next super chat popped up so I don't get like a
refresh and then I don't have it or something, but I do want to restart the video. All right,
that one's fixed. I see either Cade or Cade Wellie. I think it's Cade, yep. Cade Wellie asks,
did the ancient world only have red wines? Is it possible they could have been sipping on,
what is this? A Pinot Grigio. Pinot Grigio. I don't know when white wine was invented. White wine
is wine with the grapes peeled, so the grape, the skins of the grapes are not in there, and it
creates a different effect. I think that was a much later development. I don't know when it was
developed, but it wasn't an ancient world thing. The color of wine is also determined by how long
the skin of the grape is kept in the process, so that's another variable. Yeah, ancient wine was
sweeter than the wine that we were recognized today and would be considered by Oenophiles gross
by comparison. So the interesting refined dry wines that we have from like France,
the France, and Italy and stuff later is all developed using technologies that were developed
after the Roman period. And what would it mean that we have the wine dark sea if we have white wine?
Jesse, thanks for the super chat. What is your opinion, and we had this question yesterday,
so I'm asking it anyway for repetition. What is your opinion of Herman Dettering's view,
which dates the Pauling Corpus to the second century? Okay, I got an article on it,
Historicity of Paul. Check it out on my blog. You take a deep dive? Yeah, I mean, not a deep dive,
but I give reasons why it's not believable. Okay, and you both agree. Thank you.
I am stoke. I am stokey war tooth. I hope I'm saying that right. Lost was Richard or Dennis
know how much or know much about King David. Do they believe he exists? Oh, we did that one.
The Bible. Okay, well, that was the same question that do this priest asked. Oh, is it really?
No, not weird. Okay. Okay. So, hey, we answered that. Thank you. I appreciate the love.
The love of dub dub. Skip Bosco, Dennis, Clawhammer, question mark, Scruggs, question mark,
other question mark. And Richard, do you play an instrument? I don't. I'm not musical. I'm tone
deaf, so not my area. I play a five string banjo and I'm involved with several different
musical groups. My favorite genres are bluegrass and Irish pub music. What is Clawhammer and
Scruggs? Oh, those are two major different ways of playing a banjo. Clawhammer is kind of your
old Southern prior to bluegrass. Bluegrass is a three finger picking method, whereas Clawhammer
is without picks and it's based on a downward motion on the right hand, whereas Scruggs perfected
and really perfected the three finger method. I'm a three, I'm a three finger picker. Okay.
Awesome. Skip, good question. Interesting question. Yeah, it's awesome. I love that one.
Yeah, I like, I like sometimes, you know, I like it indeed. People who know stuff and ask
interesting side questions. We'll color knob you on, you know. To give you a long week's break.
Timpore K, thank you for the super chat. What does Mr. McDonald and Mr. Carrier think on the
Green Book by Mr. Gamirkin? If they're not familiar with his work, can you, Derek, explain his findings
and touch on the Green Book and Plato and Thames? Oh, wow. That's a lot to touch on. So all right,
I thought he was a minimalist. He's not quite a minimalist. He believes that, so pretty much he
believes this. The Septuagint was obviously finalized in Greek. And what is it, 273 BC?
This is the argument that it's heavily influenced by Plato, etc. There is the Platonic connections,
of course. And he's not saying everything is, but the final redaction in, if you will, the Septuagint's
creation, he thinks the Hebrew development, the canonical Hebrew was actually developed sometime
within a decade prior to, so a decade or two prior to the LXX. But that doesn't mean there isn't
source material in locations, potentially. So I haven't read the book, so I can't really give a
proper evaluation. So don't take this as gospel or anything. But I did read some articles that were
pro and con, like, you know, debate, basically. And I wasn't impressed with the evidence that
Gamirkin was presenting. It's a lot of leaps of logic, I find. And so maybe that's wrong,
maybe that maybe it'll hold up in final analysis. And since it's not a subject that's terribly
within my field or interest, I haven't done the deep dive. So I can't properly say that it's bogus.
It might hold up. But I haven't seen anything that's impressed me from that yet.
Yeah, he gets into some of these details. I don't know the history well. It sounds really cool,
the things he mentions. Like, he's going into sources I don't know. And like, the lack of evidence
of extra biblical, like, no one understands the narrative of Moses. It's really weird because,
Greek literature, they're talking about Moses is compared to this priest from Egypt to escape,
which gives him the weird Hixos. Yeah, this is why this seems like a big stretch on scant data.
I don't know. Well, he's saying the lack of it. He's like, he comes up with like,
more of an empirical approach. And he's like, we don't hear it or see it anywhere. And we've got
elephant team, but I don't even mention. Yeah, that's that's not even a valid argument from
silence. That's the kind of thing that bothers me. Like, when I look at that, it makes me
be skeptical because when you're making arguments about the silence of the historical record,
when we know most almost all documents are lost, it's not that that's not a sound way to argue.
And if someone doesn't know that's not a sound way to argue, that always makes me doubt
that they've got a good argument for the rest of it. So so like I said, I but I don't want to
claim that I have actually fully vetted his work. So I can't say that it's false.
Well, but I know about the Septuagint. Yeah, yeah. And one of the issues is that
we don't have a complete Septuagint that we know of that is prior to the New Testament.
And what we have is Old Greek and we have the collections of books.
In many cases, only by themselves. But we then have a canonical process going on in
the Hebrew Bible because of the the Septuagint. So I think the skepticism that I would have
is similar to the one that Richard mentioned. But the one problem is, when do we date the
Septuagint? Because we actually don't know when the Septuagint came to final final form.
Even apart from legends, right? You got legends, right? Well, yeah. And that's right. I mean,
we have the Aristotle era, the letter of Aristias that talks about it. So I would just like to see
how he wants to date this material, how widespread this actual corpus of the substitute. Now, the
Septuagint's relative canonization Judaism is a very important topic and it's very complex.
And you have to really get into the weeds of Hebrew and Dead Sea Scrolls and the various
recensions of the early Greek tradition, which is called Kaige sometimes and so on. So I know
about the complexities. So that said, I really am not in a position to comment on this topic.
But I am saying it is a vexed topic. Thank you guys. That's accurate. Thank you for that, Timpura.
Cade, you seriously rock. I mean, you just keep coming through and helping out and super chatting.
I really appreciate you seriously. Will you email me? If you have any questions, I'd like to like
get some questions recorded with your name, asking them in high definition,
you know, in future interviews for all your support. I feel like I have to try and at least
show you some love some way. This question is to Dennis. If Odysseus is supposed to be so smart
and clever, why does he make so many stupid decisions? Did being a hero in the ancient
world mean something different than being a hero today? Yes, it meant something very different.
All ancient heroes are flawed characters, which makes them so damn interesting.
Think about Achilles. Achilles is a madman from the very first lines of the Iliad,
and yet he is the Lord of the Dead in Hades in the Odyssey, and he is petulant and he's murderous,
and he has to be brought into human sensitivity in the Iliad so that by the end,
he's kind enough to release Hector's body to his father. And this is a huge transition in his
character, and Homer knows that. Odysseus is not virtuous. He's a skunk. He's understood to be,
he creates the Trojan horse, and that brings down Troy. He lies frequently. He's either get home,
but he sleeps with women along the way. He is duplicitous. So what makes... And there's also
a theme of too smart for your own good. There's a lot of that. Because he was asking about the
stupid decisions Odysseus makes. If you really read them, they're not necessarily stupid. They're
just clever by too far. He thinks he's being clever, but he has an overestimation of how
anticipating he's being. Heracles is a drunk thug, and he sleeps with goddesses or almost anything
that moves. So what makes the characters we remember best from antiquity are flawed characters,
which makes them rounded and interesting and like us. But the difference is Hector. Hector is
almost the perfect example of the Greek hero. He loves his family. He defends his country.
He's willing to die, even though his brother, Paris, is a total jerk and has taken Helen from
her husband and is causing the Trojan War and is a big wimp. So he is noble. He's really the
archetypal good guy hero. And by the way, he's a model for the death of Jesus, which I don't think
is accidental that you have. We have that example. But Odysseus is more of a skunk than he is a hero,
but he loves his family and he shows great endurance. And he, like Jesus, suffers many things
and is smarter and more courageous than his companions. So it's a great question. And there's
a huge literature on this of the Homeric heroes and other heroes in the Greek world.
So, Kate has another question, and I just want to say this. When I did the series on Joseph
Smith's early Mormonism, right? And I don't know what happened. Some magic actually happened.
You may not like feel the way I felt about this, but we go through, we did like 25 episodes
along on this whole thing, going back to when he was born, Helen 9 to 11 people in one house,
like all this stuff. And like as a kid, he was in the weird stuff and he was just really outspoken.
He was the youngest one. He was just gets what he wants, all this stuff. He's a little brat.
And then later on, you know, he gets in trouble for things. He's doing things as con artists type
stuff, but he's such a charismatic character. He's convincing people. He walks up to one guy,
God has told me that a man would come today and he prophesied that great fortunes would come upon
him if he'd given me $50. Something to this guy gives him $50 fucking dollars. Next thing you know,
you know, he's in cahoots and he believes Joseph Smith and he's a bullshit artist.
But I fell in love with him. I'm not even kidding you. He's the last guy. You'd be like,
this is a good guy. I totally know. He's a horrible, horrible guy. I get it. But I was like,
eager to know his death's coming. And I was like, no, don't die. Like, it was the weirdest series.
I don't know how to describe it. It's funny. It sounds like Wednesday, Odin in American Gods is
a lot like this. But anyway, it's just weird. And Cade says, I watched the movie Troy. Have you seen
the movie? Yeah, yeah. Is that the one with Brad Pitt? Yes. And wasn't a fan. Do you think someone
could make a kick ass Odyssey movie? If so, what would they need to include or exclude? So Troy was
done as a film and they interpreted it mostly as a real politic. Like they tried to make a real,
like what if this really happened? There was another, there was the TV show. What was the TV
show called that I thought was better? There was a TV show where they had the actual gods involved.
Like gods were actually doing things and were actually drivers of the plot, which is much more
like what actually happens in Homer. There was a TV show. I can't remember what it was called.
That was better. I would actually recommend watching the TV show. But even that still wasn't like a
let's make a theatrical production of Homer. No one's done that. I think there was one really
terrible, terrible TV show that did tried it. It was the special effects are so horrible and the
acting was terrible and just couldn't tolerate it. That was Armando Sante, I think was playing Odysseus
in that one. But that was the Odyssey, not the Iliad. But no, I would like to see someone do it
like with Ridley Scott style production values and portray it the way Homer portrays it.
You know, the gods have the gods do the things that they actually do.
Right. Like don't try to turn it into real politic. Like turn it into like just the way it
sung, portray it. You know what I mean? Do a Harry Potter on it, right? Like just make it.
Game of Thrones caught a lot of crap for all of the like sexual scenes. You go like, oh no,
that actually and the violence like Homer is so graphically descriptive of wounds and death and
stuff. You would have to preserve that if you want to really like like the best version of this
would be one that that aesthetically impresses you with the same feelings and pathos. We've
been talking about that and impact that Homer himself or the the the Rhapsodes were singing
Homer intend by singing the play like so that's what I would like to see done. No one's done it.
Okay, but the question is about the odyssey, I think. Should we do it? What I think. Well,
actually, he had because he said Troy, but no, no, at the beginning, but it said should somebody do
always an odyssey. Those are two different things. Yeah. What I think if I were a cinematographer,
which I, of course, am not, I would say the best genre for it would be a mini series.
And I can tell you why I say that the classicist often rightly divide the odyssey in not just by
its books, but by its episodes. So the first four books have to do with Telemachus. You could deal
with that in a mini series in an hour and a half presentation. I think so too. Then you can get to
book five, which is the shipwreck and his landing on the on with the Fiakians, and that's called the
Fiaka. And the Naufraga, the in German the shipwreck. And that takes you from books five through eight.
Books nine to 12 are the adventures at sea. And you could do that as another hour and a half
mini series thing. Then you have a section that goes from book 13 to about 21. And this is Odysseus
being back among the suitors and connecting with Telemachus and his colleagues. Then you have the
slaying of the suitors and the resolution of the story. So the Odyssey is made for a mini series.
You could have four, let's say one hour, one and a half hour segments, simply following the
storyline of the Odyssey. And it's full of adventure. It's full of sex. It's full of longing. It's
full of courage. It's cool. It has its own recognition. You could do it almost as a Greek
tragedy in five stages. Thank you. Judas Priest has gotten early skins game tomorrow,
enjoyed the evening. Thanks, Derek, Dennis and Richard, and try not to delete this one, Derek.
Let me tell you, brother, I appreciate that and I'm not going to delete this one. It will not
delete on YouTube and it will not be deleted even if that happened because I've got it on two
different cameras. High definition. So if something happens, then then you know there's a curse or
something happened. I don't know. It can't be, can't be true. Yeah, multiple redundancies.
Right. Read between the lines says, for now, Stephen Fry's audio performance is the bar
to strive for theater in the head. I don't know it, but anything by Stephen Fry is probably good.
Interesting. Someone says Stephen Fry's series is wonderful. All right, Timporeke. This is going
to be the last one, guys, and then I want you guys to plug. So I really appreciate all the Super
Chats. Everyone's support, obviously having these wonderful scholars. Timporeke says,
is Christianity, Platonism in disguise from the Greek Neoplatonic tradition synchronized with
Jewish culture? I don't know about the disguised part, but they do get more and more integrated
over time. It's true. There is a cultural tension inside of the Christian movement of whether it's
going to be philosophical or mythological. And you can see this in sermons such as you have in
John Chrysostom, whom we haven't mentioned yet. But John Chrysostom sometimes uses Homer to illustrate
things in his sermons. And it's really quite fascinating. I have a personal experience of this
with Greek Orthodox. Greek Orthodox are much more interested in the philosophical side,
especially the Platonic Neoplatonic traditions. And they are right that the way they formulate
theology has a lot to do with Neoplatonism. But if you ask that, if you try to introduce the
mythological side of Greek antiquity, they blanch. Soon after one of my books, I was given
an invitation to give lectures at a interreligious group in Cyprus. And the Orthodox would not
boycott the session such that they had to withdraw the invitation to me. And I actually have two
books that have been published in modern Greek. And I had to write a special conclusion to one of them
because to explain why this material needs to be accepted is a part of the Greek Orthodox tradition
and not just the philosophical one. In Dakota, I was in Greece at a professional society.
I was wearing a nametag that said Dennis McDonald and I went into a bookstore next to the university
to buy some books. The person at the counter saw Dennis McDonald and he said,
are you the Dennis McDonald that wrote the Homeric epics in the Gospel of Mark? I said, yes.
He stood up and grabbed my Greek translation of my book, signed it, and gave it to me. And he said,
we use this as a textbook at the University of Athens. So there is a thirst for this kind of
thing among academics, but not from the Orthodox. Because these analogies between Jesus and classical
Greek poetry are a threat to them. And the person that wanted me, that funded the translation and
publication of this book in Greek was a Greek atheist. Oh, you're lucky you got a hold of that.
Well, we've got a lot more people that aren't academic, for example,
Mithvision and other YouTube channels that are really into this stuff. And we need to do that more.
So, dude, I really appreciate all of these, the love, the questions, the super chats, of course,
keep us going. So for those who obviously have an issue with the way that I run things here,
this is how I do this, just so you know. This is full time. This is the way that I provide to make
sure I'm doing what I'm doing, getting these wonderful gentlemen here. Oh man, you had to ask
the question. Okay, so it's tied in, Mitch. In the question that was asked, Mitch asked,
Stoic influences that might tie on to Temporar Kay's question. Stoic influences that might tie in to...
I'm sure that Richard has a lot to say about it. The issue of Stoicism needs to be understood really
within the context of Neoplatonism. Because you have this merging of Stoicism,
it's not a pure form of Stoicism. It's a Platonism. It's a clunging, for sure.
And it's called sometimes Middle Platonism or Late Stoicism. And yes, that is very important for
Christian identity. And you can see this in Augustine City of God, where a lot of Stoic or
Middle Platonic texts are preserved. Because he sees the similarities between what has happened
in the by the fourth century with Christian theology. And the big point is this,
the Stoics were able to give an ethic to Platonism that the Platonic
corpus wasn't able to supply. And Stoicism was largely a philosophy built on ethics and on
conduct and on the satisfaction of living in life according to your state. Not too far, by the way,
from Confucianism, actually. Yeah, indeed. Actually, Stoicism and Confucianism have a
lot. Not much like Roman culture and Chinese culture. Han Chinese culture especially had a
lot in common. But there's also just metaphysics. The metaphysics. Stoics is influential. So new
mythology and Logos theory have a lot of influence from Stoic stuff. I cite some examples. I cite
some of the scholarship on this. There's been some articles by scholars who have written this,
explored mostly in like the Pauline corpus and then some other later theology, not too far
from Paul. But yeah, Stoicism definitely had an effect, but it's important to understand in context
by the time we get to the Roman Empire, eclecticism in philosophy was very popular.
Even among the Pagans. So especially among the more scientific ones, because those are the ones
that I study the most, eclecticism was the norm. So you wouldn't go around claiming I'm a Platonist
or I'm an Epicurean. Like there were people who did that. There were people, but usually there
are a lot also people who said like, no, you pick and choose and you symbol your own philosophy from
among all the ideas that you get. Even Seneca, who of course is a famous Stoic philosopher and
identified very much strongly with Stoicism, even he says you should take nectar from all
of the philosophies. You should study them all and then build your own philosophy out of them.
So eclecticism was already normal, but like a lot of people were doing it. So for Christianity to
have an eclectic philosophical perspective is completely in context to make sense.
It would be fun to read Marcus Aurelius' memoirs in the context of Christianity for the same time.
Yeah, and he even mentions Christians in that. Thank you. Cade, well, thank you for the love.
No question, just send in love. I wish all of you guys way more than luck. Thank you for that.
I appreciate that. That's our final question that we took and Cade really emailed me,
Derrick, at McVisionPodcast.com. And I would like to do something special, especially for all the
support that you do. It really helps me a lot. Seriously, I can try and do something to reward
you in return for all your help. Indo says, I would buy your book, but if my parents found a
book in my room called Jesus from Space, I'd probably get kicked out. Thanks for your time, guys.
Well, definitely then don't buy Hitler, Homer, Bible, Christ. That won't go over well either.
That's a good super chat, Indo. That's hilarious. Jesus from Space. Oh my goodness. I probably
wouldn't understand, of course. What is drug testing? Right, right, right. Especially it has a
psychedelic cover, too, which that one would not fly. We're drug testing this a lot. What the hell?
Thank you so much. Oh, man, I really appreciate it. So, gentlemen, plug it. We'll start with
you, Carrier. We'll go to Dennis. Plug. How can people help you? Yeah, if you want to help,
you know, and I am, I'm an independent scholar. I actually, this is what I do for a living,
is do appearances, do, I publish writings, I blog. My Patreon supporters help fund my blog,
so that all my blog articles are available for free around the world. So, I welcome anyone who's
willing to support me on Patreon. That's probably one of the most important ways that keeps me
doing what I do. But I also teach online courses every month. You can find out about that.
Buy my books. It's great to get the royalties from the books. And it's best I get a commission.
If you buy the books through my website, any link on my website will go through Amazon,
and Amazon will actually tit me for it. So, I get a royalty and a commission if you do it that way.
But I also have other recommendations. So, I have a recommendations page there for Origins of
Christianity, for Philosophy of Naturalism, for Ancient Science, and all of that stuff. I
have to admit, I am a shill for Amazon because they give me a commission if you buy through my
site. So, go, they would love it if you go there and buy a bunch of books through my site.
And so, that's it. I cobble together a living through all these little income streams. So,
any of them are helpful. And if you want to explore more, I have a how to help link on my website,
where you can go and look at all the different things that...
Like during classes, I mean, like I'm...
Yeah. Honestly, I even sell a card game, a weird card game I invented in high school in the 1980s.
So, there's all kinds of stuff in there.
Millionaries to help. Awesome.
Anyway, Richardcarrier.info. You can find all that and all my feeds, Facebook, Twitter.
It's down in the description too. So, they can go, they're not like guessing what it is.
There are hyperlinks in the description of this video.
Cool. They can go Boxer, Fencer. Before we get to Dennis real quick,
write your message, your question. I didn't see it because I'm looking at the super chats.
And when people do that, that's how I keep MythVision alive.
So, if you have a normal grade, because it comes across as great text,
among hundreds of other great texts where people are asking questions,
and most of the content that is not super chatted is like not even talking about what we're talking
about. Usually, people are like, no, my dog is bigger than your dog. And I'm like, okay, we're
talking about your dog. And it flies back too fast to follow.
It flies so fast. So, forgive me. You've been around forever. So, I want to try and answer
your question. And I didn't see a super chat from you. So, I'm just going with the color that pops
up. And it's a way of keeping MythVision going. So, for those who wonder why, why is it always
super chats? Well, there's quite a lot of them already.
It'll work. Nine to five. And, you know, make sure you, you know. Anyway,
Dennis. Dennis, how can people support what you do? Or what would you like people? Because you're
got a different agenda. What is your thing? Well, I don't have a social media presence
other than what you are doing and occasionally some other interviews. If people are interested
in supporting my work, they should be supporting your work. I'm embarrassed that my books,
though, in print are for the most, not all of them are, but they are quite expensive.
And the distribution does not include very much distribution or advertising outside of North
America. And these books, for the most part, are also not available, for the most part, are also
not available audibly or as PDFs. So, what I'd like people to do, if they're interested in
reading my work, is just get introduced to it either by mythologizing Jesus, which is the most
fun it has to do with the mimesis criticism, or a kind of introduction to the Q hypothesis I have,
a book that is called From the Earliest Gospel to the Gospel of Mark. And unfortunately, it also
is quite expensive. But I'm hoping soon to finish a book that I call A Mimetic Synopsis of the Gospels,
which is a reference work that includes every word in the Gospels in an English translation
with a methodological introduction and introductions to individual tales
that have parallels, especially in Greek poetry, but many also in the Jewish Bible.
So, stay alert to that, and you'll know about that if you stay alert to what Derek Lambert is
trying to do in this website. And we scratch, we only scratch. Once that comes out, spread the word
about it, get more people excited about it, like make that a thing for people to start looking at.
Absolutely, ladies and gentlemen. I'm saying that to the audience even. Yeah, that's what you just
get more people aware, share it out there, start spreading it, because once you watch these videos
that I'm going to be putting out, I think most people who don't have the content,
I really recommend they get the books to be convinced of it. The same as I would recommend
anyone who comes into this going, no, Bart Ehrman believes Jesus exists, therefore I don't need to
read Richard, no, you should be educated on it, so you can at least know why. Even if you don't
like agree with some of the data, you go, I just, sorry, I think you got it. At least know the
correct reasons why I believe what I believe. Right, and the same goes for Dennis. How many
people hand wave them off? It was in the air, it's not mimesis. Have you read anything? No. So
once you guys get into it, I would like for you guys to spread this like wildfire on the web,
let more people know, because me and Richard are convinced on this mimesis to the Greek poets,
epic poets you name it, Euripides the Bacchai, obviously with Dionysus, and Iliad the Odyssey,
of course, which is working off of the previous literature. It's just, it's really a revelation,
like a spiritual experience for me. It's also exciting, it's a great way to appreciate literature
too, because it's absolutely, that's the thing I find. It's always fascinating to see the creativity
and the brilliance. The Bible becomes more brilliant the more you get the parallels they're
putting into it. That is really important. How they're using this as a language to communicate
the points they want to communicate. You're right. So I did not see boxer, fencers. Okay,
my question again. Derek, you forgot my question. Oh, that was a while ago. Okay, I was waiting,
unless they left already. I mean, look, that's how, you know, I try to really write, and I think
people just think, you know, I saw one person go, oh, look, it refreshes the scrolling is too fast.
I couldn't keep up with it. Some people don't like that it's people who pay and they get their
question answered. And it's like, that's the point. Yeah, yeah. What would you do for me?
Sorry, your super chat gets ignored. I'm going only for the gray ones.
No, no, it's, it's, it's, I don't know what you expect. So I just hate that. But, you know, I'm
trying plus it's like the like a decent question can be asked for five bucks. I mean, why are people
complaining about $5? I'm recording it on 1080p with like a $750 lens. And it's my definition.
And I just bought that lens out of my own pocket. Yeah, I imagine what it's like you invest in the
very thing you believe in is going to be changing the world for the better. You got to get, there
has to be monetized somehow. You know, people have to support it and make it real. Yeah. So anyway,
I hope you see that boxer, Spencer. And I know you love the content. You just don't love that. I
don't answer your question. But I love you. And I love everybody else who watches and I totally
get it. I do try to, when we run out of suggests, try to see if there's a question there. But I'm
not about to scroll on my phone. And for those of you who are on here, as I'm leaving, I'm using
my phone right now. I don't usually do any of this. It's on my computer. So when the audio dropped,
wait for the thing that's going to drop on Patreon, the live, I'm going to splice it all together.
The audio does not drop. If there were technical issues, if it glitched any of that, that's because
I'm using my phone. I usually am on my computer doing lives. We don't have that problem. Yeah,
the permanent record is on a completely different camera system. So yeah, you guys will see that
and your name's getting mentioned and stuff. So it goes down in history.
And when Dennis and Richard go to see God in heaven,
love you guys and never forget we are
