All right, all right, we are live MythVision podcast.
I hope everybody's doing okay.
You can hear me clearly.
Figure I jump on here live,
just got back from the gym
and I try to make that a routine now
to keep my mental health good and my body good,
especially post COVID.
I had a little bit of a,
almost like a beer belly going.
And it was really from like Slim Jim's
and Dollar Tree candy,
just sitting there watching shows and stuff
when we all went through that stage
of hibernation from COVID.
And now, of course, trying to take good care of myself
and it's a routine.
It's really something I encourage everybody to try and do,
even though you don't want to do it, do it, trust me,
get used to it.
I figure let's talk is generic enough
because there are so many things
we could talk about upcoming stuff,
stuff that I've recently been doing,
projects I'm working on currently,
projects that have already been accomplished,
which are only on Patreon,
courses I have planned for the future,
live streams that I'm gonna be doing with academics
and of course continuing to play into the online,
polemic, anti-apologetic stuff
that you see on the internet.
And I kind of want to lay out upfront my heart,
my who I am as a person.
In reality, many of these titles,
they're sensational, they're purposeful.
I do it because that's what gets people to click.
But once you click, you can see that I'm attempting
to make a meaningful and deep observation
on the material that's being discussed
and not just surface level shenanigans
that you might hear in a lot of different circles.
I'm attempting to be as accurate as I think
is truthful with the material.
And what I find interesting,
I saw someone post this, you might relate to me on this.
There is a sin of certainty that people have.
And when you get into real critical thinking,
critical scholarship,
especially when you're dealing with history,
which is probabilistic, it's based on probabilities
and it's speculative in many ways based on data
that you might observe archaeologically, textually,
the list can go on.
And we have other tools that we use,
methods that we use in order to try and ascertain,
did this happen, did this not, the list can go on.
We try to be fair.
We try to be equally fair in those observations
when we're doing it on Homeric studies,
biblical studies, New Testament studies, you name it.
This is what we're trying to do.
And I find that the reason I have such an axe
to grind with apologetics
isn't because they believe in God.
I wanna say this very clear up front.
I have nothing against people who believe in a God
or believe that God exists or anything like that.
I have my personal take that I'm not persuaded,
I'm not convinced.
And I think that many of the ideas about God lead
in a self-delusional way to harmful activities
to oneself and in the world.
I don't want that to be what I'm interpreted as
from everyone out there.
I understand I get categorized that way
because unlike many people who don't tell
their particular ontology,
I have no interest in kind of hiding that
or even you can pigeonhole me.
Go ahead and poison the well if you'd like.
I don't care.
What my goal is, is to show this certainty,
this confidence and the special pleading that takes place
on behalf of those who hold to something sacred.
For example, my recent video that I did yesterday
where I had the log coming out of David Wood's eye.
I actually enjoy many of the videos
where David Wood is critical toward Islam.
And in fact, the recent video I was picking apart,
I personally don't know the textual criticism side
of whether or not they inserted the name Muhammad
in order to create a later legend
to dominate Jewish and Christian people
here at the shrine, the Dome of the Rock.
I don't know if that's true,
but it's an interesting observation.
And if it is true, that's awesome.
That's a really cool observation that David makes.
I just wanted to point out how everything he said
literally applies to Christianity
and the biblical texts that we read.
And critical scholars have been doing this for centuries now
on the Bible.
I wanna encourage people to be critical
of Islam more and more, of course.
But if we're gonna do it,
we should be consistent, I think, and being fair.
And I just don't think my team's correct
when it's easily blatantly obvious
that you have the same problems, if not even more,
in many cases, with your own position.
And then you go out there.
I could see something like a conversation happening
with me and David and it trying to spin onto,
well, what's your position?
What is your worldview?
And I'm not the one who's making the claim.
I know many Christians who actually do textual criticism
on the Bible and will point out flaws.
In fact, I pulled one off the shelf
of one of the leading New Testament scholars
in the world right now,
Delcey Allison, Jr.,
who might admire and appreciate,
and he is a Christian,
but he does his best to be fair,
to be not certain,
because he knows that you can't be certain.
This is a faith thing that people are jumping
to the conclusion,
and he thinks the personal experience
is something that is necessary
to persuade one.
It should be that.
I mean, the historical evidence he said
would not persuade him alone,
and he's being fair.
So I wanna get that off my chest upfront
because I think almost everybody in my family is Christian,
and I love them, I spend time with them almost every day.
I'm speaking of my mom, my dad, my brother, my sisters,
like everybody that I talk to,
that I engage with on a daily basis,
they're Christians.
And I don't talk about these things around them often
because they don't want to,
and when the conversations have come up,
I share my perspective in a way
that I think is gentle enough that isn't offensive.
They understand my position.
I understand where they're coming from,
and they know that,
well, Derek's done a deep dive
that I don't think I'll ever do with my own religion.
They admit I don't think I'll ever have an interest
on even trying to pill back the curtains
of my own religion.
I'm totally fine with Jesus on Sunday
and love my neighbor and great message.
Thank you for telling me to love my spouse
and do the next right thing,
self-help kind of Christianity that works for them.
And I don't wanna take that away from them.
In fact, I'll word it another way back to David Wood.
If David Wood literally is being absolutely honest
by saying, if Christianity's false,
I will go out there murdering people,
as he said in debates and stuff.
Then I hope he is convinced that Christianity's true
for his own and the people
who potentially could be endangered believe,
I hope he believes that it's true.
If that's what it takes,
I don't believe,
I don't think that's an honest reality,
but nonetheless, if that's what he needs to not murder,
okay, then believe what you gotta believe.
I don't wanna take that away from you.
I want the viewers who are being persuaded
by his kind of rhetoric to also understand
that the same applies for his own worldview, Christianity.
And you can poke holes at my worldview all you want.
I'm not in the tribe.
I don't feel that I'm part of a tribe.
I think there are so many variations of skeptics
that are out there.
And I try not to be as tribalistic as I possibly can,
even though when it comes to critical thinking
and critical scholarship,
there tends to be grooves that are set out based
on the evidence and arguments that are in the field.
And they don't all agree on data,
but there seems to be general consensus on certain ideas
that they do tend to agree on.
And I like to even test those.
Now, I don't jump to, oh, God, breathe.
No, I test them as in,
are there other hypotheses using a historical critical method
which just assumes naturalism in its observations.
It doesn't jump through the miraculous.
I tend to think the reason they do that,
and this is my personal observation, is genre.
Oftentimes there's clearly a genre observation
where something fits, folktale, fiction, myth, legend,
if you're interested in that and wanting to see that
in Homer's Odyssey and the Ancient Near East,
Bruce Loudon's book, I'm rereading it again.
And man, too bad he's dead.
He died a few years back from cancer.
I would be flying out to interview him if he would have me.
This guy blows the lid off.
He's observing genre.
And the best way I've said this
with that whole, it walks like a duck,
talks like a duck when I'm engaging with apologist,
and they go, that's like false equivocation,
just because it doesn't draw the conclusion
that it's false or anything like that.
And I get that, you can't prove it didn't happen,
but you have really good reason to be skeptical that it did.
And you could apply the same method
to any of the other claims
that are being said of the other figures,
like Hercules, Heracles, and the Greek Asclepius, Isis,
the Isis cult and the Roman Empire,
they healed the blind, raised the dead, the death,
the cripple, the lame, the whole nine, just like Jesus.
As Vespasian healed the blind and the withered hand
in the writings of some of the Roman historians,
and it's, I think there's three sources
that say that he did that.
I don't think Vespasian actually did that,
but I could see a Christian trying to go,
well, they thought it did happen or something
to try and give it historical value
so that they can apply that to Jesus' miracles as well.
I tend to think this is legend about the Caesars.
And anyway, in that book, he shows you how to categorize,
and it's not just him,
he's sourcing several critical scholars, biblical material
that is clearly the genre of myth.
And once you see that genre category,
and you see it in the New Testament
with like strangers visiting this very,
what is it, theoxony?
I think it's a theoxony myth.
You find this in Luke with the road to Emmaus narrative.
Jesus is walking with them.
They don't even know it's him.
This is similar to what you see with Abraham
or even the Lot story where the angels come
and they don't know that they're entertaining angels.
They don't know that these men
who are sitting there trying to rush these angels
don't even know who these strangers are.
And the theoxony myth is in Ovid's metamorphosis,
we find Ovid's pasty.
There's myths there.
Once you see the genre,
you can start to see connections in that genre.
You don't necessarily need to apply genetic connection,
but you can see it's story.
It is in history.
You can apply that.
And once I see it enough, it's like, okay,
well, you can understand why the obvious observation
by me and critical thinkers and scholars
is that it walks like a duck, talks like a duck.
You can't, I mean, I don't see why
that doesn't seem the most persuasive conclusion
other than psychology, which is why I get accused
by many of the faithful for psychoanalyzing the believer.
Because I know the psychology from my experience
is extremely detrimental to my conclusion.
I cannot conclude that this is false.
My experience told me otherwise,
my emotional investment into this religion
would not allow me.
I can't falsify that experience I had
when I came to the altar, accepting a heavenly father
who could forgive me of any past deed,
any future deed I've ever done
and will never let me down.
I mean, there's so much depth to that psychology there.
I can't help.
It's the dangling fruit in the eye of Adam for me.
And Eve, I want to eat it
because it's got to be something going on there.
And I'm sure psychoanalyzing can happen
to harmed ex-Christians, harmed ex-Muslims.
The list can go on, but I can't help
but feel tempted to do it and I try not to,
but I think there's huge factors in that
because if we were to approach Homer,
the same way they're approaching New Testament studies
or any of these other things,
they would not bat an eye
when they find embarrassing elements of Odysseus.
I saw a recent live stream or a video
that's being set up by my friend Christian apologists
at Testify Eric Manning,
where he's talking about embarrassing elements
of King David proves his historicity.
Well, damn it.
If I open the Odyssey and show you what Odysseus goes through
and the things he does, where he's on his journey
and he's also having sex with other women
and he loves his wife Penelope
and he's struggling with these kind of,
these human aspects that we all kind of deal with
in our lives.
This kind of makes the various the multitude
and the reality of Odysseus true in the Odyssey.
I got a call coming in here.
Oh, sorry about that.
Anyway, that was a long rant.
Forgive me if I have totally ignored the comment section
but there's so much to unburden myself
and to speak freely about what I'm going through.
And this is like therapy for me.
For anybody who doesn't know,
sometimes you gotta talk to someone.
Anyway, let me just address this heretic in the chat.
So since we're all part of the Myth, Vision, Cult,
I asked that everybody crucify this man if it's Josh.
Will you finally denounce Drs. Kip and Josh?
I feel like I'm in front of the Catholic
and the institutes where Martin Luther was.
My conscious and scripture does not allow me to do this.
I cannot in good faith denounce my dear friends,
Drs. Kip and Josh because I know their hearts
and I know they're great people
and I know they mean well
and they're trying to do what I'm doing.
So whoever you are, you can't be Drs. Kip or Josh.
You can shove it, you can shove it.
Anyway, thank you for the super chat, Josh.
Appreciate the love, my friend.
Uh-oh, we got Garfield in here.
Garfield, talking about put on the shirt.
Look, man, I just got from the gym, bro.
I just got back from the gym.
I can't denounce them.
That's blasphemy of the holy myth vision.
Are you kidding me?
Are you kidding me?
Oh, someone's brought up David Wood, like the clown.
Look, I'd love to talk with the guy.
I'd just be in an interesting experiment.
Everyone who watches myth vision knows
I'm not into debates myself, I'm not a debater.
In fact, there are people rhetorically and skilled
with debating are better than I imagine I am
because I have no practice or experience with debates.
But I like human contact and communication
and having conversations that I think are meaningful,
trying to have honest, fair, real conversations,
not a just gotcha.
I wanna explain where I'm coming from,
why I conclude what I do, and then hear them out
and hear what they have to say.
That's my goal.
And I don't know, I texted him this morning.
I don't know if he'll want to have
that kind of conversation with me.
I don't know if it matters.
He's got mainly just an anti-Islamic angle.
And a lot of it applies to Christianity.
You can point out some maybe modern factors
in terms of some of the extremism
that you may see in the world that is far worse
than maybe what Christians are practicing at the moment.
But go back a few centuries.
And you might see some very interesting patterns
that we find within Christianity.
And so I appreciate trying to hold the feet of Islam
to modernity and trying to get it to conform.
But guess what?
I'm not the only one.
We're ignoring the voices of many Muslims
who also want to do that.
So while I'm not a Muslim and you all know
I don't think Muhammad is a prophet,
you all think you all know,
and I plan on doing documentaries
to show mythology in the Quran,
which some might think that falsifies it,
more fundamentalist types.
Others, like my friend Javad Hashmi, PhD at Harvard,
he's a Muslim scholar,
he actually admits there's mythology in the Quran.
Well, that kind of person I want to give credit to
and want to advance,
even if I don't draw their conclusions.
I want people like that to be the voice
in their communities,
because most Muslims aren't gonna listen to this guy.
Most Muslims may not listen to,
obviously may not listen to David Wood.
Most Muslims are gonna listen to a Muslim.
And so that's my goal.
Damn, I did it again.
I literally just unburdened again, didn't I?
Are you all feeling the presence right now
of the myth, vision, spirit?
I feel it.
The presence is there, strong, teasing.
Hey, everybody.
I'm trying to go back up to the top.
There's been quite a few who've chat already,
sent comments.
Welcome, everybody.
Jackie, Nitty, James Apperson, Keanu Reeves.
We know that's the real Keanu who tunes into us, of course.
Caterpillar, Dr. Kip Davis, George, is it Jordy?
Jordy, I'm just scrolling down here.
Eurek, Chris, obviously Garfield, Steve from Yellowstone,
Dr. Cheryl.
I'm trying to get, Barron?
Dayos?
Dayos, forgive me.
Duckman, Tetragrammaton.
You guys know I'm the worst for pronouncing stuff.
I even leave some of that stuff in my documentaries
and I catch a lot of crap.
If you want us to take you seriously,
you should learn how to pronounce everything meticulously.
No, I'm not a grammar Nazi.
I'm just trying to tell you we can't take you serious
and it's like, dude, I'm not the guy
who came up with these ideas.
Go fact-check them.
I'm just trying to put information out there.
Sorry that I'm not impeccable and perfect.
But you might ask my wife.
No, she won't say I'm perfect either.
Is it Wonita GC?
I probably butchered the name.
Thank you for becoming a member.
I really appreciate that.
It always means a lot to have support
and creating a community of people
who help us keep bringing what I think is fair
and as accurate as we're gonna get information
as we assess these ancient stories, text, history,
myths, legends, folklore.
Man, I wanna get into the Odyssey.
I wanna get into ancient hit type mythology.
I wanna get into ancient Mesopotamian stuff.
And I want to expand our horizons
and show that the same applicability
that people who are in critical scholarship
are also doing all of this in all of these other fields.
And so we can actually start broadening our perspective
beyond just the Bible and realize,
oh, you mean to tell me there were claims,
these claims about these figures back there?
Well, why don't we believe them?
Critical scholars cut through that stuff
like a hot knife through butter.
They don't waste their time thinking
if Hammurabi legitimately got divine laws
from the God Shamash, the sun God.
And these are really divine revelations given to Hammurabi
from Shamash that these kings actually were divinely born
by the gods themselves and the list goes on and on.
No, but we do with Jesus, don't we?
The LOL bit, I'm Eric, my 10-year-old hijack,
my profile, laugh out loud,
but would love a show on different church fathers
such as Lutheran or John Calvin, John Calvin.
That would be an interesting thing to peel back
from a skeptical point of view.
I know a little bit about how much the hate towards Jews was
in a lot of their rhetoric and what they wrote,
but coming from that kind of Protestant tradition
that I did be interesting to reevaluate it
from I no longer believe this stuff perspectives.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
I don't blame you, my kids take my phone sometimes
and wanna play games
and I wonder what they're loading, downloading,
changing, you never know.
Neil, thank you for becoming a member.
I appreciate that, Mr. Conway,
appreciate the membership and supporting the channel.
Anyone who has that member symbol,
you can see it right next to the name.
Their names are written in the Myth, Vision book of life.
They cannot be erased, unlike the book of Revelation,
which talks about blotting stuff out.
If you change words, you can't.
It's once saved, always saved.
Clearly the stamp proves that.
So thank you for everybody who's a member.
I'm looking to make sure I don't miss things here
as I go forward as much as possible.
Nate says, Derrick's new channel,
discussing religious scholarship while working out.
I'd look like a nut job.
Can you imagine being in like a planet fitness sitting there
going, and then he had an apotheosis.
Gypsy Daisy, I became curious,
went searching and came out the other side without my faith.
Seriously, thank you, Derrick.
Never been more at peace.
Interesting.
I think it's interesting to find contentness
in not having all the answers.
Being comfortable human.
Like, I was just reading.
Who was it I was reading to yesterday?
I was explaining, where's my phone at?
I don't know why I get all meticulous
about details and wanting to be at like this person.
That's been, oh, my buddy, Uma.
I was talking to him in light of the David Wood stuff
and I needed a source and he's pretty good
at finding some sources that showed
that Muslims hired Christian architects.
What they do to build the shrine we see
on the Temple Mount today.
And we talked and I was explaining Christianity
and what Ignatius says in his letter to the Romans.
Some of them, the titles, like he says, I want to die.
Like these chapters where he's writing his letter,
he literally expresses, I want to die
so then I can attain to God.
I need this flesh to be over, to attain to God
and to be a true disciple of Christ.
To take up my cross and follow him.
That's his interpretation of Christianity.
He hates the flesh.
He hopes he's food ground in the teeth of the beast.
And he describes the beast being 10 soldiers
who have him imprisoned.
And if they won't kill me, he says,
I will entice them and make them do so.
This is nuts.
This is crazy.
So I was explaining that you get hints of this in Paul
with this like detestable flesh that we're in.
It feels very good to me to not hate my flesh now.
Like psychologically, that is something that I feel.
And just one comment on this,
I didn't want to dwell on this
because I'm hoping this gets fixed.
But I think it was Rob from Sentinel Apologetics,
made a recent community post,
dramas in the air right now accusing,
I believe it's Dan McClellan and Kip Davis
of defending Stavrakapulu and anti-Semitism gets thrown up
because Stavrakapulu sees things
that are ancient Near Eastern concepts in the Bible
that is ubiquitous in Egyptian mythology,
Mesopotamian mythology, Phoenician
and Canaanite mythology with Adam Garrett.
The list goes on.
To give you an example,
and I'm trying not to be too explicit,
but the gods bone the ground, bone each other.
I'm using the word bone to say sex.
There is so much sexual language in creation, in death,
in procreating, in everything that is all throughout this
and she sees hints of it in the Bible.
And so I think anti-Semitism got brought up
and I'm like, well, if we observe things
that are in the ancient Near East like that,
if that observation is being seen
in the Bible viewed of God, would that be?
Something is like hateful toward Jewish people?
I understand that most Jews
do not interpret these texts that way,
or Christians may not interpret these texts that way.
I understand that.
But what observations do we see with the texts
that might give that kind of interpretation?
Where's the hate in that?
If we're accurately trying to look at this comparative,
so I hope that the whole drama ends
because I think that's a wholly inaccurate assessment
of what critical scholars are doing here.
Though not defending Robin this,
historically many critical scholars,
especially in Germany, have been anti-Semites
and may have been motivated in their reasoning,
in many cases, to draw conclusions.
I know that's not Kipp and I know that's not Dan.
I know that.
So I think that the drama needs to end yesterday.
Apostate Aladdin and the Hizzy,
what's the most surprising thing you've learned
about any religion?
The most surprising?
The most surprising thing I've learned.
I don't, that's like, what's your favorite song
on planet Earth?
There's so many songs that I like
in different genres and stuff.
It's super hard to nail that one down.
I think what really interests me
as far as what I've learned is that that thumbprint
of humanity, seeing how human they all are,
not needing magic to explain them.
They all are explainable without the magic.
That, to me, has been one of the surprising conclusions.
The other surprising conclusion I would say
is the further back you get,
the more sexual many of these mythologies are explicit,
which tells me a phobia develops within these religions.
I would maybe say sometime after Plato
when flesh and sexuality, we're looking at asceticism,
we shouldn't do those things, that's nasty, that's bad,
and the ancients didn't give a who.
They let it all hang out
and they flexed it in their mythologies.
So what happened to us to be so resistant
and allergic to what is so normal and natural?
To me, that's surprising
that we kind of have become extremely allergic
to what is completely normal.
And of course, I don't have all that figured out myself,
but you see it in society.
The way women are treated in many ways,
that has been quite surprising as well,
to watch how women were treated,
have been treated in these texts,
and then even today, remnants, fossils
that are still alive of an idea that needs to die out
on how women are observed and treated in society,
that is surprising to me.
And anyway, the reason is I'm a dude, right?
I'm just throwing it out there.
I'm a dude who just doesn't see that,
never saw that my whole life.
And then when I started to really empathize,
putting on the shoes of other people trying to understand,
then I started going, oh my gosh,
the people who've been treated the worst
throughout all of history have been women.
And that really just blew my mind how bad,
and how they just been along for the ride.
We've been behind the steering wheel,
really wrecking the car, bumping into everything.
And I wonder what it would be like to just,
switch seats for a minute.
Anyway, I had to catch you.
I saw you here, so I had to shout you out.
Thanks for the question.
Callan Radu, Radu, thank you for the Super Sticker
and you see that eternal salvation stamp?
They're in the book and they ain't going nowhere.
Thank you so much for the love.
Thanks for the Super Sticker.
I don't know, let me see if I could find
if you had a comment, Callan.
I don't want to leave you hanging in case you did.
I don't see one.
I do not see one.
So I just want to make sure.
I don't want to leave anybody hanging here.
Did I already get your name?
I don't know.
Oh my gosh, who's this guy?
Gnostic informant, Derek of Macedon.
Inside joke, every time, almost every time,
that Neil Everprivate messages me.
He has like this like Derek the Gnostic,
Derek the Macedonian, Derek King of Persia.
You know, like he always jokes with like some Derek of
and I always like call him like Neil Elitis
or something we joke around.
Of course, Romulus and Osiris did not rise.
Those sources don't count.
Only the Gospels count.
Don't you know this is a proven fact?
I'm glad you're here to set the record straight Neil.
I just, you know, I didn't realize that,
but let me open up the book
and read the fine print real quick here.
Make sure you special plead the Gospels
and do not allow any other myth or claim
of any other religious views be true
other than our particular one of Jesus.
And if anyone tries to show any type of heuristic
or comparison between Jesus and other figures,
just shout them out and shut them up.
Oh, okay.
Hey, Neil, you're right, man.
It's a fact that this one's true
and all of them are wrong.
The small print said so.
So thanks a lot for the super chat, man.
I love you.
I know now who to follow and believe.
So thank you so much for the super chat.
Oh, while your super chats here
and I hope everybody subscribes to your channel,
you have a documentary coming out
and it's gonna be primary source after primary source.
So you can make your mind up
looking at some of this really interesting stuff
pertaining to the New Testament and various other gods.
So be on the lookout for Gnostic informant,
transformational coach.
I like that name.
Thanks for your videos, very helpful.
As a de-converting conservative Baptist,
is there a specific book, channel
you would recommend for help?
Interesting.
Um, that's a really,
it depends on what you're looking for.
When you say help,
some people need to actually talk to a professional
about how it's affected them,
the kind of trauma they may have experienced psychologically
due to the religion
or even the kind of issues that may be involved
in the fact that they are involved
in a Christian community
and they're no longer believing what the tribe believes.
So how do we navigate the world we live in
that's real around us every day
and yet not necessarily draw the conclusions
that we think this might be literally true?
There are various conclusions that some might need to take.
We had a pastor call in when I was on Ichipod,
Ichipod, Ichipod, Ichipod, Brady Goodwin.
He's the ex-Christian rapper
who we had a caller who was a pastor
and he doesn't believe he has these doubts
but he's a pastor leading a church
who did not want to be named asking for advice
and he wants to be accurate though
and he struggles
because this is everything that provides for his family.
And I go the harm reduction route.
I don't think all or nothing needs to be the answer.
Don't do it like me.
In fact, to give you a little inside history,
this may be too much for some of you
but I don't care, I think it's necessary.
I'm a recovering drug addict
and the way I withdrawal it off heroin years back,
almost nine years now is cold turkey.
I don't recommend you sit on your couch
and suffer at home for weeks getting off a heroin.
I think you need professional help
and try to go that route
because you could die doing the wrong things.
And if you end up relapsing and overdosing
because your tolerance is down, anyway, you get the point.
Well, I don't think all or nothing necessarily needs
to be the case for deconversion
or people who are going through this.
So I found meaning in the text in a different way.
I enjoyed Manly P. Hall, which is a 1930s,
he's a Freemason and he found ways to allegorically
interpret much of the Hebrew scriptures
in Old Testament, New Testament stuff
which may not even be accurate
but it was really interesting
to see how he renegotiated these texts,
applying them to celestial bodies.
Cause we know that celestial bodies
were significant to ancient people.
I don't know what path you might need to take
in that respect, but there's tons of channels
that are doing alternative interpretations on the Bible
rather than trying to hold it up as history
in every situation.
And I encourage those, whatever conclusion
those people draw in terms of their ontology,
it's just trying to get away from the things
of literalist fundamentalism that I think will be helpful.
I don't really know the answer to your question.
Everybody's a bit different,
but I would say it doesn't hurt to get professional help
if you have a counselor or someone you can talk to
that you can unburden.
I'm pretty transparent and I lay all my dirty laundry
out here on you guys and it makes me feel better
just to have these conversations with you
and saying what's on my chest.
But some people need to make a YouTube channel.
If you ask any ex-Muslim, ex-Christian, whoever they are,
and they feel like they can go public, it is therapeutic,
believe it or not, to just speak what you think
and to be able to do that with a community
that supports you and is cheering you on and says,
hey, you're not alone in that.
I think that way too.
That's another method.
That helped me get clean off drugs
and it's helped me in my process of navigating life
as a non-Christian today.
Uh-oh, we have a new member to the Colt, of course,
Thor 316.
If you haven't read that verse, you really, really should.
Thor loved the world so much that he gave,
anyway, I don't wanna give you the whole spill,
you'll have to find it when you become an initiate.
Thank you for becoming a member.
I really appreciate the support.
It means a lot.
Thank you, Thor.
Scott Rutherford, heard of a book called The OAHSPE?
I have not.
Let me look it up.
OAHSPE, a new Bible.
Let me share the screen for a second
to show you what I'm looking at here.
So OAHSPE, a new Bible, was published in 1882,
reporting to contain new revelations
from the ambassadors of the angel host of heaven,
prepared and revealed unto man in the name of Jehovah.
It was produced by an American dentist,
John Ballot, Newbro, 1828 to 1891,
who reported to have been written by an automatic writing,
or by automatic writing,
making it one of the number,
one of a number of 19th century spiritualist works
attributed to that practice.
The text defines adherence of the disciplines expounded
in OAHSPE as faithists.
New Bible and the words of Jehovah and his angel.
And you know what interests me is like the spelling.
How many people get angry
on how you spell Jehovah or Yahweh?
And the ancient inscriptions have yah, yahoo,
abbreviated letters like, come on guys, anyway.
Yeah, I don't know.
It sounds like kind of like a shaker's type
of spiritualist type of thing,
but interesting nonetheless.
I've never heard of it till now.
Thank you for bringing that to my attention, Scott.
I appreciate that.
Oh, Satan's in the house.
Holy smokes.
Thank you, Satan's guy.
Tithing for the man, the myth vision, Derek Lambert.
Well, thank you so much, Satan.
I never thought I'd thank Satan for giving me tithes.
What are the odds?
There's gonna be some literalists,
some people who really do think there's stuff going on
that are gonna watch this right now.
And they're gonna, I know what I would have thought
like 10 years ago.
If you haven't seen the documentary, you're going to hell.
That's cause we love you.
We're trying to keep you from going to hell.
So you need to watch the documentary.
You get the point.
But seriously, I was in contact with the man
behind the curtain, Satan, about this documentary
before he launched it.
And I actually helped him in terms of connecting him
with other YouTube figures and give him a little bit
of tips here and there on what I would do on YouTube.
And I'm very proud that the success of that documentary
has taken off like it has and caught the attention of many
who are clearly triggered by what showed up
in that documentary.
And this stuff was like 101 basic critical scholarship
you might learn about New Testament, Old Testament,
and academics are all throughout the documentary,
John Collins, Ronald Handel, Hector Avalos,
which I wish was still alive.
I would have loved to have interviewed the guy.
He was a soft spirit, soft soul, soft person.
And he wrote me the like month before he died
that I can't even talk anymore.
The cancers consumed me.
I wish I could have been part of your journey,
but I'm going to be dead before long.
And that's such a disappointing email coming from him.
Something to that effect.
I could pull up the email and dig into my four year old email
and see, but I hope it reaches 10 million, 20 million,
more people need to see,
because the way you navigate that documentary
is just brilliant.
It's so brilliant, it created Diablo Critics,
which is this ongoing series of a group of scholars
on Kip Davis's YouTube channel.
If you haven't subscribed, you really should.
And they're talking about Mike Winger,
various apologists in how they are reacting
to what the scholars are saying
in the field about these things.
And it's really interesting to hear.
One of the fun observations on that,
this is a plug for Diablo Critics,
is Matthew Munger saying how scholars
don't always need to take the same tack
when they're looking at the Bible.
Some scholars just say,
okay, what is the final form of the Hebrew scriptures?
We get that there's so many ways
to understand various sources, contradicting sources,
problems in the text,
but how do I engage with the Bible in its final form
as a critical scholar?
And they choose that path.
That was an interesting one from the last episode.
I like what Munger said there,
because is it Von Wim Vassilius?
Anyway, he thinks in the final form we have the Bible
that the authors have compiled it
and are inspired by Herodotus' histories.
Yes, none of this is provable in the absolute sense,
but the observation is something
that should be at least considered
being that you have nine major books
in the biblical count from Genesis to Kings
and there are nine books in Herodotus' histories
and he parallels a lot of the interesting overlaps
between the two.
Went down a deep rabbit hole there,
but thank you, Satan.
Thank you so much.
Guitar dog in the hizzy.
Love the name, always have.
And I appreciate you having a dog in the image.
Hey, man, been watching your channel for a long time.
I know, I remember your name and the picture.
Excellent work.
Love your recent interview with Dr. Cargill.
Well, thank you so much, Guitar Dog.
I appreciate that.
And I hope to do another one so I can tease everybody here.
I want to do a response, a critical response,
maybe tone down some of the rhetoric.
I don't know.
I think it's fun sometimes
because I see it happens in like David Woods,
jabbing at Islam and stuff.
Fables in the Quran.
Muslim scholars admit the shocking truth.
This is on his Act 17 polemics.
And I wanna do a video with Dr. Richard C. Miller
who literally wrote,
I'm gonna come back to you in just a second here.
I gotta come back to my screen, stop sharing.
But I wanna respond to that video.
And I wanna show you a scholar.
By the way, there are many scholars
who also agree with what he's saying.
He just capitalizes on the fact
that the New Testament Gospels are loaded with fables.
Wouldn't you know it?
So you're dealing with fables in your own worldview,
but let's ignore that and point out
how the Quran has fables.
Why don't we just say, okay, those have fables,
we have fables over here and there's a,
that's, I wanna pretty much do that,
but I wanna do it in a smart way
and educate people to show Christianity, Judaism, fables.
Just like the Quran would have fables as well.
And anyway, thank you for that compliment.
I didn't know how I wanted to navigate that one,
especially when I knew there was gonna be
a bunch of triggered Christians coming in
and telling me how wrong I am
or that I don't understand.
In fact, I had some take me to tasks saying,
Christians don't ever claim
Old Testament figures are Christians.
And I'm thinking to myself,
these Christians who are Trinitarians,
first of all, would admit Jesus as part of the Godhead.
And they think he's shown up in some type of theophanies
in the Old Testament.
They think he is who Moses wrote about
according to the Gospel of John.
Jesus says to the Pharisees,
Moses, you say you believe in Moses,
but Moses spoke about me.
He wrote about me.
And looking at like 1 Corinthians 10
with the rock that was in the wilderness
that followed the ancient Israelites in the Exodus,
that rock was Christ that Christians
andachronistically have made these people
into Christ followers in many cases.
So much so that that same person tried to accuse me
of making up nonsense saying that Plato
nor Aristotle were actually Christians.
And therefore, we're not actually believers.
Justin Martyr literally says
Aristotle and Plato are in heaven
because the logos revealed itself to them
centuries before,
how do they not say that they're Christians?
Just like Muslims andachronistically
want to fit these heroes, including Jesus,
into the category of their particular,
brand of Abrahamic faith.
And I'm just pointing out
that seems that both of them are doing this.
Okay, enough of that.
M nag in the house,
Genesis really throws women under the bus.
I would say especially with the fact
that you're looking at the woman as the one
who felt gullible to eating first,
according to the Genesis account.
It's pretty common that you find this stuff in ancient texts,
but what Augustus, sorry, not Augustus,
Augustine and even some of the New Testament letters
that are written in the name of Paul,
like I think it is their second Timothy,
first Timothy, a woman should remain silent
and have her man, teacher, everything,
shutter mouth and church, that kind of thing.
And that childbearing will get them salvation
because the woman ate and sinned,
like it puts all the blame on women.
The way it gets interpreted at least
is absolutely horrific for women.
And throughout history,
I can't imagine how many private in-house arguments
that have occurred in the relationship
between husband and wife,
where the man literally throws this up.
I cannot imagine how many.
I'd be a billionaire or trillionaire
for every man who's used this myth against their spouse.
I would probably be a billionaire or trillionaire, literally.
So thanks for the observation,
but I imagine there's so many more.
In fact, I made an observation
when I was helped by Dr. Kipp in a documentary.
Kipp pointed out an interesting observation
between Genesis 38 and what we find with King David.
There's linguistic parallels between the names of Judas' sons.
And that's that story where he ends up sleeping
with his daughter-in-law and the one son ends up dying
because he spills his seed on the ground on the earth.
God smites him.
Well, in this documentary,
I opened it up at the beginning
just to show you in Genesis.
One after another, weird sexual observation
that takes place from seeing Noah's nakedness
to lot sleeping with his two daughters to Judah,
sleeping with his daughter-in-law
who's a prostitute or at least pretending to be one.
Like there's a ton of wild kinky stuff in Genesis.
If anyone takes the time to notice it.
Anyway.
Michael Bell, thank you for the super chat.
Recovering from religion foundation could help.
Good resource for our friend who asked
for any sources that could help them
in their deconversion earlier.
I absolutely recommend checking them out.
I've heard a lot of good stories
from people who participated in that.
They've even have volunteers.
It might be helpful to participate in that,
but you can give them a call.
I think it's free.
They have a telephone number you can call into.
But thank you, thank you.
MNag again, thank you for the super chat.
Kip Davis put me on check.
Genesis really throws women to the snakes.
Hmm.
Interesting.
I'm sure there's several other observations in Genesis
that we can look to on women being bad.
Look at a Potiphar's wife.
She's just so attracted to just,
how often does that freaking happen?
Sorry, the dude in me is coming out,
but like how many times in history in your life
do you like find someone who's like dead,
head over heels for you
that they're like trying to take advantage of you?
Meaning the females doing that.
It doesn't happen often.
I imagine it happens, but it's just like,
come on, you know, his wife is the bad person here.
And the righteous one, Joseph.
So we could probably find several examples.
Darren Lemon, thank you for the super chat.
Just subscribe, really like the channel.
Do you know the reason Norya in Gnostic text
burned the Ark three times?
The three times always confused me, thanks.
I do not, and I'm not aware of this particular text.
And never heard of that.
If there's anyone in the chat,
because our audience is pretty well read and sophisticated,
they've read things I haven't.
If you've read or you have any possible observations
on this super chat, and you're aware of the text,
please answer Darren's super chat.
I'm interested to hear what people have to say,
especially if they know this.
I almost wanna hit Neil up for a call a friend
who wants to be a millionaire and say,
hey, so do you know about this text, the Ark three times?
But I really don't wanna make any even guesses
without knowing the material.
Hard work, thank you for the super chat.
Love the name.
Derek got back from on the gym,
where he clearly read from the swolley book.
Thank you, appreciate that.
I don't know about being swole, but trying to be in shape,
at least trying to take better health,
better care of my health.
Mellie, thank you for the super chat
of all the ancient gods you've learned about so far,
which you find most interesting.
Thanks for all you do.
That's again, like for me right now,
that's like what's your favorite song?
What is your favorite food?
I have tops, but I don't know if I have like the one.
For me,
I would say for me, I'm very interested in Hercules.
I like hearing about this hero figure.
I like to study about Asclepius, this healing God,
and maybe going deeper into the roots
of how the Greeks took ancient Near Eastern concepts.
They're not all proto-Indo-European mythologies
and borrowed from those gods.
I love studying Inky.
What a strange, Prometheus-type God, Prometheus.
These are really interesting deities for me
because Prometheus is that strange,
empathizing deity to humanity,
while the other gods seem so above us
that they don't care that much.
Just shut your mouth and don't be too loud, you know?
Don't bother us in many cases.
Prometheus seems to want to connect to the human realm,
to the human side, and I see that in Inky.
I see that in other figures, like even in Enoch,
you kind of find this remnant of a Dopamine.
It's hard for me to wrap my head around exactly which one,
but for me, because we have a really well-documented
Greek mythology and there's so much of it
that it's easy to trace and track,
I like to see that and then go backwards and forward
and then look at the Bible too,
because I think there's some overlap.
I do not think that they are so separate societies
that Greek mythology and biblical mythology
just have nothing in common or they're completely separate
and they only get their sources
from the much earlier Mesopotamian stuff.
I think there is some type of communication
in some way, shape, or form
between many of the biblical authors
and what's going on in the Greek world as well.
And I'm not even necessarily needing it to be Hellenistic.
I'm saying I flirt with it,
but I think there's more going on,
more communication in the ancient world about these stories
and how these genres influence each other.
So, Mellie, sorry for the long answer
that didn't answer your question specifically,
but gives you kind of an idea
and I'm sure if you bring up another guy,
I'll go, oh yeah, I like that God too.
That's a good one because this, this, this.
So, remnant, is it reminiscence?
Forgive me if I butchered the name, my friend.
Have you read Azizel by Yusuf Zaydan?
The original is Arabic,
but there's an English version.
You will enjoy it.
No, I have not.
Azizel, I know about Azizel being like this desert demon
in the ancient Near East
or specifically the biblical text.
A-Z-A-Z-Z-E or Z-E-E-L, Yusuf Zaydan, got it.
Okay, I will, is that in the English?
Looks like that looks to be English
because the front has English on it
and it is 1890 for the paperback.
All right, I'll save it to one of my recommended books
and check it out.
When I get the chance,
I'll try to check that out and dive in,
see what's going on there.
Thank you so much for that Super Chat
and bringing it to my attention.
I have not read it.
Daniel Whitaker, I appreciate your showing
Greek mythology ties.
Thank you, Daniel.
I love it.
Whether they're genetic or not,
it's clearly in the same genre.
That I can say with high confidence.
That I could say with high confidence.
And I think that the give and take of who came first,
who borrowed from whom, I think it's both.
I think it's both directions
and it just depends on the case.
I look at Ovid's Metamorphosis
and you see an apocalyptic flood narrative
where it's Jupiter and Hermes.
Can't remember which God it is.
It's in the Roman context,
but Jupiter and one of them, the gods,
I think Hermes goes to the town
and goes to a thousand homes
looking for hospitality because they need to eat.
And a thousand homes tell them middle finger,
get away from my house, I'm not helping you.
Then they end up on the outskirts of the town
where an old couple lives
and they're the poorest in the whole town
and they invite these gods
that they don't even know into their home.
They don't know their gods.
Give them the last bit of food that they have
and the very little bit of wine they had left.
And during their meeting with these gods and talking,
the wine just starts to replenish itself.
I don't know why I'm doing this,
but I'm giving you one example
of what just I love about mythology.
And they go, oh my gosh, the husband says to the wife,
I can't even remember their names.
These are gods, the wine keeps filling up.
Go get the rooster, give them the best thing we have.
Kill the rooster, she's old,
she's trying to chase the rooster, can't catch it.
The gods chuckle and say, don't worry about it.
We need you to come with us.
We need you to get on this mountain
because we're about to wipe out everybody in town
for being inhospitable.
That's the sin.
Well, many scholars, classicists included,
have observed and overlap with Lot
and Sodom and Gomorrah in Genesis with this narrative.
And what's ironic is in that destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah,
we know it says, it says it rains.
Hell, storms and fire.
But it talks about this almost like a lake.
We talk about liquid, right?
Lake of fire.
There's like watery language, but it being fire destruction.
And what did they do in that town?
They were inhospitable to the angels
that were there with Lot.
And that is the ultimate sin.
It wasn't homosexuality.
Are you kidding me?
No, look at how they're treating them.
They're not treating them like you should treat a stranger.
And that's a theoxyny.
So I love looking at these connections.
I tend to think that they're inspired somehow
by this example that we find in Genesis.
And we can go on and on.
Patrick Skywalker quoting scripture
is banned on social media now.
It's common knowledge, Yahweh is Baal.
They don't want this being exposed.
I think there's a, well,
I don't know if you watched my video yesterday,
Dr. Robert Cargill talked about the identity of Baal
and El being fused into Yahweh.
So I get the conflation of why people think Baal is Yahweh
because he performs the similar activities as a storm god
and as a warrior deity like Baal,
the writer of the clouds, very much in the same way.
But I don't want us to get parallel mania
to the point where Yahweh is Baal
in the sense that we don't realize that actually
what they've done is absorb this deity
and his activities into Yahweh.
That's what a lot of the academics are saying.
Now, I'm not ruling out the possibility that literally
in some sense, you know, he is this.
I just think it's likely that just like El and El Shaddai
as Dr. Cargill said yesterday
are two different deities in Ugarit mythology
and Baal all kind of get fused.
You even find in Francesca Stavrakapoulou's work,
God and Anatomy, where she points out
that even elements of Asherah and her duties
as the queen of heaven get consumed into Yahweh as well.
He becomes mother of Israel at times.
Where did, what the, he's a father.
Why are we giving him the duties
of what motherhood would have been there?
And so are those elements, fossils of Asherah worship
and Asherah duties in the mythology
that are now being assumed or done on behalf of Yahweh?
Where they kick the queen of heaven out
and now we have the father who does all these things.
He's the writer of the clouds.
He's the ultimate dictator of heaven.
He's the mother and the father and the, you know
all of these activities.
So I love learning this stuff.
I don't know, I love learning it,
but thank you, Patrick for the super chat.
And I don't know about the band on social media
quoting scripture.
I quote it all the time.
So I don't know where that's, where that's at.
Maybe you're just saying people are not wanting to hear
what you're saying or something.
I don't know.
Karen Richardson, thank you for the super sticker.
Thank you, Karen, appreciate that.
Let me see if I've missed a comment by you.
I've been in the super chat section.
Anyone who's ever dealt with StreamYard,
please forgive me if I miss your comments.
I literally go into a different section
where I can't even see your comments
and I'm reading the super chats sequentially
and any super stickers or members, things like that.
So when I see a super sticker, it doesn't show me any texts
and some people might drop a super sticker
and then leave a comment right after that.
They want red and I'm scrolling down to try and find it.
We've quite a few commenters.
If you haven't liked the video yet, hit the like button.
YouTube pays attention to that
and they will recommend the video to more audience.
More of my subscribers will get notified
that this live's happening when you do that.
It's YouTube algorithm.
I can't read its mind.
Okay, I don't see one.
Thank you for the support.
Thank you for the love and just helping out,
keeping the lights on and doing what we're doing here.
Okay, here we go.
PI, I almost want to say PI
because I love the life of PI movie.
Thank you for that super chat.
Inspiring philosophy, I imagine is IP.
Matthew literary use Hebrew, obvious.
So this is the donkey shenanigans again,
which day after tomorrow,
I'm streaming with Dr. James Tabor.
We're going to be showing five very, very
powerful examples of how Matthew changed Mark.
It's so obvious.
I don't know, I'm already imagining gymnastics
and someone doing some crazy backflips to get out of it,
but it's obvious and the scholars
have known this for centuries.
So he's coming on and we're going to talk about that
because he has a course on Mark
that really nails Mark for Mark.
We are so guilty of going to Matthew, Luke and John
to understand Mark.
And we got to stop doing that
if we're going to understand what Mark's intention was.
I brought this up to kit, but like one example,
one example, in Mark, Jesus speaks in parables
and tells you why.
Why does he speak in parables, Derek?
He doesn't want them to understand.
He doesn't want them to understand the synoptic parallel
of Matthew, he speaks in parables
so that people will understand.
Do the backflips all you want, okay?
Do all the backflips you want.
If you miss it, then you just don't get why
Matthew might want to change that in Mark.
Bart Ehrman brings it up all the time.
In Mark, when Jesus goes to hill,
seems reluctant but does it anyway, he gets angry.
The synoptic parallel of Matthew,
he's happy to hill them.
He's not angry.
The list goes on and on
and those may not be examples that Dr. James Table brings up
but I figure just to mention them,
how hard do you want to work to solve all these problems
and to fix it?
I mean, it's like we can go to the Quran, right?
David would, right my friends, my Christians.
We can go to the Quran, we could do this all day.
The sleepers of Ephesus, the sleepers in the cave,
the legend, the folktale that we find of them sleeping
in this cave makes its way into the Quran.
Dorkanine, the Alexander romance
that we find in the Quran.
Jesus turning, play birds into living birth.
The list can go on and on, right?
You can follow me there.
You can follow me in problems and things like that.
We'll get to the new testament.
Everybody watch me.
I'm gonna do some serious backflips.
Here we go.
And in some cases there may be justified reason
to think it isn't necessarily contradicting
or isn't necessarily those conclusions
but notice they wanna die on every example,
every hill that you bring up.
And it's like at some point
you have to imagine special pleadings taking place.
Thank you, Pai.
Easy shada.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
I am subject of Yamir.
I am a subject of Yamir.
I don't know what Yamir is
and I hope I'm pronouncing that right.
Forgive me.
Help me out.
Does anybody know what that means?
Scrolling down.
I'm looking for this particularly in the chat.
Oh, Kip Davis was giving some context to the previous thing
about Sodom and Gomorrah.
And I missed it.
It's because I'm in the super chat section.
I'm looking for the Yamir.
I don't see anybody, Yamir is Norse?
I don't know.
Anyway, thank you so much for the super chat.
Back to the transformational coach.
Did I miss a comment by you?
Thank you for the super sticker.
Best way to support you, YouTube of Patreon?
Honestly, I think Patreon takes a little less, I think,
than YouTube does.
I also have options like one time donations
for people who want that kind of route or whatever.
But if you want to become part of the family
and stay with the symbol and stuff next to you,
you can do that on YouTube for when I go live
or the Patreon, which I'm planning on doing
private live zooms with Patreon.
So it just depends on the option.
I'll be doing that Zoom, by the way,
with Patreon and members of YouTube.
So don't worry, we're gonna make sure both sides are covered.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
Patrick is back again.
If I write, why does your God favor people
for burning children alive?
Judges 11, YouTube will delete the comment, question, try it.
Okay, so this may be my personal YouTube channel's
comment section.
I get people all the time who are not fans
of what I did in the video commenting.
You deleted my comment.
Your channel doesn't allow comments like this.
Believe it or not, I rarely have to delete any comments.
I really, the reason I keep my comments clean
and you have an option in the settings on YouTube
is to say inappropriate comments automatically,
just have them automatically removed.
YouTube deems what comments are appropriate or not.
So oftentimes that happens.
And keep in mind that when when rhetoric like that
comes up, rhetoric comes up like that.
Oftentimes it's an attack at me or the scholar.
And I've had people who have interviewed
who have been extremely disrespected
and they're derogatory.
And if you allow that ugliness to just run rampant,
I think, I don't think advertisers,
I don't think YouTube likes that kind of stuff.
So I prefer to just have a much more kosher comment section.
At the same time, very rarely have I ever deleted it.
But I can understand why they might be triggered
by some of the language in that Jetha story
with sacrificing his only daughter, only child.
And yeah, so I imagine it tiptoes into the lines
of people who are speaking very negatively or bad online.
And YouTube probably does that.
I just think it's interesting.
I figure I'd comment about that
cause you're gonna see people were like,
my comment doesn't come through.
How come you don't allow it?
And then someone's like, I'm reading your comment right now.
What are you talking about?
And they like have a conspiracy in their head
that I am deleting their comments.
YouTube's deleting your comment.
I don't know what you said,
but that's probably not in your case.
Cause I imagine we agree that Jetha's daughter
is a burn offering to Yahweh and it doesn't look good.
You know what I mean?
Anyway, thanks Patrick for that super chat.
And Patrick's back again.
It says, not you Derek, other YouTube channels.
Okay.
Yeah, I'm just, I'm telling you this channel,
it also happens where people's stuff gets deleted.
I'm caught up on super chats now.
So I'm in your, I'm in your, okay.
We got another one here.
Let me take the super chat here.
Clay, thank you for the super chat.
How did you ever consider the idea
that historical Jesus didn't exist?
When Paul literally met and knew the apostle Peter,
do you think Peter was fake?
Okay. So there's a few things here in the super chat.
When you asked, how did you ever consider the idea
that historical Jesus didn't exist?
In my mind, to give you my observations in a nutshell,
I once believed Jesus wasn't just a historical man,
but he was God in the flesh.
In my deconversion story, in my deconverting,
my history of deconverting,
I started to observe categories, genres
that are clearly mythic in other figures.
And a lot of these elements look very similar
to what we see and identify with Jesus in the gospels.
I started seeing so much of it in the gospels
that I started going, whoa,
and I gravitated toward scholars and thinkers
who were saying, look at all of this mythology,
this guy doesn't even probably exist, probably.
And it's tempting.
So the way they would have answered the second part of that,
did you think Peter was fake
and that Paul met the apostle Peter?
They, the mythicist would say,
look, Paul, Peter, all of these guys had a heavenly Jesus
who at the time of the writing of Paul
is not a historical man on earth.
He is in heaven talking to Paul.
Paul's having some type of experience
that he's saying he's getting revelation from the Christ,
who is this already deified figure.
And then the argument of the mythicist
is that he's always been heavenly.
He's always been an outer space, so to speak.
Never was an earthly person.
That's the most common kind of Richard Carrier,
Bob Price position of mythicism.
And there may be other mythicists who take
that the narratives of a historical guy
in the past was invented.
I don't know, but that was tempting.
And it's very easy to see why one might draw that conclusion,
especially when you don't have more concrete data
to nail this guy down in history like we'd like.
So it's easy to see why that's a tempting conclusion
for a skeptic and for someone who sees all this mythology
about this guy who most likely did not do
all these things attributed to him.
Then I started to backpedal a little thinking,
okay, hold on, how common was it to take historical figures
and add mythology about them?
And I started seeing that this has happened
with several contemporaneous figures to Jesus.
And I would even put Apollonius of Tyanna
in that category of a historical figure
who's completely practically mythologized.
And of course is written by Phyllis Stratus
a few centuries later, but he references sources
that were much earlier.
And this was a guy that was contemporaneous
in the first century around the time that Jesus existed.
But he's like a Roman philosopher type guru cult leader
similar to how you have Jesus.
So that is how my thinking went.
So it's easy to go from this to all that,
especially when you start getting overwhelmed
with how much mythology, and when I say mythology,
theology can fit into mythology is what I'm saying.
Sacrifices for sins and stuff like that,
you're like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, what?
Like this is in that kind of weird theological vein
of imaginary stuff in my view.
And that kind of takes you through,
I would say, why that temptation happened
and why I still don't rule it out,
but I'm not persuaded by it
as the most likely conclusion now, even though it could be.
Certainty is blasphemy of the holy myth vision.
We shouldn't be absolutely certain
on some of these conclusions, but one might go,
you're not certain Jesus didn't rise from the dead, are you?
I have very good reasons to think the same way
I don't think that the various other stories
and figures didn't, that Jesus didn't as well.
But why would you draw that conclusion?
I don't know.
How common is it that people rise from the dead?
Do we see this?
Is this normal?
No, no, no, but you're not getting the revelation
and the cumulative case, we can go down that rabbit trail
endlessly.
Holy fricking smokes, did I just get bombarded
by a bunch of super chats?
I did.
I thought that.
Okay, all right, let me try to be a little more succinct.
Teresa W, thank you for the super chat.
The cash is for Ryan.
Thank you, thank you.
I've learned so much from your show.
Thank you so much.
Let me give you a little secret here, Teresa.
All of the cash goes to Ryan.
So the queen of myth vision.
She's happy wife, happy life.
And thank you so much for the super chat.
I'll tell her, if she isn't watching this right now,
doing other things, I'll tell her
that you super chatted specifically for her.
Samuel Penrod, thank you for this super chat here.
This channel has helped me in my deconstruction process.
Thanks for all your work.
Thank you, Samuel.
I appreciate the love and support.
I'm glad that it's helped.
And I hope that it continues to help you
as I'm on a journey myself
in trying to understand these ancient stories
from a scholarly point of view.
All right, Google sucks is super chatting next.
And I need to see if there's a comment under Google sucks.
Scrolling up.
Okay, Google sucks, super chatted.
Don't see scrolling up a little.
Thank you, I don't see one.
I just want to make sure I didn't leave you hanging.
And you did it twice.
Thank you so much for that.
M-Doug, super sticker.
Thank you, M-Doug, for the super sticker here.
Now I got to find your super sticker.
Make sure you didn't comment.
And if you did, I got to read it.
Huh, nothing, just showing love.
Oh, thank you.
Appreciate that support.
Built live.
Forgive me if I butchered your name.
Thank you for the super chat
and for being a member of MythVision.
Hello, I'm watching from Norway.
Do you plan to do another Astro Theology video?
Old and New Testament.
I love that stuff.
I'm sure it's going to come up.
I'm sure we're going to cover it.
And maybe at some point we should focus on
what I think is really Astro Theology in the Bible
somewhere that might be interesting.
I know the Babylonians did this.
And if any of the Hebrews were clearly influenced
by Babylonian thought, mathematics,
mythology, stories, folktales, whatever it is,
there may be some of that
in these later biblical writings.
And so I want to, I've backed off of that
because typically the people who do it
are in that kind of,
they're in a category that I would say is not a scholarly.
I'm trying to be as respectful too
because I don't mean it in a negative way,
but like they're in the more esoteric vein of like,
everything is Astro Theology.
And they go down this rabbit trail of like,
you need the key of our esoteric interpretations
to understand the Bible and their chakras.
And without the interpretation of the seventh day,
which is the seventh chakra,
which is the seven hearts of the soul.
And in that moment, it's like zodiac reading
and all that kind of stuff.
I don't get into that stuff anymore.
I want to be able to try and look at this stuff
with good methodology to understand
what's going on in the text.
And I bet you there is some of this stuff there,
but I just think that those methods,
the people who are the ones who are pioneering
those kinds of conversations
aren't rigorous academic in their approach.
That's my take on it.
So I'd like to do it
from a critical scholarly background
or critical scholarly point of view.
Pai is back.
Dr. Kip, please read true scholars.
He used Hebrew.
Well, thank you, Pai, for that.
I appreciate that.
And Kip does read Hebrew.
Kip does understand that and he knows some Greek.
And I think back to our donkey scenario with Matthew,
there's some interesting observations
that Dr. Kip has looked at
and he's been reading various scholars.
You've made commentaries and comments
about this particular passage.
It's an interesting, weird, nerding out rabbit trail
you can get lost in.
But bringing up Matthew for one moment,
the other day when all this,
let's call it apologist, anti-apologist drama
on the gospel of Matthew
and what's going on with the two donkeys,
I thought it was really interesting
because we wanna know why too.
And some have said, well,
it's because Matthew misread a Hebrew parallelism.
There have been scholars who've said this.
It's not off the table,
but what's the most likely conclusion?
And I thought, hmm, the live stream
that Michael Jones had with Stephen Boise,
I don't know if I'm properly pronouncing the last name there.
I really like Stephen, I'm friends with Michael too,
and I enjoy learning and hearing this pushback.
I'd love to have dialogue with them on this at some point
and have our differences brought out.
But Boise, Stephen said,
he's open to there have only ever been one donkey.
Now, I'm speaking historically,
which would then mean that Matthew is crafting
a literary narrative, inventing two donkeys.
Now, that is so awesome to hear someone,
I would say is a conservative scholar-like Christian.
I would say he's a scholar in his own right
in terms of Christianity.
And he's willing to admit that much
that maybe Matthew's doing something literary
and it's not actual history.
I think Mike Lacona got in trouble for stuff like this
in addressing the what we call zombie apocalypse
at the end of Matthew.
I reached out to Stephen, my buddy Stephen Nelson,
who's very sharp when it comes to Greek
and pulling up sources.
And I said, Stephen, will you do me a favor?
And will you look and see if it's only in the gospel
of Matthew that when Jesus appears before Pontius Pilate
and there's the Barabbas and Jesus,
if it's the gospel of Matthew that has Jesus Barabbas,
and in the earliest sources of the gospel of Matthew we have,
only in the gospel of Matthew,
do you have a Jesus Barabbas,
which is, I think the Barabbas that comes from Aramaic,
if Jesus could too,
but it's the idea of son of the father, Jesus Barabbas,
and then Jesus, whom they call the Christ,
who's also son of the father.
Matthew has two donkeys, two demoniacs
when Mark only has one.
And then you have two Jesuses go to Mark.
His name's not Jesus Barabbas, it's Barabbas.
And why?
Well, if we opened the commentary of Matthew,
speaking of Davies and Allison,
they give an excellent response that Matthew's trying to gear
further away from the revolution
that took place with the Jews and Rome.
And Barabbas literally says in Mark that he is in there,
he's guilty of insurrection.
Well, they don't want Jesus possibly being grouped
with an insurrectionist.
Like, so Matthew wants to kind of paint a different way
away from what Mark is saying,
and then he doubles up the Jesuses,
giving him the name Jesus Barabbas.
It's more literary is the point.
So I thought that was fascinating,
and I'm hoping Allison has similar observations
pertaining to the doubles
that we find all throughout Matthew,
which means how confident should you be reading Matthew
about what is literally, historically,
what is the case when he is crafting narrative?
Anyway, did my little rabbit trail want to save the best,
I guess, for going into that and with Allison
and James Tabor in Day After Tomorrow?
Who knows?
We'll see what they all have to say.
Gentle Esther, thank you for the super chat.
I hope I said your name properly.
Love your channel.
Always a great listen, no question.
Just enjoying the live.
Thank you so much.
I appreciate the love and the super chat.
Doc Pluromonot, nothing piety, just hiding.
Thanks, Doc.
I really appreciate the love and support,
and always being here in the chat
with those very, very complex questions,
making me have to think.
I appreciate it.
Google sucks says,
look at the philosophy of redemption by Philip Mainlander.
He takes Christ's teaching as atheist
and creation as a self-decide, now in English,
the philosophy of redemption.
Let me look this up.
I imagine there's more doubles than Matthew, by the way.
The philosophy of redemption, it's 20 bucks on paperback.
An ambitious philosophical vision.
He claimed not only to confirm the teachings
of Buddhism and Christianity,
but also to reconcile religion with science
and put atheism on a scientific foundation.
All this he integrates with the cosmology
that reads the universe as the emanation
of a primordial event,
which he construes as God's self-destruction.
The universe is therefore the disintegrating relic
of a divinity, a discordant unity of individual beings,
egoistic, egoistic manifestations of a will to death,
all striving for absolute annihilation.
Mainlander's bleak, but rapturous prognosis
is here, published in English for the first time.
That's an interesting philosophy.
It sounds kind of like the, in a way, well, not,
it's totally different than that.
I was gonna say, there's a idealism philosopher
that I've interviewed before,
but the universe is just this, a God died,
and we're like the remnants of that deity.
It sounds like that's interesting.
Sounds more effective, but like a fun way
of trying to look at the world around you.
I feel like that's maybe something to check out.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
Kristen Hood, thank you so much for the love.
Great to see you here.
She's an OG.
She's been here since day one.
Thanks for encouraging great discussions
and always promoting critical thinking.
May MythVision continue to challenge us for years to come.
Thank you so much.
Appreciate the love, Kristen.
And yes, I want to keep the critical thinking
and the conversations and the debates and all that
and hearing these other brilliant minds
bring different takes to the table.
And that's the goal, right?
Let's challenge ourselves.
Love you, thank you for the love.
John Hodge, hey dude, what are your thoughts
on having more Eastern scholarship on?
Like Vedic religions, is it Taoism?
Taoism, Buddhism, et cetera?
Absolutely, I wanna do that.
I just need critical scholarship in that vein
and getting connected to those scholars
and start easing our way
into doing those kind of discussions.
And I feel like a good way is to potentially find a bridge
between where I'm at now into those discussions,
those topics.
To give you an example,
some of the proto-Indo-European myths
that we find in Hinduism in the Sanskrit text,
look like you can go way back
and also see some bridge to Mesopotamian mythology
that there's some connection there
that goes way, way back.
I haven't read this work myself.
I saw a lecture only for a few moments
where the guy was making this brief connection.
He was a scholar.
I'd like to do that kind of stuff.
Cause you know, I like to compare the myths
and see where they connect and all that.
But yeah, at some point that's bound to happen,
especially as we learn more
and expand our connections with other academics
in different fields.
Callan Redu, thank you for being a member.
And for super, what is this?
Super chat.
I'm the devil, Callan says.
Well, good for you, Callan.
Thanks for the love.
Appreciate you showing up in the chat.
Victor Engelman, two donkeys are from Zechariah 9.9.
Matthew 21.5 is almost a verbatim quote of that.
And that's what Kip's trying to point out.
But I think it's actually a Hebrew parallelism
of a single donkey that is in the Zechariah 9.9 thing.
But look, I want to save all the juicy stuff here
because this is exactly how Mark interpreted it
as a single donkey.
Luke and John understood it as a single donkey.
It's only Matthew that doubles it up.
Is that from a misunderstanding or is that purposeful?
And if it is purposeful,
let's draw out all the reasons he would purposely create two.
I can already see how apologist will go,
there was actually two donkeys in all of the accounts,
but they only mentioned one in Mark, Luke and John.
To get away from Matthew not having the historical truth,
they just have to say,
well, there really were two donkeys the whole time.
Mark just wanted to mention one.
Luke just wanted to mention one.
John just wanted to mention one.
I could see the gymnastics,
instead of saying Matthew's inventive,
creating and crafting an interesting dual donkey scenario,
dual demonic scenario,
dual Jesus is at his trial scenario, the list can go on.
I think that, how do you do that?
You just keep saying, well,
there was really two demoniacs in Mark,
you only mentioned one.
You get where I'm going with this.
Margaret DeVeldin, good to see you Margaret.
Thank you so much for being here, part of the family.
Gotta go, just love,
just love for what you keep doing, cheers there.
Well, thank you Margaret, appreciate the love.
I really appreciate everybody showing up,
throwing some supers at us and hanging out with me.
I think it's time now that I've caught up on the super chats
to just mention what we've got coming up.
I've got a course that I plan on doing on the apostle Paul
with Dr. James D. Tabor.
You're going to want to stay tuned.
We have some courses that are coming out with Dr. Joshua Bowen.
One is on slavery in the Bible,
and another one is going to be on mythology
that influenced the Bible, specifically Genesis,
and he'll probably go into other examples as well there.
Two courses coming out with Egyptologist Karakuni
on Genesis creation mythology in ancient Egypt,
ancient Egypt, and resurrection mythology in ancient Egypt.
What did they believe about resurrection?
And I will just say it's super sexual,
extremely sexual.
I mean, just stay tuned.
I'll let her teach the course,
but it just blows my mind how there was no shame at all
and just getting sexual in their creation,
in their death and resurrection,
in their entire mythology.
It's awesome to actually learn that stuff
and realize, wow, Egypt ruled Canaan,
Ugarit has the same thing,
Mesopotamia has the same thing in the sense
that there's lots of sexual stuff in the mythology.
You get to the Bible with that ancient Near Eastern deity.
The Bible is insulated from that.
How dare you try to point out any possible fossils
of sexual stuff with God?
How dare you?
You should never do that.
Don't you know our God would never,
never partake in those pagan ancient Near Eastern images
that we find in the world in which this arose.
Don't you know there was a force field in this society?
They had zero influence from the rest of the known world.
You hateful people who just wanna poke holes in the Bible.
What are you doing?
What's wrong with you?
Don't you know in your heart of hearts that ours is true?
Okay, being funny.
Just going somewhere with that, I think.
Going somewhere and nowhere at the same time.
Anyway, I love everybody here.
Let's see what we got.
Derek had to go with a budget Egyptologists
like Karakuni because a big shot like that.
Oh God, it's Kip.
You better stop being a comedian here, dude.
You better stop being a comedian.
Whoa.
Your trip, man.
I don't even wanna get involved
in all of that nonsense that keeps happening.
Yeah.
Anywho, Kip, thanks for the distraction, man.
Matthew K. in the hizzy.
Walter, seed.
Oh, there's so much seed spilling going on in the Bible.
It's nevermind.
It's not that.
Isn't this woke?
I guess, I'm not asleep, I can tell you that.
So don't stop being a comedian, Nathaniel said.
You know, you're sick.
Yes, I am.
Yes, I am.
Absolutely, it's hyperbole.
Duh.
Of course, it's hyperbole.
It's all hyperbole.
Yeah, that gets really, really transmitted into the Bible,
but not so much with the others.
I appreciate everybody here.
Is there any final must get it off your chest?
You have to ask, we have to, you know, before I go.
Anybody?
When the, I think you mean to say truth is found to be lies,
myth-vision opens the eyes.
Thank you so much.
I like the little jingle there.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Derek, Matthew used Hebrew.
Okay, so that, is that what you're actually saying?
I'm trying to, I didn't know if these are sarcastic
super chats or you're sincere in thinking that Matthew
used Hebrew in these particular passages.
I don't think that's the most plausible
personally, but I'm no linguist at all.
I'm just listening to the arguments
from the different scholars.
I think the Septuagint, when it's verbatim to a certain
point, I understand how Stephen will bring in that he thinks
he just switches over to Hebrew at that time.
I'm going to let Kip, because we've talked about this
off record, off air, I'm going to let Kip bring up
what his observations have been, how we have sources
where there's clearly different Greek readings
of the Septuagint that are not the Septuagint
we have today in Dead Sea Scroll material.
This might help educate or make people realize
that we do not have all the Greek versions of the Bible
that they did have.
What is more likely?
Oh, and I need to add some little detail here.
In those observations of that Greek text,
you can see how the Greek is trying to look
and model itself more after the Masoretic
or the Hebrew text.
So you have Greek versions that are trying to accommodate
to the Hebrew version.
And this, we have remnants of it,
not from that particular Zechariah 9-9,
but once you see that, what's more likely?
Just, okay, we got the Greek today.
All right, I'm going to go here.
Oh, stop, stop, stop.
Let me pull up my Hebrew now.
Okay, now we're going to put this little last sentence
from the Hebrew.
Oh, hold on.
All right, hold on.
We got to fulfill this one over here, Bobby.
Oh, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on.
I don't like that one.
I'm going to take it from the Greek over here on that one.
Actually, let's go back to the Hebrew on this one.
Is there an Aramaic version somewhere?
Nope, nope, nope.
Let's go back to the Hebrew.
Nope, oh, actually, let's go back.
Okay, that's not what I think's going on there.
It's written in Greek.
I understand church father stuff,
talk about papias.
There's some Aramaic or possibly Aramaic version
of some stangs gospel that may exist.
That's Matthew somehow.
And then you got to go out of the way to say,
well, how do we get to this Greek version
from this saying over here, papias,
assuming there's an Aramaic version floating around
somewhere, is Matthew incorporating stangs
from that Aramaic version and crafting a narrative?
Maybe, maybe.
We know there's some hints at Aramaic stuff
going on in these gospels,
but as far as like this was all originally,
that's a whole different pan of worms.
Caleb, thank you for the super chat,
or not super chat, I'm so used to getting them.
Just comment.
Derek, what caused or influenced you
to have a naturalist view?
I think it's just, I've always thought with magical thinking
and when I started to observe these gods,
these religions looking very manmade
with similar patterns that humans have constructed
and rewriting and recreating
and renegotiating their observations,
the deities evolve with the humans
that are clearly also evolving
in their thinking about the world around them.
And usually staunch believers think
it's the other way around.
They think it's divine revelation
that God's slowly revealing himself
so humanity progressively is getting better.
I tend to think humans are perceiving their gods.
Like, is it Xenophans?
The ancient Greek philosopher who said
if horses could draw images of their gods,
they'd look like gods.
And if, I don't know, I'm throwing it out there,
dogs could draw images of their gods,
they'd look like dogs.
The gods usually are in the image of the worshipers.
And that's such a human thing.
And I think that makes the most sense.
And so it led me to start going,
okay, I never believed in evolution as a Christian.
Now I factor in these observations
and how much death it took to get how many mutations
and how much death it took to get where we are now.
I started going, man,
the God idea for me is really hard to swallow,
especially when all of them are in these ancient texts.
And it made me start to think just maybe
there is another way of explaining and observing
the world around me without incorporating a deity.
And that is when I started to listen to people
who said, you don't need to have to have a God
to explain these things.
And I started going down a more naturalist route
in considering that maybe, maybe,
there is no magic happening in that sense.
And so, of course, many theists
who would criticize my conclusions,
well, where did life come from?
We have not observed the origins of life
from abiogenesis and such and things like that.
So you can go and listen to scientists in the field there
that explain, we don't know exactly how this happened,
but good reason, think it did.
I give the analogy in one way of saying,
if I am in Washington state
in the western side of the United States,
and I have a friend in Egypt and I spoke to him on the phone
and said, hey man, everything good, I'm here in Washington.
And in one hour, I'm on his couch, but I'm dead.
He can't question me.
And he goes, how did Derek get on my couch within one hour?
And he was in Washington state,
which is thousands and thousands of miles,
probably six, seven, 8,000 miles away.
How did he get here so quickly?
Did he fly on a jet?
Possibly, one hour seems a little bit too good to be true.
Let's just say five hours, whatever.
Jet, possibly, regular car.
Well, he had to cross over sea, that's not possible.
How did he get here?
Ah, he instantly teleported.
That'd be the least likely position you might take.
You'd want to literally rule out every other possibility,
which is more likely than me teleporting to your couch.
And so I tend to take those kind of approaches
to the world around me now, rather than abracadabra.
And so that is why I ended up starting to think
this makes more sense when we look at the world that way.
Could I be wrong?
Sure.
On Robertson says, you need to grab AP
and go after David Wood, have the conversation
in the morning and call the thread, morning wood.
I love the humor.
I do want to have a conversation with David Wood.
And I don't mind, I'd be cool to have AP there too,
because I know that AP is not a Christian,
but yeah, I don't mind having conversations
with people I disagree with.
And I'm sure we could find common ground
on criticizing Islam in many ways.
At the same time, I'm trying to bring it to
ancient Judaism, Christianity.
And of course, I would apply the same thing
if there was a strong, powerful movement
of worshipers of Dionysus or Hercules or whoever else
that were impacting us in such a psychological,
such a political, such a real life sense,
then yeah, I'd have something to bring to the table.
And guess what?
Early Christians did just that
when they were critiquing the other gods
of those who worshiped the pagan Pantheon in Rome
or in Greece or whatever it was,
they did exactly that.
They were criticizing them.
I went on and on about that.
Scrolling down, scrolling down.
There was a movement in the late Second Temple period
among Greek versions to get closer to the Hebrew text.
Bingo.
Of course, you're gonna end up showing this, I'm sure,
when we have that conversation, but it's important.
Yes, the ancient people that were engaging with Matthew
was Bobby and Bill.
They were from Southern Judah.
That's right, that's right.
They were down there in the South, boy.
I'm gonna tell you what.
Let's see.
I'm scrolling up.
Note, one carry, one does not have to have a label
in fact, I think it might be a smarter move
when you're engaging online, like Dan McClellan,
he's not out here saying, this is my ontology
or this is my position, which I think is a very smart move
because then people can take your argument
without trying to pigeonhole you, poison the well already.
If you're that, you're already wrong.
If you're a naturalist, everything you think you know is wrong.
If you're this, everything you already think is wrong
instead of dealing with arguments for argument's sake,
the actual case in front of you, and that's a wise move.
It's also wise because it doesn't segregate you
from a tribe or particular community.
Some, now in some cases, Dan dies on certain hills
that I think are important, social issues and such.
And I appreciate him for that.
Standing up for women, standing up for equal rights
and stuff that's there.
I wanna, excuse me, I wanna use him as an example there
to point out that maybe I'd be more successful
if I wasn't an atheist, but it doesn't bother me,
even if atheism weren't the case.
I'm not like, if there is a deity, I'm not bothered by it.
I've kind of had my peace with the idea
that if there was something in it,
and I ended up dying and going before it,
I very much doubt that it is what I've read
that is so man-made, I'm not persuaded at all
that that's the case.
So I think it would be indifferent,
almost deistic or something to that effect at best.
Or I just don't find it personal in that respect.
I get why the temptation's there,
but I think there's some psychology involved
in reflecting one's own thoughts and such
and assuming agency is there when it's not,
that's all natural.
That comes as part of evolution to survive.
I don't think that's real necessarily.
Little brush on the bush over there.
Is that a lion to come eat me or is it just wind?
Well, this agency observation on clouds, volcanoes,
earthquakes, they thought these were gods.
We now can explain in a natural sense what they are,
therefore, doing a good job falsifying
that the deities are actively doing these things.
There's no reason to then assert that they are,
but the God becomes unfalsifiable, invisible,
outside space and time, but let's go on and on.
Anyway, I rabbit-rolled off that to say,
no, you don't have to have a label.
I just speak my mind and tell you where I'm at,
and I am always subject to change as I learn more
and where I go.
If I ended up down the road thinking
that theism made the most sense,
guess who will become a frickin' theist?
Whether many viewers like it or not, me.
I don't care.
That's not the point.
I could tell you what I'm definitely convinced
is not the case, the God of the Bible.
I'm pretty persuaded, and unless that God
did some radical changing things on biblical proportions,
like the stories in the Bible emphasize
what a miracle looks like,
and those kind of things happened to me,
well, why would you, if you were God,
why would you have these texts written
with unbelievable, literally stories,
extravagant miracles and such,
and then when someone is not a believer,
not do those things to overcome their doubt.
You're willing to do it with Thomas.
You're not willing to do it with them,
and Thomas looks like a literary motif.
He's winking at you saying,
blessed are those who don't see yet still believe.
Come break this hard heart,
as they would probably perceive me,
this cold heart, this hardened heart.
Come break it and prove yourself, and it's over.
I am yours, you know what I mean?
I'm not convinced that's gonna happen.
I think these are books with stories,
but if it happened, it happened,
and I don't think I could persuade anyone else
based on my experience,
but I could promise you if it happened to me,
I'd be the nutcase shouting it from the rooftops,
whether or not you believed it or not.
So you might go, well, your faculties are felling you, Derrick,
but of course, I would factor in, am I hallucinating?
Could this be the case?
The list can go on.
Subjective experiences are powerful.
So I'd love to have a way to know that it's not hallucination.
Anyway, Greg Roycey, Royce, forgive me
if I butchered your last name there.
I posted a Dr. Kip vid to my debate group.
One response, there's no way that Satan looking dude
is a qualified scholar.
Yeah, you know what?
I used to think of Aaron Raugh,
and I'm like, look at this evil, hateful man.
When I was a Christian years ago,
and I came across a video of him debating
one of these Christians, this evil person, he's just,
and of course, my mind has changed after meeting Aaron.
He's like a giant teddy bear, but I knew when I met Kip,
that he was like a solid heavy metal guy.
I knew that out the gate, the shirty war, the goatee,
the beard, the rock in the hat,
like the dude was rock and roll, I could tell, heavy metal.
So yeah, I could see, there's no way
that Satan looking dude is a qualified scholar.
Ah, we have such perceptions
in these kind of conservative Christian circles.
Daniel, is it Kaser, Kaiser, forgive me?
Anyone talked about the donkey and Matthew
being intentional satire, like the genealogy.
I think it's kind of an upside down atcomium.
This is from a different pod,
parody and subversion in Matthew's gospel by Bert Newton.
That's interesting.
It could be, no matter what, it looks literary.
I'm editing, I do editing for Bart Ehrman's courses
and his podcast on YouTube and stuff.
So me and the queen, Brian, my wife, edit for Bart,
and his course coming up on Matthew,
I was editing it in light of all of this online
back and forth to the apologist,
and he said something interesting while I was editing it.
He said, look at the star that's hovering over the house.
How does a star hover over a house?
We know what stars are, and you have the star
right above the house of where Jesus is at.
You almost can't visualize what it really is.
And so it sounds more like a story.
It's made up, it's not what actually happened.
And if this is what's going on in the birth narrative
in Matthew, why can't this be happening here
with the donkeys, the demoniacs,
the Pontius Pilate scene or wherever you wanna go,
why can't that be the case in Matthew's gospel?
I don't get it, but I definitely need to check out
this parody and subversion in Matthew's gospel.
And that's by who?
Because it didn't pop up, Bert Newton.
Okay, let me see this up.
That's on Buzzsprout?
Is that, that's on a podcast?
Is there a, okay, Audible.
It's on Audible?
Interesting, so it's on Audible, even better,
because I've been needing to use some of my credits.
So I will download that when I get off of the stream.
Thank you for the notice there.
I'm interested in diving deeper.
Thank you.
Oh, so PI, PI, why are you all attacking me
because I am Christian?
Again, Christian persecution all over.
I knew it.
God is my shepherd, I am not afraid.
Okay.
Interesting.
Let me scroll down here.
Okay, everybody, I think I'm gonna go eat.
I think it's time.
I appreciate everybody in the chat.
It's amazing how Bart and Daniel Wallace
will look at the exact same data
and conclude different things.
Yeah, that happens a lot.
That happens a lot.
Really appreciate it.
Angelo, dude.
Yeah, I mean, it's like, it's like, you can't,
you just gotta come and proselytize.
Like, it's like a repeat thing that always happens.
You know what I mean?
Come on, man.
Like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Derek, what is it that made you stop believing
in the resurrection?
I think the first step was me recognizing
how many other claims there are
for gods and cults of their heroes and such.
Then when you realize that, hold on,
he's not the only, he's not the only claim in town.
And in fact, when you start realizing contemporaneous,
that there are many other figures
that have similar types of myths and motifs.
Why this one is true and those aren't,
I can't see why I would then make this one true
and not recognize the others also in the similar category.
I guess you start letting go of confidence
and certainty on this one.
And then you start realizing like,
why am I special pleading for this one?
Because it was a cult that was successful.
Like, and then, you know, that's typically the approach.
They're willing to die, these kinds of things.
So it's martyrological, which Jews were willing to die
for their beliefs and faith and such.
And that was all the way up to the Jewish temple,
Bar Kokba, the list goes on, Muslims are willing to die.
Their religion became popular.
Christians say, look how false this is.
It's so obvious, David Wood talks about
the most obvious false prophet in the world,
David Wood would say, is Muhammad.
Well, look at how many Muslims there are in the world
who believe this.
The list goes on.
That's not an argument that's convincing or persuasive.
And it just fits the zeitgeist of all the heroes
in Jewish, Roman and Greek myth
and the legendary figures of humans who were mythologized.
He just goes right there in the midst of it.
It's like someone today, in many ways,
writing a comic book figure that fits
into this fictional trope of other comic book figures.
And then someone going, damn it, you need to believe
that this guy flew with a cape on at night,
flying out of a phone booth, who did this, who did that.
He has anti-gravitational skills.
The blind people saw on the death, and I'm going,
I don't think Apollonius of Tyana,
Asclepius, Heracles, Isis, Dionysus,
the list goes on and on and on in all these figures
or Jewish heroes and figures.
Like, why did I do that with this kind of particular thing?
And I know, don't take me literal in every single situation,
these authors knew how to have verisimilitude to reality.
They weren't just writing completely fiction, we might see.
But if you look at the comic books we have,
some of them try to place real places,
people, things and such in their fiction narratives.
So I'm trying to make a point,
it just becomes a little less believable
once you learn a little bit more
about all the other figures
and how seriously they were taken by their cults.
It's like, when we special plead this one,
we lack all empathy and seriousness
of observing how they viewed their gods
and their heroes and their figures.
Because ours is true and this one's right.
I started to let go of that and realizing,
oh my gosh, this is something,
this is human phenomena, myths are a dime a dozen
and Jesus is fitting into these categories
and I cannot unsee it.
So to convince me, it ain't gonna work through text,
it ain't gonna work through this literature,
there needs to be divine intervention.
I've said that over and over, but that's why John.
Good question, thanks for asking
as I'm about to go eat lunch and stuff.
Oh, okay, sorry Pie, I'm thinking,
what is going on here?
I almost said, you need to get that book
by Candida Moss, Myth of Persecution.
Where is that book?
It's guaranteed back here, I love that book.
Oh, let me grab it.
All right, Myth of Persecution,
how early Christians invented a story
of martyrdom, Candida Moss.
And I hope I was saying her name right,
Canada, Candida, Candida.
I like to emphasize the Deda,
but I don't know if that's proper
and I'm gonna be interviewing her soon on her latest book.
I already spoke to her and looking forward
to that conversation, but I was thinking,
she I think identifies as a Christian
and points out the persecution complex of Christians.
It's like, for example, if I poke at Otangelo
because he came in here proselytizing
right out the gate about his God and his belief
and he just has to come in here to preach.
And I poke at it like, come on man, why are you, why?
It looks disturbing.
Like you're like a broken record
that has to repeat itself and can't just be normal.
Like you gotta keep, shout a turn.
Jesus has died for your sins, that kind of thing.
It's like, man, chill.
Like, you know we're not believers,
but you can't stop doing it.
And then he goes, see, I'm persecuted.
It's even true, we'd be persecuted for his name's sake.
And it's like, you're self-fulfilling your own stuff.
Kind of like, it talks about you were never one of us
if you left.
Well, there's something similar to that in the Quran too.
And anyway, I'll rabbit your off that,
but thank you so much for the super chat.
Let me keep rolling here.
You definitely trolled me.
Thank you, spring, appreciate that.
Okay, so the God talk, here we are again, right?
I wonder if that's a tangelo
because he doesn't know how to not bring up the shroud,
but is empirical evidence of the resurrection,
if you have evidence that it is a forgery,
you can gain one million US dollars, I imagine.
Check David Rulfi, or Rulf, I don't know how to pronounce that.
If you can prove it's a forgery,
that's, I did a video on the shroud of turn.
Have you guys ever seen that video?
Anyone in the chat, if you've seen my shroud of turn video
that I did, type one, I'm interested.
I am hangry, Carly, good observation.
I'm hungry.
I know, right?
But Walter's seeing it too.
Walter's like, Derek, go eat now!
Hold on.
Hold on, one, so some of you have, some of you haven't.
You really should go see that.
I think the God talk might,
there's probably no help for convincing.
No matter what history says about these being forged
and invented and created during the medieval period,
they have real depth and purpose to the people,
but that they're being crafted.
There are a diamond dozen,
and that the one we have,
of course, they don't accept the carbon dating.
They don't accept this,
it's just apologetics to defend their beliefs.
So yeah, anyway.
All right, oh, we got a big super here.
Did I, okay.
Micah Parker, as much time as I spend engaging in pro
and anti-arguments and good faith as a Christian,
what actually convinced me to become an atheist
was going to a secular concert
and realizing the Holy Spirit was serotonin.
That's a good one.
That's a good one.
Micah, I'll tell you, I had a conversation
with a Christian who brought up the experience
of the Holy Spirit,
the experience of the Holy Ghost to me
and with worship and all that.
And I remember that feeling of worship
and the music and a hitches ride and all that.
I get the same kick from love songs,
thinking about my wife, my family, my children,
my just, you know, great music that hits.
And when it hits, I'm like, wow.
This is just like I felt when I was in church,
just like I felt when I had the presence of God.
It was like the same hit.
And I'm like, okay, hold on.
But this is in a completely different setting,
irrelevant to that.
And that's exactly what I experienced as well.
That's not what made me an atheist
or go down the path of being a non-believer in Christianity.
But it is a good observation in hindsight to go,
whoa, that's very similar to this.
Interesting.
How do we explain that?
Well, God's in the concert, don't you know?
Anyway, yeah, I don't wanna take anyone's head off today
because I do need to eat.
I just, I don't like to leave anyone hanging
and I'm having fun.
So just looking at this, the Mr. Zeke,
what you believe may not true.
What's true, you may not believe
because truth is stranger than fiction.
What is the distinction of truth and belief, Derek?
It depends on your definitions, right?
Depends on your definitions of truth.
In that context of editing Bart Ehrman's
Gospel of Matthew course,
he literally says he was watching a movie.
Sorry for the sneak peek.
We gotta keep hydrated, I'm getting dehydrated.
His child was watching a fictional movie with him
and said, dad, dad, dad,
is this true?
Bart Ehrman says, yes.
No, dad, because they know how their dad is.
No, dad, dad, dad.
Did this happen?
No, is what Bart said.
Interesting statement by Bart.
Is this true?
Yes, but did this happen?
No.
Okay, depends on your definition,
the Mr. Zeke or Zeke.
I guess if true means what actually happened,
literally, then you don't,
I mean, it depends because when you're dealing with history
it's probabilistic,
but if you can actually prove something empirically,
you don't need belief in that being true.
So it's all about definitions.
What's for lunch?
Kiana, you're killing me.
I think I'm probably gonna eat some chicken.
Sorry, vegans,
but I'm probably some rice and chicken.
Moses Irfan, forgive me,
I was in seminary today
and the topic was inerrancy and infallibility.
I asked about the Exodus narrative,
the teacher could not clearly defend it.
Wow, that's awesome.
You're showing up here in the live stream
talking about being in seminary today.
And it's interesting to notice
that the seminarian educator is trying to defend it,
at least,
but I'm curious to know,
are they actually giving you literature
from critical scholars to read and learn?
Or are they like trying to teach you how to defend
against those who say it never happened?
Well, how's your seminary?
And then I'll go after this one.
I'm looking forward to Moses from the Exodus
answering the question.
Let's see, tell us a little bit more
about your seminary experience right now,
if you don't mind, if you can.
Pizza sound good, good, Derek.
We had pizza last night.
Cesar salad, roast beef.
Waiting for Moses to split the Red Sea right now.
I'm here, my friend.
You might be crafting your comment,
but I'm looking forward to seeing what you say.
Curious, because everybody's probably
got a different educational experience,
different teachers, different teachers,
different teachers, different teachers,
different teachers, different teachers,
different seminaries, but it'll be interesting
in light of Satan's guide, the documentary,
like what your personal right now
and 2024 experience in seminary
is at your particular college.
Okay, reformed seminary.
I was not given any literature to look back to.
I am from Finland.
Oh, interesting.
So there's no like literature they're giving you
where they're making a case
that the Exodus is mostly literary.
Even the ones who think there's a memory there
say it's literary.
It's the ones who want it to have happened,
the way the Bible describes.
That's it.
Thank you from Finland for that super chat
and that comment, very, very interesting.
I love y'all.
I am gonna go eat before I like end up on the stream
like having a fricking seizure or something.
I do need to eat.
Thanks a lot for the support members of the channel,
the super chats, the comments, the love,
the criticisms, the whole nine helps me out,
keeps me going, motivated.
I like that we're not all agreeing
on everything under the sun.
That's what makes it fun and beyond the lookout
because we've got a lot more discussing to do.
Anyway, I'm gonna do my Huckleberry outro.
I think I'm gonna do that.
Where is the outro?
Oh, there it is.
Me with the 10 commitments.
I love you and I hope everyone has a wonderful day.
Don't even if you have the guts to pay for blood!
I'm your Huckleberry.
Just my game.
