Many conservative Christians make these accusations in their inner circle about not listening to
liberal scholars. Oh, you're just a liberal scholar. That's why you draw the conclusions
that you do. Pay attention to these scholars, especially in the Reformed camps. Don't pay
attention to these scholars because they're liberal scholars. Today, I asked Dr. Joshua Bowen,
what about this whole issue? Because me and him both used to say these same things as Christians.
What is a liberal scholar and are they just biased fools who have a propaganda to not want to
accept what the teachings of the Bibles actually saying? Dr. Joshua Bowen, it's getting late,
so I'm tapping my hands. This is really fun. I'm having a blast. I get this all the time
from people that I associated myself with eight or nine years ago as a Reformed Calvinist.
All these liberal scholars, they are purposely distorting their understanding,
they're distorting the Bible in order to disprove it. They're coming in with their bias,
their agendas, and this and this and that. Now, I must admit, Pine Creek sometimes will point out,
like liberal Christians oftentimes will kind of try to be like, it's not that dogmatic,
it's not exclusive. So there's these flag waving, he calls them phony Christians who want to
soften up the message. So it's more of a social gospel and everybody can get along and like this
gospel. And here's the thing, I like that better. Personally, even if the text says something like
Muslims who want to maybe do Jihad and they interpret that to mean actual crazy stuff,
or guys who go, Jihad, it's the struggle within oneself. I'm going with that guy.
Okay, hell yeah. So, but liberal scholars, back to the topic.
Are they just trying to disprove the Bible and God? Is this their agenda? Like,
does everyone have a secret committee? They meet in an Illuminati club and they say,
look, we're going to take this thing down. What's going on?
So the question itself is framed interestingly. And I know that you're asking the way that it's
presented and the way that they present it is in and of itself odd to me. What the hell is a
liberal scholar? Like, that's the thing that comes to my mind. Now, I know that because I said the
same thing that you did, right? I called them liberal scholars too. But what does that mean? Well,
that means that they disagree with me, right? And they're not more conservative than I am in their
beliefs. They're more liberal. So they're liberal scholars. Now, the weird thing that I find
is that how they define it, because what they say, what often fundamentalists will say when they
talk about liberal scholars, is really anybody that doesn't hold to a fundamentalist position of the
text. If they don't hold to strict inerrancy or this sort of literalist interpretation,
they're just liberal scholars. Well, the problem is under that definition, I can point to so many
evangelical scholars that are liberal scholars. So I'll ask the question in these discussions,
who's a liberal scholar, right? Because like Richard Averbeck, for example, has an article in
it's over there, actually, because I just moved his book on Old Testament backgrounds.
He's got an article on Old Testament slavery in the Hebrew Bible. And you would think as an
evangelical Christian, well, he must say that there's no such thing as slavery, right? Or it's
the nicer slavery. No, he doesn't say that. He says what everybody says, that's a biblical scholar.
Yeah, there's debt and shadow slavery. Doi, right? But to so many people online, and so many people
in these circles, Christian apologists and fundamentalists, he's a liberal scholar, which is
bizarre, because he's not an evangelical scholar, anyhow. So if we're defining liberal scholars as
like those that are not, let's go more broadly, those that are not evangelical
Christians, maybe, people like, like Megan is Megan a liberal scholar, because she's a
Biscopalian, she's Anglican, and a scholar, she a liberal scholar. It's just a weird,
it's a weird classification. But if we assume that it's people that just disagree with fundamentalism
or disagree with evangelical positions, if we go broadly, then is, is their motivation,
is their goal to disprove the Bible? Well, I can't read people's minds, or understand, I can't,
I can't guess their intentions sometimes, or know their intentions. But in my experience,
no, it doesn't even matter to them. And that's true of evangelical scholars quite often,
at least in certain contexts. So I remember going through in Hopkins, I took a class with Kyle
MacArthur on Genesis. And with Ted Lewis, I took a class on the book of Ezekiel. And in neither
class, did any apologetic questions come up? You know, when we went through Ezekiel, I don't think
anybody asked about the prophecy of Tyre. Wasn't a question. Did it fail? You know, I don't think it
came up in Genesis, like, none of these questions about like, the date of the earth, or the date of
creation, or, you know, is this really how it was done in history? Like, this stuff doesn't come up.
But a lot of the people that were not only in the class, but on faculty,
they're, they would identify as Christian. And certainly, like, they're not trying to disprove
Christianity. And they are, right? Several of them were Protestants, several were Catholic.
You know, I mean, it's not, they just don't view the text that way. They don't worship the book,
even if they'll say, oh, I don't worship the book, you're straw man in us. No, you know what I'm talking
about. It's an ancient Near Eastern text. That's how they view it. It's an ancient Near Eastern text.
And if God wants to utilize an ancient Near Eastern text to get a general message out,
by all means. But coming to that, like, there's the idea that they're coming and saying, okay,
this is an errant. This is, you know, divinely inspired in the sense that, you know, we must,
we must look at every jot and tittle, right? Or every grammatical form. And we have to do text or
criticism because they have to know what God's word is. Like, they're not doing that. But that
doesn't mean that they're taking some anti-God position. Of course, they're not. They're Christians,
right? And so I think it's a very strange question. It's structured very oddly. And I think that it's,
what it is, is it's people, I think it's fundamentalists that are getting frustrated
with scholars that are good scholars, that are Christian scholars,
that don't take these fundamentalist positions like they take, actually.
And let's use a fundamentalist, for example, Mike Lacona, right? I consider him evangelical to
some degree fundamentalist, even though he's a sharp guy. But he recently was let go of from his
job because he took the Matthew resurrection zombie situation in one of the Gospels, or in
Matthew, where the zombies come into the scene and stuff. He said that that didn't literally
happen. That's allegory. And the college, if I'm not mistaken, he was working at literally had to
let him go. Wow. Because he took a stance against the text in a way that they are evangelical
fundamentalist Christians that know you are tiptoeing. We've all been saying this is literally
true. And you now are going against that. And Delcey Allison, who's another Christian, evangelical,
but not fundamentalist scholar that I interviewed, he's like, yeah, that's not, I don't take that
as literal either, right? So whether it was or wasn't as a literate, because I mean, there's stuff,
weird stuff that happens in the Gospels anyway. So we don't even have to argue. Yeah, you get what
I'm saying, but you can't even try to do that. Anyway, I interrupted you. No, no, no. No. And I
think I just think that this question about what is a liberal scholar, it's just, it's a way out,
right, for people that I think hold very narrow fringe positions, which are very strict fundamentalist
positions. And they don't like it that the evidence as time continues to go by, particularly over the
past 100 years, more and more evidence comes in, more and more archaeological data comes in,
you know, more and more ancient or Eastern data is uncovered. You know, as we've talked about
several times tonight, like when you get into the acerological data, it's like, oh my gosh,
this really opens up what the Hebrew Bible is doing. And that data doesn't match a fundamentalist
interpretation. And so a way of sort of getting around this or dealing with this maybe internally
for them is to say, well, they're just liberal, anti supernaturalists, anti God that are just
trying to disprove the Bible. Well, guess what? We're not. And that's not my goal as an atheist.
That's not my goal to, I don't even know what that means, disprove the Bible. What does that mean?
And how do I disprove the Epic of Gilgamesh? How about just trying to understand the Bible?
Yes. You know, that's the problem, I think, is they want you to understand it their way. Yes. And
if you are understanding it in an ancient or Eastern context, in its original context,
no, they want you to see it through their lens. And this goes into the whole, the dangers, in my
opinion, of the whole reader's view of scholarship, interpreting it that way. You see what I'm saying?
So I think there's dangers in that and then becoming dogmatic in the reader's view.
And this is the thing, like, maybe, and we can end with this part, but like Gilgamesh,
let's take the Epic of Gilgamesh. If you and I looked at the Epic of Gilgamesh and we said,
we're going to start seeing this as a divinely inspired text from God and in Errant.
And Andrew George, who's an eminent Assyriologist, who has worked extensively on the Epic of Gilgamesh,
came along and said, do what? Yeah. Yeah, guys, you can't take that. So what? He raced through a ton of,
well, you don't know, scientifically, maybe there's a garden with jewels on the trees, you know, and
maybe there's punting poles to get across the sea of death. And he would say, oh my God, like,
you need to understand this as an ancient negrist from text. And we said, you're just a liberal
scholar that's trying to disprove the Epic of Gilgamesh. There is a plant that Utnapishtion
has out there somewhere for eternal life. His response, I suspect, would be besides, okay,
I'm not talking to you crazy anymore, would be, what do you mean disprove the Epic of Gilgamesh?
What does that even mean? Now, when nobody's trying to disprove it, we're trying to understand it
in its ancient Near Eastern context. What is this text doing? And I think at the end of the day,
whatever you want to do with the biblical text, if you first understand it in its ancient Near
Eastern setting, you can then ask yourself the question, what makes more sense to me? Does it
make more sense to me to see this as a divinely inspired and unique text in that sense of being
divinely inspired or not? If you do, great. Just don't try to limit people's rights based on your
understanding of it. Good luck. You know, you could do the impersonation if you'd like. Well,
let me tell you something there, Derek, you know, I think that you probably just don't understand
evolution. Okay. And I think if you were to understand that the water rains down on the otter,
so, well, then you'd come to see my point, okay, because dogs never produce non-dogs. I'm going to
help. Well, thank you, Dr. Bowen, Kent Hoben, Bowen. Thank you. Have a nice day.
