Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
People have interpreted these texts in various ways, there's so many denominations, it's
unbelievable, how do we interpret this, and everyone thinks they're right, that's another
thing.
But fundamentalism, like literalist interpretations are, I like to think a problem in many ways.
Now some people might say no, they're taking the text for what it actually says and once
you get an allegory or you start to get into the vagueness of certain terms, you almost
like lose the meaning, like how do you know what something means, but can you tell us
about literal interpretation when this really becomes an issue or rises up in a movement?
Yes, Derek you say, you see it as a problem because some people feel very confined by a
certain set of beliefs that they take literally, but it was seen as a solution to the plurality
of Christians in America.
So the movement we call fundamentalism started, as I understand it, in the beginning of the
20th century, about 1910 to 1920, a group of ministers getting together, Protestants,
saying too many people are saying too many things, different groups, different denominations,
we want to clarify this.
So we will say the Bible is inerrant, it must be taken exactly to mean what it says,
if it says the world was created in seven days, it was created in seven days.
If it says Jesus rose from the dead bodily, he was raised from the dead bodily, you have
to believe it that way.
Now that's a particular American tradition that sort of appeals to American sort of
down to earthness, and to some sense a dismissal of supereducated people that really don't
know what they're talking about.
Let's just get down to the basic facts, as if religion were all about facts.
The harder you press those facts, the more questions you might come up with.
But that's the problem.
So fundamentalism was an attempt to answer that problem and make it simple.
But it's really permeated a great deal of American Christianity in different denominations.
And yet if you look at the Gospels, if you look at the, well, the Gospel of Mark, the
way the author uses symbolic language and non-literal language happens throughout the
whole text.
These people are not literalists.
Dale Allison, my colleague at Princeton Theological Seminary, says, Jesus had a poetic mind and
an imagination shaped by the stories in the Hebrew Bible.
He was not a literalist at all.
He's speaking in metaphors all the time.
That's what parables are.
So reading the Bible that way feels to you and me limited.
And I suggest it is limited because the people who wrote it were not thinking on that literal
level for the most part.
That isn't to say there aren't true things in it, of course.
But to take it as if there were inerrant scriptures, I mean, these scriptures, as you know, they've
been translated from Jesus speaking Aramaic into Greek, into English, King James English,
then into 18th century English, then into 21st century English.
What are you going to take literally?
And as Bart Ehrman and others have shown, which copy of the Bible are you using, the
one that got those words in the margins or the one that took out these words?
There are many versions.
So it becomes a hard question.
Any Bible you look at pretty much at the bottom has different possible translations or notes
about variations in language.
I think the problem comes down to they don't like flexible Christianity.
No, too many views.
And not only is it too many views, like when they don't understand or know something, like
a lot of this, if it is allegory, parable, whatever, and they don't understand, then
there's a lot of polemics that come up against them and say, you don't even know what actually
it said.
So they have to come down as a dogma, like the dogmas that started in the second and
third century.
They started coming down with dogmas and they are coming down with their own versions of
dogmas by saying, no, this is literally true to address those problems of we may not understand
what this actually means.
And no, no, no, God would never write a message where we couldn't understand what it meant.
That's the problem with King James version onlyist is they say, as an example, they'll
say, God has not preserved his true actual word.
Every John and Tittle has the protest and understanding of, you know, inner infallibility of God's
word.
God hasn't preserved it.
We just now are finding these ancient manuscripts that actually predate our better forms of
the text.
And here we had this Byzantine, you know, we have this, this translation for 1500 years
we've used that was supposedly the word of God.
No, you guys' versions are cropped and wrong and they're liberal or whatever.
We have the right one.
God preserved his word through every generation since Jesus, accurate to the T and you see
there's this limit.
They can't wrap their head around how we're just now finding out some stuff and no, no,
no, no, no, the key and they're not flexible.
So I think they come down hard like that on purpose.
It's hard for some people to acknowledge how much we don't know.
How much do we know about the universe?
How much do we know about where we come from?
I mean, how do we know about what happens after we die?
How do we know?
I mean, there are lots of questions.
If you ask an astronomer, if you ask a physicist, if you ask a geologist, if you ask a cosmologist,
those questions, they'll tell you there's so much we don't know about any of that.
How does a frog breathe?
I mean, we know elementary questions, but I'm saying how do, you know, basic questions
about science, anyone will say, we have to admit what we don't know.
And that's why in tradition called Gnostic, it begins with what we cannot know or what
we don't yet know.
I mean, there it says there are things we cannot know.
We can't fully understand a divine being that is transcendent to our level of understanding.
So the first thing we do is confess what we don't know.
The second thing is we talk about our experience that we are related to this divine source.
But that's where it stops.
And so it does take a certain humility to ask questions.
And I value that.
I know you do.
Thank you.
