Is Luke Axe a companion of the Apostle Paul?
In what ways does Luke Axe contradict Paul's letters?
Today I am joined by Paula Fredrickson, thanks to everybody who helped make this trip possible.
We also venture off into some work by Robin Faith Walsh.
There's all sorts of neat stuff in all of these videos.
I want to say thank you to those who've joined our Patreon.
I hope you enjoy this video.
Dr. Paula Fredrickson.
Now we know that the apologists are right about everything, but okay, bad way to start
the video.
On a serious note, there have been Christian apologists who cringe when they see some of
my videos because I have Jennifer Bird, or I'll have Shelley Matthews coming up, or I'll
have Steve Mason talk about how Luke Axe seems to know Josephus' writings from 93 AD.
He's saying that he's convinced by it, right?
Or I'll mention Richard Purvo or any other academic.
They get like, oh no, because Luke Axe was written by the traveling companion of Paul.
And I approach this in different ways of like, how do we date this material?
We say this is early second century material, or at least late first century at best.
And then the other way I kind of want to challenge this idea is that, well, he doesn't even agree
with Paul's letters.
So if he's with Paul and he knows Paul that well, why does him and Paul not agree?
And some of these apologists, I guess, will find ways out of it.
But for the regular people who might be watching who are interested in really seeking the information
from an academic such as yourself, sorry, this is long-winded, does Luke Axe contradict
Paul and can you give us any examples of how we know that?
First of all, people want to think that Luke is a travel companion of Paul because of the
wee passages.
And the reason scholars date Axe to the early second century is because of the word Christian,
which shows up in Luke, which appears in clusters in early second century texts, both in Pliny
and in Tacitus and in Ignatius and in Luke Axe.
If Luke Axe is writing then, he's awfully long-lived if he was a companion of Paul.
And if he was a companion of Paul, he hadn't read Paul's letters because there are some
head-on collisions with the material and say, Galatians and the material in Luke.
Luke has Paul start out in Jerusalem be commissioned by, which this is all fantasy because the
high priest didn't even have authority over the Dead Sea Scroll community and they're
right down the street.
He's deputizing Paul to go all the way to Damascus to crash heads and drag Christians
back to Jerusalem for I don't know what end.
And Paul is on the road to Damascus and he has this experience.
And then he goes immediately back to, as soon as he can back to Jerusalem.
Paul says that he implies that he was in Damascus the whole time.
He resists this movement before he has his transitional experience.
Then he says he goes away to Arabia, which is Roman Arabia, not Saudi Arabia.
He goes east for three years, however long a period that is.
And then he goes back to Damascus, he says.
And then after several years I go up to Jerusalem.
So you can't both go back to Jerusalem immediately after your so-called conversion experience
and go after three and a half years.
So I think that's a problem.
The other thing is what Paul doesn't mention that Luke attributes to Paul.
When Paul is boasting of his Jewish credentials, how he was circumcised on the eighth day of
the people Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrew parents as to righteousness
under the law, blameless.
I got a PhD under Gamaliel, it's not there.
When he talks about, oh, I persecuted the Ecclesiast, the assembly of God and tried to destroy it.
Never mentioned Stephen.
Why not?
I mean, if those were, those were such fundamental moments in his biography.
So there's, there are the gaps that Paul doesn't mention from Luke and there are the
collisions that Acts has with Paul's letters.
And for that reason, I don't think Luke was, the author Luke was familiar with Paul's letters
or if he was, he wasn't reading them very carefully.
I've even heard, and I'm just going to throw out some other ideas because I'm certain there's
more.
There's probably plenty of these examples we could find that when he went in his letters,
when he says he persecuted, he probably meant something similar to the way he was lashed
in synagogues in a similar sense.
He may have been in a position where he may have done to others what was done to him in
terms of these lashes, which is a common like intra-Jewish disciplinary action.
And in, if it happened in the diaspora, which is where I assumed it happened, you have to
choose to submit to it because you could walk away otherwise.
And it's, by disciplinary, it's incorporative.
That's the reason for it is that you want to continue to be part of the community.
Josephus mentions lashing done if somebody's cheap, if they don't give enough charity.
So I mean, there's all sorts of, so who knows what, and you can't, obviously it's not lashing
like Mel Gibson, right, or you wouldn't get up and walk away afterwards.
So it's probably a symbolic gesture.
And also Paul himself complains about being persecuted.
And Paul has a persecution complex.
I mean, he's persecuted by, he's persecuted by pagans, he's persecuted by Roman authorities,
he's persecuted any kind of resistance, any kind of headwind he encounters, he processes
his persecution.
And there's a reason for that because he's identifying with the suffering phrase of Jesus,
which is a very oblique reference to the historical Jesus, right, who suffered on the cross.
And he's also combating pagan gods, whom Jesus is going to defeat when he comes back.
So he's identifying with Jesus in the persecution phase, and he's identifying with Jesus in
the victorious phase as well.
He's sort of like establishing a beachhead against these pagan gods, and Jesus is going
to destroy them in 1 Corinthians 15, or he's going to humble them in Philippians 2, all
those superhuman knees above the earth, upon the earth, and below the earth, that bend
to Jesus.
So Jesus is going to take care of the pagan gods, but Paul's already defying the God of
this world, who's blinded the mind of unbelievers, and to Corinthians 4-4.
So he's fighting pagan gods in order to take his message to pagans and turn them into
ex-pagans.
And if there's one thing we can say about Mediterranean gods is that they had a thing
about being shown respect.
So if you have ex-pagan pagans, you're endangering the city because you're destabilizing the
treaty between heaven and earth, where the gods take care of the city.
That really blew my mind as a layman learning this as to why maybe there was persecution
from pagans, and why they were, in a sense, out to oust Christians who were pulling these
non-Israeli...
Well, it's also endangering for the synagogue communities, which is probably why Paul was
lashed.
I mean, there's only one place in town where a message of only worship the God of Israel
on stop worshiping idols is going to come from.
And that's the synagogue.
And here's the synagogue comfortably embedded for centuries in the Greco-Roman religious
institution of the city.
And all of a sudden, they're putting the security of this radioactively apocalyptic Jewish movement,
which I think is starting out from the synagogue.
I think I'm comfortable dealing with acts as telling us something, because antecedently
it makes sense to deal with biblically literate.
Otherwise, Paul would have had a biblical literacy instant program that the Methodists
would want to copyright, right?
Anyway, so it's destabilizing socially for the...
Sir Talion talks about this.
If the tiber overflows or the Nile doesn't, if the earth moves or the sun doesn't, all
at once the cries go up, the Christians to the lion.
It's because you're destabilizing their friendly relation between heaven and earth if you're
not showing the God's respect.
And that's why the gods are on Paul's back.
He complains about the God of this world.
Who is that God of this world?
He doesn't name the God, but it's not Satan, because he has no trouble naming Satan when
he wants to.
Do you think he has a demiurge idea?
Some people want to try and put...
I mean, Gnosticism love to use him in their pedigree.
We come from Paul.
Gnosticism has a hostile demiurge.
A demiurge in that intellectual matrix of Middle Patonism is the God who does the moving
around and ordering of matter for the high God who doesn't move.
And so Christ is the person who does that, through whom all things are made.
Christ is a demiurgical figure for Paul, although Paul insists that he's an anthropos, a man,
but he's exeranos from heaven.
So he's a special superhuman figure whose humanity Paul insists on, but also insists
on this elevated metaphysical position as well.
Just makes me wonder, because some of these traditions may have taken Paul a little too
far.
And of course, we get new ideas over time.
Just back to the Lukacs-Paul thing, a lot of the scholars, like Pervo and others that
I've read carefully, will say that Paul even stops identifying himself toward the Anazid
Jew in Lukacs.
Never in his letters.
Does he ever even pretend?
Throughout the whole thing, he struggles through the synagogues and acts in this narrative.
But at the end, and I can't remember the percope, the exact phrase, but it was Pervo who noticed
it and went, he's saying those Jews, almost like, I'm not one of them anymore kind of
ideas.
And it makes you wonder if Lukacs is breaking away, kind of like John does, where it's like,
those you diocese, you know, those blaming the Jews.
It's hard to sell it, because he also has Paul, who goes to the synagogue every Sabbath
and worships in the temple at the end.
And PS, he's going to the synagogue in Rome.
That's a good point.
So he's still in.
And it couldn't be those Jews, the ones over there, who I'm having a fight with, right,
is the way to look at it, not the Jews.
Do you think John's doing the Jews?
I think John is its own continent of scholarship, first of all.
I'm not a John guy.
I'm more of a Mark guy.
I think what John is doing is trying to create a polarize.
This is the work of Adele Reinhart's cast out of the Covenant.
What he's doing is, with his rhetoric, trying to make a wedge between his group and Udioi.
There you have the story about being cast out of the synagogue and everything else.
There I think he does mean, I think Udioi means Jews.
A final thought when it comes to Luke acts, and I'm wondering if you think that Dom might
be onto something here.
I take recent things that come at me and then I throw them to other scholars and see what
they think.
Dom said that he thinks that Luke acts undermines Paul's own words about him seeing the Lord.
Have I not seen the Lord?
Paul clearly seems to imply some way, shape, or form, he actually saw the Lord now that
he's in this.
If only we knew what he meant.
Exactly.
Because in acts, it's like they narrated, like, who are you?
He doesn't even know what he's...
He's blinded.
Blinded.
So how does he see him if he's blinded?
Dom thinks that this guy doesn't even realize that whoever's author in this is not getting
Paul right here.
Because Paul's like, have I not seen the Lord?
How are you going to see him if you're blind?
The story tells you you can't even see him.
And to make this more complicated, in Galatians 1, when he talks about this moment of transition,
he says, you wouldn't know this from the English translation, it says, God revealed
his son in me, not to me, in me, which, given his idea of pneumatic possession, makes you
wonder if it were an interior event.
But then he has, Christ was seen in Galatians 1 Corinthians 15, so it's...
I don't know.
Yeah.
What is going on with that?
Dr. Tabor wrote his dissertation, and it made me think about this whole second Corinthians,
is it...
In second Corinthians, where he talks about once a new man, caught up to the third heaven.
Yeah, he doesn't...
He's not like...
I have a friend who...
Yeah.
According to Tabor, he says, I'm not dogmatic about this, but this could be Paul saying
about his conversion, it could be that he's...
He could be like kind of referring to like, I knew a man 14 years ago, like back in the
day, and you know who it is, no way to know, but like, if that is, it's so mystical, whether
in the body or out, he doesn't even know what he's talking about.
Well, if you're doing a heavenly tour, it's a good question, because flesh belongs in
the sub-lunar realm.
I mean, you've got to think in terms of Science 101, with antiquity, it's a geocentric universe.
The lunar sphere is where this type of flesh resides, and if you go up to the third heaven,
you're probably not in the body of flesh, because you can't drag it past the sphere
or the moon.
That's just simple physics.
Yeah, this is interesting.
There's a lot.
Paul's an interesting guy.
And right now, Robin Faith Walsh is writing something about the moon pertaining to Paul.
So I love all of you scholars.
I mean, if it weren't for you, Myth Vision wouldn't be where it's at.
So thank you.
I'm certain there are more.
Is there any reading recommendations you would refer someone on Luke Axe on how to dive deeper
into later dating, or any of these?
Well, proof always, I think, really good on the later dating.
Of course, it's hard to read a commentary recreationally, and I remember it's at least
two inches thick, but I think that would be a gold standard.
Or an extremely conservative denial of any clash between Paul and Axe.
You could go to Martin Hangle.
And in terms of rethinking the authorship of the Gospels, of which Luke is one, there's
now work on thinking of these, not as community documents, but as documents of literati, which
they would be, which is a tiny upper crust of Greco-Roman society.
And that upends the apple cart completely.
Did you read the Origins of Christian Literature by Robin Faith Walsh?
Did you like it?
Yes, I loved it.
Okay.
Wow.
That's why I started to get the hint from you, because I think it wasn't long ago that
people were in that kind of German folklore, the...
Romantic.
Romantic, yes.
And now I read her work, and I was like...
It's such a new...
You know, I encounter new ideas, and I have to think with them a while before I can switch
my head around.
But it made so much sense prima facie, right, that I mean, these are written documents.
And if you strip away, I mean, professional New Testament studies is so Germanic.
I mean, it was born in the Reformation.
It's still a Protestant club, for the most part, despite, you know, God help us Jews
and Catholics even, being New Testament scholars.
So it's...
I think what Robin did is situate the scholarship in that German romantic matrix very, very compellingly.
And then she also situated these ancient texts in a native habitat, which would be literate
reading groups.
And it's a really interesting book, and it's one-tenth the size of Pervault's commentary.
Exactly.
That's another good reason to read it.
Go read Robin Faith Wall.
Thank you so much for this.
I know she'll appreciate that.
And yeah, I think even Bart Ehren, I got him on record saying, yep, I think she's on the
money, I think she's on the right path.
So I think scholarship's heading down that.
I know.
That's a huge...
I mean, it changes everything.
It really does.
It does.
Especially when Bart, his models that he's been built off of for so long with using a
certain kind of like...
He still thinks there's probably some type of possible communities that have utilized
those texts, but not necessarily that the texts were written out the gate with this.
And it might make sense when I first threw this in one of my videos where I said, is
this like anti-propylene, anti-this and whatnot?
And you're like, well, we don't know.
We don't know if Mark really knew this.
And her position doesn't say that it doesn't.
She's saying we need to stop thinking in the models that we've thought that way.
Did they have these sources?
Maybe.
Don't know.
We don't know.
Don't know.
I mean, part of it too is, again, New Testament scholarship being born in the Renaissance,
which has this idea of history and getting back to what actually happened.
And if you tether those texts to a community that has circulating oral traditions that
somehow that enables you to go back and back and back and back, it's a relief to be able
to think that there's that type of correspondence between what happened historically and what
you have represented in the text, but that doesn't make it true.
Thank you.
Thank you to those who contributed in the GoFundMe on making this trip possible for
these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson.
I want to give a special shout out to you.
Your names are chiseled in history.
I also want to thank everybody who has become a patron of MythVision, making stuff like
this possible, taking academic work that is hiding behind all of these scholarships, all
of these colleges, and making it public.
Knowledge for everybody to learn.
