Ladies and gentlemen, I'm alive! I made it to Washington State in one piece with my family,
but I never stopped working in case you've been asked that question.
Hey dude, chill out and why don't you just give it a break?
I get it, I get it. I don't know how in case you're wondering.
So, I was getting haircuts for my kids today and realized that Gnostic Informant went live with a
legend. And for those of you who didn't get it, it was John Dominic Crossen. And yes,
we caught him before his apotheosis. You'll look back to this day in history and say,
these men actually did something quite miraculous in these times. I'm outside enjoying the wonderful
weather, waiting till I can move into my rental property while I'm at my parents. In the meantime,
I'm working to bring you what you love the most. So, I watched this episode where Luke acts,
perception of Paul is being discussed on Gnostic Informant's YouTube channel.
Go subscribe if you don't want any eternal conscious torment. This is not a joke. Pascal's wager
that joker. Anyway, I asked some interesting questions. Is Luke really a companion of Paul?
Is there any contradictory evidence that says otherwise? And of course, Dom says yes. And in
his book, Render Under Caesar, he says yes, and he gives you evidence. However, Christian apologists
don't say so. And of course, Dom also answers my question about the dating of Luke acts with Steve
Mason and Richard Purvo's commentary, the Hermionea commentary on acts, on what they had to say.
You see, the sun started shining all of a sudden because what I'm saying is gifted.
Hear me, my apologist friends. You might want to consider what I'm saying is truly from heaven.
These are the facts. And don't worry, when I get into my new house, I will be hitting them where
it hurts the most, bringing you solid, critical content. And never forget, we are MythVision.
Go subscribe to Gnostic Conformant, get John Dominic Crossen's book, and check out this fire
podcast. Derek from MythVision. Thank you for the super chat, Derek. Is Luke acts aware of Josephus
works? Scholars like Steve Mason and Richard Purvo date these works to the second century.
What do you say? Well, I'm quite happy with the dating. I'm quite happy with the dating in the
beginning of the second century, because it used to be the people would say, well, these are two
separate books. So he wrote Luke, the author wrote his first, he wrote the gospel in the 70s or the
80s. And then later, you wrote a sequel 20 or 30 years later, I, I date the whole thing from the
latest point. So yes, I have no problem with saying he wrote it in the first or second date. Does he,
I've read Steve, read Richard Purvo's book, by the way, it persuaded me. Once again, I'm very careful
trying not to get into an argument that can't be proved one way or the other,
when I think more important things to say. So I'm much more important for me to try and see,
can we read Luke acts as a single integrated volume. But I would not argue with, with Steve or
Richard, I think their cases are very, very strong, the late Richard, I think they're very, very
strong cases. They could well have read, read Josephus, there's, there's, their arguments
are very, very good. I would not dare argue against them. Good point. He also says, excellent
guest, Dr. Cross. How do we know that Luke X isn't written by the companion of Paul?
Usually the, the, how would I say it, the presumption in the past, if this is written by
a companion of Paul, especially when they're going with those resources towards the end,
well, then we can really trust it. You can surely trust a companion because he's going to tell you.
You can't have, I doubt if you could have a companion of Paul writing around the year 120.
Now I have great respect for people who are 80 years of age.
Get my point, I think, but I don't know that's pushing the age limits. So you can't have it,
if you have it written in the 70s, which I can't think, then you might have a companion.
But here's the important thing. I think we should take seriously the we sections. I think
Luke or the author at least has a source of somebody who has a travel log. Now,
if you're traveling, you have a travel log, went here, went here, went here, went here,
here. I did it when I was in the Middle East all the time. I started off with a travel log with
just where I was going to go. By the end, when I was finished, it was all filled in. So if I gave
it to you, you think I planned this whole thing magnificently from the beginning. No, I planned
where to be and then I did forever ahead. So I'm imagining the we were travel. We did this,
we did this, we went here, we went here. And I think that's quite accurate. Now, but Luke puts in
there. So for example, he sails into Miletus. Well, you could do that in the first century.
You won't do it. We went to Miletus in a nice air conditioned bus today. You won't sail into
Miletus now. The whole thing is filled out. But did he give a talk to the elders from Ephesus
who came to Miletus? No, that's Luke. That's Luke. But I think there's a travel log. So
Luke has excellent information. Watch the interpretation, because it's Luke.
Yeah. That's a good point. Thank you for that.
Thank you, Derek.
And another one from Derek, and I think this is the last one from Derek.
Is it obvious that Luke X contradicts Paul? Any examples of clear contradictions between Luke X
and Paul's letters? Okay, I mentioned one in passing, you know, who's guarding the gates of
Damascus. But let me go with another one. Luke gives you three different accounts, as you well
know, of Paul's conversion, let's call it. He's not converting, obviously, from Judaism to Christianity.
He's converting from being the persecutor to being in the apostle. But let me call it conversion.
He gives you three examples of it. I sometimes think he does protest too much, but in any case,
what is crucial in there is that Paul is not called to be an apostle. He gets three calls,
but watch what's never said. First of all, he's blinded. He's blinded by light. Well,
you don't see Jesus when you're blinded by light. And in fact, when he hears the voice, he says,
who is it? Now, Paul lives and dies, the fact that he has seen the Lord. That's what makes him on a
par with Peter and all the others who have seen the Lord both during his life and also, of course,
after his death and visions of the resurrected. If Paul has not seen the Lord, if he just had an
audition, he ain't on a par with them. And his authority, his integrity, his whole identity
is, I'm on a par. I'm the last of the apostles. Maybe I'm the least of the apostles. They're
the other apostles. They were apostles before me. But if they're apostles before me, then I'm an
apostle too. And that's what Luke takes away. That I can never forgive. I don't care if he quibbles
about being nasty about other things, but three different accounts of it. And he never sees the
Lord, doesn't even know who it is, at least says, who are you? This is not. I don't see Isaiah saying,
who are you, by the way? I'm having a vision. Who are you? No. That is where he contradicts Paul,
and that's where Paul lives and dies on. Take away Paul's identity, authority, and integrity,
and you can kiss him goodbye. He's just a phony. Wow, interesting. That's a great answer. Great question.
