Go ahead and subscribe, hit that bell so you're notified every time, become a patron.
Like this video, check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
You want to know the truth?
You're watching a channel that's looking for the truth.
Sometimes the truth is stranger than fiction, they say.
Sometimes the truth hurts.
Sometimes it's not simple, it's complex, like the literature of the Gospels.
Are they imitations of Greek epics?
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald has written extensively on this.
Pay attention, check out the show, you have your criticisms, leave them in the comment
section down below.
I'd be interested to see what you have to say.
At the same time, what if Euripides the Bacchus being used in Luke and Acts?
What if the Dionysian Gospel, or if you will, the 4th Gospel, John, and he's competing
with Dionysus?
To show Jesus is more powerful than any of the gods, more powerful than the other foreign
strange gods that were not Israelite's god.
What if this is a competition of deities, and Jesus reigns supreme, even among the Greco-Roman
world?
Ladies and gentlemen, stay tuned, tell me what you guys think, and don't forget, we are
MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast, your host, Derek Lambert.
Greek imitations in the Gospels.
Goodness gracious, guys.
This is a very hot topic, and we have an expert with us today, Dr. Dennis R. McDonald, discussing
the Greek imitations.
The Gospel authors, those that we've read, and for me, who was a Christian, a fundamentalist,
who cherished these books that were literally true, historically accurate, etc., etc.
Did they write these stories about a Jesus character, maybe a first century apocalyptic
preacher, using the Greek Homeric epics?
Maybe they saw him as someone amazing in their own eyes and said, well, let's write an epic
about him, and they utilized a template from the Homeric epics, the Odyssey, the Iliad.
Is this something that is possible?
Well, Dr. McDonald says it's not only possible, he believes he's found genetic connections
between these manuscripts, these texts, if you will, in some way, shape, or form, are
being utilized into the New Testament.
And today, we're going to be digging into this book here, Luke and Virgil, and mythologizing
Jesus.
Go down in the description, makes you get it.
I really love this, have not fully read this at all, and I just started it, didn't actually
read too much.
And I ask that you guys join me on this journey, because Dennis McDonald's been doing this
for a while.
He's bringing beauty to a book that a lot of people love and cherish, and others might
have been harmed by.
But when you actually find out what's going on here, it brings kind of an interesting artwork.
It's not necessarily that it's sacred and you must go by these things, but it's also
not like, let's bash the thing and try and just poke holes.
Why not look at it like we do the Homeric epics or the Iliad?
Why not consider that?
So Dr. McDonald, I'm done ranting.
I would love to see what we're going to do today, but you might need to recap a little
for our audience before we get into today's discussion on Luke and Acts.
Well, Derek, it's a pleasure to talk to you a fourth time.
And I will give a recap of the first three, but very briefly.
The first one was on the synoptic problem and whether there's a lost gospel that is
often called Q. And I assembled the evidence that there was a lost gospel, both in terms
of traditional redaction criticism, that is an internal investigation and comparison of
the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, an assessment of the reversed priority material
that is places where Matthew is earlier than Mark and Luke is earlier than Mark and Matthew
to assess with social identity criticism to say that it has a coherent social issue with
its outsiders, with itself and with its leader.
When you assemble those materials, it looks like it's a imitation of Deuteronomy to portray
Jesus as the prophet like Moses.
And to establish that we use Mimesis criticism, which has seven criteria that are used for
assessing whether one text is using another text.
The next session, we went from the Logoi of Jesus, that is the Q document, or my reconstruction
of the Q document, also called Q plus, to the Gospel of Mark.
In my view, Mark knows the Q document, but he has problems with it.
The primary reason he has problems with it is he has a different social location.
He's writing after the Jewish war, and he thinks that the destruction of Jerusalem and
its temple is due to Jewish non-believing in Jesus and crucifying him.
He finds in the Iliad a magnificent analogy where Troy falls because Hector dies at the
end of the book.
And last time we spent quite a bit of time, in the session section, we spent quite a bit
of time comparing the death and burial of Jesus with the death and burial of Hector.
Last time, the third session, we moved further into Mark and talked about Mark's imitations
of the Odyssey.
And I described how I came upon memesis criticism, not by reading the Gospels, but by reconstructing
the apocryphal acts of Andrew.
I also, after looking at just one example, really, the anointing of Jesus by a woman
for his burial, and compared it with Eurycleia's recognition of Odysseus, her master by washing
his feet, I talked about why people have not been receptive to memesis criticism in the
Gospel limitations of Homeric epic.
And I found Thomas Kuhn's analysis of scientific revolutions very enlightening.
And just to recap briefly, Kuhn argues that the science is dominated by what he calls
disciplinary matrices.
A disciplinary matrix has to do with information and procedures that normal scientists can
assume are correct when they do their work.
But when they do their work, they often come across anomalies or inconvenient truths that
cannot easily be understood by the paradigms provided by the matrix.
Now these crises, these anomalies create crises for these groups.
And they handle it in several ways.
One, they deny that there are such anomalies.
Another is they try to accommodate the anomalies and the paradigms that exist.
Or they will have a methodological assault on the scientists who are trying to account
for these new data.
Or they will say, OK, they're right, but what they found is insignificant.
And all of those strategies work, in my view, for the way that New Testament scholarship
gospel scholarship, in particular, has been unwelcome to my work because it uncovers way
to many anomalies, inconvenient truths that the discipline has not been capable of absorbing.
And so many scholars, and this is probably for most, the response is to ignore it, to deny it.
Others say, no, they're occasionally overlaps, but we can account for it by the existing methodologies.
Others say McDonald has a bad method, or he applies his criteria randomly.
And in some cases, people acknowledge that what I've done is right, or at least at points is right,
but then they marginalize it.
They say it is not significant.
So that's what we talked about last time.
This time, we're going to talk about Luke Axe and how the author of Luke Axe imitates the Homeric epics,
but also how he interprets Euripides' Bacchai.
And that's going to require a little background information about Euripides and the Bacchai,
similar to what we've been doing with Homer.
So anyway, that's what we've done.
That's where we're going.
Does that sound about right?
That sounds fun.
Luke and Virgil, guys.
Make sure you get the book down in the description.
Yeah, I'm excited.
Obviously, I haven't dug into this one yet.
I've heard Dr. Price say that even verbatim in the mouth of Paul, of course, this is the author of Axe,
saying Paul's saying, words that come directly from Euripides, the Bacchai.
So give us some background.
I'd love to get into some of this stuff.
Like, how can you ignore that?
I think some scholars accept this, though, more than they do your Homeric, Odyssey and Iliad connections.
I think if I know that that is right.
Other scholars have found most of the parallels I'm going to talk about today with the Bacchai in the Acts of the Apostles.
Excellent.
And I think there are several reasons for it.
One is that the stakes are most of the imitations of the Bacchai are in the Acts of the Apostles,
where the theological stakes are not as high as they are for the Gospels.
Another is that the parallels are very clear.
Another is that you only have a few places where the Acts of the Apostles is using the Bacchai.
But if I'm right, Mark is using Homer all over the place, and it's responsible for the bulk of the Christian narrative about Jesus.
That is simply too threatening.
So what we're going to talk about today, you could say, is allowing the dust to settle on the dispute a little bit.
Because much of what I'll have to say has been said by others or is agreed to by scholars who otherwise are skeptical.
By the way, I also want to throw out a tantalizing possibility.
One of the parallels between Mark and the Odyssey, I love the most, we haven't been able to talk about at all.
And that's the polyphemous story and the garrison-demoniac story.
And if we have time at the end of this broadcast, I'd like to look at those parallels, please.
Now, I have a little different strategy for what we can do today.
And that is, I'm going to throw, as they say, lots of manure at the barn and hope that some sticks.
That is, I'm going to have you and I go through these parallels and read them.
And have minimal discussion of them at first and go from one to another, to another, to another.
And then have a kind of global conversation of how is it that people can deny all of these parallels?
Because some of them have got to stick.
Now, if you say that the methodology works, let's say, in the Acts of the Apostles and Euripides Bacchai,
I'd like to know why you think that methodology doesn't work in Mark's use of Homer.
That's exactly what I was thinking you were going to do.
Yeah.
Yes.
So that's how we're going to do it.
Now, so let's begin with Luke's gospel before we get to Acts.
And let's stay with Luke and the Odyssey.
One of the things that Luke adds to Mark and Matthew is the famous story of Lazarus and the rich man in Hades.
Such tours of hell are famous in antiquity.
And one of the most famous is in Odyssey 11, where Odysseus goes to the Netherworld to consult with Thereseus about how to get home.
And when he's there, he sees lots of heroes and his mother, but also he sees a man named Tantalus, where we get our word tantalizing,
who is a rich man who can who sees fruit descending from a tree, but he can never reach it.
The waters rise up to his mouth, but he can't stoop over to drink it.
And in Luke, we have the rich man in Hades and Lazarus and Abraham's bosom.
And he asked Father Abraham, please send Lazarus to dip his finger into water to quench my thirst.
And Abraham says, nope, the chasm is too big and you deserve your punishment for, you know, oppressing him.
Well, then he says, well, send somebody back from the Netherworld to life.
So that my five brothers can not go here and they can be more generous to the poor and so on.
And Abraham says, nope, they've got Moses and the prophets and they don't believe them.
They're not going to believe if anybody came back from the dead.
So this is a tour of hell and it has a tantalizing element.
But whereas Odysseus comes back and can tell his story to make sure that people don't are more moral.
Abraham says, nope, nobody can come back.
But of course, in Luke, Jesus does come back.
So there's a real irony in that story.
The other one that I want to talk about is the famous story of Jesus revealing his identity to two disciples after his death on the road to Emmaus.
And let me tell you the story from the Odyssey.
Odysseus comes home in disguise because if he comes home in his true form, the suitors will kill him.
So for 10 books or so, Odysseus is milling about in Ithaca without being detected except by Eureklaia.
We talked about last time. His dog, Argus, can smell him.
And when he smells him, he dies.
And Odysseus reveals himself in a transfiguration, which is Mark's model for the transfiguration to his son Telemachus.
He shows him that he is his father returned home and then says, you can't tell anybody about this because if they find out they're going to kill me.
Well, Odysseus and Telemachus and some faithful slaves killed the suitors.
Odysseus reveals himself at last to Penelope.
But finally, in the last book of the Odyssey, he reveals himself to his father, but he toys with him at first.
He says, you know, I want to see if he's going to recognize me on his own.
So he comes back and has a little conversation.
The old man breaks down when he hears his son's name.
Odysseus says, okay, I am your son.
I'm here at last.
Take a look at this wound that I suffered from a bore when I was a boy.
And I can tell you what kind of trees we planted in this orchard where we are right now.
And then they have this hugging scene and kissing.
And that's the final recognition scene in the Odyssey.
So Odysseus has revealed to everyone who he is.
Now let's turn to, I have to get my notes straight here because I've been extemporizing.
Mythologizing Jesus, page 133.
All right.
Definitely doing that here.
133, 133.
All right, I'm there.
Ladies and gentlemen, just so you know, the reason why I think it's really good to get these books, and that's probably too bright.
See this chart right here?
Sorry, right here.
He's got them side by side.
It's easy to tell.
You know, one's the Odyssey and one is Luke.
Okay.
Okay, so I'll be the voice of Homer as before, and you're going to be the voice this time of Luke, not of Mark.
Okay.
Odysseus thought dead returned alive.
This is in Luke 24, 13-43.
Jesus died, but returned alive.
Odysseus went to his father's farm.
Jesus met the disciples on the road.
Outside the city to see if he would recognize him with his eyes.
Outside Jerusalem, but their eyes were kept from recognizing him.
Leertes was sad as he worked in his garden.
The disciples were sad as they walked.
The stranger that is Odysseus began asking questions.
The sojourner began asking questions.
Leertes expressed his sadness over the death of his son and the violence of the suitors.
Cleopas expressed sadness over Jesus' death and the violence of the Jewish authorities.
Odysseus spoke with his father about himself in the third person,
but the old man still did not recognize him.
Jesus spoke with his disciples about himself in the third person, but they still did not recognize him.
Odysseus revealed himself by means of his scar and knowledge of the trees, and there was a meal at another venue.
Jesus revealed himself by breaking and distributing bread at a mill at another venue.
Odysseus told Leertes to look at the scar on his leg for proof, quote, I am that man.
Jesus told the disciples to look at the wounds on his hands and feet. It is I myself.
Those who recognized Odysseus were astonished and he comforted them.
On recognizing Jesus, the disciples were terrified and he comforted them.
If Luke's readers picked up these clues and compared the last chapter of the gospel with the last book of the epic,
they should have seen significance to the story invisible on the surface.
Odysseus visited Hades without dying. Jesus died and returned from the dead.
Odysseus' wound came from a hunting accident. Jesus' came from his execution.
The recognition of Odysseus by Leertes demonstrated that the hero had returned home,
but the recognition of Jesus by the disciples demonstrated his status as the Messiah who conquered death.
Here again, Luke does not merely imitate Homer. He rivals him by exalting Jesus over Odysseus.
If you don't see the parallels, you don't see the theological punch.
Wow, that is powerful, Dennis. I really want more people to see this.
This is why I love what you do and there's always more to learn.
When I first heard of the Escavating the Empty Tomb series that uses your work on kind of exposing and showing these connections,
you see that it's a literary document. And of course, the guy who did the series is trying to help Christians who are fundamentalists
recognize that, hey, this is a literal historical document. It's literature.
It makes me want to read all your works. I want to wrap my head around these ideas and wonder if there's things you didn't connect.
Our first episode when we talked about mythologizing Jesus and we were talking about Hercules going into Hades
and getting into a trance. He kills his own family, you know, because the goddess.
And then he went and got the three headed dog, Cerberus.
And I was like, well, is it possible the three concept might come up with the Peter, James and John going up on them?
I don't know. There was connections, though. And I started doing things and I wondered, it's not a strong one necessarily,
but I want everyone to get into this. So I'm shutting up. This was great. This is great. Please continue.
So let's go to the Acts of the Apostles. Derek, now I want to turn to the imitations of the Odyssey in the Acts of the Apostles.
Many scholars have seen parallels between the Shipwreck of Paul in chapter 27 and his safe arrival in Rome with Odysseus's Shipwreck in Odyssey 5
and his arrival in the city of the Theochians. And I don't want to repeat that here,
but there are other places in the Acts of the Apostles, too, where we find imitations of both the Iliad and the Odyssey.
I want to say why imitation is so important for understanding Christian origins from the perspective of a well-known classicist.
And I'm going to read from the opening chapter of Tim Whitmarsh's very important book on Greek literature in the Roman Empire.
And the subtitle is called The Politics of Imitation.
And here's what he says.
Becoming Greek in the Roman Empire meant constructing one's own self-representation through and against the canonical past.
The literature of Roman Greece engages dynamically with inherited images, tropes, and identities, actively constructing a new way of looking at the world.
That is why I write of a politics of imitation or mimesis. It was through writing literature that Greek cultural identity was most richly and intensively explored.
That's what's going on in Luke Acts. Luke is rewriting classical Greek poetry in order to collect on a certain amount of cultural capital that he can appeal to with his readers to establish the identity of the Christian movement.
And he was very successful in doing it.
No serious treatment of Christian origins has ignored the Acts of the Apostles and the structure of its narrative, even those like myself who are highly critical of that reconstruction.
So the process of imitation or mimesis in the Gospels already in Mark, but it's clear in Luke Acts, is a process of self-identification, cultural identification over against the outgroup, which would be the Roman Empire or paganism and Judaism.
So let's switch to Euripides Bakai.
Euripides is an Athenian tragedian and a brilliant author, not only for the stage, but also as a theologian. He's highly critical of the gods, and his Dionysus is one bad mama.
And it works like this. Odysseus comes on Dionysus comes on stage with no one else around. And he says, I am the son of Zeus Dionysus.
I have come to the place of my birth, Thebes disguised as a mortal priest, because I want to punish it for maligning my mother, Emily, who said that she had sired me by Zeus.
And what I've done, the God says, is I've sent the women of Thebes into the mountains to worship me in orgies, where I have given them wine.
And these mined, more than mined, means a crazed woman. These crazed women are out there worshiping me and leaving their families.
And I'll definitely punish Penteas, because he's the one who hasn't accepted my cult and has maligned my mother.
Well, two old men, Cadmus and Thereseus, Thereseus the blind seer in Homer,
dress in drag, they dress like women, and the God emboldens them so they can go out and worship with the women and dance with the women in their orgies.
Well, King Penteas thinks all of that is nonsense, and this stuff of the women leaving their homes is going to be terribly problematic for the city.
So he sends his soldiers into the mountains and they arrest some of the mineds, but they don't stay in prison very long because the God frees them and they go back into the mountains to worship.
Well, this makes Penteas even more irate. So he arrests Dionysus's priest, who's actually the God himself, and they have a brief interrogation and Penteas says, I'm going to imprison you in my stable,
and then take you out and kill you, probably by stoning.
Well, Odysseus is in, I'm sorry, Dionysus is in the prison, his chorus is out of women, is outside falling on their feet, on their faces, and
to die.
Dionysus frees himself by causing an earthquake, and Penteas's palace also is in ruins, but instead of escaping Dionysus confronts Penteas and says, look, I'm not going anywhere, I'm not fleeing, and if I were you, I would not kick against the goat.
A mortal against a God.
But Penteas is insistent on getting rid of these mineds.
Dionysus, the God of wine, and if you will, the God of madness,
afflicts Penteas with madness, and talks him into a dressing in drag himself, and the two of them with the Herald going into the mountains to spy on these women and see what their cavorting is all about.
So they go out into the mountains, and Penteas says, you know, I can't see them very well.
And Dionysus says, I'll tell you what, I'll put you on top of a tree, so you have a good view.
And so he sees what's going on with the the mineds from atop a tree.
By the way, this is the, this is the background for Zacchaeus up a tree in Luke's gospel.
So, but the women see him up on this tree, up root the tree, and they dismember him, and his own mother puts the head of Dionysus on a thursus and carries it back triumphantly into the city, until she recognizes that this is that she's killed her son.
And then Dionysus appears Deus Ex Machina, you know, from the machine on stage, and expels Cadmus, Pentea, Agave, and the whole royal family from the city.
So that's the famous story of the Bacchae, and the bottom line is Dionysus is a God, and you don't want to oppose him, because he's one mean dude.
So that's the story of the Bacchae. Now, when we talk about the Gospel of John in the next one or two presentations, we'll come back to the Bacchae, and I'll fill in a little more of the story.
But I think this is enough for now.
So what I'd like us to do is to look at
Luke and Virgil.
Okay.
And I want to start with page 61.
All righty.
So I'll be the voice of Euripides and his characters, and you'll be the voice of Luke in the Acts of the Apostles. So I'm reading
from lines 1 to 575, and you'll be reading from Acts 2 to 5. Now, these are obviously summaries of themes.
A new religion, the religion of Dionysus arrives in Thebes.
A new religion erupts in Jerusalem.
The God had introduced his cult to Phrygia, Media, Asia, and Arabia, as well as Persia and Bactria.
The message is heard by sojourners from Phrygia, Media, Asia, Arabia, Parthia, Elam, and Mesopotamia.
Worshippers are moved to act strangely. Fire appears on their heads, and they perform miraculous deeds.
Penteas is troubled and perplexed.
Those present present are troubled and perplexed.
Penteas accuses them of being drunk.
Some say that the believers are drunk.
Terecius tells Penteas that the mine adds are not drunk.
Peter tells the crowds that those who speak in foreign tongues are not drunk.
This possession by the God includes the ability to prophesy both for men and women.
This madness is prophetic for sons and daughters and for servants, both men and women.
Penteas should receive the God.
The crowd should repent and be baptized.
Cadmus and Terecius, though old, are ready to dance, strengthened by the God.
An old cripple, who had never walked, is given strength to leap about the temple.
Penteas arrests Bacchus and Dionysus and then interrogates them.
The authorities arrest the apostles and then interrogate them.
Penteas intensifies his opposition and calls for troops to arrest him.
The authorities intensify their opposition, forbidding the apostles to teach.
Dionysus's followers are resolute to obey their God, the pest or the child of Zeus.
Peter and the apostles are resolute to obey their Lord, the pest of God, child of God.
Penteas places Bacchus in a public prison.
Authorities place the apostles in a public prison.
Penteas tries to silence the mineds.
Authorities try to silence the apostles.
The chorus prays for divine intervention and the God responds with an earthquake.
Jesus' followers pray for divine intervention and God responds with an earthquake.
The God frees the Bacchus and himself.
An angel of the Lord frees the apostles.
The Bacchus continue their worship.
The apostles continue their preaching.
Penteas continues his Theomachia, that is his fight against the God.
Gamalel warns against becoming Theomachoi.
Theomachoi is in acts of the apostles and in the Bacchai as those who fight the God.
These are verbally identical.
So is kick against the goats, correct?
So is kick against the goats.
Scholars have seen these parallels.
They are far too many and generative to say they're simply in the air.
There's got to be a literary genetic connection between them.
And just as Dionysus cares for his own and will protect them,
the God of the apostles is going to protect them.
He's going to protect them and make sure that they can worship him in freedom.
So this makes wonderful sense in terms of Luke's own social identity I would submit.
You know something to think about too in light of the parallels that you played out at the end of the story in Dionysus.
It doesn't seem in our mind that that's a happy ending, that Dionysus' head is on a pike if you will.
He got killed.
He's defeated in the end.
Now, of course, Jesus ends up resurrecting in a sense and defeats that, beats that,
but his followers have to face persecution and get killed as well.
So this, it's just a strange thing that they have to be the ones who end up getting killed in the narrative, if you will.
I don't know.
Who gets killed in what narrative?
Just the idea that the apostles are going to face persecution and death.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, now we're going to see that actually in the next section we're going to read, which is continuing the same page.
Okay.
Paul plays the role in the Acts of the Apostles as Penteas.
He is the Godfighter.
He resists the presence of the new religion and is given letters to go and persecute the followers of Jesus.
And in the meantime, there is a, when he goes to do so, he has an encounter with the God and becomes not a Godfighter, a Theomachus, but a Theophilus, that is a lover of God.
And let's read those parallels now.
And I think these are astonishing.
And again, scholars have seen these parallels.
These are not just my fabrications in the middle of the night after two beers.
Okay, so the Bacchai.
Penteas persecuted the followers of Dionysus.
Saul persecuted the followers of Jesus.
The Minad saw a blazing fire consuming the royal palace, later a light shown from earth to heaven that exposed the king's perch.
A light from the sky all at once flashed around him.
Dionysus called to the Minads from within the prison.
Have you fallen to earth?
Just before he dies, Penteas falls to the ground.
He fell to the earth.
A voice phony from the ether cried out.
Saul heard a voice from the sky.
Dionysus warned Penteas, I would rather sacrifice to him than kick against the goads, a mortal raging against the God.
The heavenly voice warned Saul, it is hard for you to kick against the goads.
Dionysus told the Minads, but rise up.
Jesus told Saul, but rise up.
Go to the city.
Penteas repented of his sins, but too late to be saved.
Saul was temporarily blinded, but eventually believed in Jesus.
Now in the rest of this page, I talk about the similarities in Greek and other places where we have these connections.
But if you take a look, Derek, at the third box from the end there.
Yes, sir.
We have proskentralaktizimi in the Bacchai.
And we have proskentralaktizimi.
And you can see, even without knowing Greek, that the letters look very similar to you.
Those are the same words.
It's a near quotation.
And it's a quotation in a similar context.
Now this is what I would call a memetic flag.
Luke is telling the reader, think of the Bacchai when you see this story.
Now here's what happens.
What happens to Penteas in the Bacchai?
He dies at the end.
What happens to Saul?
He sees the light, if you will.
And he becomes then the great evangelist for Jesus.
And in fact, he plays a role that switches at this point in the Acts of the Apostles.
Instead of playing the role of Penteas, we're going to see now he plays the role of Dionysus himself.
Now these parallels cannot be attributed to just motifs in the air or similar ways that people talk about prison escapes.
And that's how it's almost always treated in the literature.
Though people are obligated to say, yes, there are similarities with what's going on in Homer, in Euripides.
But these are too compelling.
So this is some of the manure that you throw to the barn that sticks.
So in light of this, there's a couple of things and I don't want to get stuck on this, but wouldn't this tell you generally the type of author that Acts is that Luke is?
What I mean is social identity.
Do you really think a Jew would write this?
And that's kind of the point I would say, I'm not going to say it's not possible that a Hellenized Jew didn't write this, but it seems like this would be a Greco-Roman author of Acts.
What is your thoughts on that?
We have parallels of imitation of the Bacchai by Jews.
Okay.
So, but they obviously are Hellenized Jews and they're trying to do something that's similar to what Luke does.
That is, they're trying to cash in on these marvelous stories to establish the justification of their own social identity, how their God cares for them as well.
So this can be and has been imitated also by Jews.
By the way, there's a magnificent book by a friend of mine named Courtney Friesen and it's on the rewriting of the Bacchai among pagans, Jews and Christians.
And it shows that this stuff was all over the place and that Luke's readers could have known of this play even by going to see it performed.
Now, one of the things that's fascinating too, and I'll pick it up at this point, but we can come back to it.
Remember in Euripides, Dionysus is not a nice guy.
Right.
He provides wine.
He provides sex.
He provides fun.
But he also punishes people who disagree with him viciously.
That's not true for the author of Luke acts.
Jesus is God is compassionate and is much more acceptable to a kind of platonic understanding of the goodness of God.
Now, there's one more example I want to give you before we're done.
And this is the one that in antiquity, most people picked up on.
And we're going to continue reading.
This is page 64.
Okay.
Dionysus arrived in Thebes with the female entourage from Lydia, Asia Minor.
He was intent on establishing his cult in Achaea.
Paul arrived in Philippi with an entourage from Trois.
Trois is Troy.
Basically, that's Troy.
Trois, Asia Minor.
He was intent on establishing the cult of Christ in Macedonia.
The God drove Theban women into the hills to worship him.
The apostle converted Lydia, who was praying outside the city with other women.
Now, remember Euripides chorus is all of women.
They come from Lydia and they are actually called sometimes the Lydian women.
So Paul is going for the first time to Europe and who meets in there,
but a woman named Lydia from Thyatira, which is in Lydia.
Asia Minor.
She's Lydia from Lydia.
And she's out in the mountains, worshiping their God with other women.
Police.
This is not a top boss.
This is mimesis.
Yeah.
My neds were given the gift of prophecy and hailed the new God outside the city.
A possessed, prophesying slave girl identified Paul and Silas as slaves of the most high God.
Dionysus struck women men.
Paul drove the demon out of her.
Penteous accused the God of introducing religious practices alien to Greeks and imprisoned him in a dark prison without trial.
He thought that he changed his changed his feet, but changed those of a bull instead.
The owners of the slave girl accused Paul and Silas of introducing religious practices alien to Romans and the authorities imprisoned them without trial and changed their feet in stocks in a dark prison.
The mined sang outside the prison and the God sang from within and caused an earthquake that freed him.
Paul and Silas sang praises to God in the prison when an earthquake freed them.
Thinking Dionysus might escape, Penteous drew his sword to slay him.
Thinking the prisoners had escaped, the jailer drew his sword to slay himself.
Instead of fleeing, Dionysus waited for Penteous to emerge from the prison and tried to talk sense into him.
Instead of fleeing, Paul, Silas and the other prisoners waited in the prison and Paul talked the jailer out of suicide.
And by the way, this is the place where we find in the Bacchai the statement, I would not kick against the God, a mortal against a God.
Light came from the burning palace.
Mineds fell to the ground in fear of the earthquake and fire.
The jailer asked for a light was terrified and fell at the feet of Peter and Silas.
Penteous dropped his sword when he failed to inflict harm.
The jailer sheathed his sword when he learned that no prisoner had fled.
Penteous remained defiant and suffered for it with his life, his family grieved.
The jailer converted and was baptized with his household.
They rejoiced.
That here ends the reading of the word.
I think those are enough parallels to establish that the author of Luke acts wants his readers to see that Jesus is more compassionate than Dionysus.
And his God is more passionate than Dionysus.
I think he wants the reader to see that when Saul encounters a divine epiphany, he converts in a way that Penteous doesn't.
So any thoughts?
I think it's fascinating.
I just want to say like that was like two pages, maybe three at the most.
And that's just one book.
That's what he does in these books.
He builds up a lot of parallels and a lot of things that connect these stories together.
I found it interesting and I'm skipping ahead just a tad by saying when I was reading your the fourth gospel and Euripides the Bacchai or the Dionysus and gospel, if you will.
I saw like what you're talking about here in Luke acts that are also in John, but we're going to get into that in the next episode.
I suspect this is just what it does for me is it shows a lot of syncretism, you know, in the in the culture, trying to, like you said, connect the pagan world and the Jewish world and find a way where the social identity connects the two in this one cult.
And it makes more sense saying that, you know, that.
Well, let me let me take issue a little bit.
Okay, so syncretism, I do not use the word syncretism.
Okay, because syncretism in Greek actually means comparison, which is fine.
But syncretism as it often gets used in the history of religions means homogenizing.
That is, you bring two cultures together.
I don't think that's what's going on here because I think what we have here is cultural struggle.
It's more antagonism than it is syncretism.
So, yes, you have the merging of cultural features from Judaism and the Greek world, and they are put together in an artistic way.
There's no doubt about it.
So you're right to have thought of it that way.
And if we say syncretism simply means comparison, that's not a problem.
But if we mean that it's homogenizing the two groups or merging, synthesizing the two groups, I don't think that quite captures it.
Because these authors are interested in competing with their surrounding outgroups and not just playing nice with them.
That is, Luke is not trying to convert pagans into the Christian cause.
He's interested in telling Christians that your God is actually better than the gods of your outgroups.
So the issue of audience becomes very important.
Now, you anticipated the Gospel of John, and I'm so glad you did because it looks like you've been reading my notes.
This is what I wanted to talk about next.
By the way, did you want to respond to syncretism?
Well, just one thing when you said that he's not trying to convert pagans.
I was thinking of Acts 17, the Arapagus in Athens, and I was wanting to kind of get your opinion on that.
It sounds like he's trying, and I know that this isn't actually Paul.
This is the author, Luke, using this narrative and putting words in the mouth of Paul.
But could there have been a tradition of a Paul who's running around saying, look, to an unknown God, you don't know who you worship.
We have the truth, and you need to worship the correct God.
Our God is the right one, which I get what you're saying because you point out Dionysus is not as good as Jesus.
At every turn, they make their God better than Dionysus, or they might make their God better than Hercules, or Odysseus, or just someone else.
They make their version better, which is why I see what you're saying there.
But as far as converting pagans or trying to get them, that's what I was thinking Paul was doing in Acts 17, but maybe I'm mistaken.
Yes, that's exactly what Paul is doing.
And that's what the historical Paul must have done.
He's founding churches, but he's making a place for gentile inclusion.
Absolutely. But at chapter 17, Paul no longer is playing the role so much of Dionysus as he did in the previous chapter.
He's now the new Socrates.
Who else comes to Athens, or is in Athens, is troubled by the statuary of multiple gods and is going to talk about a God who otherwise is unknown and is able to take on philosophical opponents.
And then later, like Socrates, Paul has his own, is brought up on charges and himself will be executed like Socrates.
So here we have Paul presented as the Socrates character.
So yes, you're right.
Luke certainly applaud Paul's Gentile mission.
So in that sense, he certainly would be delighted if people read Luke Acts and became members of the Jesus movement.
But his primary audience almost certainly is believers.
After all, the person who is addressed in both books is called Telemachus.
I'm sorry.
Theophilus, the one who loves God, and he treats Theophilus as one who's among us.
These are the things that happened among us and you want to learn about these teachings.
So Theophilus becomes the ideal reader and he's a believer.
So yes, there's a commitment to a Gentile mission, but the book is probably meant to be read by believers.
But these believers need to know something about Socrates and Euripides and Dionysus and so on.
So these are people who really are living in that period.
Now, the Gospel of John, I want to segue here.
And this is what we're going to be talking about next time.
Okay.
The earliest attestation that we have of the Gospel of Luke appears in the Gospel of John,
which almost certainly was written after Luke and we'll talk about that next time.
The question then is, did the author knew the Gospel of Luke when it was still attached to the Acts of the Apostles?
Because by the end of the second century, the Gospel of Luke had been detached from the Acts of the Apostles.
We don't have a single scrap of physical evidence that the two books ever circulated together.
The Luke's Gospel either was transmitted independently or much more commonly as a part of the Four Gospel Collection together with Matthew, Mark, and John.
Did the author of the Gospel of John know Acts of the Apostles while it was still attached to the Gospel of Luke?
I think he did.
Now that means that in reading the Acts of the Apostles, he could have seen these imitations of the Bacchai.
And then he could have said, I can do that too.
And in my case, I'm going to make Jesus the Dionysus-like person.
That's why I talk about the Gospel of John as a Dionysian Gospel.
But I think the author may have been inspired to make Jesus-like Dionysus by having read the Acts of the Apostles, where Luke already has had these imitations of the Bacchai.
There, Paul is imitating Dionysus, as we've seen with the Prison Break scene and so on.
But the author of the Fourth Gospel, actually there are three Fourth Gospels, if you will, we'll talk about that next time.
The earliest of which is this Dionysian Gospel.
And by the way, ancient readers saw the similarities between Jesus and the Fourth Gospel and Dionysus.
There can't be any doubt about it.
So that's why I wanted to spend some time with Acts of the Apostles and the Bacchai, because you're going to see the same thing in spades when we get to the Gospel of John.
Oh, yes, you are. Yes, you are.
I've got notes galore when I was reading it and I said to myself, how in the world am I going to cover all this in a show?
We're going to have to pick specific things. There's no way, but one of them I really want to talk about will be John 6, eat of my flesh, drink of my blood.
But we will get into all of these things, of course, as we get there.
I'm just giving you guys like a forecast and letting you know, like, that's a big question I have, because John does something different than the other Gospels in many ways, not just that way, but in many other ways.
So that was a great show. I really enjoyed this. I learned a lot.
There was a lot of great connections. It just makes you have to ask yourself, what are we reading here, ladies and gentlemen?
So this is beautiful literature. They were very intelligent authors writing these things.
And maybe you can go back and read these books with a fresh new look and maybe you find connections that others haven't.
I don't know. But Dennis, do you have anything you'd like to say before we go, sir?
I have two things I'd like to say.
One is, don't take my word for it.
Please read Homer. Please read Euripides and read them for enjoyment for themselves.
This is magnificent literature. It's so poorly known in the modern world. It's a tragedy.
And these texts are called classics for a reason.
It's because they are compelling about the human condition, about the nature of the deity and life and death and war and love and compassion.
They are beautiful.
And if one of the things I can do is to take people who understand themselves to be Christian identified in one way or another,
to encourage them to read Greek classics and, of course, Latin classics, Virgil's Need comes close in its value,
then I think that would have been a worthy enterprise, whether you see the parallels that I see or not.
The second is, I have no assumption that I have seen all of the treasures that are mimetically connecting Greek poetry in the New Testament.
So get your shovel out. Read these wonderful texts.
Open yourselves up to the beauties of creative literary imitation and just swim in it and enjoy it.
So the two things I want to say, one is go to the library or go to Amazon and get a copy of the Illy of the Odyssey in the Bacchai and read it for yourself.
The second is, don't think that I have done an exhaustive job in explaining how these texts interact with each other.
Figure that out for yourself and add more information.
We really need to have this kind of a discussion.
Thank you so much, Dr. McDonald. I really do appreciate it. Guys, gals, please go check out the books that he has on this material.
If you are interested in this kind of topic as I am, I love seeing connections like this and it brings more beauty to the text.
It really does.
And so with that being said, I really do appreciate you giving us your time.
I cannot wait to get into the Dionysian Gospel the next episode.
And going into that, I think we're going to spend a few episodes on John.
We will be having a debate coming up, ladies and gentlemen with Dr. McDonald and Dr. Carrier on the historical Jesus.
Like was there a guy and or was he a complete celestial figure who's you hemorrhize and made into history?
We're going to be discussing that in the great links and I want to allow you and him to kind of have an open free dialogue back and forth because I don't want to get between you guys.
So ladies and gentlemen, be looking for that and Dr. Goodacre coming on the second week of January.
You're just ready to fight.
Dr. McDonald just has his gloves on.
No, I'm just kidding.
I look forward to this. This is going to be exciting.
So thank you so much.
All right. And don't forget.
We are Mrs.
