Luke Axe. Christian Apologist will never tell you this.
Luke Axe is fiction. Yes, it is not a historical document. Is there history or historical elements
in Luke Axe? Sure, but Dennis R. McDonald is going to say something you will not find ever
in Christian Apologist circles. As we speak, Christian Apologists are brewing a stew of responses
to MythVision's critical views pertaining to the biblical texts, Luke Axe in particular.
And I want to address this, and I will not stop hammering home critical scholarship
that is pointing out the literary geniusness, if you will, of the author. And Dr. Dennis R.
McDonald dives deep in his book, Synopsis of Epic Tragedy in the Gospels. He goes in and
shows you all of the literary imitations. He mentions in this video 30 imitations that you
find in Luke Axe that you also find in the Aeneid, which imitates the Homeric epics, the Iliad in
the Odyssey. It's all here and it's all well documented. So you're looking for a book that's
going to help handle this issue and show you that this is imitation and not literal history?
Again, this is your book and stay tuned because they will never tell you this, ever.
Dennis McDonald, your latest work is so fantastic. I'm not kidding. You know, when I bought it,
I was like, this is great. But after we did our course and we really dug into it, I realized
this is better than I realized. And so I'm looking forward to it. You have a section in here that
particularly deals with a book that is actually used by certain groups of Christians, we'll call
them apologists, to nail down the historical accuracy and the validity that Jesus actually
rose again from the dead. And the early church miraculously survived due to the feats described
in it called Luke Axe. And today I want us to try and honestly just smash the idea. We need to,
for safety, recognize Luke Axe as a beautiful piece of literature that is well crafted.
And it's extremely intelligent, but far from literally true. And let's call it what it is,
it's fiction in some way, shape, or form, place in the role of fiction, even though it does
borrow from Josephus or do other things. So with that being said, if I were to say to you,
hey, you say Luke Axe is not literally true. How do you know? Okay, I want to say a little more
about the book if I might. The title of the book is Synopses of Epic Tragedy in the Gospels.
It actually has three volumes. The first is dedicated to the Synoptic Gospels,
including the Lost Gospel Cue, and it's called Immemetic Synopsis of Four Synoptic Gospels.
So those Gospels are the Cue document, as I reconstruct it, Mark, Matthew, and Luke.
And mimesis means literary imitation, and the imitation is largely of the Homeric epics,
or Athenian tragedy, and of course, the Jewish Bible. The second volume is one that we want to
talk about in this session, and it's in memetic synthesis of the Acts of the Apostles. It's memetic
in that it imitates the Iliad, the Odyssey, Europe's Bacchai, and the Platonic Socratic Dialogues,
and that's what we'll be talking about, especially the poetry. Volume three is a
memetic synopsis of three Gospels of John, and the way that works is that the Gospel of John
was composed in three consecutive stages, sequential stages, and you can tease them out,
unbrave them, if you will, and then compare them with each other, and the subtitle to this one
is Imitations of the Synoptic Gospels and Euripides Bacchai, which is a famous Athenian play.
The Bacchai was already imitated by the author Luke Axe. Now, I want to
I agree with you that Luke Axe has in it very little historical information. Even though the
author likely is using Josephus for some of his historical information, he almost certainly knows
the collection of Paul's letters, from which he gets some of Paul's travels and his associates and
so on, but the author is not interested in writing a history in the same way that we would write
histories, or let's say Suetonius or Attacitus or Herodotus would have written it. The reason is
that it is challenging Virgil's need, and I'm sorry that I have to say something about the
need, being others in order to understand the Acts of the Apostles. Virgil finished the need in
19 BCE, relatively early in the career of Augustus Caesar, and he died with it unfinished,
and it almost at once became a hot item. And he attempted to imitate, he imitated,
the Illid and the Odyssey, with the Odyssey at the first part and the Illid in the second part,
to say how the Trojans left Troy after the Trojan War under the leadership of Aeneas,
who was the son of the goddess Venus that is Aphrodite in Greek, and sailed with a number of
ships from Troy, ended up in Carthage, and he escaped Dedo and the Carthaginians, finally got
to Italy, had to engage the Italians who were natives in warfare, and finally killed the great
champion of the Italians, Ternus, and was then able to found settlements that became the Roman
Bicenter, and he married and founded a dynasty, and it led according to Virgil to Julius Caesar
and Augustus, and the beginning of the Gileo-Claudian line, and this was a magnificent accomplishment.
It was done in Latin, but rewriting Greek narratives, and the point was to say that the
empire was a great success, and it had divine supervision, Jupiter or Zeus, and promise to Venus,
thanks to the Aphrodite, the mother of Aeneas, that her son would found this dynasty, and it would
have a rule forever, and it would install peace and prosperity, and actually Virgil
read some of his books to Augustus in order to get the approval, and it became a big success.
It was the most important piece of literature for giving Roman identity, a huge success,
and it still is among the world classics. Luke is writing early in the second century,
and that's after the Gileo-Claudian line had come to an end with Nero, and Luke is writing
probably under the atrogen, and a number of people, a number of poets, rewrote the Aeneid
in order to make it apply to the period after the fall of the Gileo-Claudian line,
because it's clear that that empire, that dynasty was not going to last forever,
and it wasn't very good at world peace in the second century either, and Luke is trying to say
that the Christian movement is a different kind of kingdom, with a different kind of king,
and a different kind of rule, and he's going to write a story about the expansion of the
Christian tradition to set the church up as a rival to the Roman empire. So one of my books
that unfortunately costs $114 and still doesn't have a review, because it's so expensive, either
an Amazon or a public review, or an academic review, is Luke and the Politics of Homeric
Imitation. Luke is aware of the Homeric imitations of Virgil, and he wants to have imitations of his
own, starting in the gospel, but then exploding in the Acts of the Apostles, and there are about
30 episodes of imitation in the Aeneid that reappear with different interpretations in Luke
Acts. So that's an incredible number, and it must mean that there's a connection between them. So
let me give you some examples. Luke Acts and the Aeneid are both stories of a minority that is
expanding a kingdom that is going to end up in Rome or Italy. It requires a journey that has
a shipwreck, it has divine guidance, if there is an alternative to the kingdom, there is struggle,
and in the end there's the inclusion in the Aeneid of both native Italians and the Trojans,
under Aeneas, and at the end of the Acts of the Apostles there's a piece between Gentiles and Jews
so that they become in the same community. So when we say that Luke Acts does not have history,
that should, I mean it has historical sources, we talked about Josephus, we talked about Paul's
letters, and no doubt he had other texts. I would say Bapius's expositions. There are a lot of
examples of overlaps there. But the reason he offers writing fiction is he's not trying to
tell people the truth about history. He's not trying to convince them that these are actual events.
He's trying to tell probably his Christian readers that their kingdom is going to satisfy the goals
of the Augustan age, even better than Augustus and Aeneas were able to. In order to do that,
Luke is not only imitating Greek poetry, the Illidmi Odyssey, and the Bacchai by the way,
but also he makes Paul into a philosopher. So Paul goes to Athens, he talks about the unknown God,
he gives philosophical defenses of his position and the Christian message before authorities,
just as Socrates does to the Athenians in his Apology. And this is a big move because Aeneas
himself was anything but a philosopher. He was a good warrior, he was a good leader,
he was pious Aeneas, he was, that is, faithful and religiously faithful Aeneas, and so was Paul,
but Aeneas was not a philosopher. And Luke makes Jesus a philosopher like Socrates, he makes Paul
a philosopher of sorts. And so the function of the fiction is a political alternative to the Aeneid.
Now, I'm not the only person who has made that argument. And it's been an argument that's been
made on the one hand by a classicist and another by a biblical scholar. And so my work is very
much taken with their analysis. What makes my work different is that I think I've found
exactly what the passages are in the Iliad and the Odyssey and the Bacchai and Plato that were
imitated. And they're the same passages in about 30 instances that Virgil had identified.
And so it is competitive memesis. So some people think that unless the acts of the apostles is
historical, it's useless. My attitude is if it was historical, it would have been useless for Luke's
purpose. Because Luke is interested in having a foundation mythology for his community to say that
we need not be cowed by Roman power. We can be friendly competitors. And in fact, the kingdom of
God is going to be a more satisfactory kingdom than the kingdom of the Romans. So it's friendly to
Rome, but it's also agonistic or competitive with Rome. It is not history in the way we think.
It has historical information. Paul is a historical character and the author knows
something about Paul because of the letters. The issues with Roman power is similar to what
one finds in Josephus. So those are historical. But most of the narratives are not. They're
generated from imitation of Greek poetry that is competitive with the poetry of the Aeneid.
And it's really quite a brilliant move. And whereas Aeneid, Virgil, was interested in
imitating Harlem and Morris, mostly, although the Euribid is Vakar to some extent. Paul becomes also
the new Dionysus and has the prison break and so on. But Paul is the new Socrates. He's a Christian
Socrates. And so in that case, he's better than Aeneas. And that's why this book that's so expensive
and nobody buys is called Luke and the Politics of Homeric Imitation. So the book is more valuable
as fiction than it is as history. So some people think that when I say that the acts of the apostles
is not history, what I would like to say is that's right. It's not history as you think of it. It has
historical kernels the same way that the Aeneid has historical kernels in it. But just as Virgil
wrote a narrative mythology for the Roman Empire, Luke is imitating that and imitating
the Homeric epics to portray the the Christian movement as competitive. Now one of the places
where this becomes most obvious is at the end of the Acts of the Apostles where we find this
fantastic shipwreck story and it's told in the first person plural. We did this and we had to swim
to shore and we were all saved and we ended and so on. It's right out of the Odyssey and that's how
the Aeneid begins. Aeneas and his flotilla leave Troy and they're trying to get to a different shore
because actually in the in the end they want to return to Italy where the Adonis had come from
one of their ancestors and they get a shipwreck and that's why they end up in northern Africa at
Carthage. So the shipwreck stories match each other. They name the winds and they tell you what the
view is going on and it's so obvious and other interpreters have seen including the conservative
FF Bruce says this is an all-americ story of the shipwreck. So is it historical? No. Is it wonderful?
Yes. So what we have unfortunately in fundamentalism is the wrong hermeneutic for understanding
narrative. Narratives need not be historical and revealed in order to be insightful and exciting.
So that's basically the thesis of these books that I've written in the past and it's
consolidated in volume two in Synopses of Epic Tragedy and the Gospels.
