Some, at least, magicians, claim to be able to control nature.
That they could bring down the moon from the sky.
That they could cause an eclipse.
That they could cause it to rain, or not to rain.
About the kinds of things that we find in, say, in Jewish writings,
anybody would have classified as magic outside of Judea.
Jesus does things like, you know, He's playing in the mud,
making these, like, pigeons, and mama comes out and says,
Jesus, He's getting dirty!
And so He claps His hands and makes the birds fly away to dispose of the evidence.
He gets mad at one of His playmates and curses him.
He dies, and then He raises him back to life.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Are you ready for the magic show?
Because I am.
Today, Dr. Christopher Stanley is joining me today.
Christopher D. Stanley, thank you again for joining us here at MythVision.
Happy to be here today.
I'm happy too.
You know, I thought maybe He's bringing a clown outfit,
or He's going to do some David Blaine tricks in front of us.
I don't know, you know, I never know.
So, ladies and gentlemen, go check out His books.
As Slave Story is a trilogy right now,
you can also go to the link in the description on Amazon to find these books,
or go to the website that's in the description,
as well as get His other books on Paul.
We're going to be dealing with that in our next episode,
where we're actually taking a deeper dive into Paul's literature,
and what is he saying, what's going on with this guy,
and what is he trying to tell us,
or at least tell the people he's writing to,
and we're reading these letters.
So, I hope you go and support Check Out His Work.
He also has that on Audible, so you can listen to the Slave Story,
which is crampacked with actual factual historical data.
So, it's not like it's just a fictional story,
like actual scholars have looked at it and said,
hold on, this is actually very close,
if not identical to what it would have looked like.
And when he doesn't have absolute facts,
because history is probability,
he kind of fills in those gaps,
and a lot of the scholars are going,
wow, that actually makes a lot of sense,
and I can go with the flow.
So, if you really want to look into our past,
and you're someone like me who wants to understand history,
this is a book I think it's really worth diving into.
So, please, go check out the trilogy, the series.
You're just now waiting on the third one to be published,
and so we can have all three and have fun.
Actually, I haven't started writing the third one yet.
That's my project for this year, so.
Okay, so what was the book you just sent off?
Yeah, the one that I just sent off was the academic book
on Paul and his Clepias, the Greco-Roman quest for healing.
And that's where I've got a lot of material
that we'll be talking about today about magic
in the ancient world.
I was mentioning earlier that when I was writing the novels,
I didn't know as much about the magic side as I do now,
as I worked out in the last year
in writing this other more academic book.
And so, while there are some elements in these novels
and the things we'll talk about today,
the more in-depth treatment of this we'll have to wait till,
I think my book is supposed to come out in September
from Bloomsbury, TNT Clark, in the Library of New Testament series.
This is Paul and his Clepias,
the Greco-Roman quest for healing and the mission to Paul.
Wow, go get it, because we've done an episode
teasing you on all that as well.
And I'm looking forward to reading that literature.
Also, consider joining the Patreon for MythVision.
You'll be seeing this first there.
Thank you for those who help support us
and keeping us alive and doing what we're doing.
I've got a lot of interviews that have not made it to the public yet
that are out there, and I really appreciate the support.
Now, let's talk about magic.
I guess the best way to start this is, Dr. Stanley,
what is it?
I mean, when we think of magic, we think of David Blaine.
We think of these tricksters or sleight of hand,
and they're literally paid actors to do the very thing.
They want you to think what they did is real,
but usually there's some stunt or something,
and it entertains us.
What is magic in the ancient world?
Yeah, there suddenly were people in the ancient world
who did the kind of tricks,
kind of public performance entertainment shows
of the type that you might find with David Blaine.
David Blaine or David Copperfield or whoever.
In fact, one of the things that I've learned recently
you didn't notice is that the old balls under the cups deal
goes actually back to our earliest evidence of that.
It goes back to around the time of Jesus in Rome.
So it's interesting to see it may be older than that,
depending on how you interpret a particular painting
from ancient Egypt to the tomb there.
But yeah, people were doing things like that,
and we can say some later about maybe what some of those things were.
But the term magic as it's used in the ancient world
really doesn't particularly relate so much to those things
as it does to a formal practice
that was seeking to manipulate supernatural powers
to benefit individuals in the ancient world.
So by our modern terms, magic for the Greek word magia
was in a sense a form of religion.
Today we would try to draw fine lines
between what's religion and what's magic.
And for example, when you have new age healers
with crystals or whatever.
Well, is that religion or is that magic
or is it something else?
But in the ancient world, very much the core of the idea here
is engaging with supernatural powers.
Magic had a bad name in the ancient world
according to our authors who are elite urban males
whose power and authority is being threatened
by these more popular expressions of religion
that go by in the name of magia.
Our word magic actually comes from this Greek word magia.
Let me say a quick word about the history of the concept
and then we can get into the actual practices
because it's important for understanding something about why
basically the term the word magic or magia
was kind of a smear term that was used by educated elites
to refer to certain types of practices that they didn't like.
Those all the way back to the time of the earliest use
of this term is in the 6th, 5th century BC with the Persians.
And they have these religious experts
who traveled with them giving oracles
for when the army should act or not,
probably sacrifices and offerings,
basically doing religious kinds of things.
And the Persians were the great enemies of the Greeks
and most people may know something vaguely from their history
about battles between the Greeks and the Persians,
the Battle of Thermopylae and might have seen the movie,
some of the movies about that kind of thing.
But to use a term that was associated with the Persians
was kind of like in the 1950s and 60s calling somebody a commie.
It was like taking a term that was popular out there
that was associated with an enemy and then just saying,
this, that and the other, that's those copies
and that's those copy practices.
And so magia derives from these priests were called magi
or we would say magi, magi.
And so the term magia or the practitioner is a magas
comes from this kind of a smear term from the applied to the Persians.
So when it was used by the Persians,
it wasn't anything like what we know of as magic,
but that came to be applied by the educated elites to practices they didn't like.
In essence, if we go back to, and again,
I'm not going to get you too much in the detail here,
but go back to Plato.
Plato had two criticisms of the kinds of things that he
and others like him despise that one was they were working outside
of the established civic cult.
One of the big differences between the ancient world
and our modern conception of religion is we think of religion
as an individual phenomenon, you know,
my personal spirituality or something like that.
That kind of view of religion was very uncommon in the ancient world.
Religion was a matter of the people and their God.
Some of your listeners may be familiar with this with the idea
and the Jewish scriptures or the Christian Old Testament
Yahweh having a covenant with the people of Israel
and how he deals with them as a whole, not so much as individuals.
Well, the same was true in Greek and Roman world,
where the local city or the empire, in the case of the Romans,
would have a patron deity or deities.
And the basically kind of religion is expected to go through them.
You need to pay due homage to that.
And the local religious cult is run by civic officials.
There's no such thing as a separation of church and state
of religion and politics in the ancient world.
It's all very much intertwined.
And so when you did have people who were kind of offering,
in essence, what these people who came to be smeared
as Maggi were doing is they're saying,
we're going to work outside of the cult
to address the needs of individuals.
And we can do sacrifices and incantations and spells
and all kinds of activities.
We can talk about what some of those activities were in a minute
to channel the power either of the gods that everybody believed in
or these kind of numerous powers,
ill-defined supernatural entities to do good or harm for people.
And that's one of the things, again, we can unpack in a minute,
that Maggia was basically like religion about receiving benefits
and avoiding harms.
And so in ancient Greek and Roman religion,
the essence of it was an exchange of benefits,
which was really based in the way their societies worked.
You had a hierarchical society where you had the patron,
who was the rich guy, you had benefits to supply,
and then that person had clients who were attached to him
and usually at him, and they would do services for him
and he would provide benefits for them.
And so the idea is this established system
of exchanging benefits back and forth that keeps society working.
And they said, oh, well, that's how it is with the gods too.
And so we offer sacrifices and offerings to the gods
because we want to have a good harvest
or because we want to get this epidemic to leave us,
or whatever the case may be.
Just to emphasize this for people who are thinking biblically,
blessings and curses.
And then also salvation in the Hebrew Bible
carries a completely different connotation
than what we find in the Greco-Roman world
in the first century in Christianity.
So the definition, you see the same word maybe being used?
Salvation, salvation.
But you talk about from harm,
there's physical, literal, here in this world things
that they're trying to be saved from.
And I think that that's also the difficulty
with doing this podcast is sometimes the terms and ideas
and this background that you're actually trying to build
for our audience to understand where you're coming from,
we're trying to put the Bible for a second
or at least the New Testament on the sidelines
for one second while you build this up,
then we'll get to what maybe we're looking at
in the New Testament.
Because if they don't understand this, what are they thinking?
David Blaine?
Or are they thinking like, what are they thinking?
They don't really know maybe with background.
And even just to carry that a step further
and anticipate a little bit, the idea, the word grace
that's used in the New Testament.
The word grace is very heavily embedded
and you don't often hear this in Christian circles.
That is the primary term that's used in Greek
for the benefits that the patron gives to the client.
And then, you know, Christian tradition,
you've had this theological problem of,
well, if God's grace is so abundant toward us,
then what, you know, where do works fit in?
Ancient Romans and Greeks would have no problem with that
because when the patron does acts of chorus
for the clients, the clients are obligated
to provide services to the patron.
And if they don't do that,
then they are violating the relationship.
So it was just everybody understood that grace
on the part of the patron led to works
on the part of the recipients.
You just like destroyed so many Protestant sections.
So, I mean, this is all just assumed in here
because everybody knew this.
And the same was true with regards to God's.
You know, the gods do provide material benefits for humans
for crops, for health, healthy children, et cetera.
And then you provide back to them the sacrifices and offerings.
So that was kind of the established cultist system.
And that seems common sense.
Exactly.
But there were then these people who worked outside of that system.
A woman named Heidi Wint has written a great book
called At the Temple Gates.
She classified these people together with a very helpful term,
as freelance religious experts.
There were people who claimed to have certain kind of expertise
that they could bring to the benefit of individuals,
but they were freelance.
That is, they worked outside of the established cultists.
That is the religious system associated with the authorities,
the elites, the educated people.
They managed this religious system.
So, in essence, we might say that Mangea is the religion
of the masses.
Although that's a bit of an under,
a bit of an over generalization because the elites also took
advantage of some of these Magi.
I'm trying to avoid the word magician because that brings to us,
our minds, things like, you say, like David Blaine and whatever.
It might be better to say magic workers or something like that.
But even then, the terms are really difficult
because we've got all these modern connotations
that just don't apply to the ancient world.
So, Mangea is the practice of what we would call magic
and the Magas is the one who actually is the practitioner
and Magi or Magi is the plural of that.
So, that's kind of a quickie nutshell that could be unpacked much more.
I haven't said anything yet about what kinds of techniques they used,
how they were similar to and different from the established religions.
But fundamentally, this might be,
at least get us oriented into the subject
and some of the things they did were very much like
what other religious people did, offerings and sacrifices, etc.
And some of the things they did were uniquely their own,
that were novel developments.
So, let me pause for a moment and let you jump in here.
Yeah, no, this is, it makes me really want to get into
some of the examples in the broader world
before we get into the biblical one on, you know,
what do we mean by magic?
You're talking about manipulating spirits.
You're talking about powers that be.
And the interesting thing is we're dealing with,
we're going to be getting into the Judeo-Christian world.
They did this too.
In fact, their patron was Solomon and he manipulated spirits too.
They had no problem with this.
Even though they were what we call monotheist,
there were powers and spirits and stuff roaming everywhere.
So, there's this idea and I know from the version of Christianity I came from,
I thought things were filled with spirits all the time.
In fact, I was so cautious about cussing,
because they called it cursing.
And if you said a curse word, you might bring curses on it.
Like this is the kind of mindset that I had.
And I imagine if I was to be fair,
that would be something of a sort that they might have.
Exactly.
I mean, curses and love potions.
I mean, it wasn't while my book,
I focused particularly on the healing side of things,
but we can get into if you like.
Also, some of the other things in terms of the power of words,
it was believed to be able to be effective when they were spoken or written
in all kinds of ways.
Kind of like something close to what we popular imagination calls voodoo dolls
that you would use to cause harm to other people,
but also various rituals you could use to make somebody fall in love with you
or to succeed in your athletic contest or to make more money.
Again, as he's mentioned earlier, very material.
This worldly benefits.
Maybe just to pick up on the analogy I said earlier to the social system,
the normal operation of the system would be the patron gives, the clients respond.
And that would be an akin to the civic cultist.
But you can also imagine the client who says,
watch what I can do to get this patron to do what I want
and would learn how to manipulate the patron by certain actions,
certain kinds of words, certain ways of bothering them, et cetera.
And in a way, that would be mageya.
This is manipulating the powers without working through
the normal system.
I bet it'd be very difficult to really completely understand
being as far removed as we are to really completely understand
what their mind was thinking and how they were doing this.
But you're getting me closer to wanting to get into those details.
So we know there's curses. There's love. There's potions.
Let me win this race. Help me find my car keys.
I'm just using an example.
I'll give you some examples of the kinds of things
that would fit in the category of mageya.
When it comes to healing, you know, there were certain,
as in every culture, there were plants that people used,
animal substances, a host of things like this,
very much part of Greek and Roman traditional medicine.
But there were ways that professional magicians
and magical healers had, in a sense, enhancing those powers.
And they would do things like, you know, they would,
they believed that certain plants had spirits associated with them
that gave them great power.
And you had to know the right rituals to use in picking that plant
or it could harm you or it could harm other people.
And so things like, I mean, just to, so many different things.
When you would go out to plant picket, you might need to pick it at night.
And it might need to be a full moon.
You might need to be naked when you do it.
Draw circles around it with a particular metal implement.
Pick it a certain way.
Maybe put offerings into the ground to that spirit in the hole
that you pulled the plant out of.
Maybe hold it up above you or do something with it.
And then all these different kind of rituals were meant to contain
and control the power that they believed resided in the plant.
So that then when a drug seller who also could do things with incantations
and spells to give them more power,
by the time that medicine reaches the public market,
it is imbued, they believe, with all of this supernatural power
that would then, by taking this, you're not just taking something
that has chemical properties.
You're taking something that has the essence of the divine
in that particular plant.
This makes me so badly wish I could find the origin of women
and maybe women, because women probably did this.
Women did this as well.
It makes me really want to anthropologically,
if I could go back in our history as humans,
what dots did we connect to think that that's what it did?
You see what I'm trying to get at?
I'll give you an analogy and then just to kind of get you where I'm coming from.
Way back before writing, a lot of scholars talk about how we were oral
and not written so we didn't know how to compartmentalize things the same way.
And what that means is like, we know how to think about a subject
because we're writing, we're literary and we put it in our brain in a certain shelf
and we can start separating things.
As oral people, we connected dots that may not have connected.
As an example, every year during spring,
like it's about to be spring here soon,
the star Venus would rise and they would always connect and say,
that star brought the power of life.
It is divine.
It has the power to bring life.
And like today, maybe modern science might say,
like, well, this is what stars do and every year is a coincidence
that Venus comes up when it's springtime
and here we have agriculture starting to grow, et cetera, et cetera.
But in the ancient world, those dots connected,
it makes me wonder what made them think, if I'm naked,
and if I go here and I draw the circle and there's a spirit in that plant,
what connection, like when did that start and how?
Yeah, I mean, one of the things that's so hard for us to imagine ourselves
into the ancient world and into the past,
not just Greeks and Romans, but elsewhere too,
is that we are so much the products of the Enlightenment
and the 17th century, et cetera,
where we essentially divorced the divine from the natural world.
And even prior to that, of course,
Christianity and Judaism and Islam see goddess,
both involved in this world, but also kind of above it.
But throughout most of human history,
it's just hard for us to imagine essentially how frail
and helpless humans were in the face of the forces of nature
and when you get your living off of agriculture or hunting,
you are very much at the mercy of these natural forces,
which you don't understand.
And so as far back as humans are,
as you know anything about human thought and practice,
there seems to have been an attribution of all these
unexplained and uncontrollable things as some kind of,
well, we might use the word divine or supernatural.
Those are problematic terms
because supernatural implies that there's a category of nature
and then there's something above and outside of that.
But throughout much of human history,
the spirits, whatever you want to call them,
we're seen as being imminent in this world
and even localized in certain places.
So even with the Greeks and Romans,
you can have a nymph or a dryad who lives in this pond
or in this tree or whatever the case may be.
And anything that seems kind of scary in some way
would be associated with gods and powers.
And the Romans just saw gods and spirits everywhere.
Thousands have got much like in India today
where they say they're like 3 million gods or something like that.
And so, you know, to situate yourself in a world
where the divine or the spirit everywhere,
you live surrounded by them, as you said earlier.
And so then one of you, if you take that as your starting point,
then it becomes just totally natural.
You want to say, okay, how do I get these powers
to help me and not harm me?
Because again, these powers aren't necessarily good.
They're not necessarily favorably disposed to human beings.
And so you want to be able to channel the ones that want to help you
and have got the most power to benefit you
and you want to do things to keep away the others.
And so rituals are the primary means by which that's done.
And so I mentioned some of the rituals around planting,
chants and spells and incantations
played a very important role in the activity of these maghia workers.
You know, I'll give you some examples of them in a moment,
but words we're seeing is having power,
that words can affect the supernatural and make it do things.
Cursing also will be part of that, that curses,
the spoken curses, written curses
will believe to actually affect what you wanted them to carry out.
The same thing with, you know, imbuing substances
such that you could make a potion or an amulet or something,
you could be put under a woman's pillow
or poured into her drink to make her fall in love with you.
Or get pregnant too, right?
Oh yeah, exactly. All kinds of practices.
Or to aid the delivery of a child.
Midwives use various kinds of what we call magical practices
around childbirth to try to ensure a smooth and healthy childbirth.
Children, special amulets were put on children.
Everybody in the ancient world, as I mentioned earlier,
wore amulets, some kind of it.
It might just be some plant substances or animal substances
that were seen as having heathen properties,
but the ones that were given by these magic workers
would be empowered with chance and incantations.
And they might be prepared out of certain substances
that were thought to have special power.
If it was something like a ring or a gem,
it might be carved with images of a god or a spirit.
Let's say, for example, one popular one
would have a god on a horse with a spear impaling a demon.
And by wearing that, you are kind of scaring away the demons,
if you will.
So all these kinds of things to avert just,
oh, and one thing I haven't mentioned, the evil eye.
I mean, everybody believed in the evil eye.
What's the evil eye?
You know when somebody looks at you like that?
Yeah.
There was genuinely believed, everybody believed at all levels
in society, that that could actually harm other people.
And you think that we have this modern scientific understanding
about the eye.
OK, how do the eyes work?
Well, you know, the eyes open, people open, and light comes in.
No, no, no.
That's not how vision works.
Not in the ancient world.
There are different ideas about how vision works.
The most common idea is eyes emit rays.
They emit fire, a certain kind of fire or light or something
that goes out and hits other things or people or whatever.
And then in some way, different ideas about how it reflects back
or merges with the fire and the air or something like that.
And so they believe that people literally emitted rays in their eyes.
And so you can see it's only one step from that to say,
when I look at you in that mean, glaring way,
I am actually sending the harmful power into you.
And so people had various rituals that they would use to avert that.
I mean, to hold your finger like this, it's called the thick gesture,
was a way of averting the evil eye or averting evil powers.
Spitting, somebody looked at you with the evil eye.
Spitting on the ground could avert the evil eye.
And there's actually a passage in Paul where that's probably one of the background
of what he's saying.
So, you know, it is such a completely different world than anything.
And one of the last things, exorcisms.
And now Greeks and Romans probably got the idea of exorcism from Jews.
It's not a Christian phenomenon.
Christians got it in Jews as well.
Jews are well known as exorcists in the ancient world.
It's also as well known as magicians.
But certainly in a lesser way, everybody believed in evil spirits
and their various rituals you can use to drive away evil spirits.
And that's what I've seen as possessing people, but troubling and annoying
and attacking people.
And so there are a lot of, let's call it apple-tropaic rituals that you could engage in.
Things to scare away or drive away the evil spirits that might be causing harm.
So these are just a smattering of the kinds of things that will fit in the category of magic
in the ancient world.
There's just people playing to have expertise in.
And I also have to add one more thing.
Some of these magicians claim to be able to control nature.
That they could bring down the moon from the sky.
That they could cause an eclipse.
That they could cause it to rain or not to rain.
Even that they could fly.
So now we're into like another realm entirely.
And we're claiming to have these supernatural powers.
And of course, healings come in there as well.
Just the ability to heal people.
And to use our, we're instantly miraculously, supernaturally, whatever you want to do.
So where do you want to go with this, Derek?
Yeah, so look, on our previous episode, you talked about how a lot of these things overlap.
Like healing is not just a magic thing, but also has its,
it's what we like to call medicinal side of things.
And oftentimes, oftentimes they overlap.
So, so I don't want to go there.
What I would like to do is maybe now that we have a background knowledge to some degree on how people thought.
And I mean, we're scratching this.
I can't imagine you, even with all you know, you're probably like, it gets pretty wild.
I'm not sure.
So my question is, how can we bring this into New Testament studies,
pertaining to Paul probably first, because it's a little difficult with him.
There's not as much narration going on.
It's more like this is, these are real letters written to real people.
And it's not so much like a narrated like acts or the gospels.
So maybe we deal with Paul on magic.
And what that means, since we talked about him not being technically a miracle worker,
maybe because it didn't work for him.
Who knows what the reason is.
You're very open minded.
That's what I love about you the most.
And then, and then we'll get into like, where we know they're talking about him being a magician or like they're claiming,
obviously derogatory wise, he cast out Bells above with bells above and like all of these weird phenomena,
the guy cutting himself in the gospel, things like this, what's going on here.
And then maybe we can even be a little critical.
I'd love to get your thoughts on Jesus, the magician, and why he, the author has caused people
to kind of not even be interested in investigating it anymore.
Maybe maybe give us pros and cons to what is brought by boys.
Yeah, there are a few practices.
Well, even if you go back to prior to Paul, it might be worth noting that Paul and Paul was a Jew,
and he was looking at the Jewish scriptures as his foundation.
And probably some of us, when we hear about magic,
will think, well, of course, Jews didn't do those things because there are these verses in the Old Testament that,
you know, condemn the performance of, you know, sorcery and witches are to be burned and are executed and things like this.
But interestingly, those passages, they're very vague.
They don't explain what they mean.
And none of them, as far as my particular interest, none of them relate to healing.
And so they developed this tradition in Judaism that if something brings about healing, it has to be okay.
But even in the Old Testament, you find people doing things that certainly look to us to be magical types of practices.
We've got the story of using mandrakes with Rachel and Leah to be able to get pregnant.
There is a story of Isaiah healing Ezekiah by putting a particular substance on him that doesn't seem to have a medicinal value.
There's Naaman to be go bathed in the Jordan River that doesn't really seem very medicinal as well.
And we could go on and on, lots of other examples.
Some things that even are manipulating sacred objects to access divine power.
Like the situation where a woman is falsely accused or is accusing his wife of adultery.
And so she has to go through this ritual where they do this scroll and they burn it.
And then she's got to drink the ashes with it.
And if she dies, well, she was guilty.
Or you're consulting the Urim and Thumman for abdication, casting lots.
A lot of things that we would define as magical are there in the Bible itself.
Not to mention Jesus.
So I say that as a bit of a background for Paul that we can't necessarily presume because he was a Jew with any problem with any of these kind of things.
Right, right.
In Paul's case, there aren't many references that would fit what we would think of as magic, but there are a few.
The most probably the best known one could be in 1 Corinthians 5 where he talks about this guy who is engaged in adultery or has sex with his father's wife or whatever.
Perhaps his stepmother and he says in 1 Corinthians 5, beginning with verse 3, for the absent in body, magicians claim to be able to leave their bodies astral projection, like I say today.
I am present in spirit.
And as if present, I've already pronounced judgment in the name of the Lord Jesus on the man who has done such a thing.
When you are assembled and my spirit is present with the power of the Lord Jesus, we need to take that very literal kind of a way that he believes his spirit can be present at a distance like this.
You are to hand this man over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.
It's kind of a cursing.
And he also uses curse language in Galatians 1 where he says, if anybody preaches to you a gospel other than I have, let him be accursed.
Actually, that's a tone down of it in Greek.
He says, let him be damned.
God damn those people who are preaching something contrary to what I did.
And at the end of 1 Corinthians 16, there's this word maranatha.
If anyone letting someone is not claiming, acknowledging Jesus, let him be cursed.
That's in 1 Corinthians 13?
1 Corinthians 16.
Okay.
Yeah.
Let anyone be accursed to has no love for the Lord.
Come our Lord.
Maranatha is to come our Lord.
But if they don't have no love for the Lord, let him be accursed.
He literally means cursing, you know, and the curses have power.
He's not just saying, well, God one day condemned that person to hell or something like that.
A less clear passage in Galatians 3, Paul says, you foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you?
This is a standard language of the Greek word he uses here.
It has to do with casting a spell.
He's using the idea that somebody has cast a spell on you.
And he talks about, there are these few references in Paul.
But again, I think Paul, I mean, you could even, once you've got those things, then one can also see other things in Paul that at least could have been seen by outsiders as having magical quality.
This weird language in 1 Corinthians 15, at least 29, about the Corinthians who are being baptized for the dead.
They're actually, again, in magical circles, the idea that you could use certain things that would affect the fate of the dead and Hades.
And of course, later on, we have ideas of Catholics and purgatory and what you can do in this world to affect their fate.
It's hard to know what's going on with that language, but it certainly sounds kind of magical.
Jesus, look, the very language about a spirit dwelling in oneself, a spirit of a dead man dwelling in one.
What is sounded magical to a lot of people?
Yeah.
You know, if I may, things that might have caused people to look at Paul as a magician.
And of course, as I said in our last broadcast, even though Paul is a miracle worker himself, he does claim that acts of power of some type occurred in conjunction with his preaching.
Was that healings and exorcisms? Was that something else we don't know?
But Paul certainly was, there were elements of what Paul was saying and doing that could well have made him look like one of these magic workers in the eyes of at least some people.
Two things just to bring up to get your thoughts on.
Baptism of the dead is obviously one, even in Christians today, like, what?
But baptism, period.
And that was what I was going to ask you.
There seems to be some magic there going on because your water supposed to wash away something, your renewed person.
Are you buried with Christ?
This seems like the traditional water washing that you would have expected normal to.
There's like a special version of it for Christianity and being buried with Christ and stuff.
There's something very strange.
Even Christians today, though, recognize it as I'm especially immersed versions where there's people who argue, is it sprinkling?
Is it this?
You know, there's all sorts of that in the Greek.
Is it the baptism?
Whatever, whatever the particular term might mean.
The point is you're going down, you're coming up.
It's like being buried and resurrecting with Jesus.
And the second thing I wanted to say was, isn't sacrifice period magical?
Because the idea that this animal's blood will cause somehow either good things for you or remove your sins, you know, different things might be the case.
But the animal's blood magic does something for us.
So baptism and sacrifice, if you could comment on those just real quick.
And what you're getting at is kind of something I said earlier.
You really can't draw a line in terms of the practices between religion and magic in the ancient world.
They did a lot of the same kind of things, even spells and incantations in the power of words.
I mentioned, I think, in our last conversation that in Roman public rituals, and this is like the civic ritual,
they had to say all the words exactly right for the ritual to have effect.
And if the priest screwed up on any word or gesture or something, they had to start all over because it would not have the power.
So yes, religion itself in the Greek and Roman world was very much about using rituals to interact with the divine realm.
And so the difference is not so much along those lines.
The difference is, A, is the person part of the civic cult or they are freelance expert who's going off and kind of doing things on their own for ordinary people.
And B, are they doing any of these other kind of, well, they would have been,
the elite should have given us weird kinds of practices that were not part of the civic cult.
So those, and again, for they use the word cult here, I should clarify for your audience, this is a term scholars use for ritualized worship.
So it's not a cult in the sense that we use the word today, a weird little group or something like that.
So when Christians come together and take the Lord's Supper, that would also be called by religious scholars a Christian cult or cultus.
So I'm using the term civic cult in that sense, not in the sense of some odd little group with weird practices and expecting the end of the world to come soon or something like that.
I have a funny clip just to show you when you said the priest in particular.
If they get the words wrong, actually you've made this the other day. I'll just play the intro to show you.
Okay.
Wait a minute. The words, right, right, right. Say the words.
Classu Marata.
Hey, wait a minute. Everything's full.
Anyway, I just thought it was funny because it's right in the vape like if you ever seen Army of Darkness, that's the name of it.
It's a classic. It's hilarious. He's like told these three words by this magician.
I don't know if it's Merlin or who the guy is. And he's like, you must remember these words.
He's like, I got it, man. I got it. Then he gets to you and he's like, I don't, he couldn't remember.
So he's like, Guato, Marata, and then the dead actually hear him mess up the last word.
So it's exactly what you're saying.
You know, while we're on that, I can't resist this.
I mentioned to you earlier that the word abracadabra actually comes from ancient Greek magic.
And let me just, there are some documents called the, the PGM papyrus graiki maliki or the Greek magical papyri that we have that contain all kinds of these spells, etc.
They date from around the second century BC to maybe the fourth and fifth century AD.
I'll just give you just some examples of some of these things.
Here's how you can become invisible.
It says a tested spell for invisibility and great work.
Take an eye of an ape or of a corpse that has died in violent death and a plane of peony.
And as you're rubbing them from the right to the left, say the following spell.
I am a newbis.
I am Osir Frey.
I am Osat Saranurye.
I am Osiris whom Seth destroyed.
Rise up, infernal demon.
Ayo erbeth, io phobeth, top, pecarbeth, io apops.
Whatever I order you to do, be obedient to me.
And if you wish to become invisible, rub just your face with the concoction and you will be invisible for as long as you wish.
And if you wish to be visible again, move from west to east and say this name and you will be obvious invisible to all men.
Just randomly, I'll read you a couple of others just to give you samples.
Let's see.
Some of them are really, really long and you've got these drawings, things you're supposed to do and all kinds of rituals.
Here's a calling of God.
Come hither to me.
You who are in control of the form of Helios, the sun god.
You the cat-faced god.
And behold your form being mistreated by your opponent so that you may revenge yourself upon them and accomplish the deed.
Calling the spirit.
Conjuring you by your names.
Barbahtiyao, Mayanshao, Naibahara.
I can't even pronounce these things, you know.
By reciting these, what we would call, you know, nonsense syllables.
These are actually seen as having power to affect the supernatural realm and to bind the evil, the good spirits to help you or to bind the evil spirits away.
These things are here for cursing, for healing, for love potions, for success.
It just goes on and on and on and on.
If I may, this begs me to ask you.
I used to speak in tongues, okay?
I used to be, like, filled with the spirit.
You speak in tongues and I'm not knocking it.
I get why.
There's some satisfaction even when you're singing in tongues at church and things like that.
People on the outside go, what a weirdo.
But either way, Paul spoke in tongues more than everybody.
He mentions in one passage, you know, way better than me, but he talks about speaking in tongues, build your faith.
Is this magical?
Does he think that the words of the tongues of angels, this idea that it's angelic speech, almost like what we see with sibling oracles and stuff like that?
Is this something magical, you think?
I don't think I would put that in that category for this reason that Paul describes that as a form of prayer in 1 Corinthians 14.
And as you say, we have kind of communing with God and nurturing your own inner spirit.
You're not trying to recite magical phrases to bring supernatural powers under your control.
So I don't think I would put that.
It's closer to what actually, where we have examples of things like speaking in tongues outside of Christian circles, it's usually more accompanied with oracles.
And prophecy, and it's no accident that those two were linked also in Paul.
Dale Martin, who we talked about earlier, wrote a great article a number of years ago, and I don't have the reference, but I remember it has Glossolavia in the title.
And he deals with brings out all these examples from other sources that have to do with things like speaking in tongues.
So that might be a place to look.
Dale B. Martin, and if you look up with Glossolavia, probably pops up online somewhere.
It's an academic article, but it's very good at pulling together all these data.
OK, we did Paul and Paul could we could go more exhaustive, but we don't have all day.
So shifting into the literature that people would critical scholars would say, OK, Paul is our like our best material that we can trust is actually real.
Like what is actually going on instead of possibly being literary, which means, is this what's really going on?
Is this what really happened?
Either way, let's just grant reading these that this is what happened or this is what was happening.
Acts is a little later.
Gospels are a little earlier, it seems.
What's going on in here?
Jesus is seen as a magician.
It's usually in a derogatory term.
And while we get into Jesus and acts of the Apostles, I want to make one mention that I think is interesting in the law of the Tanakh.
And the idea is to not do witches like witches and magic or it seems like it's like this condemnation of incantations and this and this and that.
This seems like an if you're doing things outside what we say is acceptable, you're in trouble.
So you need to follow our practices and doesn't mean they didn't believe in these weird ideas that we think are weird today.
But that they were saying, don't do this thing.
So here's Jesus.
He's doing things according to the gospels like casting out demons and healings even things like that.
How does that fit into this whole thing and the early church and magic?
Yeah, that's a kind of complicated one to try to answer and I'll try to be somewhat brief on it.
Back in 1978, Morton Smith wrote a book called Jesus the Magician.
He was a scholar who was very quirky in a lot of his works and he basically pulled in anything and everything possibly be associated with defining Jesus as a magician.
And virtually everyone who's come after him has said that he tended to distort a lot of the evidence.
And it really kind of poisons the well in some respects for academic discussions of Jesus as a magician until perhaps more recent times.
I think that when when part of the problem with defining whether Jesus is a magician or not is that he doesn't fit the he doesn't do many of the kinds of things that magicians did.
So if you look in the in the through the gospels, the only examples of things that would be like what ancient magicians did for healing would be when he is putting mud on the guy's eyes or spitting on the guy's eyes or, you know,
pronouncing words that seem to be nonsensical for young just a handful of instances like that.
And of course the exorcisms in the sense that exorcism was a practice that was associated with with magic workers and such as that, but it wasn't necessarily because again Jews were very well known as exorcists also.
It's hard to find much that would there are elements that would be similar to magical practice, but there's not a lot of things about him don't fit what we would typically think of.
However, having said that, he still the stories about him were read by ancient people who were not sympathetic to Christianity is, whoa, there's a magician.
And we know that because Oregon in the second century church father is against Calces.
Calces is this Greek critic Christianity and Calces is describing Jesus as a magician and Oregon is having to say, well, no, he's not. Here's why we know fourth century, Augustine and Eusebius are still responding to charges by
non sympathetic Greeks or Romans that Jesus is a magician. And so having said what I said, the fact that we have clear evidence that people outside the Christian movement did look at these stories and say, hey, that's a magician.
And they saw that as a bad thing. Because again, keep in mind that maghia is a derogatory term when it appears in the writings of elite authors, you want to smear somebody.
Again, just like you wanted to call somebody a commie in the 50s or 60s or the way that Republicans like to smear every Democrat as a socialist today.
So similar kind of things.
Or vice versa and calling the Nazis or whatever. Yeah, exactly.
If I can just while we're on that what you're what you're saying here, if I was to try and like devil's advocate back in acts, there's this place where they call Simon, this magician, Simon Magan.
I'm sure you were going to get into this too. But my point is, isn't this is why I figured like sanctioned acceptable acts of what outsiders will call magic are technically magic to people who are on the outside.
But if you were on the inside, you wouldn't call it magic. You would just say, oh, no, that's normal. That's acceptable. That's good.
So technically, could Jesus be a magician by standards of the ancient world, but not technically, you know, if you were inside, you're not going to call him that you wouldn't say that.
Yeah, and it certainly again, the categories are very vague. Interestingly, nobody in the Gospels ever calls him a magician. You know, he's accused, as you mentioned earlier, of doing things by the power of Satan.
But it's not a term that Jews would have used. Jews are are described by other people as doing maghia.
Right. But the Jews themselves did not use that term. They didn't say, okay, I'm going to be a magical practitioner, whereas Greeks and Romans did actually, this is something you were trained in.
You could be trained for years in apprenticeship to a practicing magic worker. And they often had secret books if they were able to read and write that contain their spells and things like that.
So in that sense, the kind of sociocultural reality of being a maghaz meant going through training to learn the arcane secrets of the particular kind of practice that you were engaging in, what kind of school or branch or type of magic you were performing.
And so there's no evidence that that Jews did that or that Jesus did that. And so and yet, does that mean they are not don't fit that category? As we say, outsiders would put them in.
Right.
We could have a long conversation here about, and I could give you some brief examples if you wanted to, about the kinds of things that we find in saying Jewish writings that anybody would have classified as as magic outside of Judaism.
But Jews didn't, you know, use that term to describe what they were doing. They didn't have a system of training, neither did the early Christians. And yet they engaged in and copied continue the practices they'd engaged in prior to becoming Christ followers of wearing amulets using spells and incantations and a host of other kinds of things that were carried over from their pre Christian days.
So getting into acts, because this is going to take us a little later. I think acts is dated later. I really put it in the second century, just based on the scholars I've been hearing back and forth, at least after 93, because it seems he's aware of Josephus's writing, his final writing.
So in acts, you have this guy named Simon Magus who wants to, hey, man, I'll pay you for that. Give me the Holy Spirit. And they're like, nah, nah, you know what, curse you, Peter says or something. He dams him. And it's like, whoa.
Makes him blind, yeah.
Where we go again with Paul, right? And this idea of like damning someone, but it even is a curse. And my question is, this guy Simon shows up even in Second Temple, or Second Temple, Second Century literature.
There's this conflict going on. And this guy plays some significant role in certain groups, it seems. Tell us more about Simon the Magician, Simon the Magi, if you will, or Magus.
And how that works with early church.
Yeah, there's not something I'm too expert on, but I can say a little bit. Yeah, he becomes, in later Christian tradition, the embodiment of these magical practices.
When I say Christians, we're doing these magical actions. The reason we know that is that these literate, some of them we can get from archaeology, but mostly from the fact that these elite male Christian leaders are trying to get them to stop it.
You know, they're constantly, you know, say, this is not right. And whenever you've got people criticizing, condemning something, you know, it's happening.
And so Simon becomes this, among the literati, he becomes a way of encapsulate in some circles, a way of encapsulating this personify these practices that you should avoid.
And there's a there's a document called the Acts of Peter, where there's this competition between Peter and Simon in Rome to one up one each other on performing magical acts.
And so Peter, of course, wins. And, and there are other texts to the pseudo Pumentines, and others where Simon comes into play. Now, does this mean the one thing that's unclear here, was there, in fact, a school of people, you know, honoring and venerating the Simon magas.
There seem to be some indications of that, but it's, it could just simply be a literary truck, you know, the creating this guy as the making him the head of as if there were were people following and when in fact is just taking a figure from the New Testament and using that as an emblem for things they don't like and want to criticize.
So I'm not so sure about that question, but at least at the literary level, he becomes a convenient way of embodying forbidden practices.
I just an interesting note for our audience you mentioned earlier, that some of these spells or these magicians claim to fly and here is this funny humorous thing where Peter and him are fighting and he's flying and he falls to his death.
So I love getting into this this really makes me just try to understand maybe how crazy some of the literature that comes later.
For example, Jesus being a little infant and turning their birds into like, like the impact, especially when more non Jews are entering the movement bringing a lot of the baggage like you're talking about maybe people who are really trained to be magicians and not Jews.
There might be this weird literature that starts to come on the scene that's more magical about Jesus.
And so the infancy gospel of Thomas for the sake of people we don't know, you got this little Jesus stories about Jesus from his childhood, because obviously we don't have those stories in the New Testament.
So people make them up and Jesus does things like, you know, he's, he's playing the mud and making these like pigeons and mama comes out and says, Jesus, he getting dirty.
And so he claps his hands and makes the birds fly away to dispose of the evidence.
He gets mad at one of his playmates and curses him and he dies and then he raises him back to life again.
And so, you know, on and on stories like this, and I think you're right that I mean, I wouldn't, I would not want to attribute that to people trained in Margherita.
It's in the atmosphere, it's in the mindset.
If this guy was indeed the kind of person we say he was, he must have been able to do these kinds of things, even as a child.
And, you know, so, so yeah, it's bringing elements of this kind of maybe you could see a magical mindset that would see these things as normal, as acceptable.
I mean, even the elites for somebody to reject Margherita entirely was rare, just like to be atheists was rare.
You know, elites thought these things were illegitimate, but they didn't think they were impossible.
They just thought they were could be used for wrongful ends.
In fact, there's a lot of fear, one thing we haven't talked about, talk about curses and this kind of thing, a lot of fear in the ancient world of magic being used to harm people.
And so, while there's not much legal action against Margherita, when it does occur, it's against harmful Margherita.
But then that may be whether they involve poisons or whether they've involved curses, causing magic to cause harm.
And again, everybody believed that magic was out there, could be used to call harm and cause harm.
In fact, Pliny the Elder, who's a great resource, Pliny the Elder's natural history from later first century is a wonderful, wonderful resource for all things magical.
He's kind of a compendium of all of a lot of this in some of the books in his work.
But he talks about everybody is worried about somebody being able to use words to cause damage to them,
or trying to gain some power through enchanting words or something like that.
So this was a very, wasn't just a fringe thing, something that even among the elites, they believed in all these kinds of things.
They just didn't, some of them used it.
They didn't actually practice it.
There's only a couple of examples that we have from our records that we meet people actually becoming, trying to become adept at a maghia.
But they certainly would use their services.
So I have one more question, and it's like, it's more like a statement slash question.
When I interviewed Delcy Allison Jr., we had a hoot.
He knows I'm a skeptic, you know, I'm like, I'm very cautious because there's so much of this going on.
It's very difficult to know if that, if any of this is real, how do you know between what is it and stuff?
There's a lot of that going on.
But this is my question.
I asked Del Allison, I said, sir, let's say, let's say that the tomb was empty with Jesus, right?
And this was his statement.
So this is kind of an interesting little discussion we had.
And I said, what would be the most probable if you put on your skeptic hat?
Like I forced him.
He's like, oh, well, if you want me to be a skeptic for a moment.
Okay.
And I said, if you were a skeptic for a moment and you just said, okay, I can't grant that a resurrection happened.
What would best explain the data in his terms?
And he said, he blew my mind.
This is what he said.
You're going to be like, what?
You might even agree.
I don't know.
He said that in that time, when someone was a holy man or very powerful person, the corpse was valuable to these magi, these people that would potentially use the dead bodies for incantations or potentially something of the sort.
He said that there's there's something with the dead body of someone who's like a sacred, powerful human being.
I don't know.
And he said, maybe they stole his body and would have used it or maybe used it for some type of ritual or something.
He said, that would be my best guess.
And I guess because of like the Nazareth inscription, he didn't say this.
I'm guessing like there's already these people like are messing with graves.
Maybe it's because they're just stealing things out of the graves, but there might be people really stealing corpses.
And he thought maybe that that would be the best guess that someone stole body for something like that.
And I personally don't even go that far.
I'm like, maybe there's other explanations, but it blew my mind that he said that.
What do you think about his thoughts there?
I'm not familiar with that.
I certainly bodily bodily substances, for example, gladiators, all kinds of things associated with gladiators.
They're sweat.
They're their blood and things like this were used.
And so after they're dead, that isn't thinking out loud here.
Human body parts were certainly used, but only at the fringe.
I mean, that was there were certain things that were certain forms of magic that involved substances like dung and corpus material that were very fringy, even among my gay performers.
So I would certainly not see that as something that was, I don't know, I wouldn't go there.
But probably where you probably where you wanted to go with that because something we talked about hit a time is what do we make of all these claims?
What do we make of all this magical kind of stuff?
And I probably depends a lot on the particular instance.
One of the things we talked last time about placebo effect and how suggestibility can cause good effects.
One of the things we didn't talk about if you ever heard of the no sebo effect is the opposite.
One of the things I just was reading this morning that a study of 12 clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccine had found that 76% of the side effects that people claim to have experienced from receiving the vaccine.
They claim could be attributed to the no sebo effect.
And what they mean is when you tell people about side effects that a particular drug can have, some people are inclined to actually develop those side effects.
And that can happen just as a placebo, we can have you can have health benefits, even if you give a sugar pill or whatever.
It works the other way too.
If you give somebody a sugar pill and tell them all the possible negative side effects, some people develop those negative side effects.
My wife right now, our vehicle, we just took to the shop a month ago, had to get something fixed.
And they rushed it in, got it out, said it's fixed.
And my wife is just really cautious going, are you sure?
Like she can't believe it.
And then they're like, no, I'm sure.
Because another light came on a day later, she brought it back.
And now yesterday, we have this conversation while driving.
Do you feel something's wrong with this vehicle?
I feel like something's wrong with this vehicle and I'm going, honey, honey, there's nothing wrong.
I don't feel anything wrong with it.
And I even mentioned to her, I think that she does this with medical issues as well with the kids get sick or whatever.
She goes online, Googles, and she'll come back and go, he might die in three days.
And I'm like, no, you're Googling me.
This is a little different though. This is actual causality.
Or, you know, there's a documented examples of men apologists have particularly shamans who put curses on people and they actually get sick and die because of the, or, you know, the practice and voodoo of, you know, the idea of zombies.
I mean, that goes back to an actual practice of using various means to essentially, you know, if you want to look at his outsiders to affect a person's mindset so that they lose their power of self control and come under the power of another.
But it's just phenomenal, the kinds of things that people that our minds can do to our bodies.
So some things might be explained that way. Some things are, you know, people actually what they, they couldn't prove it the way we can today, but they actually hit on actual healing substances or harmful substances and, and things that, that they thought of as magic were simply were, were naturally effective.
You could talk some about exorcism and demonic kinds of things and what degree is that psychological and things along those lines.
Some of the things that the bigger kind of nature miracle type things. One wonders how much of that is just people puffing themselves in the marketplace. Hey, I can do this. Hey, I can do that. Hey, did you hear he can do that?
Wait, all these magicians that can do all these things, but did anybody ever see them too?
Right.
Yeah. And then you brought up yesterday on our wonderful conversation on the phone that there's some things we just, so like, we just don't know.
And so there's some people who think maybe there's more to it. And whereas with me, I have a presupposition of thinking, if we don't have an answer, it's probably because it's not testable or we're not able to get there yet.
And I still would think there's, it's probably more probable that there's some explanation that we don't know. While some people, and I get why approach it thinking, no, I think that those things that we can't test really do have an underlying spirit or a power or something.
They may not call it like the ancient world where it's this daemon and that daemon and all this, but maybe they think it's a force, demonic or good angel or God, whatever the world you might encompass, they might still think that.
And I just draw different conclusions.
You know, I think you'll find that probably they're very divided opinions on this in academic studies of religion. But if anything, there's been a tendency in the last few decades to move toward more openness in that area.
And I'm not talking about believers. I'm just talking about, you know, anthropologists or academic scholars to at least allow for the possibility that there's could well be something going on here.
In other words, to not be so immediately, you know, enlightenment, rationalistic, everything has to have a scientific explanation and you look at the kinds of things that the shamans do or whatever.
And, you know, without trying to, obviously, some people are going to privilege their particular brand. And so for Christians, we know these things happen and they're true because we know there's a God who does miracles.
But I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about just looking cost culturally at the kinds of things that go on. And I think there's more openness in general in contemporary society than there used to be to say that there's mystery out there.
That there are things that science can't explain that, you know, science is good and so far as the kinds of things that can do, but that we need to get away from this kind of mythology that science can explain and answer everything.
And that if it can't doesn't have a rational explanation, it must be fraud or something like that. Right.
So, I think that I will put myself more in the latter camp without trying to provide the answers. I mean, I am also a Christian believer who would have my particular reading of that, which only apart from that simply looking at the totality of human existence.
Right.
I find it when I try to put on my rational glasses and see things entirely through that lens. It just doesn't seem to work. It seems like you got to ignore a lot of mystery and uncertainty and inexplicable kind of stuff and you still got to ultimately rest on faith.
Well, we got to trust that somehow there's a rational explanation if we don't know it. Well, that's fake, you know, so you are no longer being a purely rational being.
Yeah, I think obviously you know where I fall on this. I think that we're discovering how we, I think anthropology and the constant study of understanding how our minds worked the way that we thought about these things.
They had practical evolutionary use in fact too. So there's a lot of, where I would say the faith is for me is simply that maybe we'll come to understand how we've come to where we are and that might allow us to try and fill in these gaps of these mysteries to some degree.
I don't think everything will ever be solved or we are primates on an earth that you know the universe as what one famous scientist Neil deGrasse Tyson said he goes the universe does not have to make sense to us.
So that I like that and there was one interesting thing I wanted to say in light of all this, the most like outspoken atheist Richard Dawkins even said to James Randy when he had the Randy Foundation, trying to tell all these shamans and these people these future tellers everything.
If you have power come here will scientifically test to make sure this works. If you get it you win a million dollars and Richard Dawkins went on air on a stage one time and said, you know, you're really risking a lot here and what you're doing is I don't mind because I'm confident that these powers these magics aren't real.
And Richard Dawkins says, you don't know if humans have this capability. Let's just say and it's not that what they used to call it might have been magic or demon or spirit but what if we humans have some capability of something naturally a natural
phenomenon that we have attributed to divine whatever just like you talk about placebo no see no CBO like there's a power of self healing or something happens where this guy comes in and he's able to somehow do this and you can't prove that it wasn't, you know, whatever you think and you lose the million
dollars and he's like, well, you know, whatever so even the skeptic who was willing to go down a natural route was like what if there's something natural that we just don't understand.
I mean, as a teenager, I had a while where I was really in the parapsychology. And you know, it's very much that kind of thing of psychokinesis and the power of the mind and all you know telekinesis and all these kinds of things that certainly some people have claimed that we have mental powers.
I mean, in the end, I think we don't know and I'm not sure we'll ever know. I mean, I will challenge you a little bit to say that I think fundamentally, you have a faith in human and the adequacy of human rationality.
And that is a faith stance. You know, fundamentally saying that I think that ultimately I trust that somehow if we knew everything, we could come up with a rational and scientifically valid explanation for everything and you'll never be able to prove that to be true.
You hold that on faith.
Right. I think that the reason I start with that premise is is the way I've come to know things when I was dying from heroin addiction was people were telling me was a spirit. It was it was you were when I was a believer.
They told me it was a spirit of demon. The reason you were addicted to heroin had, you know, all of these supernatural or spiritual defect type characteristics.
And when I started finding out some science behind the wiring of my brain genetic connection between my father's addiction as an alcoholic, also the trauma of my upbringing and things like that.
I started to look into natural scientific explanations, which fit the data far better for me and I was able to practically like actually apply and recognize some of these things as facts.
And when I did that, I realized after reading and researching some of the ancient world, the volcanoes eruption was due to a God. I can't prove that the volcano didn't erupt because of a God.
They believed that. But what I do know is plate tectonic shifting crust caused the pressures. I can show what I could show why the volcanoes erupting in the natural world without having to posit the phenomenon of metaphysical things.
And for me, like as I started to practice that principle, I gained faith in this process.
And so when I don't know something, if we had 10 out of 10 things were attributed to the divine or God in the ancient world, and we now can show eight or nine out of 10 of those things with natural phenomena being explained and better explained in the data.
It does lead me to think it doesn't mean I know that the answer is this. It leads me in that conclusion to say this seems more probable than what we once thought that if you say this word, all this magical power, things like that.
You know what I mean? That's all I was saying.
And you would, and you would, of course, already know too that the same is true of religion. You know, whatever religion want to end, you start with certain basic outlook, basic kind of a faith stance, and then you recognize, you find and validate evidence to support.
And in both, you end up leaving out things that don't fit the don't fit the models. I mean, in the end, we're all even even the most fervent believer, if you, whether it's believer in science or believer in religion or whatever, has to ultimately admit, hey, we're all guessing at this stuff, you know,
at the end of the day, literally, you know, this is the question I go to sleep sometimes, or anything rather than nothing. And that question, we don't know the answer to all of us love to play in this thing we call life and figure out what we think we can know.
But yeah, it's
ultimately faith is you put your life where you're going to put your life, you know, and where are you going to where are you going to make that commitment because everyone lives by faith.
Yeah, you single human being.
What are you putting your faith in and we all have our choices to make in that regard.
Yeah, and for those who are watching the definition of faith. Okay, they'll start to get caught up on this whole particular what do you mean by faith type thing.
And and I'm not what direction you're committing your life to go in.
That's the simple definition we're trying to use right here right now. So don't get all caught up in.
It doesn't have to be religious, right?
Yeah, it doesn't have to be religious. There are things I walk in my daily life where I'm confident and I hope I have aspirations and hopes I'm a human like you.
Dr Stanley, I'm telling you this was an amazing episode. I hope our audience really saw some beauty here at the end even like how two different people who have different conclusions, like literally walk hand in hand and are like, okay, let's explore this crazy
interesting world of humans minds and how we understand the world together.
This brings so many more questions. It really does. It makes me want to know more about what was going on. I wish we had more evidence just to know more what was maybe going on in Jesus day and Paul's day since we only have seven letters.
But I really do appreciate you teaching and educating us on magic. I hope everybody goes and gets the trilogy.
Are there some of the books?
We might also refer back to our two prior conversations that tie into and lead up to this and one of them is posted on your site already. And the other one I guess you said is going to come out soon.
And so you might want to refer people to those to get the whole picture.
Yeah, go check them out on what is, was Paul okay with people going to the Asclepius temple to be healed? You got to go watch the episode to find out because this is, and you got to get his books.
Look, the whole reason I first had Dr. Stanley on to begin with, right? I didn't know he knew all this stuff. I'm thinking, OK, here we have a Pauline scholar. We're going to deal with pericope.
We're going to dive in and we will. We're going to have fun in the next episode. Really getting into Paul's teachings and stuff. What's he doing using Hebrew Scriptures? All of this fun stuff.
But that wasn't why I, this wasn't why I first started and then I found out, man, there is some really interesting things that he has brought to attention and it overlaps a lot of the material we do at MythVision.
So please go check out those episodes. Please go get some of his works and especially the trilogy because this right now, I mean, the two books that he has in his trilogy, you can go ahead and get them on audible.
You will go listen, educate yourself in the ancient Amazon or audible or lots of other sites to you.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And for everybody who's wanting to know that is a slave story dot com. Here it is here. Two of the books are out.
Third one will be out when he's done writing it and he's not done writing it. And that's a ram from Mars or.
I'm looking forward to it. Really excited about that. Everybody go check him out. Please also MythVision Patreon.
This video will be up early for those who have support us, just like all the other content. When it's not alive, I usually publish it early and let you all get a sneak peek.
You can private message me. You can harass me and tell me how wrong I am. I don't mind either way. It doesn't matter.
Is there anything you'd like to say before we go, Dr. Stanley?
I think we're done. It's been a lot of fun talking with you. I just really enjoy these sessions. I'm glad we found each other.
Same here. If you're struggling in life, you just don't know the answer. That's okay. I don't think at the end of the day, any of us really know all there is to know about it.
And I want those who are skeptics like me to be open minded in this sense. You don't believe in the supernatural. Got it.
Doesn't mean there's not practical application and that experience doesn't play an important role. Don't boil it down to molecules and this and that.
Sure, you can maybe say that that might be the cause, but you don't live like that. I don't live every day going, well, that emotional drive I have towards my wife.
That was just the chemical compounds in my frontal lobo cortex connecting to the midbrain. Come on. You know, that's cool to know, but living like a human,
which means let's put our prejudice to the side and realize that we're all humans and we should love one another and try to empathize and relate as much as we can.
And that being said, we are MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us, but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help on MythVision grow.
MythVision.
MythVision.
MythVision.
