Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to the channel, MythVision Podcast, your host, Derek Lambert.
Don't forget, www.mythvisionpodcast.com.
We got the new website set up.
We're working on it.
We're getting it developed.
Make sure you guys show us some love.
Go down in the description.
I'm going to want you guys to check out our guest material.
He has written a couple books, but Russell Gamirkin is an author.
The one we're going to discuss today is Borosis and Genesis, Manito and Exodus, Hellenistic
Histories and the Date of the Pentateuch.
And he has written Plato and the Creation of the Hebrew Bible.
So I've read that one first and, working backwards, went to his 2006 publication.
They call it the Green Book because it's full of riches.
Are you interested in the dating of the Hebrew Bible?
Most scholars believe the Hebrew Bible was constructed hundreds of years before the Septuagint.
Maybe around Ezra or Josiah.
There's a reform that takes place and they're using historiographical reasoning and believe
it was made up of four sources, J E P and D or D and P.
This is called the documentary hypothesis.
What if the Hebrew Bible wasn't as old as we suppose?
In this series, we're going to do a few video clips based on his book, Borosis and Genesis,
Manito and Exodus.
In this series, Russell Gamirkin will be giving a case where the Hebrew Bible was developed,
so to speak, five minutes before the Septuagint Greek translation was written in Alexandria.
Could the Hebrew Bible be a Hellenistic work?
Are there problems with the documentary hypothesis?
We will wrestle with this in Borosis and Genesis, Manito and Exodus.
And with that, welcome to the channel.
Welcome back, Russell Gamirkin.
I'm very happy to be here.
I'm glad you're here too.
I'm kind of a little jealous of seeing you on these other channels, man, and I'm just
happy to get this information out and you're doing a fantastic job.
You're hitting people in France, I think, or where is that?
Somewhere in Africa.
France, Africa of all French-speaking countries, but you were one of the very first to interview
me, so I appreciate that.
I'm lucky.
I'm lucky.
Dragon Squad is where I actually found you, so in terms of listening to you, so you were
hitting them with them daggers, if you know what I mean.
So you open this chapter up and this book, period, with, of course, showing your wife's
love.
I love you so much, honey, and this is written for you, and I don't blame you.
You're a romantic.
So in chapter one, I'm going to read something.
It's from your book, but for our audience to keep up with, this is important that I build
this up for the basic person.
The typical person like me off the street who's not going to know maybe some of these
terms, they're not going to really be able to track the argument.
I've heard plenty of shows with you and soundbites that sounded great, but did not, didn't follow
the development of your thinking.
And I think it's important to break it down so a six-year-old, so to speak, can understand
it.
And chapter one, methodology and history of scholarship.
This book proposes a new theory, and it sure does, regarding the date and circumstances
of the composition of the Pentateuch.
The central thesis of this book is that the Hebrew Pentateuch was composed in its entirety
about 273-272 BCE by Jewish scholars at Alexandria that later traditions credited with a Septuagint
translation of the Pentateuch into Greek.
The primary evidence is literary dependence of Genesis 1-11 on Borosus' Babylonica, 278
BCE, which is pretty much what he says is there's a priest, a Babylonian priest, who
can understand the cuneiform tablets, he understands the ancient language, and he's translating
it for Greeks or people who speak Greek.
It's a Hellenized world.
Okay, literary dependence of the Exodus story on Manito's Egyptica, circa 285-280 BCE, and
datable geopolitical references in the Table of Nations, a number of indications point
to a provenance of Alexandria in Egypt, or at least some portions of the Pentateuch that
the Pentateuch utilizing literary sources found at the Great Library of Alexandria was composed
at almost the same time as the Alexandria Septuagint translation provides compelling evidence
for some level of communication and collaboration between the authors of the Pentateuch and
the Septuagint scholars at Alexandria's Museum.
The late date of the Pentateuch, as demonstrated by literary dependence on Borosus and Manito,
has two important consequences.
The definitive overthrow of the chronological framework of the documentary hypothesis, which
is like the standard consensus all scholars to some degree agree with this theory, and
a third century BCE or later date for other portions of the Hebrew Bible that show literary
dependence on the Pentateuch.
Can you break that down just so our audience knows what you're trying to do?
Okay, we know historically that the Bible was written in Hebrew, and at some point
it was translated into Greek around 270 BC at Alexandria, which was the center of learning
for the whole world at that time at the museum, Great Library, scholars from everywhere.
And they wanted a copy of these Hebrew traditions and their laws in Greek.
So we know that event took Hebrew Bible, otherwise known as the Old Testament, had
to have been written before that.
Now how long before that's the question?
Was it hundreds and hundreds of years before like has been proposed in scholarship since
the dawn of time and to the end of the 20th century, or was it five minutes before?
I mean, we don't know, we can't deduce from the fact that it was translated into Greek
how much older the original was.
So my research over the years of the sources that the five books of Moses used when it
was written, who wrote it, where, and what was in their minds when they were coming up
with this stuff.
So I try and use very rigorous methodology to determine the date and circumstances in
which those important five books of Moses were written.
I'm over here muted myself.
I'm a mute.
That was well said.
That was well said.
And I think everyone's getting the idea how far apart was the Hebrew Bible written, and
then you have a translation of it.
And most of scholars that I've looked at say hundreds of years of development from different
sources, various sources, and you mentioned this in your book.
So I want to read a footnote that I think was vital right off the bat, and you did a
good job of putting this right there.
You said methodology, because I think it comes down to this.
There's a sharp methodological distinction between classical source criticism and traditional
biblical source criticism.
The latter, the biblical source, uses a variety of techniques to isolate hypothetical sources
within biblical text.
The identification of sources, J, E, D, and P, preliminary to the dating arguments of
the documentary hypothesis is a prime example of biblical source criticism.
Such source documents must remain perpetually hypothetical, since they no longer exist as
independent entities.
Simply put, we don't have those sources.
We don't have original J, original E, D, or P, or any concrete empirical evidence saying
here is the source.
We know this.
There are hypotheticals, kind of like there's a Q document.
They save the gospel.
So this type of source criticism is rarely encountered in classical scholarship.
One notable example being the detection of a catalog of ships as a hypothetical source
in Homer's Iliad.
Rather most classical source criticism takes place in later periods that are well populated
with text, so that a given text antecedents and successors are typically identifiable
that such source criticism has not often been applied to the Hebrew Bible, except internally
where one biblical text is identified as dependent on another.
It's primarily due to assumptions of antiquity of the biblical text, which has precluded
the consideration of literary borrowing from Hellenistic sources.
An interesting example of classical source critical techniques fruitfully applies to
cuneiform text is J-Tigay's, I think I'm saying this correct, the evolution of the
Gilgamesh epic.
I hope I'm saying that right.
The Sumerian literary antecedents of the Gilgamesh epic are well known as are several
Akkadian versions allowing an objective analysis of the development of the text from earlier
sources.
Filter that down into dumb dumb terms for most of us out here.
Okay, well, down through the centuries, clear down to the start of the 20th century, biblical
studies have been in a bubble.
They've been a bubble where they only read the Bible and they try and deduce things just
from the biblical text.
So around 1600, 1700, 1800, scholars began to notice that there are different sources
or different voices, mostly in Genesis.
One of them was J, this storytelling source, they use the word Yahweh rather frequently.
Another one was E, the Elohist that used the name Elohim.
Another one was the priestly source.
And then another one was the Deuteronomist who was primarily in the book Deuteronomy.
They used all this internal evidence to isolate different sources within the Bible and they
did this in a bubble where they didn't have to consider anything outside of their little
Bible that they were reading every day.
20th century, you began to have cuneiform sources, you had the Dead Sea Scrolls, you
have the Elephantine Papyri.
Outside objective information that might be relevant to when the Bible was written, objective
external verifiable, datable, and not just speculative, where they theorized that well
just shortly after the time of Solomon is when J and E were written and then the Deuteronomist
appeared at the time of Josiah and then Ezra was the time of the priestly source.
And they created this whole imaginative history of how the book of Genesis and the first five
books of the Bible were written.
Well now though, we have these external sources where we can say, no, let's not talk about
J as a source or P as a source, let's talk about Borosis as a source or Homer or these
authors that we can absolutely find the dates for.
That provides some controls as to when the Bible is really written and it's a whole different
approach to methodology than traditionally where dating the Bible was just used using
biblical literature itself.
Now we're more of a scientific, objective, comparative field that brings in as much information
from archaeology, inscriptions, weak sources, everything and bring it all to bear on the
problem of when the books of Moses were written, you've got a Mike Pence problem going on over
there.
I had a fly and I'm not going to let what happened to Vice President have a fly sit on
my...
I'm just...
I'm playing.
No, this is interesting because to break that down even simpler is they trust what
the text says a little too much sometimes and they think the text itself is reliable
where you point out in your book some scholars who aren't even in agreement with you, who
agree though that, look guys, we got a problem.
How do you know Ezra is not a literary device rather than a historical one or a legend rather
than a historical one and to be fair to these authors where people go, it's a lie, it's
a lie and it's just this...
Well, look, there are pious lies.
There are...
If I was going into battle, I would probably tell my soldiers if I knew we were going to
lose but we really needed to do this that we may win whatever is necessary to kind of
bolster up a white lie if you will and so we all do this.
But anyway, I want to say that they trust the text sometimes maybe too much and we don't
have outside sources to pin down and say, hey, look, it definitely was written around
Ezra's time and one of the things they'll do is they try to look at linguistics and
they look inside and they do stuff like that like you talk about in your book but you're
going to get into a different methodology and we're going to get into that.
So the end of your first chapter you say, the organization of this book follows a program
suggested by the above methodology.
The crucial step in dating the Pentateuch is establishing a true terminus ad quern.
And I was like, what is that?
Chapter two shows that the early date of Pentateuchal sources, according to the Deuteronomy hypothesis
or documentary hypothesis, sorry, is entirely lacking in external corroboration since archaeological
evidence including an analysis of written finds in Judea and at Elephantine, if you
don't know what that is, you're going to want to freaking seriously stick around for this,
okay?
Does not support the existence of any written Pentateuchal materials prior to the third
century BCE.
So my question for anyone to go further, what, you say this a lot in your books, when they
go to read your book, they need to know what is terminus ad quen and terminus ad quo?
What does that mean?
Determinus ad quen, well, unless it's the other way around, sometimes my mind flips
on these Latin terms like everybody else.
It's the earliest possible date a text was written and the latest possible date.
So to date a text, you want to squeeze that down as closely as possible.
The latest possible date we've already established one thing, it's the translation of the Hebrew
Bible in Greek.
It had to have been written before this.
So that provides a good terminus ad quen of 270 BC must have been written prior to that.
The other side is how much earlier was it written?
Was it written in 900 BC or finished in 450 BC or was it written in 271 BC?
It could be anything in that range and you want to find out if the Bible uses objectively
dateable sources so that those narrow down the possible date range.
For instance, if the Bible uses the writings of Homer, that means it had to have been written
after 700 BC or if it uses Play-Doh, it has to have been written after 350 BC.
Monatho 280 BC, Borosis the same and you narrow it down until, in my book, I trimmed
it down to somewhere between 273 BC is the oldest and 272 BC is the latest.
So that's pretty darn accurate and that's what my method is aimed at doing.
This is that's an extremely controversial position to take, I suspect, in light of all
of the consensus scholarship that's out there.
Have you got a lot of backlash on this?
I mean, I know you've gotten some positive feedback from Thomas L. Thompson and some
other scholars, I'm certain.
But I'm sure others are not following.
Well, American scholarship especially has been low to agree to the possibility that the Hebrew
Bible was written as late as the Hellenistic era, but it's starting to become more mainstream.
There are more and more scholars, including some in America, who are willing to contemplate
the idea that parts of the books of Moses were written in the Hellenistic era, which
means after the conquest of Alexander the Great, when Greek influences arrived in Judea and
the East, but through the end of the 20th century, it was a very controversial authors
like William Deaver.
He said that anyone who would even contemplate that the Bible could be written that late
was a nihilist and an anarchist in trying to bring down the downfall of Western civilization.
What?
He literally said that in one of his books, in the controversy between maximalism, which
means let's have the Bible as old as we can possibly date it, versus minimalism, which
said let's consider maybe it was written later and let's look at the other end of that date
range.
Maybe it was written, wow, even as late as the time of the Greeks, which was radical
at the time, but it's becoming less controversial.
I have to say for our audience, the reason why you really need to not only pick up this
book, but get the philo and the creation of the Hebrew Bible is because in this book
so far, I have not completed everything.
I'm taking my time really noting on this, and this is important to wrap our heads around
because if you understand this book and you read what he says, it'll get you right into
the conflict that goes on in scholarship right now, and you can really start to wrap your
head around some of the interesting ideas that are going on, because I'm just newly
introduced to this.
And you are my introduction into a field that I'm not used to exploring, and I really
appreciate that.
But in your philo book, you...
Plato.
Sorry, Plato.
I'm sorry.
In your Plato book, you actually take the time in the first chapter to express, scholars
for a long time have seen Greek connection.
They have seen a Greek Hellenistic connection, but they weren't sure, did this happen before
the 8th or 9th century BC?
It's some ancient antiquity time.
They bumped into each other.
We just don't have any empirical evidence.
We have no evidence.
We have no one's writing saying, yeah, yeah, yeah, there was this guy bumped into from
Greece.
Nothing.
We have nothing.
Or is it more likely we have to push it forward after these conquests, after these
exiles, and now they're touching place in Alexandria and whatnot, and you do a fine
job showing literary connections between Laws and things from Athenian, all that.
So I just want to say that up front, this is an interesting theory.
And you take your time.
You say, authorship of key portions of the Pentateuch by Jewish scholars, knowledgeable
in Greek and having access to Alexandria's library in 273-272 BCE, points to the identity
of the authors of the Pentateuch with a team of 70 or 72 Jewish scholars, whom tradition
credited with having created the Septuagint translation about this time through the generous
patronage of Petolomy II Philadelphus.
The objective of the Septuagint scholars, literary activities is best understood as the composition
of the Hebrew Pentateuch itself and only secondarily its translation into Greek.
The diverse Pentateuchal sources, J, E, D and P and H, are best interpreted as illustrating
the different social strata and interest among the scholars that work on the project.
What are you trying to say there compared to what the scholars are saying?
They say over long periods of time, these sources developed and collect and then someone put
them together.
You're saying these are just different, if you will, correct me if I'm wrong, different
guys from different, I guess you almost like today we have denominations, if you will.
Different backgrounds come together when they go to compile this and create this.
Yeah, I think that the documentary hypothesis and then the 20th century became the supplementary
hypothesis and there's different, so many variations, but I think they did a pretty
good job in identifying different voices or different authors who were at work in Genesis
and Exodus and so on and so forth.
What they did a disastrous job of is establishing the dates of those sources and they start
out with the assumption that every one of them was in a different century.
They were all in their own different times.
First you had J and then E came along.
J was in Judah and E was from Israel and Israel, they made their editions and then Josiah came
along and the Deuteronomists, they added their part and the priests added a bunch of stuff
centuries later.
So you have four different editions, just not the slightest evidence that there's this
sequence century by century of successive authors.
In fact, it's been debated ever since the start of the documentary hypothesis, is J older
than E or is E older than J?
The arguments point both ways, is the Deuteronomists older than Genesis or younger?
The relative order has never been agreed upon and I think the reason is because yeah, sometimes
J uses E, sometimes E uses J, they were both in the same room, they were contemporary,
they were different denominations as you say or groups that were all cooperating, so most
of the time it was the Torah or Pentateuch.
And there's a tradition that says there were 70 scholars at Alexandria to take the Hebrew
Bible and turn it into a Greek edition.
Well, Septuagint scholars only see maybe three translators, they can recognize three different
translators at work, not 70.
So what are all these 70 scholars doing?
Those are the authors and there wasn't 70, there was less than that, but you had bunches
of authors representing different perspectives and they all collaborated and they get in
the same room and roll the Moses and the Pentateuch as a result.
So J, E, D, P, and H, yes, they're distinct sources but they're all contemporary, they're
like different football teams that are in, they're all in the NFL in the same season,
they're not separated by decades or centuries.
And I want to say as a footnote to that, what you just stated, for anyone who's skeptical
of what you present, you're not closed off to them being possibly, you are sticking to
what you can know, though, based off evidence that is either inductive or deductive and
not histiographical, historiographical, because you're saying, look, I've got some evidence
that it's silent and it speaks wonders.
And so one of those is the elephantine papyri, but we're going to get into that in just a
second.
I want to get your comment on J Wellhausen and the documentary hypothesis.
Can you comment on the evolution of what you think?
Because most people will say, look, the God of the Bible was polytheistic or they had
many gods, the religion of Israel was many gods, and then, you know, it takes this evolution
to monotheism, and you could see this supposed development that's taking place in the different
penitential sources.
Also he relied heavily on the text rather than archaeology, do you want to make a comment
on that before we get into elephantine and going from there?
Sure.
Julius Wellhausen, who wrote at the end of the 19th century, he relied on a bunch of
earlier biblical critics.
Arukspinosa was the first, and then there was Raph, and I could list off, you know, 15
different people who each had their contributions.
Then E is different from James, someone said, well, there's the priest, and anyway, he
tied it all together because he came up with a convincing story.
He said that the Deuteronomist wrote in the time of Josiah because the book of Second
Kings chapter 23 said that Josiah discovered a copy of the laws of Moses in the temple.
Well, that was said to be Deuteronomy.
So that dates Deuteronomy to the year 613 BC.
People leave that story in Second Kings, which, where's the evidence for that?
He went on and Ezra, they brought the priestly laws from Babylonia and brought them back
to Judea because in the book of Ezra, he read from the law, and some of what he read
sounds priestly.
So he was able to say, for 53 BC, Ezra, he integrated the priestly laws into the Pentateuch,
and he had it all tied into this biblical history, which is highly questionable.
I mean, you can't prove those events in biblical history or, rather, historiography can't be
verified by archaeology, and the minimalist school, or the Copenhagen School, biblical
criticism, Thomas Thomson, Niels Peter Lemke, Arbini, Philip Babies, and others, they
began to question whether this biblical history that they used to hang the dates of the sources
on, whether that biblical history was actual history or is it just story?
Is it myth?
Is it made up?
How do we know that they are true?
How do we know what date those are made?
They seem to be very late.
And they're more theology and mythology than actual contemporary history.
So Wellhausen, he was in that bubble where you just used the Bible to learn about the
Bible.
You don't bring in Greek sources or other sources.
And it was a brilliant construct, but his method was highly questionable.
And he, he's now, everyone agrees that he put too much reliance on the biblical history
writing or historiography.
And that's just an unsound method.
Yeah, you say the documentary hypothesis as developed by Wellhausen illustrates the grave
danger of circular reasoning, Bible using the Bible, inherent in dating texts by means
of a historical construct created to facilitate the dating of the same text under the methodology
advocated in this book, the dating of text is properly an enterprise prior to an entirely
separate from the writing of history.
So you list off these scholars, maybe you can comment a cup on what some scholars say.
Figure we would take the time to like really point out.
These are some ladies and gentlemen, these are some big names.
These are some really well known scholars.
And they play a vital role in how people are analyzing this stuff.
And in one of them, you said, Van Cedars, how did Van Cedars play a role in dating of the
Pentateuch?
If you can remember some of these guys, like I know you, you're on your books, I'm stretching
your memory.
Yeah, well, John Van Cedars, he and Thomas Thompson, they both wrote and I think the
same year, they both wrote books that questioned whether the traditions about Abraham were
historical or all the patriarchs.
So between the two of them, they, they shot down treating the patriarchs as history.
But more importantly, in Van Cedars book in search of history, he brought out lots of
Greek connections to, to the biblical history, history writing.
For instance, the Greeks, famously, they, they had a genealogical structure to history.
Different peoples and tribes, they were traced back to one ancestor, like Helus was the ancestor
of the Helines or Greeks, or Perseus was the ancestor of the Persians.
So they, they had these heroes back in mythological times, that they traced their ancestry to,
and were also, they also built their history around.
And the book of Genesis says something very similar, not only with the table of nations
but the catalogs, 70 different nations descended from 70 famous people, Hem, Shem, Ham, Japheth,
so on and so forth, Canaan.
But you also have Abraham as a famous ancestor, and Isaac, and Israel was an eponymous leader.
And eponym means, your tribe is named after that person, the word name is in the word eponym.
So you have 12 tribes of Israel that are named after the 12 sons of Israel,
Jake, and Simeon and Gad.
So all of that is very, very Greek.
And he went into all sorts of other things too.
So he really broke a lot of ground in understanding biblical history writing as a very Greek enterprise.
But he also thought that the biblical writers kind of independently discovered historiography
before the Greeks did, and how Baruch Halpern and others have remarked on the genius,
how all these biblical writings, they anticipate Greek developments by centuries.
Well, maybe that's true, or maybe the biblical writings were a lot later,
and did borrow from the Greeks and not vice versa.
So John Ben-Suter, he's very important in establishing Greek connections,
but he also dates things pretty early, and he's not very useful in that respect.
Yeah, you point out one of the flaws you say is he's correct in pointing out these connections,
but he has no extra biblical foundation to suppose where the connections found their way to meeting each other.
And it's like the same problem you had in chapter one of your Plato and the creation of the Hebrew Bible,
where you're like, look, they think it happened way back where nobody can prove anything and there's no evidence of it,
but it happened, or later where we know for certain Hellenism and the Levant and everything.
All these people were intermingling.
They were definitely sharing and comparing.
And so you do a good job of that.
That's really interesting.
There's something that I wanted to say to illustrate that.
There was back in ancient times, people knew about the writings of Moses.
They knew about the writings of Plato, and they knew they were related.
A lot of the laws in Plato are very similar to the laws of Moses,
but everyone believed that books of Moses were written like a thousand years earlier.
So therefore, Plato must have borrowed from Moses.
Like he read somehow this Hebrew Bible, made it to Athens,
and he secretly read it and didn't tell anybody about it, and it came up with all these laws.
You know, the alternate theory is that the laws of Moses came from Plato in the Hellenistic era,
when the writings of Plato were all very well known and accessible to everyone.
So did Plato copy Moses, or did Moses copy Plato?
That's kind of the controversy that keeps on playing over and over again with different authors.
I think a timeline is important in this, to let people who aren't acquainted,
like they know names, they're dumb like me, okay?
Don't feel bad, trust me, I'm ignorant.
I just don't know.
Plato is said to have existed anywhere from 428 to 347 BCE, from what I understand.
So he is prior to when you say that the translation, and not only you,
everyone agrees that the translation took place around the time that you say that both of these versions,
the Hebrew as well as the Greek, take place.
And so if you can find clear things that only show up in Plato and nowhere else,
you really have to say one borrowed from the other or vice versa.
And somehow there's a genealogical connection here.
And so arguing that, well, he had Moses' writings,
all we need for you to be wrong, Russell, is some type of extra biblical source writing
that we know comes from around the time prior to what you said.
And guys, you got Russell off the hook.
Russell, you could just say, ah, it was a cool theory,
but I'm going to update and write a new book and say here it is.
I'll give it up, I'll give it up.
Exactly.
This is great.
So Plato comes before this Borosis and Manito situation,
which you're going to want to stay tuned.
We're probably not going to get into that detail yet till the next episode.
But what about scholar?
And I could probably be mistaken these these first names.
And please don't take disrespect that I may not say doctor or something.
I I'm only going out of your book.
And so you have what about G Garbini and the Philistines?
He has an interesting theory.
He tries to reconcile what you're talking about here.
And he goes, look, we don't have Greeks, but see the Philistines were the Greek type people
that they got this information from.
Can you comment on this?
Yeah, Garbini, he he decided, OK, there's a lot of similarities between the Greeks
and the Jewish writings.
So there's been all sorts of theories as to how those two groups talk.
Now, in the Hellenistic era is no problem, because the Greeks conquered Judea.
And, you know, you could consult your local soldier.
No problem.
But before then, way over in Athens, how did that communicate to Judea?
Well, Garbini said the Philistine, I think the Philistines, which was one little tribe
on the coast of the Eastern Mediterranean.
Other people said the Phoenicians.
Other people said, well, the people of Cyprus, they traded between the
Greeks and and the Levantine coast.
And it's all sorts of models, all sorts of theories.
But these these traders who who would carry Greek pots and olive oil and this and that
and trade them on the coast, they weren't also discussing philosophical theory
and and discussing laws.
And we're going to tell our our local guy who has the donkey caravan
that takes our pots to Judea and tell him about all the latest developments
in Plato and Homer.
And that's not how it happened back then.
Knowledge was shared between educated elites, the ruling classes.
They share that sort of information.
And that's something that Garbini didn't recognize.
And a lot of other people didn't recognize.
They just speculated there were people in contact with both groups.
So there's this process of cultural osmosis where information and traditions
just kind of seeped from the Greeks over to the Jews or vice versa.
And that's not the way knowledge was communicated back in the ancient world.
But he did recognize that there were Greek influences
and it could have taken place even as slaves of the Septuagint.
And he was innovative in that way.
Is a good Italian scholar.
What a character.
Yeah, you definitely compliment even though you show what you disagree
with you compliment these guys in your book.
What about PR Davies and his dating of the Pentateuch?
He was also part of that.
He he he belonged to he went to Sheffield, England,
and yet he became known as part of the Copenhagen School of Biblical Criticism.
It was basically
Niels Peter Lemke, Thomas Thompson, Philip Davies,
and then Garbini and a couple others were in there, too.
So Philip Davies, he his book in search of ancient Israel.
It was very influential in saying that when you talk about Israel,
there's more than one Israel.
There's a historical Israel, and we see that in inscriptions.
You know, it shows up in inscriptions.
So we know that there was a real entity in Israel.
And there's the biblical Israel, which is a literary creation.
So you really have to distinguish this literary construct,
which existed in the realm of story from history.
You can't confuse history and biblical writing because
biblical writings are different from inscriptions.
Inscriptions are carved in stone at that time.
You know, they're contemporary, so they're they're reliable and dateable.
But until you can date the biblical
writings, which Davies acknowledged could be as late as I think the late Persian era,
maybe the Hellenistic era, till you can date those,
you can't say that they're contemporary.
You can't they're they're less than a fact.
They are a written text of indeterminate date
and indeterminate factual content.
And he was a very influential and questioning biblical historiography
and something different from history,
which was previously viewed as you read the Bible, you're reading history.
That seems a big methodology early on.
What about in P. Lempch?
I think I'm saying this correct.
His dating.
Yeah, Nelps. Nelps Peter Lemke.
Lempke.
He wrote a very influential article called
was the Old Testament, a Hellenistic book, question mark in.
Earlier a year earlier in David, David, you broke up, you broke up, go back.
His title and work from there.
OK, Nelps Peter Lemke in 1993, wrote of an influential article called
the Old Testament, a Hellenistic book.
And he he pointed out that instead of assuming that the Old Testament was written.
Your mic's really close to your mouth.
I can hear that. Sorry. Sorry. OK.
So instead of assuming that the Old Testament was as old as it claimed to be
that the books of Moses were written by Moses, Isaiah wrote the book of Isaiah.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
It's really bad. I didn't want anyone to be like, what the OK, there.
Try that now. I'm sorry. All right.
I'm trying that. Yes. Yes.
Yeah, I apologize.
He said, what's the actual evidence?
What's the first evidence we have of when these things were dated?
They said, well, really, you've got the dead Z scrolls,
which are like second first century B.C.
We know that these biblical writings were written then
because we have fragments of them.
We actually found them.
And really, we can reasonably suppose that the books of Moses were written
by 270 B.C. because we had the step to its translation.
So those provide the latest possible date
that we absolutely do know that they were written in the Hellenistic era.
We don't have any contemporary evidence to prove that they were older than that,
not as old as the kings of Judah, not the Babylonian period, Persian era.
There's no proof that they were that old.
And he said that in terms of methodology,
let's start with what we know.
We know that it was written
by, say, the third century B.C.
We don't really know that it was written earlier than that.
But let's make the latest date the starting point for the discussion.
And that viewpoint became known as minimalism.
And the opposite view that let's date him as early as we can get away with
this unless there's an acrobatism will trust
that Isaiah was written by Isaiah or whatever.
So the maximalists were very upset
that he did not share their cherished long held assumptions
and that he had an entirely different starting point
that was rooted in objective external evidence.
And that was really a revolution.
It it started off my research and that many others.
Let me ask you this while we're still on him.
Where did he land?
I know he started with minimalism.
Did he go did he backtrack prior to your dating and say,
well, I'm sorry, I got to go further back.
I think it does.
I think the Hebrew Bible goes back to this state.
Where did he land?
Well, he.
He is willing to acknowledge that there might be older materials
that are embedded within the Hebrew Bible.
So am I, you know, I'm I love it.
If I can find a part of the Hebrew Bible
that is earlier than the Hellenistic era, that's exciting to me.
Like the book of Haggai, which talks about how we're going
a prophetic oracle that to to authorize
the rebuilding of the Jewish temple.
It looks authentic.
So there's a book that I believe was written around 615 BC.
That's exciting to me.
So he he agreed that there could be older sources, but
he thought that the Panathuk was put together in the Hellenistic era.
He thought and probably in Babylonia
because of the book of Genesis
and all the Babylonian traditions,
how their ancestors came from Babylon,
from the Caldees and migrated to the Thomas land.
More recently, he's become convinced by some of my arguments.
That that the Bible was probably.
The books of Moses were probably written in Alexandria.
He's particularly persuaded by the fact that there's a lot of constitutional
material in the books of Moses that could only have been written
in the Hellenistic era and could only have been acquired
by people reading books about great constitutions,
which were found at Alexandria's Great Library.
So he's come around.
It's very gratifying that one of the giants of the field
is at least partially endorsing some of my theory.
See, this is this is where it gets really good.
I like this because when I read your book or heard your theory,
the first thing I thought is he thinks everything was written.
In 273, 272 B.C., which means
which means in my little fundamentalist black or white, either or mind.
Right? I'm all I think is he either believes it's all written in or it's not.
You are not suggesting that all the material used within this
it must be dated to 272 273.
They're relying on source material that may go who knows how far back.
Like, for example, I have a very good scholar friend who is a documentary
hypothesis guy, Dr. Joshua Bowam.
And, you know, he could read a lot of these ancient languages, Sumerian,
Akkadian, et cetera, et cetera.
And he and Dr.
John J. Collins, for example, look at Daniel in chapters one through six
and see a older or at least some of it in this passage, an older Aramaic source.
And it's like, this sounds like this might be older,
but could they have not have gotten this in the Alexandrian library?
Is there not Aramaic sources?
Are there not like you do with Manito, like you do with Borosis?
Could there not be older sources they're they're going into or maybe borrowing from?
I don't know. And that's the question I'd like to ask you,
maybe before we jump into Thomas L. Thompson.
But sure. Well, sure, there's
there's lots of sources from the Alexandria Library.
There's also Egyptian
sourced in the book of Proverbs and another one in the Psalms.
And.
But there's also some local native sources.
There's the King List of Judah and the King List of Israel and the Book of Second Kings.
And you can verify the later names in those lists.
Those names show up in the Syrian and Babylonian inscriptions in the proper time frame.
So those are authentic and they were preserved locally
from Iron Age, Samaria and Judah
down to the time when the Book of Kings was written in the Hellenistic era.
So that's very exciting to know that there's some authentic older materials there.
I got I got a poke for those like me.
This is great.
You're not saying what's being said in First Kings
is really authentic historical documentation or older material about Israel's real history here.
The List of Kings comes from other people groups.
I mean, oftentimes, like you pointed out, Solomon was not an actual guy
who actually existed that was ruling Israel.
You know, he is another character,
another king from another nation who was of great magnitude with great power.
So this Kings List you just described that has older material that we can prove
is borrowing from another peoples.
It's not about actual Israelites and their Kings List.
Like they were the ones who were these kings.
They're really borrowing this, in a sense.
Well, I know the Kings of Israel were from the nation of Israel.
The name Israel appears in an inscription of Shalaman as the third in 853 BC.
He refers to King Ahab of the Kingdom of Israel taking part
in central Syria.
So the name Israel actually shows up there as the name of that kingdom.
And that was one of the
in the Book of Kings at the right time.
Mostly the Assyrians refer to it as Samaria or Bit-Hummary.
They use different names for that country.
But yeah, there was a kingdom called Israel.
It wasn't 12 tribes.
It's nothing like in the older books of Genesis and Exodus and so on and so forth.
But there was a nation called Israel.
And then to the south there was another nation called Judah.
So both kingdoms fell, but both of them had preserved
King lists that listed their Kings and how long they ruled.
And those documents were evidently preserved down through time
and their local authentic ancient documents.
Interesting.
That's interesting.
So when does the King list historically with actual evidence we have here?
How far back does that go before it cuts off?
Do you have a date on that?
Yeah, with the Northern Kingdom of Israel or Samaria,
the first King that we have confirmed in inscriptions would be King Omri
and then his son King Ahab.
So that's like about 890 BC.
Before then the King is between Solomon and Omri,
which are different dynasties.
Who knows where those names came from?
They don't appear in inscriptions.
But there's an inscription from Moab and there's a Syrian inscription that mentioned those two Kings.
Now in Judah, confirmation starts much later in the 730s BC with
I think Jehovah has and then Hezekiah.
And after that, yes, those Kings appear in inscriptions and historical sources.
The earlier Kings of Judah, we don't know who they are.
We don't know if they were a local governor or a clan leader or they weren't Kings.
There was no Kingdom.
There was no Judah mentioned in inscriptions earlier times.
So the earliest part of those lists are legendary, but the later parts can be verified.
Interesting.
Terrific.
Yeah, that is good.
So if we could find anything concrete, that's always good.
Scholar Thomas L. Thompson, he is something else.
And I know that he loved your book and said, look, I got to get this published.
We got to get this guy, we got to make sure this thing gets out there.
So tell me a little bit about his dating, what he thinks and or thought,
and maybe a little development of what he thinks now and teach us a little bit about that.
Yeah, Thomas Thompson.
He was a bit of a maverick.
He and John Cedars, they both published books that said that these stories about Abraham
are basically mythical.
So he was ostracized for many years after that.
His PhD thesis was rejected by Cardinal Ratzinger, who later became Pope.
So yeah, he worked as a house painter for 10 years in the US.
He couldn't get a job as a teacher because his ideas were too controversial.
Well, Meals Peter Lemke of the University of Copenhagen said, you can teach here,
move over to Denmark, we're sub-civilized, we're progressive, and we'll give you the freedom
to pursue your research.
So he has been especially an important voice in minimalism,
suggesting that the historiographic writings, you know, what we call history from Genesis
through Kings and Ezra Nehemiah, they're a largely myth, that is to say story.
They're stories and they have theological content and they can't be relied on as factual history.
And he thought they could have been written probably in the later Persian era,
but possibly as late as the early Hellenistic era.
So he and Davies, they both, they were creeping later and later.
They hadn't quite arrived to where Meals Peter Lemke and I had arrived at, but we're all very
friendly. And yeah, a friend of mine, Greg Dowden, I was going to the University of Copenhagen
and just on a lark, for my own benefit, I wrote this book, Porosis and Genesis.
And I said, Greg, why don't you read this?
He said, I like doing research. He read it. He says, I have to show this to Thomas Thompson.
He showed it to Thompson and Thompson said, we have to publish this.
So, Thompson has been, I guess you practically call him my patron.
He has pretty much anything I want to write to people at Copenhagen will publish starting with
Porosis and Genesis. And he's a great friend. I met him in Copenhagen at a conference and a terrific guy.
Wow. Yeah, this sounds great. I'm glad that a place like that is willing to entertain and
consider new evidence that might place the dating different. Yeah, he, he sounds like someone I
really need to get acquainted with. Let's go to our Alberts. And I'm not sure his first name.
Right near, right near Albert. Okay. If you don't mind touching on him.
Well, he was, he was an important 20th century author. He wrote a book called A History of
Israelite Religion. And he came up with this story of when the sources were created. He thought that
the, and it took was kind of a compromise between priests and elders. I agree with, but in a much
later time. But he was basically interested in extracting sociological information about the
groups behind the books of Moses and analyzing who they were and how they could have interacted
with each other and, and tied in with his reading of biblical history. And so he was, he was another
one of those who used historiography, biblical historiography to date the books of the Bible.
He's kind of declined as, as a voice in the 21st century. He had a long distinguished career.
He still publishes articles, but it's not that influential. Okay, okay. Interesting. And then
last but not least, we have to talk about William G. Dever. And he has been great in my deconversion
situation with finding out that Yahweh was married to Ashra. And, you know, like, I was like, whoa,
he has a wife. So he had an interesting episode he did, our presentation just showing that. So I
really was fond of his work. I said, wow. But in your book, you kind of point out some pros and cons
in terms of criticisms, if you will. He talks about something called classical Hebrew and late
biblical Hebrew. Can you elaborate on that? And his dating, he goes as far, he's almost like a
maximalist in some, some ways, at least with some sources. But can you, can you give us a little
bit on this gentleman? Yeah, he started out very maximalist. He demonized the minimalists. He made
launch personal attacks on Thomas Thompson and Lemke and the rest and said that, you know,
they were going to bring down the downfall of everything we hold dear to in Western civilization,
especially biblical scholarship. But at the same time, he presented himself as an archaeologists,
you know, like a top of the profession. And, but in an action, and, and he has published a lot
of interesting stuff, like, like you mentioned. But he also is informed by conservative scholarships,
reading of the Bible a lot. He accepts, uncritically, a lot of contemporary theories about
the antiquity of Bible and the books of Kings. And, but he's a larger than life personality.
And I, I quote him for some of his material, which is factually based and archaeologically informed.
But he, he's unhinged in on certain topics, at least he used to be. But now he basically has adopted
the tenets, the tenets of minimalism that, you know, like Thompson, you should use archaeology
to construct history and not rely primarily on the biblical text. So formally, he has come around
to the minimalist position. But he still kind of hasn't buried the hatchet, as far as I can tell.
Yeah, I remember watching him discuss a lot of high places that they have archaeological finds.
That weren't destroyed. And so here you're supposed to destroy them. And, well, they're not destroyed.
So it's, it's really interesting. And you could tell that they are done by Israelites. It's not like
this is just some random temple site or a sacrificial locale locale where they're doing
whatever they might do in this particular locale, most likely sacrifice and stuff like that.
It's obvious they didn't destroy a lot of these places. So when the Bible says, and then they
destroyed all the high places, well, they didn't get all of them. So we had a problem here. And,
and anyway, I just, I thought I'd mentioned he has some interesting archaeological finds that I
thought were critical. And I like the critical stuff. So there are three methods, three methods
for dating historiographical, inductive and deductive. And you are pretty much focused on
inductive and deductive methodology. Real quick on the classical Hebrew and late biblical Hebrew
that Mr. Dever does. Do you have a comment on that particular point that he brings out?
Well, he doesn't do much of that himself, but he does rely on others, biblical scholars.
Scholars have seen a progression of language developments within the Hebrew Bible.
There's one type of language that's called classical biblical Hebrew that is used in
some of the older biblical, you know, Genesis through King and some of the prophets.
Now late biblical Hebrew is a characteristic of some of the latest biblical texts like Chronicles,
Ezra, Nehemiah. And it's also shared by the book of Sirach, which is a book in the,
between the Old and New Testament, it was written around 180 BC. He used that linguistic variation.
So we know it was current around then.
And classical biblical Hebrew, it shares some features of language that is shared by inscriptions
from the iron. It does have some old elements. You broke up. You broke up. It shares inscriptions?
Yeah, inscriptions found at Erad and Lakish and different archaeological sites
that have written texts on them, mostly on pot sherds. They have some features of classical
biblical Hebrew. So classical biblical Hebrew was used in ancient times. Late biblical Hebrew was
used in modern times, like in the Hellenistic and Roman eras. But when was that transition
from one to the other? Well, that really all depends on when you date these biblical books.
If you date the books of the Torah in the Hellenistic era, then that means they were still
using classical biblical Hebrew in the 200s BC. And so there's a bit of circularity, circular reasoning
when they say that a book that conservative scholarship dates in the 700s BC uses classical
biblical Hebrew. They say that proves that it's that old when it could be a lot younger,
depending on the dating of that book. So it's really not useful for dating biblical books.
That's the bottom line. And there's no inscriptional evidence to prove when the transition
from classical biblical Hebrew to late biblical Hebrew took place. You can't verify
when that transition took place in inscriptions. Could have happened 400 BC, could have happened 200
BC. They really don't know and they shouldn't pretend. They shouldn't pretend that they do.
That's interesting. Well, you know, PR Davies questions you say the reform ever took place.
Talking about the Book of the Covenant discovered. Could Ezra also be late in legend?
This is a question I'm asking our audience to consider. The historical framework of the
documentary hypothesis was based on the untested premise that literary accounts of Second Kings
22 through 23 and Nehemiah 8 through 10 represented actual and accurate historical data.
At the time, the documentary hypothesis was formulated. Scholars neither saw the need to
test the historicity of biblical historiography, historiography. I can't even say it.
Historiography. There we go. I can't even say it. Okay. Nor had the means to do so.
Today, archaeological evidence and inscriptional and other ancient textual finds
play an increasingly dominant role in reconstructing history and in testing the accuracy of literary
sources. Josiah's reform was a literary, not historical in nature. So we're going to transition
to two things before we end up exiting this show because we aren't even going to get into
Manito and Borosis yet. I cannot wait to do that episode where we can dig into these two guys
because your chapter even just going into Manito is quite a long one. I read chapter one and two
and I was like, okay. And then I just, you know how you go forward to see like, how far is this
chapter going to go? And I was going and going and going. I said, there's a lot here. So the
two silver amulets dating to the late seventh or early sixth century BCE, discovered at Cateph
Hinnom, Kedith Hinnom and Jerusalem by G. Bar K. In 1980, they contain a priestly benediction,
three lines of which read, May Yahweh bless and protect you. May Yahweh look favorably upon you
and grant you well-being. Translation by Yardini. This has close parallels with numbers 624 through
26. So pretty much the argument here goes, well, look, this parallels numbers. Numbers is in the
Bible. It's part of the Torah. And this is dated to the sixth, seventh century BC. Come on, Russell,
what's wrong with you? Can't you see that this is evidence against your hypothesis?
Well, even the person who discovered these amulets, by the name of Gabriel Bar K. Well,
I met in Jerusalem, by the way, as a, he was a tour guide that gave me and some others a tour
of Jerusalem when I was there presenting on the Dead Sea Scrolls as an international conference.
Great guy. Anyway, even he says, this doesn't prove that the book of numbers was an existence back
then. It proved that that priestly formula was an existence. There are like six markers within
the quote itself that point to it as an oral formula, something that was recited,
something that was spoken, not something that was written. So you have this oral formula
that who knows how long it existed just verbally before it was written down. It's kind of like
if someone said, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, that's a very common
formula, a priestly formula. But because somebody's saying that doesn't mean that
it was written down or they cut it out of a book, you know, people use those words for centuries
upon centuries. So that shows the earliest possible date on which that oral tradition could have been
founded. It comes from something authentic from the 600s BC. But when that was put,
put department is a totally different issue. Yeah, I think it's hard for us in the 21st century to
understand what scholars are trying to talk about with oral tradition. You know, we are so simply
come home, put on our TV, play our video games, read a book, whatever, not realizing to taking
for granted what the ancient world did. They didn't have all these writings. It wasn't out there for
common folk. Oftentimes, everything was oral. And this is where a lot of there are a lot of
interesting theories. I have a good friend, Dr. John Knight-Lunwall talks about orality and people
who were of oral before writing. Their hardware was the same as ours, but the way their software
worked was very different. But anyway, we don't really think that because when we go, well, the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, I learned that from writings. Or I learned that from a
church that learned that from writings. Well, yeah, I get that. I understand where they're coming from
or they might have had someone who wrote this. But it's interesting to note that what you're
trying to suggest is they it wasn't like we have today where there's a bunch of books floating
around all the time. And we have a lot of stuff in writings. In fact, eventually, who knows,
we might end up having everything as media at one point, we're going to go writing. What is that?
You know, and the software might change, you know, and so it's interesting. So to think like that.
But let's let's get into something that's going to tackle what you just discussed here. And really,
what is the elephantine papyri? Is it an elephant stamped on a piece of paper? I mean,
what's going on here? Yeah, elephantine. The people, Egypt, they loved their elephants.
So, and especially later on, the Ptolemies, they went on all sorts of elephant hunting expeditions.
And, you know, so that's that's where the name elephantine came from. The actual
Egyptian name was Y-E-B. So anyway, the elephantine papyri were written at a military colony of
elephantine, Iraq, the Nile River. It was the border colony between Egypt and Ethiopia, guarding
against an Ethiopian invasion. The colonists who were there, they were from Judea and
and they were Aramean. So they were actually Jews who were living there, this military colony.
And they wrote also some documents between about 450 BC, 400 BC, that have been preserved
on parchment or leather or on ostrica or pot shirts, because the Egyptian climate is such
that these these old documents are preserved. Well, these Jews and elephantine, they had
their own temple. They practiced polytheism. They had, they knew about the seventh day of the week,
but they worked on the seventh day of the week. There's one papyrus that says, if you don't get
those vegetables off that boat on Saturday, the seventh day, I'll kill you. I will kill you if you
don't do the work that I'm telling you to do on the Sabbath, basically. It had, they observed the
Passover, but not the biblical Passover. It was an agricultural festival, but there was no Moses,
there was no Exodus in their Passover ritual. It was just sacrificing a lamb and not having any
yeast in their household, which also meant they couldn't drink any beer. The papyrus says no beer
allowed during these seven days. So they were practicing Jews. They were in communication
with the Jews in Jerusalem because the Egyptians got mad and burned down their temple.
And so they asked the priest in Judea and the leaders of Samaria, can we, can we have your
blessing to rebuild this temple? So the people in Jerusalem evidently thought it was okay that
there were multiple temples, that they could have their own temple there. Fine, no problem.
So there's no evidence of any biblical writings. There were no laws of Moses. They didn't know Moses.
They didn't know Abraham, Isaac, or Israel, or David, or anybody. There were no biblical writings
at that time. Now, scholars when these papyri were discovered, they freaked out. These were some
weird heterodox oddball, weird Jews who practiced their own strange customs. Oh, yeah, except that
they were in communication to Jonathan, the high priest of Jerusalem and his brothers.
So no, that was ordinary Judaism of its day. And it knew nothing of a biblical text. There was no
Bible in 400 BC. And that's after the books of Moses were finished, J, E, D, P, and H according
to the documentary hypothesis. But none of those sources of appearance at Elphi didn't happen.
You say, just to read it, something you wrote. This is fascinating. I love this
Eliphantine thing. This is archaeology at its best, guys. I really like this. Most of these
were letters that they found, legal documents, supply accounts, and the like. But one, number
21, contained an order from Darius II in 419 BCE to the Jews at Eliphantine in joining them to
observe the days of unleavened bread. While a second series in OS dot 27 30 to 34 documented
the Egyptian destruction of a Jewish temple at Yeb in 411 BCE, and the fruitless efforts of the
colonists during the years 410 to 407 BCE to secure permits or permission, sorry, to have it rebuilt.
And you say that you think it might have been because they were possibly sacrificing animals
that the Egyptians held sacred even. And these guys are like, well, we got to keep our sacrifices
going. They had pretty much what I counted is that you say this is oral tradition at best,
just like those tablets, the silver amulets. But of over 160 Jews at Eliphantine mentioned in the
papyri, not one name comes in from the Pentateuch. Nor is there any reference in the papyri to the
Exodus or any other biblical event referenced to Laws of Moses or other authoritative writings.
It's entirely absent. There is perplexed. It's there is this is perplexing, since the priests
supervising the Jewish temple at Eliphantine should have possessed and enforced the Jewish Torah,
which according to the documentary hypothesis was complete and promulgated as authoritative
during the time of Ezra and Nehemiah. And you say a cowley commented succinctly on the complete
lack of evidence for use or knowledge of the Pentateuch at Eliphantine. What precisely constituted
a kahin priest at Eliphantine does not appear. One of their prerogatives, we might suppose,
would be to possess the Law of Moses and to administer it. Yet there's no hint of it's existence.
We should expect that in 30.25, I think he's referencing something in the papyri,
they would say offer sacrifice according to our law and that in other places they would say
they would make some allusion to it. But there is none, zilch. So far as we lean,
lean, LEAM from these texts, Moses might never have existed. I think it meant learn. I might have
captured a word. There might have been no bondage in Egypt, no exodus, no monarchy, no prophets.
There is no mention of other tribes and no claim to any heritage in the land of Judah,
among the numerous names of colonists, Abraham, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Samuel, David,
so common in later times, never occur, nor in Nehemiah, nor any other name derived from their
past history as recorded in the Pentateuch and earlier or early literature. It is almost incredible,
but it's true. And I had to read that because that's, I mean, nothing.
It's a great summary, great quote. Yeah, nothing. And this is something you're saying, guys,
it would have been screamed from here that we'd had more than just unleavened bread traditions or
the fact that they practiced sacrifice or the fact that they were temple ritualists that had a temple.
Like that was common. Even people without writing, even people without their constitution,
got to read his Plato and the Hebrew Bible to really get where this all comes in,
you know, they all, there are people who practice this stuff throughout antiquity
and did not, we don't, we'd heard something I would suspect.
Well, when the Elephantine papyri were discovered, it was a scandal, like Cowley,
that passage that you read, and really has taken clear into the 21st century
for scholars to recognize that, well, this just means that they didn't have a Bible then.
This is normal Judaism. It was pre-biblical. The, an author named Rannarad, he's written a whole book
on the Elephantine papyri and just taking it as at face value as this is what Judaism was at the time.
Same is true in Babylon. They had polytheism there and it was just normal.
There was a, it was a temple of Yahweh in Edomia and Edom at a late date also,
so they had multiple temples, polytheism, no biblical writings. That was just the way it was.
And that really creates an earliest possible date right there.
The, the books of Moses had to be written after 400 BC with the latest of the Elephantine papyri
and that's later than the documentary hypothesis allows.
Wow. So we're stuck right now, if you're watching the series, we're stuck with this
enigma code called the Elephantine papyri and the archaeology backing such, such a theory.
And what we're going to do is what we've conned down to the 400s. Let's stick at the 400s for any of
you skeptics like me out there who want to challenge and test this theory. Not only do I recommend you
get the book, okay, but stay tuned to the series because we're going to open up in the next episode
and talk about this guy named Manito and this guy named Borosis. Let me rephrase that.
This priest named Manito and this priest named Borosis. Very important figures that are doing
the same thing, if I will, that what was required of the Jews to come do with their holy supposed
books and get into the Septuagint. They're translating their history, if you will, into Greek so the
common man can understand the story from Egypt, the story from Babylon, the story from where's the
Jew's story? Ah, it's coming. It's coming. So make sure you guys stay tuned. Get the book. Russell
Gamirkin, do you have any closing statements you'd like to make on what we did in this episode?
Well, first off, it was very enjoyable and you asked very smart questions. You've really read my
book and you quoted all the best passages from it. But really what we've established in this episode
is a kind of a scandal. The old 20th century scholarship and earlier that just read the
Bible and said, well, it must be really old and it was written back in ancient times for the Greeks.
That doesn't hold water anymore. We need to look at later times and there's
plenty of overlooked evidence that the Jews knew Greek writings and used them a lot.
During the 20th century and earlier, they never even looked at Greek writings. Why? Because they
assumed that the Bible was written before Alexandria. So it's circular reasoning. If it was written that
early, you don't need to pay attention to the later Greek writings. You don't even need to look at
them. They're irrelevant. Well, I don't believe they're irrelevant. I think that they provide a
smoking gun as to when and where the Moses were written. And I'll be very delighted to get into
that in our next episode in this series. Guys, get ready, buckle up, get ready. We're going to launch
off. We're in the 400s right now. Give them the benefit of the doubt here. I mean, we're in the
elephantine papyri phase. So we're right here. We realize that it can't be any older than this
period. Or we need some facts. We need some real facts to base this on. We have nothing. So
right now I'm in the 450s with you, 400-ish BCE, and he's going to have to convince us,
Manito and Borosis, and take us closer towards the Hellenistic area with the
Alexandrian phase, if you will, the Alexandrian library. He's going to have to take us there.
So thank you for joining me. And I look forward to us digging deep into your book,
Borosis and Genesis, Manito and Exodus. So thank you so much for joining me.
My pleasure. And don't forget, we are MythVision.
