Please become a patron of MythFishing Podcast. Get access to everything early. Help us grow.
Ian Mills New Testament Review Podcast. Thank you so much for joining me again today, brother. I appreciate it.
Of course.
Go down in that description. Make sure you guys subscribe to his YouTube channel. Join his Patreon.
And of course, as usual, interesting conversation.
Markin' priority.
Yes.
Dude, you love this stuff.
I do.
Who taught you?
Well, actually.
Markin' priority is my PhD advisor, my Dr. Vater, my mentor, although I have to say I learned Markin' priority not from him, but from Melissa Sellu at the University of Minnesota.
Okay.
Who is a member of the Jesus Seminar and a very, very different scholar, a Q-Believer.
Why is it important, though? I mean, what is Markin' priority and why does it matter?
Markin' priority is probably the least controversial claim in New Testament scholarship.
It is the one thing that you'll find that more than almost anything else, people who study the Gospels all agree about this, whatever else they might disagree about.
And it's really, really interesting and it's a thing that really, really transforms how we can read the Gospels and really transforms our interpretation of the Gospels.
And so I think it's a really, really important thing and it's weird because this has been taught at seminaries for 100 years now.
Everyone has been learning this thing.
And for some reason, it often doesn't leave the seminary doors.
It gets left and doesn't make its way into the pews.
So it's a hugely important thing that is really not controversial in scholarship and has been established on all sorts of lines of evidence as close as we can get to a consensus in New Testament studies.
And that is that Mark of the Gospels that survive, Mark was the first Gospel written and Matthew and Luke used Mark in writing their Gospels.
So there's two parts to that claim that there is a literary relationship.
There's a literary dependence of Matthew and Luke and Mark with a documentary solution.
That is, they were not just hearing the teachings of Jesus and writing it down in similar ways, but that Matthew and Luke were actually reading a copy of Mark.
And of course, then there's also the direction of dependence.
So those things combined we call Mark in priority.
Let's do the literary relationship, a documentary evidence first.
Evidence for a documentary solution first, which is quite simple.
660 verses in Mark, 600 of them are taken over.
The wording is taken over into Matthew.
90% of Mark shows up, of Mark's words show up in Matthew.
It's actually 77% of the actual word gets pulled over because of course Matthew sometimes substitutes a synonym.
But of the verses, 90% of them get carried over.
And that includes 30 verbatim strings of agreement.
Word for word for 30 words, exactly the same word.
That doesn't happen by chance.
It does not happen by chance.
Jesus didn't speak in Greek.
These Gospels are being written in Greek.
Greek doesn't care about word order.
They're copying over the same words in the same order for huge strings of agreement.
Imagine describing the same, you and your friend are describing the same story.
Even if you were both there, even if you've talked about it beforehand,
you are still not going to have 30 word strings of verbatim agreement.
Especially if you're describing this in another language.
Jesus preached an Aramaic.
Moreover, it's not just the teachings of Jesus.
It's not like they're just drawing on a common store of teachings of Jesus.
It's also descriptions of the setting.
Also descriptions of what scriptures they're quoting to contextualize the story.
And in the case of Mark and Matthew, they even both reproduced the same editorial interjection.
In this synoptic apocalypse where Jesus is talking about the stories falling from heaven,
there is a place where Mark steps in and says,
let the reader understand.
He's interjecting a little editorial comment and saying,
pay attention here.
Matthew copies it over verbatim.
Matthew copies the whole sentence out.
Actually, he adds in a little phrase on the Sabbath is the phrase he adds in.
And then he copies over the editorial interjection, let the reader understand.
So literary solution is not controversial.
Documentary solution is not controversial.
There's some controversy over how this happened.
A big part of my dissertation is actually compositional methods in the first century.
So there's debates over whether or not Matthew had eyes and a copy of Mark.
Matthew was having Mark dictated to him by a lector, by a reader.
Or Matthew was memorizing swaths and then copying it over.
People can disagree about that. That's fine.
I'm not going to come out in favor of one solution or another at this point.
But it's dependent on Mark as I've written the text.
But why not opposite direction, right?
Why not?
Why are scholars so convinced that Matthew is reading Mark and not Mark reading Matthew?
Right.
Bunch of different lines of interpretation.
There are a bunch of different lines of argument favor this solution.
One is the redaction profile of the evangelists,
which is to say, what kind of person is Mark if he's reading Matthew
versus what kind of person is Matthew if he's reading Mark?
Seems a little bit weird, but let me explain what I mean.
Mark, if Mark is copying out of Matthew, what changes does he make?
He deletes, omits the nativity, the miraculous birth of Jesus.
He omits, deletes the resurrection accounts.
He takes Jesus saying, I won't heal you because you lack faith
and says, I cannot heal you because you lack faith.
He takes Jesus healing people at a word with distance and says,
no, Jesus had to do that twice and Jesus had to use mud and spit.
He takes the Lord's prayer, which we know if looking around, this is an argument from Mark and Eker,
that if you look around all the different components of the Lord's prayer,
correspond to Mark's own conception of who Jesus is.
These are all fit into Mark's portrayal of Jesus, but he deletes it.
The image you get of Mark as a reader of Matthew, as someone who's rewriting Matthew,
is someone who cuts out the resurrection, cuts out the nativity,
and consistently makes Jesus have a little bit of harder time doing miracles.
And consistently takes Matthew where Jesus says, the rich young ruler comes to Jesus
and calls him good teacher and Jesus says, why do you ask me about the good?
And changes it to, why do you call me good?
You can see, in contrast, if you flip those,
if Mark is using Matthew, he's someone who seems to be very interested
in downplaying how important Jesus is, in cutting out the resurrection of Jesus.
That's just not a plausible portrayal of an early Christian.
In contrast, if you get Mark composing this material,
that is, he's received these traditions about the historical Jesus,
and he's writing these things up in Greek for the first time,
you then get an image of Matthew, it's coming along and takes Mark and says,
well, Mark knows there's a resurrection, he signals it, right?
And he's got these angels signaling to it, but we never get to see it.
We should definitely have those traditions and add that in.
And says, we have Jesus on the scene as a significant person of the baptism,
but what about his childhood? We should add that stuff in too.
And so you get the image of Matthew as a very plausible, pious person who loves Jesus.
And that's just a more plausible depiction of who would bother to spend the time
writing a gospel.
There's other things. My favorite additional argument,
there's two more arguments that I think are really important,
and that is the argument against microconflation and the argument for editorial fatigue.
And I'll start with the second one, because it's a little more interesting.
When authors copy out of sources, verbatim, when they do it as conservatively,
as carefully as Matthew and Luke copy out of Mark, but are also making changes,
they will sometimes introduce a change that does not comport with what they've copied out.
They create a narrative inconsistency.
And this consistently happens with Matthew and Luke's use of Mark.
That is, Matthew and Luke will make a characteristic change to Mark
and then lapse back into Mark's verbatim wording, thereby producing an inconsistency.
Another argument for Mark Godaker, fatigue and synoptics.
Great examples of this include Luke, as all Christians have recognized.
Mark Godaker rearranges the stories of Jesus.
He gets from Mark, moves them into different places, different settings.
There's a shuffling. I mean, Luke tells us this in the prologue.
He's received these stories, and he's putting them in a proper order,
taxes, taxes. This is something Luke tells us in the prologue that he's doing.
He's rearranging the stories.
He rearranges the feeding in Bethsaida,
sorry, the feeding of the 5,000 from Mark happens in a deserted place,
happens in a desert.
And the disciples say,
for we are here in a deserted place, where shall I get food?
Takes that, relocates it in a city in Bethsaida.
But copies over, the disciples saying, we are here in a deserted place.
But in Luke, they're not.
In Luke, they're in a village because Luke has rearranged this narrative.
Characteristic change laps back into the wording of a source.
We see that happening also with Matthew and his depiction of Herod.
Matthew makes Herod more villainous.
He tells us from the beginning, so in Mark, Herod kind of likes Jesus.
And then gives this promise to Salome that he will give her whatever she asks for.
And she asks for, prompted by her mother, asks for the head of John the Baptist.
And Herod is sad.
Herod doesn't want to kill John the Baptist because as Mark told us already,
Herod likes John the Baptist.
He thinks he's interesting.
He's kind of perplexed by him.
There's some conflict.
But we get this depiction, a plausible depiction of Herod as liking John the Baptist,
being forced into this.
And then we're told at the end of the story that Herod is sad about having to kill him.
Matthew, throughout the whole gospel, heightens the conflicts between Jesus and the leadership.
This is a theme of Matthew.
Constantly heightening the conflict.
And one of the things he does is he takes out this initial sympathetic detail about Herod.
And he says instead that Herod didn't like John the Baptist all along.
But preserves copies of Mark verbatim, Herod being sad when he has to kill John.
But it doesn't make sense in Matthew by itself.
In Matthew, you have to ask yourself, why would Herod be sad?
He finally has an excuse to kill John.
That's something he's wanted to do from the beginning.
Well, it makes sense if Matthew and Luke are rewriting the gospel of Mark.
I wonder if there's anything with Pontius Pilate.
You brought that up and made me think of him.
Because from historical writings outside of the gospels,
that dude was definitely not a cool guy to the Jews.
That's right.
But he's super cool with Jesus, you know?
Yeah, he's a complicated figure, of course.
He's relatively sympathetic.
I'm not sure how to fit that into...
I'm not considered that in light of editorial fatigue and the use of the gospels.
But the last thing is this micro-conflation argument,
which is historians in antiquity don't micro-conflate sources.
That is, they don't take two sources and interweave them in detailed ways.
This is probably partially because of how they use technology.
You've got a big book roll, you're copying it on your knee.
It's really hard to compare two texts in a way that allows you to combine word-for-word passages.
And so you can look across studies of Plutarch, studies of Livy.
You can look across how ancient historians handle their texts.
What you see is they work in blocks.
And this is typical.
The same thing for the record.
It's true of if Luke is using Mark and Matthew or Mark and Q,
he seems to be working in blocks for the most part.
But if Mark is using Matthew and Luke,
which is the opposite theory, if Mark and priority is not true,
he's using Matthew and Luke, he has to have conflated Matthew and Luke
in a way that we don't see anyone else in antiquity doing.
And I think in a way that's really, really implausible based on everything.
Are there any scholars right now that are serious that actually take that position?
There are not scholars anymore, as far as I'm aware,
who are publishing on the synoptic problem who accept Mark and posterity.
There are a few people who work in biblical studies generally,
who don't publish on the synoptic problem usually,
who still accept Mark and posterity.
And they do so on the basis of Christian tradition.
Because, of course, they were developed early on in a tradition
that Matthew is the first gospel written by the disciple Matthew,
and Mark was a hearer of peer.
In Papias' talk.
There is actually not entirely clear that that's what's happening.
Papias may even know of Mark and priority.
If you go read how that's working.
At least that's the order in which he presents the things.
And possibly his comment about what Matthew is doing
is assuming use of Mark possibly.
That's a controversial, difficult claim.
But no, the Mark and prioritists, which is the...
Sorry, Mark and posterity, the people who deny Mark and priority,
were called the Grisbachians.
And most of the Grisbachians have now died off.
There was a scholar named William Farmer in the 1960s
who had a brief, like, tried to resurrect this view.
And he had a couple of followers.
But I think the last followers of Farmer,
the disciples of Farmer, so to speak, are gone.
And so, no, today you can find theologians
who will accept methane priority.
And that's fine.
But you don't find people who work, study the Gospels closely,
who work on the synoptic problem, who deny Mark and priority.
Interesting. Very interesting.
There's so many questions that could get, like, delve into.
And there's so much written on the topic.
Of course, Dr. Goodacre, I plan on getting him on
for the Gospel of Thomas soon.
But, you know, you definitely kind of painted that
really easy for people to see.
So, if you didn't know, now you do have an idea
what the scholarship thinks on this topic.
Thank you so much.
Absolutely. Yeah, my pleasure.
