Okay, I'm popping on here last second.
My son is about to wrestle his first match, my 13-year-old boy, about to have a wrestling
match here in just a minute.
So, I wanted to pop in with everybody and let you know that tomorrow, tomorrow we're
doing our live Q&A question and answer for everybody who signed up for the Mark course
with Dr. James D. Tabor.
Being Mark for Mark has really made me really go, what the heck is Matthew and Luke doing?
It's definitely different and you have to check out the course in order to really get
that.
So, this is a shameless plug slash live letting you know.
Go subscribe to the scholarly courses.
James Tabor's tomorrow.
So, if you sign up today, you'll have the opportunity to join us live on a Zoom call.
I hope everybody's doing well.
Let me share some of this information.
A lot of you may not even be able to pop in.
This is the course.
You guys, when you sign up, you'll actually see all of this information here with maps
and stuff.
And to give you an idea for those who are wondering, how is it?
How does it look?
So, the quality is on 0.4K.
He takes you deep and his students say that this is one of their favorite courses that
they've taken with Dr. Tabor over the years.
We're now doing it on the Internet.
You're sitting from your computer screen being able to help support the scholars that
you love and learn the stuff that you want to learn, especially if you're trying to combat
some of the silly ideas that are out there.
Like you're going to go to hell if you don't believe that kind of nonsense.
You really have some good, sufficient evidence to support you on, like, should we trust what
we're reading here to be literally true?
Let me go to lecture two.
Lecture two.
Here we are.
Lecture two.
Again, high, high quality, 4K, Dr. Tabor is an amazing scholar.
So, I'm giving you guys a shout out here, little plug.
You can go sign up now.
Early Bird Special is still out right now.
Eventually, we're going to change that, but we're doing the Q&A tomorrow.
So, for those who are tuning in, make sure you go check it out.
And the website that we're going to have many other courses, I have to let you know about
this, Creating Jesus, James Tabor.
We have, let's go to our courses here.
Where are they?
Academic online courses.
My computer is being slow.
Okay.
My computer doesn't want to open the page.
No good.
Okay.
That did not work out.
View all courses.
Here we go.
So, now we're here.
We have two other ones.
I don't think many people realize how really well edited some of these courses are.
You don't find those out there.
They're not looking as clean and as nice.
I'm David Litwa, Delcey Allison, Jr., but tomorrow, James Tabor going live again.
I am working, coming back to me, I'm working on editing right now for those, I'm giving
you kind of like a window for those who are tuning in.
I know this is not a schmancy-pingancy hardcore video.
You're getting behind the scenes real quick with me.
So, David, Dennis McDonald is doing a course around this book, his mimesis.
All of his work, connecting the Gospels and Acts to Greek literature is in this book.
Right?
Well, we have done an 18-lecture series of course, right?
Of course, that's 18 lectures long, diving into those parallels.
I have edited up to number seven, and there's some really good editing going on there.
I have, what is this, 11 more?
I've got 11 more videos to edit.
That course will be ready.
I've got one with Richard Carrier that will be ready to go out.
I have two courses that I'm about to do with Robin Faith Walsh that are about to go out.
I got to edit all this stuff, and then I've got so much more coming.
It's not even funny.
We're bringing the Ivory Tower to the YouTube world, where anyone can take these courses
as if they are in the university themselves.
You can't beat it.
Anyway, this is what I wanted to do is shamelessly plug, putting there at the pin top, sign up.
I hope to see you tomorrow.
I will be co-hosting it with Dr. Tabor, taking questions from people who sign up for the course.
The link will get emailed to you if you signed up for the course, so don't worry.
I really do hope to see you all there because this journey of learning, it's like, I've
said it before, for those who watch me, if you've ever watched magicians like David Blaine
and you wonder how they did the trick, how is this happening, what's going on?
That's how I feel learning about this material.
You realize what's going on behind the curtain.
Not what they just tell you literally, oh no, he really levitated.
He really ascended into heaven on a cloud.
Really, I'm not buying it, and I'll tell you why I'm not buying it.
I see other people ascending on clouds.
Did they ascend on clouds?
Well, our evidence is better than their evidence.
Dude, our guy and his nation really ruled the world at the time.
Anyway, that's Romulus.
We're starting to get into the idea of the Roman Empire ruling the world and the Caesars
literally modeling themselves after that.
Cut it out.
If you're someone like me and you don't buy it, give yourself reasons to be able to draw
those conclusions, because that's what the scholarship will help you do.
We're not interested in apologetic scholarship.
We're interested in critical scholarship that isn't going to favor this over all the rest
of the literature in the world and say ours is true and yours is wrong.
Seth, thank you for joining me today.
Christina, emergency remedial help?
Help?
Sorry, remedial truth.
Sorry.
Christina again says, I am really digging the recent focus on Mark so often ignored.
No joke.
No joke.
The ending, it's just what a wild, wild gospel.
I imagine I'll be wanting to do a video on my own personal, what I've walked away from
this course learning after the Q&A tomorrow at some point.
And Dr. Tabor told me, he said, D, if things go well and we have way more questions than
we can take, and we have people signing up, then we'll follow up down the road and potentially
do another Mark Q&A.
But let me drop another one on you.
He wants to do a gospel of Matthew, a gospel of Luke, Acts, and he wants to do one on John.
So you're going to want to stay tuned.
And it's not just Dr. Tabor that wants to do this, like all of our favorite academics
are going to be doing that in another thing.
So Richard C. Miller, nobody's done interviews with the guy, not even interviews.
I'm hoping to not only do interviews, but if you haven't read this book, I highly recommend
it.
I want to do a course surrounding resurrection and reception and early Christianity.
In this book, he pretty much flat out says the early Church Father Christians equated
Christianity in at least analogous terms to the sons of Zeus, Dionysus, Asclepius, Hercules,
and their beliefs and their myths and the Caesars and their apotheosis and all that
to Jesus.
And he goes and shows you that these are legends and tropes.
And he goes all the way back to Paul.
That's why my interview, which hasn't been released yet with Delcey Allison, Jr.
I asked him about Paul.
Is it likely or possible that the first Corinthians 15 creed that we talk about as a creed with
I witnessed this and that is actually a legendary trope?
Dr. Miller thinks, yeah.
He said, I admit that that's the hardest place to identify it as a trope because many people
have read it a certain way for so long, but he thinks there's a legendary trope there.
The two courses or lecture series with wonderful Robin Faith Walsh.
You don't want to miss.
I'm just excited.
And I also wanted to get everybody on here to just say, go Caleb.
My son is wrestling here at one, which is just a little while from now.
So I'm excited to go see his first wrestling match, which is like, for those who don't
know, it's not like WWE.
This is like high school Greco Roman wrestling and stuff.
Cheryl in the house.
I'm studying this now.
Dr. Tabor is an excellent teacher.
I'm loving it.
I loved it too.
I filmed it, right?
But I watched it as editing, editing the videos too.
And I was like, man, there's some depth.
He lets you have a little room to wiggle too, right?
Melody Joy in the house.
My favorite daily knowledge and learning session.
So relaxing.
All praise, myth, vision.
Things be upon you.
Robert, good to see you in the chat, Robert.
And the flying spaghetti monster.
Native atheists, thanks, Derek.
You're following the evidence where it leads.
Well, thank you.
I appreciate that.
I think that you're right.
And I'm trying.
I really am.
And if I don't know something, I should call me out if you ever hear me saying something
like I know with overconfidence or certainty.
But at the end of the day, I do want to treat all of this literature like any other literature
that I'm reading.
I'm not reading this, you know, the same way Christians have read this, right?
They have a favored perception of this particular literature.
So University of Myth, Vision.
It is MVP courses.
That is the website.
So mvp-courses.com, it's probably too small for you to see.
But we're about to have, let's see, can I see where the upcoming scholars are?
My wife's the one who made this beautiful website.
Where are they?
I'm starting.
That's affiliate program.
I'm looking through the website.
Like I don't even know where I'm at about us, our mission, our values.
Okay.
Meet the scholars.
So we've got some.
Kip Davis is coming.
That's coming soon.
You don't want to miss the Hebrew Bible stuff.
Dead Sea Scroll Scholar talking about, let me just tease you.
He uses scenes from The Game of Thrones, The Walking Dead, amazing scenes that you're
just like, what?
And he's going to, he's going to hit you hard with some stuff about ancient Israelite religion.
M. David Little, Dr. Tabor's tomorrow, Dennis McDonald, Richard Carrier, Jay Bundy, two-time
PhD on evolution.
Everybody knows Richard Carrier, Richard C. Miller.
Like we've got a lot of stuff coming, a lot of stuff.
And we've got to add to this.
So I don't know if my Robin should be up here somewhere, but we're also playing on other
stuff too.
So I wanted to come show you some loves.
I wanted to come and show you some loves.
That's what I'm doing here.
Good build, bro.
Thank you.
When the bulls play with the thunderstorm, the snakes will come out and play in the field
with the Christians.
Oh, what a merry way.
May Apolloni satayana, bless thee and keep thee.
Shalom.
Good to see you.
Pat.
Oh, come on, Derek.
You know it's an infallible text, absent any errors or contradictions.
Oh, ye of little faith.
You caught me.
Pat.
You caught me.
You caught me, my friend.
None.
Good to see you.
Captain Dad pool in the house.
Good to see you.
I'm not super late this time.
That's true.
We just started, but we're not sticking around long.
So I hate to be the bearer of bad news.
I'm running off to a wrestling match in just a moment.
I'm literally giving everyone a last chance before the final apocalypse comes in to sign
up for the course.
Tomorrow we're doing Q&A.
We're doing Q&A and we're going to hit James Tabor hard with this Gospel of Mark course.
Because I know anyone who took it, there's got to be questions that you have.
Again, back to showing you the course.
You own it for life.
You can have friends over, have sit around and let them check it out and learn.
It's in super high quality.
How do I make this full screen?
Let's see.
I don't want to unmute it because it's going to be all sounding funny because it's not
through my computer.
But I mean, it's a good course.
Anywho, back over here to y'all real quick, catching up, catching up.
Nerdy wrote it in the house.
Good to see you nerdy wrote it.
Just don't talk politics.
Keep it to religion.
I do.
I do keep it to religion.
Sometimes things might line up with political ideas, but ethically, you know, I am trying
to help make the world a better place.
But yeah, I do my best to try and avoid getting political, even though there's some things
that they cross over into that boundary.
Just humans who deserve the right to be who they are.
Those are things where I have no choice but to intercede my own thoughts along the way
and that will happen.
So please, you know, respect that, of course.
Seth High, wrestling child, Jiu Jitsu, Jiu Jitsu guy, Renzo Gracie.
Gracie was awesome.
Historically, I did a little Brazilian Jiu Jitsu when I was growing up and some other,
I did Taekwondo and a little bit of karate and I wrestled in high school and my son's
doing wrestling now.
So we're about to go to that.
Life on the mats in a microcosm of life.
Oh, wow.
I've been going through Dr. Tabor's lecture series.
It is very good looking forward to the Zoom meeting tomorrow.
Thank you.
Captain Dadpool is a good example to follow here.
I'm serious though.
You had a wonderful conversation the other night and I love that you're putting yourself
out there to have these conversations with others, including Christians.
And I hope people will go subscribe to your channel, man.
You're underrated.
You deserve more attention on the YouTube side, on the TikTok side.
I'm underrated.
I don't have anything compared to you in terms of following, but keep up the work, man.
I always appreciate you and you're on a journey just like me, trying to understand and know
what the facts seem to imply.
And I appreciate about you.
I really do.
So the webmaster, add the myth vision, uh, Fabricon to the site instead of the host
gator alligator.
I don't know what that is.
Belize's respect.
He and John Donahar were my coaches.
Oh, wow.
So you had OGs.
You had the OG.
Wow, Seth.
That's awesome.
That really is.
My dad was a huge fan of the Gracie camp and, you know, we're close quarter combat training.
My dad was special forces and stuff.
So we always, uh, you know, would be into this stuff.
And he taught us as young kids, Mark is the sound of a hairlip dog.
Thank you, Shadman.
I appreciate you.
I'm the legend.
What do you mean?
Don't talk about politics.
Christians.
I've made the religion, political fair game, math vision, um, MAGA is a cult.
I definitely see some, some definite characteristics.
And I would say a lot of people in that, uh, avenue are there, but yeah, there is overlap
no matter where you go that comes, but making it like my center focus is not politics at
all on this channel, as you well know, but there's some stuff that if you can't use like
what happens with the MAGA movement and show characteristics of it being cultic, then I
don't know.
I mean, that's just not fair to not be able to point that out.
I think that's a little bit obvious to me.
So yeah, I, I have a scholar that I want to talk to about that.
He wrote a book on this, actually, um, I just need to get up with him at some point, but
I want it to be like equated to religion and how movements are.
So I am very overrated on tick tock.
You have a pretty fast following over there facts, just joking.
Plato means fat belly.
Plato was a wrestler.
I didn't know that.
Lauren, good to see you in the chat, Lauren.
And of course, thank you, none for showing up and iron chair to your and black line
supreme in the hissy.
Speak on any issues you like, Derek, and remember, we are myth vision.
I've done it.
That's never going away.
I don't care how cheesy and corny it is.
That will always be the motto.
So we got to get used to it, right?
We just got to get used to it, Derek.
I think you put Christianity in the ICU.
I hope I put fundamentalist Christianity in the ICU, and I want to give breathing room
for those who find it somehow comforting, traditional, whatever, but the ones who want
to tell you who want to do what I used to do, those are the ones I'm trying to change
their minds.
I do want them to see and a lot of the more liberal approach to Christians will say, why
are you, why did you go all the way there if just stay tuned, stay tuned over the next
day?
I'm going to launch a video.
I just did a presentation on GCRR and atheism conference literally 30 minutes ago.
I edited a presentation and my wife said, you need to call it shadows on the wall.
You need to call it shadows on the wall, and I'm going to show you this video in the next
day or two, and I hope everybody watches it and shares it, shares it out because I put
my heart into this and like there's some serious editing involved, and I think it's
a really, really good video that will let people see into what happened with me and my
escaping the cave or exiting the cave, and I use Plato's analogy for my own life story.
So be tuned, be staying tuned.
I hope that you like it too, and let me know what you think.
Paul says, I are some myth vision too.
Mark and Jesus were both following the script of the failed one in Daniel nine.
It explains why he didn't need a resurrection story.
Jesus had to delay Jerusalem until that window of time opened.
Jesus held the sick, raised the dead, most importantly, turned water into wine.
Who would be crazy enough to kill a man that can do these things?
Doesn't add up.
Interesting point.
I think Apollonius and Ta'ana did the same thing too, and they wanted to try and kill
him. Do you think religions can be pre-scient in the mundane way that sci-fi?
Hold on.
You mean present in the mundane way?
Hold on. I don't know that word.
Let me look up that word here. Pre-scient.
Might be using big old words on me, buddy.
See, having or showing knowledge of events before they take place.
That's.
I don't think you meant to write that then, right?
Smackdab trying to get you right here.
Do you think religions can be because the idea that having knowledge before they
take place, I don't, I don't get the question on that.
If that's what you mean.
If you mean present in the same way that sci-fi sometimes is, I'm not, not sure.
I understand the statement.
Shadows on the wall.
Reference to Plato and the cave, I assume.
Absolutely.
And I think that I'd put some depth into it, you know, when was America?
Great Derek.
Yeah, good point, especially when you, I mean, there's, we were strong as a nation
in many places, but there are things about it, right?
Like who was it great to?
And how great was it for everyone?
I would say that not everybody had it great.
So.
Pre-scient.
Pre-scient.
My pronunciation.
See, I have you here to help me, iron.
Epictetus is the goat in my book.
If you keep striking me, my leg will break.
Now look, my leg is broken.
Stoic level max.
He means does it sometimes predict the future.
I wouldn't say actually predicting the future.
I would say maybe there are patterns in which people can observe.
Like I can predict that there will be another war in the future.
Oh, and famine.
Oh, and sickness.
Oh, and earthquake.
Oh, and volcano.
Oh, and tornado.
Oh, and.
It doesn't take much to do that.
You know what I mean?
As far as predicting and on some other grand scale, like no,
we humans are pattern seeking creatures.
And it's pretty simple to make some of these assumptions based on
the track record.
In fact, I tell loved ones all the time that are in active addiction
when they relapse and they get upset before they confess that they
have been in that state of mind where I'm like, Hey,
I don't know.
Why are you thinking that because nine times out of 10,
this is what you do before you relapse.
And I want to help you.
And then once they relapse and they come out,
you were right.
I know because I've seen the writing on the wall many times.
Did they have spiritual resurrection idea?
I would imagine maybe there was some type of resurrection in some
allegorical sense that could be understood in by some of them.
That's the idea.
Both John Dominic Croson and Richard C.
Miller thinks the early church kind of held to not a literal
historical Jesus actually rose using historical argumentation.
No, be the same thing.
They thought of the apotheosis of Caesars or Romulus's Ascension,
the whole nine.
Captain that will, if you follow the story,
I think it's the same thing.
Caesars or Romulus's Ascension, the whole nine.
Captain that will, if you follow the teachings as Jesus as a moral
guideline, I will support you.
But as soon as you claim that Jesus gives you authority to perpetrate
your bigotry, then we will have a problem.
Well said.
The Odyssey comparing is really interesting topic.
Without a doubt, the Odyssey, the Iliad, Virgil,
the Euripides-Bakai, this book is unfriking believable.
I'm blown away.
And Craig and Ford's in the chat.
Someone said Craig and Ford, fantastic as he does in the
prehistory.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
I thought he was in the chat.
Yeah.
I love, I love what he does.
John's a great dude.
The play sometimes throws long and short range passes,
which changed the movement.
What if Jesus was a myth-visionist?
And that's why he got Mike.
Is there a guest?
Are we having a private date with Derek T?
Get ready.
Now you're just chatting with me for one second.
I literally have to go.
My wife's literally going to kill me if I don't.
I love you all.
Please take the time.
Please sign up.
Tomorrow is like, it's cut off, right?
Tomorrow for the Q&A.
Now, I hope you will all be there.
I am going to be there with James Tabor hosting it.
And you can go blast through these courses so you can be
prepared for tomorrow's live Q&A, asking James whatever
questions we want to do.
The website here, the main website,
but this is what you'll get.
The landing page will look like this,
which is pinned at the top of the chat.
Go sign up and you will get notified with an email,
with the Zoom link to join us live.
I hope to see everybody there.
Because the cutoff and the apocalypse is nigh,
I must do an apocalyptic outro.
Hit the like button.
I love you all.
Seriously, thank you for being such a great community
and being great people.
I'm just following on the journey with different ideas
along the way.
But being patient with me and never forget,
we are MythVision.
Root my son on the wrestling match and let me know,
ask me next time if you won or not.
