Hi, this is Cameron Riley. I'm the writer and director of the documentary Marketing the Messiah
where we explore how a fringe Jewish sect from the backwaters of the Roman Empire
took over the world. And here's my interview with Derek coming up in a second.
Join our Patreon.
Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, your host Derek Lambert.
Today we're going to talk about marketing the Messiah, the new release, the movie.
It's a really good movie. You guys, if you haven't seen it yet,
go down in the description, go right now and watch it. You can rent it as little as $4.99.
You get it for like 72 hours. I really, really recommend anyone who's not,
I guess you say, especially during the quarantine, it's very important you guys have something to do.
This is the best time, but you really need to see it because it takes an academic approach
and it makes it so simple and fun. And there's a lot of meat and then a lot of humor. So today
we have someone I really am excited about this, but Cameron Riley has joined me today.
How are you doing, my brother? Yeah, very good. Thanks Derek. Thanks for having me on.
Let's jump right into this. So what led you to make this this movie and we'll start there and
work our way into more of the juicy meaty stuff? Well, look, I've been fascinated with the history
of Christianity for 30 years, I guess it's been just a hobby. You know, I'm not a scholar,
but I've read lots over the years and tried to get my head around it and I've read all sorts of
theories and tried to and it's of course one of those subjects that it's very easy to get sucked
in and to go deep down lots of different rabbit holes. And every time you read a book, it leads to
another theory or idea. But about four or five years ago, a film producer called me up or emailed
me actually, then we had a phone call. He'd been listening to one of my podcasts. So my bread and
butter for the last 15 years has been making podcasts. Typically I do a lot of deep history
podcasts on ancient Greece, ancient Rome, other subjects. And he'd been listening to my podcast
on Julius Caesar. And in that, I often joked about how Julius Caesar was the original JC
who got betrayed by his best friends and then, you know, rose from the dead three days later,
etc., etc., and preached turning the other cheek, which is what got him into trouble in the first
place. I used to make a lot of these gags. And this guy emailed me, called me up, he said,
listen, I want to make a documentary about this subject, the connection between Julius Caesar
and Jesus Christ. And I said to him, look, honestly, I don't think there's enough in
that to make a film about it. However, there is a story I would like to tell, because what I
discovered over the years in, every time I tried to bring up the subject of the history of early
Christianity with my friends, it didn't go well. My friends and family that are Christians, and I
have a lot of Christian friends and family, they either weren't interested. Or when I talked to
them about the stuff I'd been reading in scholarship books, they didn't believe me. They thought I
was making it up some sort of crazy atheist theory. If I tried to talk to my atheist friends,
they would just dismiss it, not interested, not interested, boo, religion, yuck, disgusting.
And I'd be like, well, hold on a second, you're interested in Julius Caesar, right? Yeah, of
course. Well, you know that he was worshiped as a God. So what's the difference between
that history and this history, and particularly Christianity, of course, is such an important
part of the history of Western civilization to dismiss it as not being important or relevant,
I think is a huge mistake. So, you know, we tried to come up with an idea for a film that would be
accessible to both of those audiences, accessible and entertaining to tell the story of, as I like
to say, how this fringe Jewish personality cult from the backwaters of the Roman Empire ended up
taking over the world and took us four years, and the film's now available. That's awesome.
That really is. I started the video, and at first I'm like, where is he going to take this?
I had no clue what you were going to do. You had all the Jesuses popping up on the screen,
and I knew right away when you had all the Jesuses popping in and you started to speak,
I said, okay, he's about to take us into something fascinating. We all have a visual
of Jesus, but you're really trying to figure out, based on my perception, maybe correct me if I'm
wrong here, you're really trying to figure out what we can know, the most we possibly really
can know about this guy. By the end of the video, I was actually educated on some things and thought
about it. I had heard about progressive ideas between gospels and the later gospels have a
more deification concept, but the way that you explained it was really interesting, the mystery
school approach. You didn't get too far into that. We briefly discussed that last night,
and I was like, man, so you're going to have more than just this this movie. So anyone watching
needs to go see the movie, but there's going to be more clips, the cut scenes that are going to be
available at some point with some of these scholars. What were you thinking? Also, you got
atheist scholars, and then you got Christians. What's going on here Cameron? Talk to me brother.
Well, I knew from the beginning that this film couldn't be me talking about
the story because I have no credibility. I'm just a storyteller. No one's going to listen to me.
And obviously, if you want Christians to take it seriously, you have to have Christian biblical
scholars. And for the atheists, you want to have some atheist biblical scholars or ancient historians
involved as well. And one of the decisions that I made early on in the production was that we
were only going to have PhD level scholars involved in this, no theologians, no theorists to do it as
a hobby. Okay, we have one guy we have David Fitzgerald in because I like Dave and I wanted to
have somebody in there who is a storyteller, because quite often scholars aren't the best
communicators. And I wanted to have somebody in there who would spend a lot of time working on
this who could talk about it comfortably. And that was the role of myself and David.
But the rest of the people in the film are PhD scholars and I tried to get a pretty even balance
of Christian scholars and non-believer scholars. There's a couple of them that I don't actually
even know if they're Christians or not because I didn't ask and they were shady about it.
They didn't really tell me and they didn't offer it, I didn't ask. But I wanted it to be as balanced
as it could possibly be. So nobody really had any legitimate reason to complain about it being
skewed one way or the other. I respect that. And I understand that, especially when you get into
different things in the video with the Petrine or the Pillars and Paul. Goodness gracious, you took
us on a ride there. I've been saying for quite some time and it's not just me, like I'm very much
like you. I'm not an academic. I don't have the credentials. I plan to at some point, probably
put a PhD before my name. I do want to be able to say with that kind of knowing, you know,
obviously what I'm trying to research and have that kind of thing. But I'm with you,
people look at me and go, ah, dude, what do you know? And I'm just reading the top dogs.
And I'm reading all over. And these guys say very much the similar things that you present in this
movie. And even a lot of Christians will agree with much of the things that you might say. However,
the Book of Acts likes to patch things over. And so that's their remedy to the problem, I think.
And maybe you can touch on that a little bit. I don't want to give too much away. This is your
movie, so. Well, another one of the things that I wanted to demonstrate as much as possible in a
90 minute film is that Christian scholars and non-Christian scholars, biblical experts, tend to
agree on the basics. Of course, there's always people who disagree with this or that. You know,
Mark Goodacre, who's in the film, doesn't believe in Q, etc. But generally speaking, in terms of
Mark and priority, in terms of the division between Paul and Peter and James, in terms of how the
Gospels, well, the major books of the New Testament, starting with Paul, going through Mark, Matthew,
Luke, John, and Acts in there as well, they kind of build on each other. You know, the version of
Jesus that Paul gives us is different in some striking and significant ways from the version
that we get from Mark, and then that's different again from Matthew. And of course, the high
Christology builds over time. But the facts are that, at least as far as I'm aware, from the
reading that I've done over the last 30 years, the majority of scholars today agree on the basics.
But again, most of my Christian friends don't seem to know that. They are still shocked, a lot of
them, when you help them understand that Paul is the earliest writing. They're still shocked by the
fact that Paul didn't know Jesus. As Mark Goodacre, and all of the scholars agree with this, by the way,
but he says it in the film, most Christians don't read the Bible. They read bits and pieces.
And if they do read it, they don't read it as an historical document. They tend to, you know,
read it for, you know, comfort or courage or to try and understand this point or that point.
But they don't read it as an historical document, or they don't think about it deeply
as an historical document. So I wanted to demonstrate that there is a lot of thinking
been done about this over the last 200 years. And scholars today, across the board, the consensus
is anyway that there is this progression, that the idea of who Jesus was and what Jesus meant
developed. And of course, you know, it didn't just stop with the books of the New Testament,
you know, that thinking and debate around Jesus went on for centuries still goes on today
to a lesser extent. If you go and talk to Mormons, you'll get a different story than if you go and
talk to a Catholic. But, you know, it was very confused. There was a lot of very important
and angry debates going on for century after century after century. And I find that fascinating.
But again, a lot of my Christian friends and family seem to not know that. And I hope that
they will watch the film and it'll give them an interest in learning more about how Christianity
developed, particularly in that first 100 to 150 years. I agree 100 percent. I think it's
important, even at the very least, when I was a Christian, I can only speak from my subjective
experience is that I would at least encourage someone who's watching to go try and disprove
what's presented, you know, if at the very least have your motivations be like, I got to disprove
this video. Cool. Awesome. Go out of your way. Try to critique the scholars who present this
information and what they say and discredit it. Do your best to try and discredit it.
I would challenge anybody to do that, but I'm pretty positive that one of the things that
they usually do is the riff between the James, Peter and Paul sect. As you discuss in the video,
I don't want to give too much weight. These guys were not just bromeos, you know, these guys were
not just, hey dude, no man, I'm not agreeing with you right now, but later on we can have a kosher
pickle and let's drink some wine. No. I think someone told me recently, women scholars can pick up on
the sensitivity and like the nuances and attacks better than men and they were saying that even
the gospel writers, the synoptics, that they can tell that they don't like each other. They can
tell in the wordings. They know of each other in the synoptics and they're not, they don't like
each other. Now, of course, Mark doesn't, we're not aware of them. Mark knows of anybody, but
Luke and Matthew seem to be very well aware of each other and saying, no, not okay. I'm not okay
with that gospel. And I think the same is easily shown, easily shown between Paul and this Petron
James situation and I don't, I don't think that could be under, how do you, you need to investigate
that thoroughly and I don't think the church is going to share exactly the depth at which that
issue was taking place, at least in Paul's own writings with what we have. Cameron, you actually
in the video bring a lot of humor to the table. Was that on purpose? Did you do that on purpose
to try and lighten up the toughness of this kind of movie? Yeah, well, not just with this movie.
One of the things I've learned in doing history podcasts over the last 15 years is that, look,
most people, if you ask them what their experience was going through school learning history,
they found it dry, they found it boring. And consequently, I think a lot of people don't
have an interest in learning history as an adult. And if you watch a history documentary on
the history channel or something like that, they tend to be very dry facts, figures,
dates, all this kind of stuff. But actually, when you study history, it's fascinating. And there's
a lot of, it's all about usually sex and violence. And so in my podcasts, we tend to enjoy that
aspect of it. And we bring a lot of humor because I think that it makes it easier to learn. Teaspoon
of sugar makes the medicine go down. If you can laugh while you're learning something,
it tends to help the learning process, I think. So yeah, look, I've learned to bring a lot of
humor, but this was difficult. Quite honestly, the humor in my history shows is usually extremely
profane. And there's a lot of swearing, and there's a lot of, we get called schoolboy humor in it,
because we're really grey-haired 16-year-old boys at the end of the day. And we like to laugh about
people's sexual behavior and their genitalia a lot. With this, obviously, I couldn't go that far,
and I had to pull it back a lot to make it accessible to our, hopefully, Christian,
some Christian audience. But yes, I didn't want to treat this as a subject that needs to be handled
with white gloves. I think you should be able to have a good time. You should be able to be
entertained while you're learning about history, even if it's the history of a religion. And I
understand that some people will get offended by that. They don't like our poster. They don't
like our title. But come on, I mean, I think if you can't have a laugh when you're learning about
the history of a religion, then there's something wrong with you. So yes, we did bring a lot of
humor. There's a lot of animation. There's a lot of subtle jokes in it. But I just hope that people,
it's not, people aren't going to fall over laughing when they watch it. But I hope they'll
get a smile every now and again, and it will keep them engaged.
All right, Cameron, you talked about, you don't mind me calling you, Cameron, do you?
As opposed to what?
I could call you a doctor. No, I'm just kidding with you. I don't know. What do you like to be
called? Cam? No, Cameron's good. Yeah, that's fine. Cameron's good. Yes, sir. So when you went to make
this, obviously, you're the producer here, you got to connect the dots. You got to get the scholars,
and you ring some people up and you say, hey, you want to be part of a movie.
How did that process go? And then how did you get these guys to come together?
Yeah, that was the trickiest bit, obviously. I'm a complete unknown for these people. And,
you know, I think making a film as delicate as this, we weren't sure that scholars, particularly
the Christian scholars, would sign up for it. I was quite confident that Robert Price would,
because Robert and I have got a history. He'd done some podcasts with me years ago.
But the rest of the, you know, the list of scholars, I wasn't sure. But I said, look,
we'll start with a list of 100. And some of them will say yes, and we'll work with the ones that
will. And I was fortunate enough that at least a half a dozen Christian scholars agreed to be
part of it. They may now regret that, but hopefully not. Hopefully they see some value in it. And I
certainly appreciated their contribution. Of course, one of the first scholars we reached out to was
Bart Ehrman. I don't always agree with Bart's position on things, but I've enjoyed his books
and his lectures over the years. I reached out to Bart and said, listen, I'm going to bring a camera
crew to your hometown. And I'd love to get some time for you to, if you could take some time to
sit down with us for an hour. Unfortunately, Bart replied back very politely that he was too busy.
And so we weren't able to get Bart to give up his time, but we did try hard.
I think we managed to do it without him, though, in the end. Unfortunately, he is not on camera,
though. That really sucks. I mean, you were right down the street from the guy and you had guys flying
in from all over. You had Dr. Carrier, you had, obviously, Dr. Price, you had David Fitzgerald,
David lives in California. I don't know how hard it is to go 15 minutes down the road to
spend one hour on a movie. You know, I'm not trying to be funny. I just think that the more
exposure, especially when he's had one hell of a book, Heaven and Hell, he just released,
this would be the best time to even mention or have even a split where he could agree with you
and say, hey, as long as you can allow me to mention my new book in this, whatever, something,
you probably would work with that. But I don't know. Anyway. Yeah, he did say, I think he was
finishing the book at the time and he was quite busy. And look, he's sort of a rock star and
biblical scholarship circles as much as you have rock stars in these circles. So like, I get it.
He's a big deal. He is, he is. And I mentioned him often. I think people think I have a distaste
for the guy. No, I listened to him. I learned from him. He is brilliant. And who knows down the
road, I might end up, you know, closer to his position. But at this moment, I'm not quite there
yet. But maybe I'm just not learning it. And I've got a long ways to go. Cameron, let's shift gears
then since we talked about some of these guys. When you when you started to get into
the development of these, these texts and the issues that you're finding out later on in the movie,
because that's when it starts to get really, really juicy to me. Everyone's going to have
their favorite parts, you know what I mean? Later on, you get, it gets really juicy. There's a lady.
What is her name? She seems like she might even be someone who's in Christianity herself
that you have as a scholar. The older lady, we've got two, but I think the older lady,
AJ Levine, Amy Jill. She's a Jewish biblical scholar, very, very well known and very much
respected. She was very stern, you know, she said what she meant, meant what she said, and that's
what was really powerful. She goes right along with this in many ways. Now, she seems a little bit
bit more conservative on her approach to Jesus than maybe someone like Dr. Bob and Dr. Carrier
were. But did she also agree with your thesis at the end of the day? Or does she, is she now finding
out, oh, I see what this movie is about? I actually haven't spoken to AJ since the film was completed.
I've emailed her a couple of times. I haven't heard back, but I asked AJ to come in specifically her
and another couple of scholars to touch on certain subjects. And in particular with AJ, I wanted to
talk about where Judaism was at in the early first century, because I don't think you can really
appreciate or understand the genesis of Christianity without understanding the
level of anxiety there was in Judaism around Jerusalem and Judea in particular in that period,
also in Alexandria. But in Judea with the fact that they had just become formally a part of the
Roman Empire after century after century of their prophets promising that they were God's chosen
people and he had their back and he was going to look after them and they were going to conquer
their oppressors and they were going to take over the world. It just kept getting worse and worse
and worse until finally, of course, in the great Jewish Roman war and 66 to 70 CE, the temple gets
destroyed. You think about one of the analogies that I often use is imagine if the Muslims
managed to invade Rome and destroy the Vatican back during the Great Wars of the Middle Ages,
or today imagine that the Vatican was destroyed and the psychological and emotional impact that
would have on Catholics, but then you have to take it up a notch because of course for
Jews in the first century, they didn't just believe the temple was a pretty building where the
Sadducees did their business. They actually believe that Yahweh resided in the inner sanctum. So
what kind of a God do you have when these heathen pagan Romans can just march in and destroy
God's house? That must have been incredibly traumatic and I think when you understand the
level of trauma that the Jews were going through in that period before the temple and then after
the temple destruction, you start to realize that they had to be searching for something new,
something different. And we already know that there are a variety of different branches or
sects of Judaism, the Sadducees, the Pharisees, the Essenes, the fourth one, whatever that was
that Josephus mentions. There's probably many more of those as well. As today, there are hundreds
of different versions of Christianity and they all think that they're the right one.
It's quite possible that there were many different small Judaic sects in the first
century that were all trying to figure out, well, obviously we're doing something wrong here
because things aren't getting better. They're just getting worse and obviously Yahweh is not
happy with us. We're doing the same old thing but it's just getting worse and worse so we've
got to do something different. So I brought AJ and a few other scholars in who specialize in
those sorts of questions to help me try and understand what was going on in Judaism in that
period and how it may have led to this new form of Judaism, which of course is what Christianity
was originally. The Jesus sect was a new spin on Judaism. I'm glad you took us in this direction
because this is where we start getting into meat in my opinion. This is where the rubber hits the
road. This idea that the temple is now down, there needs to be a form of worship still. If
you're a monotheist, God does not not exist. I mean, he still exists. There's not my God doesn't exist
or other gods are more superior. They can't let that go. That's like the foundational presupposition
to the Jewish idea. You did a really good job of mentioning this. This has been my own personal
journey. I came into this thing and I mentioned this often. I got to mention it to you because
you mentioned this in the video and I think this is pertinent to the topic. You talk about 70 AD,
you talk about the war, which is pivotal, a very pivotal moment in why I think Christianity even
became important. I don't think it would have ever came off the ground the way that it did if there
wasn't that pathway cleared by a temple being brought down. What we have is this, there's a
teaching called full preterism. I don't know if you've ever heard of it, but you mentioned this in
your video about the idea that Jesus promised to come back. Dr. Airman, other people, this is a
prophecy. Dr. Price, all that. There's a group called full preterist that say Jesus kept his word,
or at least literary wise, they say he kept his word. Now this might touch briefly on Joseph
Atwell's idea on the fact that he said he would and he did or something of the sort did where
Titus comes instead. There's a movement that thinks that Jesus spiritually or some type of
metaphor way comes. I'm glad you took it the direction that you did though because there were
various different types of Christianity and I wanted to say in that idea, in that vein before we,
because I want to hand this off to you to kind of comment on this, it appears that the same way
there's an evolution of thought that progressively develops in Christianity as many sects are currently
going on, there's an evolution of thought on how to resolve the issue of did he come and why did
he show up? What's going on here? They seem to be going well, you know, the Lord is not slack
concerning his promise, second Peter. He's coming, a day is like a thousand years. Come on guys,
you know, do you have any thoughts on that? Yeah, a lot of the film goes into detail trying to explain
how it's quite evident when you read Paul's epistles that Paul firmly believed that Jesus
was going to return and we can debate what he meant by return, but he was going to come
and, you know, bring about the destruction of the world and take everybody who was a believer in
him to a better place within Paul's lifetime. He's very clear on that, he states it a number of times.
Then we go to Mark, whoever wrote Mark decades later believes the same thing, but within
his lifetime, so too with Matthew, so too with Luke. Decades has passed, certainly the early
members of the Jesus sect cult are dead, probably the vast majority of them at this stage, so at
some point, I mean, they have to start rejigging what this actually all means, but it's very clear
when you read the New Testament that these guys believe that Jesus was going to return and,
you know, if you take Paul at his word, Jesus told him that. Jesus told him the end of the world was
going to happen within his lifetime and Paul was going around preaching that to his churches,
so it's extremely embarrassing that this didn't come to pass. So obviously by the time John is
written late 1st, early 2nd century, they're starting to say, well, listen, don't worry about
that, forget that, it doesn't matter that he didn't come back. What matters is what happens when we
die. And so it kind of pivots and, you know, it manages not only to survive that, but then it has a
whole new thing to sell people. I mean, they'd always been talking about, you know, eternity in
heaven and paradise and as I point out in the film, that was a fairly new idea for the Greco-Roman
people. The Greco-Roman religions didn't really offer you eternity in paradise unless you were a
great king or a great hero. You might get to go to Elysium, but for everyone else, they didn't really
have much to say about it. Even Judaism didn't really have much to say about heaven. So to go
around, particularly to the poor people in the Empire and say, listen, I know your life sucks
right now, but it's okay. Just persist, push through, believe in Jesus and you'll get your reward
when you die. This was a fairly dramatic invention that obviously appealed to a lot of people then,
as it appeals to billions of people still today. But it's quite obvious that Paul was wrong. The
writers of Mark, Matthew, Luke were wrong. They believed the end of times was going to happen.
And if you believe, as a lot of people still do, that those gospels are an accurate record of what
an historical Jesus actually told his disciples, then Jesus was wrong, which is a pretty profound
thing. And as a number of the scholars say in the film, that's been a source of great anxiety
for Christianity, particularly for its deepest thinkers and theologians for, you know,
nigh on 2000 years. They've been trying to come to terms with, well, what did he mean and how could
Jesus be wrong? But again, this is one of those things that I think a lot of Christians don't
really stop and think about very often. Cameron, excellent, excellent. Yes, I'm with you 100%. I
think that I was once convinced as a Christian, I had a choice, believe Jesus and what he said,
and that he did come back in some way. I had to redefine what these things meant.
The end of the world, well, the age, the age was only a timeframe and it had to do with,
I define other ways around to keep my book protected. And there are other explanations
that make sense of some things, but I asked Dr. Price before, I said, hey, did they think this
was really going to end in fire, like literally, like did the Jews think that the world was going
to end in fire and stuff? And he says, it sure appears that they really did because they got
this stuff from Zoroastrians and Zoroastrians were extremely apocalyptic. And they, and I'm like,
oh, you with your bomb dropping, man, like no pun intended, but he constantly drops these bombs.
And I'm like, oh, man, this is interesting, because now we can really get where the Jews
get their ideas from. And then there are other sects, like even the Pythagorean sects of thought,
that took things into a postmortem situation. So you have, you know, their pick, I wonder if
there's various sects of Christianity and one sect saying, hey, after you die, and another one
saying, it's going to happen in this lifetime because he promises. And then all of a sudden,
it doesn't happen in a lifetime. Well, this sect wins because this one is wrong. Now they all got
to collide into that group. I think the Jehovah's Witnesses or Seventh Day of Venice, I think did
this in the 1800s. The Lord's coming back on this day at this time. And he didn't come to the one
group. So the one group said, well, our prophet was wrong. The other one couldn't accept that. And
they said, he did come. It was just spiritual. You didn't see it. So we always have explanations.
My question is, in this vein of thought, because it seems like an evolutionary thought,
even religion cannot, I guess you could use the evolutionary model to really see how
religions become and develop. The same thing happened with the earliest sect of Christianity,
or a version of the earliest sect of, I don't even know if we can call it Christianity,
but it was a proto version of something. It seemed Jewish only in certain aspects that we
find, at least in Matthew. I came only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Would you comment
on that? Well, I think that's another one of the things that a lot of Christians tend to either not
be aware of or just kind of ignore or paper over. But again, it's very clear when you
read these books with your brain turned on that it appears that Peter and James
were of the point of view that this movement, the Jesus movement, was for Jews. You could convert,
but you had to become a full Jew. You had to obey the laws of Leviticus. You had to get
circumcised. You had to sacrifice at the temple, eat kosher food, etc. And Paul, in his epistles,
points out that he disagreed with this and that he sort of had tense words with Peter and James
during his first meeting with them about this. Now, it seems that at some point either they came
to an agreement that, okay, forget all of this stuff that Jews have been preaching for a thousand
years. Let's just toss that out. But you have to think that, okay, so Paul didn't know Jesus. Peter
and James did know Jesus if Jesus was an historical personage. So you would have to think that if
Jesus meant that his teachings were available to the Gentiles and they didn't have to convert,
that Peter and James would have known that. It's not the kind of thing that you would skip over.
Right? And yet, here we are, decades after he's died, and they're arguing with Paul about this.
Paul, who of course never knew the earthly Jesus. So this seems to be a very big deal. By my reading
of the Gospels, if you want to be a good member in good standing of the Jesus movement, you have
to be a Jew. And if you're not, as we say in the film, you're just doing Jesus wrong. But of course,
one thing we know happened is when the Jewish-Roman war happened, that original Jesus set, the one
that was built by Peter and James, was either destroyed or we never hear from them. I mean,
I was going to say we never hear from them again, but we never heard from them the first place.
There's nothing written down by that original sect. There's nothing written down that's
considered authentic by scholars, by Peter or James, or anybody else from their community.
So we don't really know what they thought about this. We can only pick it up through hints in the
Gospels and Paul's talking about his arguments with them. Of course, they either were destroyed,
or they got the hell out of dodge, and we don't know really what happened to them. Some of them
may have turned into the Ebyonites, but we don't really know. What we do know is that Paul's version
survived because they probably weren't considered Jews at this stage. It was a gentle movement.
By and large, there would have been some Jews involved, but by and large, there was a gentle
movement by the late first century. Paul's community was. So they're the last men standing
when all this goes down. Ever since then, and of course, the Gospels are all mostly Pauline
in terms of their teaching. Matthew does try and read Judea eyes, the story that he gets out of
Mark. But still, it's very Pauline in its level of teaching. So it really seems like the original
version of it, as far as I can tell, was for Jews and only Jews. That if what Jesus taught,
if he existed, as certainly what the Peter and James community taught, was that you had to be
a full member of Judaism in order to get access to the things that Jesus was promising.
That's my reading of it as well. I'm seeing the same conclusions. The 12 tribes of the
House of Israel, the lost tribes, were the Jews at this time. I mean, this is a fascinating part
of your video. This movie, it just gripped me right then when you started getting into
the Jewish only ideas and then it progressively opened the door. If it worked for Paul, or a
version, somebody like Paul, whether he was the original Gentile go to guy, he's the one with
the name on the front of the letters, you know. So regardless, he might have hijacked it from
someone else who was already doing it. We don't know. But I do find that that makes the most
sense of the evidence that we have. And you take us on this great journey, but there's
stuff that you had to cut. You had to cut some stuff. And this has to do with mystery schools.
And is there anything else that you've had to have cut that you thought, man, I wish we could
have had that, but it is what it is. Yeah, well, the original version of the script was about 10
times as long as the film that's out there. You know, I think my first day of filming with scholars
was in Australia. And, you know, the questions that I had for them, these interviews were going
for like three to four hours long. And I quickly realized there's no way this is going to get
into the film. So I had to cut it right down to the bare bones. And then even in the editing process,
I think the first version of the film was two and a half hours long, and I had to cut an hour out
of it. So, you know, my co-producers were very militant with me on that and say, no, that's
got to go. This has got to go. So yeah, one of the things that I did really want to have in there
was talking about the evidence that these early versions of Christianity exhibited a lot of the
talking points that you would associate, I think, with a mystery religion. It seems to me that
early Christianity was some sort of syncretized mystery religion that took bits of Judaism
and bits of Greco-Roman pagan religions. And I think some of the evidence for that, as Bob Price
pointed out during our interview with Bob, and by the way, we got like two hours with Bob,
and I think about five minutes of it ends up in the film. So the rest of it will come out as a
podcast or behind the scenes stuff at some stage because it was all fabulous. You know what he's
like. He gets in a groove and, you know, he just, he's 20 minutes later, he takes a breath.
But, you know, he points out that, well, you know, you can see it in the Eucharist.
You know, when you say, eat the grain, this is my body, and drink the blood, drink the wine,
this is my blood. Well, that's obviously the grain is a remnant from an agricultural god.
There would be his body, and the wine being his blood is obviously evidence of, you know,
Dionysus kind of, you know, great vineyard religion, and these things made their way in.
And of course, you know, when you first, when you first read that sort of stuff, eat my body,
drink my blood, for me, in the 21st century, reading that stuff has the same reaction that it
must have had to people in the Greco-Roman world back then. It sounds horrifying, and it sounds
like a form of cannibalism. It's, it's disgusting. And, you know, there was people at the time that
accused Christians of being cannibals as a result of that. Now, today we sort of think of it as,
well, it's not just symbolism, you know, there's this whole idea of trans-substantiation,
et cetera, et cetera, built in, and we've kind of, we've had 2000 years to, you know, I was a little
kid doing my Holy Communion, my Catholic church in Australia, and they would give me the bread,
and we would drink the stuff. And yeah, as a seven-year-old, I didn't really question
how weird and creepy that was. But so there's evidence of that. And then, of course, when you
get to Mark, as we talk about in the film, the very first time Jesus ever speaks to anyone in
any of the Gospels, or in the New Testament, of course, because the Gospels are where he talks,
is in Mark chapter four, and he goes out into the Sea of Galilee with his inner circle.
He gets away, there's a crowd around him, and he runs away from the crowd and jumps on a boat
and sails out, and he says to his disciples, listen, I'm only going to talk to them, the great
unwashed, in parables, because, he says, if they knew the truth, they'd want to get saved. I'm going
to reserve my real teachings for you. Now that, when I first read that with my brain turned on,
my jaw hit the ground for a number of reasons. Number one, what kind of Messiah doesn't want the
people to be saved? Why doesn't he want these people to know the truth so they can be saved?
That's shocking. Secondly, what the hell is the secret that he's going to tell his inner circle?
Because he never tells us, Mark never tells us what the secret is. And of course, every scholar
I sat down with, I go, so what we would talk about, Mark chapter four, and I'd go, also, what is
the secret? And they go, well, maybe it's that he was the Messiah, but again, as we point out in the
film, to Jews in the early first century, the Messiah could have meant a number of different
things. But the most popular interpretation of what the Messiah was going to be was a great
warrior king in the line of King David. And I mean, like King David, not the bloodline, but
a great warrior who would come with a sword and an army and defeat their enemies. So, if that was
Jesus the Seeker, well, obviously, he was a complete failure because he didn't do that.
So, that's shocking for all those reasons. But there's this hint there, straight out of the gate.
Mark tells us that everything they're going to tell the great unwashed, they're going to tell
them parables. They're not going to tell them the truth straight up, they're going to tell them in
parables. Now, that sounds like what we know about a mystery religion. It's a bit like Freemasons,
or the Mormons, or Scientology today. You know, you have the kind of gentle, softened up,
sanitized teachings, the feel-good messages that you might give, like when you go to a
Scientology temple for the first time, church, and they give you the things to hold on to. And
it's like, well, you've got some anxiety and you've got some stress. You've obviously
done some bad stuff in your life and you're worried about that. And we can help you with
that and make it. Would you like to be happier? Sure. You don't learn about Xenu when you first
get in. You have to go right up through the levels before you get the real teachings. And
if you're a Mormon, you know, you don't really learn that if you're a good Mormon for your
entire life, when you die, you might get your own planet and become a God of that planet, or that
God has a wife. And you don't learn all of this, what they call deep doctrine. My wife grew up in
Utah, so I'm well versed in Mormon theology. You don't learn about that kind of stuff. These are
secret teachings that are reserved for people that are deeply, deeply committed. But what seems
to be happening, and Richard Carrier points this out in the film, what seems to happen with the
Gospels is what was previously a bit of a mystery religion. It was a secret cult. After the temple
gets destroyed and the Gospel of Mark gets written, these secrets tend to start to get written down.
They start to leak out. Probably, if that's true, if that theory is true, it would have been very,
very shocking. And whoever wrote Mark would have had to have written it anonymously, because he
probably would have been punished and executed for leaking out these secret teachings. And then,
of course, as the Gospels progress, more and more of these secret teachings that were probably
originally reserved for the inner sanctums start to leak out. But just the very fact that straight
out of the gate, Mark says, we're not going to tell you the truth. I think suggests that, combined
with the agricultural references in Paul and the Eucharist, tends to suggest to me that there was
something going on there that we're not really aware of that's kind of been filtered out over 2000
years, unfortunately, because it would be fascinating to know a lot more about how those, what the
authors of those statements really meant by them and where they came from, where they were derived
from originally. Absolutely amazing and well put. In fact, I don't think if I tried to say what you
just said, I could say it as eloquently as you just did, that was really, really well said,
which takes me to something that you pointed out that Dr. Price said that just, and it goes in with
all that you've mentioned here. What is like a journey of my own and myth vision podcast is kind
of has this little thing about trying to figure out the Jesus cult. When you look at this Dionysus
and grain ritual, which goes back to Osiris and goes back to a variety of different mystery
cults, and you see they're eating the God, they're drinking of the God, they're eating of the God.
When we see that, we find that in the Gospels predominantly, not saying that there isn't
reference to it, this ritual in Pauline literature, but it's obviously well said in the Gospels,
and it comes from the mouth of the man himself. What gets me is if this ritual is a agricultural
ritual. Regardless if you think there was a man behind the curtain, historically, this Dionysus
agricultural ritual of dying and rebirth, where does the concept, and this is the
heart of Christianity, death burial resurrection come from, does the typical historical approach
and analysis of this? Well, this is a Jew who died in the first century, his body went missing,
so they really thought this guy, cognitive dissonance is what's making them rabbit
trail after this guy, as Dr. Ehrman and other people say. I'm not convinced. I'm not going to
say that that's not possibly a plausible explanation. There are many possible avenues,
but to me, there are clues in the mystery school aspect that you're trying to hint at here,
that I've been asking sellers on my channel for quite some time, what are alternate theories to
explain away the three day, three night situation and the tomb situation? Like how do we look at
that without having to look at it the way that we've been told to look at it? Because these leaked
out things that were originally known to the initiates now aren't understood probably the way
that the original initiates understood them. So now you've got doctrines, creeds, etc saying this
is how you need to understand it and maybe they don't really know what it really meant to begin
with. What are your thoughts on that? Well, look, I think it's stating the obvious that we don't
really understand very much about what the early writers and the people that precede the early
writers were really trying to communicate with any of this. We do know though, let me get back
to something you mentioned, Bart before, one of the issues that I have with Bart's stuff is he
points to, as do a lot of Christian scholars, the idea of the crucified Messiah and how
that it must be true that these early followers believed that a man called Jesus had been crucified
because it would be too embarrassing to make that up because you wouldn't expect your great leader,
your great Messiah to be executed like that by Romans. It's so embarrassing that it must be true.
I don't buy that and I'll tell you why. It's been incredibly successful. That's why I don't buy it.
I mean, it hasn't been embarrassing. In fact, it's been probably the most successful meme in human
history. So the very fact that it has been so successful tends to suggest that either accidentally
or deliberately, they crafted a story that just resonated deeply. And when you think about, touch
on this in the film, when you think about it as Jesus' crucifixion as a human sacrifice to an angry
God, which is an idea that has been in nearly every primitive culture around the world from the
dawn of time. The fact that that was such a popular idea means that it resonates inside of humans at
a very, very deep level. And of course, the kind of people that cultures in South America, etc.,
the Aztecs would sacrifice were the best people, sons and daughters of kings and nobility, because
you wanted to give up a great sacrifice to the God. Now, of course, by the time early Christianity
came along, human sacrifice, which had been a part of early Roman culture and had been a part of early
Judaism as well, even Abraham was willing to kill his son Isaac to please his God.
They had been out of fashion for some time, but this idea of sacrifice deeply resonates with us
today. And all you have to do is look at Hollywood films to see that it is still true today. How many
films use this as a mechanism to get you to feel a deeper emotion? I remember being a kid and seeing
the original version of the Poseidon adventure, you're probably too young to have seen that. It
was like one of these late 70s tragic sort of films and there's Boat Sink, Sala, the Titanic,
and Gene Hackman, one of the great actors, plays this guy who survives and he's a complete asshole,
complete dick through the whole thing, just mean and surly to everyone. And then the half a dozen
last Gregglers managed to get up and they see the rescue crew when they're opening a portal
and they're able to get out and they're struggling up this walkway that's almost vertical, but there's
a gas leak that's shooting hot gas across the walkway and they can't get past. The only way to
turn it off, somebody needs to jump off of the walkway down and grab the valve and turn it off
and Hackman does it, turns it off and then just smiles and lets go and falls to his death. I
remember watching that as a kid and it had a hugely profound effect on me that this man would
sacrifice himself, give his life for these other people. And then we see it in the Titanic film
that James Cameron did where DiCaprio lets whatever a name is sit on the board and in one of the
Batman movies, Batman with Bane, whatever that one was, he flies his bat jet out with a bomb and
blows up. It's an idea, self-sacrifice, which really does connect with us. So I think that
the crucifixion narrative, accidentally or deliberately, was a terrific idea for them
to introduce and it built on all of these ideas of human sacrifice that have been in human culture
forever. Sorry, what was your question? Yeah, that was a good, that was a good response though.
I was just thinking of Armageddon, you know, Bruce, what's that? Bruce, I can't remember the actor,
Armageddon, he, yeah, Bruce Willis and he ends up, you know, going and self-sacrificing. That's
actually fascinating the way they approached it because my question ultimately came down to,
are there other better explanations than the cognitive dissonance route that is taken by
the historical approach that says, this guy came sometime under the reign of Pontius Pilate,
he ends up doing something, neither gospel can agree what he did to deserve it. He was an innocent
guy ultimately, oh, it's blasphemy, oh, he tried to cleanse the temple, oh, is this, you know, what
is it? So to me, this heart of, or the crux, if you will, pun intended, of Christianity, eating
and drinking of the God, okay, this right here, does it give us segue into the concept of why
the God needed to go and you mentioned the sacrifice of people and why that was pertinent
in society, I love that you brought up Judaism, its most primitive forms probably had been white
washed or at least painted over to protect its most primitive forms, but we see it with molek,
we see it with other gods that they try to paint other gods, oh, that God, that's a bad God,
not our God, but when you look at Jesus, are there better explanations and could a mystery
religion explanation, an agricultural explanation, make better sense about the death, burial and
resurrection of Jesus than the well underpunched pilot, crucified, dies, three days later they're
looking for him, oh, the tomb's open, where'd the guy go, oh, dude, he's missing, oh, well, Dr.
Ehrman and others, they can't let go of their lovely friend and I get this, I understand what
they're saying, I miss my friend and now I'm getting these like visual like things from him,
but does that make as much sense to make him what he became and it to be a successful religion or
did someone have to craft this utilizing mythological archetypes that they knew,
I just think there might be a better explanation, what do you think?
Yeah, it's a great question and obviously there's a ton of theories out there and whether or not
any of them hold more water than the others, I don't really know, but one of the interesting
things that Richard Carrier says in the film is when he draws the parallel between Jesus and
Barabbas and the trial and pilot and all that business and the sacrifice of the two goats
that we find in Leviticus. So for those people that don't know their Leviticus that well,
it was Jewish ceremony once a year where you would get two identical goats and one would be
taken to the temple and executed to get Yahweh to forgive the sins of the priesthood, the Sadducees
and another goat would be let free into the wilderness supposedly to forgive the sins of the
people. Now what we see in the Gospels is this story played out again, Yom Kippur story played out
again, but instead of two identical goats we have two identical Jesuses and this is something that
I found even the Christian scholars that I talked to a lot of them didn't know this story. Of course
Barabbas means son of the father, Barabbas and in the Gospel of Matthew when he's telling this story
he says that Barabbas' first name was Jesus, his name was Jesus Barabbas, Jesus son of the father.
So you look at this story and you go, okay, so we have two men, Jesus Christ, son of the father
and Jesus Barabbas, Jesus son of the father that are on trial. One is purely innocent, never hurt
anybody except for a herd of pigs and the odd olive tree. The other one is supposedly a terrorist.
Now of course there had been a number of revolutionary Jews in that period in the
first century that were trying to overthrow the Roman Empire and so you had two versions of a
savior there, the nice meek savior and the angry violent savior and of course one of them gets
executed and the other one gets set free. Two identical Jesuses, one is set free, one is executed.
When you look at it and again this first appears in Mark even though he doesn't mention it, that
Barabbas' name is Jesus but he tells this story and this is the same Mark where Jesus's first words
out of the gate was everything I'm going to tell you as a parable. When you read that and then you
look at Yom Kippur, the Yom Kippur tradition, I mean is it a coincidence or are they trying to
tell us here, well this is the new version of the story and this you know you're supposed to
understand if you were in the inner circle you knew what was going on here but for people on the
outside they just think the story is a story. Look particularly Jews hearing that at the time
would have probably made the connection but do they go well hold on I know that Yom Kippur but
you tell that story to a Gentile who's never read Leviticus and didn't grow up celebrating
Yom Kippur goes right over their heads right as it does for most Christians today when they hear
that story because they probably know Leviticus as one of the books of the Old Testament but
that's about it. They're not going to read it because it's a bunch of laws for Jews and they're
not Jews so why do they care? So look in terms of theories about you know where the Jesus story
came from I don't think anyone really knows you know and it's one of these things that once you
get into those rabbit holes they go on forever. Of course you know we all know that there are
astrological and agricultural similarities particularly with the astrological ones of the
death and rebirth of solemn victus around the winter solstice and all those sorts of things.
There's just so many bits and pieces that sound similar to other things you know where they all
thrown into a blender together and Christianity came out the other side honestly who knows.
Well said well said Cameron we could rabbit-troll into different theories about this all the time
I really appreciate that example and yes Dr. Carrier he does bring up a really fascinating
part about Yom Kippur there. It just it blows me away I remember while you were saying that I
remember the end of the passion of the Christ and I remember when Jesus finally dies and
a tear drop from God falls from heaven all the way down and I'm thinking to myself
you don't even know the story like like this is so crazy because really technically
this would be a sweet aroma sacrifice you know this this God loved the sacrifice okay
that according to the narrative every time it was a sweet aroma it was so this is like according
to the New Testament like a very good thing so I doubt he's gonna cry oh my son my son I'm so sad
no this seems more like appeasing angry God like you said yeah well if you if you believe
Christian theology Jesus's death was God's plan which of course makes it's Jesus's plan because
Jesus is God so that had to happen which is you know one of the strange things you look at Judas
and how Judas is thought of by most Christians as a as a bad guy because he betrayed Jesus but
if you accept the idea that Jesus had to die for the sins of humanity to be forgiven by Yahweh
then Judas was the hero of the story without Judas's betrayal Jesus might have just gone on
forever and no one paid him any attention and he might have escaped the Garden of Gethsemane and
gone and lived happily ever after in Athens or something we you know we he had to die so
I mean the very concept that that this is a great tragic thing that happened it doesn't make any
sense if if this was the greatest thing that ever happened and it was God's plan from the get go
I mean why God couldn't just snap his fingers and forgive everybody of their sins I've never
really been sure but it gets very hard to to understand obviously when you try and
piece it together and come up with a logical explanation for it and of course as we point
out I think in the film when you read Mark's version of Jesus alone in the Garden of Gethsemane
where he's begging Yahweh to take the cup from him my lord my lord why have you forsaken me
you know this doesn't seem like the the words of a god who knew that his actions were going to bring
about the the forgiveness of sins for the people that he loved this seems very much like a man
who knows that he's going to his death and is you know terrified and horrified he comes across as
very very human very vulnerable which of course is is deeply moving when you read that until you
realize well hold on I thought he was God and if he is God he knows that this is the plan and if he
is a God he's not really dying anyway so is it really a great sacrifice if you're not really dying
anyway if you came to me and said listen we're going to kill you but you'll be back in three days
I go okay well and well what's the upside well there's plenty of upside it's going to be great
you go okay well to hell with it then let's do it get it over with what's like it never struck me as
a big deal uh anyway I totally agree with you man I think that's interesting there's
the Gospels even have strange differences you mentioned him dying for all humanity
Matthew sounds like he's dying for only the Jews there's there's just various teachings
that we can get lost into with this which we might need to do follow a podcast on because
there are these different Christian sects like the the Calvinist that I was once and then the
Arminians or even the Universalist if you want to go that far there there's reasons oh he he died
for all in all mankind and go to the Gospel John the world and Matthew's clearly talking he came to
save his people from their sins oh what do you mean I thought all people from all sins no no no no
his people so really really fascinating differences of opinion and people like Christians who are
told this is one book not 27 you know technically that's kind of the gist I mean yes they know
there's 27 books but they're not really taught to think critically and say well Matthew might
have a different idea than John no they're not taught that and um I think this would be great
to do follow-up shows so as far as uh first question is you you can buy the film I think for 25 bucks
you can rent the film for 499 and you're going to be releasing more content on the like behind
the scenes content and the interviews that you had with these scholars do you know when you're
going to make that happen yeah as soon as I go around to it uh we're going to put out a podcast
which will start off with uh all of the uh extra stuff that I recorded that didn't make it into the
film and then I will continue that is the plan the podcast where I will invite scholars on to
continue the conversation you bring something that people would kill for 300 years ago you and me be
dead there's just no doubt in our minds we're on a stake and well maybe not 300 maybe 400 500 but
depending on where we're at in the world we'd be burned at the stake and some people probably
wish that on us so keep doing what you're doing and um for those of you who are watching
this podcast and you haven't seen the film please go down in the description check it out you can
see the trailer too if you're kind of wondering what's this movie really about even though we've
touched on a lot of different things that were in the film be sure to go down there check out this
video I'm telling you it is so entertaining I'm going to watch it again when I get off of here
just to touch up on it and I'll do follow-ups with him but I want you guys to share this video out
get it as far out there as possible because you there are so many various arguments that people
make to try and explain what Christianity is how to help people see through some of the doctrines
that we hold sacred that maybe keep people I guess you'd say stuck in a box and the approach that is
taken in here is very gentle but it explains a lot a lot in a way that can't be explained otherwise
so please do that I really do appreciate that and Cameron thank you so much for joining me my friend
so
join our patreon
what
we are
mission
