Dom as you don't mind me calling of course John Dominic crossing
I want everybody to know who you are your wonderful book render unto Caesar. We're gonna dive into this
Enigma we call the mark of the beast and it's really not an enigma
But so many people especially Christians are very superstitious of this number
666 and of course the mark of the beast and they have so many wild
reinterpretations their imagination can create I
Figure let's get to the bottom of this. What is really going on? Who is this man?
What is this number and how do we know?
What is this you cannot buy or sell with marks on their right hand or forehead?
What's going on with the globalization you're talking about the book of Revelation so?
Wherever you want to begin
twice in the book of Revelation the author kind of
Addresses directly to the readership and says you really have to be smart here
This requires wisdom now
You might think the whole book requires wisdom you want all of these images, but twice he really focused here
So now pay attention here, and in both cases they refer to Nero
Nero is
You might say the embodiment of the beast let me back up in the book of Daniel
There are beasts that come from the sea
the sea in in
Hebrew folklore is
Not a nice place then they never became sailors like the Phoenicians the sea was where
Where the there be monsters there has a work so how does the sea comes?
Beasts the Babylonian Empire the Median Empire they purge their beasts from the sea and
In the book of Revelation, they're all a conglomerate super beast which is without doubt Rome itself
That's pretty obvious that the beast is on seven hills, and that's Rome
Seven mountains
But then it specifies
Nero, why all this function on Nero people said well Nero of course persecuted Christians
We know that in the great fire of what was at 64
so
Maybe that's what we're talking about Nero, but then we keep describing Nero as the one who was and is and is coming back
What's that all about? Why is Nero?
It's not supposed to be Christ as the one who who is coming. Why is Nero coming?
So there's an enigma not about who the beast is
But why should it be Nero?
Why Nero as far as we can tell and most scholars would agree
This was written in the time of Domitian in the 90s of the first century Nero is gone for 30 years
Here's the reason
John's problem is this we're in the middle of the Pax Romana
Probably nobody is still alive who ever remembers the Roman legions battering down
the doors the gates of your city and coming in with
Rapents slaughter that's all past now. We're in the Pax Romana the seven cities that are mentioned are the
The ones on what we call Western Turkey today. They own in cities rich powerful cities. They've never seen anything like this
So here's the problem
He wants to tell you that Christ is coming back to destroy the Roman Empire soon
The thesis of the book of Revelation is
For this in Neon
the Roman Empire has slaughtered Christians in the immediate past and
Christ
With the power of God and the angels is coming back to slaughter Romans in the imminent future
Doesn't that sound fair he would say they slaughtered Christians
Christ will slaughter them. Can you real quick on the slaughtering Christians part you spend a moment in your book?
I asked this of Candida Moss recently or Canada Moss. Yeah
You know when she was talking about the Neuronian persecution we find in Tassus and Suetonius
She's highly skeptical that there was any such thing
And a lot of academics. I know they disagree with that. They said no, I really think there was something that happened here
They were Jewish Christians probably
They probably weren't running around after Gentiles probably Jewish Christians
But at the end of the day, I brought up Revelation and said well who the heck is being persecuted here?
It looks like
Revelation he's crying about something, but you even say we should take that with a grain of salt
Can you tell us briefly as that as we're getting into the bigger picture? Let me be very careful about the word I use slaughtered
This book is a wash in blood just get out of concordance look up the word blood
It floods the world. I
Didn't say kill Christians. I didn't even say persecuted Christians. I said slaughtered
In fact, you get the feeling from John that the only dead Christians
I'm using Christians in general that could be Jewish Christians are Gentiles, but probably Jewish Christians
But anyway, I use Christians just keep it simple
That heaven is filled with martyred Christians. It's hard to see. Are there any up there who ain't
Killed there's that scene where they're told to be patient until the full number is ready of your
Brothers who have to be slaughtered brother and sister so
Slaughtered
Whether there was a persecution
It's probably correct that Nero to exculpate himself because people suspected he may have caused the fire at Rome
he probably didn't by the way, but
to exculpate himself he blamed the Christians
I don't even know if you call that a persecution. It's like killing somebody
It's like a conspiracy almost
And of course tacitus, Suetonius other hours were
Discussive with this then you Christians are nothing to do with whoever they were
So I'm talking about a very specific thing. Why associate Nero
Nero with
Slaughter of Christians now the past the general consensus was this
John Apatmos writes his book under the mission in the 90s of the first century. I think that is absolutely correct by the way
he says
Romans have been slaughtering Christians
Therefore the consensus used to say
Domission must have a persecuted Christians otherwise. Why would John say so?
And that held pretty good until modern times
When now the consensus I think it swung the opposite and I guess right
It was written under the mission. That's not the point
But negatively there is no evidence that the mission
Who was assassinated by the aristocracy who didn't like him ever persecuted Christians now. We're talking about imperial
policy and program. We're not talking about nasty little
Street programs if if your neighborhood is having a festival for the god Dionysus and the jews or the christians won't come out to play
Why don't we burn down a few houses?
Nasty stuff of course
But that's that's nasty, but it's not imperial policy
So we don't have the evidence for it and in fact we have strong evidence against it
Because Ignatius of Antioch who's traveling westward in the early
Decades of the first century of the second century second century
Comes to some of these same churches. He never mentions you people have been persecuted, but you you
Stayed faithful. He's just worried about
internal
Dynamics of leadership whenever they obeying the bishop
There's nothing in here about these churches being persecuted
and in the same way when
Penny the younger
First runs in the christians and writes home the trajan about them. This is in the early part again of the second century
He's sort of asking trajan, you know, who did who did who these christians be?
What do I do with them?
This is one of the most educated politically in characters
It's like he's never run into them before
So it's just isn't true
The diet lesion are the flavorians in general
Of course, they burned down the jewish
Temple to the ground right but in terms of persecuting christians. No
They just didn't do it
So that leaves us now with a huge vacuum today in scholarship
Why then does john of patmos?
If I want to be blunt tell a lie
He must know
That romans have not been slaughtering christians
He must know that heaven is not filled with martyrs
So why on earth would he make rom so
brutally cruel
so
pornographically evil
The horror of baboon
And so imminently doomed
Which we know is wrong too by the way, right god didn't describe exactly whether god would or not to separate issue. Well god didn't
So that leaves me
What I had to answer in the book I had to answer why
Does he say that and then why does nero come in but why does he say it my answer again is this
He wants to make so
Rome so diabolically evil
So brutally cruel as I said so pornographically
Evil that nobody in the right mind would want to have anything to do with it
Don't even trade with it
If your neighbor is a pagan and he's a roman citizen
Don't even deal with him. Don't touch him. It's like touching tower
It's like touching evil
So he makes it as unbelievably bad
As you could imagine because he doesn't want you to
Even think of it and it's imminently doomed. So why would you have anything to do with it?
Get out of it. He says my people get out of it
Well, you can't quite do that you're living in it, but you can have nothing to do with it
That's that's the point of view of view of Rome now
That leaves them with a second question though
We're in the Pax Romana
He's trying to tell them and ask them to visualize the whole point of this book is to visualize it with stunning images that battle you
He an image of Rome being destroyed. No
This is the beginning of the second century
The roman century you might call it maybe
How can he give you a visualization?
Now, it would have been easy if we're dealing it, you know 200 years before in the middle of the roman civil wars
You could easily imagine tries coming instead of a roman general or alexander
When alexander went through the middle east and greased
The whole country and destroyed tire and destroyed gas and burned it to the ground. Oh, yeah, that would be a good model
So now
There's one way you can do it
There's this guy Nero now. He's dead 30 years
But the weird thing about Nero is we think of him. He's the villain. He's the one who
Who blamed christians for the fire of Rome to excavate himself?
That's in the west
That's in Rome. He committed suicide
To avoid having himself assassinated but in the east
In Greece, which he had liberated
Nero was a hero
He was the great Nero
and he believed
And the legend said he didn't really die
Because after all, you know, he committed suicide outside Rome. Where's he buried? Where's his grave? Where's his tomb?
He's not really dead. He's gone east beyond the afraid is and he's coming back
At the head of the party and to destroy Rome the jews clap and say marvellous
The fifth jewy sibling oracle
lovely
Nero ready vivas nero back to life to destroy Rome
And that's the model
I could never forgive for this
That's the model that jonah patmos
Uses for the returning the coming christ
He is coming to destroy the roman empire like you believe mistakenly
That nero is going to do
So the romans believed to be point blank in the sibling oracles or is the sibling oracles the jews who believed so
The sibling oracles are the jewish now a lot of them were taken over by christians
But basically the sibling oracles are jewish, but
We know from tacitus and i'm not certain of semitonius as well
But lots of roman authors said there were figures read people who let on they were nero
So it's not just there was a free floating legend
There's just so serious that people were impersonating nero. They were impersonating nero claim between nero ready vivas
Back to life again
Not even back to life really vivas isn't a good latin term
it's
Nero returning really because he never really died so
So it's kind of it's like elvis or tupac or something
Well the back of their mind is like jesus he kind of died and was buried, but he didn't really because he's coming right
He's okay, so nero is the great model of the avenging
Returner
And that that's why nero is so important
It gives the model that people
Who have no experience of somebody coming and battering down your gates and you know
Well nero might do it
So that's the model
That he uses that's why nero is so important and to understand nero
You have to read like the fifth
civilian article
Written about the same time as john of patmos
Where the jewish author there is rejoicing of course the nero is coming back not because he likes nero
But he certainly likes
The enemy of my enemy is my friend. Well nero born born rome is according to the rome. Well good for him
after all
if nero born rome
The jews who know what vespasian titus did to their city are not going to mourn for rome
And if he's coming back to destroy the rome empire good for him
Maybe an eastern roman empire would be better than the western one
so nero is
the returning hero model
for the returning jesus
And that's the mystery that requires intelligence according to john of patmos
And that gives him his model otherwise
What visual model does he have
In the pax romana, which has been going on since let's say in round numbers 30 bce
a hundred and
Maybe 40 years nobody alive has ever seen a roman city
Born to the ground the skates battered down
so
A returning nero that's the model for the returning jesus
and so the mark of the beast
And the idea of not being going to buy or sell are these imaginative
Does he literally mean there's a mark that will be on your hand or forehead?
Was there something that was going on or is that symbolism that is used in
In the hebra thought of like the law will be on my hand and my forehead like you're going against the torah
Yeah
To take that literally to take that literally the mark of the beast
I
Mean it has a literal meaning it means you see buying and selling it means are you
Trading with rome. It's are you entering into this Mediterranean globalization?
Now they're not going to stamp your thinking like you're going into a nightclub or something
Right, but the mark of the beast is that you're trading that's where it's buying and selling
You want to what's wrong with buying and selling?
Well, there's nothing wrong with buying and selling and but
Paul who would have said of course you can do that
But that gets you into
The roman system and I think for john it's not so much that
The buying and selling the trading with rome is that is the nose of the camel in the tent
It he would say no globalization is imperialism
It's not a different thing
Rome doesn't accumulate the Mediterranean just because it likes to collect land
And so we can get nice maps with red all around the sea because rome has a nice circle around the sea
Rome in roman imperialism. I would say any imperialism
In one sense, this is john's correct intuition
Imperialism is about globalization. It's about business
Now if it's about crude business like maybe the Assyrians are going to come and take your stuff. You got a problem with that
But for Rome, it's about business inside the Pax Romana business is booming
At least as far as an ancient business could boom. So why would not these rich cities
Want to be involved in it? Of course there are all the rich cities, you know close to the
To the Aegean sea
To the they're right there. They they can deal with this. They're going to the whole
Mediterranean globalization
So again to repeat John of Patmos is after
any business with rome
don't
touch it and
Again, it's doomed one other reason. First of all, as we've seen it's diabolical, which is one reason
It's an evil cruel
It's pornographic. I mean that terrible image of Rome as the
Put a bluntly the whorehouse of the Mediterranean
Of course, everyone's going to Rome. He says
It's the part of attraction
John is far more
Warning against the part of attraction than the part of aggression. Is it fair to say he's thinking let's be holy
separate
Yes, holy separate is exactly what he's talking about
Holy separate living in the Roman Empire but not of the Roman Empire
Think of aggression you think of the legions
That's all done. The whole Mediterranean is now pretty much Roman
If you're living in those great cities in what we call western Turkey today
You're deeply involved in the Roman Empire and happy with it
If you're an aristocrat or a business person in those cities, you love it
It's good for business. You don't have to worry about armies. You don't have to pay for to keep your own military
Rome takes care of all that stuff, but it Rome is on the frontiers
Inside the frontiers. Everything is peaceful business is booming now
Along comes John the Patmos
No wonder the exiled him
Because he was probably saying don't inventing to do with Roman business
It's an attraction. It's not an aggression
You you would know how to fight the legions if they came in a but it's an attraction
It seduces you. That's why he uses the pornographic imagery
It seduces you it entices you nobody forces you to go to a brothel
so by the
Calling Rome the great brothel of the Mediterranean
He assumed it attracts you
Beware of attraction
Aggression you'll recognize and you'll fight against
But the attraction will get you so
The logic of his of his images and he bothers you with these images
You don't have time to think seven bowls seven discs seven that's and they're all coming at me
It's like a strobe light whirling. I don't have time to think I can't think it's that's what he's doing to you
But at the end you're getting a message
Diabolical cruel
Pornographic doomed
I don't want anything to do with it
if it worked
And quite frankly all the evidence is it didn't
It didn't
Ladies and gentlemen join myth visions patreon not only to support us
But there are 72 videos that I did with dr. Dennis r mcdonald and richard carrier all on the patreon early access
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're helping myth vision grow
You
You
