We must see him. Go and play someone else's black gold!
We were led by a star. Led by a bottle of all-ite going out!
We were seen him. We have lost presence. Gold, frankincense, ma!
Well, why didn't you say he's over there?
Dr. Dell, C. Allison Jr., thank you once again for giving me this opportunity in your home.
Nice, big home.
Matthew. Matthew is an interesting gospel. I think I need to read more. I need to learn more.
Because I don't know if I quite understand what's going on in this book.
I talked to Dennis and Dr. McDonald, my buddy Dennis, and he's like,
No, it's very friendly to Gentiles, and I'm like, but it sounds very Jewish only.
And I say only. Notice I use the term there.
Because in Matthew 10, there's this clear spot, and I know some people who kind of lift this passage to use it for their own, you know, interpretations of things.
Do not go in the way of the Gentiles. Do not enter any city of the Samaritans.
Rather go only to the Law Sheep of the House of Israel.
And then in Matthew 15, I came only for the Law Sheep of the House of Israel.
This makes me kind of, I have a lot of questions now.
Like, it really raises some red flags. Like, did Jesus come to die for the nation of Israel only?
And then it gets kind of made into something bigger?
So I'm not sure where you're going here, and there are two questions to ask.
One would be about Jesus, and one would be about Matthew.
The one about Matthew is much easier in my judgment.
So as I said in an earlier spot here, there are pro-Gentile indications in Matthew.
Again, the text starts with a genealogy, and it has four women, and one of the things they have in common,
and I think the most important thing they have in common is that they are Gentiles.
They are outsiders. And Matthew is doing that for some interesting reason.
And then the first good guys, apart from Joseph, are the Magi, and they are clearly, I would say, not Jewish.
I think that if you want to make sense of Matthew, maybe you don't.
Maybe you just want to say that he was more of a collector than we think,
and he's collecting traditions that contradict each other. That's possible.
I've tried my whole academic career to make sense of Matthew as it stands,
so I'm very much in the late redactional mode, which is Matthew is an author,
and Matthew is trying to make sense of things.
But maybe the verses you cited from 10 and 15, maybe they don't exactly fit Matthew's theology,
and he's just preserving them. Oric looks in his commentary on...
Well, so Matthew looks in his commentary on Matthew, looks at 7-6,
don't give to dogs what is holy, don't throw pearls before swine.
He says, it has no meaning in its present context. I don't get it at all.
It's just stuck there. And he just says, it's just a fragment of something that Matthew knew,
and he put it there because Jesus said it, but Matthew didn't have any idea what it meant, right?
If you look through the Pentateuch, for example, there are some really artificial compilations.
It looks like somebody just said, I'm going to stick this paragraph in there, right?
I'm going to put these things together, whether they fit or harmonize or not.
Now, I don't think that's what Matthew is, but it's possible.
But it ends with this great climactic scene where Jesus says,
I mean, the point is, go to the nations, all the nations.
And how do you conclude with that and think this is a narrow-minded Jewish Christian text?
I just, I don't think so.
So the usual answer, the usual reduction critical answer,
is that Matthew thought of Jesus' ministry, his pre-Easter ministry,
as for the people of Israel, and it was only afterwards that it goes to the Gentiles.
Not too far from the Book of Acts, where you have Israel, then you have Samaria,
and then you have the Gentiles.
So he has a sort of historical perspective here.
He remembers Jesus was a Jew who ministered in Israel, had next to nothing to do with Gentiles,
and may even have a, Matthew may even harbor special ideas about the Jewish covenant
and how important it was and so on.
But at the end, Jesus is saying, OK, now we're done.
Now, there's been a debate, we're done with this exclusivism,
there's a debate been going on now for, I don't know, three decades or more about the ending of Matthew.
So when Matthew says, go into all the world, panzata etne, does he mean go to the Gentiles exclusively
the time for Israel is over, or does the panta include Israel, so it's just universal?
Of course Israel's still here, and we have the Gentiles.
I've been on the side of universalism, but of course I would like that to be the case.
I don't want Matthew to be turning his back on Judaism.
So you're saying that it's possible, though the other interpretation is possible?
Well, it's possible, yeah, of course.
I mean, sensible people, some that I know have made this argument that Matthew ultimately is anti-Jewish
because he sees the mission as exclusively for Gentiles, and it's like Israel has lost its chance.
Now, during the time when the camera was off, you were asking me a little bit about replacement theology.
That's very, very difficult.
I think you can find replacement theology in Matthew if you want to, it's not that difficult.
I wish it were more difficult, but it does look to me like chapter 16 where Jesus founds the church on Peter.
It does look like he is in response to rejection.
He is founding an alternative community.
Now you could argue that it's an alternative group within Israel if you want, but it does look to me like Jesus has come.
He said things, he's done things, he's sent out his disciples, and the response has been very mixed.
And in fact, it's been mostly negative because he starts talking about this generation.
So it looks like the Messiah has shown up, and there have been multiple responses, most of them negative.
And so that's when you get this language of the church.
And by the way, the only two places in the gospels where you get ecclesia, the church is in Matthew 16 and 18.
And so it does feel like something is happening here.
And if you want to think of replacement theology, you can.
I did my best when writing my commentary not to find it, right?
I argued at points that Jesus is making generalizations or Matthew's Jesus generalizations about the Jewish leaders at points, not all Jews and so on.
But it's a very difficult question in our time and place.
Supercessionism is a cuss word now, right? It is terrible to be a supercessionist and to be evil.
And so, yeah, so Matthew's hard to read here, or maybe it's just I'm reluctant to see what's there.
Yeah, I respect that, and I understand what that's like, especially when you have written so much on it.
It's like you really love that gospel.
And one of the things I noticed, even when I interviewed Matthew Teesson, he wrote a book, Paul and the Gentile Problem.
And he did it. He did an interview at, I think it was Harvard or something on dogs and being Gentiles.
And is this an ugly fossil, right?
Like here you have like, you know, definitely the Phoenician woman, dogs, right?
We know the analogy there.
And he also argues that in the Philippians, I wrestled against wild dogs.
And that, at Ephesus, he thinks are Gentiles and not just any Gentiles.
He's saying that they're probably Judaizing Gentiles that are Judaizers or something like that.
He argues, but long story short, it makes me wonder with some of these things.
I'll give you an example. As much as we date John late, I don't know why I keep and this is just me not purposely trying to do this.
I keep seeing stuff that sounds really early in John or it sounds like it would be like it's better that one man dies for the nation than all Israel to die.
And it makes me or all Israel to be defeated by the Romans and stuff.
And it sounds like the sacrifice of Jesus is limited.
And I don't mean it in a Calvinistic term.
I mean it like, like it's for the nation. It's for the people of Israel.
Oh, I see.
But I also see universal and I'm like,
Well, look, they're trying to, these texts are trying to reconcile two things.
Jesus is a Jew and all his disciples are Jewish and the leaders of the church are Jewish and this is an inter-Jewish movement.
And they believe that he is the Messiah and the Messiah comes for Israel.
That's what he does and he saves Israel from the nations and he restores their kingship and their kingdom and so on.
But that's not what's happened and what has happened, however it happened, accident or whatever,
this movement is doing really well with Gentiles, better with Gentiles than it is with Jews.
And so you immediately have problems. It's all very confusing.
It is confusing.
When the Messiah comes, the Messiah does not die and go away.
When the Messiah comes, he frees Israel, he redeems Israel, he re-establishes the kingdom and this Messiah doesn't do those things.
And instead we now have a bunch of Gentiles.
So of course it's going to be a confusing mess and they're going to try to theorize it and do their best with it.
Now I don't know about Philippians and dogs there, but you do have denigrating statements.
Going back to Matthew, don't do as the Gentiles do.
That reflects a Jewish standpoint where the Jewish religion is superior to all those pagan things.
Don't pray like they babble on and on and on.
You pray like this, Gentiles and toll collectors.
Matthew both, in my judgment, preserves the Jewishness of Jesus, but it also wants to hang on to it.
It doesn't just recognize it as a past tense.
I think it wants to keep it even as it opens up into the Gentiles.
And this does create things like textual tension.
How do you put the Great Commission, so-called, with Matthew 10 and Matthew 15?
Well, it comes out of a mess. It comes out of an unexpected mess.
I respect the mess and don't fight the mess, but do know that there's a mess there.
At least consider that there is.
And it's a movement, like you said, that's evolving.
I wanted to take us to Matthew 10 for a second to get your personal interpretation on that whole idea.
Like, don't go to the Gentiles, don't go in the way of any city, don't enter any city.
We see right in John, this is clearly to me, if you're looking for contradictions, you got one here.
Because here he says, and I'll give you an example as to why, and then you tell me what you think.
He says here, don't enter any city of the Samaritans, don't go in the way of the Gentiles.
And we know John's a weird, different kind of gospel.
But Luke also has him going to Samaritans and even giving parables of Samaritans.
Matthew's like, no, no, no, no, no.
John chapter 4, the woman at the well, he hasn't died yet.
There is no go to the nations now.
All of that's restricted for post-Easter and Matthew.
But here it's pre-Easter and he's doing these things.
When you agree that that...
I agree, but see, that's not the sort of thing I even think about.
So contradictions between Matthew and John, I just don't think about it.
I just think, here's what Matthew thinks, here's what John thinks, here's what's in Matthew, here's what's in John.
And if you want to worry about how they fit together, you could worry about it.
I'm just interested in the different profiles and in the history, you know, in the history behind the text.
You're still asking a sort of apologetical question when you do this sort of thing because of your past
or the people you hang out with, or I just don't hang out very much with such people.
Well, how do you interpret Matthew 10?
Like, one guy I talk to who's not in the vein of Christendom, if you will, he does think, though, he's arguing with me.
And this is his thing. I'm going to...
I am opening up a can of worms of ideas here for you because this would be foreign to probably what you're used to hearing.
There's an argument that the ethne, the Gentiles in the New Testament, according to some people I've bumped into,
I hate opening this up, but it's something I'd love to get your thoughts on.
They think they're apostate Jews or apostate Israelites.
And they see the prophecies of the lost tribes of Israel and the Hebrew Bible and the Septuagint
as something that must take place in the latter days.
And therefore they say, that's got to happen.
It kind of taps into Jason Staples. We haven't gone there yet.
I'd love to get your thoughts on that in maybe a different episode.
But I know this is a mouthful, but here's what he interprets.
He says Matthew 10, Jesus says in Matthew 4, to remain in Galilee.
And he argues that, no, it's not saying don't go to Samaria or don't go to...
How does he say it?
It's not the ethnic group. It has nothing to do with ethnicities.
And I'm like, I think it is ethnicities here that he's saying, don't go to Samaritans.
They're not Jews. Don't go to Gentiles. They're not Jews.
Rather go only to Jews, the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
He says he doesn't take that interpretation. Am I closer to what you've concluded?
I have no idea what you're talking about.
And this person you're talking about, what does this person do with Greek dictionaries?
Dictionary of the Septuagint. I just don't understand what you're saying.
So it would be like saying every time you see the word Paul in the New Testament, it really means Peter.
You're saying that Esne doesn't mean non-Jew?
Well, no, they'll say, and I maybe should just say they think they're the northern, apostatized northern Israel.
And remember, Israel and Judah, Israel is a different term than Jew.
So they'll try to say somehow...
Well, again, since I've not read the case, who am I to speak?
But if you could give me some text in which Ethne, apart from maybe some specialized...
I don't know, maybe there's some place in the Septuagint where this is the case, but I'm not familiar with it.
And it's certainly not the dominant usage. It's not the thing that comes to mind.
I've been reading Greek since the 1970s, and I don't ever recall having that thought.
Yeah, and I'm sorry. Ethne means...
I knew I didn't want to open up the Canterworms, but there was two different questions in this.
And it wasn't just, does Ethne potentially work to that agenda?
But the question really was that passage in Matthew 10.
I have always understood this.
I read Adiophir, Ishae, Rosenzwee, Goi, and understanding Israel's others.
They say in there, in Second Temple Judaism, Ethne or Gentiles, if we can use the term, almost always refers to others than Israel.
And if that's the case, I think that's an ethnicity line, a barrier.
And the early rabbis said this.
I mean, Rabbi Akiva was talking about a prayer that they would wake up,
thank you God, I was not born a woman, and I think I was not born a Gentile.
Well, that's an ethnicity barrier.
Yeah, you have to be careful because maybe, yeah, ethnicity is a big subject today, as you know.
And it may be that ancient Jews thought about ethnicity in ways that we don't.
But I get your main point here.
I mean, if you joined into the covenant, you'd become a Jew.
So technically, I don't necessarily mean, but that's debated too, by the way.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, how does that work?
But I just don't, I don't see what this individual is saying about Matthew,
if I understand it correctly and there's no more to it, it sounds wildly implausible to me.
Yeah, I guess the argument is, if I'm right in saying that it's somehow a distinction of a social distinction,
I'm saying Gentiles and Samaritans are not Israel, because he says only the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
well, the house of Israel cannot be Gentiles or Samaritans.
That's how I've understood this.
And if that's the case, it works against his thesis on arguing that Gentiles somehow are the lost house of Israel.
Yeah, that's just really strange to me.
I don't know what to make of that in a first century context.
The lost tribes of Israel aren't Gentiles in the first century.
They are Jews who live beyond the Great River or somewhere, as Josephus says, or they're the tribes that didn't return.
They exist somewhere, but they're not Gentiles.
They may live among the Gentiles, but they are not Gentiles.
Now, there is some question about Samaritans and how to classify them,
but the literature on that is very complex and the texts are complex.
And the Samaritans are treated sometimes as though they are Gentiles, right?
In one of the books I mentioned earlier, Fourth Baruch, there's a whole chapter about where the Samaritans come from,
and they are disobedient Jews who go up north and build their own temple and so on.
And they are descended from Jews in this text, but they're apostate, so they don't count anymore.
They forsake in the God of Israel.
One more passage in Matthew.
Well, in the Matthew discussion, Jesus says,
You will not have gone through all the houses in Israel before the Son of Man comes.
That to me was like, you know, for the whole apocalypse thing that I was getting into and saying,
All right, there's going to be a revealing that this is the end.
And he's saying you will not have even made it through all the houses.
Sounds like a fossil to me or an early potential.
Okay, so I don't know how much Albert Schweitzer you have read, but this is a key text for Albert Schweitzer.
So he knows that Matthew isn't straightforward history, but there are parts of Matthew that he reads as history,
and he reads Matthew 10 as history.
And part of the reason is he can't imagine an early Christian making something like this up,
because Jesus sent the disciples out, they obviously return, and the Son of Man hasn't come.
So he viewed it as a historical text or in your terms a real fossil, right?
And so it's key to his reconstruction of Jesus.
Jesus actually had this expectation of an imminent kingdom and he sent out the disciples and it didn't come.
So then he has to sort of rethink things and he's now got a second strategy.
So there he can work two stages of the ministry out of this one verse.
Now the truth is that there has been a ton of literature written on 1023.
And at the end of the day, it looks to me like a fossil.
I actually, not many people think this, but I actually think it may well have stood in the Q missionary discourse.
Well, it's obvious to me why Luke would subtract this if it were there.
Just as maybe Matthew 10, 5, and 6 about don't go to the Gentiles, you know, that might have been in Q and Luke's not going to do that.
He's just not going to do that.
Actually, if you look at Matthew 5 and Luke 6 where Jesus and Matthew says, you know, don't be like the Gentiles, right?
Luke has sinners. He doesn't go that way.
Anyway, I have trouble thinking that 1023 is a pure post-Easter creation.
And I still wonder about Schweitzer's thesis at this point.
I don't have, apart from Schweitzer's possibility, I don't have anything that's really attracted my mind.
And I thought, yeah, that's the best explanation for this.
I can't imagine its methane redaction. It really is difficult. It's really hard.
It may be something a bit like 7, 6, according to Lutz.
It's a saying that was attributed to Jesus, and Matthew's kind of like a rabbi, so he preserves the things in the tradition, even if he's not sure what to do with them, or even if they're embarrassing.
But it's also possible to think this.
It's possible that if you read the ending, patata ethne, to mean not go to the Gentiles, but go to everywhere, and that includes the Jews.
That 1023 could have been understood by Matthew, or early readers of Matthew, to mean that the Jewish mission is still ongoing.
That is, it will go on until the Son of Man returns.
You see what I'm saying here? You can sort of read this past the immediate context of the ministry of Jesus, and you could read it as saying Jesus is telling missionaries that he's sending them out to the house of Israel,
and they won't finish before the Son of Man comes back.
And maybe Matthew can rationalize that in the 85 and think, well, the mission is still ongoing with the Jews, and we haven't reached everybody.
There's still a mission, right?
There's still a mission. So that's one possible way of harmonizing. I'm not harmonizing. John and Matthew here. I'm trying to harmonize with Matthew within the book.
And I don't know that that's how Matthew dealt with this. It's possible. Most modern commentators don't like to think this anymore.
But it's possible to my mind that Matthew found this in his source, let's say Q10.
And, oh, I wonder what that means. I don't like that one, but he said it. So, you know, here it is, maybe, right?
Well, you know, the fact that you change lots of things and have your agenda all over a text doesn't mean that you can't preserve things that you can't quite understand, right?
Yeah.
So, maybe.
Yeah. And sometimes it's the, that's the fascinating part about what you do in scholarship is just, there's sometimes things that you go, what the, and you go, well, that's pretty good evidence that that was probably original or something.
Embarrassing things, or like a lot of times scholars will look at stuff and go, they're fixing that problem. That shows later stuff versus something that will be.
Yeah. And when they're fixing a problem, then, yeah, then it, then it's early or maybe even it goes back to Jesus.
So, if you look at the saying about divorce, it's really interesting because in Luke, what is it, 16, it's just, you know, don't divorce, right?
It's just an absolute, but in Mark, it's not only the man divorcing the wife that's prohibited, but the wife divorcing the man.
Some people say, well, that's because in Mark's world, in his Roman world, it wasn't so uncommon for women to divorce men, whereas in the Jewish world, it was much less common.
And so you could just leave it as men, right?
But Matthew then says, it's got to be adultery.
We got to have an exception clause here, right?
And then when you get to Paul, Paul's really interested in 1 Corinthians 7, he says, you know, I have a word of the Lord, you know, that, you know, a woman shouldn't separate from her husband.
And then it's followed by, but if she does, like what?
He said, don't do this, but if you do it, and then, so it's like at every turn, it's getting reworked.
And so you think there's probably a memory here.
I guess it goes back to Jesus, right?
Prohibiting divorce, but then it's got to be modified and reinterpreted.
And if, you know, church history is just full of what do we make of this canon law, tries to figure out, you know, are there exceptions for non-consumption?
And, you know, it's all there, right?
Right.
But I think that's going on from the beginning with that one.
Thank you.
By what name are you calling him?
Brian!
We worship you, O Brian, while Lord over us all.
Praise unto you, Brian, and to the Lord our Father.
Amen.
Amen.
