I think more likely it's something like what I call
agenticity, the tendency to infuse patterns with intentional agency,
and it calls this, you know, hyperactive agency. And that is what most, you know,
the modern monotheists believe. They think everything happens for a reason.
Even, even say Buddhists who believe in some kind of fatalism, specifically on October 23rd,
4004 BC at noon, out of the quantum foam fluctuation, God created the Big Bang.
Rather than saying, well, you know, I'm getting it from this holy book. Well,
but there's more than one holy book. So which is, which is the right one?
And our special guest is Dr. Michael Shermer, author of Giving the Devil His Do,
and from skeptic.com. Also, MichaelShermer.com as well. And we're going to be talking about
some things relating to skepticism and why we believe what we believe.
Absolutely. Here is the website. MichaelShermer.com. Go support him,
and the angels will give you links if you do so. And also we have skeptic.com. If you guys want to,
you know, move up a few tiers in the abyss, if you will, just helping out another skeptic and
checking out the podcast will obviously give you secret passwords to move up out of the ranks of
hell to get through those little gates that they have keeping you from getting out. They say you
can't get out, but we know that's absolutely BS. So be sure to go check him out and support what he
does. Anyway, oh, should we be popping everybody on screen? Here we go. There we go. All right. So
we got a couple of clips that we want to show Dr. Shermer and get his thoughts on.
And I thought we should start with the apes, the apes mourning over the death of another ape,
or what it looks like. It might not be that, but it sort of looks like it. So Derek, go ahead and
pull that up. A research team working in Zambia has released never before seen video of a community
of chimpanzees reacting to death in their group. A nine year old chimpanzee male has died in recent
days. Photos and videos have emerged showing great apes, notably gorillas and chimpanzees,
reacting to the deaths of members of their communities. Humans might interpret the reactions
as mourning, but is it? The researchers would rather not presume that the chimps are mourning
the death of another. I am reluctant to use that word. My colleagues might have different
opinions, but I think for the most part, we're reluctant to use the word because it doesn't
seem to really give us any extra explanatory information. So Dr. Shermer, first of all,
sorry, I didn't get you to give you time to speak. Welcome on the show, and thanks for coming out.
I'm happy to be here. Yes, that was a great clip. Actually, I wrote a book about this,
you know, Heavens on Earth, and I have a whole section on animal mourning. I do think it's okay.
Like, here's a picture of these elephants who are poking around. Let me see if I can get that in
the screen there for you. Poking around in the field there of these skulls. This was actually an
experiment in which they put out different objects. I think it was a chunk of wood and a skull and
some bones in the skull. They poked around more in the skull, I think, because they recognized it as
one of their own. You know, there are examples of this, of cetaceans like whales and dolphins that
seem to help their fellow group mates in trouble. And, you know, there's that whole book, When
Elephants Weep. And, you know, it makes sense that mammals who are pair bonded and attached
to one another in a social group would, of course, feel some sense of loss. There's nothing else
perceptually, you know, somebody that's always around and then is not around anymore.
You know, what happened? And, you know, it's got to feel weird, like some kind of loss like that.
And so I think that's not unreasonable to assume that if we see the signs in them
that resemble those of humans, of an emotion, you know, we apply the Copernican principle to
ourselves, we're not special. As Copernicus himself showed that we're not the center of the
universe. And Darwin showed we're not the center of life on earth, we're just another species.
Why would it be that our cognitive and emotional capacities are somehow
qualitatively different from all other mammals? We're a mammal. So, and just in a broader sense,
I apply it to solve the problem of other minds, this philosophical problem of what, how do I know
that you two are sentient conscious beings, and you're not just zombies walking around, giving
off cues that you're conscious and sentient. And the lights are on when, in fact, you're just a
zombie. And I'm the only one in the conversation is actually sentient. Well, I think that would be
pretty anthropocentric. And again, applying the Copernican principle to myself, I'm not special.
So it looks like you guys are sentient and conscious and awake and the lights are on.
And so it's reasonable to assume that. And then I would just extrapolate that
circle out to include other mammals at the very least primates are sure. But I would think
any kind of higher order mammals would express the kind of emotion. So why not grief? It makes
perfect sense for that. Okay, so that's that's fascinating. But you mentioned, especially
primates, which brings me to the next thing I wanted to talk about is, like, people tried to
differentiate us from animals that we believe in God to have this like, this inner
feeling of some divine realm that but but I would make the case that there might be that in some
animals, maybe maybe primates. I was talking to Dr. Price about this. And he was saying that
there's studies in Africa of, I can't remember exactly which ape it is, but there, there were
after a lightning strike, they would look up at the sky and do this. And yes, that's not the same
photo that I'm looking for. But that looks similar to it. Yeah. But that might be a bit of a reach.
That might be a bit of a reach. I think what what what you're suggesting there are prices
suggesting, I guess, is that, you know, gestures up to the sky suggests that maybe we have this,
you know, kind of a God sense or instinct that there's something up there. I think more likely
it's something like what I call agenticity, the tendency to infuse patterns with intentional
agency, then 10, and it calls this, you know, hyperactive agency, hyperagency detection that
we see agency everywhere. And it's a more basic process than that. I mean, patternicity is what
I call, you know, the tendency to find meaningful patterns and random noise and agent agency,
the tendency to fuse those patterns with intentional agents. So if you think about what's
the difference between a, you hear a rustle in the grass, is it a dangerous predator or just the
wind? So first we make type one, we're more likely to make type one errors, that is, assume
that the rustles in the grass are dangerous predators, and not the wind. Even if that's a
even if that's an error, it's a false positive, you thought the rustle in the grass was a dangerous
predator, turns out it's just the wind, that's a low cost error to make. If you make the other kind
of error type two error, where you miss the real threat, then that can take you out of the gene pool,
your lunch, you get a Darwin Award for for missing out on that. And, and, and then the next step in
that in the next move there is, what's the difference between the wind, the dangerous predator? Well,
the wind is an inanimate force, the dangerous predator is an intentional agent. And its intention
is to eat me and destroy me. So better I assume that everything out there has agency to it.
So from there, you know, you get animism and spirit, spiritism, and you know, the idea that the rocks
and trees and, and the weather and everything has some kind of agency behind it. And, and from there,
you get, you know, polytheism and then eventually monotheism, and the idea that everything happens
for a reason. And that is what most, you know, the modern monotheists believe they think everything
happens for a reason, even, even say Buddhists who believe in some kind of fatalism, you know,
everything happens for a reason, as if there's some mystical force pushing things around in the
cosmos to adjust for some cosmic justice that, that, you know, is all worked out in the end.
Of course, none of this is true, but, but it's, you know, it's the cognitive psychology behind it
of why we would think like that. And so it's not that we have a God gene or a God module in the
brain. It's a larger concept of which culture then builds on it. I mean, monotheism is relatively
new. It's only a few thousand years old, maybe three to four thousand years old, say, and, and,
and it was pretty uncommon until, you know, just the last maybe 1000 or 2000 years. So, but, but
much older and broader is, you know, this is the idea that there's intentional agents of which
gods are one demons and angels and aliens and conspiracies and, you know, social coalitions,
coalitional groups that could be dangerous to us are another form of agency detection that
we're more likely to make type one than type two errors. And that's one explanation to explain why
people believe conspiracy theories, because enough of them are true, that it pays to be a little
paranoid, you know, that maybe they are out to get me, because sometimes they really are out to get
me. There's kind of a logic behind it. Dr. Schermer, in the cloud thing that he's talking about,
and we're going to play a clip for you here in a second, actually, to kind of give you this really
interesting patternicity thing that we're always seeking things that we relate to. This is why
the gods look like objects on earth. If it's India, you're going to see some animal mixed or
Egyptian. You're going to see animals mixed with humans and things like this. You even see it in
the Bible. But the interesting thing is, is there was Dr. Robert Price actually was mentioning that
he knew an anthropologist who was in the jungles, I think, in Africa. And I think it was a chimpanzee,
but either way, lightning surrounded the sky. You ended up seeing this lightning bolt strike.
And when the lightning bolt struck down at the earth, nearby, you know, terrifying everyone,
including the humans there, the monkey looked up at the sky went, because it assumed that that
thing was out to get me. And it is assuming agency in this, in this cloud. And I just thought it
hard. Yeah, hard to know what it's thinking there. It's right. It's a behavior, we're observing a
behavior. Maybe it's start, maybe it's part of a startle response or a fear response. I'd have
to see the video. I'm not familiar with that particular one. If you can find it, that might
be helpful. But it's easy to see how we would look at it and go, that's, you know, that's the
kind of thing I would do if, you know, if I was angry at the gods above or something like that.
Hard to say if that's what they were really thinking. This is a problem, by the way, in
an ethology and the study of animal behavior is imposing, you know, I made the case for why it's
okay to anthropomorphize somewhat. But on the flip side, you know, there's, there's research with
language use in primates, particularly chimps and gorillas, in which they, they're taught sign
language. So there's a subjective element of interpreting, if the primate actually made a
sign, you know, one of the sign language sign, and strung them together in a certain sequence that
looks or sounds like what would be a sentence we might make, and therefore infer that, you know,
they have language like we do, they just don't have vocal cords. But that, that research has been
challenged by scientists, they think there's, there's too much, there's overinterpretation
of what the signs actually are or what the, what the animal is actually doing, that it may not
be stringing together signs into a coherent grammatical sentence at all. There may be a certain
element of randomness to it, or just a simpler, you know, Scinarian model in which you're,
they're reinforced for making certain gestures that get a reward. And therefore, it's not language
at all, it's just behavior responding to reinforcement, like a pigeon would or a rat would,
who we would not impugn with language. So you think that the, the looking for patterns
everywhere is sort of a result of evolution, and it's sort of a way to, it's sort of helpful in a
way, like you said, it's survival tactics being passed down. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, right, right.
So in other words, what I'm trying to answer, the problem I'm trying to explain with this model is
why people believe weird things, you know, the title of my first book, and the harder problem,
why smart people believe weird things. And the answer is short, in short, well, the common answer
you get is whether, you know, people are just dumb or ignorant, uneducated, superstitious, whatever,
gullible, that doesn't really explain anything. In fact, I think it's more of a feature than a bug,
it's not a problem. In our cognition, this is the way that's the default mode is to assume
more things are real than not, just in case, particularly if they, you know, pose a threat,
could pose a threat. Therefore, you know, you just, you kind of fall into that, that patternicity
process. And there's kind of a logic to it, rather than it being a problem that, you know,
that that's something wrong with our cognition, there's nothing wrong with our cognition,
that's, that's normal. So it takes science and critical thinking and rationality to kind of
overcome that propensity to do that. Of course, that's what we've been doing for centuries,
philosophy and science, developing tools to get around our confirmation bias and hindsight bias
and my side bias. And, you know, so forth, that that's, you know, that those are normal.
What we do today in the modern world, you know, employing reason and rationality in the tools
of science is unusual. So we're talking about patternicity. And I actually made a clip. I
actually put together some videos that are supposedly real clouds. They look convincing. I
mean, let's, let's be honest, who knows, there could be some video editing going on, but these
other ones that people say are real. I put them together and I added some dramatic music to make
it more real. And just to show what you're talking about. So go ahead and play that clip, Derek.
What do you think? Are you convinced they're real now?
I've seen some of those. I think a couple of those are photoshopped.
But I have a whole slideshow of hundreds of those kinds of things, that classic patternicity,
of course. There's even a tweet, a Twitter account, Faces and Things. I think it's called Faces and
Things and they post them every day. You know, there's just millions of them, literally. Of
course, we're only, so if you just do our two by two matrix with four cells, you know, the upper
left cell here is, you know, things that look like stuff that we recognize. Of course, we're
leaving out the other three cells, which are the gazillion things that random patterns in the
environment that don't look like anything, or actual objects that we make or human or whatever,
in which there are no clouds that look like those. And then, of course, the fourth cell is just
nothing. And so we have to be careful about this kind of a signal detection problem. To what extent
does a apparently random pattern actually represent a real phenomenon? Or is it just,
you know, selective perception? And once you conceive of it in that two by two matrix with
four cells, it's obvious that, you know, we're just picking out the ones that we happen to recognize,
you know, bats or birds or whatever. Look, my dog, looking around. He's not going to see the same
thing we see. You know, so we recognize faces, particularly the reason that Twitter accounts
called Faces and Things is because instead of hands and things or legs and things or torsos and
things, we evolve the capacity to detect faces. There's even an area in the temporal lobe called
the fusiform gyrus that's allocated mainly for facial recognition. And we know that people with
damage to this fusiform gyrus in the temporal lobe have difficulty seeing faces. Some people
are just face blind. They cannot see a face. Even their own face, they'll sit there in front of
the mirror and Oliver Sacks writes about this, you know, they're looking themselves in the
mirror. They don't see a face. They see like, oh, it's an apple with some slits, whatever.
They literally don't see a face. So, you know, we know this is programmed. You know, we have a
capacity to see faces and things because faces are important to humans for social interactions.
And we read emotions in people's faces. We look for tells and cues and micro expressions to see
if somebody's lying or how honest they are. And of course, we attach and bond to the faces of our
parents when we're born. It's kind of an imprinting there. So, faces are, you don't need much, just
two dots and a little slit like that. And people go, oh, it's a face. Again, I have hundreds of
examples in my slideshow. And so it's quite common. So, we're programmed to see those. So,
naturally, you know, you can run clips like that all day. And we do see them. Some of them are
fascinating, you know. But of course, that, you know, it's a human imposition on a random pattern.
Now, I do distinguish with patternicity. I actually technically define it as
tendency to find meaningful patterns in both meaningless and meaningful noise. Because sometimes
patterns are real. And so that we want to know. And that's what science is all about. You know,
the relationship between the increase in CO2 gases and global warming, you know, that's a pattern.
Is it real or is it not? Could be random. You know, it could be meaningful. Looks like it's real.
Despite what the skeptics say. But for a while, people are going, oh, I don't know if this
global warming thing is real. Well, what they're saying is that, you know, the pattern you think
you see is not a real pattern, right? When I mentioned signal detection theory. So, I have
a whole lecture on this in my course, in which, you know, I start off with that Russian Soviet
officer Petrov, who detected the signal of incoming missiles from the United States into
the Soviet Union. And he had to make a split decision. He had like one minute to make a
decision. Do I report this as real missiles and therefore launch a retaliatory strike
against the United States? Or is it just a flock of birds or, you know, some other random
signal in the noise that's not a true signal? So, he ultimately decided, well, there's only
five blips on the screen. Seems unlikely that the United States was going to launch a first
strike against the Soviet Union to dismantle their entire nuclear arsenal. It wouldn't be with five
little blips, five missiles. Got to be an anomaly of some kind. Turns out it wasn't birds. It was
this other cloud formation and something to do with the satellites or something like that.
So, that's a signal detection. You know, the blurry blotch on an X-ray or a CT scan,
is that brain cancer? Do I, you know, is it breast cancer? What is that? Or is it just
random blotches? You know, oncologists have a signal detection problem. And the ultimate
problem is that, you know, we're not omniscient. We don't know 100 percent what's actually real.
So, all decisions we make are made under uncertainty. And so, we have to act like
Bayesian calculators. Well, what are the odds that that blip represents a missile or a blob?
It turns out to be cancer or it's a real face in the cloud or whatever it is.
The God's talking to us or whatever you want to interpret that as. So, it's all signal
detection. You know, who should I marry? You know, I have all these people on dating, which is the
right one. You know, that's a signal detection problem. You don't want to make, again, in my two
by two cell, you know, here's, you know, the, you know, the signals that turn out to be real
missiles and you don't want to miss that. But on the other hand, you don't want false alarms where
you go, okay, it's a blip on the screen. I'm going to say it's an incoming nuclear missile.
Turns out I was wrong and it's a false positive. But that has a huge cause because if you launch
a retaliatory strike, you have World War III and that's the end of everything. So,
you don't want to make those kind of mistakes or just think about stopping frisk. You know,
in New York City, they implemented stop and frisk in the 90s because they wanted to capture
more criminals. Okay. Well, we don't know who the real criminals are. It's a signal detection
problem, acting, deciding under uncertainty. So we're going to set the bar pretty low and scoop
up as many people as we can and hopefully we'll get mostly criminals. But the problem with that
is you're going to get way more false alarms. You're going to, you're going to nab innocent people
or terrorists, just think of screening for terrorists, you're going to get far more innocent
people based on loosening up other criteria or in criminal justice. You know, you want a pretty
high bar for conviction of a crime because the cost of convicting an innocent person
is considered to be so great that, you know, we apply what's called Blackstone's criteria that,
that the great jurors Blackstone said, better 10 people, 10 guilty people go free than that
one innocent person he found guilty. And that's kind of the standard we've set there. So that's
how to think about this issue from a signal detection problem. So you're telling me that
there's no Mother Mary in cheese sandwiches. That's right. Yes, yes, yes. The grilled cheese
sandwich is another slide in my slide. I got to actually hold that grilled cheese sandwich that
sold for $35,000 on eBay to Las Vegas Casino. I'm not sure they still have it there, but yeah,
someone actually took a bite out of the sandwich. And since I've written about that,
people have sent me like a make your own Virgin Mary and toast toaster.
Your own bread to make your own Virgin Mary grilled cheese sandwich is pretty funny.
So yeah, and there's lots of it. If I may, I thought this was an interesting thing. I figure
it'd be awesome to phrase this question to someone who denies evolution. Because sometimes you got
to trick them into seeing what they're already going to assume is true. And so I'm going to show
you an image here. But in this image, I figure giving a lie type question up front to load them
with this prepping them for it. And they fall into the trap of thinking, yeah, the lie of what
I'm building up is true. And then after that, open up the reality to them. And that is down the
street, I met a man named Bob. Now I'm making this up as we go, but I met a man named Bob.
Bob's got a real skin condition. And doctors have been doing some graphs on his body and they've
found out that maybe something genetically was a little off on why the pigmentation has appeared
this way. And so Bob's been trying to get it to where all of his skin is actually one color.
What do you guys think about Bob? I mean, like, look at his hand. And the bottom line is this is
an actual ape. This is not a human. This is an ape. Look closely at the fingernails. Look closely
at the knuckles. Look at your hand. You tell me that that isn't something we have in common.
That's so human like. So if you tell them that this is a human, Bob, who has a skin issue,
something's up with the skin and it's discolored, and then open up to, by the way, this is actually
not a homo sapien. This is an ape. What is the fundamentalist going to say to that? I knew all
along or you liar. You lied to me. It's, you know, I think it's fascinating. Your book,
The Believing Brain, is really all over this stuff. But I just figured I'd show you that image. Did
you want to comment on that? But by the way, this is my only book with full frontal nudity on the
cover. I was able to get it because most people are not offended by seeing a naked ape. In fact,
Desmond Morris famously called us the naked ape. We just don't have the hair, right? But, you know,
the similarities are quite striking. On the other hand, I mean, we shared 98. Something of our
genes with chimps and so on. And you can't help but miss the similarities. But on the other hand,
you don't confuse them short of the kind of cropped picture you just showed there. Right.
With other humans. I mean, no one like meets a chimp and goes, Oh my God, I can't believe you're
a chimp. I thought you were a human. You just, you don't miss it. You don't confuse them at all.
And so they're different enough that, you know, cognitively, they are definitely in a different
conceptual category. So I've heard you once say that you used to be an evangelical going door
to door preaching the word, trying to get people saved. And how do you go like, can you take us
through that story a little bit? How you got from from there to being the face of skepticism,
basically? Yes, well, that was, that was a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.
When I was in my 20s, yes, early 20s in college, high school and college, basically, you know,
jumped on the evangelical train mainly because my friends were doing it. So it was more of a
peer group influence effect. So my parents were not religious. Oh, you guys. Yeah. Yeah. That's
actually pretty common. You know, the number one predictor, somebody's religious beliefs are that
of their parents. After that, it's that of their peer groups. And then third, the kind of culture
at large. So yeah, in my case, it was my peers and, and, you know, my buddies were doing it. And
all right. So I took it seriously. You know, I went to Pepperdine, which is Church of Christ
School. I took courses in the Old Testament, the New Testament, the life of Jesus and the
writings of C.S. Lewis. We took a course. We read every single thing C.S. Lewis wrote. It was
quite, quite the stimulating class. Then when I went off to graduate school and experimental
psych, you know, just for fun, I took some courses. First of all, I took a course in evolutionary
biology and I thought, oh my God, this stuff is real. I thought this was all bullshit.
And you know, because that's what I thought creationists believed even though they didn't
teach creationism at Pepperdine. But I thought that's what I was supposed to be a creationist
because I'd heard that. And so that was an eye opener. Oh my God, evolution. It actually happened.
So and then, but more importantly, I took courses in anthropology and I kind of went
through my Joseph Campbell mythology stage, you know, watching all those documentaries and reading
his books and all that later. And then I thought, hmm, yeah, you know, everybody thinks that their
religion is the one true religion. And you know, they can't see the, detect the water they're swimming
in literally their culture is just everywhere. And that's all they know. But if you study it,
you know, from a scientific perspective, you see, well, okay, they're all, they all have the same
commitment, similar commitments to their beliefs, but they can't all be right. So some of them are
wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. And then also the problem of evil, both personally, because I had a girlfriend
at the time that was in a bad car accident, and she was paralyzed for life still is. And I thought,
you know, that's just wrong. I mean, that just can't be. I mean, she's a good person. How could
God let this happen? And it's not like, you know, human evil, I'm talking about natural evil, just
things that happen, tsunamis or earthquakes that kill people, what not, or accidents like that,
not talking about homicide or genocide, to which Christians will say, well, that's free will,
you know, humans are fallen, they're sinful, that's why they commit sin. I'm not talking about that.
I'm talking about natural evil, accidents that like that, that has this just not right. Why,
why does God allow that to happen? And the answers are pretty lame. I find them wholly
unsatisfying. Oh, it builds moral character. Oh, yeah, thanks a lot. Maybe I could have done that
through sports rather than being paralyzed for life, you know, or, you know, women that get raped or
victims of genocide and torture, you know, like surely there's better ways to build character
than that. You know, it's a bit of a reach, you know, so for me, I just end up giving up mine,
really just beliefs. And it was wasn't a big deal because so here's another, you know, angle on
this. I was young. I didn't have a social circle that was deeply religious who would be disappointed
in me. My family wasn't religious, so they didn't care if I gave it up. So there was nothing to lose.
And, you know, who I feel sorry for the people that are older, say middle age, their spouse,
their children, all their friends and family co workers, they all go to church, maybe even the
same church. And so for them to leave, there's a high cost. And, you know, it's, that's troublesome,
you know, because then you're less likely to do it. It's harder to kind of build up the
intellectual courage to do it. And, you know, I'm sympathetic to them.
If I may, here, this is an interesting point you brought up. In your deconversion process,
you figured out science, you started learning a thing or two about science, the natural world.
But also you talked about mythology and Joseph Campbell's name got brought up.
Me and Neil both went from fundamentalist Christians to, well, we can't let go of the
God thing. So we kind of made the woo woo abstract esoteric approach, where we recognized mythology,
that there were stories, we didn't buy them as literally true anymore, but they applied some
spiritual significance to us somehow, right? So we were still trying to keep one in one foot in the
door and say, that's the position, God's bigger, right? So we went from that to kind of a mythology,
Joseph Campbell, for him, it was Gnosticism or a form of Gnostic. And then we both started to go,
hold on, I think natural explanations actually might make sense for why belief at all,
why do we have gods? Why do we imagine these things? Agenicity, patternicity, assuming these things
in the natural world. So we've come there, we're with you, we're with you on this. Now the question
then becomes a little more complex, because I've seen you interview Bernardo Castro. And Bernardo
Castro is like a brilliant, brilliant mind, but he's also a philosophical form of idealist. And
I can't keep up with half the things this guy says. I mean, it's super complex, but
it's kind of a strange philosophy where nothing is really there, except through our perception of
these, these, our eyes of what we're imagining is there. And it's very complicated, his philosophy
is very complicated. He's also going to have a discussion with Graham Oppie. I don't know if you've
ever heard of that philosopher, he's an atheist. Well, long story short, I'll shut up after this,
I just want to make the point to get your thoughts. When someone finally looks through all the literature
and goes, all right, I'm not buying it. I don't read the Quran, I believe it's true. I don't read
the Bible, believe it's true. These are myths. These are ancient cultural ways of trying to
understand the world around us, why we die, why we live, what's our purpose, etc. And we've kind of
cut through all that. But you still have guys like Bernardo Castro, who are saying, well, we're not
Christians. I don't believe in this particular philosophy as if these stories are literally
true. However, there has to be a mind above that. What is your personal response to that kind of thing?
Like, we've cut through all the woo woo, but we still think theism in some shape or form makes
better sense than that. Basically, the deist argument. In a sense, which by the way, which by
the real quick, just want to jump in real quick, you know, I noticed that fundamentalists will use
deist arguments, like, we don't know what happened before the Big Bang. So therefore,
Bible is true. And they jump, they take that huge leap from the high behind deist arguments
that you can't necessarily disprove more than you can prove, and then jump from that to, therefore,
Bible is true. Right. Yeah, there's a lot of steps in between there.
The Big Bang fine tune is to Jesus died for your sins. They have to make many moons to get there.
And there's enough moves there that to me, it just tells that it's culturally determined because
the other team can make the same moves and end up in Judaism or Islam or Buddhism or whatever.
Okay, the higher mind idea could be true. I mean, it's possible if you push back far enough,
you know, why should the laws of nature be as they are? Well, one answer is the multiverse.
There's multiple universes. And they have different laws of nature and the ones that
have laws of nature, they give rise to atoms and molecules and people that ask questions about why
we're here, you know, end up with what we have. And the others don't. And so we're, you know,
it's like somebody had to win the lottery, whoever wins the lottery feels like they're special,
that's us. Right. So this argument, the multiverse argument is, is a good one. It's reasonable. I'm
told by mathematicians and cosmologists that it's not a ad hoc hand waving move to deal with theism
at all. It's a derivative of the theory and the mathematics, which I don't do. So I don't know
for sure. But what's the alternatives? Okay, maybe there is a mind, but now it gets a little confusing
because you have a range of people like, like the philosopher you just mentioned and others who are
like pantheists or more like, no, what's the term, what's the term where everything is, oh,
a pan, what's the term? Panentheism or something. Yeah, panentheism. In any case, where, you know,
everything is mine. Like my friend Deepak Chopra, you know, he actually makes another move. He's
a mind modus. He's not a doulas. He's actually a monist in which mind is everything, not matter.
I'm a material monist. He's a mind modus. Basically. And they use certain language,
like Tillich, the theologian that Tillich defined God as the, you know, the ground of all being.
There is nothing underneath that. And so Deepak kind of uses that language. Consciousness is the
ground of all being. There's nothing underneath that you can't drill down. Like you drill down
into atoms and then into, you know, the nucleus and then into the the the quarks. And at some point,
you just end up with these, these energy fields. And, and that's the ground of all being, well,
no, no, these guys say, no, consciousness is, is, is below that. And then that's the ground of all
being, and there's nothing underneath that. And it's consciousness that gives rise to those fields
of energy, which give rise to quarks, which give rise to atoms, molecules and us. So they, they
kind of reverse the directionality. So the problem is, well, how do you test that? At some point,
it's just kind of an interesting metaphysical story that people tell, is there some way to test
it? And that that's much harder. And so you end up with these kind of epistemological walls that
we hit. So what, what is the ultimate explanation? Well, first of all, do we need one? I mean,
to what extent does it matter in your life? Okay, if it matters, then okay, go ahead and think about
it. Most people, they don't care. Right. You know, so it's sort of a kind of pragmatic truth. And,
and it doesn't make any difference to their lives. You know, do we have free will or not?
Well, on one level, we act as if we do, or else why would you bother to even get out of bed? What's
the point of this whole debate of free will and determinism? Well, for some people, you know,
it matters. But for most people, they just, it's a useful fiction. I feel free, like I'm a volitional
agent. That's how everybody acts. So I'm just going to pretend that it's real, even if the
determinists are right. So that's, again, one of these kind of pragmatic truths, it's a useful
fiction for getting around. I mean, the criminal justice, the entire criminal justice system is
based on assuming people have volition and free will, and therefore they're more morally culpable.
And we do have exceptions for that. You know, somebody who is brain damage, or they're severely
retarded, they didn't know what they were doing, or their psychopaths, they don't know the difference
between right and wrong. They have brain damage, or they have some, you know, the chemically
addicted drugs or whatever, or they're enraged, they caught their partner in palatio, or whatever.
And so they have a rage, the rage circuit, you know, explodes, and they kill the person.
You know, we have exceptions for those in the law, along with accidents and so on,
first-degree murder, second-degree murder, third-degree murder, all these with different
circumstances. But, you know, so some philosopher could say, no, no, no, that's all bullshit,
it's all determined. It began with the big bang, and it was all determined that
you would have me on your show today. That was determined 14 billion years ago.
On the one hand, you know, come on, who cares? On the other hand, you know, determinists are
going to, you know, push that argument. And at some point, if you can't get to an ultimate
answer, you just say, look, I feel free, it's a useful fiction, you know, you act the same way,
so we're going to just go with that. So I think that's kind of what these big mind-type
arguments, you know, what's behind all of it, the laws. Why is there something rather than nothing?
You know, it's just such a weird, conceptual way to phrase it. Why, why not reverse it?
Why not say nothing would be weird, and something is the default position? There's just always been
something. Even if it's not our universe, it could be like virtual particles, or quantum fields,
or something we're already in existence. It always have been. And then they give birth to
universes like ours. And, you know, so there might be big bangs popping in and out of
universes in and out of existence all the time. We're just only aware of this one.
At some point, we're just doing science fiction. We're just talking and kind of speculating
metaphysics, if we don't do the cosmological math behind it. And so I find these conversations
really interesting, but ultimately kind of fruitless, because you know, what are you going to do with it?
Unless, you know, if you're debating a theist, he says, no, no, I think God,
there is mind, and it's God. Okay, then, then we're back to where we started this part of the
conversation, which one? You know, it's, oh, but it was the, you know, Yahweh and his son Jesus,
and blah, blah, blah, and then you end up with Christianity or something. You know, to me, that's
a bit of a stretch. And they always, they're always say, you always say, okay, how do you,
if you're, if you're an alien from outer space, and you came down, how are you going to show
which one is the true one, they need to follow. And they're always having like, well, if they
read my book, then they'll have the answer. Or if they, if they come to my church, they'll figure
it out. It's like, don't you not see the irony there? You're asking why yours stands out from the
other ones. And your answer is because I'm here, basically. So you get that a lot. And what you're
talking about reminds me of Carl Jung's collective unconsciousness. And you sort of hear that
tossed around, and the New Age movements now. But what I think is, is kind of, I don't know if
you call it problematic, or just whatever, it's parent is people trying to use quantum science
for their, for their arguments for theism. And they totally, and I was guilty of this years ago
when I was coming out of Christianity, and I sort of went into Nazism, and I was, oh, the collective
unconsciousness is all, I started doing this, where I would say, Oh, look, have you ever heard of
quantum entanglement? Well, that means that there could be a God entangled with you right now is
watching everything. So, you know, you see the people, they misrepresent science, they don't
know what they're talking about. I'm saying because I was one of these people. And they'll use those
that as arguments for whatever, or spiritual worldview they want to do.
And it's always quantum physics, because it is weird. Yeah. And then you find anything else
that's spooky and weird, you go, Well, it's got to be related to that. Yeah, I just recorded an
episode of my podcast with Frijof Capra. I loved his book back in the 70s and 80s, the Tao of
physics and the turning point and the web of life. And he opens every, everything he ever writes with,
you know, the double slit experiment and the entanglement of particles. And, and therefore,
and then he ends up at some macro phenomenon, right, like free will or, or, you know, that,
that, that Buddhists have figured out the true nature of reality, because they were doing the
same thing quantum physicists are doing, they just use different language, that kind of thing.
Well, okay, here, back to signal detection problem, yeah, maybe, maybe the ancients had
figured this out, but maybe there's just so many ways to talk about reality. And the fact that you
can go through the texts of, you know, ancient philosophers and find some similarities to the
language that quantum physicists use and go, I think they must be, they must be related.
Maybe, but probably not. Right. There's just so many ways to think about, talk about the world,
you're going to find similarities. And again, it's all super interesting, because it hits
at these deep questions. But what we want to know, because we're limited in our knowledge,
is it actually true? Okay, so let's think about this way. There's, you know, there's religious
truths. And then there's empirical truths. And so if we take something like climate change,
you know, is global warming real? Is it primarily human cause? Okay, in principle,
we can answer this question for sure. Not 100%, but we can reach a consensus, which we largely
have, using a convergence of evidence from different fields of study, and do a kind of
Bayesian analysis of what are the probabilities that, you know, the signal, this pattern we think
we found, it's false, and it looks like it's not. Therefore, we can assume that there's a
truths multi about that conclusion, so on. So there's tools of rationality and science to
find some conclusions that we think are very likely to be true. Big Bang happened,
evolution happened, you know, so forth. And, but religious truths are not in that category.
So you mentioned, you know, the anthropologist from ours comes down and says, okay, which is the
right religion? And each of us said, well, we're the right one. And at some point, the anthropologist
was gonna, well, let me see your evidence. Let's see who's got the best evidence. Well, of course,
they all think they have good evidence, but they don't. And, and there's no experiment we're gonna
run. You know, it's like Einstein's famous general theory of relativity that Eddington then tested
with the Eclipse experiment. Now, that's a little more complicated story. But in the end, you know,
he was very, he was verified his, sorry, his theory was corroborated empirically. And, and
that's when he became famous. So having a cool theory like that is one thing. But, you know,
having it confirmed by your colleagues through some tests, that sets it apart from other truths.
So the fact that, you know, Christians believe that Jesus died and three days later came back from
the dead. And they call it a miracle, right? The ultimate miracle. So, you know, at this point,
I usually go through my Bayesian calculations and start with Hume. And, and what's more likely,
you know, that the odds are 100 billion to one, because 100 billion people lived and died before
the 8 billion alive now. And not one of them has ever come back from the dead. So we can put a
number on it. It's 100 billion to one. Of course, Christians say, no, no, no, one did. Name is Jesus
of Nazareth. He's the one. Okay, so it's 100 billion to one odds that this actually happened.
So what's more likely, you know, that, that, you know, the laws of nature were suspended or that
some small group of people got it wrong. You know, they they misperceived, you know, they heard the
story about the women went to the tomb and it was empty. And then afterwards, there were some
apparitions. And so on. So saw Jesus, the 500 people. So that's another 500 people saw Jesus,
you know, after he was dead. No, no, there's one account that says 500 people, not 40 years later.
That one, and that one accounts for 40 years. Yeah, right. That's right.
Sorry. No, I didn't mean to cut you off. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So I mean, you know, what's more
likely? Okay, so it's much more likely that some guy got it wrong than that the laws of nature were
suspended or a miracle happened. This is a basic humian type argument. Upgraded, say by Carl Sagan's
principle of ekri, extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. You know, coming back
from the dead would be quite extraordinary. You know, and how good is the evidence for it? It's
not extraordinary. It's pretty crummy, actually. It's very fraught with human and cultural elements
to it, probably, probably not. But that's not that's that's one argument. The second argument I make
is, if your arguments are so good, if the evidence is so obvious, because I've debated these people,
they go, it's clear, you know, almost 100%. You know, Jesus died and came back from the dead.
Why don't Jews believe it? Why don't Muslims believe it? I mean, you can't say, well,
they just don't know the arguments. If they understood the arguments, they'd be Christians.
No, you can't possibly mean that. I mean, these rabbis, this is what they do for a living. I mean,
they're professional philosophers, scholars, theologians, they know the arguments. They just don't
think they're very good. And the Jewish example is quite striking, because they believe the same
God, right? Yahweh. They believe the same God. At least the Old Testament. So, if your arguments
for Jesus' resurrection were so good, then these Jewish rabbis who are quite capable of understanding
your arguments, they should go, oh, yeah, yeah, okay, you're right. And then they become Christian.
And not even to add to what you just said, I was just talking about this with somebody else.
First of all, the Jews invented the Messiah concept. They're the ones that were waiting for
this Messiah. Second of all, according to the narrative in the New Testament, it says that they
saw literal zombies come out of the graves when Jesus died. It says in the book of Matthew that
the sky turned black and bodies came out of the graves and were walking the streets of Jerusalem.
So, you're telling me that the Jews that living in it, the Pharisees and the Sadducees saw this
while they're waiting for a Messiah and then said, yeah, nah, I'm gonna cover this up now. It
doesn't make sense. That's like saying, you have a choice to go here, open this box right here,
and you're gonna get eternal life. But open that box over there, you're going to hell.
You're gonna pick the one that, there's no way somebody's picking the one that doesn't make
any sense. And another thing I wanted to touch on was, so the goalpost, right, it keeps getting
moved. We learn more and more stuff as we learn more about science. So, and it makes me wonder if
the people who wrote the Bible knew what we knew today, would they write the same stuff? I'd say
no. Because first of all, they didn't know that there was a million galaxies out there with
different planets and stars. They thought the center of the universe was the Earth. So, they're
gonna write about this. I mean, this is stuff that like, as we go along, the goalpost gets changed
more and more. And we like, that would have changed everything. Just that alone would have
changed the entire game, knowing that we're not in the center of everything. We're actually on the
outer ring of the Milky Way, in the middle of nowhere. So, it's like, so the more we learn,
you would think that it would be like easier to fall off of these beliefs. But the goalpost just
getting shifted more and more. And they just said, well, you know, just that's what it is now. We're
just gonna fill in the, they just keep filling in the blank. So, it's not about what we know,
it's about what we don't know. And that's what they attack. What happened for the Big Bang?
Oh, you don't know? Well, therefore, God. And that's what it is. That's the argument.
Yeah. That's the God of the gaps argument comes up a lot. So, I rewrote Genesis in the
coda to my book, Why Darwin Matters, in the language of modern science. In the beginning,
specifically on October 23, 4004 BC at noon, out of the quantum foam fluctuation, God created
the Big Bang, followed by cosmological inflation and an expanding universe. And darkness was upon
the face of the deep. So, he created quarks. And therefrom, he created hydrogen atoms. And
thence, he commanded the hydrogen atoms to fuse and become helium atoms. And in the process,
to release energy in the form of light. And the light maker, he called the sun and the process
he called fusion. And he saw the light was good because now he could see what he was doing.
So, he created Earth in the evening and the morning with the first day.
Should I continue? Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. And God said, let there be lots of fusion light makers
in the sky. Some of these fusion light makers, he grouped into collections he called galaxies.
And these appear to be millions and even billions of light years from Earth,
which would mean that they were created before the first creation in 4004 BC.
This was confusing. So, God created tired light. That's actually a creationist argument, tired
light. And the creation story was preserved. And he created many wondrous splendors, such as red
giants, white dwarves, quasars, pulsars, supernovas, wormholes, and even black holes out of which
nothing can escape. But since God cannot be constrained by nothing, he created hockey and
radiation through which information can escape from black holes. This made God even more tired
than tired light in the evening and the morning or the second day. And God said, let the waters
under the heavens be gathered together unto one place and let the continents drift apart by plate
tectonics. He decreed that seafloor spreading would create zones of emergence and he caused
subduction zones to build mountains and cause earthquakes. In weak points in the crust,
God created volcanic islands where the next day he would place organisms that were similar to
but different from the relatives on the continents so that still later creatures called humans could
mistake them for evolved descendants created by a dafted ranger. And the evening and the morning
were the third day. Anyway, this goes on for another age. Oh, wow. You got to get the book,
seriously. This is beautiful. You want to read the rest of that. But of course, you know, that's not
what the language is because they wrote in the language of their own time. And, you know, people
then later read into what it is that they think that they're seeing now. Now, let's switch for
a second and think about, because I've had conversations with theists like that in which
they go, no, no, no, no, sure. I don't mean any of this literally. I mean, mythically, you know,
more like a Joseph Campbell, like, or maybe a Jordan Peterson, you know, like, I don't mean Jesus
literally came back died and came back from the I mean, metaphorically, mythically, you know,
we should all bear our own cross, we should bear our burdens, we should forgive people,
we should be born again in our lives, start over every day is a new day, start over born again.
And, and, you know, and so on, you know, to deal with the suffering of life, something like that.
It's like, Oh, okay. So it's a mythological truth. So there maybe maybe what they mean is
something like the free will useful fiction, not literally true, the determinants are right,
we live in a determined universe. So maybe the resurrection is something like a useful fiction
for the theists or Christians that, you know, this is what I believe because, you know, I don't
know, makes me feel good, it brings order to my life. And you do hear that. And so there, then
it's hard to know what to do with that other than they go, Okay, that's kind of a pragmatic
truth, whatever you want to do with that. And, you know, you don't want to take away something from
somebody that, you know, helps them get through the night. I mean, it's life is hard. So,
but it's, it's when the empirical claim is made that we then as scientists and
rationalists can say, hang on, hang on, hang on. If you mean literally, empirically, then we have
a problem on our hands, because we might have the evidence. But if you just mean this mythically,
I mean, in a way, it'd be like saying what, you know, where did it was Harry Potter reel?
It's like, what are you talking about? It's a novel, you know, or the brother's
Karamazov or just pick any novel or the Lord of the Rings, you know, the trilogy,
how is it that the first volume, it prophesies what appears in the third volume?
You know, but, but, but, but, but it would not be appropriate to say it's all bullshit because
somebody made it up. Therefore, there's no value in it. Of course, there's value in novels.
There's other kinds of truths and novels, truths about human conflict and human nature and
political systems and society and so on. Those are different kinds of truths. And maybe that's
what the Bible really is, is just the work of fiction with literary truths or mythical truths.
Yeah. And I think the, I think one of the big things that people don't mention when we come
to this conversation is that I think the biggest one of all is that people are scared of death.
So they need some, this is something that people tell themselves in order and like,
I would say probably for some people, it works. People who actually are convinced they're going
to heaven on their deathbed probably are not going to have a hard time. So, and that's like a,
I don't know if it's like a Platonic, the, you know, the cave allegory, like the, the noble
lie, basically Plato talked with the noble lie. Maybe that was the, the entire purpose for this
whole thing to begin with. Who knows? The problem is, is if that were the case, that has been lost
to its own followers. So technically, the noble lie has become the sole truth and everyone is
duped by the noble lie. They don't recognize it as a noble lie. They recognize it as objective
truth. And now that we're living in an age where objective truth is going to help us survive as
a species, we need to be able to distinguish between woo-woo and objective truth. And this gets down
to the problems. So I have fun with you, Neil. And of course, having people like him come on and
hang out with us. But Dr. Schirmer, I don't know if you knew this. I just want to throw this your
way to get your thoughts. There's a book being, well, it was already published now and it's just
not in America yet by a woman named Francesca Stravakapulu. And she's a Hebrew Old Testament
professor. And it's called God and Anatomy. Now she's Hebrew Old Testament scholar, right?
Or she's Hebrew Bible. We're talking about a boss when it comes to knowing this stuff.
The entire book is about how Yahweh, the Hebrew God, has a body. And the whole point is a physical
body. So she proves in the Bible, this is an anthropomorphic allegorical language of the
spiritual. Remember the goalpost thing you kept mentioning, Neil? They make God outside time and
space. However, she shows in the Hebrew Bible that is not the case. God lives within a locale in
the heavens, not outside of heavens. Okay. And that goalpost keeps moving. So if you can show from
their own literature, your God has hands, feet, a penis, had a wife named Asherah. I mean, like,
when you can prove these things from the history, the surrounding cultural context,
that should maybe wake some people up, hopefully. And then they can start to go, you know,
I personally, I got to say this in a shut up. I'd love to get your thoughts on this, guys.
I'm more in love with the story of our own history of how we came to be where we are now
than I am even though I love the stories of the Bible. I love the stories of these literature.
And I do, they teach us things in weird ways that, you know, like you talk about a certain type of
altruistic truths can be taught through these things. But knowing the facts is stranger than
the fiction. And it's like, whoa, this reality we live in, and the fact that we came to be what we
are, and we're thinking about the things of existence, just that to me is mind boggling.
Hmm. Well, I don't know what to make of that. It reminds me of one of those Star Trek movies where
that the deity wants to take over the Starship Enterprise. And at some point, Captain Kirk says,
why does God need a Starship? Shouldn't you be able to just kind of bounce around the universe?
What do you need my ship for? Turns out he wasn't a God. So, you know, the moment you put a, you
know, God into a physical being, then there's limitations. Does the physical being age, you
know, and become decrepit? Does it forget, you know, all the limitations of human bodies? So,
I'm pretty sure the theologian is going to accept that premise. Theologians though. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Because we're talking about scholars. But the fact that somebody can even write a book like
that and say it's based in the Old Testament or whatever she says, shows you how a broader reading
can be done based on this book. Well, I mean, you and I have all heard. We don't have to get into
theology, but we've all heard God does not change his mind or God is the same yesterday, today, and
forever. God knows everything. Well, when you read passages where it's clear that God does not know,
all they do is, once again, the goalpost, they move it. So where it's like, Adam, where are you
in the garden? You know, or like, man, I repent that I made man, I shouldn't have destroyed him
all like, or he's so angry that he did destroy him because he's like, man, he's angry after the flood,
destroying all a mankind almost, almost, like these emotions that we're reading, she's saying,
don't slide past that. Don't let the theologians trick you. This is exactly what other ancient
Near Eastern gods look like. And it's exactly what they did. So when you see that, and you can use
that against the apologist who are telling your grandma, she's going to hell, she doesn't send
10% of her tithes in, this is stuff I combat. And I love doing that with Neil. We've been,
we've been combating fundamentalism for a long time. People want to be theist, people want to
believe in things, I get it. At the end of the day, we're all going to believe in some things
that maybe we don't have the empirical data to support at the end of the day. However,
some things are just ridiculous and harmful and traumatic like hell.
Right. Well, when I was researching and writing heavens on earth, I,
in count of this issue of differences between religions on what happens in the afterlife,
where do you go? What's it like? And are you there physically? Are you there spiritually? What
does that mean? You know, my, where would my pattern of information that represents my soul
or my connectome that's my, all my memories or whatever, where is that, you know, some quantum
field somewhere? Is it in the cloud equivalent of whatever the cloud would be? And how old am I,
you know, when I'm there, you know, and some, you know, some theologians go, Oh, well, you'll
be 30, you'll be resurrected and in heaven in a physical body. Well, how old is the physical
body? 30, because that's the age Jesus was crucified. 30. Well, yeah, 30 was, I was strong
and young and had my better memory and a better body then than I do now. But I also have 37 more
years of memory that I've accumulated and experiences since I was 30, because I'm 67 now. So where
did those memories go? Are they there in the same brain? How does that even work? And then, of course,
others go, No, no, no, no, no, forget this physical body nonsense. It's, you know, you're,
it's just your soul. Well, what is that? Again, is that just my connectome that, you know, the
complete record of my memory? But there is no such record because no, it's not recorded in there in
the head. You know, it's a, it's a continually edited process. You know, it's not like there's
a memory of my 25th birthday, 21st birthday. I have pictures of that with me at my parents' house
and my family was there. But it's that picture that I'm remembering now, more than the experiences
themselves. So what's the true memory? There is no true memory. It's, you know, it's a constantly
edited process. And so what, what gets resurrected there? You know, which the real memories or the
memories of the memories and the edits of the memories of the memories. And, you know, and by
the way, it's not just religion that has this problem that scientists who want to upload our
minds into the cloud, people like Ray Kurzweil think we're going to live forever through this
mind uploading. No, they have the same problem. You know, what, you know, whenever you choose to
scan your connectome, and this can't be done, by the way, but let's just say, hypothetically,
we get there, and you'd have big enough computers to store the file and you, and then you then upload
it to the cloud. Well, what's there? It, you know, the moment you're done scanning my brain, that's
it. But I continue, you know, I'm having more experiences the rest of today, that's going to
alter my, my life experience a little. And the next day, even more and so on, as I continue on.
So you've just made a copy of me at that particular moment, that day, that hour, that's my who I am
at that moment. But there is no permanent self, the self is this kind of continuous process from
step to step, day to day, moment to moment. And, and so even, even the scientific attempt
to achieve immortality is flawed for the same reason that the religions are.
Well, did Joe Rogan ever get you to do DMT? No, I'm joking.
My wife forbids this. I'm not going down to Costa Rica.
I don't, I don't blame you.
But this is, I was going to say, this is an interesting question I'd like to ask you,
because you're a skeptic. Now, you're not just any skeptic, you're literally the
skeptic magazine skeptic. Okay, you're the guy, you're that skeptic. And in fact, you have created
a movement. In fact, I started calling myself a skeptic after I read The Believing Brain.
And, and I'm fine with calling myself an atheist, even if people pigeonhole me, because I know that
definition also has a little flexible meaning, unless you're talking metaphysical atheism,
but I'm not even going there. I'm not making a Gnostic atheistic approach like I know. But
at the end of the day, the question, I've never really heard anyone ask you this. All right,
maybe they have, but I haven't heard you answer this ever. Where do you find meaning? Because
I know I could give the answer. I know Neil could give the answer. We could give our own
personal explanations of how we find meaning. But a lot of theists just can't imagine that if you
don't have that mind above you, that deity above you, there's something that promises you afterlife
or eternal life or something. How do you find meaning? And for you, Dr. Schermer, where do you
find meaning in this life? Yeah. Yeah. Well, first of all, I don't see how the promise of
an afterlife gives this life meaning. If anything, and some philosophers argue this,
that we're going to die is what gives life meaning, that like, okay, this is it. I mean,
I could go, you know, I'm going to go on a bike ride this afternoon, I could get, you know, squashed
by a truck and that's the end. So I better enjoy this moment with you guys right now. This is it.
Let's hope this doesn't happen. But, but that's the idea that there's a terminus to the sequence
makes every moment in the sequence all the more pregnant with meaning by the fact that it's going
to end. Now, okay, so that's one counter to it. But you know, the whole afterlife problem is fraught
with other logical issues, not the least of which is, but, but doesn't that if anything degrade
the value of the moment, if all this stuff we're doing now is just a precursor to the big game
in the next life, you know, this, this, this, you know, kind of theater, the absurd we're living
through is just a preliminary before the big show and so on. Then why bother carrying now,
other than just reward and punishment, some cosmic courthouse afterwards. No, I don't, I don't,
I don't think any of that makes much sense to me. In any case, whether there's an afterlife or not,
you should assume that there isn't just in case and, and either way, don't miss out on this life
because this is the life you have for sure. Now, this is it. You 100% you know you're alive,
but you don't know with 100% that there's going to be another life after. So
you better, you better enjoy that. Okay, so where do I find meaning? Well, the way
everybody else does through meaningful work and family and loving relationships and friends
and, you know, a career that, you know, it's driven towards something bigger than myself.
I find meaning in my hobbies like cycling, working out every day, hikes with my dog in nature,
you know, there's a lot of research on this and going out into nature seems to make people feel
good. I like that, hikes in the woods and so on barefoot on the beach, those kinds of things that
the spiritual gurus kind of tell us are good, they're good. There's research that shows that
they're good. You know, I like to go into cathedrals. I also like to go into astronomical
observatories and I get the same experience. There's something about that that takes you out
of yourself. So this is what the research says, something that takes you out of yourself and
into something bigger than you. Whatever that is, science of course gives us that, but anything,
you know, volunteering for a non-profit or, you know, manning the soup kitchens or, you know,
helping somebody that needs help. And it's not about you, you know, it's not like giving the
donation of the university but your name on a building. That's not going to do it. It has to
be something that you value doing and it has, you know, some moral implications and so on.
Those are the sorts of things that people, you know, getting married, having kids, building a
family, having friends, all that. You know, people say that's what makes life worth living
and that's different than happiness. So doing things that make you happy at the moment is
short-term and of course that's all good. It's fun to, you know, go out to dinner with friends and
have a good time. But then it's over. Then, you know, what happens next? Okay, maybe something
bad happens and then you're not happy. But meaningful activities are long-term. That is, they have a
longer time horizon, both forward and back. So, you know, nostalgia of looking back on my life,
thinking, well, this is what I've done. And then looking forward, given that I've done this,
I want to do that. And, you know, and much of what I do is not fun. It doesn't make me happy
moment-to-moment. But it makes me feel more purposeful and meaningful. Like, my life has more
meaning than I'm doing this uncomfortable thing, whatever that is. And working out is, you know,
how I try, when I work out, I try to do it hard. And it's not fun, but I feel better afterwards.
Or, you know, care, example, I give caretaking for my parents, you know, driving, schlepping my dad
around doctors and medical centers and all this stuff. It wasn't fun at all. It was exhausting.
It was depressing. You know, it was just sad and so on. But I feel like I'm a better person for it.
And of course, I love my dad. And so, he appreciated that. And I would want somebody to do that for
me and on and on, you know, that. So, you know, much of what we do that psychologists study this,
tell us, we don't do it because it makes us happy. We do it because it makes us fulfill purposeful,
meaningful people. Yeah. And I'm thinking about what you're saying about, like, for example,
on a clear night, when I look up at the stars and I see everything, I get this, like, feeling like,
how lucky am I just to be alive? And whatever the process of the Big Bang, whatever happened,
that the result is that me being here, being, you know, conscious of being able to do things and
and experience life. And then I hear people like Michael or Dr. Krauss talk about how the beginning
in the universe was the size of an atom, and then it expanded to what it is now. That right there is
like way more powerful than any religion can just thinking about that. So, and so I want to switch
it up a little bit and go into the topic of morality, you hear all the time, your Christians and
Muslims say, well, you know, where does morality come from them? It has to come from God has to,
they always, it's like their big argument. And it's like, okay, well, let's take a look at this
for a second. Let's look at law codes. So you got the or or or Namu law code, and you got the
the Hammurabi's law code. And then you got the Bible's law code. And then you see how it's
progressingly getting, it goes from trial by death, where people get cast into the water,
if they do something wrong, getting their hands cut off for stealing. And then also,
you get to the New Testament, and it's like, well, love your neighbor, this, that, and third.
And then you see how our morality progresses over time, which makes someone like me say, look,
our morality comes from experience. We experience things over time as, as a collective society,
and decide, okay, that's not good. We shouldn't just sack other cities, because when it happened
to us, that sucked. We didn't like that. We shouldn't do it to other people. So that's what,
that's why I think morality comes from life experience, not some outside realm.
I want to hear what you think about that. Yeah, well, I would say comes from
not an outside of earth realm, but an outside of you and I, personally, or our culture,
from evolution, that is evolution gives us a human nature that includes a moral sense of right and
wrong that has to do with social relationships. We're not isolated creatures living in caves
by ourselves. We have to interact with other rational beings whose own self interest is primary
for them. So I, I can't appeal to you to treat me nice just because I'm me and you're not.
I have to appeal to you to say, well, you should treat me nice because I'm going to treat you nice.
So, you know, here, well, why should I do that? Because I would want you to treat me nice.
So therefore, I should treat you nice. You flip it. And that's the golden rule. Most
religions and cultures have discovered this independently because we are, that's who we
are by nature. So I call it discovery. It's not an invention, not some cultural quirkiness
to human culture. It's not relative. You know, these are true moral values that are in our nature.
And so the moment I recognize that you two are a moral agent, and if I want you to take me seriously,
I need to practice the principle of interchangeable perspectives. I need to put myself in your shoes
and think, well, how would I feel if I did this to him? Now, that's not perfect because oftentimes
people have different preferences. So maybe I wouldn't mind you doing X to me, but you would,
so of course, we have to adjust for that. And I call it the ask first principle. If you're not
sure, ask first before you do it. It's pretty simple. And in any case, there's, so there's kind
of a game theory logic behind it that I developed in the moral arc. I have a long chapter on, you
know, how this is all in our nature and what you can derive from that, which is a lot, actually.
And the progress we've been making over the centuries is basically to expand the moral
sphere to include more people as honorary family members, friends and members of our tribe. Our
tribe has been getting larger. In essence, I would be nice to my fellow family members because
they're genetic relations. I'd be nice to my fellow group members because I know them and we're
going to interact together for life and therefore it pays me to be nice to them. I want them to
be nice to me, but I can't pretend I can't fake being a nice person because if I'm just a psychopath
and I'm just manipulating people to get my way, but I don't actually believe it. I don't really
have true friends. I don't really love people. I'm just faking. They'll know that because in time,
the tells are clear. You know, and this is why psychopaths and so on, they can get away with
it for a while. You know, the cheating spouse, the lying spouse or whatever, they can get away
with it for a while, but eventually get caught. And so we have cheating detection modules or
networks in our brain that are, you know, we're sensitive to that as a problem. So we look for
it. So true morality is that I actually want to be nice to you. I actually feel good about it. Like,
this is the right thing to do. I feel right about it. You appreciate it and you reward me for that.
And that's true morality. That's as good as it gets. You know, you don't need an outside source
to say, good job, Michael. You get a little present. You get an M&M in heaven. To me, that's a shallow
way of thinking about it. So from there, you can build entire moral systems, which of course are
complex. I mean, there's no right answer to the abortion issue or immigration issue or
reasonable complex social political issues because of conflicting interests that people have and
conflicting moral values in the details, like conflicting rights, the rights of the mother
to choose to do what she wants with her body and her baby and the rights of the fetus to live.
So there's no right answer to that. It's like what depends on what, you know, the culture is
decided and, you know, this is in the news now, or, you know, the trans rights, you know, that
don't trans have a right to their own, you know, bodies and choices and their own sports divisions.
And if they identify, as a man identifies as a woman, shouldn't she be able to compete in
women's divisions? Well, yes, except unless it's conflicting with women's rights to compete against
somebody who is physically in their same category. And if it's a trans man who's not transitioned
for very long and the body is still quite different, then that's not fair. So you get conflicting
rights, bathrooms or prison, women's prisons. There's all these guys apparently that want to
transition to become women so they can go into women's prisons. So they just declare themselves
to be women and then they want to be transferred. I don't know how often this is actually happening,
but it's happened a few times. So I know that it's at least worth a conversation.
And so, but again, all this is premised on this idea, this kind of long trajectory of
more liberal, socially liberal values that we've all incorporated to the point where conservatives
are more liberal than liberals were in the 50s, socially liberal. I mean, most conservatives
today, you know, they, they don't object to interracial marriage. I mean, nobody,
almost nobody does anymore. It's that pollsters don't even ask anymore. There's no point.
Now it's gay marriage. And since 2015, even conservatives have largely quit talking about
it. It's like, yeah, whatever, Jesus loves everybody, including the gays. Okay.
You know, and that's kind of how it happens. They, you know, they, well, how would I feel
if I was gay and I wasn't allowed to marry? Well, I wouldn't like that. So therefore, that's,
that's why that's, you know, laws against gay marriage are wrong. And that's, so this is not
a random trajectory. This is a real trend based on our discovery of human nature, you know, that,
you know, Lincoln famously said, as I would not be a slave, I would not be a slave master.
And he said, you know, slavery is not wrong, nothing's wrong. So just, you know, take that
simple example. That, that's the principle of interchangeable perspectives in a way. It's
the golden rule. And, you know, we've been doing that more and more for, you know, the last several
centuries. And, you know, that's progress. Totally agree. You too. Yeah. So objective or
subjective at the end of the day seems subjective, but I have heard a lot of philosophers, even
the atheist ones, who are suggesting that they think it is objective. And it's depending on
what you're defining that as. But I guess it depends on what we mean by that, because I asked
this question in a super chat the other night, didn't get it answered, where the guy seemed to be
more of a theistic philosopher in some sense. And he was taking a different approach to morality.
And I just was like, so thousands of years ago, when our ancestors were actually giving the most
valuable object they have, which was their firstborn son at the time, because patriarchal
patriarchal systems, they were giving their firstborn son sacrificing them as burnt offerings to
gods. You know, do you think they felt like this was morally wrong to do, yet they were doing it?
It just seems like probably not. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm fond of asking my students after I show
them all the Milgram experiments and the Nazi stuff, you know, how many of you would shock the
subject to 450 volts to these dead? And, you know, pretty much all my students go, oh my god, no,
I would never do that. Well, actually, they probably would. They lived in the 1940s or whatever.
Right. Milgram doing experiments in the 60s. You know, that, you know, we can't put ourselves
back into other people's cultures and think like a modern would and say, well, I wouldn't do that.
Of course, you wouldn't with today's standards, but you probably would have been. Now that said,
you know, the fact that you have, like with slavery, the fact that you have to impose it on
people with chains and whips and guns and violence, it does seem to be a sign to me that they must
have known that these people don't want to be enslaved. They gotta know. Why else would you
have to lock them up and beat them? Right. So, you know, but I have a whole section in
the moral arc on, you know, Christian rationalizations for slavery in the 18th and 19th centuries
through sermons. There's research on this. Eugene Genevies and his wife did this research on
sermons that preachers gave about talking about slavery and the justification of it. It's just
stunning. They actually really seem to believe this is really the greatest thing. You know, look,
we're giving them culture, we're giving them Christianity, we're going to save their souls,
that life is better than it was in Africa. They just go on and on. That, you know, today just
sounds completely mad, barking mad type arguments. But these were the arguments of intelligent,
educated people, you know, a century and a half, two centuries ago. And so I can't say for sure,
I would be somehow, you know, just morally elevated guru, you know, condemning all the bad
things in the past. I don't know. And so I think, you know, we just look forward and think, you
know, what's next? And, you know, that's hard to say. I still eat meat. I try not to eat too much.
But, you know, maybe a century from now, people will look back at us and go, God, those people
were barbaric. Look how they treated animals. And they ate them. It's worse than slavery.
And it's like Auschwitz and slavery combined. They killed them and ate them. Terrible cannibalism,
you know, and it's possible, you know, that people will look back on us as just these barbarians.
So who knows? Well said. Yeah, I thought about that with prison, too, by the way. I think the
way that we think prison reform is going to help BS. Like we know we have plenty of studies now
to know locking people in a box, all right, giving them a toothbrush and a metal can to poop in.
Okay, it's not helping people reform. Now, there's very few people who get through it
and the experience somehow helps them. Most people, though, it just actually become more
corrupt and see a dark side of humanity being locked like monkeys in a cage. I think we'll
look back at this and go, what the hell were we thinking? But anyway, no, did you have anything
you wanted to add? I didn't ask if you thought objective or subjective. That's one of the things
you didn't really say yes, objective or subjective, but I suspect. Oh, well, again,
much is loaded in those words. What do you mean by objective? Most people think of some kind of
Archimedean point outside of the earth that gives us our moral values of right and wrong.
And well, first of all, Plato made short shrift of that argument back in the 5th century BC,
4th century BC. Thank you. The Youth Afro argument that
if moral values are dependent upon God or the God saying that they are right and wrong,
are there reasons? Do they have reasons for these? Did God have reasons? And if so, what are the
reasons? And why can't we just skip the middleman and just use the reasons? And if there's no good
reason, it's just God's whim. Well, what if God whimsically says to kill and pillage and rape and
destroy the people in genocide, which he did in the Old Testament quite frequently? So again,
you'd have to read into it with modern ears or modern eyes and find some twist to make it sound
not so bad. But anyway, none of that holds up. It doesn't. In any case, isn't it a higher moral
value to just say, you should be good for goodness sake. Full stop. Take it from there. How would
you feel? And so on. Rather than saying, well, I'm getting it from this holy book. Well, but there's
more than one holy book, which is the right one. And most of them, since they're old, have moral
values that we would find, well, pretty repulsive, really. I mean, you really have to spend doctor
a lot to make it sound not so drastic. Okay, Dr. Shermer, I've got one for you. You made a quote
in your book, The Believing Brain, which I've read multiple times. It's one of the most,
like it's one of the go-tos. I ask people to really go check it out. And one of the statements,
I've got to pull it up here. You say humans are no less superstitious than animals. And
that's a big one, right? Because a lot of humans, we like to think we know better than animals.
But you're in your chapter on patternicity. You're pointing out that they've done these experiments
and they've shown that humans fall in the same pattern trap as animals. And can you take us into
that example where they set these humans, I can't remember the experiment, but they're pretty much
like turning knobs and hitting buttons and stuff. And they think they're actually getting something
out of it because it's, I can't remember what it is in the brain, but there's something there they
think they're going to reward themselves with. That's right. Well, you showed those faces in
the clouds earlier. It's something like that, just random noise. It could be just blips in your
earphones or it could be blips on a screen or patterns on the screen or a sequence of numbers.
I've even seen done with a magic eight ball where you rotate the ball and people are pretty,
but you don't show them that you're using the magic eight ball. You just give the sequence of
of answers or numbers or whatever. And people are quite certain there's a pattern there,
even though there's no pattern. And so it's all, it's very difficult to not see patterns. In fact,
the studies on randomness and our psychological perception of randomness, we have a really hard
time understanding what randomness looks like. And, and the reason is, is because randomness has
patterns to it. There are clusters. Again, you just lots of examples, you throw a handful of pennies
up in the air and they land on the ground. They're not going to be perfectly evenly distributed.
There's going to be clusters. There's going to be constellations of patterns like the stars in the
sky. Those are random. That's what randomness looks like. It looks clustered into meaningful
patterns. Of course, that's all in our, our mind. Steve Gould wrote a nice essay on this on the
glow worms in Australia. You go inside these dark caves in the little bio fluorescent light
lighting up. And the patterns are all perfectly even, almost perfectly evenly distributed,
because they're distributed based on the allocation of, of resources that they get their food from.
So they're all kind of spaced out. So they all get the same amount of resources here,
something like that. And, but, but Gould's point was that it looks like a night sky, except there's
no constellations. They're all just evenly distributed. And, and that's non random, right?
Randomness is cluster or cluster. So I tell this in my lecture on the subject, I tell the story of,
you know, when Steve Jobs first came out with the iPod, and then they had the new random feature
that what it's, what's it called the, but we just randomly pluck songs out to play for you.
I forget what the feature is called on the iPhone now, in any case. Yeah, there's shuffle. Yeah,
the shuffle feature. Thank you. And then Apple is getting complaints from customers saying,
this isn't random, because I keep hearing certain songs over and over and other songs
come up hardly at all. And it's like, that is what randomness looks like. It's clustered.
And, and of course, the human mind finds those kind of clusters meaningful. So again,
more research. Yeah. Subjects to flip a coin in your mind and write down what you
think a random sequence of heads and tails would be. And ability that do things like heads,
tails, heads, tails, heads, tails, heads, heads, heads, tails, tails, heads tails, heads, heads tails
tails, heads heads tails. In reality, it's more like heads, heads, tails, tails, tails, tails, tail,
tails, heads, heads, heads, heads, heads tails, heads, heads, heads heads, heads, tails tails tails tails
right? Long clusters. So this throws people off they think, well, that's not random. No,
that is random. That is what randomness looks like. So our whole perception of the world,
I use Leonard Milano's book, The Drunkard's Walk, in my book, in my class, because so much of life
actually is this kind of what we think of as random. But in fact, it's not random or vice versa.
And, you know, there's regression to the mean and other statistical effects, probabilistic effects
that happen in clusters, sports or movies or books or sales, I mean. And it looks and we follow
those trends up and down as if there's a causal meaning behind each increase in sales of a movie,
type of movie or decrease in sales of a type of book or whatever. We think there's something
behind it. But in fact, there's nothing behind it. Oftentimes, these things just go up and down
for no reason at all. And of course, salespeople and marketing people, they want to figure out
what's the cause of why did the stock market go up yesterday and they look for causes. And the
answer is usually for no reason at all. It just kind of bounces around randomly. And so that very
much throws off how we perceive the world. And of course, science has a whole set of tools to deal
with that in statistics and research methodologies to control for those kinds of effects so we don't
get fooled by randomness. So I hold another book, fooled by randomness. And just putting in simply
that statement that humans are just as superstitious as animals is because of this pattern seeking
agency, if you will, this assuming patternicity.
If anything, we're worse because we're so smart and we have language and conceptual ideas that we
can place on top of the patterns we think we see in the randomness, all kinds of deep causes that
may or may not be there, right? So religion being one of them and other superstitious ideas
that we, you know, graft onto them or, you know, new age ideas, a bunch of new age ideas is again
trying to figure out, well, why do things happen? Everything happens for a reason. No, actually,
most things happen for no reason at all. Right. Wow, that's interesting. Okay, let me bring us
all three on here. This brings me to one of the interesting points you mentioned earlier,
the double split experiment. And in that double split experiment, I want to conclude with this
particular idea. I talk to Muslims, Muslims say prophecy and other reasons why the Quran is true
and their prophet Muhammad is the guy, Jesus, Christians, you know how that goes. Everybody's
bringing their own little thing that somehow shows, well, Judaism and Christianity will go,
in the beginning God created them in the earth. We know the universe had a big bang.
Boom, here's a way to prove way back then how we knew something. It took you guys this long
to actually start catching up. And this is the way they phrase it. Well, you mentioned this double
split experiment and this guy who's coming from a Buddhist type worldview is using the same idea.
He's trying to argue that the Buddhists knew all along. For me, practicality of certain things
that are pragmatic that work is common sense. After a while, you kind of figure out, okay,
if I don't do that, this is what we see happening. If I do this, this is what we see happening.
I'm going to start doing this because this helps or whatever it might be. The point I'm getting to
is, is how like when you're talking to these people on your own podcast that are bringing
these arguments of, oh, look at this, look at this double split. We already knew this a long
time ago. Look at, look at the big bang. We already knew this a long time ago from Judaism.
Like, what do you particularly, do you ever take jabs and go, look, I just don't, or you too polite
to your guests and you're like, well, I'm going to just let these people kind of
say this. At the end of the day, whatever I say, ultimately, isn't going to change their beliefs.
I mean, as we know, beliefs aren't really decisions we just make. They're not just simple choices.
There's a lot of reasoning behind why people believe in things.
Emotion too.
Right. So my question is, this is a big package. I don't know how you want to answer this and I
don't care how you answer it. What do you do with all of that? What do you do when someone
comes along and they make these cases?
Right. Another way to phrase it would be, you know, what do you do at Thanksgiving dinner
coming up here? And when, you know, crazy Uncle Harry, it says, you know, QAnon is real and Biden
stole the election and Trump threw you the president. Okay. Well, you can just keep your
mouth shut. That's one answer. But, you know, if you want to say something, you can challenge it,
but it has to be done in a way that's, you know, polite and respectful or else you're not going
to make any headway. Probably not going to change anybody's mind. You know, that's usually not my
goal in a conversation with people that change their mind right on the spot because that almost
never happens. People quietly change their mind later when, you know, they don't say face and they
don't have to give up anything on the spot. And, you know, that's usually how it happens. So you
plan a seat of doubt, maybe, or just think about this and just, you know, ask probing questions.
How do you know that's true? Or where'd you hear that? Or, yeah, that's super interesting. But,
but I'm not sure that I believe it will, you know, give me your best arguments or what would
it take to change your mind, you know, or, or, you know, is there any contrary evidence or you're
thinking of any examples that don't fit the theory, you know, that kind of thing. Just, just ask,
just ask, just asking questions as they call it. But in this case, it's, it's, it's a strategy, kind
of a Socratic method of, of just probing somebody's epistemology. How do you know that that's true?
And what would it take to change your mind? But you should do that in a way that's respectful,
you know, look people in the eye, nod, you know, actually listen to what they are saying,
steal man, their argument, try to repeat to them what you think they just said.
Oftentimes you didn't get it right or they hear it and they think, oh, that sounds so good. Let me
try to rephrase that. And, but, you know, the whole point of that is to get, so that we're not talking
across purposes, that we're talking about the same thing. We've, you know, pinpointed there. It's
right there. That's the thing we're talking about. You think this and I think that can, you know,
how can we resolve that? That's the ultimate point of conversations along those lines. And
so, yeah, for me, most of my questions on my own podcast, I try to be a polite guest.
Some of my listeners would rather I be a little more forceful, particularly when I have conservatives
on. So maybe I'll do that some more. But, you know, it's different when I'm a guest on somebody
else's show, then I'm more free to just kind of slam hammer away on that. Oh, I do pound on the
conservatives a lot. I have to say in the woke up. So I thought you have alienated lots of people.
Okay. So I was, I thought you were pretty good on Joe Rogan when it was you and Randall Carlson.
I thought that was just, it was just really grand Hancock. That was a long way. Yeah. Yes. Yes.
Yeah. That was interesting. You know, I'm not buying you, but you, I don't, I don't know if you
heard this server or probably heard this a million times. You handled it amazingly. Like you were
just, just doing good, man. Like that's actually how I discovered you from actually watching that.
That was my introduction, that was my introduction to Michael Sherman was that
podcast. That's, I now, now I remember that I was a big fan and don't get me wrong. I'd love to
talk to Randall Carlson myself just to hear some of his thoughts. But I guess to be polite, where
do you categorize him and Hancock? I mean, do you put them in the kind of, I'll turn it. Well,
Graham himself calls himself an alternative archaeologist. He knows what he's doing is out of
the mainstream. And I think in a way he kind of likes that. He's kind of poking the hornet's
nest, challenging the mainstream. That's okay. That's the role for that for outsiders to challenge
the authorities. That's okay. That's good. You know, because a lot of times they get it wrong,
even, you know, a community of people can be all wrong in the wrong direction.
You know, there is certain gateway gatekeepers there that, that, that is true with peer review
and journals and publication of books and allocation of funds for research. That's true in all fields.
So it's good to have someone like him. And I like Ram. He's a good guy. He's a smart guy. He's a great
writer actually. I've listened to several of his books on audio. He reads them. And of course,
that British accent is so charming for Americans. Elevates the quality of the argument much better
instead of the British accent. And but ultimately, I think they're wrong because of
because of certain principles, they're kind of doing what we call anomaly hunting. You know,
if the mainstream theory can't explain this little thing over here, therefore, the mainstream
theory has a problem. No theory explains everything, right? Every mainstream theory has
anomalies, unexplained phenomenon, and so on, like the UFO people, they admit that 95% of all
sightings are fully explained by natural phenomenon. They're hanging on to that 5%. So what do you do
with that? So in science, you don't have to do anything with it. You just say, look, you know,
this is what we know. Here's this little 5% we don't know. And, you know, maybe we'll figure it
out. Maybe we won't. It's okay. This is still the best explanation for now, as opposed to
taking the anomaly and then spinning that out into a whole different worldview. The aliens have come
here. The pyramids were built by this ancient lost civilization and so on. To me, that's not
justified. Going that far is not justified from what we know, just from the anomalies.
I follow Graham on Twitter. He's always posting stuff about things keep getting older.
Sometimes they don't get older. New information comes up and it turns out it's not what we
thought it was, and it's not older. Sometimes it is, but it depends what you mean by that,
what to take with it. To me, I just think, well, that's how science works. It turns out we were
wrong about this. Now we found out it's that. Okay, good. But rather, alternative people tend to look
at that and go, aha, you see, they were wrong. And therefore, the edifice, the larger edifice,
has a deep problem. And therefore, I'm going to come in and fill it in with my idea. Well,
and everybody points to Einstein or something like this. Well, he's, you know, quite the rare
exception. But I also point out that Einstein published all his works in, you know, mainstream
peer review German physics journals. There was nothing unusual. He didn't come out with some big
book, you know, published, self-published. And, you know, he broke open the, you know, the whole
paradigm and so on. He didn't. He ground away like everybody else. And it took, you know,
like 20 years, let's just say, from 1900 to 1920, the first big papers were 1905, but he was working
before that. And, you know, and it wasn't until Eddington's eclipse experiments that others
confirmed in the 1920s that he became really world famous as, you know, a paradigm shattering
major intellectual giant in human history. It wasn't, it didn't come overnight. And, and,
and he did it through the normal channels, you know, the whole community of physicists in Germany
that he worked with, they all knew each other. It wasn't like he came out of nowhere, you know,
they knew exactly where he came from. And anyway, so that's it. That's how I think about that.
Do, and I think you're, I agree with most of what you're saying about Graham Hancock. He got,
he's, he's an interesting guy, but I think he's wrong about a lot of things, especially when it
comes to like pyramids and stuff like that. But, um, do you think he has a sort of a point with
Quebec Le Tepi? Or no? Yes, the Quebec Le Tepi thing is super interesting. To me, I take that to
mean that we've missing, we kind of misinterpreted the capabilities of hunter-gatherers, not
misinterpreted. We, we've underestimated their abilities to do things. And, you know, it's kind
of a bigotry of low expectations, as it's called, you know, that these ancient peoples are so dumb,
they couldn't possibly have done this. So that must have been the aliens or the ancient Atlanteans
or some other boss civilization. Maybe they're just better than we can, we understand. Maybe they
were just capable of doing more than we thought they could. Now, the argument with Quebec Le
Tepi is that 11,000 years ago, there was no agriculture and farming. Therefore, there was
nothing to support a large population. Therefore, not enough numbers to move those big blocks around.
You need a division of labor and so on. Yes, that's all true. So to me, it's like, okay, archaeologists,
you got to reconfigure how you think about hunter-gatherers. Maybe they're just quite capable of
doing big things and we just didn't know. Rather than make the leap to, you know, therefore they
couldn't have done it. Therefore, it's this ancient lost civilization. I don't want to go that far.
I don't think that's necessary. That makes sense. You know, I got to tell everybody, let's read
his books. I really want to have you come back and do more. You finally got to meet my friend Neil
Nosterkonformant. I highly recommend everybody to go check out his website, skeptic.com. Like I said,
if you don't want to go to hell, this is where you go. I mean, I guess we might as well use the
same rhetorical crap that, you know, they are using in order to convince people to do things, right?
So here it is, you know, go to skeptic.com and don't go to hell forever or don't go to skeptic.com
and go to hell forever. So it's either way. Also, MichaelShermer.com, that's his website. He's got
the podcast, absolutely mind-busting topics that you're always talking about that just really,
by the end, you got to take a nap because your brain is hurting so much. I mean, it really is
amazing some of the things that you have brought to the world and just being that avenue for people
to be skeptics. It's okay in this country we have that we live in today. We can be skeptics and we
want others to kind of be encouraged to think that way, even if their epistemology leads them, let's
say, to theism or something that personally they choose. Let's practice skeptic, you know, tools
and I love this. So get his books. I'm going to read more and I want to interview you more on some
of your other subjects, your other books and go from there. Neil? No, it's just been my pleasure
to have you on and, you know, like Derek was saying, your podcast, your YouTube channel,
you're the guests you bring on, the conversations you have are just thought-provoking, just
on another level. So go check that out, everyone.
