Mike Render, Scientology is like the best religion on planet Earth, isn't it?
Oh, yeah, absolutely. Hey, Derek, how are you?
Hey, how's it going? You've got a new YouTube channel,
and I hope that everybody who really wants to know a thing or two about it,
and of course, Scientology, they'd go check you out, but you also got a book.
So we're going to do a little shameless plugging for one second and say,
this is very important. If you want to know what the heck is going on
and why people are leaving this cult, Mike's story is a threat to the foundation of this entire
quote-unquote religion. Be sure to check out his book. It's amazing. It's read by him.
He also has a YouTube channel, so he's doing live streams and literally taking your questions.
He's literally taking on everybody's questions. And the video you did this morning,
how many taxpayers subsidize mansions, homes, etc. Does Elron Hubbard need? I mean, like,
wow. So please go subscribe. The link is going to be down in the description,
and I look forward to having this talk with you, Mike.
Me too, Derek. Always a pleasure.
So these people are like total innocent saints, I hear, because in 1970, they performed a
legal activity toward the IRS, the FBI and such, right?
Oh, yeah. They're the epitome of humanitarians and those who fight for the human rights of
all people's own earth. And it's kind of interesting when you pull back the curtain
on the reality of Scientology to see just how sinister and evil it is behind that facade.
Because Scientology always paints itself as victims and champions of the underprivileged and
the downtrodden and the abused and against bigotry and against hatred. And, you know,
some of the videos that I've now done on my YouTube channel actually go back to
what did Elron Hubbard say about how Scientologists are supposed to address
law enforcement and the courts. And, you know, I've got a bunch that I'm planning
upcoming, like, how the Scientologists really feel about Christianity and what did Hubbard say
about Christianity because Scientology pretends that they love Christianity and they love people
from all religions. And this pretended perfect, wonderful, loving, kind, gentle organization
is just literally all done for PR. And behind the scenes, they are abusing people every day,
and they believe that they have the right to do that, that they have a God-given right, or maybe
an Elron Hubbard-given right to abuse people. Because if those abused people shut up,
then Scientology will be able to get on with its business better. And if Scientology gets on with
its business better, every man, woman, and child on planet Earth will benefit from that. So what's
the harm in destroying the lives of a few people, or a few hundred people, or a few thousand people
when you're looking at saving the very eternity of the eight billion people on planet Earth?
Yeah, it's an interesting, interesting subject, and there is a lot to know about what the reality
is of Scientology, because you can't believe anything that they say publicly.
I want to take us to that 1970s situation. This is before your time within the cult of having any,
like, say so. But they did this and 11 people were arrested, including Elron Hubbard's wife.
Hubbard didn't get arrested. But I can't imagine he wasn't the one behind pulling the guns on this.
And can you comment on this and what the hell was going on with these Scientologists at the time?
Well, yeah, sure. And in fact, let me give another shameless plug. I did another one of those,
my YouTube videos, about the sentencing memorandum that the Department of Justice
filed in the court in that case. And it is devastating. And it is based on the evidence
that they collected. What happened was the Guardian's Office of Scientology, which was a
Department of Scientology that Hubbard had created in 1966 and put his wife, Mary Sue Hubbard, in
charge of, was the Department that was denominated as the defenders of Scientology. Within the scope
of defending Scientology, Hubbard has very clear policy and instructions. Always attack,
never defend, destroy your enemies, get rid of them. And like I was saying earlier,
this is all based on this principle that if you destroy a few people or a few hundred people
and they're impeding Scientology, that's a good thing because the overall good is greater than
the harm that comes to them. Anyway, Hubbard developed all these directives for the Guardian's
Office on what they were supposed to do to deal with their enemies. And I've also written about
that pretty extensively and quoted a lot of the Hubbard doctrine about it, about framing people
and setting them up. And in the mid 1970s, the Guardian's Office decided that they needed to
do something pursuant to Hubbard's direction about the governments of the world, particularly the
United States government and the IRS, because the IRS was in the view of Hubbard harassing Scientology,
denying tax exempt status, claiming that he was unjustly benefiting from Scientology.
So Scientology created a massive campaign to spy on, infiltrate, and steal documents from the
United States government. And one of their agents, or actually two of their agents,
eventually got caught in the IRS with fake IDs, rifling through the file cabinets there in order
to steal a bunch of documents, and they got arrested, but they were let out on bail. That got,
one of those men, Michael Meisner was his name, was subsequently flown to Los Angeles and basically,
not basically, he was kidnapped. He wanted to go back and appear at his arraignment or whatever
it was and turn himself into the FBI and just sort of say, look, we did all this because,
you know, you people have been harassing us and sorry, me a culpa and take, like,
do what a normal person would do when caught in the act of a crime. The Guardian's Office,
under the direction of Mary Sue Hubbard, went, no way, buddy. And they moved him,
they put him in a safe house in Los Angeles. They had a series of them. They transported him
between these safe houses. He had a 24-hour day guard. When they moved him from safe house to
safe house, they literally tied his hands, put a tennis ball in his mouth, and put him in the
back seat lying down of the car that they used to transport him. He eventually
pretended that he was cooperating and in agreement. And the minute there was an opportunity,
he escaped and went straight to the FBI. The FBI then used his testimony to get search warrants
for the Guardian's Office offices in Los Angeles and Washington, D.C. And they conducted a massive
raid. And in that raid, they collected all these documents that showed that Scientology was engaged
in not only spying on the United States government, but on all sorts of different
organizations and people and conducting campaigns to destroy people. The most well-known of those
is Paulette Cooper, who was a journalist and Scientology had basically framed her for
making bomb threats against Henry Kissinger and the Church of Scientology in New York.
They had literally done all these schemes. They got their fingerprint on pieces of paper.
They typed these fake bomb threats. And she was literally being criminally prosecuted in
federal court in New York and was going to be convicted and sent to prison until these documents
were seized. And lo and behold, in the documents were the exact plans of how they were going to
carry out this campaign against Paulette Cooper and frame her. And so she was saved by that. But
what happened was the government then prosecuted Mary Sue Hubbard and 10 other
of the leading officials of the Guardian's Office. They named Elrun Hubbard an unindicted
co-conspirator. The reason for that is because Hubbard carefully had never put his actual name
on any of the documents. They were all unsigned. Everybody knew that they were from him.
They wouldn't be following them if they weren't from him. But there was a problem that his name
didn't appear anywhere. And each one of the people from his wife on down in the Guardian's Office
claimed that he knew nothing about what they were doing. That was complete crap. He absolutely
knew. He spoke to Mary Sue. He got reports from her. He lauded the Guardian's Office for their
magnificent work. But they knew that if they said anything that indicated that Hubbard had actually
been involved in their activities, he would be indicted and probably found guilty. And in the
minds of Scientologists, that would be the ultimate sin. The sin that you could never recover from
was to put Elrun Hubbard into the hands of the government who was bent on his destruction and
the destruction of Scientology. So he got away with it. Mary Sue and all the rest of them ended
up going to prison. Once this all happened, Hubbard basically disowned not only all the people in
the Guardian's Office, but his own wife. And she never saw him again. He never communicated to her
again. She was kept in a home in Los Feliz once she got out of prison and was monitored 24 hours a
day by people who reported directly to David Miscavige. Sorry for going on and on, but it's
just one sort of complete story. Thank you so much for that. Why do you think Scientology is still
a living quote-on-quote religion? It makes very little sense to me in light of all that has happened.
And I suspect we'll get into some of the details from Lisa McPherson to, I mean, you name it all
this stuff and the tax exemption, right? Why hasn't that been reversed? All this stuff. You see
Leah Remini's show come out. You come out. You've blown for good. I mean, all of these testimonies,
the cult leader himself should be behind bars. And this thing's flourishing, or at least it's
seemingly not touched. What's the problem here, Mike? What are we facing? Well, it's not that it's
not touched, Derek. It is absolutely touched. They are shrinking faster than they've ever been
expanding. The difficulty is there's a number of factors that enter into this. One, they have a lot
of money, like at least $3 billion. And that money will prop up an empty failing organization for a
long, long, long time. Think about how long seers lasted. And if you've got buildings, which they do,
empty, but they've got a lot of buildings, they own a lot of property, and enough people to turn
on the lights. I mean, Scientology today is in the sort of last 10-year stage of seers or Kmart.
They are empty shelves with enough people left to turn the lights on, but they are hemorrhaging.
And the reason that the United States government has not acted to revoke Scientology's exempt status
is that, and I've written about this extensively, but there's a lot of factors that go into this.
But one is, unfortunately, by reason of having been granted the exempt status, they have a sort of
assumed protection under the First Amendment. And the First Amendment is a very, very heavily
favored toward the religious organizations. And if you can get yourself in under that cloak,
you have a lot of protection. And even though the mainstream religious organizations do not
like Scientology, they're kind of happy to have Scientology and the Jehovah's Witnesses and these
other sort of fringe things out on the edges and sort of come to their defense, because they
believe that if the government is able to take away the tax exempt status of Scientology or
Jehovah's Witnesses or one of these other organizations, that they'll be coming for them
next, if that it's a slippery slope. So you see a lot, unfortunately, of conservative appointed
judges siding with Scientology when they come into court and say, you know, you can't do anything
about this. This is our religious beliefs. This is our religious practice. You can't even second
guess it. I'm talking about in these civil cases that have been ongoing. But it's a reflection
of the mindset of agencies, both governmental and judicial, with respect to treading on the rights
of any organization that can claim itself to be a religion. It's funny, Derek, you know,
I mentioned it in my book, but I was watching last night the Netflix, the new Netflix doc
about Waco. Waco had an enormous impact on the United States government. And that whole thing,
Waco, all went down in the first half of 1993. The IRS granted Scientology religious
exemption in October of 1993. I can assure you that the powers that be in the US government
just decided we don't want to have anything to do with being accused of messing with any
organization that is a religious, quote, organization. And so that's sort of stuck,
and the court precedents that have been created over the years have sort of stuck. And
there's a lot of inertia to overcome to get anybody to act on something like this.
In the world of the IRS, Scientology is peanuts. It's little. It's not that important. It's not
on that many people's radar. They're not getting New York Times articles criticizing them about
their failure to revoke the tax exempt status of Scientology. They should, but they're not.
And the other avenue that brings pressure to bear on the IRS is political. And
that's a long arc to reach the point where influential politicians will take the position
that the IRS need to do something about a situation like Scientology. It will happen eventually.
You know, we saw this starting in the mayoral race in Los Angeles, where Rick Caruso and
Karen Bass were basically in a mud-slinging competition to see who could dump on Scientology
the worst. And that's the first time that's ever happened. For a long, long time, politicians
have been sort of fearful of taking on Scientology. I think that that's, that is changing. And when
a federal politician or more than one decide that, okay, this is a, this is something that is,
I can be on the right side of, this is a vote getter for me. This is something that I can
stand up and say, look what I did. I got rid of Scientology's tax exempt status. And they think
that that will be beneficial to them. Then you'll see, you know, members of the House Ways and Means
Committee demanding the IRS do something to review the exempt status of Scientology.
I believe that will happen. I believe that sort of every day and every week and every month and
every year it gets closer, not further away, because I believe that more and more people are
becoming aware that this isn't just an issue of how many dollars could be recovered to the U.S.
Treasury. This is an issue of how do we stop the ongoing abuses that have now become apparent,
that are being carried out in the name of religion right under our damn noses?
This is such a good point, Mike. I mean, look at the high control group like Scient, or look at
Jehovah's Witnesses, look at other groups. And there are practices in, I believe it's disconnection,
if I'm not mistaken. But the specific thing is you disconnect from SPs. You just came up with a
thing, I think it was you. One of you big ex-Scientologists talked about SPTV. You're like wearing
it like a badge of honor at this point because this religion is literally able to perpetrate and
continue to perpetrate these harms to people within its own cult. And you know, I asked this
of Karen Delacariere the other day. We interviewed and I said, Karen, what the hell is going on
where Scientology will treat and put a certain kind of Scientology in front of celebrities like
Tom Cruise and John Travolta. But the people who run the operation like you did, I mean,
you were their spokesperson and the face of Scientology for like 20 years. Why do they
abuse people like you who like you would imagine would, could potentially turn on them and you
have and look at what's happened. You're a sleeping giant. I mean, I know for a fact they're
swallowing their hearts racing when they see you end up on TV or these big channels. So I'm
saying a lot of things here to kind of make the point that, you know, why do they treat these
celebrities? Good, I asked her, but they abuse people like you. They abuse people like, what's
the gentleman's name who actually did the counseling with Tom Cruise, but he blew
Mark Hedley. What's going on? Oh, was it Mark Hedley? I thought it was
Oh, there's another one, Bruce Hines. I mean, there's a bunch of guys who have been involved
one way or another with Tom Cruise, but Mark Hedley was the one who was audited by Tom Cruise.
Okay, I was thinking of the auditor of Tom Cruise that blew
the sexual secrets and wrote about him and all that kind of stuff.
Yes, yes. Why do they abuse all of you? And is it a money thing? Is it a cloud thing? Did
Elron Hubbard write within his kind of his creeds to say, look, we need these guys because they're
so influential, but the people who keep the operation going like you and others,
F these guys, let's treat them like crap. No, this is the reflection of the sociopathic
personality of David Mascavitch. Hubbard certainly abused and mistreated his,
like those who were close around him, ultimately, like I said, he abandoned his wife, even though
she fell on her sword for him. He then went, okay, I'm not having anything to do with you anymore.
But David Mascavitch
clawed his way to the top of Scientology and became the successor to Elron Hubbard,
not because Hubbard said he should be, but because he was ruthless enough to
eradicate anybody who was a threat or a rival to his assumption of that power. And he,
you know, I often have referred people to this wonderful book by Martha Stout from Harvard called
The Sociopath Next Door, which sort of changed my life when I read it after I left, because I
realized that David Mascavitch falls into this personality characteristic pattern that many
other people have also displayed. And, you know, I always thought, oh, I just happened to run into
the evil unicorn that happens to be on planet Earth. And, you know, nobody else has ever experienced
anything like this. But that's not true. And sociopathic personalities
have absolutely no conscience or compassion for anybody around them. And that is David Mascavitch.
And I've been reading this book recently, Derek, about the history of brainwashing. And
one of the chapters is about Stalin and how Stalin rose to power and how he maintained his
power position. And the similarities between, I mean, David Mascavitch, don't get me wrong,
David Mascavitch is not walking up to people and shooting them in the head in front of, you know,
the rest of his inner core or sending them to Siberia to ultimately die. But what Stalin did,
and what many, many dictators do, is they keep everybody around them off balance. Nobody knows
whether they're in favor or out of favor. It's very difficult to form a cabal of conspirators to
overcome a despot if nobody is sure whether they're going to be around tomorrow or going to be in
favor tomorrow or not. And this is pretty much the world of David Mascavitch. You never know whether
you're good, you're bad. You may be punched in the face today and stood up in front of everybody
and lauded for what a wonderful guy you are tomorrow and then kicked in the nuts the day after.
And that abuse is also reflective of what is important to Mascavitch.
What's important to Mascavitch, despite what a lot of people say, oh, well, he's just in it.
He wants the money, he's stashing away money. No, he's not. He's not stashing away money.
He's too smart to do that. He doesn't need to stash away personal money and, you know, bank
accounts in Liberia or something, because that would be a huge liability for him with the IRS.
Hey, he can snap his fingers like this and have anything he wants all at the direction or cost
of Scientology's organization. What drives David Mascavitch is power. Power is defined by someone
like him as the ability to get another person to do something that you want them to do,
whether it's useful or not useful, even when it is against their best interests or
their inherent nature. So, if Mascavitch can abuse people and, you know, those in his direct
environment and they don't fight back, they don't run away, they don't do what normal people in
normal circumstances would do in response, that is an exercise of power. It's an exercise of
my authority over you. Eventually, that's what drove me away. That's what drove me to escape.
But there are a lot of people who have not. A lot. There is a whole cadre of former Scientology
executives who have become, you know, like, hidden, forgotten people, beaten down jellyfish
hulks of their former selves who are still around and still hang on to the hope that somehow they
may end up in the good books of David Mascavitch. And I don't think that some of those people are
ever going to leave. I don't know what makes it that someone finally decides, okay, I've had enough.
I mean, I try to describe that for myself in my book. I think that what triggers people is
different for every person and there's no simple answer to it. But I do know that when you can
abuse people and they have no ability to fight back and don't fight back, that brings great
satisfaction to a sociopath. And that's David Mascavitch. Oh, man, your book is fantastic in
discussing that. You really spell that out so clear. And who's the guy before you blew? And
for those who don't know, I know it sounds funny using the term, those who really be apostasized
if you're within Christianity or something, left the cult of Scientology. Who's the guy
that you had arguments with or it was the there was a guy who was like a spokesperson on behalf
of Scientology who blew and he was like a well-spoken like he kind of was in the news a lot on behalf
of Scientology. But he's no longer around anymore. Younger guy, black slick, slick hair. Tommy Davis.
What happened to this guy? I mean, I know he's around, but he does not talk. And how much dirt
do you think this guy has that you may not have? I don't think he has a lot of dirt that I may not
have. He probably has more dirt on Tom Cruise than on David Mascavitch because he was also sort of the
go between between Mascavitch and Tom Cruise for some time. What happened to him? He basically left
the C organization, which is the people that signed the billion year contracts. That's why my
book's called A Billion Years. I was a C organization member, dedicated my eternity to
achieving the aims of Scientology. And Tommy was also everybody in the senior echelons of
Scientology is a C organization member who has signed a billion year contract with Scientology.
But Tommy left. And Tommy is sort of a he's a he's a he's a kind of a unique
kind of guy because his mother is Anne Archer, who is, you know, one of the few remaining
Scientology celebrities that still is willing to speak on behalf of Scientology. And his father is
a huge wealthy real estate developer in California. I'm actually not sure if his father's still alive.
Tommy left with his then wife, Jessica, who was the daughter of one of the big Scientology
donating families, the Feshbex. She was the daughter of one of the three Feshbex brothers.
Um, they were basically allowed, unlike many other people, to go off and live their new life. And
they had twins together and live with her mother in Austin or near her mother in Austin. And Tommy
stayed loyal to Miscavige and to Scientology. Don't know why. Can't imagine why other than
he didn't want his mother disconnecting from him or his half brother disconnecting from him.
I don't know. He didn't want, you know, to be outcast from the Feshbex family. Who knows why,
but Tommy's sort of a snake and always has been a kind of a kid who grew up with a silver spoon in
his mouth and never really had to do anything too significant in life other than talk. And
he then decided that he was abandoning Jessica and his daughters and went off and married some
woman in Egypt and lives now apparently in Cairo. Partly because, I believe, he got himself
involved with this guy, Tom Barak. Tom Barak was recently tried in New York as being a part of a
scam as a foreign of, he's a big Republican guy who was a part of the, the inauguration committee
for Trump. And Tommy was his right hand man and was involved in all of that and the lawsuit was
going on. And, you know, Tommy features fairly prominently in a book by someone who is published
by the same publisher as my book, Stephanie Winston-Walkoff, about his scams and seeking to shift
the blame for the enormous financial irregularities that happened in the Trump inauguration.
Anyway, that's all like a lot of roundy-round, but Tommy Davis is apparently off living in Cairo.
A family member of his reached out to me recently and said, did you know this about Tommy and that
about Tommy? And I'm not at liberty to disclose all of that information, but I am able to say that
he seems to be in hiding and doesn't want to be easily found and is in a country where it would
be awfully tough to extradite him if anybody wanted to try. This whole notion you mentioned about
him knowing stuff about Tom Cruise. What, you know, I asked this question to Karen the other day
about this and I said, what do you think Tom Cruise knows? And let me paint a little bit of a picture
here as to why I asked it in an interesting way. I've never heard anyone ask it this way.
You knew a lot of shit on Scientology during your being there, during being faithful. You are
a faithful servant to L. Ron Hubbard. Even in spite of all of your abuses from the sociopath,
David Miscavige, you still stay true to the cult. I'm sure you had moments of where you
didn't know what to do. Cognitive dissonance was kicking your ass the whole nine. But the question
I have is, when you were in, you know how much you knew. In fact, now you're disclosing that.
What do you think Tom Cruise knows about the crazy stuff within Scientology? Do you think he
knows some stuff that if he ever blew, he would be like, oh my gosh, we even you might be shocked to
find out information that he knows? I'm not sure if I'd be shocked, but I think that he certainly
is a nuclear bomb, waiting to drop out of the, you know, the door, bomb bay doors of the bottom
of the plane. And they are doing, and David Miscavige in particular, is doing everything
he feels is necessary to ensure that Tom is always happy and never wants to get out.
Because the difference between Tom Cruise and anybody else is the size of the audience that
he could generate. If Tom Cruise walked out of Scientology and said, oh my god, world,
you got to know this is what's going on. David Miscavige is beating people. People are being
locked up, disconnection. I wasn't allowed to speak to Suri because she's declared an SP.
The entire world would cover that. Like, you know, we had our aftermath show, we've done a podcast,
I'm doing YouTube, I've written a book. But the amount of people that I reach with my message,
or Leah reaches with her message, is tiny compared to one statement. If Tom Cruise made one statement
negative about Scientology, it would be in every media in the entire world. And that is a scary
proposition. It's not how much he knows, it's that he knows anything, that he knows about what
happened to Shelley Miscavige because Dave told him, that he knows what happened to, you know,
that Scientology was dictating who he was allowed to hire for his household and finding the people
to appoint to his cook and nanny and everything else. That stuff would be very explosive. It's
not that explosive if I say it, but if Tom Cruise came out and said it, it would blow the lid off
Scientology. And several people have quite correctly said Tom Cruise could be the person
who could put an end to the abuses in Scientology, single-handedly.
This, you bring up Lisa, not Lisa McPherson, but Shelley Miscavige, we hear about this a lot as
well. But before we even get to that, John Travolta, what about him? What if he came out? I'm not
saying he could do the same damage Tom would. I imagine there may be even a jealousy issue there
because Tom is favored and he's not. But do you think he knows stuff like that?
Not to the extent that Tom Cruise does. John Travolta has never been, you know,
BFF with David Miscavige. So once Tom Cruise came on the scene, John Travolta became second fiddle
and has been second fiddle ever since. Miscavige doesn't look at John Travolta the same way
that he looks at Tom Cruise. He didn't parade John Travolta on stage and make a, you know,
this big presentation of this huge oversized, you know, Snoop Dogg medal to Tom Cruise that
he gave to Tom Cruise. Cruise has always been much more involved with David Miscavige and vice
versa. You know, David Miscavige was the best man at Tom Cruise's wedding to Nicole and who is
wedding to Katie. I mean, it's like they're, those two are very joined at the hip and consider
themselves sort of, you know, semi equals. They are the two big beings on planet Earth. That's
how they view themselves. They view themselves as being separate and different and above and better
than everybody else that is in this world. And so John Travolta could come out and say
various things about his life and how he's been treated in Scientology and what they've said about
his sexual orientation and why he has never been willing to just come out and be, you know, open
and frank about it. What happened with Kelly and, you know, did she get properly diagnosed soon
enough? What happened with his son? All of those things. The things about John's personal life
more are, I guess, the sort of scandalous things that could, he could come out with. But again,
you know, he's kind of old news. He is not going to hit the front page of People Magazine and the
New York Times and Rolling Stone and every media outlet and Fox News and MSNBC if he says something
about Scientology. Yes, it probably will get picked up and some media will cover it, but not like
Tom Cruise. Tom Cruise is still huge media fodder. He's top gun. John Travolta these days is, you
know, John Gotti. He's a TV, TV movie guy now. He's not the the headliner of, you know, a billion
dollar movie or a Mission Impossible franchise. He's a kind of a over the hill guy who used to be
a huge star and is no longer. And I will also say to you, Derek, as I've said many times, John Travolta
is a really nice man. He is just a nice guy and misguided a little cowardly. Yes, but he is a nice
guy, not like Tom Cruise. Tom Cruise is not a nice guy. Tom Cruise seems a little bit like
Miss Gavage in many ways, but a couple of funny things I want to just mention and maybe you can
you can chuckle with me here. You're probably used to, you probably have nothing to chuckle left.
That Mission Impossible theme song when he was talking about how if there was a car accident,
oh yeah, a person who can help them. I mean, that was nutty on another level because they don't
come up to me and do that. I don't do it to me, not to my face, you know, or anywhere in my vicinity.
But I'm so glad that video exists for people to see how insane the cult mindset is. So
couple questions and I want to start with Katie having to escape the marriage.
What is what the hell was going on with Tom Cruise and his marriage that she had to escape?
And like the divorce was just wild the way they went. This all went down. Do you have any inside
scoop? No, I was out by then. That happened after I left. But, you know, her dad's a lawyer and
obviously figured out how to orchestrate that in a way that was beneficial to her. You know,
she got out. She got custody of their daughter. More power to her. I don't know what else to say.
I don't have any inside look into that world. I was just curious to know if you think she
left because of Scientology or was it a comedy? Absolutely. Absolutely. I am sure that that's
why she left. But when I say that, what I mean is she left because
she couldn't take the way that Tom lives his life and treats the people around him,
which is because of Scientology. Let that one sink in, everybody.
I wanted to bring up the whole issue with Shelly Miss Scavige. Do we know anything new or is it
all the same? It's all the same. Do you think at this point she's just been so brainwashed
and just so abused with this cult that there's just probably no hope in ever discovering anything?
I never say that there is no hope. But I do think that she is and has been for a long time
completely committed to her obligations to fulfill her promises to Elrond Hubbard.
Look, Derek, Elrond Hubbard was effectively her father. She was raised by him from a very young age.
She was sent to the Apollo, the ship that Hubbard was on. Her parents were not there. Her parents
were never there. She became a messenger for Elrond Hubbard when she was like 12 or so and worked
for him directly for the formative years of her life. The corrosive ideas that are perpetrated
in Scientology about the obligations that one has to Hubbard and his teachings and keeping them
pure and this is the only hope for mankind and you can't portray man's only opportunity to
escape the endless pain and suffering and etc, etc, etc. When you live inside the bubble of Scientology
and particularly in the sea organization, those ideas are exceedingly difficult to get out of
your head and I talk about this a lot in my book about what it took to finally, you know,
the straw that broke the camel's back. Obviously, that has not happened to Shelley.
And so, I would say that there is always a hope but it's a slim one at this point.
She's a believer and so this leads me to your video you did this morning because you did a video
on all this real estate that supposedly the story goes that this is Elrond Hubbard cast off
his body suit and is going to come back at some point to dwell within these residences that are
in his name. How much of that is bullshit and how much of that is actual belief of David Miscavige
and because the question I have as a sociopath, I mean, we've already nailed this guy down.
We know he's insane in the way that he is all about himself and abusive.
Does this guy really believe this shit? And do you think that these residents that are supposed
to occupy Elrond Hubbard, this guy actually is in a believer in that whole idea that this is
it's hard for me to know what he's doing to just keep his power or is it kind of fused?
Do you think his sociopathic lifestyle and his abuse of power is combined with his actual beliefs
of Elrond Hubbard? Yes. I don't think that he would have bothered investing tens or hundreds of
millions of dollars in building mansions and homes for Elrond Hubbard after he was dead if he
didn't believe that he might be coming back. If you don't believe that, why go through the effort?
Why spend the money? There's no need to be building houses if you don't think he's really
coming back. There's sort of a dichotomy in this in that Scientologists, the rank and file Scientologists
were never told that Hubbard is coming back. They were basically given the story. He has discarded
his body that was his identity for 74 years and has moved on to continue his research
into the higher states of being unencumbered by a physical body because the physical body
was becoming and had become an encumbrance to his ability to do this research. He is off target
two. Whatever target two is, it's sort of the euphemistic term that Scientologists use that
sort of parrots Hubbard saying, well, planet Earth is target one. I'll be moving on to target two.
Target two is apparently saving the entire universe and Scientologists, rank and file
Scientologists were told this story that he had gone off to target two. The upper echelons of
Scientology C organization people have a very or had a very different idea. The motto of the C
organization is we come back and that's why you sign a billion year contract because it's not just
for one lifetime. You are committed for eternity and Hubbard was the ultimate Seorg member. Hubbard
when earlier Seorg members had passed on had issued a thing saying they have 21 years to report
back for duty. They'll be expected back and we'll welcome them when they return. And so
the idea that Hubbard was taking a break and going to come back in a new body to reassume
his role as founder and source and leader of Scientology was very, very real. I believe that
there are a lot of people in the upper echelons of Scientology C organization who absolutely
100% believe that not just David Miscavige. David Miscavige believed that that was the case
and was somewhat panicked about what did he have to do to make sure that if Hubbard did come back
that he would be in his good graces. And I believe that building all those homes was that sort of
mindset. There are a lot of people who have not nice things to say about David Miscavige who
don't say them because it's unsafe to say them now but have secretly Hubbard this idea and you
know it was expressed by a couple of them by accident. Well, when the old man, which is what
Siog member is called Hubbard, when the old man comes back everything's going to get straight
now and Dave will meet his just rewards. And I honestly believe that Shelley probably still believes
that. You know this is something I don't know if people ask you this all the time but how many
how many celebrities have you encountered when you were in Scientology? I mean I've heard you
mentioned you've met Michael Jackson. I think you was more in the Jehovah's Witnesses growing up.
But was there like an active campaign to make him a Scientologist and like are there any other
celebrities that you encountered that weren't Scientologists that maybe you were trying to
make them or that were already Scientologists that you had to interact with on a daily or often?
Wow there's tons of them. I mean Michael Jackson came about because he married Lisa Marie and I was
sort of Lisa Marie's go-to person so I ended up being the person with Lisa Marie to give him a
tour of the El Ron Hubbard life exhibition in the Hollywood Guarantee building on Hollywood Boulevard
to try and get him to understand that perhaps there was something here that he could you know
benefit from which is sort of the first step of getting someone into Scientology. Obviously that
didn't work and but that was that was an effort. I mean Ron Howard and Brian Grazer when they were
producing Fire and Away I when met with Brian Grazer Ron Howard was brought to the international
headquarters and wind and dine by Muscavige and I think Tom you know I I met various people at
premieres of cruise movies because for a while I would go to them along with Dave and Shelley and
you know but Tom Cruise tried to you know I talk about this in my book he he tried to recruit
Steven Spielberg but then Scientology couldn't resist going after a psychiatrist who was working
with their children and that blew things up big time and so Steven Spielberg never became a Scientologist.
There are plenty of them and you know I think I've met every person who identifies as a quote
Scientology celebrity from Kirstie to to Jenna Elfman to Chick Korea to you know
that but Elizabeth Moss but remember there's no new celebrity Scientologists
that there aren't anybody that that has come forward and said oh I'm now like a big star or
I'm a big singer or I'm a big artist or I'm a big anything and I credit this to Scientology
who hasn't been saying it forever the only one that really has has come to the fore in the last
five years is Lizzie Moss but she was raised a Scientologist nobody else has appeared on the
scene because they're unable to recruit celebrities now like they used to be able to.
Did you ever meet Danny Masterson or ever engage with him and his family?
No Danny Masterson was a small fry back when I was around I didn't even know if he'd ever
had any sort of major role by the at that point maybe maybe the 70s shows but no he was not
anybody that I interacted with. Into this rape case what predictions from you? What are your thoughts?
Oh I think he's going to be convicted. Wow.
Interesting okay okay you write in your book there's a chapter where you say Lisa McPherson
changes everything. Now some people might go Lisa who but why did she change the game for Scientology?
Because she was someone who died in the care of Scientology and should never have been in the
care of Scientology. It's a long story that I'm not really going to go into but the end result of
it was that there was a criminal prosecution of Scientology in Tampa Clearwater Florida
for her death or over her death and a civil lawsuit that was filed and part of
what was so significant about it was that the fact that she was being quote cared for at the
Fort Harrison hotel the Scientology hotel in Clearwater had a lot to do with the fact that
David Miscavige was directly and personally involved in dealing with Lisa McPherson but that
like Elron Hubbard's involvement in the activities of the Guardian's office was a huge secret and
not talked about by anyone and a bunch of people took the fall for it and that case then resulted in
not resulted in but concurrent civil case David Miscavige was named as a defendant in that case
and ordered to appear in that case he couldn't manage to wiggle his way out of it and he went
absolutely Borneo lunatic over the top crazy after that point and I mark it as one of the
very clear
places watershed moments where the descent of David Miscavige into complete sociopathic lunacy
could be could be noted and that's why I said that it had such a huge impact
and shamelessly plugging your book I have to admit you're right I'm glad you don't go into all the
details here because they really need to get the book on audible they need to go on Amazon get a
copy you will be shocked at all the information that's in here and I love the style in which you
wrote this book so let's get this book out there and make sure that you go and check it out Mike
I've got maybe a couple more questions for you pertaining to this whole or deal what are you
currently looking at I mean you talk about this stuff all the time I'm fairly confident when you
have to repeat yourself about certain things some things aren't as exciting as others because you've
kind of said it a million times but is there anything new right now that we're embarking from
the SP perspective right we're SPTV what's new well SPTV isn't is a thing it's a loose term now for
the YouTube people who are exposing the abuses of Scientology Aaron Smith Levin me
Mark and Claire Headley and there will probably be others who who join this this sort of campaign
we are doing routine exposays on what really goes on in Scientology and the beauty of YouTube is
as long as you can and keep within the kooky algorithms that they have that may demonetize you
or get your video kicked there isn't really any censorship and there's no way for Scientology
to influence advertisers or you know scare people because there isn't anybody to scare
then they can't go after producers they can't go after the corporate headquarters it would be a
complete waste of time when it comes to YouTube but we are making information available easily
for a lot of people and it will be there forever and it you know there's a lot of people who may
not be looking at those YouTube channel shows right now but who knows three months from now
they may want to go back and find this information about the homes of Elron Hubbard or what did the
Department of Justice say or what's what's Scientology and Hubbard's view of law enforcement
or any of the other things that are contained in these videos I think that the other thing that is
that is really going to be new news is this trial again of Danny Masterson which is starting up in
a couple of weeks if the rulings from the judge yesterday are any indication I think this trial
is going to go quite differently than the first one and I believe that based on what I know
he is going to be rightfully convicted of the charges that or the crimes that he is charged
with and that is going to be a massive massive problem for Scientology
if someone was considering joining Scientology what would be your advice
don't you know I talked to my wife last night about that and I said she said that's a good
question to ask and I said he's gonna have a one word answer and literally you just my prediction
was true I'm fine Derek you can send me the five dollars for that later you can go back to your
wife now and say here is my I told you so card it's very very few times in history where I'm
actually I get something right in you know so this is pretty cool I know the feeling man
Mike this is something personal I'm a recovering addict but I wear it as a badge kind of like
you do with SP the reason is I think if we can be open and honest and we are transparent people
who are suffering with addiction will know that it's not that they're moral shortcoming people
oftentimes there's psychological environmental whatever there's all sorts of factors that play
a role into people's addictions but I beat it and I overcame it over seven years ago heroin
addiction we went to narcotics anonymous and alcoholics anonymous well there's a program
called Narcanon and it seems to be run by Scientology and Elron Hubbard I guess initiated it
is this a front to recruit and is it working what are your thoughts of Narcanon?
Yes it is Elron Hubbard drug rehabilitation technology it uses exactly the same
programs and processes and theories as are used within Scientology even though it claims to be
secular and isn't really religious that's just so that it can sort of skirt around the problem
government funding whatever I'm getting off into it Narcanon is
is yes it is a recruitment avenue for Scientology but it's not very successful and Narcanon itself
had you know for a while there it was sort of growing and new Narcanon centers were opening
and then they had a bunch of very serious incidents occur including deaths and they were sued
and had to settle a bunch and now it's all dwindled down and they they are doing sort of
celebrity drug rehabilitation now and that didn't work out too well for Marie Lisa Marie Presley
yeah exactly but it's it Narcanon is not it is pretty much not a thing anymore
hmm so if you could change anything if you could go back and change anything
or or do something differently what would you do?
instead of deciding to join the SEO I would have gone to university and last question
and that is what kind of services do you feel should be provided and this is my wife's question
by the way so I'm getting brownie points on top of winning because you helped me with that
with that single word answer what kind of services do you feel should be provided to those
leaving Scientology that can assist in the transition into the real world wow that's a
great question one they need to be able to connect to people who can understand their experiences
I think that this is absolutely the single most important thing for someone leaving an
organization like Scientology or JWs or Nexium or whatever is to be able to connect with other
people who understand and I mean in the case of Scientology understand how they even speak
like when you walk out of Scientology you've been in it for a long time you talk gobbledygook
another language you don't even know how to express yourself but if you sit down on another
Scientologist they'll understand everything that you say so that's number one number two is the
ability to connect up with people who can provide assistance whether that be
psychological counseling or or psychiatric counseling or any form of counseling
help them get a job help you get a place to live help them reconnect with old family members
that those those things are are really really really important you know a lot of people when
they walk out of the C organization they not only don't have any money because they haven't been paid
anything forever they don't even have a driver's license or a bank account or a credit card
or they don't have a resume they don't have any of that stuff so I'm sort of listing out all of
these things and this is what the Aftermath Foundation has set out to make available to
former Scientologists this is the organization that Mark and Claire Headley, Aaron Smith Levin,
me and my wife and Ray Jeffery the lawyer who represented Debbie Cook and various other people
put together to do just those things and we have helped an enormous number of people we
have a huge number of volunteers who offer their services I'll go pick someone up at the airport
they need a place to stay I'll help them find a job or just give us money to be able to buy
whatever we need for these people I'm glad you ended on that and I thank your wife for that question
because it gives me an opportunity to plug the Aftermath Foundation which is something that's
very important in my view. I think it is too and and for those who also want to help Mike
in his endeavors you can get the book number one so you're getting something right obviously
there's this isn't a free handout you're gonna actually see the rewards of of that fruit if you
will um he also just started a YouTube channel himself so if you've ever wanted to have direct
access to Mike and not wait for your favorite podcasters to interview him you can do that as well
but go directly to the source in the description subscribe to his YouTube channel get ready because
he does live streams now you can go hang out super chat your questions to him would you help Mike
out you're helping his family out you're helping the Aftermath Foundation and you're able to grow
this community that he's describing that we need for people who are coming out of these traumatic
strong cults and form a big bubble of love and welcoming them and this is what I love about
Mike and what he's doing what we're trying to do at MythFusion we may not have been Scientologists
we may not have been Jehovah's Witnesses I came out of a fundamentalist version of Christianity
but I think we all share something in common and I hope that we keep growing this community so
Mike I can't tell you how much I appreciate you thank you for giving us your time here at MythFusion
any final words of encouragement from you would be great well I my final words of encouragement
Derek uh or what I said um again I'm going to go back to my book look it is never too late to
change the circumstances of your life I escaped Scientology when I was 52 years old I left behind
every family member I had ever known wife children mother brothers sisters knew that they would never
be a part of my life again until I dismantled the organization I had no money I had nowhere to go
I had nothing I had no resume you know a resume of being the international spokesperson for
Scientology for 20 years doesn't get you many jobs outside of Scientology but I'm here I have
a new family I have a very happy life you can change the circumstances in your life no matter
what they are a bad relationship a bad job involved in a cult it doesn't matter it's possible to change
and it is important for everybody to understand that that uh that message is I think the most
important message that I can deliver about anything it's never too late to change your the circumstances
of your life
