Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Today, I have Natalia Reagan,
who actually is going to take us into evolution, who knows where this conversation might go. And
just to introduce her to you here at MythVision, Natalia Reagan is an anthropologist, primatologist,
comedian, host, producer, podcaster, professor, writer, frequent animal expert, and monkey chasing
weirdo. Those are her words. Her training was in a four field approach to anthropology,
and she often examines topics through a biocultural lens. Natalia was a comedy writer and correspondent
on Neil deGrasse Tyson's StarTalk, regular host of the StarTalk All Stars podcast,
a science correspondent on Thrillist Daily Hit, a science expert on histories unexplained,
and much, much more. This was the abbreviated bio. Welcome to MythVision.
Thank you so much for having me, Derek. I'm very excited. And I'm so sorry to make you read all
of that. No, no, no, no, no. I'm glad that we're introducing you to the audience. I think that
we should roll the red carpet out for you. You talk about a lot of stuff. Some of that stuff gets
almost feel like blacklisted or even they don't want to hear. They don't want you to put it on
their programs, whether it be Instagram, they're not wanting to monetize or whatever.
You know how these places can be. Yeah, it's super spicy. And I'm hoping I've been encouraging her
to start up something where she's able to do that and people can sign up and go and check it out
themselves. So you know a little bit about evolution, I imagine. I know a fair share.
I used to teach biological anthropology at a few different institutions in New York,
Kentucky, and here in Los Angeles. So you know a little bit.
And I'm actually going to be going to Galapagos in February where Charles Darwin
took that voyage on the Beagle many, many moons ago. And that's when he discovered or figured
out evolution by natural selection and then eventually wrote on the origin of species and
then eventually published it in 1859. So shout out to Darwin for that.
Yeah. You know, I'm just going to give you a little bit of tidbit here because you may not
know this and our audience does, I'm sure, is that I thought evolution was BS. I thought it
was possibly Satan's plan to try and trick people to not believe the gospel. And it was one of those
things as I was starting to exit Christianity from my own perspective that I started taking science
serious from experts in their field, their respective fields. And I even interviewed
other. I believe she's working on becoming a primatologist. Gutsick Gibbon, Erica.
She's great. Yeah, I asked her. I was like, listen, if we evolved from monkeys, then how come
there's monkeys? And she tackled it. Common question. How would you answer that question?
I would say, well, we don't come from monkeys. We have a common ancestor with monkeys as we do
with apes as we do with a lot of different animals out there. There's a common ancestor and they go
on their own evolutionary trajectory and we go on ours. So in the case of monkeys, depending on
we're talking about those in the old world, Africa and Asia or those in the new world, there'd be
a different time and line, you know, 40 million years, 20 million years. Let's just give an example
for our closest genetic relatives, chimpanzees and bonobos. Those are our closest great ape
relatives and we share a common ancestor with them roughly six million years ago. So that's
why they still exist, right? We've got, think of them as like cousins, right? So if we share,
you know, if you and your cousin have grandparents, then why do you still have cousins? I mean,
there are grandparents. So we have these grandparents with chimpanzees and bonobos and we went on our
evolutionary trajectory and they went on theirs. And in fact, the ancestors of chimpanzees and
bonobos actually split off two million years ago at the formation of the Congo River system.
And then chimps were on one side, bonobos on the other, and they have also very different
social structures and behaviors because the environment shapes a lot of who we are. And so,
but that's an example of, you know, again, we don't come from monkeys and apes. We share a common
ancestor. This is interesting. I love learning about our past. I do it through the literature,
though, often, and you're doing it through a completely different avenue. And if the viewer,
let's say, is open-minded to learning, but they've never really paid attention in science class and
school, or they may be curious to hear how someone might explain that we know we evolved,
where would you personally start? Because I know that anyone can really start wherever they are.
You know, if it's a geneticist, they might start dealing with gene codes or, you know,
going into a different avenue. But your specialty, in what way would you say we know we evolved?
Okay, well, there's two very excellent examples of evolution. One that's so in our face, COVID.
COVID is a great example because we're watching a virus evolve very quickly. You know, we've seen
COVID go through many strains, Delta, Omicron, so on and so forth. And we're seeing it kind of outrun
our desire to vaccinate against it, right? Another great example are things like antibiotic-
resistant bacteria, gonorrhea. Hate to say it, but the clap, the clap, not the applause you're
looking for, but the applause you might get if you don't use protection. And right now we have
antibiotic-resistant gonorrhea that has actually evolved in multiple ways to
outrun antibiotics. And that is a way that we can see right now, in present time,
evolution in action. We see it in hybrids. Like, for instance, we have a lot of climate change.
I don't know, maybe your viewers are not hip or quote-unquote believe climate change, but we have,
we do have climate change that has been anthropogenic. Basically, humans are causing
the climate change through our greenhouse emissions. But we're seeing a lot of species
that are now, instead of having access to their own species, they're having to mate with other
species that are closely related. And so we're seeing hybridization. And that is an example
of creating, seeing new species come into play. And so we're seeing that happen in real time,
right in front of us. And so those are great examples, I think, for folks that are like,
okay, but I want to see something right this second. Because the fossil record, we can only
see so much. And soft tissue doesn't preserve. So we do have ancient DNA, so we can understand
that like, for instance, for a long time, there were two different camps in the biologically
anthropology world that thought humans and Neanderthals would never have mated. We knew that they
lived alongside each other because we had fossil evidence of these two different species living
in Europe in the Middle East at the same time. But there were two camps, one that thought we would
never, ever, ever, ever get down with those chinless freaks because spoiler alert,
humans are the only species with a chin. So keep your chin up, you got one.
But then there were those that were like, are you kidding? Humans will have sex with anything.
In fact, I went to a talk years ago that was one of the best talks I've ever been to.
Oh, God, I forget his full name. But he went through all the different animate and inanimate
objects humans have tried to have sex with. And it was hilarious. But so the point was,
like, you know, it was like a mailbox, an apple pie, a sheep, you know what I mean? It was just
this whole list of things that humans have been caught trying to copulate with. So why wouldn't
we copulate with something or someone because Neanderthals were human that looked almost identical
to us, you know, minus, well, the lack of chin. So, and now with ancient DNA, we know that we
most definitely did get down with those chinless freaks, because we do have some people in, you
know, modern day humans that have Neanderthal in their genome. We also know that we got down with
Denisovans, another Pleistocene species in the genus Homo, and some other ghost lineages,
which is really fascinating. We have DNA that we don't have skeletal remains for, but we have this
interesting lineate, you know, ghost DNA that's in some genome, genomes that are proof that humans
were also getting down with other species in the genus Homo during the Pleistocene. So it was
a very freaky-deaky time. That's actually, if I were to be able to get a time machine, I'd want to
go back to the Pleistocene and kind of, you know, just be a fly on the wall, just getting down with
you, you know. It's interesting you bring up Neanderthal. I saw some podcast. It was not too long
ago on why we, I guess you'd say, outlived the Neanderthal. And the gentleman, I cannot remember
his name, was pretty much trying to make the case that Neanderthals, unlike us, did not form larger
than like 50 people's social groups, because they didn't have a common myth or story that they
potentially language may have played a role in that development of being able to cohes,
have a cohesive group larger than 50. And we see this how they form armies and empires and,
you know, over time to more modern periods, or at least since writing came on the scene,
we know about kingdoms and large groups of Homo sapiens that are together.
And I'm wondering what your thoughts are on how they went extinct and what happened. Did we
kill them off? Well, there's a lot of different theories. And again, we can't really know for
sure at this point. And we might not ever know. And that's kind of, and there could have been
multiple factors that played a role, right? It's not necessarily like, Oh, it was only one thing.
One of the really interesting ideas is that dog domestication by humans could have helped us in
terms of out competing with Neanderthals because having, you know, man's best friend,
which would have been very closely relate, well, you know, basically a domesticated wolf, you
know, we're not talking, I have a pug, we're not talking a pug, we're talking more like a wolf dog.
Having a wolf dog help you hunt or help protect you against other predators can be really helpful.
Dr. Pat Shipman, who is a biological anthropologist wrote a book about this. Also,
just the idea of, I mean, and communication and language is a great point. But again,
we don't have any evidence that they did or did not speak. There's a wonderful video that if your
viewers want to watch, if you Google BBC Neanderthal talking, I love showing this in my anthropology
classes because it supposes what would a Neanderthal sound like? Because speech is closely related to
the hyoid bone and the shape of the hyoid bone would directly affect how your voice would sound.
And this particular video supposes that like Neanderthals would have kind of a higher or more
nasally voice, but they would have, they would have, they're barrel-chested. They have these big
barrel chests, so they probably would have been really loud. So it's one of the funniest videos
because it's, you can tell, and it's, you know, it's BBC, so it's British, you know, and the
actor, as you can tell, he's like a real, probably real Shakespearean actor. And he's like, one,
two, three, you know, it's the funniest thing I've ever seen. I can't, I'm sorry to have butchered
it because seriously Google it, it's good. But they, you know, sort of, what would they sound like
if they did speak? As far as how sophisticated there are, there are, again, just like how
I mentioned, they were two camps of those who thought they, we definitely got down with them and
those that were like, they're no way. There are those that believe that they were more sophisticated
than previously given credit for, whether it's having actual art on the walls, there are some
caves that are associated with Neanderthal occupation that have these sort of hands
on the wall done with red ochre. I believe it's red ochre. And I made a joke years ago that they're
like hand turkeys, they're just a bunch of hands on the wall. But that's an example of potential
symbolic art. There's also one site in Krapena Cave where they found their eagle talons and they
think it was part of a necklace. So not only, I joke, not only were they making jewelry, they
were making like the most metal jewelry out there like eagle talons. So there are examples of them
being a bit more sophisticated. There are evidence of burials, which is a sign that they, you know,
not only, we know that they cared for their sick and injured because, oh, this was one of my
favorite stats. They found that at one site, the injuries to Neanderthals were consistent
with rodeo clowns. So they were probably attacking or trying to take down big megafauna,
you know, think maybe a woolly rhino, a woolly mammoth, but they were probably getting tossed
around and getting their butts handed to them, right? And those individuals healed, right? And
so one of the things that we can look at in the fossil record is that when we see an individual
that broke a bone that would maybe had limited its ability to walk or just take care of itself,
and they survived past that, that means somebody cared for that individual, if not the whole group,
right? And so that's a sign that they were also taking care of their sick and injured,
but they also buried them with grave goods. So that's a sign that also they potentially,
we don't want to surmise that they were believing in an afterlife, you know, that's a big leap
again, but they were at least sending their dead off with a little something. But as far as like
state level or, you know, bigger groups, the good news and bad news with bigger groups is
bigger groups can mean disease transmission, as we know, right? So if you have a disease that
shows up in a smaller group, it can burn through real quickly and then just kind of peter out,
right? But when you have a really big group, it has a chance to not burn out. It evolves,
it will, you know, stick around for a while. That's why the plague was so absolutely devastating.
I think it killed 20% of European population at one point, you know. So yeah, there are upsides
and downsides to having a state level society, but I think it's probably a combination of maybe
being outcompeted when it comes to Neanderthals, not lasting as long as homo sapiens.
Whether it's, you know, dog domestication or just a better way of hunting, better tool industry,
because we also look at tool industries. When we look at our ancestors, there's the
Australian, and then there's also the Mustarian tools, the Chateauparion, probably butchering.
I'm not an archaeologist, so forgive me, archaeologists that are like, ha ha, butchered that
word, but there's different. Yeah, that are a bit more sophisticated that might have helped them,
helped humans survive into future generations. But there are some also benefits to add mixing with
Neanderthals, because we also absorbed their offspring, like a Neanderthal and an anatomically
modern human that, you know, got down. Their offspring would have absorbed some of those
Neanderthal traits, because remember Neanderthals had been living in Europe in colder regions
for much longer time than their anatomically modern human relatives, right? They came out of
Africa into Europe and were like, oh, wow, we forgot to bring a coat. This is cold, you know?
So there are, you know, traits that would have maybe helped them, you know, out do well in the
cold weather. Some traits that I, well, I forget the particular amount of, this is not my, I'm
waiting into, into not my specialty territory. We're not judging you. No, no, no, but I, you know,
I'm very, I always want to get everything absolutely right, but there wasn't a particular allele that
they, I think, inherited from Neanderthals that helps with, in terms of boosting immunity.
So again, there's, and this is why it's hilarious. Well, when I say hilarious, I mean,
more tragically, so when we talk about eugenics or we talk about, you know, white supremacy in
Nazi Germany, it's a whole idea of wanting this like pure race. It's like, hello, hybrid vigor,
you know what I mean? So I do know what you mean. Yeah, there's no, there's nothing good
about this, this pure, no, no, no, no. First of all, there's no such thing as that. But in fact,
when a species begins, there's this thing called Founder's Effect, and there's more genetic diversity
in the beginning of a species. And then as it spreads out over time and space, the diversity
dwindles down in our own species. There's no, we're humans are at the core of it across the
globe. We're 99.9% genetically identical. So this idea of like, oh, races are biologically
different. No, they're not. That is such a good myth to debunk, especially with the existing
ideologies that are around all the time. Yeah, this is good. Yeah, there's no biological basis to
racial classification, you know, the, you know, especially when we look at the different things
we looked at in the past to determine, you know, racial disparity, like skin color is a great
example. And within somebody's, how they identify racially, the skin color can absolutely span the
gamut, right? And there's people that might identify as, you know, black or in Korean and be
almost identical in color, right? You know, because there's a gradient. And so it's not
necessarily the best proxy for determining things like race. It's the easiest, right? Because it's
what you're looking at it. But at the same time, it's not, it's, it's not always the most accurate.
So again, but in biologically, there, you know, it is a social construct that doesn't mean it's
not real. It's real in terms of a social construct. But that's the thing that is frustrating that
when people there, actually, I would highly recommend there's a great TED talk by Dorothy
Roberts, who talks about race-based medicine and how dangerous it is when doctors try to, and
sometimes, you know, there are reasons for looking at race when it comes to one's, you know, health
and looking at their, you know, it's more important to look at their family history rather than their
actual race itself, because a lot of the things that they might be looking at and attributing to
race might be like socioeconomic background, you know, where they particularly grew up, you know,
if you grew up in a food desert, you're going to have probably higher rates of diabetes and
heart disease because you're eating food that's not fresh and filled with preservatives. And,
you know, so there's, yeah, it's complicated. And some people try to oversimplify.
I watched a Netflix video, it was like a show series, where they are showing like two million
years ago, they found a cave. I'm butchering this as I start, but you probably, you probably don't
know about it. They found a cave system where- Oh, is this right thing, Star?
Way, I think so, like they go way in and then there's this actual very skinny passage down where
they buried a kid and there's like inscriptions on the wall. It looks like- So, that is a little
complicated. So, it's about 300,000 years. That's home on a letty. Yeah, that's okay. So, there's,
it's very, dare I say, controversial in my field because that special came out. I believe it's
called Cave of Secrets and it's about the rising star cave system in South Africa. It's fascinating
and home on a letty is a huge, huge discovery. I do not want to take away or detract from that at
all. It is fascinating the work that Lee Berger and his team have done. I don't know. Basically,
I'll kind of give you the story because it's one of my favorite stories and it all begins with a
Facebook post. So, essentially, back in 2000, I believe 13, two cavers that, you know, they're
big on cave in South Africa, very skinny men, went down into this cave and they kind of got
shimmied on through this system and got down to, you know, this one cave and they went even deeper
down into another cave and they found remnants, bones, fossils that they were like, wait a minute,
this looks like this could be something and they, I believe they took photos and their camera
broke and they are like, you know, their batteries died or something. So, they had to go back and
do it again. But they got the photos to Lee Berger who upon seeing them knew that this was,
this was a huge find, that this was a hominin. And just to tell you how fortunately Berger is,
a few years earlier in 2008, his son Matthew Berger, who I have since, you know, I know now he's at
USC working in getting a film degree, I believe. They were walking along in South Africa and he
discovered a skull his son did of a whole different species. So, like, he's already had great success
and that was Australopithecus sediba. So, I already discovered that and now he's got this cave system
with these bones and he's like, okay, we need to do, you know, a dig, we need to get these up.
But the cave system was so narrow, he needed specifically a specific size that could get
through this little tiny opening. I believe it was like, I'm going to butcher this maybe 10,
12 inches that they had to, they had to get real skinny, real small, I could never. I'm way too much
of a robust hominin. And so they needed very skinny, basically, spelunkers that could do this
expedition that had maybe archaeological or paleoanthropology background and a bunch of people
submitted and applied and it ended up being a team of all female researchers that went down
and they called them and they were awesome. I know a few of them, I respect them because I could
never, right? I mean, we were talking about before we got into this about being claustrophobic at
Disneyland because of crowds. Imagine being in this tiny cave all, not all day, because I think
they did like shifts and things, but still this tiny little cave that, you know, at any moment,
if something goes wrong, you're buried alive. And so these five women did this expedition,
they called them the underground astronauts because they filmed the whole thing and they
ended up bringing up what was a new species, homonoledi. And when they dated it, it's actually
around 300,000 years old, which would make them contemporaries with humans. Because anatomically
modern humans, our age varies anywhere between 250 and 300,000 years young. We're pretty very young
species, really. So what was crazy about homonoledi is their brain case, their brain size, very small,
not very big. So it was like, wait a minute, this is strange. And this is why, by the way,
for those watching, the line of human evolution, you know, that's that line that you see where it's
like the ape slowly standing up, you know, and then if it's a funny thing, it's then it's getting
back down because it's on a computer. But you know, that line, that supposes that, you know, human
evolution is this trajectory, like this linear trajectory, it's this chain, right? And you're
looking for a missing link. No, no, no, no, no. Evolution is this big brambly bush that's all
over the place. Because now we know that there are species that lived alongside us that had smaller
brains that had different like limb proportions that still were upright walking hominins, you know
what I mean? So it's we're finding more and more out that we it's more of a bush than it is this
line. But anyways, so that discovery, there was talk when that first happened that they could
have buried their dead, but that would have meant going into a weird tiny little crevasse,
knowing that this thing exists and then burying them. And so that that particular Netflix special
came out at a time before the the paper came out that was to be peer reviewed. So I had some
issues with some of the things that were said in the video or in the in the film, including
there was kind of a jumping into conclusions when they saw what appeared to be black soil was like,
oh, a fire and it's like, well, unless you test that, you don't know if that's remnants of a fire
because magnesium in soil can also be very dark. There's a skull called black skull. This is
Pranthropus Ethiopicus. I printed it with black PLA filament on a 3d printer, but the skull itself,
it's called black skull because it was very, very dark. And that's because the manganese
in the soil so our magnesium, excuse me, in the soil. So anyways, there was a lot of assumptions
in that film that, you know, I'm all about like, let's see and test and do the peer reviewed,
you know, review of the paper, that I think there was some jumping to conclusions that
they might be more sophisticated than they really were. I don't know exactly where the jury stands
with all the paleoanthros, but there was a lot of a lot of controversies when that came out about
making some pretty big assumptions. Because in science, that's where like the religion in science
become fuzzy, right? You know what I mean? Like with science, you want to do rigorous testing,
right? Let's not assume. Whereas in religion, there's a lot of like, well, yeah, I mean, man,
sure, deep turned water into wine, cool, you know, birding bush seems totally logical. You know,
I mean, and you, and the myths, they're myths in some ways and parables. So it's like that's,
there's, there's room for creative license, but with science, there shouldn't be as much.
So that's why that, that particular film was a little frustrating for the biological way of
watching it and not saying that it wasn't good and that, you know, but it, one of the jumps in
that, and I think we're talking about the same one, unless they did more than one of, on the same
one. But the, they found what they thought was it was like a child's bones. And they found a rock
that seemed more like a tool, like a sharp tool, and they like buried this useful sharp tool with
this assumption being you, that that was that little kid's tool, or at least some parent gave
it to the kid, and they buried it with him so that wherever they go, now this is where you get
into like philosophy and religion a little, like they wouldn't have buried this if they weren't
assuming they're going to a place to use the tool, kind of like we have afterlife ideas and stuff.
I thought that was kind of cool because I, whether it's true or not, I didn't know whether or not
peer reviewed scientists are saying that was a tool or not, you know, what is it, what does the
consensus say about this anymore? But one of the reasons I thought, okay, that's really interesting
that if there was some proto model of understanding that people when they die, they thought after
they're dead, they're still somewhere. And it made me think there might be something to that,
like we should be open to something like that. And the reason I think that not saying that they
really are there, it's just that humans, like one of the more common things when someone's
loved one is gone is that they hear them, or they feel them, or they experience them when
they're gone, and they're gone, they're gone. So they go to the doctors and they talk to them about
their post traumatic stress of losing a loved one and things. And that's very common. So I wonder
naturally if these hominid species thought they're still around somehow, they're still experiencing
something, I just can't see them here. And now that they're buried and we see, it makes me think
maybe there's something to it, but I don't know what the jury is on what you're having here.
And I apologize because I haven't stayed up on this as much as it's not my focus. I mean,
I was very much, you know, watching in the wings going, Oh, okay, because I saw the film and,
and these are people I know and I respect, you know, so I don't want to, I am not a big
shit talker. Generally, I don't, that's not how I do. And I do respect them very much
as academics, but I felt like it was a bit of a leap. And I think other people were feeling that
too, especially when it was the, the demonstrating how they would have gotten and buried in their,
offspring or their kids in it. I was like, who would do that? Who wouldn't, who in their right
mind? Cause they're like, they would be carrying torches down through this tiny pass. And I was
like, why? I was like, I thought when they were doing that, explaining that, and, and sorry to
interrupt, I just, this is all in it. If I don't, what you just said is so important because I thought,
here's their loved one, they cherish and value so much, which anyone does today. And they're
taking them through this small little chimney of a hole. And how do they get them down? I thought,
they're probably not using ropes. They just dropped the dead body. And I'm thinking how they
must have not, I can't imagine how they would have handled it down through that hole, that drop.
That was my, I watched it. And I, that was my, my thought was I don't, I don't, and I know a lot
of Anthros also had that thought as well, that this seems a little presumptuous and farfetched. But,
you know, again, I'm, I try, it's hard because right, there's, there's a point of becoming
an academic and, and working in this field that you still feel like an imposter sometimes where
you're just like, well, they're older than me, they should know, and this and that. But sometimes
you realize, no, you, you, your concerns are valid. And this is very farfetched, you know.
And so, and same with the, the markings on the wall, again, you know, it's easy to, I think,
just like believing in Bigfoot, people want to believe we're very romantic. And there is,
and I, I talk about this when I teach that when, when we look at speciation, there are,
there are folks that are lumpers and splitters. And let me explain. Lumpers are those that are like,
well, okay, this species looks like it's in the variation of Homo habilis. Let's just put it,
lump it in with them. And then there's those that are like, oh, this one actually has a pretty,
this is individual has a pretty big brain compared to Homo habilis. I think it's its own species.
Let's call it Homo rudolfensis. And that right there would be splitting off, right? And there
are those that, you know, because then if you look at all the hominins that have been sort of
written about, there are more than the ones that we really teach about in class, because they are
those that have split off. And then later on, they get lumped in, or we're like, we're not 100%
sure. Because what it is, is there is money, there is fame, there are accolades that come with
discovering a new species. And it's not just that, but also, and by the way, Homo let Naledi is 100%
a new species. I'm not saying that. But when you, when you discover something, a novel behavior,
there is some excitement there, right? We just have to be careful to not jump to conclusions,
right? And that I think is where with with Homo Naledi, I think a lot of people are like, okay,
it is fascinating that there is a species that lived, you know, 300,000 years ago that had a
brain size this small, you know, that, you know, and was built the way they were compared to
anatomically modern humans. We also know that we had the Hobbit Homo floresiensis. I was,
I was biff that name up, but Homo floresiensis lived in Indonesia on the island of Flores.
They had a very small cranial capacity for a long time. There were actually two camps in
biological anthropology. And I remember being at the meeting where they were arguing about this,
there were two camps about the Hobbit, one that thought that they were a small group,
a community that had microcephaly. So, you know, remember Zika when the babies were born and
they had very small brains and very small head. So like a group like that. And then there were
others saying that, no, this was a new species. And what has won out is it, it's a new species,
which is cool. It's crazy cool because that means during the Pleistocene, you know,
contemporaries of humans were these small, short, statured humans because they're humans.
They're in the genus Homo with these small little heads, you know, and they seem to have,
you know, a tool industry and did okay. And they weren't necessarily building kingdoms and things
like this, but this is 37,000 years ago. So, but so, you know, we're constantly digging up
new treasure, you know what I mean? And by treasure, I mean fossils, it's an, and I think,
you know, we're going to continue to do that. You know, the discovery of Lucy was, oh my god,
it's 50 years ago this year, that Australopithecus apharenzis or Lucy, this is a apharenzis kind
of composite skull. So a lot of different versions put into here. This one though,
I think feels like the canines are a little big. But anyways, it was 50 years ago that Don Johansson
and his team in Hadar, Ethiopia discovered Lucy. And since then, there have been so many discoveries.
So that's the kind of exciting thing, right? Is we're just, we keep discovering, you know,
new species that are, and also like new species living alongside other species at the exact
same time. And you're just like, how did these like, hold on, Boisei and Homo habilis were
contemporaries? You know what I mean? Like, you know what I mean? They lived at the same time.
Like, how did they get along with each other? Were they just like, sup sup? Or were they like,
fuck you, I'm gonna get you. You know, I actually just interviewed Brianna Pobiner and Michael Ponte.
Brianna Pobiner is at the Smithsonian. Michael Ponte is at, oh my god, Colorado State,
is that the one in Fort Collins? Forgive her. Yeah, if I got it wrong. I just interviewed them
about the potential first evidence of cannibalism in our ancestry about 1.45 million years ago.
But this is the deal. There were three different species living in this area at that time. And
we're looking just at a tibia bone. So we don't know 100% sure which species that tibia bone
belonged to. But they found, and it's something that they found in the 70s, right? Brianna Pobiner
is a big believer of going back and looking at old fossils that have been discovered with fresh
eyes because she was like, wait a minute, these look like not bite marks, but cut marks. So she
went back and looked at them, sent, you know, I guess, scandom and had Michael Ponte look at the
marks and was like, oh no, this looks like, you know, these look like cut marks. So, you know,
again, what's interesting is, you know, sort of the semantics to be considered cannibalism,
they have to be of the same species. But because it's going to be so difficult to determine what
species it was and what species might have done that, we'll never quite know. But it's still
pretty interesting that it could have been, you know, two different hominins eating each other,
could have been the same hominin, it could have been, you know, maybe this is an individual that
died. And so they're defleshing it, you know, for some sort of ritual, who knows, you know, like,
there's so many different options that you could kind of go with. But yeah, it's really fascinating.
I love learning all of this stuff that you're describing. And one of the things you do a lot
is talk about sex in evolution. I mean, like you get into various hominids and modern, you know,
chimpanzees, apes, you're looking at various groups today and how they behave, what they do,
how their patterns are, their sexual activity and things like that. And something I want to bring
it kind of back to kind of the myth vision base of someone who was coming out of religion. And in
many of the people who give their kind of exiting Christianity interview with me and how they ended
up going, not always, but sex gets brought up in some way, shape or form as a prevalent or important
part aspect of their journey. It seems that the religion that I was taught, the way that I was
taught it made it a bad thing, right? Sex is a bad thing. You can read church fathers who just,
you know, the woman is literally the one who made us fall or like women can be saved only
through childbirth and some of the epistles that you find in them. You know, there's all sorts of
different ideas that men have. The question I have for you is someone who might make the argument
that, look, in nature, we find all of these aspects from same sex relationships to people who are
interested in opening up their, I guess you'd say their relationships and who they have sex with or
even the idea of sex and such. A lot of people will use nature and go, hey, this is, this is
normal. It's things we've done. But then those who want to hold their religious views over on
other people will go, well, also in nature you have cannibalism as you might describe or that's
probably a bad example, but or they eat their young or they kill their offspring or they kill
their, like if they're adopting a child of the family, one of them died, they kill that child
instead of letting it live or the list goes on and on. How would you navigate the morality and
nature of evolution in our species pertaining to sex? Well, I think you bring up some good
points about, you know, oh, well, if we, you know, if you're gonna bring up nature, why don't I bring
up like infanticide or, you know, sexual cannibalism and things of that sort, you know, and a lot of
those are outliers. I mean, sexual cannibalism aside, because that, you know, if that's something
built into like praying mantises and the black widow, I think we should bring that back by the
way it might keep there. I'm just kidding. I do joke about that. I was like, hmm, no. But a lot of
times like infanticide does happen, like say if a, you know, a gorilla, you know, generally with
western lowland gorillas or round gorillas, you have a one male and then multiple females,
sometimes two males, but one male is really the one that kind of has access to the females.
And sometimes there is infanticide if a male overthrows the other gorilla and wants to kind
of kickstart the women or the females being able to have more offspring, he might commit
infanticide. But it's, it's, it's not as common, I think, as people would like to believe. So,
and also let's be real, everything that we see down in animals, humans have done in our species,
right? So as far as it'll do, it'll do. No, no, no. I mean, like, that's the thing is when I,
when I, when I did this cannibalism episode, it's, it's, I think we're gonna finish recording it
shortly, but I'd bring up modern day examples, you know, with cannibalism, you know, whether it's
out of necessity, like the Donner party, right? Or, you know, Dahmer, you know, we've got examples
of it. So, you know, we're not any better. And I make the argument pretty regularly when we say,
oh, you know, animals are just like us. It's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, we've been around 300,000
years. We are just like that when we talk about their grief, their altruism, their jealousy,
their understanding of what is fair and not fair. That is something that they have had, you know,
and we have evidence of that, whether it's Corvids, non-human primates, whales, things of that sort.
We, we see, you know, elephants. We see attributes, characteristics that we oftentimes think of just
purely human. We see them in animals and we, we're really species centric and we think we're so
We're the center of the universe, right? We really are. We're just like, we're human. Oh,
it's so driving me crazy. I actually, one of my side jobs is I work at Griffith Observatory. So,
you know, so we talk about the time when they thought that Earth was the center of the universe
and the sun revolved around us. It's like, we are that in the animal world. We think everything is
just like, and that's the other thing about evolution. It's not a goal-driven process. So,
if I could really drive anything home to, to, to folks that might be like, I don't know about
evolution, I understand because it, it is a lot. It's a lot, right? But it's not goal-driven. We're
not humans. It's not like we evolution got to us and they were like, okay, we're done, you know?
It's, there's no, it's not like, you know, it's setting out to a goal, right? Like this is just,
we're just along, we're just along the line, you know, there might be something after us. There
might not be something after, I mean, there'll be something after us. It might just not be us
anymore. But anyways, back to humans. Morality and how this, yeah, I just want to, I just want
to capitalize on something while we're getting into this. And as you're explaining, I don't want
you to lose track, is that you're pretty much saying the morality, as far as we can even observe
in contemporary animals in nature. And of course, we can see probably some aspects of this through
fossil record and kind of use an analogous modern or doing this than potentially antiquity is also
the same way. They have, what we're describing as bad things and fantasize or something to these
effects, like we talked about cannibalism or whatever it might be, they also potentially
saw those things as heretical or, or taboo or something that was not the common what should
be practiced thing in nature. Is that kind of where, where you're going with it? You mean,
like, will others kind of condemn their behavior sort of thing? Right, like socially, right?
So, really, like one of my favorite, God, what was, it was a, oh man, this was such a fun,
funny study. I need to dig this up because this would be great to cover is it was about
freeloaders. It was about freeloader monkeys and freeloader monkeys were frowned upon,
which I just thought was so funny because it was like monkeys that were, I'll have to find it,
I'll dig it up and I'll send it to you. But it was like, even they were like, come on, come on,
you know, stop it. Right. And so, one of my favorite examples, I was at the LA Zoo, I must have
been 21 or 22. This is before I became primatologist. This is when I deeply wanted to become one,
but I didn't know how. And if you, by the way, if you feel that way, folks at home,
reach out to me because I can give you a path because I was literally going, I was working
in television going, how can I do this for a living? I still, you know, yeah, but I was watching
a gorilla named Caesar, who I love, I loved at the zoo. And, but then next to his enclosure,
he was by himself because he was hand reared by humans. So he didn't want to get down with anybody.
He just kind of chilled by himself. But the enclosure next door, there was a new male named
Kelly, who's now been at the LA Zoo forever, like 24, 45. So he's been there for over 20
something years. And he was being introduced to a group of females. And it was hilarious because,
you know, nobody would get near him. And I remember there was a female zookeeper that I was
like, what's going on? And she's like, oh, this is this new guy's introduced. This is the first
day. And I was like, okay, cool. And he's just like walking around, like kind of like, hey ladies,
you know, and he walks up to a female and everybody's kind of around the gorilla enclosure
complaining that they're not doing anything. Because they're generally chill, right? And then
he walks up to a female and he whacks her like, I'm telling you, it was so loud, you could hear
it, you could feel it. It was one of those like, holy shit, what did he just do? Right? And I'm,
I'm telling you, all those females ganged up on him and chased him all around. Like they were like,
nope, this is not happening, not on our watch. And so it was a great example of,
you know, sure, he's, he was a young silver, silverback is just an adult male, right? He was,
he was kind of like an adolescent silverback, you know, on that line, he was, he was still
pretty young. But no, you're not going to get away with that. No, you're not. And it was really
interesting. So yeah, in the animal world, there are those that maybe do bad things that were by
bad things. I mean, you know, kill, maim, you know, and there are consequences. Sometimes there aren't
as many as you would expect, you know, and chimpanzees, they can be pretty brutal. And
you don't necessarily see them being ostracized in some cases. Sometimes they're promoted,
you know, but at the same time, it's complicated. It seems like the social environment or the group
themselves may hold to a different perception of that, that particular thing. Like, like,
if we look at humans and we see how certain tribes in the past were just, I mean, even like
empires, these are, these are young tribe, just tribe groups, but like empires and how they were
on warfare and killing and literally leaving no one behind kind of genocidal or even like
contemporary examples, right? Like we could go, the, I guess what I'm getting at is like, your
point is the morality code and it's very subjective based on the environment of the group,
but we learned it from our ancestors. This is something that was proto human, proto homo sapien.
This has been going on for a long time. Yeah, it's not, I mean, it's not even like that we learned
it. It's just kind of what we are and who we are. And I think there is a very much ingrained altruism
in our species as there are in many others. You know, I think we'd like to think that there
were just purely selfish, you know, the selfish gene. We just want to, you know, we're out for
ourselves, but I think there really is a lot of altruism throughout all species, you know, to an
extent, right? We see it, you know, selfless behavior doing acts that would put one at risk.
Like I know that, you know, in herds, sometimes one, if a herd of antelope is being chased by
lion or, you know, lioness, really let's be real females that do the hunting male lions are just
lazy and fucking each other. But anyway, so still be, you know, a whole nother story. But yeah,
so, you know, you, you can maybe see a herd being chased and one will kind of, you know,
do some sort of behavior or kind of like, look at me, you know, that will put itself in danger,
but kind of let the herd get away a little bit, you know, you see that sort of behavior or alternating
and then charging at the lion and being like, Oh, you want a piece of this, you know, so
you can see behavior that again, you would maybe relate to, Oh, that's so human-like. And maybe
is an example of altruism or empathy. I do think humans are unique in the fact that we have this
elevated sense of empathy and altruism, right? We, you know, we will share food, we will feed
each other, we will take care of each other. But, you know, I think that to say that it's only us
that has, you know, the kindness and the empathy, I think is being very short-sighted and pretty
darn species-centric. As far as morality and sex, I do think that it's really interesting
that humans, and to be clear, there's so many different ways to do human, right? Like, there's
so many different humans, there's so many different groups and the environment and our culture very
much shapes who we are. So like, we're very much, we're a biological species, right? And we're very
much a cultural species. And the environment shapes a lot of our culture. So it's all connected,
right? And so I think there's a lot of way to do this whole human-animal experience. But it is
interesting that we put this sort of morality or value on sex. I remember the first time I saw
a spider monkey, first time I did any sort of preliminary spider monkey field work, the first
time I ever really saw spider monkeys in the field, it was actually a spider monkey threesome. It was
one male going back and forth between two females throughout the day. It was three different
populations. Spider monkeys have very long populations. I think each one was roughly
25 minutes. Just to give you a comparison, human populations on average are about three minutes.
I know that you might be like, wait a minute, I'm much longer. I know, I'm talking on average.
On average, I'm not, this is not about you. I'm teasing. But yeah, like the spider monkeys have
these very long populations, but it was hilarious because I remember watching and they would have
the female would have their kids hanging on them while they're getting
boned. And you're just like, you know what I mean? And it's just this interesting,
there's no shame. There's no judgment that I know of. Again, I don't speak spider monkey. They
could have been like, Mary, that harlot. But for the most part, it was just, it is what it is.
And we see promescuity throughout the animal kingdom, especially non-human primates. You see
it in bonobos. You see in chimpanzees, spider monkeys. You see it in the mouse lemur in Madagascar.
They have to make up and because they have such high amounts of promescuity, the males have very
large testicles because they have a lot of male male competition. And usually funny enough,
testicle size, ball size, you know, corresponds with the amount of promescuity. If there's a lot
of male male competition, they'll have bigger cajones, like bonobo males have bigger cajones
than chimpanzee males do. And it's just, you know, kind of a bit of a free for all. So
it's really interesting that we put this sort of shame or moral spin on sex where a lot of the
animal world, you know, in fact, the southern right whale has the biggest DNA satchels in the
world, the biggest balls. Each one weighs 1,100 pounds, 2,200 pounds of silos of seed in there.
And they're inside, right? Because it's a whale. Imagine if those were, you know, truck nuts,
they would just be massive jangers, you know. Talk about the submarine was taken out by his
I know. But yeah, they have these giant, giant testicles inside their body. They even have,
it's called reed mirabil. It's a network of veins and arteries that act like an AC unit to keep them
nice and cool because they can overheat. But the reason one of the reasons they have such a giant,
you know, beanbags is the female southern right whale is highly promiscuous. And they all mate
with the, you know, seven males in one, you know, night, you know, or sitting or season, you know,
it depends on how many are around, you know, it's a pretty big ocean oceans out there to find
each other. But yeah, so they have that, that is a way to kind of make up for the male male
competition is having very high quality sperm in some cases and also, you know, giant, yeah, man sacks.
It's so complex and yet interesting for me to think about how this is getting down into the
anatomy, like how these bonobo males end up with the biggest Cajones in competition with other
males. Like what caused that natural selection to take place? Was there constant competitiveness
in the cultural environment with the species they're trying to mate with? And therefore,
there was a natural inclination within their own bio makeup that made them start making the
the testosterone more produced because more testosterone, typically bigger Cajones, it seems
because that's where it's stored. For the most part, like, what do you think? How would someone
who's trying to explain that scientifically? So the cool thing about bonobos is it's not like that,
you know, they're competitive, but it's more about it's not a violent competitive competition. Like
so with bonobos, they are. So chimpanzees and bonobos are closest genetic relatives, right?
Like I mentioned, and they about six million years ago, we split off to two million years ago,
they split. And they have two very different ways to deal with tension, right? So chimpanzees,
they fight it out, bonobos, they like to bone it out. And because of that, and like, and not just
that, but the females, because they run the show, they're female dominant, they get to kind of,
it's not necessarily always ladies choice, but like the males will have, you know, pretty,
it's actually kind of flipped a little bit. I interviewed Dr. Amy Parrish, who's a wonderful
bonobo expert and was the first person that published that bonobos were female dominant.
But she said that in chimpanzees, a lot of times, males will give females with sexual
swellings, meaning they're receptive, they'll give them pieces of fruit in order to kind of,
you know, it's kind of like, Hey, babe, happy Valentine's Day. Here's a necklace. Let's do it.
They'll give pieces of fruit to females that are receptive. In bonobos, she said that oftentimes
the males will try to get pieces of fruit by giving sex, you know what I mean from the females,
because oftentimes, you know, the females are again running the show. And so it's a little flipped,
right? Like the gender roles, which there aren't strict gender roles in nonhuman primates the
same way that we see, you know, I mean, that we can tell, right? Because again, we don't all, but
you know, you don't see like, you know, a female spider monkey getting chastised because, you
know, she had the audacity to pick a piece of fruit and not, you know, herself, right? And didn't
let a male do it and give it to her, right? There's not like the strict roles that we see in our
own species that are enforced in some cultures. But yeah, so it's really interesting that in
bonobos, you know, the females kind of, you know, do run the show. And oftentimes they'll
prefer to have sex with, she said that she sometimes sees them prefer to have sex with other females
because there's a there's a more of a guarantee of them getting the rocks off because they,
you know, are doing the GG rubbing, which they do from what they observe, reach orgasm and not
necessarily from just straight penetration, which, you know, can be enjoyable, but not the same.
And, but they also, a lot of bonobos will have, they're very, like I said, they are kind of like
the karma sutra of the primates, you know, they're called panpaniscus. That is their name, but I
joke they should be pan promiscuous, because that is how they do. And they'll do a lot of face to
face love making. So there's a lot of eye contact with them. But yeah, so the males are competitive,
but not violently so, right? So it's not necessarily like a competition, like, I'll get you, but more
just like their biology is competing, not necessarily the dudes themselves. It's kind of
interesting, right? It's not like they're, you know, it's like they're, don't worry, I don't have to
get brutal with you, you know, my sperm is going to outcompete yours, you know, because they also,
by the way, chimpanzees have very high quality and bonobos have very high quality sperm compared
to humans. Human sperm has degraded over time. It's getting actually worse. I know that there've
been studies recently about pesticides and its effect on sperm, and it's affecting sperm counts.
So and also the quality is just not the best with our species. So that's something to consider. But
yeah, so it's not necessarily like they're, they're to be crass, their balls got bigger because
they're fighting more, you know, it's, it's just a response to probably the high amounts of sexual
activity. Because like even with the Southern right whale, they're not, they're not fighting
necessarily for these females or not the whales. They're kind of almost, I mean, I guess they're
kind of patiently waiting in line. I know that echidnas, which are a monotreme, they're egg laying
mammals, they're fascinating. Males have a four-headed bologna pony. I'm not even kidding. I
made a video about it. If you want to Google something slightly terrifying, Google echidna
penis, because it does have four heads. Apparently they only use two of them at a time, or choose
between two. And but the males will actually small form a small line waiting to copulate with
the female and they don't fight. So, but it's just interesting, you know, like the, they might have
competition in the fact that they're multiple sex partners, but they're not, it's not the competition
you're thinking about, you know, the competition down there where the, you know, the sperm is
competing inside, you know. So this whole thing, I love this. I love learning this because this,
it puts, first of all, takes us off our high horse and it makes us come back down to the
animal kingdom for a moment and realize like, hey, it's happening with us right now as we speak.
We're so blind and not seeing in the mirror. But two, I watched a video and it was one of those,
like, documentary channel or national geographic. I can't remember what kind of monkey it was. And
it was, you had like, I think they were gorillas. It may have been a different type of monkey. I
can't remember exactly what kind of hominid species or what kind of monkey, I'll just say, it was.
It's definitely, the man was like the head honcho and then his wife or woman would call
wife. That's so anachronistic. Like his partner that you know is like, had children by him and
is now sneaking off with his brother. He palms her and then the next thing he knows,
he's rushing after, oh, I dropped my phone. Sorry. He's rushing after, I think her or him. I can't
remember, but he's, you could tell he's not happy with what just happened. And so maybe it was like,
first of all, this is disrespectful. I'm the leader you're not supposed to, I don't know if this,
like what that seems like that was a moral no-no in that group. Yeah, there are examples. I mean,
so usually with, it could have been a gorilla, it could have been, I mean, there's so many,
there's so many, honestly, so many primates, it could have been, it could have been a macaque.
I mean, the pacaques are more of a promiscuous horde, if you will, but there are hierarchies
of males, you know, and usually in most, in most old world primate groups, there are,
by old world primates, I mean males, I'm sorry, Africa and Asia, we're moving away from terms
like old world and new world because they're just sort of steeped in colonialism, but
circopithecine and platterine don't really roll off the tongue so easy. But anyways,
there's a lot of sort of a strict hierarchy of males in the old world monkeys, you see it in
baboons, you see it in macaques, but and you see, you know, with great apes, you see, you know,
a gorilla, maybe one male, possibly a sub-adult, another male with a group of females, but usually
it's one male that has access to her. And if the other one tries to sneak a copulation, it doesn't
go so well. But yeah, in macaques, I know that females sometimes will sneak copulations with
not the alpha male, you know, but they have to be very sneaky about it because they don't want to
get caught, they don't want to get, you know, their ass handed to them. chimpanzees, same to,
you know, like there's been great documentaries that have come out with chim empire and other,
you know, just really well done documentaries about non-human primate behavior where you see
females kind of sneaking off with maybe a male that's not, you know, at the top of his game,
right? And so, yeah, I mean, and there could be a benefit for females for sure. And this is one
of the, you know, anthropology class years ago. And he was a cultural anthropology professor,
but he was talking about how, so he was kind of stepping out of line, you know, out of his lane,
and he basically said, you know, it makes sense for females to only, you know, be with one male,
it makes sense for males to be with a lot of females. And I was like, nope, nope, nope, nope,
because if you think about it, think about it this way, if a female, especially, you know,
in a non-human primate and in an environment where they have to take care of their offspring.
So like, for instance, in if you, if I lived in an environment where it's like, I have a nuclear
family and I know I have a husband, you know, or a partner that's going to take care of my kids,
it would behoove me to just have him if I know he's solid and good. But if I'm a non-human primate
female or even a human primate female that knows that it's just going to be on me,
and I don't know the quality of this guy's sperm or that guy's sperm or that guy's sperm,
it would make sense for me to kind of get around to all the dudes and have babies by different
dudes because who knows, this guy could all have, you know, just be, be junk, right? So
it's not necessarily the good thing to put all your eggs in one basket, literally and figuratively.
So I'm sorry, if I may press on that, just because something came to mind, like you're not saying
we don't know for sure because we can't speak the language if they are communicating somehow.
We're not saying in this case that this chimpanzee, let's say for example, actually is thinking about
who's sperm is quality to produce a child, but maybe in the social sense, they might be thinking,
hey, I've observed enough children being born, enough of this stuff going on to know that I need
to be picking multiple in case one of them is faithful and loves me back or decides they want to.
I don't think they're thinking like that necessarily. I think that might be like the
evolutionary benefit or the biological benefit. But what they might be thinking more is I want
to be on the good side of multiple males in this group, right? Because this alpha who's a total
jerk that I have to, that wants to kind of maintain, you know, or they just prefer this other,
you know, male that they're having a copulation with. But there is a benefit to forming these
sexual alliances. Kind of like so baboons, females will actually, it's Barbara Smuts,
which is a great last name. She's also a great anthropologist, amazing. And she was Amy Parish's,
I think she's so Amy Parish who studied bonobos, it was her academic mom. So like in academia,
we have like a high like not a hierarchy, but we have like the genealogy. Like so I think, yeah,
so her academic advisor or mom and then her grandmother, academic grandmother, Sarah Herty,
who also has another really cool study I'll tell you about in a minute. But Barbara Smuts looked
at baboon females who befriended male baboons. So when you actually have male, female friendships
and baboons, which aren't necessarily sexual, but they become friends with them, and they,
that adds and serves as added protection against other males. Like for instance, if another mean
male is trying to get all kind of bossy with them, they have this male who their buddy's with.
But they, she also found that being in the friend zone in baboons also means you can get
upgraded to the fuck zone over time. So like it does, there is a benefit to behave, you know,
like be friending one another where there is the added protection, but it is a little bit of a
transaction, right? And even though like maybe over time that she wants to, and she gets to the
point where she's like, you know what, I really should give Steve a shot. He's been nice to me.
But like there is this sort of assumption that like why would males and females be friends with
each other? It's like there is a mutual benefit there. But an interesting thing that I'll bring
up from Amy Parrish who studied bonobos, her great academic grandmother. I love this. I love
that it's such a strong matcher line of academics. It's Sarah Herty, Barbara Smuts and Dr. Amy Parrish.
And Sarah Herty looked at, she studied a lot of really cool topics in anthropology, but one of
them was looking at concealed ovulation and that there were a couple different theories about why
human women, you can't tell when we're ovulating unless you really know your partner. It's hard
to tell because our closest genetic relatives chimpanzees and bonobos, you can definitely tell.
People talk about monkey butts. And if they're talking about a chimp or a bonobo, that's not
their butt. That's their very swollen vagine, their vulva. You don't get that with humans. And so
there's a couple theories of why that is. One is that the more feminist critique is that it's
as many fathers theory that if you don't know who your kid is, you're going to be nice to all the
kids, right? So like for instance, if I'm having sex with Tom Dick and Harry and none of them know
if I'm ovulating, so none of them know which kid, if any of them are theirs, they're going to be
nice to all of them, right? They're not going to kill my children. They're just going to cut down
infanticide. It's going to cut down on them just being jerks. There's a less feminist critique is
that this concealed ovulation promotes monogamy because you want to nail down your woman and
make sure that she doesn't have any sort of copulations with other dudes during her time.
But the problem with that is it doesn't really taking, I mean, I think it strips away the female
agency, but also there are so many human groups throughout the world that aren't monogamous,
right? And a big chunk of the poor population isn't monogamous. So that really kind of doesn't
make the most sense. But anyway, so that's kind of fascinating as well. There's a lot of neat
anthro stuff that I like. I just think it's really interesting. I'm asking that whole
morality question and going into the animal kingdom that we just did to help people see
all of these attributes and aspects you discussed show up in your Bible. I mean, you've got guys
who supposedly have all these wives and then there are slaves and they become their wives, too,
to have children with. And like, it's the very book in which they, the ones who are arguing
these cases, whether it be Islam, Judaism, Christianity, typically Abrahamic, but nonetheless,
there are other examples of religions that do this. But they're saying, oh, my book says,
and this is the law and yada, yada, yada. And it's like, these are things that we see
animals already do too. And in many ways, there's overlap and common morality that we find that
has been going on for who knows how millions of years, at least in the primates, are ancestral
primates, like maybe beyond that. Yeah, no, I mean, it's fascinating because I think that humans,
we want to believe and I understand why we want to believe we're special, we're special.
We're, we're the chosen, we're God's chosen children, you know, but let's be real, like,
you know, we're, we're, we're just another species, we're just another animal, we're very
special animal. But we also all the things that we say that, you know, I don't know, we like to
think that animals learned it from us. And it's very much the opposite, I think, you know, I think
we, and we didn't necessarily learn it, it's just like we evolved alongside these species. And it's
just, you know, we share common ancestors with them. So, and a lot of our behavior is, we have to
remember is shaped by our environment and our culture. And at any point we can, and the cool
thing about cultural, cultural evolution, and this whole point that things are shaped by our
culture, cultural evolution happens a lot faster than biological evolution. So if there's something
we really don't like, and that's like why, you know, things like trans rights and gay rights and,
you know, just kind of seeing leaps and bounds and, you know, and the frustration I feel like
it with civil rights is you can't be complacent for one second, because then it's like two steps
back, you got to just kind of keep at it nonstop fighting back, fighting back, fighting back.
But that evolution can happen a lot faster than biological evolution. So, you know, a lot of that,
we, if we don't like what we see or how we feel in our, in our culture and our society, we can
work to change it, you know, yeah. And so I think that's gives me a lot of hope to, you know, when
we see like, because I do like to point out, you know, I pointed out earlier that, you know, we're
99.9% the same genetically, right? I like to point out that in our animal kingdom, there's over
1500 species that have been documented, engaging in homo, homosexual behavior, right? And there's
only one species that has been documented, engaging in homophobic behavior. And ironically,
that species is in the genus, homo. But it's humans, right? And it's, it's ridiculous in it.
I am, I like to think that we're, we're, we're growing, but I also know that it's a constant
fight. You can't like, I mean, look at women's reproductive rights. If we like, let her guard
down five seconds, you know, we stand to lose. Every is like huge chunks of freedom. Yeah.
This is, this is a powerful point. You're bringing up a very interesting point.
I've actually had a discussion, we're kind of debate discussion with someone who wanted to
argue against homosexuality or the same sex relationships. And I know that that term,
some people get offended by the way that you say it, you know, but I don't mean it that way.
But the people arguing with me, we're trying to use again, look at all the harm, look at all
the disease that comes from this particular practice. And I, my response was, maybe you can
help me and defend it. What I'm saying, I said, look at how much same sex disease. And then they
go, but yeah, yeah, yeah, but that's why you're supposed to marry a specific girl. And, you know,
she's a virgin and then she doesn't have all of these diseases. And then you're saving yourself.
Like if we do this, this way, this is going to save us from diseases and passing around all these
things and all the harm that can come from that. Therefore, religion is good in this respect.
What are your thoughts about that?
I mean, so there's enough zoonotic diseases that don't involve sexual activity, first of all,
just to be very clear. I mean, COVID is one of them. I mean, that we look at, you know,
that that's a zoonotic disease that came from another species. And we have this thing called
viral spillover. But yeah, I mean, and that you don't has nothing to do with having, I mean,
obviously, if you're having, well, I remember there was one of the, one of the bits of advice
that I think New York gave about sex during the early days of COVID was like, do it through a wall
or a sheet. It was like, it was like the Amish. It's a new laugh. Oh my God. Yeah. But I mean,
yes, there's something to be said for disease transmission and, you know, higher rates of
that if in promiscuity, right? Like that's, but promiscuity can go multiple different ways,
right? It's going to keep happening. We have options in place to kind of cut down disease
that let's be real straight men just as bad as non straight men don't like to use these sorts of
contraceptives to help, you know what I mean? Like, and also there's a lot of people on the
down low that are not living their life the way they want. And so they're doing it on the down
low and then they're bringing that back into a, you know, heterosexual relationship. So if we
all were out in the open, perhaps we would have a cut down in that as well, because people would
just be doing their own thing. But you know, I think the gay community, especially, you know,
I grew up in Los Angeles. And I mean, the way the, you know, the AIDS epidemic was treated was so
absolutely terrible. You know, people were completely ignored. And, you know, we've had
other sexually transmitted diseases become huge problems in the past, none quite like HIV. And
for people to just call it, you know, not help or not try to get funding or do the research
because they thought it was just, you know, the homosexual, you know, homosexuals that were
getting it were absolutely, you know, wrong and mistaken. I mean, there's plenty of people that
were getting it that were not in that community. And even so, like, what is it's highly hypocritical
if that is one's reasoning for why it shouldn't happen when you're a Christian that says you're
supposed to love my neighbor and also take care of, you know, you're sick and dying, right?
So because it also is affecting everybody, the whole population was getting affected by HIV
and AIDS. The way a disease begins and the way the disease begins, I don't think is the way that
it should be treated the whole entire, you know, duration. And even if it was like, what does it
matter? You know, because it's affecting everybody. You know, something came to mind while you were
saying that about a response to someone who's trying to make a moral argument there. And that
is, well, actually, if we really want to be the most moral, we should just stop having sex completely.
You'll remove any possibility of transmission through sexual disease. And guess what? In antiquity,
I wonder how many women died in giving birth? Well, you know what? It's so dangerous.
We might as well stop giving birth, right? Because it's so dangerous. That's morally
not right, right? Yeah. Well, I talk about that with abortion. Yeah, like, you know,
those that argue that abortion is dangerous and the rates for child, especially with, you know,
women of color in America, it is disgusting. I think they're three times more likely to die
in childbirth than their white counterparts. It's disgusting. And a lot of it is because
medical professionals don't listen to, you know, black and brown communities about their pain.
And they, they're actually, for years, doctors were taught, and they're still a high degree,
I don't know what the actual percentage is, of doctors that think that black skin is thicker
than white skin and does not feel pain the same, which is such pseudoscience and such BS, you know.
So there was a grave, a great mistrust in medicine from, you know, those of marginalized
populations for very good reasons, right? Like, I wouldn't want to go to a doctor if I was told
that my skin was thicker and that my pain was not the same, even though at 100% the is, you know,
we know is the same. So again, you know, it's, yeah, childbirth can be very dangerous. Even
now, we know that especially in the United States compared to other developed nations,
it's one of the highest childbirth mortality rates in the world for developing or for developed
nations. Yeah, it's, it's bad. It's really bad. So yeah, it's not good. I'm trying to think of,
hold on, my brain, I've been on a monkey evolution sex train. This was great. This was fantastic.
So I'm like, I have more arguments in my back pocket. And I'm like, where are they? Where did
you go? Yeah. She has a whole cash. I have a whole cash. No, I do joke. I'm working on a bit
right now, because I think it's, I think it's ridiculous that we put such value on on body
counts and things like that, because I just joke that like, what's the difference between a friend
and a lover? Like, what's the difference? You do sex. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Right. So it's
just body count is just your job experience. You know, it's just, you know, and like, you know,
just, just, just some rigorous testing. You're just doing some, doing some research.
That's a good point, though. But it's just, I think it's so silly when people, I mean,
and not, I really, I want people, but more than anything, I want people to be safe, right? So,
you know, you know what to do. So I mean, it's like, if you think about it, even like food,
I mean, like, where do you draw this, this line of, oh, what are you eating? Did you cook it enough?
Like, there's so much normal stuff that they probably wouldn't say is immoral,
and that you're risking. There's so many risks and issues that come up. And it's like,
at some point, you, if you're thinking through it, and you're not built based on your bias from
being religious your whole life or something, you're going to realize that doesn't like peanut
allergic. You know, where did this allergy come from? Is this a moral thing to do something wrong?
Like, it's just silly to start drawing those lines. And it always ends up in sex a lot of times.
That's why I brought it up, because this is a topic you're obviously very educated on.
Yeah. And I think, I mean, look, one of my favorites, favorite moments in the past, like,
I don't know, it was four years ago. It was, it was right before COVID, 2019. My friend,
he was a dear friend. We hosted a Bigfoot television show together with Dean Kane in 19,
or sorry, 2013, called $10 million Bigfoot Bounty. But his name is Dr. Todd Dizzatel,
and he, what class was it? I think it was Emerging Diseases. He was teaching a class
on emerging disease at NYU, and he had to miss a class. So he had me sub to teach
about STIs, which was a lot of fun, you know what I mean? But yeah, specifically, like,
you know, about STIs and, and talking about, you know, I talked about antibiotic-resistant
gonorrhea, and, you know, we talked about syphilis and things that actually, you know,
syphilis was deadly and, you know, drove people crazy back in the day, you know? So it's,
yeah, there's something to be said for wanting to be safe, but, you know, at the end of the day,
I mean, there's, there was a time when the common cold could, could, could kill you, you know?
So it's to, to sit here and say that people should just stop having sex or only have sex
with one person for the rest of their lives, you know, to completely, perhaps not ruin, but
decrease their, that limit, decrease, um, yeah, limit the pleasure they have in life or, you know,
a life well lived, you know, because they're like, oh, well, I have to do this because if I don't,
then I'm going to go to hell. And it's just, yeah, to put that sort of morality on it, I always thought
was so funny. I thought that was just such a strange, strange thing to do compared to so many
other things, you know what I mean? Like, I don't know, I feel it's, it's again, like we were talking
about with religion in terms of trying to, I think, I don't even know if we did this during the
recording or when we were pre-talking or pre-talking about religion being kind of a, a thing to keep
people in line, right? You know, so if you tell people that if you masturbate, you're going to
grow hair on your hands or if you have sex, you're going to, you know, get, I don't know, HIV and,
and, and die. What about the school your seat on the earth that little boys are always worried
about? Don't do that. Don't do that. You know, yeah. So again, it's a way to control and with
women, it's absolutely control, you know what I mean? Like calling them whores if they dare to have,
be free with their sexuality. Like, I know that I get a whole lot of hate for that, but I think
that's absolutely ridiculous. Like, I don't, I don't know. I also don't believe or buy into this
very strong, you know, gender binary of like men can be this and women are like this. And I, I,
I, I definitely don't think like men like sex more than women. I don't think that's the case
whatsoever. And I don't think, you know, men perform more partners than women do. I think it,
there really is a spectrum, you know what I mean? Like there's some men that I know that are like,
I don't want to have sex more than with like a couple people in my whole life. Like I'm fine
with that. And I know women that are like, I want to have sex with the world. And that's fine. That's
their, that's their prerogative, right? So there really is a spectrum of what people want. And
that, a lot of that is, you know, something that is influenced by their environment, by their culture,
by their family, by their upbringing, but by their biology, by their, you know, hormone levels.
We know that testosterone and estrogen are not male and female hormones. We both have them. Some
have more testosterone. I might have more testosterone than a male does, Amanda's. They
might have more estrogen than I do. You know, it really does, it does vary. So that's biology for
you. Ladies and gentlemen, an act of God just occurred and a thunder clap and the power went
out and I can't get my blue lights back on, but you're still here. And so Natalia, I think it's
only respectful of your time. And of course, to have you come back for live streams and stuff,
because you're in the middle of something. And I don't know if you even remember, but I want to
allow you to, to give us, I guess, a recap or whatever you'd like to say as we wrap up this
episode of sex, morality, evolution, and eventually we got to talk about Bigfoot. There's also
Bigfoot's got to happen. No, I think, you know, again, primate sex is really interesting. I love
that there's so many different ways to do it. So, you know, if you ever want to hear more about that,
but yeah, they don't really put this sort of moral spin. I mean, sure, there's jealousy and,
you know, intrigue and things like that. But yeah, it was enough that it got, you know,
got so upset it had to knock your power right off, right? Exactly. He was done. He said,
okay, guys, we get it. I'm done with this. You guys are committing all sorts of atrocities.
Yeah. We didn't even talk about the penis bone. I mean, I didn't even get to the back of them.
Yeah. Yeah, we haven't got, we're going to have to get to that at some point.
We'll talk about that with Bigfoot because I actually did a whole podcast about Bigfoot's
boner because I have post weird news needed it. And, you know, I'm here to, I'm here to help.
So yeah, but yeah, I think evolution is one of those things that we can see it all around us,
like I said, with COVID and even the flu. Like that's why every year you have to get a flu shot
because the flu has evolved. It has moved on to a different strain. And it's fascinating. I don't
know. So. Well, if you're watching this and you enjoyed, please go subscribe to Natalia's
YouTube channel. You can also watch, she does short form content over on Instagram. She's on
TikTok. And you also are doing all sorts of stuff. You've got a website people can go to.
What else can people do to join you, support you? Is there anything else?
I have a Patreon if you're interested, but even more exciting, I am hosting a trip to Madagascar
in May. So if you want to go on like a bucket list trip that's going to blow your mind,
I am leading a nine day trip to Madagascar. It's four different cities,
three different major lemurs, hot spots. We're going to go to Rana Mifana National Park, home to
over 12 species of lemur, fossa, the II, if you're familiar. And we're going to go to Anja
Community Reserve with ringtail lemurs, those charismatic kookmeisters. They're the big dancers,
same as Shafaks. And the last day will be at Lemurs Park, which is more of a sanctuary. And
they get a little bit more hands on, which I don't necessarily recommend because primates can be a
little wily, but it's going to be such a good time. So check it out. You can, if you go to my
link tree, which is I believe on my Instagram page, or if you just Google Madagascar Natalia
Reagan, you can find it and sign up. I have coupons too, which would, but wait, there's more,
I've got coupons. So it's going to be a great time. And I'll be lecturing a ton about lemur,
behavior, morphology, evolution. And yeah, highly recommend the group that's going so far is awesome.
Awesome. I hope you check it out. Go sign up. We should plan a myth vision tour one day where we
go meet up, figure out something, got to figure out something, but let her know in her comment
section when you go to her YouTube channel or anywhere you find her links, which are in the
description, go subscribe, go follow, do all that. Let them know that, or let her know that YouTube
myth vision sent you that you're here because of this interview. Oh, and I do end up comedy too. So
if you're in the LA area, I do a lot of science comedy stand up. So in New York City. So, and if
you want me to come to your town, just let me know. Just put it in the comments. That's awesome.
Okay, please like this video. Comment down below what you learned today. I love just
understanding more. I think also removes a guilt or a shame that we're taught and helps you learn
a new thing because you start realizing, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Maybe maybe we're maybe we're
wrong. Maybe we're going too far on certain things. And we're not saying monogamy is bad. We're not
saying people who are heterosexual bad. We're saying usually it's the people who are monogamous
and who are heterosexual who are judging the rest and saying this is the way things go. And
we're trying to break down that break the stigma. Is that the right word? Yeah, yeah, it's all
there's so many different ways to be a human. So yeah, just the more open you are about it,
trust me, the more fun it's going to be because variety is a spice of life. You don't have to
indulge in it, but it's right. Nice if other people can. Thank you, Natalia, for everything.
Any final words from you? Oh, well, just keep evolving because you really have no choice.
And be good to each other. Be good to each other. Thank you so much. And never forget, we are MythFishing.
