Mithraism and its influence on early Christianity.
I hope you guys enjoy this show.
Jason Giorgiannis has done a lot of research and he's delved into everything from the Persian
Mithras to Roman Mithraism and all the Mithraism as it influenced Christianity with Zoroastrianism.
A variety of different divine entities, apart from Jesus Christ, may have had serious influence
on Christianity as it developed throughout history and possibly even at its root.
Stay tuned, I have a sickness here.
Type A influenza is what I've been diagnosed with.
So as a good host, I'm trying to bring you guys material and non-stop material.
If you guys like this show and you like what I'm doing, please hit that subscribe button.
Don't forget to like this video.
Comment down below what you learned from this show and if you have any criticisms, put
those down in the comments too.
I look forward to hearing from you guys and thanks a lot for supporting what we do here
in Mithvision.
We are Mithvision.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, your host, Derek Lambert, Mithvision Podcast.
Today, I have a very important show I want to bring to you.
We have not discussed this topic yet.
You are going to want to stay tuned all the way to the end.
It's going to be full of information you've probably never heard of and a guest that you've
probably never heard of.
And if you have, make sure you chatter his name down in the comments section.
Show some love.
Hit that like button.
Jason, George, Jenny, how are you, my friend?
I'm good.
It's a pleasure to be with you, Derek.
You too.
Thank you for coming and joining me on the show.
You and me kind of sparked off a good conversation and I said, man, we're going to have like
more than one show with you on this program.
Oh, yeah.
Well, you know, I used to teach comparative religion, so I'm sure there's a lot of material
that we could cover in subsequent programs as well.
Yeah, you've definitely had a wealth of knowledge.
I remember seeing you on David Whitehead's show and I said, wow, this guy's full of information.
In fact, I didn't know much about Mithraism at all.
You know, I'm just a student.
I'm nobody of any scholar.
I'm just, I guess, a good vocal piece and good at uniting scholars and making communication
happen and I saw you and him and I said, man, I got to talk to this guy one day and here
we are.
Well, here we are.
Yeah.
Yes.
Are you involved in the martial arts?
Do you know David through martial arts or?
I don't.
But I wasn't jujitsu growing up and I'd done other things as well.
My father's actually green brain and special forces, so he retired recently.
Well, I don't know how you're going to take this, but you definitely look the type.
Thank you.
Yeah.
No, I always get the military discounts.
So it is what it is.
It's OK.
I was raised this way.
Back in the classical world, you would have belonged to one of the Mithraic brotherhoods.
Really?
Yeah.
Well, hey, you got to tell us something about them because I have, I still have very little
knowledge today when we look at Christianity or we look at, you know, Catholicism or even
Buddhism or Muslim faith, you know, Islam, we understand a little bit about what it is
and what it means.
And it seems like Mithraism, almost like you would look at like Zoroastrianism, people
don't know what that is.
What is Mithraism, Mithra?
What is the belief?
Can you give us a general outline of what that is and then we can go from there and its
influence into Christianity?
Sure.
So the first thing that a Christian would probably want to know about Mithraism is that
like Christianity, which as we're going to see was deeply influenced by it, Mithraism
is a savior religion that is structured around a teleological conception of time and history.
In other words, there is an apocalypse at the end of history.
And Mithra is a kind of savior figure.
And he's also both the God of light and of love.
So right away there you have a deep structural, well, I was about to say parallel, but really
what it is is a prototype for Christianity.
So in Iran, in the ancient period, there was a religion known as Zoroastrianism.
And Zoroastrianism became famous to Christians beginning with Saint Augustine because it
was pointed out by Christian theologians, particularly in the Catholic Church, that
Zoroastrianism did not face the problem of evil.
In other words, if you have an all-knowing and an all-powerful God, doesn't that take
free will away from humanity and doesn't it make God responsible for all the evil in
the world, right?
And the Christian theologians, particularly Saint Augustine, beginning with him and onward,
noted that Zoroastrianism, the religion of ancient Iran, did not face this problem.
Because you have two co-equal deities.
The good God, the God of light, the God of wisdom, the Lord of wisdom, is neither omnipotent
nor omniscient.
He is a force of creation and evolution and a progressive mentality, a progressive spirit
that you can align yourself with through your free choice.
But he's not all-powerful.
And so therefore, the evil of the world is safely attributable to a counter-deity, Ahriman,
a lord of deceit and darkness.
When you have this dualism on a metaphysical level and on a moral level, it's a lot clearer
than the dualism that we wound up taking shape in Christianity, largely under Zoroastrian
influence.
So in this context of the Zoroastrian worldview, there was a myth that the two gods, the good
God and the evil God, divided dominion over this earth through the course of several
successive epochs.
So they came to an agreement with one another that each of them would be the lord of this
world for a certain epoch, for a certain world age.
And the mediating figure which closes the contract between these two deities is Mithra.
Mithra was the God of oaths and contracts.
People would swear by Mithra whenever they entered into a contract with one another.
And Mithra basically seals the deal between Ahura Mazda, the good God, and Ahriman, the
evil deity with respect to what periods they're going to rule this world for until the end
of time, until the apocalypse.
And at the apocalypse in some ancient Iranian myths, Mithra is seen as the savior who manifests
in this world in order to preside over the last judgment, in order to offer people a
final choice between the forces of good and evil.
That's fascinating.
That sounds a lot like what we've been taught about Jesus in, of course, Christianity in
a lot of ways.
I'm sure there's differences.
And you know, people love to point those out and dwell on those because there's a lot
of scholars that, you know, I've been noticing who claim no parallels.
Oh, no, there's, there's no parallels.
And a lot of them, I think, take more of a historicity angle on Jesus.
So when they take a more real literal Jesus, of course, we're not able to parallel so much
to someone like Mithras or something else because, well, they have a real historical
Jew and they go, well, in Judaism, this is completely foreign.
So they look at Christianity and say, this is just a natural evolution of Judaism.
But doesn't Judaism borrow from Zoroastrianism and Mithraism?
And I mean, isn't this like, hey, yeah, it's, it's not at all a natural evolution.
So before we get into the numerous influences that Mithraism had on Christianity, let's
just back up a little bit and see how Judaism was radically transformed by Zoroastrianism
as a precursor to Christianity, late Judaism as a precursor to Christianity.
So if you pay close attention to the Torah, to the books of Moses, the first part of the
Tanakh or the Jewish Bible, the Old Testament, you'll see that there's no conception of
heaven. The afterlife is described as an underworld of shades, very similar to the
Hades idea of the Greeks. They have this underworld called Shul, which is the realm of
shades, the realm of the dead. And there's no, there's no distinction necessarily between
the lot of a righteous person and that of a sinner.
You also don't have this apocalyptic conception of history in early Judaism.
There's no sense that the world is unfolding through a successive series of ages that will
culminate in some revolutionary turn of events, some apocalypse after which we will live in
some kind of post-human condition. That is not authentic to Judaism, to early Judaism.
You also don't have the savior figure, the figure of the Mosheach, the coming savior
does not emerge in Judaism until after the Babylonian exile comes to an end, until after
Cyrus the Great, the founder of the Persian Empire, the founding father of Iran, you could
say, liberates the Jews from Babylon. So it's only after that that you see the idea of heaven
and hell emerge in Judaism. Only after that do you see a savior figure become part of
Jewish theology and only after that do you have a notion of teleological history, a goal-directed,
purposeful progression of history towards an apocalypse. And perhaps more importantly
than all of those things, if you pay close attention to Exodus, and this will piss off
a lot of evangelical Christians, but it's a fact, if you pay close attention to Exodus,
you see that there is no conception of individual conscience or personal righteousness. You are
judged based on the sins of your forefathers and ancestors, and you are rewarded based
on the righteousness of those in your bloodline who came before you. The God of the Torah,
of the books of Moses, does not judge people based on their individual conscience, and
he punishes people for misdeeds that are not their own. So the core of all Zoroastrianism,
the core of, well, frankly, both Zoroastrianism and Mithraism of ancient Iranian religion
in general is the idea of personal responsibility, individual conscience, free will. And so I
think this is another core idea of Christianity that emerges from out of the Persian influence
on Judaism, beginning with Cyrus the Great.
I should have started out asking if, are any of these things, these items written in your
books, and which books would you recommend people definitely check out, because I'd like
to do some further digging myself, and I've went on Amazon, it seems like you have like
six or seven different books on Amazon, if I'm not mistaken.
That's right, that's right. There are two books that focus primarily on Iran. And one of them,
the one that's most relevant to this discussion is Iranian Leviathan, which is subtitled a
monumental history of Mithra's abode, where I'm arguing that Mithraism is the red thread
through all of Iranian history, all the way even through the Islamic conquest and into
quote unquote Islamic mysticism. So in this book, Iranian Leviathan, I go on at length about the
creation of Judaism as we know it. And I argue that Judaism, as opposed to ancient Israelite
religion, Judaism is an Iranian creation. The kind of Judaism that then develops into Christianity
is already a creation of the Achaemenid priestly and royal elite, beginning about, you know,
530s, 550s to 530s AD. I mean, I'm sorry, BC. About 500 years before Christ, the Achaemenid royal
and priestly elite, the Magi, three of whom wind up at the birth of Jesus, the Magi together with
the royal family of the Achaemenids, basically reshape Judaism radically at the same time as
they integrate the Babylonian Jews into the administrative and economic structure of the
Persian Empire. So there's a full treatment of that subject in this book. Gotta get it. Definitely
get the book, go down in the description, make sure you guys get his material. And do you have,
is any of this stuff ebook too? Yeah, I think, I think almost all of my books are available in
an ebook Kindle format and Iranian Leviathan definitely is. Awesome, awesome. Okay, make sure
you guys check that out. I'm definitely going to do that and show him some love so we can have him
back on the show. So, Jason, this notion, and I don't want to get lost in the apocalypse, but
it fascinates me right now. It's something I definitely want to look into because
there are what are called preterist, and this is a theological movement, of course,
within Christendom, and there are what called full preterist. Now, anyone who watches my show
knows, Derek, that's such a minor, why do you bring them up all the time? Guys, this was my
deconstruction from Christianity. So, I kind of bring up what's relevant to me. I was looking at
the New Testament, and over and over and over, I would find these places which gave these time
statements that the end was supposed to happen like soon. I mean, the resurrection from the dead,
the apocalypse, the whole nine, and the way that we as full preterist defended Jesus is we said,
well, it did happen. It just, it didn't happen the way that everybody was thinking it was supposed
to happen. There was no earth consuming fire. It was the temple. The resurrection from the
dead was most likely spiritual, even though there's some that literally believe like all
the saints were physically resurrected and somehow gathered into the sky. They're more
fundamentalist than anyone I know. We took more of a spiritual approach to try and get around that,
and everything we did, we tried to say, well, he said it was supposed to happen soon. We believe
it did happen soon, so we try to find a way around it. This apocalypse, this end of time,
end of history notion, that it shouldn't be interpreted that way, right? Wouldn't you correctly
say that it would be like, this is supposed to be the actual end or? Yes, that's right. And it's
an entirely Iranian idea. This idea does not appear in any culture, anywhere in world history,
before it appears in the teachings of Zarathustra, at least about 600 BC in Iran. And it's the idea of,
as you put it, a world consuming fire. It's called Freschgard in Persian, which means, you know,
Persian is related to the European languages. There's a language family called Indo-European or
the Aryan languages. And so Persian is not at all related to Arabic grammatically or to any of the
Semitic languages like Hebrew. Persian is like a European language. And so Freschgard, you can hear
the word Fresch in it, Freschgard. It means the freshening of the world, the refreshening of the
world. And now chemical fire that consumes the whole earth and transmutes it into a perfected form,
namely the kingdom of God. That is a Zoroastrian idea that is from at least 600 BC. And it's what
you see Jesus quoting when he says, you know, I've come to bring fire upon the earth,
and so on and so forth, when he describes this conflagration at the end of history.
Interesting, because this is what I've been going back on now that I've deconstructed,
is like, hey, well, what if this whole thing's wrong? What if I'm wrong about some of this stuff?
Or what if I thought wrong? And I'm doing that with a lot of different things. And
Mithraism, I've heard a lot of scholars try to push that down, and they try to equate this
comparison between Mithraism and Christianity is equal to saying Jesus is Horus, and then they
throw everything out of the bus, say it's all zeitgeist, and you're trying to do the zeitgeist
movie thing. Do you want to take us down the path of how Mithraism, not only you showed that it
influenced Judaism, but how it goes from Judaism and influences Christianity and in what ways?
So I mean, Zoroastrianism, really, you could say influenced Judaism more, although, and this is
going to get it just for a moment a little bit complicated, but I refer people to my book,
although the main ideas that you see in late Judaism
have their prototype in Zoroastrianism. I make a fairly rigorous argument in Iranian Leviathan
that the people in the Persian imperial elite who transformed Judaism in that way were themselves
Mithraists. Like, for example, Cyrus the Great, he has a Mithraic solar lotus engraved on his tomb,
and he left instructions for Mithraic horse sacrifices to take place on a regular basis
at his tomb. So there's evidence that Cyrus himself was a Mithraist, and you can also see
evidence that Xerxes and subsequent Achaemenid monarchs were Mithraists. In any case, although
some of these core ideas in late Judaism are Zoroastrian in origin, as Judaism transitions
into Christianity, you're dealing with a period in Iranian history where Mithraism became dominant.
It became the de facto state religion. In the Achaemenid Empire, in the First Persian Empire,
Zoroastrianism wasn't the official state religion, but it was kind of the de facto
religion of Iran. Whereas by the time of Jesus, we're in the Parthian period in Iran. The Parthian
dynasty were an offshoot of these northern Iranian barbarians who were a lot like Vikings,
and they came down and took over the legacy of the Persian Empire, resuscitated Iran
after hundreds of years of Greek colonization, and these Parthians were Mithraists. So from about
200 years before Christ, about 180 or so before Christ, you had Mithraism become dominant in Iran,
and Iran starts to fight a series of wars with the Roman Empire. These wars are not only taking
place on the battlefield, they're also taking place in the psychological realm. It's a psychological
war as much as it's a military confrontation. And in particular, the Iranians had a Black Ops
Navy in the Mediterranean known as the Cilician Pirates. These are the first people to fly the
skull and the cross bones in history. And I'll come in a moment to what that symbol means and how
it's relevant to Christianity because the cross bones are the cross, or what becomes the cross
in Christianity. At any rate, these Cilician Pirates got in league with the aristocratic houses in
Roman port cities, and they converted them to Mithraism and then had them influence the religious
shift of the Roman Empire toward Mithraism, which was so successful that by the time Constantine
institutionalizes Christianity in the 320s, Mithraism was on the verge of becoming the de facto
religion of the Roman Empire. We know that because only less than a generation after Constantine
Julian the Apostate attempts to reverse Constantine's decision and as an initiate of Mithraism tries to
institutionalize Mithraism. So Constantine's institutionalization of Christianity was a
protective measure to make sure that the Roman Empire, which is Iran's rival superpower,
does not wind up converting to an Iranian religion. So to back up, you have this whole
military and cultural context where Mithraism is attempting to conquer the Roman Empire at the
time of Christ. And when you look at some of the key rituals and symbols of Christianity,
particularly in the Roman Catholic Church, you see what a deep impact Mithraism had on Christianity,
beginning with the birth of Christ, beginning with Christmas. The archaeological, not archaeological,
but the historical evidence that we have to the extent that we have any that would give us an
indication of when Jesus was born suggests sometime in the spring. But the date of December 21st
through 24th, 20th through 24th was the winter solstice celebration in Mithraism. So Mithra
is born of a virgin, of a virgin mother, on the winter solstice. Okay, he's the god of light
and his birth is the birth of the light at the winter solstice. The color scheme associated with
Christmas and the Christmas tree are also Mithraic in origin. The red, white, and green color scheme,
or rather the white, red, and green color scheme, comes from the colors of the three casts in
Mithraism. The priestly or royal cast, white, the warrior cast, which is red, and the farmers or
agriculturalists, which are green, represented by the green color. And you see this color scheme
on the flags of all the countries that were once Mithraic, that were once within the sphere of
Iranian civilization, Iran, Tajikistan, the Kurds in Iraq, and Syria, Bulgaria also. And I think that
even the Italian color scheme of red, white, and green is a legacy of the dominance of Mithraism
in the Roman Empire. Mithra was also worshiped in the form of an evergreen tree. The Iranian
the Iranians represented truth as a sarv or cypress, the form of evergreen most prevalent throughout
Iran. And they would they would take an evergreen tree together with its roots and offer gifts to
the tree. And so the evergreen tree is also another symbol of Mithraism. Almanita muscaria
mushrooms, which are red and white in their pattern, grow around evergreen trees. And the
Almanita muscaria mushroom was used to spike wine that was that was part of a communion ceremony
celebrated by Mithrists. So the Mithrists before Christians had a communion celebration, where
they drank wine spiked with Almanita mushrooms to induce kind of, you know, transcendental state.
In some cases out of body experience. And in those communion ceremonies, they ate wafers,
circular wafers of bread inscribed by a cross. Okay, so this is centuries before Christianity.
Now, let me tell you what the cross stands for. So I had mentioned the skull and the crossbones,
the flag of the Cilician pirates who were a black ops navy of Iran, working in the Mediterranean
to spread Mithraism into the port cities of the Roman Empire. The cross on the skull and cross
bones, which is also the cross on the communion wafer that these people ate. The cross symbolizes
the crossing of the celestial equator by the ecliptic of the zodiac. So, you know, in astrology,
you have the the equator of the earth extended out into the star globe. And then at an angle to that,
it's crossed by the zodiac by the circle of the zodiacal constellations. And it forms an X like
this, separated by 23 degrees. And the reason that there's a skull over it in the Jolly Roger
is because this astrological realm governed by the planets and the zodiac is a realm of death.
It's a realm of time and death. And so that skull represents Kronos to put it in Greek terminology
or Saturn in Roman terminology, the god of time and death. And Mithra is supposed to stand outside
of the star globe and shift the entire sphere of the heavens, changing one astrological age into
another. Okay, so in those images of Mithra slaying the bull, which you saw in all of the
Mithraic temples of the Roman Empire, the Mithraeums, there's an image of a Mithra slaying a bull.
And that symbolizes the death of the age of Taurus and the rise of the age of Aries,
the age of the warrior. Okay, so it's a symbol of Mithra turning the entire star globe
in order to shift the astrological age from Taurus into Aries. And the deeper metaphysical
and ethical significance of that is that it's an overcoming of fate, because of course,
throughout the classical world, the stars and planets were seen as the governors of fate.
And so Mithra, identifying with Mithra, who stands outside the star globe and can shift the entire
heavens, is an emblem of the human will to self-determination and being able to break
out of stellar fate and become the master of your own destiny.
This is fascinating. I never thought about it like that. In fact, I didn't know this much about
all this stuff. The Skull and Crossbones, the whole nine, that's really interesting stuff.
And I wonder being that they utilize that on water as well. We see Jesus, of course, come on the
scene making fishers of men. There's just kind of sea stuff going on a lot. And it's funny because...
No, not get this. Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The vesica pisces. The vesica pisces symbol, right?
You're familiar with the Christian fish, quote, unquote? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, so if this bolslain
is a symbol of the transition between the age of Taurus and the age of Aries, it's not going to be
relevant anymore to the time of Christ. Mithraism was an astrological religion. At the time of Christ,
you're making a transition into the astrological age of Pisces. And so the Mithras would have needed
a new symbol. And so I suggest in Iranian Leviathan that these two circles then intersect each other
where their intersection forms the vesica, right? Which can be stylized as a fish. It is a symbol of
Mithra because the two spheres are Ahura Mazda and Ahuriman, the good and the evil deity. And
Mithra is the mediator, the intersection between the two of them. And it's also a fish symbol which
is appropriate to the coming astrological age of Pisces. So I think that this was a symbol that
the Mithras were adopting when the Taurus into Aries symbology had become no longer relevant.
And it was adopted from there into Christianity. I also think that when Jesus, long before he's
crucified, says things like, anyone who wants to follow me has to abandon their mother and their
father and they have to bear their cross as I do, is not referring to the cross that people were
executed on. He's referring to the cross of the celestial equator and the ecliptic of the zodiac.
He's talking about bearing time and death in the way that he does. It's an initiatic phrase.
I could also see why a, I guess you'd call it a modern doctrine being created during an age like
this because as you pointed out, the circles that go together and you have the mediator in the middle,
I could see a doctrine called the Trinity arising out of some type of symbol like that
and foreign to any previous age. I mean, not saying there wasn't probably dualistic concepts of
Yahweh, okay, where there's a Yahweh and there's a Yahweh, but I've never noticed a Yahweh, Yahweh,
and a Yahweh. And notice there's Trinity now, wouldn't you agree that they've got this probably from
somewhere like that or? Absolutely the case. Look, to have a Trinitarian theology, you first need
a dualistic theology, which was Zoroastrianism. And Mithraism is the Trinitarian response to
Zoroastrian dualism. And then that just, you know, is adopted lock stock and barrel by Christians.
I love this. This is wonderful. And by the way, if anyone is watching, I have all sorts of diseases.
No, I'm just kidding. I'm super sick with like type A flu, man. I can't even think clear, but
we talked about this and wanted to do this show. And I said, look, let's talk a little bit, if
possible, while we get into the Mithraism on your personal take on Jesus and the historicity,
if there was one. And, you know, whether you believe there is one or isn't, that's not what
Mithvisions is about. We're not a Methodist program, like you have to not believe in Jesus,
but we do love asking the question. And who is this guy? If there was one and things around him,
you brought up an interesting thing. Maybe we can head that way in some point with Apollonius
Italian, but maybe we deal with Jesus and build up to that. I don't know. No, I'm going to it right
now. Look, Mithra is the God of Light. Apollonius comes from the root Apollo, which was a solar
deity also, right? And Apollo and Mithra were often analogized with one another.
You know, the Greeks and the Romans had a lot of religious syncretism. They would analogize
their gods with one another. Like, for example, they saw the Egyptian Poth as Hermes, or, you know,
Aphrodite became Venus. So these gods were analogized. And often Mithra was analogized with
Apollo. So Apollonius by itself is a kind of Mithraic name, okay? And this Apollonius of Tiana figure
who Philistratus writes about has the same birth date as Jesus. He is a teacher from Syria.
Tiana is a place in Syria. He was sometimes referred to simply as the Tianian. And he will go around
to different parts of the Roman world and preach a mystical religion in the language of the local
community and in terms of symbols that they would understand. And one of the places where he went
was Judea, okay? He went to Roman Palestine. And he taught there, allegedly in Hebrew,
and Aramaic, okay? And using symbols and myths that would have been familiar to the Jews in order
to present his esoteric doctrine. And guess what? He winds up being condemned to crucifixion as a
result of this, okay? So his birth date matches Jesus. The content of his teaching on a lot of
points overlaps with the esoteric doctrine of Christianity. And then he winds up being
condemned to crucifixion after performing a whole bunch of miracles in Roman Palestine,
which include resurrecting somebody from the dead. Does he, does he actually get crucified? Now,
I know he lived during the same time as crucifixion. And he escapes, now what's interesting is what
happens after he escapes crucifixion because there are Eastern legends that are believed by many
Muslims about how Jesus escaped death on the cross and went through Persia and wound up in Northern
India where he settled down in Kashmir and where to this day some claim that his tomb is in Kashmir.
And this is the story that Philistratus tells us about Apollonius of Tiana, that he goes through
the Persian Empire, he deals with the Magi for a while, has debates with them in their fire temples,
and ultimately settles down in Northern India and lives to a ripe old age and is buried there.
Now, the interesting thing about Apollonius of Tiana is that he was a widely revered figure in
the Roman Empire in the late first and the second century in particular AD. There were statues of
this guy all over the place. And yet we have very little historical evidence for Jesus outside of
the Bible. There's quite a bit of evidence for Apollonius of Tiana, but there's not a lot of
evidence for Jesus. The evidence for Apollonius of Tiana though is more prominent in the second
century AD. And if I'm not mistaken, Julia Domna, the wife of Empress Septimius Severus,
who was a Syrian woman herself, had Philistratus commissioned to write the life of Apollonius
of Tiana late in the second century AD. Does this mean that Jesus was really Apollonius of Tiana,
that his followers in Roman Palestine made a cult out of the Jewish version of his teaching,
that they transformed him into a kind of Jewish prophet? Is Apollonius being mistaken for Jesus
Christ or is something more interesting than that going on? Namely the creation of a mythic
savior figure on the one hand by Jews and on the other hand by Roman pagans simultaneously
parallel to one another. And what this would show is the sociological need for such a figure
in that period of classical history. Fascinating. This, and that intrigues me because I could see,
if they parallel so well, how I could honestly see how over time they could adopt such a position
or such a view if they once held to one that was very similar to it. If Apollonius became less and
less favored and for whatever reason the Jewish story became more favorable, because I think
monotheism, if I'm not mistaken, became more of a prettier view over time to a lot of people.
They kind of had this interest into the one God concept, if I'm not mistaken. They saw something
good. I'll tell you what I think happened. And you know, again, I discussed this at length in
the Iranian Leviathan. It's actually one of the most controversial parts of the book.
About 200 AD, the 220s AD, there was a man from a priestly, a priestly,
what do you call it, clan. Clan would be the right word. A man from a priestly clan in Iran,
in Persia proper, Parse, the Parse province of Iran, which is why the Greeks refer to all of Iran
as Persia, the capital district of the ancient Persian empire. There was a man from a priestly
clan in Parse called Ardeshir Babakon, who after this, you know, four century dominance of Mithraism
wanted to re-institutionalize orthodox Zoroastrianism. He actually came up with an orthodox
theological doctrine for Zoroastrianism when none had really existed up to that point.
And this Ardeshir Babakon first carries out a coup inside Iran to take control of the state,
and then he announces in his intention to retake the entire Eastern Roman Empire for Iran.
So, you know, the Eastern Roman Empire, in other words, the Middle East from Iraq,
current contemporary Iraq, all the way through to Egypt, had been a part of the first Persian empire.
And this guy, coming from out of the heart of Persia, the Persian heart of Iran, Parse,
he wants to form another Persian empire to retake all of that Roman territory.
And the people in those days living in Egypt, Iraq, Syria, well, Iraq was part of
Parse in Iran, but Syria, Egypt, Jordan, and Roman Palestine, Lebanon, were all pagans.
I mean, there were believers in different pagan religions, right? And here's this guy
who's an orthodox Zoroastrian. He's an ultra monotheist, and he wants to come in,
and this is a very important point. In Iran itself, he went around and he shut down all the
Parthian temples. He thought they were too pagan. He shut down all the Mithraic fires.
Okay, he turned off all the fires of the Mithraic fire temples, and did God knows what to their
libraries, because we have very little Mithraic literature from Parthian Iran. So, this puritanical
orthodox monotheist has his sights set on the Eastern Roman Empire. And I think what wound up
happening is that the Roman elites realized that if this guy had done to Mithraism what he did
in his own country, and used Mithraism in order to reinstitutionalize Zoroastrianism,
in other words, to transform Mithraism back into Zoroastrianism through a top-down
theocratic totalitarianism, he would be able to do the same thing in Rome if Mithraism became the
dominant religion of the Roman Empire. And this would be an absolutely suffocating atmosphere
for people who are believers in all of these pagan cults, and who generally had a humanistic and
cosmopolitan society. Okay, so the Roman elite, I think, realized that they needed the functional
equivalent of Zoroastrian monotheism in order to defend against Iran, and they didn't have any
religion like that in Rome. So, they took Judaism, which was, you know, going in a monotheistic
direction, and which was extremely hierarchical and, you know, more totalitarian than any pagan
Roman religion, they took Judaism and they fused it with elements of the Mithraism that was rising
to become the de facto religion of Rome. And it's from out of that fusion that Christianity emerges
in the form in which we recognize it today, rather than, say, the Gnostic forms that were
stamped out by the early church. That brings another question. So, this is second century, right?
What do you do with the first century? Third, second into third century. Okay, okay. So, like,
say there's some people who are listening who, because I try to bring you to their minds,
let's say there's some, I guess you'd say they're more, what's the text of the New Testament teaching
kind of people? Now, they would come on, I know some people who would say, listen, this is a Jewish
religion, right? And the New Testament, even though it's very paganized compared to maybe
some of the Old Testament, it looks like it's mystery school type teaching stuff. It's done
something completely different than the Old, but they would suggest that the whole New Testament,
even when it talks about the Gentiles, these Gentiles are probably scattered Israelites.
Have you ever considered that notion that the Gentiles? I think they're idiots, I'm sorry to say,
because, look, first of all, what do you mean by Judaism? Right. To go back to what we were
talking about earlier, if you look at the five books of Moses, if you look at the doctrine that's
in Genesis and Exodus and God help us all Leviticus, it is diametrically opposed to the
teaching of Jesus. At least, unless you want to consider Jesus as schizophrenic, there are times
when he says that I'm not come to abolish the law. I've come basically to fulfill the law.
If you want to believe that Jesus said that, then he was a schizophrenic
or had multiple personality disorder, but if you want to form some kind of a coherent esoteric
teaching from out of the sayings of Jesus in the Gospels and the New Testament generally,
you would have to say that it's diametrically opposed to the revelation of Yahweh and Exodus
and Leviticus and so forth. Now, how do we get from that ancient Israelite religion to Christianity?
Well, we go through late Judaism. We go through the Judaism that evolved after the Babylonian
exile, after Cyrus the Great basically became the Messiah of the Jewish community. You know,
he's the only Gentile that's referred to as the Messiah by the Jews. Cyrus the Great is the first
non-Jew, the first Aryan, frankly, Goyim, who is referred to as Mosheach. And so Cyrus,
beginning with Cyrus, the Achaemenid royal elite sort of become the patrons of the Jews, but
this is at the very least a two-way relationship that leads to the total transformation of Judaism.
And so this late messianic, more humanistic, more cosmopolitan Judaism that, you know,
paves the way for Christianity is already not Jewish. It's already deeply influenced by
Indo-European paganism. Let's put it that way, both Iranian and European. Okay. And so I think
people who try to interpret Jesus as a Jewish prophet, as just another Jewish prophet,
are totally off the mark. I think the Gospel of John really tells you that. I mean, anyone who
claims to be the bread, the life-giving bread, you know, he claims a much higher status than
anything you ever read anywhere within Tanakh. Well, yeah. And in John, I mean, Jesus clearly says
that Yahweh is Satan. If you ask me, I mean, when he says, you know, your father was a liar from
the beginning, he was a murderer and a liar from the beginning when he's telling a bunch of Jews
this, who are, you know, condemning him for being an apostate. And he says, your father was a murderer
and a liar from the beginning. First of all, he's using the kind of language that Zarathustra
uses to refer to Ahrim on the Great Deceiver. And he's using it to refer to Yahweh. And this is
totally consistent with the Gnostic Gospels. You know, there are tens of Gnostic Gospels that were
rejected when the New Testament was canonized by the Catholic Church, by the circle around
Constantine. They rejected tens of Gospels. And the one canonical Gospel that really deeply
overlaps with these rejected Gnostic Gospels, like Thomas is John, the Gospel of John.
Wow. Man, that was, that's pretty deep. I've heard that actually from a couple different scholars,
too, that actually agree with that notion. And this kind of goes into Martianism somewhat.
Martianite Christianity, which says, forget the Old Testament. And that's, it's interesting that
someone would come on and say, eh, it's a good book at all, you know, for them, but we don't need that.
That's, that's something that has nothing to do with us. So I find that quite fascinating. And
jumping back to what you were talking about in the second, third century, why they would utilize
this, what's called Christianity, not called Judaism, called Christianity, is used to defend
themselves against this Zoroastrian rise is probably why at the end of the day, Constantine
makes it the state religion. Because if I'm not mistaken, was it Eusebius that lies and pretends
Constantine was hardcore Christian, Christian. And then later on, he's like, yeah, the guy was a pagan
and you know, and he was, what's going on? It was a strategic move. It was a question of national
security. You can't very well look, I mean, it was fine when the Persians and the Romans were fighting
each other, or rather the Parthians and the Romans were fighting each other. When, when Iran was
Mithraist, because the Mithraists were not going to come in and destroy all the pagan
temples or radically alter the character of Roman society, they were as cosmopolitan and
humanistic as the Romans. But once you have this Orthodox theocrat out of the Shir Babakon, attempting
to institutionalize some kind of new, radically monotheist and very conservative form of Zoroastrianism,
your faith, the Roman pagans are facing an existential threat. Roman society is facing an
existential threat. And so they need to put up a dam against this cultural infiltration.
Okay, so therefore they, they have to amalgamate Judaism with elements of Mithraism in order
to create Christianity as a cultural barrier. And you know, when we look at some of the key
rituals of the Catholic Church, we see, you know, how prevalent Mithraism must have been and, and
how much these aristocratic framers of, of early Christianity felt the need to
appropriate elements of Mithraism into Christianity in order to make it successful,
in order to have it be a successful social engineering project. So another example is,
you know, the Ash Wednesday ceremony where they put the Ash and Cross on their foreheads,
the Catholics do. This comes from the ritual of the third grade of initiation into Mithraism,
which is the grade of the soldier. And in the grade of the soldier, the initiate is offered a crown
on the point of a sword. And he takes the crown and he first puts it on his head,
then he removes the crown and throws it on the ground. And he says, my crown is my lord,
Mithras is my crown, meaning that he's a soldier of Christ. And then the initiator slaps his face
like they do in the Catholic Church, slaps his face like they do in Confirmation.
And then he puts an Ash and Cross on his forehead. And the Ash represents that burning of the world
at the end of time, the Frashgav, the transformation of everything, including yourself into your
perfected form. And the Cross again is the, you know, the eclectic crossing, the celestial equator.
So that Ash Wednesday Cross and the idea of being a soldier of Christ come from initiatic
rituals of Mithraism. You know, also the hat of the bishops, the meter of the bishops is a
Phrygian cap. It's that, you know, the Smurf hat with the, you know, the cap that flaps over,
right? This was the cap that Mithra wears in all of the sculptures of Mithra slaying the bull
and in other depictions of Mithra. He wears a Phrygian cap and it's red. And this is where
the meter of the bishops comes from. And it's also, frankly, where the Santa Claus hat comes from.
The entire Santa outfit with the red pants and the jacket tied with a belt is a Mithraic
riding outfit. The Iranians invented pants. They were the greatest horseback riders in ancient
history. The Parthians, who institutionalized Mithraism in particular, were known as the greatest
horsemen of the ancient world. So they're the ones who invented riding pants. You know, the
Greeks and the Romans went around in togas. Pants came to Europe from Iran and so did vests,
so did jackets. And in particular, the Mithras wore these red riding pants and jackets tied
with a belt and the Phrygian cap. So the Santa Claus outfit is just straight out of Mithraism.
They were bringing presents everywhere, man. So let me ask a, I guess a progressive
question. I think it's important because we didn't plan this one, but you got me journeying in my
mind and following you historically and why these things are. And I know this is a little jump,
but I have to ask about Islam, you know, the Muslim faith, Islam. And this, there's a reason
it comes on the scene from what I was told. And I'm just going to give a very minimal and then,
boom, I want you to take over. According to what I was told is these were people who did not have
a distinguishing religion that separated them from the other world. So they decided they were just
going to, you know, have a religion like the rest of these other great societies, etc., etc. However,
I don't know how true that is. So what's going on with that faith and does that evolve out of
some of this stuff? Okay, now you've asked me a question, the answer to which is really going to
piss a lot of people off. In this book, the most controversial thesis that I set forth has to do
with the creation of Islam. And it's a very complex argument, but to put it in a nutshell,
you remember this Orthodox theocrat out of the sheer Bob back on who wants to institutionalize
Zoroastrianism again in Iran, right? Well, to do this, he begins a program of inquisitorial
doctrinal conformism that lasts for hundreds of years. The model for the inquisition in the
Roman Catholic Church comes from the Zoroastrianism of what's called the Sasanid period out of the
sheer Bob back on. He brought the Sasanid royal family to power and their reign lasted from the
220s AD to 651 when the Arab Muslim armies invaded and conquered Iran. Okay, so during the Sasanid
period, the Orthodox Zoroastrian clergy carried out an inquisitorial campaign against all of their
religious rivals against everyone who they considered a heretic. And this included Manicheans.
We can have a whole other show on that sometime, by the way, it'd be interesting. Manicheanism
and Christianity, but that's a whole other question. Manicheans were targeted by him
by the leaders of this inquisition, particularly a priest named Karthir. Manicheans were targeted,
Buddhists were targeted, and the Mithras above all were targeted. People who believed in Ahura
Mazda and Ahuriman, like Zoroastrians do, but did not believe in them in the way that was being
mandated by out of the sheer Bob back on in his Orthodox theology. People who believed like,
let's say that Mithra is a mediating figure who can affect the transcendence of good and evil,
who can take an initiate to a degree of consciousness that is beyond the dichotomy
between the Lord of Light and the Lord of Darkness. So these kinds of people were targeted as arch
heretics by the Sasanid Orthodoxy, by the Zoroastrian Orthodoxy and the Sasanian period.
And to make a very long story short, eventually what happened was after a group of these Mithras
staged a coup and took over the government for about 30 years, there was a brutal crackdown on
them by the Zoroastrian Orthodoxy and hundreds of thousands of people were killed. The number
given is 100,000 against the background of the population of that time, which scaled up to a
percentage of today's population would be millions of people. So there was this brutal massacre,
there were mass book burnings, their scriptures were torched, very similar to the persecution of
the Gnostics in Alexandria by the early Catholic Church, or later the Inquisition against the
Cathars in the south of France by the Catholic Church. The model for those kinds of persecutions
is really what the Sasanid Zoroastrian Orthodoxy did to the Mithras in Iran. And these Mithras were
occultists, they operated through secret societies, and remember Mithrism was a quintessentially
military religion. So they had knights sworn in the service of Mithras. So it's not as if after
facing this kind of massacre, these Mithras are just going to sit on their hands, right? I mean,
you expect some kind of retaliation from them. Well, what I suggest in Iranian Leviathan is that
the Mithraic secret societies retaliated by creating Islam, and they sent a military
intelligence operative down to Arabia to brainwash this guy called Mohammed. He established a business
relationship with Mohammed's wife, insinuated himself into Mohammed's circle, and then began to
mind control Mohammed. And on orders from his handlers in Iran, he put the Oronic doctrine into
the mind of Mohammed and used it to unify the Arabian tribes into a spearhead directed at
the Sasanid state. And the point was not to create some world religion, the point was to
temporarily unify the Arabian tribes who are extremely fractious, fragmented, you know,
unify them through a monetizing ideology that would suit the temperament of these tribal
desert Arabs so that they could come in as a kind of fifth column, as a kind of mercenary force
to shatter the Sasanid hold on power in Iran and bring the Parthian feudal families back into
control and allow Mithraism to flourish in Iran again. But the thing got out of control, like a
biological weapon that gets out of a laboratory, and all of a sudden you see, you know, you know,
like what might be happening in Wuhan right now. Oh gosh, this biological weapon, which was designed
for a certain purpose, gets out of control. And, you know, or like a cancer that metastasizes,
it winds up having an effect that you didn't anticipate. And what I suggest in Iranian Leviathan
is that, you know, Islam, I mean, this really, this, this getting out from under the control of
the Mithraic elite really happens in two phases. First of all, the Arabs wind up getting drunk on
the power that they grasp as they invade Iran. They were supposed to basically do a hit job on the
Sasanid state, and instead they became intoxicated with their power and attempted to control more
of Iran than they were ever supposed to. But then after their power is checked, and you have a
renaissance of the arts and sciences in Iran, and you have frankly the zenith of all of Iranian
civilization take place in the 900s, 100s AD, what people call the golden age of Islam,
has nothing to do with Islamic theology in a positive sense. 90% of those scientists of that
period, like Omar Khayyam, Razi, Ebnazina, Khorazmi, these people are all Persians, okay? So this is a,
it's a Persian renaissance taking place in the 800s, well really 900s, 100s AD,
in both the sciences and in the arts, with literature like, you know, the Persian book of kings,
the Shah Nome of Ferdoci being composed at that time. So the Arabs are gotten sort of back under
control. The Caliphate, the Arabian Caliphate in Baghdad is turned into a vassal of a Persian feudal
house, the Bouyad house based in northern Iran, turns the Arabian Caliphate into its vassal.
So things kind of go back to program, you know, back to the original Parthian program.
And the people who were dominant in northern Iran during this renaissance were descendants of these
Parthian feudal families. But then what happens? Around 1150, middle of the 12th century, the
Turks come in, followed by the Mongols. Around 1100 to 1200, you have two successive waves of
barbarian invasion of Iran coming from out of Central Asia, from out of, you know, western China,
northwestern China. And these are the Turks and the Mongols who are closely related. And these
people are illiterate, you know, half-savage barbarians with an incredibly bloodthirsty
culture. And the elements of Islam that were tailored to suit the tribal Arabian mentality
really appeal to these Turks and Mongols. And they adopt Islam sincerely and become evangelists
for it. And these are the people who then formed the Seljuk Caliphate and the Mongol Hanates in
order to ultimately institutionalize Islam in what was the Persian Empire. So that's really
how it gets out of control. The Parthian elite, I argue, did not anticipate the Turkic and Mongol
invasions of Iran and the way in which this ideology would act on the psychosocial system of
the Central Asian barbarians. This is an awesome history lesson. Do you, um, do you have anything
you can add pertaining to, like, the apocalyptic approach in terms of Muslim faith? Did they have
a similar Zoyashtrian or Mithraic apocalypse idea of the earth? Did they... Yeah, well, it's coming
from Zoroastrianism again. You know, the, uh, first of all, you know, the Ghoran claims to be the
completion of the message of the Torah and of the Bible. So if it's gonna, I mean, of the Gospels,
and so if it's going to complete the message of the Gospels, it's going to have this,
this idea of the apocalypse by default, right? So, you know, now that you have that emerging
late Judaism and then it becomes, uh, it becomes canonical to the New Testament, you have to have
this idea in the Ghoran, if it's going to claim to be the completion of the Abrahamic revelation.
But, uh, I think that, you know, that apocalyptic vision that you have in Islam, particularly,
is, uh, prominent in Shiite Islam, is also another indication of the direct, um, Iranian, uh,
engineering of Islam. Uh, the fact that Salman Farsi, Salman the Persian, the handler of Muhammad,
was operating as an agent of these Mithraic secret societies. He introduced this, uh, you know,
apocalyptic vision of history into the doctrine of the Ghoran, um, which many people around Muhammad,
at the time, claimed was being engineered by this Persian. They, they, you know, there were a lot
of people in Muhammad's entourage who were accusing Muhammad of being mind controlled by this Persian.
I think it's funny that in one, and I don't know if this has any influence, but I remember reading,
uh, in the Quran, Muhammad comes around some polytheist at some point and he acts like they're
all A-okay, like everything's cool, don't worry, you're all good. And then, haha, I got a revelation
from Allah, you're not, these guys aren't cool no more. Satan took over my tongue or my mind or
something. And, uh, I know Christians, the reason why I knew this is Christians were debating Muslims
all the time. They're like, do you really believe in a prophet that claims that the devil could take
over his mind and you still believe he's telling the truth? So do you think that has any influence
in where you're talking about this whole mind control thing? It has a lot of influence because
Muhammad wasn't in his right mind when he was composing the Ghoran. Uh, it's, it's very obvious
if you study Islam, uh, if you study the Ghoran and the Hadith, the traditions of the prophet,
that this man would recite the Ghoran in a trans-medium state, he did not know what he was
saying. Uh, there are parts in the Ghoran where all of a sudden the revelation breaks off
and, uh, God comes in like over the radio channel and says, oh, don't move your lips so fast to try
to memorize this right now, Muhammad. If you ever need any of this later, I'll just send it again.
And then it goes back to the revelation. Okay. So Muhammad is always referred to in the Ghoran
in the third person. In other words, when this guy mentions himself, he's mentioning himself
as if he's someone other than himself. The Ghoran is recited in Allah's voice. It's,
it's expounded in Allah's voice. And so Muhammad is channeling something and occasionally there's
a break in the channeled information where, you know, instead of revealing the Ghoran,
God gives a special message directly to Muhammad. All right. Uh, so you got a guy who is the equivalent
of the trans-mediums studied by psychical researchers or parapsychologists in the late 1800s
or early 20th century. That's what he would have been classified as if he were living in a, in the
modern age, a trans-medium. So he doesn't know where this stuff is coming from. In other words,
if the devil hacks the channel and comes on instead of Allah at one point, you know,
well, yeah. Okay. Okay. Uh, bringing this back to real quick on a reference, I think is important.
We talk about Paul being a liar, right? A lot of times on our channel, we discuss this idea that
the church likes to pass over. Paul's constantly defending himself as saying, I am not a liar.
I am not a liar. I'm not, I'm not a liar. And why is he doing that other than being accused of
being a liar, whoever this guy Paul is? Did, and I wanted to ask you briefly on the Muslims,
okay, or Islam, if you will, and maybe even Muhammad and their thoughts of Paul, because you
said the gospels. See, they like agree with the gospels other than the fact they don't believe
Jesus was really crucified. They think Simon or Judas or someone else took his place.
Do they think Paul's a heretic? They don't, they don't, they don't like Paul if I'm not mistaken.
I'm sure that's the case because, and in point of fact, yes, many of them preach against Paul, but
on a deeper, uh, intrinsic doctrinal level, that is going to be the case because if you look at,
I mean, I'd mentioned how the gospel of John overlaps with the Gnostic gospels very deeply.
The other major point of overlap between the canonical New Testament and the Gnostic gospels
is Paul. Paul is very Gnostic, and so by comparison to the rest of the New Testament. And so,
for that reason, you know, he's going to be rejected by Muslims.
Easy said, easy said. Awesome. So we've touched practically on Judaism, Christian unity.
Let me just briefly make a note on something. Yeah, please.
Paul, because I, you know, I said that as if the meaning of it would be self-evident to your audience,
but it might not be. It's because of the Antonomian character of Paul's teaching. Paul is notorious
in the New Testament for essentially taking the view that through faith in Christ, the law is
abrogated. Okay. So there are Christians like the majority of the evangelicals who try to reconcile
Jesus' teaching with the Old Testament moral code. Whereas in Paul, you really get the sense that
once you embody the spirit of Christ, the law is dead to you. Okay. And Muslims, Orthodox Muslims
would vociferously reject this because, of course, Sharia, Sharia law, right, is the bedrock of
Orthodox Islam, of, you know, all the Sunni schools of Islam. Now, in Shiite Islam, there is a minority
esoteric view, which at one point was dominant when the order of assassins took over Iran in the
1100s. And they tried to push back against these Turks and fight the Mongols. When the order of
assassins took over in Iran, they had a teaching very similar to the Antonomian Pauline teaching,
that at the apocalypse, the Sharia would be negated. And they believed that the apocalypse was now.
The leaders of the order of assassins said that it was the end of the world. And so that
everyone was released from adherence to the Sharia. So there was a kind of an Antonomian character
to that form of Shiite Islam, to that mystical form of Shiite Islam, which the assassins preached,
which is so Antonomian that it's essentially anarchist. And that's the one point of convergence
you have in Islamic theology with Paul and with Gnostics that are even more Antonomian than Paul.
Sorry, I think that goes for Judaism, you know, Jews as well as Muslims, because I always tell
people, you know, what makes one an Israelite based on the biblical narrative isn't just are you a
descendant of Abraham? I mean, yeah, that's, that's obviously something to look for. But,
you know, if you use even one of Paul's own arguments, not all who are Israel are of Israel,
you know, that there's this idea that there's people within the tribes of Israel to be an
actual obedient servant, to be an actual Israelite is to be obedient to Torah or be obedient to God's
law circumcision foremost. And Paul goes right to the heart of that and removes it. That to me is
like saying, that's like saying today where I'm at, I mean, I was raised by a dad who's a Green
Beret and the Special Forces. Okay, he was seventh group, you know, I had a lot of pride growing up,
like we were raised to have a lot of pride and freedom, you know, and all that kind of stuff.
And that's like someone who just comes on the scene out of nowhere with all the American heritage
that I have. It says, listen, screw the flag. Okay, screw the the the Pledge of Allegiance. Listen,
you don't need any of that. Screw all this stuff. Okay, literally, put this Santifa mask on. Okay,
and join me in the rally in the streets. This is what a real American is. It's the spirit of
America, freedom of thought and religion. Come join me. And I'm going to look at them sideways and go,
honestly, like, you look a little bit like you're kind of an anarchist type Nazi, so to speak, man.
And it's hard for me to to see how that's freedom, you know, and that's what America represents. So
Paul seems to do something radical, kind of like that. And I'm not a political guy. I mean,
you know, this is in philosophy, we would say that's an analogy of form. It's an analogy in form.
But you're dealing with very different content there, because what the, you know, what this flag
here, you know, stands for versus the kind of Israelite culture that Paul was preaching against,
are diametrically opposed to one another. You can't find two more and this is a problem with
the evangelical Christians in this country. You cannot find two more diametrically opposed
worldviews than the worldview of Leviticus and the worldview of the Constitution of the United States
of America. And the founders knew this, by the way. I mean, the founders, not to go depart too far
from Mithraism, but I guarantee you, the founders would have all been good Mithras if they were
back in the Roman Empire. And the founders of this country, they knew very well that the
Constitution was not compatible with the Old Testament. And, you know, even in terms of the
New Testament, Thomas Jefferson took a pair of scissors to the Bible and he cut out only those
things Jesus said that he liked, that kind of sounded like Soman philosophy and he glued them
all together into the Jefferson Bible. That was all he thought was worth salvaging even from the
New Testament, let alone the Old Testament. And the only one of the founders who had the balls
to say that all this stuff publicly was Thomas Paine, who, you know, in the rites of man and the
age of reason, goes on at length about how the constitutional principles of the United States
are not compatible with the Bible. And the rest of them all got furious at him for saying that,
but they all believed it privately themselves. It's one of the reasons why Benjamin Franklin,
you know, knew that he could never run for president because he could never pay lip service to
Christianity the way that some of his colleagues have at any rate. So your analogy is a formal,
good formal analogy, but in terms of the content, it's very different. Yeah. Yeah, because I mean,
this, to me, being like patriotic has no significance in terms of religious value or
something that's even more sacred and deeper. I mean, this, you're talking on a whole other level
when we talk about something on the sacred level of beliefs like that, to me, that's deeper,
in my opinion as well. But I really was educated by a ton of stuff that you brought to the table,
and I know our audience has. Is there anything that you think you maybe want to brush up on
before we end up getting close to closing out here? Well, just since you mentioned the United
States and, you know, the flag and so forth, it might be worth dwelling for a minute or two on
some of the Mithraic symbolism in the United States. Please do. Please do. Yeah. So, you know,
I mean, the red and the white stripes in our flag are, again, a reference to the color, the colors
in the Amonida, Muscaria, Mushroom, and the two most important colors in Mithraism, the red and the
white. And the blue field with the stars in it is an alchemical symbol as well for, you know,
that celestial sphere that Mithra rules over, his ability to overcome the Lord of time and fate.
The Statue of Liberty is a combination of symbols from two different Mithraic grades of
initiation. In the second grade of initiation in Mithraism, believe it or not, the initiate had
to become a transvestite. He was dressed up as a woman and they put a crescent diadem in his hair.
And in the grade of Heliodromos or the solar charioteer, the symbols were the torch and the
oil lamp. And, you know, the Statue of Liberty used to actually have an oil lamp torch. So,
the torch and the oil lamp and then the nymph with the crescent diadem, these are symbols from
two different grades of initiation that you see in the Statue of Liberty, together of course with
the solar halo, which is often depicted around Mithra's head. The aura or halo around the heads
of kings and prophets is an artistic convention that's from Mithraic Iran and that spread both to
the east and to Mahayana Buddhist artistic depictions and sculptures and paintings and then into the
late Roman and medieval west. So, the Statue of Liberty, it could be argued, is a feminine
incarnation of Mithra. And the person who designed it, Bartoldi, was a Freemason. And, you know,
the Masons are steeped in Mithraism and, you know, studies of the Mithraic Mysteries. So,
that's another American symbol. What if someone says, well, the red and the white is blood and
the blood is the red? And what do you say to someone who thinks this is just about, you know,
the bloodshed for our freedom and giving a different position on the flag? What would you say to that?
I would say they can go on believing whatever motivates them to fight for that flag.
Right? Okay, okay.
To speak of which, let me add also another military symbol. Talk about fighting for the flag.
You know, even though it's become rather infamous these days because of its appropriation by Mussolini
in Italy, the fascis is a very important American symbol. You see the fascis in Congress,
behind the podium where the president speaks, and you see it under the two arms of Abraham Lincoln
and the Lincoln Memorial. There's the fascis under each of his arms. And the fascis, which is the
bundle of sticks that are bound together, right? Meaning that individually each stick is breakable,
but in a bundle bound together, they become unbreakable, right? That's an old military symbol
that was introduced into Rome through the Mithraic influence of Iran on Rome.
The most ancient form of the fascis is in rock carvings that you see on the mountain sides in
Iran, where Mithras is holding the fascis, which in Persian is called the Barsom. And it's these,
you know, individual sticks that are bound together into an unbreakable bundle. So that's
another symbol that's very common in America, in American iconography that's Mithraic in origin.
You got me, you got me thinking, I had to write it down while you were talking here.
We were talking about how Mithras, or Mithraism, there was the skull and the cross bone
on the flag during the sea. Well, there's this weird conspiracy in the United States that presidents
like to visit this thing called the skull and cross bone meeting. Now, is there some secret society
that is going on that you think ties into ancient Mithraism in the scores?
Yeah, of course.
Okay, okay. Do you have any comment?
I mean, Scull and Bones, one can't join Scull and Bones unless one goes to Yale. It is a,
it's a fraternity at Yale specifically. But there are other similar fraternities at other,
you know, prominent universities. Scull and Bones is a feeder secret society for the masons,
which is at Yale specifically. And yes, they use the skull and the cross bones as their symbol.
They also carry out rituals that have their origin in Mithraism. So in the first grade of
initiation in Mithraism, the initiate, the raven, the raven, raven is the first grade of initiation.
The raven initiate is put into a coffin. And they do this in Scull and Bones, where, you know,
they put the initiate into the coffin and he has to confess all his, you know, various,
you know, adventures up to that point in his life. So, and, you know, he's also, I think,
I think they strip him naked before they put him in the coffin. This was also the case in the
initiation for the grade of the raven, the first ceremony that you undergo as an initiate
of Mithraism. So, yes, that's, that's, now the question is, do these rites, ritual symbols,
have any deeper metaphysical and psychological significance anymore, or are they the trappings
of a corrupt crime syndicate? You know, is this initiatic apparatus being used to facilitate
what is effectively, at this point, a criminal syndicate? That's a question. That's an open
question I leave you with. I mean, when we see people like George H. W. Bush rise to the level
of being a 33rd degree Freemason, I think you really have to ask yourself, you know, how much
is left of the Mithraic spirit in these kinds of institutions? Yeah, he doesn't sound,
I don't know if this would mean anything, but I would suspect your understanding of
the esoteric and the deeper knowledge of things would reflect on someone who's a 33rd degree,
because I've even had a 32nd degree Freemason join me on this program, and he's full of
information and insight on this, and what is George W. Bush, but other than a fundamentalist
Zionist Christian? I mean, it's like, I mean, to me, unless that's all a front, it's hard for me
to believe a 33rd degree Freemason who's been educated in all the secrets. Well, W, W was the
fundamentalist Christian. Right, right. But yeah, it's hard to believe how the son of a 33rd degree
Freemason could wind up being such a, frankly, moron theologically. Right, right. Theologically,
he literally is waiting for Jesus to ride on a cloud, you know, somehow fly back here, you know,
come on, I'm coming back, second coming of Jesus, you know, to me, that's a little like, whoa. So
his father was, I'm sorry, I misheard you. So his father was the 33rd degree Freemason. Interesting.
Yes, his father was a 33rd degree Freemason, the same father who was the director of the CIA,
whose father in turn was Hitler's primary financier in America. You know, Prescott Bush,
W's grandfather, HW's father was Hitler's principal financier in America. And yeah,
it's an interesting family. Now, I'll give you briefly, I think that the reason that, you know,
W was such a theological moron, despite his father's pedigree, is that they were using him,
that, you know, HW and Dick Cheney and these other power brokers in the
Second Bush administration were using W's theological worldview in order to manipulate him
into taking certain courses of action that were in their interests, like the war in Iraq.
Right, right. Makes sense. I mean, it makes kind of dark, you know, a father manipulating his son
that way, but history keeps repeating itself. Yeah, wouldn't be the first time. Exactly, exactly.
One more question, if you don't mind me asking, let's jump back to Jesus for one second. And
I wanted to ask you, since you're well aware of all these different ideas, do you believe
that there was a historical Jesus?
You know, I'll give you an interesting answer to that question. Okay. I don't know if you've ever
heard of the remote viewing program. The remote viewing program was a CIA funded psychic espionage
program directed against the Soviet Union, because in the 1970s, America found out that
the Russians were using psychics to spy on America. And so they decided they needed to have a similar
rival program. And the CIA funded the initial research at Stanford. And then ultimately,
once the program became operational, it was subsequently taken over by the Defense Department.
And so they have this program from the late 1970s all the way into the end of the Cold War. It
was dismantled with the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. And these remote viewers, these
clairvoyant spies, were capable of looking at any event in the human past. They did this in order
to reconstruct, let's say, what happened during a terrorist attack, okay, like the Pan Am Flight
103. They were able to reconstruct what actually happened on that airplane by sending one of these
psychic spies into the past. And they found that they could do this with any, any date and event
in history. Okay. Matter of fact, they found this accidentally, because they would send people to
spy on a site in the Soviet Union. And instead of seeing that, you know, secret Soviet lab in the
present, the guy would see that piece of Soviet countryside 80 years into the past, because
something more interesting had happened there at that time, some big fire or whatever. Their, their
psyche was drawn like, like by a magnet to that place at the most interesting period in its history.
And so they found they could look at events in the past. And this could be a great tool for
archaeology and for history to try to reconstruct history by tasking different remote viewers
to look at the same historical event independently of one another and see whether the data they come
up with aligns. And so I've often thought, you know, why not do this with Jesus and find out once
and for all whether this Jesus character really existed, at least in any recognizable form, whether
there was a man Jesus of Nazareth or whether we're dealing with a misinterpretation of Apollonius of
Tiana or what, right? But here's the problem. What the remote viewers also found is that when
you're dealing with clairvoyance and other forms of extrasensory perception, your, your belief system,
your mental fixations, your psychological projections can really easily get mixed up with the data
and garbly. Okay, it can introduce noise into the data. And the problem with somebody like Jesus is
there's so much myth built around this person. There are so many psychological projections
on a social level, on a planetary level, around this person. And they're all conflicting in various
ways, conflicting mythologies that are, they're each striving with one another to define who this
figure was, that I don't think you'd get any good data out of that. We, even if you use psychic,
you know, competent clairvoyance that we're screened by the CIA and the DoD and who can give
you really accurate information to reconstruct the terrorist attack, they're not going to be able to
tell us even whether there was a historical Jesus, because there are so many mythic structures
projected from out of the collective unconscious onto this figure at this point, that they're
going to start getting that kind of noise inside the signal of the data that they produce. So that's
a long way of saying that, you know, I wouldn't be so presumptuous as to be able to answer that
question more definitively than, you know, the most competent clairvoyance that you could enlist
to go back and look at Roman Palestine, you know, in the early decades of the, you know, AD.
Fascinating, fascinating response. I don't know what my take is on the whole clairvoyance stuff.
I honestly am very skeptical. I take, I would need to see some stuff. Do you have any references
of something I should look into to see? Yeah, absolutely. A good book to look at is Lynn Buchanan's
Seventh Sense. The Seventh Sense, Lynn Buchanan was a trainer for the other remote viewers in the
CIA DoD program, and I've met him in person, very down-to-earth guy, and he's written this book,
The Seventh Sense, that overviews the program and talks about some of the very, you know,
fascinating missions that they carried out to reconstruct terrorist attacks, track hostages.
They were able to track American hostages that were taken by Hezbollah in Lebanon,
days into the future, track their movements, days into the future, and try to organize rescue
operations for these hostages. Wow, thank you so much, Jason. We've got to do some more shows.
We'll put together some more content that we can do for sure. I think your information's gold, man.
I really enjoyed this so much. Is there a website? Is there ways people can contact? Or is there ways
people can help you? Sure, sure. Jasonrezzorgiani.com is my website. It's a good portal to everything
else because I have links to YouTube and Facebook and whatever there on the top tab in my website,
and links to my books. Also, there's a books tab, which will take you to my Amazon author page.
So, Jasonrezzorgiani.com is the place for them to go. Excellent, excellent. So, make sure you guys
go down in the description. The website's going to be there. You guys can contact and go and figure
out ways to support what he's doing, especially by getting the book. Now, you've got me. I've got
to check out the book you've written here. This was really interesting. I really, really appreciate
this because a lot of what I've heard in terms of history, we've built churches over the temples of
Mithraism. And why did Christianity? You got to ask yourself, why did Christianity actually
stomp out? Why did it become the predominant? It makes no sense if one is not really looking at
all this other elements, not just looking at the Bible. You got to look more than just the 66 books
that were depending on your canon. You got to look more at history and things surrounding it,
why things end up the way they are. I really do appreciate you joining me. You guys can go through
his website. I also have the book on my Amazon affiliate link. If you guys decide you want to
go in there, I'm going to actually add all his books that are on Amazon in that link too. So,
either Avenue, if you're looking to get the book, but go to his website, show him some love,
help him support him on what he's doing here. So, we can get it back on the show because this
information is gold and Mithvision podcast wants to keep digging it. So, I really appreciate you
joining me, Jason. Thank you, Derek. It's really been my pleasure and I look forward to having
another conversation soon. And hopefully, I don't have the flu this time, so I could be a lot more
interactive with you. I hope you get well soon. At least it's not coronavirus. Please. I hope that
ends soon too. So, yeah, I really appreciate that, brother. And for those of you who are watching
who don't know, we are Mithvision.
