Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Go ahead, get the book.
Come on, subscribe to his podcast.
We are MedVision.
Welcome back to MedVision Podcast.
I had to make that sound kind of, ooh, you know, we're getting into polygamy today, guys.
We talked about some of the doctrines.
I have Bryce Blankenegle.
He is the host of Naked Mormonism Podcast.
He is naked right now.
You guys know this is going to be really interesting, especially with the topic at hand.
And he's asking for support here, guys.
He needs your guys' support.
You're not asking.
I'm saying, please go help him out.
Join his Patreon.
Join his podcast.
It's free right now to get on his Patreon.
And it doesn't cost much per episode.
And it's always juicy.
The content, this is like the audio version of the Scientology,
Leah Remney content on the Mormon side, except it's exhaustive.
Where you might get nuggets on the Leah side, you're going to get like exhaustive material
when it comes to the Mormon history and what really took place in history.
We also have David Fitzgerald, author of the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion
and the Mormons.
Go down in the description, get the book.
And he has a Patreon.
You guys can help plug there.
It's new.
He just started it.
He needs your help making it grow.
And we talked about a lot of doctrines on the last episode.
David, did you want to touch on that for a second?
Well, we did talk about a lot.
And I could say, what do Macedon bones, Moon men, big foot,
sparkly vampires, and Battlestar Galactica have to do with each other?
The answer is, they're all connected to Mormonism in some way.
And we could spend a whole episode just on that.
But we're not going to do that.
You know, I got to say, once in a while, once in a while, you find yourself in a remarkable
situation where you hear a sentence that you never thought you would hear.
Or never, if it was said in any situation, it would never make sense.
But here we are.
And what you just said, David, makes perfect sense.
And it's just mind blowing and fun and exciting.
And Mormonism is just so much fun.
It is just the tree that keeps on giving.
That is so true.
So true.
And on that note, we could keep talking about those.
And we probably will.
But today we want to do a very special episode of our Mormon series and just talk about the
sex, because there's so much sex going on behind the scenes in early Mormon history.
Yeah.
Yep.
Sex.
No, I'm just kidding.
All right.
Very good.
All right, Bryce.
That's the last time I'm hurting your ears.
OK.
I appreciate that.
And so viewers can see that I'm using, like, in-ear headphones.
So when Derek whispers into his microphone, it is indescribably creepy.
Anyway, right.
Yeah, it's David likes it.
I mean, differing opinions.
It's opinions.
We all know that David is into some freaky stuff.
So that's it's all good.
It gets a little blue on the show, folks.
Keep it clean.
Dude, Bryce, before we got on this, though, you were like, OK, I told you,
I was like, man, we wouldn't be able to cover this in 90 minutes to do, like,
an exhaustive episode on all the women.
And it wasn't just Joseph Smith.
This is what I love about what you do.
Like, I saw a video a while back on YouTube where the guy was like,
he had 30-something wives.
We don't even know really how many for sure.
But, like, legitimately consented.
Like, there was a situation where union took place.
If you know what I'm saying, and that happened multiple times.
So he's not the only one.
I never knew that I kind of figured other men did.
I don't know anything about this.
So I was saying, let's stick to the most crazy stuff that we can think of,
like the most woe, holy crap, stories in the polygamist side.
And it ties right into their doctrine.
Like, you can't divorce them, even though they try to today.
Yeah.
Like we said, last time we were talking about the theology behind Mormonism
and how an essential part of it was polygamy.
Now we'd like to talk about how that played out in real life behind the scenes.
Because polygamy and Mormonism, I mean, today, for us, it's linked.
You think of Mormons, you think they have all these wives.
That's one of the first things you think of.
But when it began in 1830, nobody, not even the Mormons knew about
the blessings of Jacob or the principle.
Because the only people who knew about it were Joseph Smith
and the girls he was porking at the time.
And it was kept top secret for years, taught to just a select few,
and actively, emphatically denied in print, in sermons, in public,
over and over repeatedly for decades, for years and years and years.
And as early as 1832, explained to his innermost circle
that the reason for all this deception was to protect the holy truth,
nestled deep inside all these lies like the gooey center of a tootsie pop.
Because the Lord had vouchsafe that the taking of extra lives was a true principle,
but the time had not yet come for it to be practiced, i.e., made public.
That said, Mormon historian Todd Compton, author of the exhaustive, the researched book
In Sacred Loneliness, the Plural Wives of Joseph Smith, which we have right here,
has wonderful book, wonderful book.
Here's what the numbers are on Joseph Smith, on Brigham Young, and other leaders of the church.
For most of the 19th century, only probably 20 to 25 percent of the adult Mormons were
involved in polygamy family, and the typical polygamists just had two wives.
Rarely you had three wives, but for the upper Muckany mucks, the higher circles,
those went right up the chart.
So with Joseph Smith, we have for sure 38 well-documented wives,
eight likely wives with less certain evidence, and still other eight suspected wives who sealed
themselves to Joseph for eternity in posthumous temple weddings.
So for sure, we have at least 49 that we know of because of that.
And he didn't stop accumulating wives just because he was dead.
We talked about how they had ordinances in Mormon theology that you couldn't start your
own universe unless you had wives.
So the way this would work is you could get married in a Mormon temple.
And Bryce, if you want to jump into this, for time or eternity, feel free to jump in.
But you could be sealed to somebody for this life till death do you part,
and that's what they call being sealed for time.
Or you could be sealed for eternity, which means you would be their eternal spirit wife
celestial baby mama.
And hundreds of women did that.
Joseph was immediately sealed to 66 or 67 women right after his death,
and another 149 dead women were sealed to him as well.
And they continue to do that for decades.
So right.
Well, and let's also point out, right, like so Mormonism is very nepotistic, right?
And we talked about that in the last episode, the people who are running the church in the
early Kirtland and Nauvoo era, mostly those are the same families who are running the church today.
I mean, obviously it branches out.
And the polygamy in Utah, Utah being an open polygamist territory,
and Mormonism only outlawing polygamy in order to gain Utah statehood is a fascinating subject
in and of itself.
But that idea of Mormon royalty means that the highest person that you're sealed to
means that you will get the greater glories, right?
So if you can, if you're a woman who can be sealed to Joseph Smith,
that means that, you know, no matter how horrible your husband is here on earth,
the person you're sealed to for time, the person you're with for eternity is
the profit of the last dispensation, right?
The profit of the restoration that is as righteous and as awesome and as world building
and cool as eternity can get for you.
So there's a lot of incentive for women to be sealed to the highest person in the church
that they possibly can, whether that be Joseph Smith or Brigham Young or Wilford Woodruff
or Lorenzo Snow or John Taylor or whatever.
Yeah. And on the flip side, if you're a good Mormon husband, you go to your Mormon kingdom
in the afterworld and think, oh, right, let's start making our planet with all my celestial wives.
And you find out, oh, sorry, yeah, no, they were just your wife for time.
They've already been sealed to Joseph Smith.
So it's like, you are a shit.
I don't look, my friend.
That's right.
The profit has got your wife.
It's just, yeah, anyway.
What? So they can't, okay, this gets really weird and confusing,
but I guess we should just jump into it.
The one question I was going to say on that, before we get into the actual examples,
and I think we should jump right into it.
We don't have time, not to.
You can seal them after they're dead.
You can send them off, say, hey, when you die, you're going there, 100,
right now someone could do a ceremony, send their wife to Joseph Smith in the afterlife.
Yeah. Yep.
Okay.
So technically there is a way.
You just hope someone thinks about you after you're dead enough to say,
he can have my wife.
It's okay.
Because right now everybody who's dead is either in spirit paradise or spirit prison
where they're basically, as Bryce called it, a Mormon reeducation camp in the sky.
And so nobody's in the place that they say is supposed to be at yet.
That's not necessarily true.
There are special cases.
Joseph Smith.
Wait a second.
So hold on guys.
We are going.
You broke up.
Sex.
We got to be talking about sex.
All right.
Yeah.
Say that again.
Say it again.
You broke up.
Go ahead and say that the way you just did.
Can I stop?
Okay.
The whole thing.
Okay.
All right.
All right.
Wait.
Time out.
Time out guys.
Back it up.
We are going down another theological rabbit hole and we could do a whole episode on that,
but we need to talk about sex tonight.
I apologize.
Let's go straight into Funky Town.
Right.
So this actually, Joe couldn't do stuff without justifying it biblically, right?
So he has this concept of like the blessings of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph, the
polygamous prophets in the Old Testament, that he used those guys as like his examples
and his theological justifications for these things, right?
And this fits into the timeline that we've been constructing over these past episodes,
because all the time, you know, when we talked about Fannie Elger, right?
Like that was in Kirtland.
Joe hadn't come up with like this expansive theology system of people becoming gods by
that point.
It wasn't until Nauvoo that that started to make, to surface.
And there's also the increased need for secrecy that you're talking about, David, right?
Like where only the most elect people that Joe knows that he can really trust,
only those people get to learn about the doctrine and only like the select of the select group
actually get to practice it here on earth.
Everybody else has to wait until eternity where they can acquire more wives and have people
sealed to them posthumously, right?
And this was controversial even in the church or people like Oliver Cowdery and Emma Smith
who hated the idea of polygamy.
We'll get into that in a minute.
But basically there was a little civil war going on in the church and actually became
a full-on sism after Joseph's death.
Yeah, absolutely.
But let's mention Fannie Elger and let's get back to her because this is really where
his career as a philanderer starts is with the 17-year-old girl in 1833.
Long before he starts coming up with the theological underpinnings,
there was just this attractive, comely 17-year-old girl living in the Smith household
named Fannie Elger.
Contemporaries described her as comely and nice, a very pretty pleasing young girl who was
loved by all.
Her and Emma were very fond of each other.
What was less known was that Joseph was also very fond of her until one day in 1835
when Emma is spying on them and sees through the cracks in the barn.
How did she put it?
Saw the transaction between them.
Yeah.
And so in rage, she forced the girl out and we see this pattern occurring again and again.
In the Smith family household for the rest of their lives together.
That she's considered the first of his plural wives.
But at the time, he had not even come up with that yet.
And it was an affair.
It was an affair.
As Oliver Cowdy put it, a dirty, filthy, dirty nasty, filthy affair.
And he lost all respect for Joseph after that.
And in fact, it's funny, after this happened, he issued an official denunciation
of polygamy while Joseph was away.
And it was later replaced in a Doctrine and Covenants section.
And he was eventually...
Let's solidify that point, right?
Yeah.
Mormonism in 1835 was a canonized monogamous sect in their Doctrine and Covenants.
It was Doctrine and Covenants section 101 that said,
we decry polygamy that no man or woman can be married to more than one partner,
except in the case of death or divorce, where either is at liberty to marry again.
That's word for word.
Mormonism was a monogamous sect.
1876 rolls along, they decanonize that revelation and they canonize the polygamy revelation.
132, yes, exactly so, exactly so.
And the ironic thing about that is that the Book of Mormon also decries polygamy in multiple places.
There's places where they're condemned for having concubines.
Anyway, that's a little more wishy-washy.
Here's the thing though, which we can't argue about.
The Bible is clearly pro-polygamy in the Old Testament.
Absolutely.
So all these fundamentalists who talk about polygamy,
they actually have biblical justification, the verses behind them, to back it up.
It's we today who don't do that, that have to make up excuses for why it was okay then and not okay now.
I want to comment real quick just to say it's not just the sex marriage stuff.
This goes into racism, a racial division.
You can easily see as a fundamentalist using the Hebrew Old Testament,
why a chosen holy race separate from other races, other people, is better than other people.
Because the God, whatever the God's name might be, chose them.
And I mentioned this in the last show I did.
White guy with a rebel flag from the south,
he doesn't really know some of the historical roots to his flag,
but nonetheless, he's proud to be a southerner.
White guy walks up to him in Walmart with a pamphlet.
Says, hey brother, I'm proud of that flag too and aren't you proud of who you are?
Why don't you come check us out and have a fellowship and they go.
And he hears a preacher preaching from the Old Testament
where pastors will never preach at a Baptist church
and talking about racial division and why we want to remain holy, separate.
And he said at that moment, this is a Ku Klux Klan member
on the YouTube channel called Soft White Underbelly.
He said, when I heard the Bible preached the truth from the actual Bible from this preacher
that no preacher's ever preached from, that text that way,
I knew he said the truth.
And at that point, I knew that I needed to be part of my own race and blah, blah, blah.
And God chose us white people and all that.
That's the stuff that's in the Bible.
No, God didn't chose the white people.
He chose the Israelites.
You would have been a slave in that system.
Right.
That's right.
You wouldn't have been sex-concubines.
So they're ripping off their book.
Yeah, but yeah.
Right.
It's so adorable that you think you're the top dog and God chose you.
When you just read the book a little deeper, no, the opposite is true.
You are one of those heathen slaves that need to be exterminated or enslaved.
I did it again, guys.
I'm sorry.
I took us off the topic.
We're never going to get to all the sex, damn it.
But I will also note that in Nauvoo, there was an immigrant who came from,
I believe it was North Carolina.
She was a freed slave, Jane Manning James, who came to live in the Smith home,
who historians argue in bicker about her role and who she was and where she came from and stuff.
But she was Joe's only black polygamist wife.
But he did have a freed slave polygamist wife.
That is fascinating.
I wish I had known that when I was putting together these notes,
because according to Brigham Young, that would have been death on the spot for him.
Right.
Well, after Joe's death, she immigrated to Utah with the Brigham Young Saints,
with the Brighamites, and she petitioned, repeatedly petitioned Brigham Young to be
sealed to Joseph Smith for eternity.
And he refused.
He continued to refuse and refuse and refuse and refuse.
And finally, something happened.
Something catalyzed it.
But finally, he relented and allowed her to be sealed to Joseph Smith by proxy.
So she wasn't allowed to do it herself.
Somebody had to stand in her place.
A white woman had to stand in her place to be sealed to Joseph Smith as his eternal slave.
Wow.
The layers of irony and disturbingness just pile up so fast.
You can hardly keep up.
Yeah.
Jane Manning James is a fascinating character.
Google her.
Just go ahead.
Black in Mormonism alone is a whole episode right there.
That dynamic is fascinating.
What happens next, guys?
I got to get us on track.
OK, so yeah, hang on.
Let me take the reins for just a second here.
Joseph Smith is creating these insular groups.
And he finally introduces this endowment ceremony in spring of 1842,
which is where we are landed in our historical timeline.
And he's got a lot of friends, bad friends, who are able to help him solidify and catalyze
and create this system of an insular group.
And the people who get this endowment ceremony
are people who are being prepared to learn the doctrine of polygamy,
are being introduced to it, or are people who are practicing it.
Those who receive their second anointing
are those who are basically given the green light
to practice this new and everlasting covenant, right?
So Joseph Smith creates this endowment ceremony.
This system of, you know, it's a passion narrative
where they act out the genesis narrative.
And Orson Pratt is slithering around like a snake in the Garden of Eden.
In, you know, he made up a costume for it and everything.
It's hilarious.
Anyway, sorry, Orson Hyde was doing it, not Orson Pratt.
Orson Hyde, anyway, still.
But they have to create these insular groups to control who knows this stuff.
Because they have to keep it in tension.
They have to allow people to talk about polygamy happening
because then it's going to be less of a shock
when one of those people, you know, is proposed to by one of the church leaders.
But they also have to publicly deny it because it's adultery.
It's adultery.
This is a castratable offense at the time for most people.
Right. And he, at some point, he comes out with a pamphlet.
But I'm missing the name.
I can't quite think of the name of it.
Was it Udre something?
Start over from the beginning of what you said.
Around this time.
Yeah, this reminds me of something because around this time,
Joseph Smith publishes a pamphlet under an assumed pseudonym
preaching that polygamy is awesome and biblical and we should all embrace it.
And the pamphlet gets the reaction to it is completely overwhelmingly negative.
And he, of course, never put his name on it,
but he has to push back and say, oh, yes, that's terrible.
Oh, where'd that come from?
Yeah, I could see that.
I'm not sure exactly which pamphlet you're referring to specifically.
But we do have the public war over polygamy
that is catalyzed at this time that begins happening.
Right. And a lot of this comes because of Joe's best friend at the time,
John C. Bennett.
Right. So, so Bennett is this guy who is an obstetrician and herbal physician.
He's mayor of the city.
He's extremely powerful.
He gets the Navu Charter passed.
But he is also a scoundrel.
He's kind of a monster.
And he's a kindred scoundrel with Joseph Smith, right?
These guys both have many of the same personality tendencies
of opportunism and of objectifying of women.
So, John Bennett in early 1842 here, he sees what's going on.
And, you know, he's obviously capable of producing abortions.
And there are numerous allegations about him, you know,
conducting abortions on behalf of Joseph Smith.
And the dude also ran a brothel, right?
Like, so if you're a brothel owner
and you don't have some system of birth control, you're up.
You got a pretty short-term business plan, right?
So, he's capable of forging relationships
with various women to get them to work for him in his brothel
and also for women's care, women's health care,
to deal with the consequences of polygamy, because, okay.
I just want to put a pin in the fact that we're talking about
there having been a brothel in Navu,
a Mormon brothel in Mormon town.
Wow.
Owned by Joseph Smith's best friend.
His younger brother also had a smaller brothel there.
So, I want to point this out, right?
So, Navu was situated, you know, a couple of episodes ago,
we talked about the location of Navu.
It was on the Mississippi on this jetty, or this peninsula,
I mean, and it was perfect for an industrial,
huge industrial city, a huge shipping town,
right on the Mississippi.
It had many advantages.
It had many advantages, but the thing is,
you don't just set up an industrial city overnight.
You have to create the appeal.
You have to get politicians in.
You have to get powerful people to come
and bring their money to Navu and invest it there
in order to build the factories
to actually capitalize on the location.
So, the only export that Navu had
for the entire time under Joseph Smith was debt.
That's the only export it had.
It was just Joseph Smith's name
that people would give him credit
and then he would distribute that credit
by land deeds and by special favors
and by trying to start up public works projects and stuff.
What that obviously does is there aren't a whole lot of jobs.
There weren't just not many jobs in Navu
to put food on the table,
and that sends a lot of women to seamstress work.
And seamstress is, in the 19th century,
a euphemism for sex work, right?
Seattle. I'm in Seattle, right?
Like, Seattle was built on the taxation of seamstresses,
and Seattle has never been a hotbed of the fashion industry.
So, women did a lot of seamstress work
in order to pay the bills,
and people would come in and visit Navu.
They would stop on their journey on the Mississippi.
They would stop in Navu for a couple of nights.
They'd stay at the Navu mansion,
one of the inns that they had there,
and then these guys would have a nice weekend partying in Navu
and hanging out at Joe's bar
and seeing the sights and touring the country.
And they'd go look at all the temple that was under construction,
and then they would review the Navu Legion,
and they'd say, oh, this place is really awesome.
I would like to buy a house here,
or I would like to buy a business here,
or I would like to do whatever, right?
And all of these deals were sweetened by the sex work
that was a thriving industry in Navu.
So, John C. Bennett's services of obstetrician work,
of herbal remedies, and of producing abortions
was absolutely necessary to the very economy of Navu.
And of course, the most beautiful, the most choice,
the most elect, the most righteous women
are reserved for the leadership of the church,
Joseph Smith specifically, right?
And there are individual stories
that we're going to discuss coming through all of this
and how this actually played out.
And I want to put a blanket content warning over all this
because we're also going to be discussing,
Joseph Smith and other church leaders locking teenage girls
in rooms and raping them, right?
There's some really ugly nasty shit that goes on here,
but it's all part and parcel with the concept of polygamy
and how it actually played out.
But we also need to give voice to the people
who enjoyed the lifestyle,
who didn't agree with the concept of monogamy.
And there were those groups, there were the Cochranites,
there was the Oneida group that cropped up a couple,
half a generation later.
There were these free-love communities
that didn't agree with monogamy
and practiced open marriages or practiced polygamy
or polygyny or polyamory in many different forms.
Mormonism was by no means unique in all of this
or no means a pioneer in all of this.
They just had, it was their own special flavor of polygamy.
So there are people who enjoyed this as well.
And like for women who are not attracted to men,
but society dictates that you have to be married
by the time you're 25.
Her having the prospect of a woman in the house
that she gets to choose,
it's technically her sister wife,
but that provides an opportunity for her
to be able to participate in a marriage,
be accepted by society,
but not be forced into a strictly monogamous marriage
with somebody who she's not attracted to or doesn't love.
We can go.
And that brings me to a point I want to make
about monogamy and polygamy today.
Polygamy is still alive and well in Utah.
There's no way they could stop it if they even wanted to.
If they had the political capital to do that,
they couldn't do it.
That's too much.
And that said, I have no problem
if there's some soccer moms in Provo who are,
you know, who love their polygamous lifestyle.
Fair play to them.
That I have no problem with.
What I have a serious big problem with
is the polygamy that's practiced in the breakaway,
the fundamentalist LDS groups in Arizona
and the deserts in Utah,
where they are basically an American Taliban
and they are abusing and manipulating them
and selling them off.
It's mental.
It is sex trafficking.
That's the word for it.
Exactly, exactly.
World's apart.
They're worlds apart.
It's not just it's not just in Utah.
I've been watching.
There's a lot of YouTube content people in Virginia.
There's cults that that are doing this exact thing
you're talking about.
And there's children trying to escape and run away,
but they have no family to go to.
So now they have no other choice sometimes,
but to marry and they're and they don't get to pick
their husband.
This is another crazy thing.
It's like, yeah.
That's where it's like polygamy in theory.
No problem with it.
Not a moral issue about polygamy.
What it is about is a sexual abuse sex trafficking
and growing up in a place where you're denied education,
where you're denied decent nutrition, healthcare,
where the boys who grow up become these lost boys
because, oh, I'm sorry.
I've got all the wives.
There's no room for you.
You're just a potential rival.
So many effed up things about that situation.
And so as we're telling in all these salacious stories
about how this all began,
let's just keep in mind that for as fun as it is
to tell these stories to a certain degree
in a at a 14 year old boy level mentality,
as it played out in real life,
it was horrific and continues to be horrific today.
Right.
There's good.
There's bad.
And there's ugly in what's going to be presented here.
And some of the good might be on the side.
You'd think, oh, I thought it was going to bash polygamy
the whole time.
No, it's not.
There's some women and people that were cool with this.
But then you go too far and there's religious backing.
And the culture at the time, the way they did these things.
So yeah, I got you.
Let's also highlight that.
Right.
So like the theological structure requires
that the husband lords over his harem of wives.
You cannot have an equal power dynamic
and equal consent and equal information
within the theological underpinnings of this practice.
Right.
So like I think polyamory is great.
I have a lot of polyamorous friends.
And like I think that that's awesome.
I'm fascinated from an intellectual perspective
of like how that plays out.
Right.
And like how people handle, you know, like I have a time
in my life for the relationship with my wife.
How do people have time for relationships
with 10 people in their lives?
That's a fascinating subject to me.
And that's presents some interesting questions
and interesting discussions and some important discussions
on the role of informed consenting adults in all this.
Right.
The three criteria informed consenting adults.
Within a Mormon context, I am skeptical of the claim
that it could ever achieve true consent
because the religion requires coercion
and it requires a patriarchal power dynamic
that is impossible to overcome.
And let's give an example of that
because one of the things in Mormon theology
is that you are giving a secret name in the temple and you
have to speak that name to get into heaven, basically.
I'm dumbing it down a little bit, but not by much.
That's that's it.
That's right.
Your husband knows his name and he knows his wife's name.
His wife does not know her own name.
If she does not make her husband happy,
he has the option to say, yeah, no, you're not going into heaven
from from get and there's nothing you can do in this life.
Period.
It's like if you don't make him happy enough on his death,
but what are you going to do?
There's no court of appeals.
And that's just the kind of mindfuckery that this theology
has built in right from the get go from the ground up.
Right.
And there's also the concept of like these these ceilings
transcend the I do, I do, till death do your part.
These are celestial marriages.
In order for a person to get a celestial divorce,
you have to have a letter signed by the first presidency
of the church, right?
And there there are, you know, personal friends of mine
whose names, you know, I won't reveal here,
but the stories of what the hoops that women have to jump through
to get a celestial divorce are mind bending.
They absolutely break my skull into pieces
because what it entails is basically a multiple years
long interrogation process where you have to meet
with your leader, your spiritual leader, your bishop,
and your stake president and go up the chain of command.
And you have to describe to them all of your sexual indiscretions.
You have to describe all of your sins not even related to sex.
And you have to basically come out and confess everything
that you have done since you turned eight and were baptized
for them to determine that your celestial divorce is warranted.
And then you have to get them to write a letter
to the first presidency of the church and get that notarized
and then send it to the first presidency.
And the stories are so abusive and so f-
and so degrading for these women because they're just treated
like they're owned by their husband because they got sealed.
And until they get that celestial divorce,
whether they believe in the church or not,
that husband has the celestial power to call them through the veil,
regardless of who they marry and who they're loyal to for the rest of their lives.
So there's some nasty and ugly stuff that happens within these power dynamics.
And that's when it works as it's planned.
There's also a whole sceny underbelly of bishops who abuse their power
and have molested the children that come to them in these search and stances
and the women come to these circus dances.
It's massive.
Wow.
Yeah.
It's dangerous.
Right.
So guys, take me into examples of what's going on because I love this.
I'm just trying to get us back on track.
That's all.
This is amazing.
Let's go.
Let's get out of here for now.
Let's put a pin in this for now and go back to some of the real world,
things that were happening in the 1840s and 30s.
Right.
Please.
We see an acceleration of Joseph Smith's marriages, right?
So we had Fannie Alger, the fair, that an apologist would say
that was the first marriage in Kirtland in 1836, right?
And we have decades later retroactively making her that.
Exactly.
Yes, exactly.
Right.
And so we have the hotbeds of Mormon theology and development and timeline.
We have New York where the church was started, right?
Then we have Kirtland where all of the ideas are prototyped,
all of the concepts, all of the communalism, all of the shared wives,
all this stuff is just in its very infantile and very malleable state.
But the militarism of the 1838 Mormon War in Missouri,
when Joe is excommunicated from his Kirtland church and goes out there
and commits treason and war and murder in the state of Missouri, right?
He's not paying a whole lot of attention to his love life
beyond acquiring what we know for one Lucinda Morgan Pendleton, right?
And she is the woman who was this anti-Masonic celebrity, basically,
because her husband had been murdered by masons
because he published an expose on masonry.
So Joe acquires this wife while he is living with them,
with George Harris and Lucinda Harris in Missouri.
But once he gets to Nauvoo, that's when this expands and runs rampant.
And it's every week he's acquiring a new wife.
And that's when this all accelerates.
That's almost literally the line.
And this woman came to live with the Smiths under their own roof.
That's a hit and a half right there.
Oh, and soon they were married to Joseph.
OK, you've got to give me some examples.
And then give me examples of guys that weren't just Joseph Smith.
But I want to ask how did Joseph's actual wife, which didn't like polygamy,
I know that she played a role in this somehow.
So anyway, hold on, we'll get there.
We'll get there.
All right, let me start with Mary Elizabeth Rowland's Leitner.
Because the thing I love about her is that she claimed
that Smith secretly approached her in 1834 when she was 12 years old
and said the great vision concerning her that he was going to be the first woman
God commanded him to take as a plural wife.
And it wasn't Joseph's idea.
He also informed her that an angel with a sword threatened to kill him
if he failed to marry her.
And incidentally, she wasn't the first wife,
but she became his ninth wife at age 24 while married to somebody else.
Right.
That does establish a pattern that is replete throughout many of these younger wives.
Joe targets them when they are pubescent, right?
When they are 10, 11, 12, 13 years old, he targets them
and they are marked from that time forward.
And they eventually, almost all of them eventually become his wives.
Nancy Rigdon is one of the exceptions.
Grooming is what they call that in...
Grooming.
...ecological abuse section.
Circles now.
Here's another fun fact.
Joseph often asked his close friends and fellow hierarchy members
for their wives and daughters as a sort of loyalty bonding.
For instance, in 1842, he approached Apostle Heber...
Heber C. Kimball.
Am I saying his name right?
Heber.
Heber, yep.
Heber.
And asked for his wife.
So after three agonizing days, Kimball, he says,
with a broken and bleeding heart, leads his wife to the prophet
and hands her over.
But like Joseph didn't really want her,
he was just doing it as a loyalty test.
And then a year later, Kimball offered up his young daughter Helen
to become another Joseph's wife.
And he said, oh yeah, okay.
And he totally accepted the offer.
Now, when her father told her Helen about Joseph's plan for her,
she was shocked because she'd never heard of polygamy or plural marriage.
And besides, she was only 15 years old and already loved with a boy her age.
And so Joseph gave her a 24-hour deadline to make up her mind and said,
if you take this step, it will ensure your eternal salvation and exaltation
and that of your father's household and all of your kindred.
So with this matrimonial extortion, he became,
she became his probably 25th, sorry, 26th wife then.
And in later years, she wrote spirited defenses of polygamy,
though oddly never mentioned the fact that she was married to Joseph.
And during her tenure, she wrote tormented poetry, confessing her loathing and temptation,
writing, I hate polygamy in my heart.
And after his death, fortunately, she was able to enjoy the rest of her teenage years
and then marry her childhood sweetheart after all.
So that was a happy ending of sorts for one of his plural wives.
I want to tease apart a social dynamic in all this too, right?
Because these are women who are of marriageable age.
And it's not just Mary Elizabeth Rowland's lightener.
It's not just Helen Markimbal.
It's the Partridge sisters and the Lawrence sisters and a number of other teenage wives.
These are girls of marriageable age who are expected to go to social functions
in court, the, you know, marriageable age men who are their same age.
But Joseph, of course, forbid them from attending the dances and socials and
from ever fraternizing with the boys who might pose a threat to him.
And a number of the writings from journals and from letters of these women reveal
how much they were tormented by that fact that they couldn't socialize.
They couldn't hang out with their friends because Joe was keeping them under such a strong walking key.
He's like a giant sea lion on the beach.
He gets all the women and all the other men are just out on the other side of the beach waiting for it.
Yep. They got to sit on the pier.
Yep.
And here's another thing.
When you hear Mormons today defend polygamy, they act like, oh no, it was basically like social
security for all these poor widows and older women who would otherwise have nothing.
It's like, dude, no.
All these were almost virtually every one of these women were young,
nubile teens, not elderly.
You can tell there's a problem here, guys, because it's patriarchal to the core.
It's so interesting, like you just described the big seal on one side of the beach with
all the chicks and the guys on the other one.
Why can't the women marry multiple men?
Why is it only one man that all these women have to cling to and it being Joseph Smith,
which is so interesting hearing you guys describe this because the way you described
his statement to her about all the angel of the Lord is going to strike me dead,
that he, I think, and it just makes me wonder if he's had more experience that we don't know about
where he has forced himself and realized there are better methods because you got to imagine
it didn't start there.
He probably tried molesting girls and realizing I'll hurt you or something and that didn't work
because it never goes well.
So let me make it about how I'm going to be hurt.
Let me manipulate you, make you think like I'm going to die if you don't do it.
And it's a manipulation there.
Absolutely.
And let me let me give you another example because that segues exactly into this next
case I wanted to give you.
And in all these cases, look at listen to what he's saying to them and how he how he plays it off.
This is Lucy Walker, who was 16 years old in 1843.
After her mother died of malaria, he sent her father away on a mission.
He broke up the children among other families and took 16 year old Lucy
into their house to work for Emma.
So one day he calls in for her and informs her that God had commanded him to take her as another
wife and explain the secret new doctrine of plural marriage and asked her if she had anything to say.
Nothing.
She replied thinking, how could I speak?
What would I say?
And she wrote a feeling tempted and tortured beyond endurance and wanting to die right there
and then to be with her mother.
Well, this is what Joseph told her.
He ended with an ultimatum telling her, I have no flattering words to offer.
It is a command of God to you.
I will give you until tomorrow to decide this matter.
If you reject this message, the gate will be closed forever against you.
And she get pissed at us as it aroused every drop of Scotch in my veins
and stared him in the eye without a word and said, I felt at this moment that I was called
to place myself upon the altar as a living sacrifice.
And when she spoke, she said, Prophet of God or no,
she could not take such a big step without a sign from God.
She would rather die.
So he comes up to her all smiles, beaming and assured that she would have one,
a joy and peace that you never know.
And after a sleepless night of earnestly praying for guidance,
she says just before God, just before dawn, she gets her requisite sign.
It came to her and she says, it was not a love matter,
but simply the giving up of myself as a sacrifice to establish that grand and glorious
principle that God had revealed in his word.
So on May 1st, just after she turned 17,
she was hurriedly wed to Joseph in a secret ceremony
while Emma was on a shopping trip in St. Louis.
And she admitted in court decades later that Emma never knew about the marriage.
So there's a lot of patterns and transities out of this
and Joe tried every tool in the box, right?
So you're telling these women that, well, these girls that God has commanded this,
this isn't about me, this isn't about you, this is about God's plan.
There's the angel with the sword who threatened to kill them if it didn't happen.
There's also, there's the pattern that many,
many of these women talked about of sacrifice, right?
Helen Markimble, who was 14 at the time,
Joe convinced her parents to give her to him.
And she said, my father had but one you lamb,
but willingly laid her upon the altar as a sacrifice, right?
Which is not the sacrifice he offered,
he was willing to offer her mother as well, but that wasn't accepted.
Yeah, well, when Joe told Heber that he wants...
Sorry, when Joe told...
When Joe told Heber that he wanted violet for a wife, that's Heber's wife.
Heber and violet accepted and Joe said, well, that was just a test.
I actually want your 14-year-old daughter, Helen, and they agreed to that, right?
So there's these patterns of the tools that Joe was using,
there's the patterns of the experiences of the women,
talking about sacrificing and about of the hurt and heartache,
the scotch in her veins.
These women understood that agreeing to this meant that that was...
That this is all against their will, that they are going to become his victims,
they understood that.
But they also understood that what they were doing was purchasing the salvation of their family.
Exactly.
Joe would promise them exaltation, godhood, if you just give me your teenage daughter.
And the teenage daughters were informed that if you just give yourself to be sealed to the
prophet and whatever he does to you, it's all the will and plan of God, whatever happens to you,
I'm sorry, this is the Victorian era, we know that you're never going to talk about this.
I'm sorry it has to happen to you, but you're purchasing the salvation of...
You're purchasing godhood for all of us.
So just take that D, just take it.
Yeah, just take one for the team.
All right, I was going to bring up some more, but I want to skip straight to one of the examples
where it didn't work, where this backfired on him.
Because we said, we know at least 49 where it did work.
We know at least five prospective brides who spurned him.
And one of these rejections blew up in his face so spectacularly,
it cost him two of his closest lieutenants.
So one day in 1842, Joseph invited 19-year-old Nancy Rigdon.
If Rigdon sees...
Rigdon, hey, remember that name, the guy I call Hingepin Rigdon,
because the success of the church hinged on this guy?
Hingepin Rigdon, his Sidney Rigdon, his daughter, Nancy.
He invited Nancy Rigdon to the home of another Nancy, Ms. Nancy Miranda Hyde.
Briefly, she was the one who he almost got...
He got tarred and feathered and almost castrated over years before.
Back in 1832.
That's another story.
Anyway, he greeted the girl, ushered into a private room, and locked the door behind them.
And after swearing her to secrecy, he told her how he had liked her for several years,
and that he wished she would be his.
He hastened to assure her that the Lord was well pleased with the idea,
and there was no sin in it whatsoever.
The shocked girl went ballistic.
She had already been warned about Joseph's designs on her by
John C. Bennett, the notorious John C. Bennett, who also had designs on her.
She had snubbed his advances too.
So not only did the...
I'm skeptical that John Bennett had advanced her.
Anyway.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, we'll take that for any.
But in any case, not only did the feisty girl not fall for his standard.
God has commanded me to take you as another wife.
She turns on him, raging away.
And Joseph's like flustered.
He calls in Mrs. Hyde to help win Nancy over.
And she tries to tell the girl that, yeah, I was surprised too when I first learned about
celestial marriage, but she promised her it was true and a great exaltation would come to those who
received it or embraced it.
You want to jump into about mothers in Israel real fast?
Yeah.
No, that's that's a great segue.
Right.
So the mothers in Israel was a program.
So OK, you got you got a dozen guys who are taking hundreds of wives and you have,
you know, an entire system of sex work that's going on in Navu.
You got to have organization.
You got to have stratification.
You got to have the women who you trust the most.
You got to you got to organize stuff.
And that's what happened with the Relief Society.
Eventually, Joe gave his wife, Emma, the authority to organize a women's benevolence
society, which those are pretty common in the time.
Most of the time they were they were organizing and holding rallies for abolition because,
well, it was pre prohibition era, right?
Pre suffrage.
The only power that the women had was to organize and hold rallies.
And that's what these benevolence societies were.
And they were also for, you know, for coordinating labor.
For sowing for the poor and for for coordinating food and stuff like that.
Right. So in the case of Mormonism, they were coordinating a very different kind of labor.
That's exactly right.
It was called the Relief Society.
The Relief Society.
Yeah.
The Relief Society.
Right.
So I didn't understand what you meant till the third time.
This is almost like the cock crowed computer.
OK.
And he realized I denied him thrice.
You literally just interpreted what you mean by relief by saying that the third time.
Wow, thrice is a charm.
So this this system is the leadership of this is staffed with Emma, right?
His wife, who's president.
I'm going to I'm going to screen share a little bit so people can see pictures of all of these,
these wonderful people.
So here's Emma, right?
Here's Emma.
This is I'm sorry.
I didn't click the share button.
There we go.
There's Emma, right?
So here's Emma.
This is Joseph Smith's first wife, married in 1827.
Lovely blushing bride.
This is taken right after Joseph Smith was dead.
This is her morning face.
So she's the president of the Relief Society of Navu.
Then we also lock in her time.
Boy, just look at that face.
Look at that face, right?
Her secretary is Eliza R Snow.
Now I I have to admit this and I want to be as transparent as possible.
I got a crush on Eliza Snow for reasons that are far beyond Navu Mormonism.
She was the most powerful woman in Utah.
She reorganized the Relief Society under the careful watchful eye of Brigham Young,
but she was also in many ways.
She was a counselor to Brigham Young.
She held more sway and power in Utah than any other woman and then most of the men.
Like she is a powerful person.
And she was also an advocate for suffrage movement.
And she was an ally to the early suffrage movement that was cropping up in the 1860s and 70s.
Right.
So we have Eliza R Snow and the other people who are counselors to Emma,
one of them was Joseph's wife.
The other was a mother of Joseph's wife.
So the entire leadership of the Navu Relief Society is staffed with people who are
Joseph Smith's legal or polygamous illegal wives.
So they're encouraging, one of their unofficial roles is through the not procurers exactly,
but the helpful transition from women and girls who have no idea this is going on to,
yes, come join us and be our sister.
Exactly.
Right.
So that tension that I talked about earlier, the tension of keeping these things as rumors,
not giving enough information for it to become publicly verifiable and
prosecutable more importantly, but keeping polygamy as rumors and denying it publicly,
but like letting it flourish a little bit on the inside.
The Relief Society was created as a system to try and control the rumors,
but also to prep the girls, to groom the younger girls by having them taught
the doctrine of polygamy by older trusted women in the Relief Society who are already wives.
Elizabeth Davis-Durphy is one of these.
There are a few of these women who are given the label of mothers in Israel,
and they would basically act as liaisons to teach the young girls about polygamy
and to basically get a finger on the pulse of how receptive they were.
And then they would take that information back to Joseph Smith and tell him,
without the girl's knowledge, what they learned in that conversation.
And then Joseph would be able to tailor his tactics for that conversation.
Right.
So we see how women who are victimized by this patriarchal marriage system
become the perpetrators of that abuse.
And as we know, in dozens of cases, that worked out just fine.
It did, right.
So with Nancy.
Where it backfires on him.
Okay, so what happens when it backfires?
This is the girl he has in the room by herself and her history and her lady friend.
The lady friend is trying to tell her, oh, this is going to be great.
A great exaltation will come to those who receive it and embrace it.
But young Nancy says, if she ever gets married, she'd marry a single man or not at all.
Then she threatened to scream her head off until the entire town came running,
unless Joseph let go of her at once.
And that's exactly what he does because no one has ever done this to him before.
And he let her out.
And the next day he tried again via a personal letter to Nancy.
Okay, this letter is iconic.
And I recommend people Google the happiness letter or search for it on YouTube.
Personal friend of mine, a thinker of thoughts, Jonathan Streeter,
did a presentation on this with historian Christopher Smith.
And they went through line by line of the happiness letter and teased out all of the coercive language
and the moral relativism that is presented in the happiness letter.
And compare it to other cult leaders like David Karashin and these other cult leaders
who have harems of wives using exact same terminology.
It is baffling and amazing.
And we have that letter.
Thanks to John C. Bennett.
Yes, who brought it out as a trial as evidence against him.
But here, let me, let's not just talk about it.
Let me give you a couple of lines from this beautiful letter.
If you read the history of the church.
If I may, if I may screen share just to show them what I found here to see if this is,
I don't know, something that I think would be cool.
Hold on one second.
I'm going to screen share because I think the image will speak volumes to what we're doing here while you're reading.
See his actual handwriting.
Yeah.
Well, this, it's that, but plus you're going to see some context in this.
So tell me what you guys think of this.
Okay.
See, did that work?
Let me see.
Oh, here we go.
Hold on.
Hold on.
That's not the one wrong screen.
That's not the one.
This is the one.
This is the one.
All right.
You guys see that?
There you go.
Gotcha.
I hope that helps.
It is manipulation.
Absolutely.
Right.
Okay.
So we got a lot of figures in all this.
Right.
So we have a portrait.
Yeah.
Nancy Rigdon is up at the top.
Then we have Joseph Smith with his Book of Mormon there.
And then we have Sydney Rigdon on the top right of the screen.
Right.
That's that was his second in command.
Who was kind of washed up by this point.
Bottom left.
We have Willard Richards who was or is that or is that Orson Hyde?
I think that's Willard Richards.
The woman just below Sydney Rigdon is the woman in question
who is helping facilitate this Nancy.
Nancy Marinda Johnson Hyde.
Right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yep.
So yeah.
And bottom left we have Willard Richards who was Joseph Smith's
personal scribe who I believe actually wrote the letter itself.
And next to him.
I think that's Lorenzo Snow.
I'm not a hundred percent sure who that is.
I think he's dead.
I'm not sure who that is.
Yeah.
Right.
It's a dead old white guy.
Next to that is John C. Bennett.
That's a guy who was the obstetrician the the brothel owner.
And I don't know who is to the right of John C. Bennett.
Yeah.
And you can see this is the happiness letter.
This is iconic in Mormon studies.
Yeah.
Here's here's what happens if you read it in the book today.
It's presented as an essay on happiness
with an editorial note innocently declaring
it's not positively known what occasioned the writing of this essay.
But when you read it it's just a little more than a verbal thumb screw
that includes gyms like this.
That which is wrong under one circumstances
may be and often is right under another.
Whatever God requires is right no matter what it is.
Although we may not see the reason thereof until long after the events transpire.
It goes on from there switching back and forth between carrot and stick
promising joy and peace and obedience
but darkly warning that blessings offered
but rejected are no longer blessings.
And then he tries some bad poetry like be wise today
tis madness to defer next day the fatal precedent may plead.
And he informs her that God is more liberal in his views
that we're ready to believe.
But at the same time he is more awful in the executions
of his punishments than we suppose him to be.
Well for some reason this wonderful letter of love and promises
does not work on her.
His touching words didn't just fail to win her over
they bit him on the ass because she promptly promptly ran to her father with the letter.
And Sidney Rigdon who was never terribly stable at the best of times
completely lost it.
Joseph arrived to his house to find him wild eyed with fury
demanding explanation for his behavior.
And at first Joseph stonewalled and denied everything.
But when the girl showed the letter in his face
he broke down and admitted that the truth
though not before attempting to get him off the hook by silent claiming
he was just testing her virtue.
Sidney Rigdon didn't buy it then
and things deteriorated between the two after that.
And soon everybody in town knew about Joseph's botched relationship
romance of Nancy.
And he himself blamed John Bennett for the whole disaster
and their relationship also soon crashed and burned.
And I also want to point out that Joseph for women who refused his advances
he went on a character assassination campaign immediately.
Nancy Rigdon suffered this.
Sarah Pratt suffered this.
A number of women who said no you can't rape me.
He destroyed them.
And anybody they were associated with right?
Like Sidney Rigdon was on his way out.
Joe and him were having conflicts.
But from here like almost immediately after this
Joe tries to excommunicate Sidney Rigdon.
He tries to remove him from the leadership of the church
and the apostles are like hey there's no reason to excommunicate him.
And Joe says I tried to throw the monkey off my back
but you've put him back on right.
Like Joe went scorched earth when these proposals didn't go through.
Yeah there was an incident I can't remember where it is on this timeline
where Rigdon came up to him shooting his mouth off about something
and Joseph beat the crap out of him in the street
and let him and let him go with his tail between his legs.
I don't recall that story but it wouldn't surprise me right.
Like Joe scrapped with a lot of people who confronted him in the street about stuff.
Yeah anyway as you mentioned that was one of the damning evidence
letter a piece of evidence brought in the trial against Joseph with this letter.
Another interesting section the Lawrence and Partridge sisters.
Before we talk about them can we talk about Martha Brotherton really quickly?
Super fast let's do it.
Okay yeah so Martha Brotherton was one of the converts
and a number of these wives were converts from Europe who immigrated to Navu.
Martha Brotherton was one of these who converted under Brigham Young.
Brigham Young selected her and was like I really like you.
So Brigham Young and Joseph Smith created this scenario where they brought Martha Brotherton
into the red brick store and I don't think I've ever shown a picture of the red brick store.
Let me find it real quick because this is going to illustrate
where a lot of these transactions quote unquote transactions actually occurred.
Is this in Navu?
Yeah so this is in Navu and it is today the building is still owned by or is owned by the
community of Christ the RLDS church but this is the red brick store and this was used as Joseph
Smith's makeshift like initiation room and the second the bottom floor of this is where it was
his own store he owned a store right the top floor upper floor is just basically an open room
where they could do all sorts of things including the endowments including the ceilings including
all sorts of things. So Joe brings Martha Brotherton to this upper floor here and he
says Martha I have something to tell you Brigham Young wants to speak with you will you hear him
and she said yes of course so Joseph Smith leaves Brigham Young walks in and locks the
door behind him and close the shades and he asks her if she will be married to him.
She says I don't think this is proper I'm not even 18 this is not okay this is unacceptable I
need some time to think about this and she's just trying to do anything she can to get out of the
situation and Brigham Young keeps pushing her and pushing her and pushing her and pushing her
and finally she says I just need time to think about it and Brigham Young says well will you
hear it from Joseph and so she of course she can't refuse anything in this situation right so she
says yes and Joseph walks in and says there's no sin in this that is commandment of God that you
are to be given to Brigham Young and that he is the best man ever that he will treat you right
will you accept it and she says I need time to think about this I need time to think about this
and he says well you can't leave here until you give us an answer and just to let you know just
like with all these other proposals that God will withdraw the blessings if you do not accept of it
now as she said I just need time to think about it and they didn't let her leave until she gave
Brigham Young a nice little kiss now as a result of that I think we lost you got him I got him
maybe you did okay all right so I got that I got that okay what happened there we don't exactly know
but we do know that Martha Brotherton immediately went home and told her friend about this and wrote
it down in a letter and this letter she sent to John C. Bennett Nancy Rigdon also sent her copy of
the happiness letter to John C. Bennett because John C. Bennett was on the outs with Joseph Smith
Joe had gone way too far for John C. Bennett to still be comfortable with and John Bennett had
been excommunicated from the church he had resigned as mayor of Nauvoo and Joseph Smith had become
you know interim mayor because he was vice mayor and Bennett was being hunted by the Danites right
and this had happened after Porter Rockwell had shot Governor Lilburn Boggs from the Missouri
Mormon War okay okay okay hold on so no I'm not I'm not stopping I'm not stopping get on the damn
bandwagon all right all right. John Bennett defects and he collects tons of information
about all of the stuff that's going on here and he writes it all into letters that are published in
the Sangamo Journal and he publishes a series of these letters during this huge data collection
campaign that he does while he's leaving and while he is hiding out from the Danites right
he is hiding out he is bouncing around from Warsaw to Carthage going out to Indiana
he is running away from the Danites actively every night because they're trying to hunt him
down and kill him because he has way too much information and he is very dangerous in my podcast
I called this the Bennett Meltdown because he catalyzed an absolute meltdown of everything that
happened here it went super critical the whole thing exploded and finally all of these women
realized that John Bennett was their ally and they sent him tons of information and tons of documents
and he collected all of that and published it in his expose titled History of the Saints now
I did a live show on the death of Joseph Smith in Salt Lake City and we just went you know we
did a broad overview an hour and a half of you know the life of Joseph Smith and when I said the
name John C. Bennett a woman from the back of the audience sheared she sheared for him now John Bennett
in Mormon studies is a rascal and he is universally hated among Mormon scholars uh Mormon historians
and when I say Mormon historians I mean actual believing Mormon historians because he revealed
so much he attacked Joseph Smith right he attacked the one true gospel but what he really did and why
this woman sheared is he gave a voice to the voiceless these women coming out by themselves
and telling these stories never would have been believed this would have they would have been
their characters were assassinated women tried Sarah Pratt tried and she was a sail for this
Nancy Rigdon tried and she was a sail for this Martha Brotherton tried and she was a sail but
they got this guy in a high ranking office in government and military a master mason in good
standing with most lodges and they got him to sign his name to their stories and that made it
believable that gave the voices or gave weight to these voices who otherwise never would have had it
without his signature on their data and how ironic is that that it takes a thief to stop a thief kind
of thing because he is except for you shave the serial numbers he is a second Joseph Smith
with all the warts with all the and yet yeah I gotta I gotta ask you guys I in our next episode
while we're still in Navu I really want to ask this question what happened because we don't have
that context in the narrative and so this is so good that you told us a conclusion or somewhat
a conclusion because we really don't look guys do the daynights get him what happens right so like
you know this is stuff that we can talk about but I want to that's a great cliffhanger I want to
ask something I think is important because you had one more person that you wanted to mention Dave
before he brought up the Martha lady and what recently happened here I want to hear that but
after that touch on the sweetest hottest craziest stuff and then I want to hear the positive I want
to hear a woman who said I would love to be your you know is there something that comes out good I
know this is bad and trust me I'm not saying let's root on the system and what happened here I just
want everyone to know that we're not just completely biased to the hardcore end even though we are
biased like there were real accounts of people who liked this lifestyle and maybe you can give
a few of those before we close out this episode yeah well I just want to just preface all this by
saying you're not going to hear this from Mormon historians you know no Mormon that's going to
um Bryce had mentioned uh the website of his is friend who has uh polygamist information um
you look on there you don't get any of these backstories of what was really going on or how
they got into the very very little very little very selective yeah joseph's polygamy is a good
resource for firsthand documents um but you have to understand the broader story because you don't
get it from the individual stories that are told on joseph's polygamy.com so partridge and lauren
sisters yeah and let's let's let's dig uh Emma smith into all this because this is around the time
that joseph finally goes to his wife and says oh guess what i'm gonna have a lot more wise because
god commanded it um yeah and it goes about as well as you would think it would go uh having this
little talk with you skeptical here brice you don't really agree right so i'm i'm in the fringe
believing that Emma was a much more active participant in all of this than most historians
give her credit for uh most say that she was completely ignorant of it that she knew just a
couple of them um i am of the opinion that she was very much plugged into all of this and that she
was an orchestrator of it and that she was uh very powerful in all of this and that very few
polygamous marriages happened without her approval or at least knowledge she's kind of the epstein's
wife right guess max well yeah yeah okay that's and i don't argue with that actually that's fine
i'll just say at this juncture in time uh the weird when he first when he supposedly allegedly
first tells her about it um what we have some memories that she she first threatened to take
a second husband herself or to leave joseph altogether but for whatever reason however it
played out she apparently resigned herself and reluctantly agreed to let her take on more wives
so long as she could pick them and luckily enough prospective wives were already living in the house
with them because there were two pairs of young sisters living with them the partridge sisters
eliza and emily and the laurence sisters sarah and maria both of which were both of those couples
were uh orphans as well exactly not only orphans but rich wealthy orphans right so the partridge
sisters right edward partridge and sydney rigdon were best friends who went out and first met
joseph smith in new york um early early on members edward partridge i's in 1841 i want to say
sarah and maria laurence they had converted while living in canada and they migrated to
navu with wiliam and jane law uh as basically their awards and according to joseph's private
journal on the same day he married the partridge girls he also bought a fine new carriage for emma
which might have helped sweeten the pot a little bit right the laurence sisters also had uh an
estate that they couldn't control because they were under the age of 21 i think it was uh that was
something to the tune of like three thousand dollars which is that's a huge huge chunk of money now
actually even higher than that the numbers i have is that he helped himself to ten thousand dollars
from the partridge estate and eight thousand dollars in english gold from the laurence sisters
which ultimately resulted in a lawsuit against him by the way um uh the lawyer of which he literally
kicked out of his house he kicked him out by the backside well anyway all that aside after a long
and bitter deliberation emma at last said okay emma and elisa will be your wives and they've
got married to seal to joseph on may 11th 1843 unbeknownst to her both girls had already been
secretly married to him two months earlier uh and and that's emily and elisa partridge and then
the laurence sisters are sarah and maria laurence right and they quickly become wife number three
and four except they weren't really wife three and four they were actually his 27th and 28th wife
and he was nowhere finished accumulating more um as we said 49 that we know of that we know of so he
wasn't even halfway done uh or he was just about halfway done just over halfway done um what the
hell dude yeah well yeah it's also notable too that like he had his cake and ate it too right
because like these girls were living as workers in the navu mansion right um and i'm going to
find a picture of the navu mansion really quick because um you know we talked about two episodes
ago the navu house and this was supposed to be joseph smith's hotel that was going to entertain
people from all across the country and bring in investors all over america who are interested
in seeing you know at taking advantage of the location of of navu as his peninsula in the
mississippi that's the navu house right that joe made it like he commanded by god for people to buy
stock in the construction of that house right this is the navu house association
house that they built by the time when he died it was only this complete right it wasn't completed
until that rest of it wasn't completed till after his death what you can't see in the background
is the navu mansion that they built to basically hold him over until the navu house was completed
but he died before that happened right um let me find a picture of the navu house or navu mansion
so interesting guys so here's the navu mansion right so this is the mansion house uh and the
the hotel staff were his teenage wives and emma right she was the boss all of his teenage wives
the lauren sisters the barter sisters jane manning james lived here they were all they were the the
hotel keepers they cleaned the beds they emptied the the chamber pots they cooked the meals uh this
this this was yeah this was for many intensive purposes this was one of many navu brothels
this was the playboy mansion of navu yeah that's right yeah and and by the way brice's
uh crush elisa snow was also employed there as well yeah i had to ask you something about her
before we get off her emma caught her making out with her husband and kicked her out you know beat
the hell out of her and knocked her downstairs that's disputed but you probably probably something
happened so so this lady is involved in this trafficking and she's okay with it knowing the
profit and his hierarchies okay it's a strange way to put it because okay yeah it is uh because
what other option did she have right wait and are you talking elisa or emma right like so if you're
emma in this situation you know you can't control joe's libido no nobody can he can't control his
own libido what option do you have other than just accommodating it appeasing it right so that's
what everyone was practically doing unless they felt they had the guts to stand up and do whatever
but most people were silenced and we see what happened to them sarah prat and nancy rigdon are both
quintessential examples of what happened when somebody opposed the prophet and will of god
right like you you suffered if you opposed him and nobody suffered more than emma herself right
like they do he a couple of times he beat her like he absolutely beat the hell out of emma
to get her to comply with his wishes right like there were these these were ugly times for emma
so all that she could do was bide her time until he was removed or died yeah or arrest i can't wait
till this guy dies by the way i'm just i'm just letting everybody know i can't wait till he does
it takes a powerful man to take this powerful man out it seems or at least a group yeah this guy's
like a like a non-stop freight train this is crazy but the cracks the the the the brass feet or whatever
the feet of clay start showing the the cracks i'm mixing up all my metaphors but anyway the the
flaws in his plan right only continue to grow and let me just jump into this because what was
happening by now this is 1843 the the last year of his life just before the last year of his life
fueled by hard to ignore incidents like all these rumors of Mormon polygamy began to go public
enough to be routinely and earnestly denied in newspapers and publications and scriptures
until finally in 1843 when smith is on wife number 34 if i'm not mistaken he announced this revelation
to his church leaders um his brother Hiram who also had several wives of his own uh new Emma was
very unhappy and offered to break the news of this new revelation to her and joseph said yeah
good luck with that and he came back with his tail between his legs apparently um and as soon as
this revelation was written officially joseph and his brother presented it to Emma who said she
didn't believe a word of it and appeared very rebellious even though it mentions her by name
repeatedly um and according to the revelation uh doctrine 132 still proudly reprinted in every
edition of doctrines and covenants christ commanded the practice of polygamy as a new and everlasting
covenant and declared that anyone who rejects the new practices will suffer damnation and not be
permitted to enter into my glory jesus also said that the wife's consent should be sought before a
man married another wife but if she did not consent to the plural marriage then christ would destroy
the first wife and the husband would exempt from asking the wife's consent in the future right that
detail right there you just said david that's known as the law of sarah and there are very few
other things in mormon history and mormon theology that serve to be a a faith shattering concept
more than the law of sarah basically it says just like you said david the first wife has to give her
approval of every subsequent wife but if she doesn't approve of it she is destroyed and the
husband is at liberty to take that that second third and fourth wife regardless oh here's your
carrot here's your stick boom boom yep that is the most manipulative bs i have ever heard like
that is the next and it's it's like goodness gracious i mean i could see a guy in one case
trying to like convince his wife of adding a third party or something right this is god let's
have a threesome talk this is eternal damnation you will torture you are going to die and suffer
if you don't and there there's nowhere in that clause where it says well you know like no there's
no well you know this is it baby and if you don't follow in line yeah you can almost interpret
destroying a couple different ways i wonder if there's some people who physically could kill
their wife for this i don't know i mean no one's ever likely destroyed there's yeah right yeah
there is so in the in the text of dnc 132 and it is important right i've done a number of episodes
on it uh in naked mormonism as well as my book of mormon like dnc 132 is a massive revelation
with so many implications uh but it also tells it commands mine handmade emma to cleave only
unto your husband joseph right because there's dispute about whether or not joe was like all
right you can take another husband because you're allowing me to take these teenage wives and then
he reneged on that deal no jahova told him so hey his hands are tight exactly uh and so there's
dispute about who that candidate was whether that was actually you know st louis bitumen or
whether that was uh william law because you know william joseph jackson said that emma called william
law a sweet little man uh and he was william law was a great guy um so there was a lot of dispute
about whether or not emma could partake in the celestial covenant or if it was just the men uh
and in that revelation by the text alone it says only joseph can take multiple wives you emma you
get one husband one dick the rest of your life you better like it and you know what's funny about
that statement is that it says what you read there was interesting read david is that well if she
doesn't approve not only like all the pressures on the wife now she can get destroyed but the man
can now act however he wants he can do whatever he wants without her permission so she has no voice
there was no voice in it ever so yeah never never it would yeah back deck from the beginning
and this whole bombshell is what ultimately kills joseph smith this is the beginning of the end
this is where it all flies apart all flies apart i want to pause on that though i don't want to go to
you know so there are there are a few more threats to pick up on this right because um
joseph smith in all of this is he's a horrible misogynist right and he is creating massive
systems of secrecy and abuse uh and i mean for lack of better words
novu Mormonism is a rape cabal right like that's that is what is going on here and he is forcing
women to get abortions who may or may not want those abortions both physical and surgical
which cause them incredible amounts of pain and suffering and it's all to serve his own selfish
ends to gratify his libido with theological justifications underpinning all of it right
and he's not the only one who's enjoying all of the fruits of his labors it's it's his select boys
it's his best friends who are awarded women as commodities for loyalty they are awarded these
gifts these mysteries of the kingdom the new and everlasting covenant as it's called which is a
broad term that's used by Mormons today to refer to celestial marriage being sealing in the temple
but that was coined as a password for polygamy as as you know a way to say polygamy without
saying polygamy um so he's creating these systems and a lot of decisions are made
based on what's going on in these systems and trying to keep a lid on the rumors enough
and also to try and create a system of emotional and physical support for the women who are all
caught up in this and that's what the Relief Society also did right um because these women
are able to support each other as they're withstanding this abuse they're able to help each
other through it and they're also able to to basically be an ear uh for each other when when
they're suffering um and like and these women need this they absolutely need this and Emma is the
orchestrator of the Relief Society but of course the Relief Society gets co-opted by Joseph Smith
because he is able to um I don't know how to say this um stratify uh the the leadership structure
within the Relief Society and this is only found in John Bennett's book uh so most historians don't
lend it a whole lot of credence because they don't see John Bennett as a reliable uh account uh I
take a different tag I think that John Bennett is extremely reliable um with the information that he
presents maybe not his own role in that information because he published his expose to try and divorce
himself away from any of this criminal activity uh but the information itself is is I believe very
solid but we find in his book uh under the chapter the Mormons' Surallio uh the three uh the three
groups of the the the Relief Society the first one are the Cyprian Saints and I'm going to read
his descriptions of each of these very briefly because it's important to understand within the
context of all of this uh uh the members of the Female Relief Society who are ever upon the watch
for victims have the power when they know or even suspect that any Mormon female has however slightly
lapsed from the straight path of virtue without the sanction or knowledge of the prophet
or bringing her at once before the Inquisition in caps right so the the these the Cyprian
Saints this is the lowest level these are the women who know that polygamy is going on
they're on the watch for women who stray from the path of virtue um and who they can bring in
to basically target and mark to become one of the the chosen men wives or to become a sex worker
right um and then they they bring them in front of these Inquisitions that the Relief Society holds
and they determine her chastity they they hold basically a tribunal on whether or not she has
chased and fit and worthy to be a member of the Relief Society so the system of grooming
that Joseph Smith established is now uh is now codified and streamlined for the women to be able
to affect that abusive system this is a system this is not a guy who's horny runs down the street
sleeps with your wife or tries to sneak your daughter or manipulate one person they have like
capitalized this thing it's a machine it is a rape cabal right so those are the Cyprian
Saints and that's the lowest level of the people who know that it's going on um and they're led
on a little of the mysteries they just you know they're they're basically told that you know the
rumors are true um the next group are the chambered sisters of charity and Bennett says this order
comprises that class of females who indulge their sensual propensities the women who may enjoy a
non-monogamous lifestyle right without restraint whether married or single by the express permission
of the prophet so one thing about this too Joe was a gatekeeper for all the marriages that
happened um monogamous or polygamous marriages um everything ran through him because he's a
crime lord he's a kingpin everything that happens in Navu whether out in broad daylight or in the
seedy underbelly in the alleys after dark Joe knows about it it happens with his knowledge
um it isn't until Brigham Young that stuff happens only with his knowledge the prophet's
knowledge and approval but Joe knows what's going on he's got birdies everywhere right so
that's the second degree and and it's it's no coincidence that these women are broken up into
three separate degrees and that Emma says that um we are here to determine if you are good masons
right so this is patterned after Masonic societies uh and Masonic uh hierarchical structures uh so
the second degree is these chambered sisters of charity and finally the third degree the highest
ascension that these women can achieve is the consecratees of the cloister or the cloistered
saints now if you understand the term consecrate in Mormonism that is the system of communalistic
living when you consecrate property to the church you're giving your capital owned property to the
church to do whatever the church needs to to do with that property um Mormon communalism some of
the earliest tenets that are you know captured in the book of Mormon it doesn't even take Joe's
later revelations to create a system of Mormon communalism these are the consecrated sisters
these are literally the way you consecrate your property you consecrate yourself as a woman
to the use of the church now it says this degree is composed of females whether married or unmarried
who by an express grant and gift of god through his prophet the holy joe are set apart and consecrated
to the use and benefit of particular individuals as secret spiritual wives these are the most chosen
perfect elect and oftentimes most beautiful sisters that the men are able to pass around to each other
and Cindy Rigdon even said that that Willard Richards and and another man were like passing
around one of these women as under he called it the sanctimonious garb of priesthood right
but these were important and powerful women in the Mormon hierarchy and in the Relief Society
leadership one of which was Eliza R Snow right another expose that was written about early
Navu Mormonism was written by a guy named Joseph Jackson and this guy joins the church he's
another scoundrel another opportunist but he joins the church he gets on Joe's good graces
he says that the whole botched Governor Boggs assassination thing that Porter Rockwell screwed
up and now Porter's in jail hey tell you what Joe give me everything that I need to accomplish this
and I'll go not only finish the job that Porter botched you know I'll go kill Boggs finish him
off but also break Porter out of jail so Joseph Jackson gets on good Joe's good graces and writes
his own expose of Joseph Smith and he talks about the women who are special or who are
quote-unquote great captains to Joseph Smith now I want to read from Joseph Jackson's expose he says
he Joseph spoke of his spiritual wives particularly and called them great captains in
his service to carry his design and remarked that through them he could get any stranger's money
I asked him that how he would work the matter to which he replied that he had only to tell
certain of his spiritual wives that such a man had been in the Missouri war they were an enemy of
the church right they had been in the Missouri war and that he should be put out of the way
and his property and money consecrated to the use of the church then said Joseph it is damned easy
for them to got into his good graces and mix a white powder with his victuals and put him out of the
way whoa not the last time we're gonna hear about a white powder taking out a Mormon person
that's right so these women were not only participants in this rape cabal and bringing
more women into this horrifically abusive system but they were also participating in the criminal
empire that was Mormonism that's what I was gonna say Bryce murdering enemies of the gospel
one of the problems that I see and this is just something I've been you know I like watching the
tv shows id channel other things like where people are doing cult things like this it never
is successful if women aren't participants in this matter if it's just a bunch of guys with
libido and we think with our other head we're gonna mess something up it's gonna crash before it even
takes off if you have women involved the system will really like become something successful
in and I don't mean that to say it in a good way I mean in a bad way really but the fact that it
survives and thrives you need women to help oil and grease this thing and this is unbelievable
you have assassins you have the danites and you have the females that are helping you
yeah so this like we also shouldn't mince words here right like these women
benefited from being great captains right they they got the nicest houses they got to
attend all of the most exclusive cool parties in navu when dignitaries and politicians would come
into navu these are the women who would be at the same parties right these these women enjoyed an
elevated status in society uh that was granted to them by their their willingness to go along with
the plans of a criminal kingpin okay forget it HBO HBO no quit in Tarantino are you listening
yeah no right yeah let me ask you one more thing brice so that i have your words correct and i'm
not misinterpreting what you just said these women could be passed around okay their spirit
they're married to these high men in the Mormon society Mormon church and they're used as kind of
sex bait so to speak for people they want to take out and they'll target the people they want out
using these assassin type of women and these higher higher guys are okay with like sending
them in are these also being shared amongst each other like these women well that's that
taps into some large questions that historians bicker about uh with navu polygamy in general and
to be clear um yes everything that you said yeah those are essentially my words i also want to
note that um using these women to assassinate somebody who needed to be put out of the way
quote unquote put out of the way that was probably exceptionally rare and i don't know if we have any
names of these individuals uh who did this um but exceptionally rare uh when it did occur okay i also
want to say that there it was a huge spectrum they ran the gamut right because in that same
expose that jackson talks about these certain women who were the great captains he also talks
about the women who were the the standard seamstresses who were so abused and degraded
and they were promised that they would have food on their table if they just were married
but that he found them in just destitute and starving situations and they were just degraded
they were defiled and they they were just they were the lowest of the low the cheapest of the
chief sex workers and so it ran this this spectrum it ran this whole gamut right and at the higher
echelons right you're a system uh you're creating this system of of polygamy that we call it today
but in many ways it's also an experiment in free love right like if we're all it's and this is part
of the theology and i'm glad why we did last episode on the theology of this because the
theology also underpins all this we're all members of this huge celestial family right and
what are these these stupid divides that we place on each other in this temporal affair
that we call marriage matrimony what even is that we're all part of this same huge celestial
family we all get to enjoy what it is to be human and to exist and to survive and happiness and
pleasure and all of these things and things that are wrong under one circumstance may very well be
right under another circumstance so there are people who are also experimenting in this
secretive group of free love that are probably also really having a good time and really enjoying
it and and and to say that the some women were being passed around implies that it's like the
man controlling it but also provided not an opportunity for women to say i'm not really
turned on by my husband um you know if i if i uh go to another person another man in this this
system in this big celestial family then um you know i he i'm more attracted to him uh and i can
you know i can enjoy my time with him a little bit more um so it runs this huge spectrum uh
and it's all coercive it all requires grooming it all requires uh systems of abuse and it all
requires uh man running this at the top uh in this patriarchal system but also requires women to be
leaders within the confines that he dictates of that system to get other women to comply and to
go along with that system so when people say just carte blanche that polygamy is abusive or
that it that these women were all like it was all horrible they're failing to take into account a
lot of the nuances that really exist within all of this and when people say for example that
Emma was largely unaware of all of these things that were going on she was president of the Relief
Society and all of the leadership of the Relief Society were almost all her sister wives or you
know their daughters were her sister wives like there's no way that she didn't not only didn't
know about this but that that she wasn't also a part of the orchestration and the organization
of this system we need to pay attention to this fact Emma Smith in 1844 was basically the most
powerful and wealthy woman in America Joseph Smith in order to get away from a lot of his creditors
attempted to file for bankruptcy but in order to do that he had to get rid of a bunch of his
assets so he transferred almost all of his assets to Emma to his wife to file for bankruptcy that
bankruptcy application was denied but Emma retained a possession of most of those things
so when Joseph is exercising power on on Emma coercing her into agreeing to him taking multiple
wives she also has a lot of cards in her hand and that is the optics of the perfect Mormon couple
that Joseph and Emma are she has the power to file for divorce and to leave him how does that look to
the prophet right that is a lot of problems she holds a lot of that power in her hands
she holds more property in Navu legally speaking than Joseph Smith does incredibly wealthy and
more importantly she holds power and sway over thousands of women in Navu as president of the
Relief Society Emma is a lot more powerful in Navu than most historians give her credit for
and to say that she was largely ignorant of what was going on here I think does a disservice to
who Emma really was should we pin that I was gonna say we're not gonna get much better than that
I will I will wrap by saying the mantle of the president of Relief Society and and Emma being
this incredibly powerful individual in Navu Emma and Brigham Young hated each other they hated
each other and Brigham Young saw that women having power was a massive threat so he dissolved
the Relief Society and it wasn't until the late 1850s that he allowed Eliza R Snow to reorganize
it in Utah and in all of this Eliza R Snow was one of these women who I believe just outright
enjoyed exploring sexual liberty just just enjoyed what this system had created because she was so
damn powerful in Navu as second in command to Emma and Eliza R Snow is one of these people who her
own writings she's a poet her poetry is absolutely amazing um in her own writings she reveals how
she was conflicted when she was first proposed to by Joseph Smith but that she came to love it
she came to thrive in polygamy and there we should never try and be reductionist about polygamy
because it includes such a massive swath of different experiences and different explorations
and there is absolutely no evidence to claim that monogamy is the best system for society
to be constructed around and that's just as true in the 1840s as it is today absolutely I do agree
with that actually I know that a lot of people who watch might not that's okay but I have friends
that uh have multiple wives for example and those wives like each other but they also are his and
you know like they they freely want that so this is not their dad or a religious coercion or uh
you will be married to this person because uh his dad gave me three donkeys okay like this is this
is something they wanted they go to clubs that are like this this is the lifestyle they want
and so um you know not everybody's the same so I really appreciate that this is just oh my gosh
it shows how grotesque something like this is ultimately and how something like that could
hide behind religion so well um but it also kind of explores like you said closing out there that
there isn't it's not always darkness there I suspect the introduction to her probably wasn't good
because it's a religious thing but her experiences in that thing might have been good for her and
she says they were so it goes to show you like I suspect when Joseph Smith came up she's not like
yeah I can't wait you know like there's religious demand but when the actions start happening
she's turned on by it whereas other girls are not they're not digging this they're not like that
so not everybody's the same and maybe if there was an open discussion without the religion
involved without the forcefulness without this and it said look what if we were okay as a society
we start to allow this open idea um not that you're gonna go to hell not that you're gonna get
tortured not that any of this if you're interested in seeing Bob and Joe and Joe's interested in
seeing Sally and Sue or whatever then that's a different topic but we're getting into open marriage
we're getting into open relationships which I myself I'm not even sure I'd be uh comfortable
with something like that just personally I'm like yeah you know I don't know I'm very alpha male like
and very territorial um I don't mean to be it's just I was raised like this so here we go with
the way people are raised so you're raised like that I was operating within the confines of monogamous
Christian America I'm this this puritanical idea of you know the nuclear family it's it's
antiquated there's no evidence to say that it's the best system or even what is the best system
but what we can recognize is that uh individuals who use systems like this for their own aggrandizement
are always dangerous right and there's there's evidence that I believe that Joseph Smith even
killed his younger brother so that he could marry his sister-in-law um there's there's evidence that he
that Joe even tried to uh propose to his own youngest sister um there's there's some really
dark and shady aspects of this right because one thing about Joe is he was never content
he always had to amp it up he always had to be do do with the next more exciting more taboo thing
and that amount of power wielded by one human being is dangerous and we can never forget this
Joseph Smith was a religious revolutionary he didn't want just Nauvoo to look like that
he wanted the world to look like that he reveled in the term that people gave him
the Mormon Muhammad he he uh when he was taking uh breakfast with one of his friends
one of his friends says I suspected that uh you would have a small table like uh like Napoleon
Bonaparte and Emma looked over while she was fixing their breakfast and said oh my husband
is a bigger man than Bonaparte and Joseph looked at her and said that may be the smartest thing
I've ever heard you say right he absolutely admired tyrants and that is a dangerous human
being especially just wielding this much power and that's only going to become more and more
and more dangerous as we get closer to the end of his life and we're getting very close yeah
David any final saying here uh you know I meant to start out this uh talk with a quote from him
saying where did he say it we made David like reorder all his notes so he's he's all sorts
of disorganized sorry about that man uh I can't find it it was a quote to the effect of uh oh yeah
here it is whenever I see a pretty woman I have to pray for grace Joseph once remarked to a friend
and we have done so much further than that little quote took us because this has been so much more
nuanced and fascinating and again Mormonism isn't just one thing religion isn't just one thing it's
a whole universe and and we are really touched on a lot of stuff and we're gonna keep doing that
through this series and I'm fascinated by it I'm not sure that uh I I think I relate to that when I
see a very pretty woman I I have to catch myself as well naturally but I know I have my I don't
know I have walls that I they have like I'm very careful I'm not an idiot um and I won't get into
my personal life about me my wife and how things are but I ultimately will say that uh I can relate
to that but if you go on without a leash and you have the power goodness gracious you guys see what
happens especially when it's ordained by God so ladies and gentlemen this is Joseph Smith early
Mormonism but you're going into the polygamy side and the next episode we're gonna get into we're
gonna talk back in history goodness gracious we are in Navu and there's some crap going on I cannot
wait to see what's happening I hope um that you guys can see the darkness that can come from religious
systems like this and why I love being a secular humanist who's focused on progressing and being a
better human being and planet earth and ladies and gentlemen I digress so with that being said
we are myth vision
you
