Dr. Bart Ehrman on the Unknown Gospels.
Today, we're going to be discussing his course.
Make sure you sign up, mythvisionpodcast.com,
forward slash unknown gospels.
We're going to be discussing the gospels,
their impact, how scholars read them versus lay people,
or really even how apologists might read the gospels
versus critical historical method.
I highly recommend checking out the courses
so you can better understand what are these pieces
of literature?
What kind of genre do they fit into?
And of course, Dr. Bart Ehrman's going to take
a magnifying glass to this.
In fact, this course on the gospels is going to be longer
and more in depth than any of the previous courses
he has done.
Don't forget to sign up in the link
at mythvisionpodcast.com, forward slash unknown gospels.
It helps myth vision out if you do so,
and if you want to educate yourself further,
I'm going to be there, and I hope you are too.
Dr. Bart Ehrman, welcome back to mythvisionpodcast.
I hope you're doing well with that COVID over there in Europe.
Actually, I've got, actually, I'm in America,
and I have COVID.
Oh, you're back.
I had to come back, yeah, yeah.
I had to come back, yeah, I had to come back
for a family emergency, but then when I got here,
I got COVID.
Well, I hope you're recovering well.
Mild symptoms.
Well, Dr. Ehrman, if I may,
you have this course that we're about to launch
on the unknown gospels.
Well, they've been known for a few millennias,
so let me give a jab at what I think you mean by this title.
We've been reading these as Christians, if you will,
for millennia through tradition,
and finally, scholarship has in the past few centuries
really parsed it out and said,
hold on, something's going on in each gospel.
You made the bold claim in the Genesis program.
I highly recommend everybody sign up for that one,
but the greatest discovery we found out
is that the Bible is written by different authors.
And I think you're trying to emphasize the point
that there are different voices,
and it's not all one message.
Is this idea of the unknown gospels titled
that way for people to realize like,
we have not been paying attention
to what these are really about?
Yeah, so I kind of like the title.
So the full title is The Unknown Gospels
and Colin, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,
because people, if they just,
if I just called it the unknown gospels,
they'd think I'd be talking about like the other,
the non-canonical gospels.
But my point in the series is that the gospels
of the New Testament are widely unknown in a sense.
The Bible's the most read book probably on the planet,
and the gospels are probably the most read books
of the New Testament.
But they're read not only by lay people
who want to read them for their faith
or to understand the world better
or out of curiosity or for out of historical interest.
They're also read by scholars who are interested
in knowing about them, really knowing about them
from a historical point of view to understand them.
And scholars have been studying these gospels.
Of course, scholars have studied the gospels
since the second Christian century,
but modern scholars have been studying them
since the 18th century, the end of the 18th century.
And scholars have devoted themselves
to understanding these books
and have learned ancient languages,
Greek and Aramaic and Hebrew and Latin
to understand them better.
And they've studied the Roman Empire
and they've said scholars have dug into these things.
Many scholars spent their entire lives doing it.
And the tragedy is that so many lay readers
who would be interested in knowing
what experts have to say about it, don't know.
They don't know what scholars say.
And so my course is meant to be a course,
an eight lecture course that tries to present
to lay people on their terms,
what scholars say about these books.
What would you say are the biggest differences
in understanding how lay people,
just common churchgoers read the gospels and the scholars?
I think there are several things.
One is that the average churchgoer just assumes
that Matthew, Mark, Luke and John
are all telling the same story.
They might be slightly different versions of it,
but they're basically, you know,
they're telling the same thing.
And it's natural to read them that way
because they're within the same book.
And normally when you read a book,
you know, if you've got a book that has 27 chapters,
like the New Testament has 27 books,
if you read a book with 27 chapters,
you don't expect chapter two
to be radically different from chapter one.
If it's covering this similar material,
it's got to be basically the same point of view.
And that's what you read the Bible.
People read the Bible that way, of course.
And part of it is that they read,
they'll read people hardly ever read all of Matthew,
then all of Mark and all of Luke and all of John.
But even if they do, they just assume that it's all,
you know, saying the same thing.
And what scholars realize is
they're not all saying the same thing.
And it takes a certain way of reading them
to understand that.
It takes a certain way of knowing
what these books are about and reading them as distinct.
So that's one really big thing.
And once you start seeing how they're different,
it's not just that there are contradictions
in these books, which there are,
or that they emphasize different themes, which they do.
Part of the point is, is that if you recognize
that Mark is different from Luke,
it forces you to understand what Mark is trying to tell you
without pretending that he's saying the same thing
John is saying, it makes a huge difference.
It just opens up interpretation in ways
that people would not realize.
They would just never ever, and they never do realize.
I love your enthusiasm about this.
And I have an enthusiasm as well
on wanting to understand these books.
I was captivated like you as a fundamentalist.
And then of course you're still in love with it,
but in a different way.
So if I may ask something I haven't heard anyone ask before,
who are the top three scholars
who have really shaped your understanding
of the gospels more than anyone else?
And why were they so influential to you?
Wow, I've never thought about it like that.
You're talking about understanding the gospels as gospel,
like as stories rather than understanding the gospels
as historical texts, I assume.
And you're referring to people who've influenced me
that other people could read.
Not just, yeah, boy, that's a very tough question
because I've read so many thousands of books
and articles on the gospels that it's very difficult
to pick three that have really changed my views.
In some ways, my views of the gospels have been,
a lot of it was formed in my graduate education
with my graduate professors,
especially a man named David Adams
who completely were revolutionized
my understanding of the gospels,
unfortunately, never published a book on them.
But he absolutely convinced me away
from being an evangelical Christian
who thought they all were saying the same thing
to realizing that they're all different from each other.
And so, okay, so like Raymond Brown,
major scholar of the New Testament,
had a major influence on my reading of them.
George Werner Kuml,
who wrote a standard introduction to the New Testament
was a German scholar who had a major effect
of my understanding of the gospels.
And just, you know, I picked someone else.
There are many people who have written accounts
of these four gospels being different from each other.
For example, an influential book
when I was in graduate school
was by a guy named Keith Nicol on the Synoptic Gospels.
So sorry, I could list 100 names
of influential important scholars.
Thank you so much, Dr. Abram, appreciate that.
Look, this is more of a personal question, I guess,
but do your ears perk up when someone says
they're a fundamentalist or a Christian apologist
while trying to make arguments about the gospels?
Like, are you anticipating them to typically make arguments
to justify their faith more than use
in a historical critical method?
Does that happen?
Like, hey, if you know someone's an apologist
and they're going to make arguments about the gospels,
do you tend to kind of have this kind of ears perk up
and go, oh gosh, what am I about to hear?
Does that ever happen?
Well, no, the thing with a Christian apologist
is that typically they don't tell you something
you don't know, but that you haven't heard a lot.
And so it's very rare for me to have a discussion
with a Christian apologist who says something
that other Christian apologists haven't said,
or that I haven't, I mean, and so it's,
so that's my experience.
Usually what it means is, if somebody says,
I'm an apologist and this is what I think about X,
I almost invariably know what's coming.
That doesn't mean I disrespect what's coming,
or that I think I don't need to answer what's coming,
but it's very little throws you for a loop.
Whereas if you're dealing with a scholar
who is a historical scholar who's written an article
on a new aspect of the gospels,
they'll often will say something that you had not heard before.
And so it's a very different thing,
reading historical scholarship
from reading what apologists have to say.
So this is gonna be more of a blunt question.
And you go into this in your courses,
so make sure you sign up,
because this is all going to be exhaustively dealt with
through the courses.
Were any of the four gospels written
by Jesus as direct disciples?
Short answer, no.
In my judgment, which is the judgment
of most historical scholars,
your apologists would disagree,
but the historical evidence indicates almost certainly not.
I have another course on this, by the way,
that people can see, it's on barterman.com.
It's called, did Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
write Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John?
And so it takes a while for me to demonstrate
that in fact, there are very, very good reasons
for knowing, really, virtually knowing
that these were not written by Jesus to typos.
They don't claim to be,
none of the gospels claims to be written
by one of Jesus' earthly followers.
The gospels are written in high level,
very educated literary Greek,
by people who had advanced Greek education.
Jesus closest disciples in the New Testament
are lower class peasants from Galilee,
who speak Aramaic, don't even know Greek.
John, for example, in the book of Acts,
John, the apostle John, is said to be illiterate.
And so the idea that they,
how did they learn highly literate Greek?
This is, they didn't have adult education
in the ancient world to learn how to compose books,
took years of training,
and it started when you were a young child.
And so none of the disciples had that.
So that's just some of my reasoning,
but it takes an entire course to explain it,
and they can check it out on my website.
So this one also is gonna get covered, I'm sure.
But are there any of the gospels
that are direct eyewitness accounts
or literally based on eyewitness testimony,
as far as you're concerned?
I think, well, none claim to be,
none of the four claim to be.
There are gospels outside the New Testament
that claim to be, the gospel of Peter,
claims to be written by Peter,
the gospel of Thomas, claims to be written by Thomas,
et cetera, et cetera.
So there are later gospels that claim to be,
but none of the New Testament gospels do,
and none of the gospels we have come from an eyewitness.
No.
That leads me to ask,
did any of these authors really care
about what really happened,
or would they kind of make stuff up
about Jesus for other reasons?
I don't think that's an either or question.
I don't think it's either they made it all up
or it's all historically accurate.
I think it's like most historical sources,
the gospels contain historically reliable information,
and they contain information that's legendary.
There's both fact and fiction,
if you wanna put it like that in the gospels.
But it doesn't mean that the gospel writers
are making it up.
The gospel writers almost certainly
have acquired their information from other sources.
We know, for example, that Matthew copied
most of the gospel of Mark into his.
93% of Mark's gospel is replicated in Matthew's gospel.
And so he has a source of information.
Most people who have sources of information,
whether the sources are written or oral,
if they repeat the story,
they tend to repeat them because they think they're reliable.
And so my sense is that the gospel authors believe
that what they recounted is probably what happened.
That doesn't mean that they're right.
Just like today, if you hear a rumor,
just because somebody says it and they think it's true,
it doesn't mean it's true.
You need to check it out.
We're an urban legend or whatever.
And so I don't think it's an either or.
I do think the gospel writers thought that what they wrote.
I think, I don't know.
Of course, we don't know what they thought.
It's hard enough to figure out what they wrote.
You can't get into their heads.
And so there's no way to know.
But my guess is they probably thought,
yeah, this is what happened.
Very interesting.
Can we understand the non-canonical gospels
telling us something important about the canonical ones?
As far as the genre is concerned,
does that kind of literature
kind of reflect on the canonical ones?
And to follow into that, if I may,
can we actually trust the canonical ones
to give us more reliable information
about the historical Jesus rather than non-canonical?
Yeah, these are good questions.
And I'll deal with the second one first.
The reason for thinking that the canonical gospels
have more reliable information
largely has to do with their date and their sources.
The canonical gospels probably date from 40 to 70 or 80.
I'm sorry, from 40, right.
Let me get my date straight in my head.
From 40 to 60 or 65 years after Jesus' death.
They are by far our earliest.
Our gospel writers, the New Testament gospel writers
would not have known, I witnesses probably,
but they would have had sources of information
that had been floating around for some decades,
some overall and some written,
and some of that probably is historical.
Once you get outside the New Testament,
once you get saved to the gospel of Peter,
now you're talking to a book that's written like 90 years,
100 years later.
Once you get to, you know, some of these later,
most of the later gospels are from the third,
fourth, fifth centuries.
And so what's the likelihood
that they have reliable information
that wasn't already spread about in the canonical gospel?
So it's largely a matter of date
and the available sources at the time
that make the canonical gospels different in a sense,
but they're not different as a group per se.
I mean, each one of them is different.
I mean, Mark is in a very different situation from John.
I mean, Mark is probably 25 years earlier.
And so, you know, that's 25 years.
And so there are differences within them.
One of the values of the non-canonical gospels
is the one that you mentioned.
When you realize that there are other gospels,
it makes you realize that the four
are not just a thing unto themselves.
There were lots of people telling and writing about Jesus
that happened before our canonical gospels.
We know that because we think we know it
because Luke says so in the gospel of Luke in chapter one,
the first several verses, Luke says
that many people have undertaken
to write an account of the life of Jesus.
And he says that these accounts are based
on what the eyewitnesses originally said
and then what ministers of the word
originally, what ministers of the word said afterwards.
And so these are stories that have been passed on
first by eyewitnesses, then by people
who are leaders of churches, preaching sermons
and whatnot, ministers of the word.
And then people wrote them down and he says many people did.
So lots of people are writing down stories
and telling stories.
And the fact that we have these other gospels,
we have about 40 from the early centuries,
the early centuries of Christianity,
about 40 gospels, some of them complete,
but most of them just partial fragments
that have been discovered.
We show that people are writing accounts
of the life of Jesus.
Our gospels of the New Testament are four of those accounts.
They're not like a group, when Matthew wrote,
he wasn't planning on his book being put
into a collection with Mark, Luke and John
so that you would read them as one book.
He was writing his own book, as was whoever wrote
the gospel Peter, as was whoever wrote the gospel Judas,
as well, et cetera, for all 45 or so of them.
And so knowing these other gospels shows us
what's going on in early Christianity
is that people are telling stories about Jesus
and writing stories about Jesus
in light of what they already think
and believe about Jesus.
And what they think and believe about Jesus
has changed how they remember his life.
Every gospel is like that.
It's very clear with the non-canonical gospels,
but then it's the same thing with the canonical gospels.
It's true of Mark and Luke and John and Matthew as well.
These are accounts by people who have heard stories
and have molded them in light of what
they personally think and believe.
I have recently interviewed a scholar, Robin Faith Walsh.
I don't know if you've heard of her.
Yeah.
And her book is an interesting one that's arguing
that it seems highly sophisticated at least
in the Greco-Roman literary culture.
The origins of the gospels may have been written
by elites competing to write different accounts.
She doesn't discredit the idea that there are communities
behind these, but kind of like the satiricon,
it seems to be riffing off of like Peter
and the cock crowing on the third cock crow's thrice,
things like that.
And there's interesting ideas there
where the literary corpus of what we see
in the gospels and stuff might be competitive
with each other.
Could that account for why Matthew's like,
you know what, I like Mark, but I don't like Mark.
I'm gonna fix this and write a better quote unquote gospel
Are you aware of her thesis
or do you have any opinions on this?
Yeah, I know it's being a widely read book right now.
And I think she's a very smart person.
And the way you've summarized it just now
is I think is absolutely right.
I mean, Luke tells us that.
Luke tells us that everybody else has written an account.
Now he wants to write an accurate one.
And that's particularly interesting
because one of his sources appears
to have been the gospel of Mark,
which by implication suggests that he doesn't think
that Mark wrote a particularly accurate account.
And so she's taking this to a different level
because she's well versed in what was happening
when literary elite at the period.
And I think that she's right.
These gospel writers are Christian literary elite,
which is one reason, by the way,
they were not disciples and they're literary elite.
They're not elite in the sense that Petronikus was
who wrote, you know, the satirica.
I mean, he's like, he's right up there
like the top half of 1%.
He's way, way up there.
And the gospel writers are right up that high,
but they're far above the normal human being at the time.
And so it's an interesting idea.
And part of it, you know, it depends
on how you want to understand the relationship
of these four gospels.
It's clear that Matthew and Luke used Mark,
you know, is Luke competing with Matthew?
Maybe if he knows Matthew,
which more people are thinking now,
although I'm not convinced by yet,
a lot of people now are thinking
that John knew Matthew, Mark and Luke.
And I'm not convinced by that either, but it might be right.
And if so, then I think in every case,
that the way you summarize it is probably right.
Each one is writing their account
because they have a better way of doing it.
Otherwise, they wouldn't write their own account.
They would write, you know, they would write a,
you know, they would just copy the old account.
I think at the very least one would say,
they know of Mark or something,
at least of one account.
Even if you want to say Luke didn't know Matthew,
but he definitely knew Mark or whatever.
It's interesting to see how that plays out.
But one interesting thing I've heard you say,
and I wonder if this is just because consensus
for the longest time placed Luke Axe in the 80s.
I think you said 85 is where you usually would put that.
Richard Pervo in his commentary on Luke Axe,
and then of course, Steve Mason,
he wrote a really interesting thing
that I was kind of blown away with
that looks like Axe knows of Josephus's writings in 93.
Would you possibly push Luke Axe
to at least post 93 AD, maybe even later?
So that is a move among scholars to date Axe later
because of what many people think shows a connection
with writings of Josephus.
Pervo was a scholar of Axe,
and Mason is a scholar of Josephus.
And so that's a strong combination.
I've yet to be convinced by that argument,
but because I think it's very, very difficult
to show dependence of one author on another.
I think it's a high, I'd consider it a high bar.
And to date it in the 120s would suggest
that it seemed to be quotations
in possibly earlier writings.
And what it looks like from Luke
are not actually quotations of Luke.
And so you get some of the church fathers, for example,
who may know Luke before 120,
but I have no particular problem with it.
If I become convinced, I become convinced.
It doesn't change that much for me
if Axe is written in the 120s.
I would say that if it is,
I do think Luke was written by the same author.
So we put both Luke and Axe
after the end of the first century.
I already think the second Peter was after the first century
and I have no qualms of thinking Luke Axe was.
It would change some things
in that it would actually make it
Axe less likely to be historical in many ways
and make Luke problematic for other ways.
But I have no principled objection to it.
Bart, I have one more thing
and this gets into the Jerry Springer
in the world of online YouTube.
There is a clip that you particularly were mentioned on
with Lydia and Tim McGrew
on a YouTube channel called Testify.
And if I may play just a snippet
to give you a taste of the conversation,
this is in regards to their whole,
they talk about undesigned coincidences and here we go.
Right, now Bart clearly got caught completely
without even having looked at undesigned coincidences.
And so he naturally misrepresents the argument.
Again, he's a master at this.
But what Lydia said when she was set this up,
she said this word casual, right?
These things are casual connections.
That's actually the strength of the case.
It's not to author saying more or less the same thing
in a similar set of words.
That's exactly not what we're talking about.
So this is all beside the point.
And of course, Bart loves to argue by the Jericho method
instead of actually conducting an assault.
He walks around and rounds some topic,
uttering some platitudes in the hopes
that it'll just fall down eventually.
Okay, there you have it, Bart.
What do you think about Tim and Lydia McCrew's
maximal case for the resurrection?
They're not even willing to go with Gary Habermas
and go with the other apologists who say,
well, we're gonna make a minimal facts,
but they say if you can see that little bit,
you almost give it all up.
So they have to die on a hill of making a maximal case.
In terms of the maximal facts?
Yes.
I have to say, I wasn't quite sure
what his critique of me was.
It'd be nice if there were some substance to it.
But okay, so it sounded more like an ad hominem attack
than like, so it would have been nice
if he talked about some data, which is what I prefer doing.
I prefer talking about data.
And the same thing with maximalist facts.
It's fine to accumulate maximalist facts.
Sure, that's great.
You have to establish each one as being probable,
highly probable.
And so, of course, the total maximalist fact approach
is to say that everything the gospel says is true.
Okay, that's the maximum.
You got everything now.
And so the only way to proceed in a debate like that
is for them to mention one of their maximalist facts
and let historians evaluate it.
They probably know that both with those casual coincidences
that he's talking about and his maximalist facts
is that they simply aren't, you know,
they're not convincing to most scholars.
I understand they've got this kind of apologetic thing going
and they're trying to convince people who are not scholars,
but how many bona fide scholars of the New Testament
have they convinced by any of this?
And if they, you know, so the only way to be convincing
is to marshal data and talk about it.
So if you happen to know what some of those
maximalist facts are, I'm happy to address them.
I actually do not wanna get into all those details.
I just figure I'd mention this in particular
because this is the ongoing dispute.
They're picking apart Mike Lacona and Gary Habermas
and the minimal facts guys who are trying to make the case
and they're going quit, given the skeptics an inch,
they're gonna take a mile and it seems like
they're trying to say, no, it's all maximalist
even though we wouldn't wanna put them in a camp of inerrancy
or trying to pretend there aren't contradictions.
They'll say, yeah, there are some,
but they're not even important
or they try to downplay the importance of these things
from the arguments I've heard.
It seems like they're still trying to once again,
you know, this is true
and everybody should know this is true.
So what I would say is that it's, you know,
it isn't that what you should decide
whether you wanna be a maximalist or a minimalist.
What you have to decide is what would be the,
when Habermas or these others come up
with their minimalist things,
what they're talking about are points
that most historians agree on.
And there's a kind of a leverage there
because they say, look,
even people don't believe in the resurrection
would agree on this.
And then once they get there,
then they can start mounting their argument
based on those minimal facts.
If you take a different approach
and you want to increase that number,
that's absolutely fine,
but then you're not gonna be able to have that leverage
because you're gonna be making points
that not everybody's gonna agree with.
And so you don't have that leverage anymore.
And so it's fine if they wanna take that approach.
I have no objection.
I would take the same approach,
their argument, I take to any argument.
You look at the data and you analyze it.
And so, yeah, that's what I would suggest they do.
I suggest the audience goes and signs up
for this course on the gospels.
I think they're gonna learn a thing or two.
Can you plug it real quick from your own words?
Like, why is this so important?
Well, the gospels, as I often say,
the Bible is the most widely read and revered book
in our civilization.
And the gospels are the most widely read
and revered books in the Bible.
Millions and billions of people read them
and believe them, scholars read them
and scholars study them based on pretty advanced methods
that scholars have to learn, ancient languages,
Greek and Hebrew and Latin and Aramaic and so on.
And they have to learn literary methods of analysis
and they have to learn about Roman culture and Roman history.
They spend their life studying these things,
but the results of scholarship are rarely known
among lay readers.
And it's too bad because these scholars,
they're not just people who are trying
to trash the gospels.
These are, most of them are believing scholars
who are believing Christians, some of us are not,
but we all are interested in approaching
the gospels historically.
And understanding the gospels from the perspective
of this kind of scholarship opens up their meaning.
It shows you what they really are all about.
And so it's a real shame that most people don't know
what it is that scholars say.
So this course is eight lectures,
trying to show at a lay person's level
what it is scholars have discovered about these gospels
that can be helpful for understanding them,
whether it's somebody who's a Christian or a non-Christian
or it's just interested in history
or culturally interested in.
Knowing about this material is really important
and that's what this set of lectures is designed to do.
Thank you so much for your time, Dr. Ehrenman
and never forget, ladies and gentlemen,
we are MythVision.
Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos
that I have worked hard in high quality content
that are not in public domain.
They're only on the Patreon.
You will also have direct access to me,
referring academics, questions, ideas,
or just want a private chat.
You have that access with me.
Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people
from more academics and expand what kind of material
I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full-time gig
and you're helping the community by joining.
I'm trying to put together more to educate people
who have harmful, cultic practices
or ways in which they're harming society.
We are educating them from MythVision
on better understanding these ancient texts
and mythologies and history
in a way like not many shows do.
So please, I could use your help
and you're gonna get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
