Who was the Prophet Muhammad?
Who was the historical man at the kernel behind all the legends and myths that have developed over the centuries after his death?
You're gonna find out today from Dr.
Sean W. Anthony and he is a PhD. He is an expert in Islamic studies.
This is what myth vision really really capitalizes on.
Expertise going to the scholars and asking them what is really going on?
What really happened and what are these stories? Are they really historical?
Where are the myths and the legends?
Et cetera. He takes this beautiful scalpel and he digs in and we get to find out who was Muhammad.
We are
Myth vision welcome back to myth vision podcast your host Eric Lambert today
I'm interviewing someone in the Islamic world who is a scholar and man did he write an amazing book?
I highly recommend everybody go check it out. We have Dr.
Sean W. Anthony. He has a PhD at the University of Chicago as well as the University of Ohio State and
His scholarship focuses on early Islamic history and the emergence of literary traditions and
Cannons of Arabic literature.
Among his publications are Muhammad and the Empires of Faith, the making of the Prophet of Islam, and that's in a University of California Press
2020 and
Crucifixion and Death as a spectacle and he actually talks about that briefly in the book that the recent book
we're gonna be talking about today. He is also the editor and translator of the editions or expeditions and early
Biography of Muhammad by and I'm horrible with names. Is it Ma'mar?
It's Ma'mar. Yeah, Ma'mar. Yeah Ma'mar be Ibn Rashid Rashid Rashid. Yeah, I'm trying. I'm trying
It's one of the earliest biographies of the Prophet Muhammad to survive until more modern times. This is a very important
Discussion because on my channel we talk about was there a historical Jesus?
Well, Consensus Scholarship says yes, but also Consensus Scholarship does this. Well, what was he in apocalyptic profit?
Was he a Suh Sangh
Socrates type of philosopher? Was he a hippie? Was he you know, and there's so many Jesuses running around that you kind of go
okay, well most of them say there's something there a kernel, but
Mostly legend. So how do we know what he is?
This book that you actually wrote does something of the sort Muhammad and the empires of faith
This is what it looks like and I'm gonna go ahead and share letting everybody see
This is where it's at on Amazon. You can go down in the description of this video
Make sure you get a copy. I swear on it now
You may not know all the tribes and all the names like I don't
But there's only one chapter that I was looking at and I had to skip some of these names
Overall, you're gonna get information. You're not finding anywhere else and it's
From a critical scholar. I highly recommend it using a historical critical method and trying to figure out
What is the earliest evidence we have for this man or if I may say the Prophet Muhammad?
And it is a fascinating discovery trying to find out how legends build
You know, I'm all into the human side of things and trying to figure out why we do things and what what is legend?
How is it embellished to make things bigger better and such for their own times?
You know a hundred years later. There's different things going on so things need to spin to that context and
He's trying to cut through all of that and give you what he thinks the earliest sources
That's what we're gonna be talking about today
Also, you guys can check out the the patreon all of this stuff gets dropped early on there
If you're helping me out, this is a way to do it now. Let's just get straight to it
I think it's I think it's fun. I think this is fun to do and I think anyone should be able to do this number one
Simple question was there a Muhammad was there a man at the colonel because some people try to argue there wasn't
So let's start with the basics. Did he exist?
Yeah, I think that so
historians like to think about
Figures in history and usually in two terms right so a one of them is like the footprint that a figure leaves in terms of
Say documentary sources
Inscriptions buildings that they construct and things like that and then on the other hand we have
The image or the character of historical figure that gets preserved in memory
Right and these are the stories about that person
So how a person is remembered versus I guess you could say the artifacts that they leave behind
The vast majority of people that have ever existed
Neither leave any memory of their their existence or any artifact of their existence
When it comes to Muhammad, I think that we have of course a huge corpus of material that preserves a memory of who he was a
memory not as a in the cognitive memory but stories about him that are important for how Muslims define themselves and understand themselves and understand who
he was and
then also I think we have a pretty amazing amount of
Documentary material that speaks to his existence
The earliest mentions of his existence tend to date within a decade of the of his traditional death date
Which is 632 so by the time we get to the 640 we have at least two mentions
Some people think we have three mentions, but we have mentions of his name
We have mentions of his name and he's associated with a group of people called the Arabs and it's actually they're written in Syriac
This isn't called them the Arabs. It calls them the payoye, which is the common name for the array the tribal inhabitants of the Arabian Peninsula at that time
So I think we have a great deal of
Of information about him when you kind of go beyond just even a decade
We have a number of of authors that are non Muslims. They're writing from many different regions many different languages
Most of them are Christians
Most of them are men of the church and they're kind of observing the Islamic conquest
But they do know of a figure named Muhammad
They do know that his leadership and his teachings are somehow behind
the events that are transpiring that they're the impetus for the conquest and that
It has some kind of
Coloring of religiosity is associated with it and kind of as time goes people become more and more aware of who he is
But I think there's a compelling amount of evidence that that he was a historical figure
Even if we leave aside all of the Arabic material which we can talk about later
But if we just look at the non Muslim sources
Sources that are not written in Arabic. I think there's a
Really large amount of evidence for his existence
That's that's something I'd love to talk about briefly would be non Muslim material non non
Followers of this faith's material early on probably enemies even that that are clearly indicating
There's someone who's a prophet and I definitely can't wait to get into the whole
Where the what is it Jacob the
Yes, oh, no, you're talking about the the uh, it's the doctrina
So we're in the teaching of jake of the recently baptized. He's a forcibly baptized you. Yeah
yeah, but he really like hook line and sinker believed in the Christ at this point Jesus, you know, and
There's something there, but before we get to that just just putting that on our little like make sure we check that one off
Really interesting point. Let's talk about some of the non Muslim material early on that indicates that there was a guy
What what what indications do we have in that?
That kind of like speaks to a historical man
so
one of the I think one of the most interesting ones are
uh, well
So when we talk about documentaries of all the stuff is written down all of its literary
But these are sort of like accidental references
These are references that are not remembered and reproduced by historical tradition
A lot of times they're just notes that people write write down
these things could be
as random as like a
To-do list that you write on a back of a cvs receipt or something like that
So it's not that they're not ideological. It's not that they have they don't they they don't have limited perspectives or like the horizons or not somehow
uh, something we have to take into account when we read them as historians, but
They are kind of an intrinsic interest and so far as they
They're almost incidental and they're accidental that they even survive and my most my favorite example of this is actually written on
A copy of two gospels written in the syriac language, right? So this is a the christian dialect of aramaic
Uh, which is very widespread at this point in mesopotamia and palestine
No avante journal also your apple many places
But this guy has this copy of the gospels like a family bible that you have laying around
And on the fly sheet the fly sheet
This is my book a fly sheet is like the opening part of a book you can see, you know, like, well, let me get into thing
You know how books have like these blank pieces of paper for binding? That's a fly sheet
And so what he does is he writes down
um events that are happening extraordinary events that are happening
And most of that fly sheet is pretty gnarly. It's pretty chewed up
It's difficult to read even if you have facility in syriac like scholars of the period should and some many of them do
um
And so when you go through and you look you can't really tell what it's talking about the beginning
But then eventually you start reading you you see a name that looks like the name
Then you keep on reading and then you get mentions of eras and romans and conflict and battle and then you see
The name Muhammad again, and then you get a very familiar
Battle mention. This is the battle of yarmouk, and this is the decisive battle that happens south of Damascus
That leads to really the the definitive and decisive defeat of the roman armies by
the invading eras, right and
Again, it's fragmentary and it doesn't tell us a lot, but the dates are very recognizable
A lot of the events are very recognizable
And you have mentioned twice in the document someone named Muhammad doesn't tell us anything about him
Right doesn't say that
Whoever wrote this we don't know if that person knows that he was a prophet
We don't know if this person knows that he had something called Quran that was revealed to him
All we know is that this guy associates this
invading army from Arabia of these these tribesmen
We call Sayoi and in syriac with this guy named Muhammad
and it's so it's not very informative in
The broad scope of things, but it's an extraordinary document in so far as it's really our earliest text to mention a guy named Muhammad
That's associated with anything and it's it's from within the first decade of the conquest so
It's right within the first decade of the prophet Muhammad's death in 632. So it's an extraordinary document
and
There's no, you know, if there's someone's like, oh, this is not him or blah blah blah
You have to kind of explain where this name is coming from
You have to explain why he mentioned him and and all sorts of other stuff like that
It's it's just a very early document. We don't have anything like that. For example, that's a really good point
Like yeah, why would you mention that name? I mean, this this is obviously some figure
Of a prominent you wouldn't even make us there's thousands of guys in that battle. Why don't you mention joe or bob?
I'm just being funny because obviously those are not going to be
But you get what i'm saying like why is this guy? So this is a really good point
And that is how historical methodology kind of works at the end of the day. This isn't empirical
You can empirically prove here's this bone or you know, like like we can't
You've got a kind of like what expectation are you expecting? You know, you want the guy's thumb print
I mean at one point you're gonna stop and just kind of go. Okay. There's probably really a guy here
Now what did he do?
Who was he and how was he viewed in his life?
That's the interesting question because how the legends build. I mean, look imagine jesus, right? I do this all the time
This guy was not viewed as god from all the scholars. I talked to they're like no
The legends built him into this but who was he?
You know, and this is just a great great question
So any of the other sources you want to bring up that I know that's one of the earliest ones
Yeah, so I think probably the one that is that excites me the most and is most fascinating to me
is written by uh
Well, we don't really know who he is you used to he was misidentified by early scholars this guy named sabios
He's writing in Armenian though, but he has sources that he draws upon from
Basically the territories that are being conquered a lot of people flee whenever there's a major kind of conquest
You know people are taking captives people are enslaved and there's a lot of his family and things like that
So you get people that flee
And he's kind of compiling accounts of a lot of individuals experiences and reports
And he actually is not just talking about the early era of conquest
But he's also talking about a earlier war. It's a war between the eastern room empire and the persian empire that precedes the era of conquest
So it's a very interesting history, but he writes it all in in Armenian
And he gives us
One of our first stories about the life of Muhammad
Right, so it's it's not just a guy named Muhammad exists
I'm going to mention him and I'm going to associate him with these armies
But he tries to tell us a little bit about him
And so this guy that we now called pseudo sabios
He's probably a member of the church in Armenia the national Armenian church
and
He writes about this individual named Muhammad that was a traitor. He knows like supposedly what he worked as
And how he made his living and he mentions that
This guy named Muhammad. He was learned in the books of moses
And he united his
His people the Arab people under kind of one banner telling them that they they were descended from Abraham
And he gave them a series of laws. He lists some of the simple laws like things like don't eat pork
Don't drink wine
All of the rules and that he lists by the way are you can find them in the Quran. They're they're pretty accurate
and
He basically portrays
This individual Muhammad as a lawmaker as a teacher and as someone that brings the Arabs
Away from polytheism and into monotheistic belief, right?
Interesting thing is out of all of these things that he calls him a teacher a law giver
A person that received revelations from on high. He never really says
Not revelation, but rather a command from on high
He never says that he's called a prophet, which is a little bit interesting. He he leaves aside that little saying
But he knows about this religious figure and he sees this religious figure as
being the main force behind the unification of the Arabian tribes
And his kind of message in his preaching as being the impetus for the conquest outside of Arabia
the basic message that
Muhammad supposedly preached according to sabbius was this
That hey you guys are the descendants of Abraham just like the Jews
And now you as the descendants of Abraham have been given
Your rights of inheritance to the holy land and so go in and take it, right?
That's basically the message is simply understood by sabbius
And so it's a very interesting account. He talks about a lot of other things besides the prophet Muhammad in his history
it goes all the way up to
The early islamic conquest to the point that we call the first civil war
In the six sixties where you have a son-in-law of the prophet Muhammad named Ali fighting against the governor of Damascus
Iskain in Muawiyah
So he has a lot more material in there
But it's a very interesting text in so far as he knows who he is. He knows how he earned his living and he knows that
He unites these Arabian tribes in order to become this force of conquest underneath this banner
of you know, you are the sons of Abraham and
There's a command from on high that you now have to follow these religious rules and so on and so forth
And so he's taking it's sort of like the salvation story you take
What was preceded the time to be kind of our barbarian polytheistic uncivilized people and you bring them into the civilized world
through giving them law this divine law and by
Kind of giving them a mission that is faithful to
their forefather Abraham
This is fascinating. I mean what year
Do we try to pin on this letter because it goes into carbon dating it goes into like
Internal evidence, you know, we're looking at this. We know he knows about the first civil war. So it puts it after that sometime
Yeah, where do you where do they usually put that date at? Yeah, so there's there's a couple ways in which we can date
So we don't have a very early manuscript of him that dates to like the seventh century
I said we're really not sure who wrote it
But Armenian as a literature has a pretty robust historiographical tradition
And so when you read later Armenian histories or histories written in Armenian
And they talk about the life of Muhammad and early Islam
You can see kind of the influence and imprint of his account on those later histories
So you can sort of triangulate a little bit of that in terms of when
It's written. So we know it's before all of those later Armenian chronicles
So a lot of those date from like the late
8th century for example
And it seems that by the time that he is getting to the civil war. So we're talking about the late 660s
the
The the voice and the way that things are described is are are as if these things are currently occurring as if they're happening in the present
So we have a pretty strong sense that he's writing
sometime in the mid 660s late 660s
And for those who don't know that would be like year 30 something
Yeah, this would be 30
This would be earlier than most gospels in terms if you like you take the death of Jesus, right? So, um, no
That's a really good analogy
I just I think a lot of people who are watching this channel are more in knowing uh, biblical criticism stuff
So one of the things about the calendar dating is in his book
You'll see he always references more of like an 80 analysis
But right next to it, you'll see like a in the teens or in the 20s or in the 30s
And that's just indicating from the time that Muhammad died
Onward and and his death
It's obviously a very important time for these people. So let's say real fast not the time that he died
But rather his hijra. So it's a history count. I'll explain it real fast. You want me to it's yeah, yeah, yeah, please
I'm so learning. So this is one of the things is really fascinating and it's also
Interesting evidence for the life of Muhammad in my view. This is more on the Arabic side
Is we almost to meet because we're talking about an empire here
And one of the things that an empire does when it conquers the territory is
You have the initial kind of plundering and things like that happens with any imperial conquest
but for something to remain
A source of political power a source of benefit to the new elite and things like that you have to start collecting taxes
Like you want relative peace you want trade to start going on you want taxes start coming in
You want fields to be cultivated, etc
And so we get particularly in egypt a lot of very early documentation
Like right out of the gate. So we're talking about documentation
within say 30 years of uh, of the death of the prophet Muhammad that has
Receipts that are written in greek that are also written arabic
And receipts like anything that says that you pay taxes and stuff like that
It always goes to some bureaucrat that wants to keep track of it and so they keep track of it through multiple means
One of them is something that we call the addiction cycle
So this is the tax cycle like how often you have to pay your taxes and stuff like that
But the other way is they use calendars. All right, and so you can use local calendars
You can use imperial calendars and all sorts of stuff like that
And one of the extraordinary things that's used to very early day is something that's called the history calendar
So the calendar in essence begins counting in 622. All right
And so 622 is the date or at least our calendar is 622
Is the date that the prophet Muhammad leaves mecca
And arrives in medina and founds his little city state in medina. It was called you a thread at the time
And so that calendar wasn't created until later. So they kind of back project and they start counting backwards
They say, okay
We'll start counting from the year that the prophet goes from mecca to medina the thing is that it
It appears very early on. I mean we have
The evidence of the use of this date in the 640. So it's it's it's very early that we start to get evidence of of these numbers
and things like that
so
When you have days like that to work with you also have a sense of like, well, what's what's this significant event that starts people using a calendar?
Right. It's very hard to create a calendar, right?
There's think about all the momentous things in history that never really
Produced a calendar. We don't have a calendar beginning from
The declaration of independence in this country, for example, the french they tried to create a new calendar for the french revolution, right?
They never really caught on
the history dating is like one of those early things that are used to
sort of say like this is a new era and
This is the way in which they self conceptualize themselves is
Our era is so important that it really reshapes how people should view time how you measure time all time is measured
Not from I don't know the solucids but from the hitra onward, right? This is truly what happened
What happened that made that impact?
Yeah, so I so to me I think it's the hitra of the prophet Muhammad
Like they think that that really started a new epoch and they for audience who doesn't know what that is though
Yeah, hitra. So hitra means an immigration. Okay, and so as the traditional
Biography of the prophet Muhammad goes like this. So you have
him being called when he's when he's 40 years old
And that's a very typological thing
For those of you who are 40 who are not 40 yet
What does the ancient world 40 would seem to be like the acme of your life, right?
It's when you're like peak mine peak physical condition and then everything else goes downhill from there, which I can confirm
Uh, but he's 40 years old when the call came, okay?
And then he starts to build a following and the followers and mecca his hometown
Uh, they begin to be persecuted. All right. They're seen as a threat to local authority again
when we're just doing traditional account here and eventually that persecution gets so bad
uh that
Life becomes very difficult
Uh, eventually a two tribes from the north that live in a city called Yathrib
They approach Muhammad. They say once you come up to our city
And you can serve as a sort of arbiter for us because we're we have all these conflicts and yadda yadda yadda
And so he says okay, that's fine and then slowly his followers start to trickle out of mecca like secretly
And eventually he has to escape
From mecca by night and when he arrives in medina
He doesn't just show up as a refugee and then build a house on the outskirts or something like that
He arrives and he establishes a sort of city state
And that city state has him as the main leader. So he's ruling over the two tribes
That are there in medina. He's ruling over the jewish tribes that live on the outskirts of the city
And he's also ruling over his early followers
That came with him from mecca and so that immigration is called the hijra
It happens in 622 according to the early datings
And the people who came with him who followed with him were called muhajirun or the immigrants. All right
So this is where it gets really interesting. Yeah
um
where it's really interesting is
are
When you have people describing the early conquerors
By names they use an array of of names right when they say that oh, they're Arabs. They're this and they're that
They're the member the people that are being conquered. They speak many different languages. They speak syriac. They speak
Greek they speak Armenian
They speak coptic, etc
And when they write about these folks, they're mostly writing about them in terms of ethnic stereotypes, right? So
The a lot of the roman authors for example call them saracens
It's a very old roman word for the inhabitants of arabian peninsula
If you're writing in syriac a lot of times they call them tayoye, which more or less means
Arabian tribesmen it comes from a tribe called the tai and then they
If they meet the tai once and it seems like everybody is the same tribe, right?
um
And then some people call them ishmaelites
Some people call them Arabs, right? Some people call them arabians, right?
So eras would be ethnicity arabian would be from arabia
But after the conquest we get we only get really one word
That is not connected to ethnicity that outsiders call them
and it's
it's uh
Not immediately obvious what it is. So in syriac, it's mahroye and uh in greek migrations are good. So my
This pronounce is like magaritoy
And scholars are like, what is this word, right? This word never appears in syriac before islamic conquest
Uh, never appears in greek before the islamic conquest
As far as we can tell this word comes from the arabic muhajirun
So they're calling them immigrants very early on we might we we might be inclined to call it colonists, right?
These are the people that come out
So the hitra of muhammad is happens in 622 when he goes to medina, right?
But that's not seen to be a singular
Event that's never repeated that becomes a model to be repeated in the conquest, right?
So if you join the conquest you have to do your own hitra
You have to do your own immigration, right?
So you have to kind of recapitulate that action of the prophet mom and when he goes
Traditionally practiced now because of this, right? Yeah. Yeah. So no people don't practice it anymore
I mean this this understanding of hitra is gone like people. Okay more like well
Really don't have an idea of I mean there are some groups that are
Are fringe and stuff that might have an idea that they should do a hitra like the prophet muhammad and stuff like that
But no one will call themselves for the arabic word muhajirun or immigrants anymore, right?
Hey, this was this was really just a part of the of the conquest and there's a moment where
they say the gate of
Conquest is is closed that is not conquest the gate of uh of immigration and clothes where
You don't have to do immigration anymore. It's no longer religious duty and things like this
But this is kind of a very key aspect of the early
Islamic conquest where you have to leave the arabian peninsula and you have to settle out one of the garrison cities
I mean they get a little bit more into it. Maybe I'd have to explain a little bit more about how the conquest works and stuff like that
I think we're gonna get into a little bit of that because I think and
You're gonna I'm I want you to correct me on anything
I'm ever wrong about because I'm new to this and you guys are the experts. So
Um, I think there's a connection and I'm big into eschatology like I studied christian eschatology
Jewish eschatology second temple Judaism like extensively. I've had john j collins on i've met him in part
We've hung out for hours and he's like really
Taught me a lot about this and I I have this really strange suspicion after reading your book
That there is a serious eschatological
Uh motivation here not only the fact that it comes from the monotheistic abrahamic faiths
But you are also looking at if i'm saying the name right haraqulus
Or the emperor who has this empire conquest and this idea
That judgment day is coming and and and I wonder if it's like
This is the competing version. We whooped your you know what by the help of god
Yeah, and they have a similar
Indiz nai eschatological the kingdom of god established on earth more like the jews rather than the christian idea of like
Internal spiritualization, even though I think maybe some sex of islam later type. I hope i'm hitting. I hope i'm touching
Getting a lot. So there's a lot of so this is a very rich time through eschatological text
I mean so
A lot is it one of the things I just said a lot of things happen between like the closure of the new testament canon and
in the rise of of the early's
So, uh, one of the things that's interesting that happens is what happens to apocalyptic thought and apocalyptic thinking, right?
um, so
the so one of the things that happens in uh in this whole
Seventh century is we have really an explosion of apocalyptic text both on the christian side and the jewish side for the jewish side
It's really the only text that we have outside of inscriptions
Uh, there's one jewish text called sefer as the rubah bells the rubah bells from the bible the book of the rubah bell
And it seems to be more in response to the persian conquest of uh, jerusalem
614 uh, so that happens before the muslim conquest of jerusalem, which happens around 637
um
And then you have another jewish text that's written in response to the success of uh, the arab conquest
And seems to be highly sympathetic to it to it. This is called the secrets of uh, rabbi shimon ben yohai
uh, and then you have these
series of christian texts that are extremely numerous at this time period too
But one of them is extremely influential. I would probably say outside of daniel
and uh
The revelation of jonah patmos. It's probably the most influential apocalyptic text that was ever written is called the apocalypse of pseudomathodias
And it was immensely popular
Uh in the wake of the aero conquest, but it also gained a lot of influence in medieval europe and Byzantium and stuff like that
So wow
This is a genre that continues to kind of evolve and be popular. I mean they give you kind of a a modern example
You know people always recognize the importance of like the og apocalyptic literature like daniel and stuff like this
uh, but when a new
Model comes in comes into town. It becomes very popular. I mean
A modern example would be like how lindsey's the late great
Planner or something like that or you know people once or the idea of the rapture
Right the idea of the rapture has no biblical basis has no
Bases in like the patristic literature has no basis in medieval christian thought or whatever. It's a purely modern idea
And once it kind of captures the imagination though, uh, it tends to have staying power
There's a lot of stuff like that tends to happen. Uh, an apocalyptic apocalyptic literature here, too
And of course we have the islamic side of things as well. Uh, you have
This is pretty prominent in the coran as well like the end is nigh is coming. There's going to be great destruction
Uh, the question is what is god going to be doing before all that happens?
And what is the what does he want us to do before that happens?
right and
For those that like to use the apocalyptic and eschatological frame for understanding the conquest
I think there's i'm all for like multiple x-men. I like to pile on these
Right, it's it's usually not one anyway. Yeah, you see multiple lenses, right? And so, um, the key thing for them is
You know, what what is it? What are for what one? What is the significant the
Significance of the life of the prophet Muhammad is early followers and sort of god's plan right so the the whole moral arc of human history
As planned by god
Like are we towards the end are we towards the beginning right and also?
What does he want to want us to do before?
The day of judgment arrives and it seems to be that their idea is that well god is kind of using them as
uh
Sort of this this as part of his dispensation to do some kind of mighty work with the children of abraham before
Uh, the day of judgment right and he's also of course the last prophet he got all this other stuff in the coran
Which means like the seal of the prophets whether that means the last prophet or not sometimes is a little bit debated
Uh, and then in there's a lot of hadith or a lot of uh,
Sayings that are attributed to the prophet that are compiled later on where he says things like
And a wassak hattaini that is i and the hour of judgment are like these two fingers
That is we come right after you're one or not there. There's there's a lot of interesting stuff like that
It's kind of funny because there's an image. There's a lot of art in in ancient church literature where jesus has two fingers
Yeah, uh, yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, it makes me think and i mean maybe my parallel maybe i'm having parallelomania
I just kind of wonder if there's something there, but uh, you know
There's so many things and i want to try and chip away at them
I hope we can get through them in this episode, but there's just so much you wrote on
I'm i'm really in love with this book you wrote. I highly recommend everyone right now get the dang book
Um, let's let's chip away a few things before we get into the doctrine of jacob or the
Doctrina jacob jacobani
So this annoys me about i said this is not my this is about patristics and things like that
They take greek text and they give them latin titles
And a lot of times the latin titles have a j in them, but latin doesn't have a j sound
So you never pronounce the j so it's the aqua but you never pronounce the j and the latin title so
Yeah
Right, I just have this one question and this is a can of worms. I know but why do we think the coran is this early?
You know like like the way that you've shaped the book was already kind of has this assumption
You're not even making a case to say the coran is early
The question is you're assuming it already and there's probably plenty of reason
I'm not aware of as to why all scholars across sports go. No, no, no
We know this is early literature and the reason I ask is because the traditional framework when I was talking to shoddy nice
Nasser I'm trying to say this correctly correct my understanding
He was kind of giving the implication the tradition of how the compilation like somebody's going out there
They're looking for it on on leafs and landstones and like
Uh in the prophet himself wasn't even saying yeah, collect the coran like we need to have this compiled
So the traditions kind of has conflicting narratives on how this is to come
Why do we trust it's early first if you don't know?
So okay, the first thing I'll say is so we have stories about how the coran was compiled
All right, and we more or less can take them or leave them if you want to date how early those stories about how the coran was compiled
Uh music got a modern source critical methods
We more or less get the idea that it was
uh
First articulated not necessarily written down but articulated by a scholar by the name of it
It should have Zuhri who dies in 742. So it's probably something that
Was a story that was going around
You know before he died, right? He probably didn't come up with a story on his deathbed, right?
So he probably taught the story multiple times
uh, so
Whether we we take it or take or leave that account is is one thing
We don't really need that account to kind of determine that the coran is our early text or whatever
and one of the things that's
Rather extraordinary about the coran as the text is that we have
a very large number of
Early manuscripts, especially when you compare it to
Uh, sort of the number of manuscripts that we have for the new testament things like that
So there's a lot of reasons behind this one of the reasons this is that their early, uh
A jesus movement and early christianity. I mean they didn't have an empire behind them right in the first place
Where's it the coran did?
Uh, but also one of the major issues is that uh, if we'd have a very early
Copy of the new testament or some or a book of the new testament. It would have to survive 200 years as opposed to
Um, 1400 years, which is still in a short an area
Long amount of time to survive, but still we have many more copies
so
a large number of these copies are
Absolutely dated so absolutely by which I mean
Use kind of chemical methods to date them radiological methods
So use radiocarbon dating in order to kind of determine their approximate date and so multiple
Uh manuscripts have been radiocarbon dated to the seventh century
And so these are all probabilistic
So we don't have the ability to have a really high resolution idea of like oh someone wrote it down or made it
and say like in october 654 something like that
But there's nothing in the calibration
To the best of my understanding of the radiocarbon dating that would say affect its dates to put it
Like say 200 years later or 100 years earlier or something like that
And then also when we use could like comparative kutological methods
To kind of compare or on manuscripts we can tell that they're genetically related. So what do I mean by that?
so take for example
Any book that has been published multiple times the first time a book is published is going to have kind of
Errors typos and and things like that
And so a lot of times when you have a second or a third edition of the book
You'll have kind of either expansions corrections of typos and things like that and say if someone
Took off the page that said what date it was
Apprenticed you could compare the text and you could determine which one would be earlier by comparing the different versions, right?
And so we can do this more or less with Quran's too
We can compare all the different texts of the Quran
And we can look for the differences between the verses and the surahs and things like this
And one of the things that we find is that the texts are highly regular
and they tend to
Bear the signs of being descended from a singular
Textual archetype, right?
So if you have one very early copy
And you copy another copy copy another copy couple another
In then you have another guy in a different part of the world is doing the same thing
You guys will have different errors or different mistakes that will creep in or different
Indications that you're writing in different parts of the world
It might be something as small as you're copying in the united states
So when you write the word color you spell it c-o-l-o-r
But the other guy he's copying it in the uk so he spells it c-o-l-o-u-r
And so you we don't be able to tell where the guy was copying and all sort of stuff
And so you take all those copies they seem to be related to
One singular archetype with the exception of one copy
And that one copy is very fascinating copy
Yeah, and I think that we are going to get into this at some point
I definitely hope to hear from you on this because there's so much
I cannot tell everyone you get started now get started now because there's so much that you guys know about this and
I'm just opening up a whole new world. So let's go ahead and
I guess based on that we can pretty much say this goes really down into the earlier dates
When would you say the Quran was actually written and why like so before before I asked like
When would you because this is kind of a guessing game based on manuscript data that we have
When would you say I think there was an actual Quran of some primitive form?
You know it goes through different kind of additions if you will but I think there was a Quran floating around in written form at this date
Yeah, I would say before 656 we have
The copies of the Quran that that exists. Yeah, okay
But I mean what happens before then so this is the rain
This would be the end of the rain of the the third caliph of men and often
And so what happens before that to the text and all its differences. It's a bit of a mystery a bit of a black box
But to me if you're looking for a text that gives you I call like the primeval the primeval document of early Muslim religiosity
That's the text right so in it has a lot of mysteries in it. It has a lot of
challenges of interpretation and things like that
But also it is readable. It's it's readable if you know Arabic if you know other
Semitic languages if you have kind of facility and historical linguistics and things like that
It's readable. It's understandable. It's not a
Like a magical incantation text or anything like that
But there aren't things that are difficult to figure out but it but it is broadly understood understandable and it's broad
in the broadest sense
And so
In there where I think we have a lot of information about
the prophet Muhammad
I think we have a lot of information about his earliest followers and their beliefs and
their their ritual life
The kind of the rules and regulations that govern their behavior a little bit about governance as well
anything that's in the Quran is to me fair game for
understanding
Islam at its most kind of earliest moment its most prime primeval moment
I'm going to ask this question before I get into the doctrine just it's probably a simple question
And because I ask critical scholars all the time when we get in the biblical studies
This I'm not trying to enter into the theological world. Okay. This is a historical conversation
It also keeps us from debate. It keeps us from the trouble that can come from people who are very um devout
And I don't want to disrespect people
But I want to say this just because I feel like a lot of people are going to watch us hearing from a scholar
Makes a lot of sense as a critical scholar who's viewed the material
You know a christian i'll give you an analogy and then just kind of toss it over here to the Quran for a second
There are christians today who believe that the bible is inerrant infallible perfect
Giant tittle everything da da da da, but I have plenty of christian scholars who are far more
I like to say educated and looking at what the facts are and they go no no no no we have a lot preserved
We have most of the stuff is there of what was there
But making it magical making it perfect everything is jotting tittle exactly like the new testament should be
Now we put the Quran in the picture as a critical scholar
Would you also equate that would you say I mean maybe they're not identical because there's probably better preservation
For the Quran you already have an empire backing it you already have like there's not like weird fringe
Maybe there are I don't know. I'm throwing it out there. There's like
There's weird. There's weird. I was okay
So to put a simple yes or no, I guess is and you don't have to elaborate if you're not interested
Um, is it preserved the way that traditionalists act like it's preserved?
Yeah, I mean this this is the um
Who you have in mind who I so
I
I think that
I'll put it this way. So when we have looked at their earliest manuscripts that exist
Uh, and we've looked at how say they differ from say a print or on or something like this
there is the
history of
Muslim philological
Scholarship on the Quran
And history is is formidable. I mean it's a beautiful tradition
I use it kind of daily in my work and i'm continually impressed
Uh by the work of the scholars wasn't the the formative classical medieval whatever all the periods
There's very few things. I think that they would necessarily be surprised by
Uh, if they are specialists in in that field, all right
But there is I would say there's a lot of things that everyday believers would be surprised by yeah
Yeah, and you articulated that fine. I really do appreciate that you don't have to say any more because that
It's to me even more beautiful
Not having that like very flat one dimensional understanding
It just shows creativity in the humans and the minds of these people who are trying to
Continue a tradition. So to me that's fascinating. Okay moving on so we can get out of the theology for a moment here
Interesting book. I'm going to try and pronounce it. Doctrina
Ya Kavi. Yeah, yeah
Ya Kavi this book the way I had it written in my notes here to make it simple
This force baptized you name jacob is not only
Not only now convinced of his forced faith
But his friend relays a message that this so-called prophet as he calls him so-called
Um prophet has no truth
But only the shedding of men's blood and him having the keys to paradise
are
And i'm going into like multiple
Pages of your book condensing this whole thing and just pointing out what he's saying and then getting into the conversation with you
Are actually eschatological rather than petrine parody. We'll go into what that is and what's going on in the debate there
Could this be an early clue to jihad and paradise and how much did persian zor astrian teachings
Of apocalyptic thinking play a role in muhammad's life. Whoo a lot there
How do we begin this conversation? Yeah, okay, so first i'll tell the story so this so this
Book it's called the doctrine of jacob the recently baptized, right?
uh
The setting is in north africa right and it happened the setting occurs amongst a kind of community of of jews that are
basically traders
And this guy jacob is a trader. Uh, he's not a native of carthage. It seems at least he was recently on a trading journey
I can't remember if he's a native there or not where he's from
uh, and
He basically takes it upon himself to try to convince his fellow jews that uh having been
Forcibly baptized they should be kind of grateful that the romans forcibly baptized them because now they're going to believe in
the true religion
and
It's an interesting text and so far as he goes through
Um very popular crenic christian proof text and he answers jewish objections and stuff like that
And he's very successful and then suddenly ira interstage, right?
A new guy comes in his name is justus
And he's even he's like the most formidable debater that jacob is as uh face at this point
and
he
Gives him a real run for his money, but still jacob wins in the end. He wins the debate
And when justus is kind of admitting that he won the debate and the yeah, we shall be happy to be christians
He gives us a really small anecdote and this happens at the end of the text the text is not a
Is one of these texts again, it's not purposefully about the prophet Muhammad forcibly, right?
And he says yeah, you know one of i'm kind of scared that if we remained jews that didn't believe in jesus as messiah
We would be able to be deceived by satan when the antichrist comes because this is the thing that they're really scared of is that
You know, what if the antichrist comes?
And you end up becoming one of his followers and you're damned forever
All right, and the example that he gives of this is this prophet that has appeared among the saracens in arabia, right?
and he
Speaks about talking to someone in palestine that named abraham
That has heard some rumors about him and then abraham kind of comments upon him
And he says interesting things one of things he says all you know that he's not a real prophet because because he comes with the
a chariot and a sword and things like this which is a weird comment to me because like
moses was a warrior
Yeah, there's plenty of warrior prophets, but
in any case
He also has this really interesting saying that he's preaching of the coming of the anointed one which means the messiah or the christ
And that he claims to have
The keys to paradise so the keys to that's a key word paradise not the kingdom of heaven or or something like that the keys to paradise
And he says that's an absurd claim is what he says and so the major issue that we run into with this text is
Is the prophet appearing in arabia? Is that actually the prophet Muhammad that's being referred to right?
So are your idea? Yes, that it is. I try to make my best case
The other thing is is that the two teachings that are mentioned
uh, they're not really very prominent and typical
Muslim dogmatics as you think about it, right?
Is this like when people are like, what do you believe and blah blah blah they're these are not really prominent features
You can find parallels of them
So there's a hadith the saying of the prophet that's attributed to him
Where he says like for example the shahada or the confession of faith to say there is no god but god and Muhammad is the messenger of god
This is among the keys to paradise
Paradise literally means a garden
So this is if you want to think in terms of eschatological terms eden is a garden and then heaven is a garden as well
That's why it's called paradise
Um, and so in in arab is called jannah, which it just means garden too
um, so
Maybe that's what he's talking about. Maybe not. Um, and then you have this other issue about the coming of jesus
the Quran
This it's a bit debatable
I'm one of those that thinks that the Quran does elude to a belief in the second coming of jesus
And so I talk a little bit about that
Uh, but whether or not is talking about the second coming of a messiah a jewish messiah or the saint coming of jesus is a little bit unclear as well
and so
In that chapter I'm trying to try to say like is this really an accurate
portrayal of the belief uh, beliefs of the prophet and I kind of argue
Yes, it is and the main example I do is this keys of paradise thing
And I try to explain where uh, someone would hear something like this and where it would come from
Um, so the keys to paradise could be misunderstood as the keys to the kingdom of heaven. This is a apostolic metaphor
saint peter is said to be
Given the keys to the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of god
By jesus and that's usually understood as a marker of
Apostolic authority if you look at the iconography of peter and really of apostles and journal
But especially peter you'll often see him holding keys
And those keys are to open up the gates of paradise
Through kind of the message of the gospel
To come believe first, right in christians
Um, and so the question is is he just being is this author?
Describing him in an inauthentic way that's parroting him by using christian metaphors
Or is he literally using a metaphor that comes from the the quran islamic tradition or something like that
You know, I argue that it's not this apostolic metaphor, but rather it probably relates to the preaching of jihad
and so we have
a large amount of
uh evidence that
this idea of fighting on the battlefield for the faith and for kind of the expansion of
uh, the early islamic polity politically
um
Was that you had this belief that that would give you get access to paradise right die on the battlefield
You gain access to paradise and so I connected to a lot of the early evidence for that
Uh, and there's a lot of early material for that. Yeah, some of it's in the quran
It's not it's a different metaphor that's used in the quran
But a lot of that is written on early epigraphy as well
Yeah, you you mentioned in your book. I'm trying to find that exact spot
where one of the guys
I I can't remember if it's someone who quotes him. I'm trying to scan through here right now
Where he literally is saying if you die
Um in battle or or something to do with that you're gonna go you're gonna go like straight to paradise. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, I mean he's the humane general, right? Um
His name's Yazid ibn Abi Sajr. Yeah, or ibn Sajr. I think
Um, yeah where he says it very clearly it's part of like the early preaching is how he's kind of rousing his uh
His troops in order to fight valiantly on the battlefield, right?
So if you fall like you have heaven waiting for you
I mean, this is a really interesting idea that is pretty prevalent in late antiquity. I mean, we have
Uh, the roman emperor haraqulus when he's part doing his campaign
To take back back the east from the persians who've taken all of mesopotamia little avalanche in egypt from the Byzantines
So this is right prior to the to the uh
Really his long the conquest. He's making very similar promises to this
Yeah to uh soldiers and things like that
So just for our audience who might have missed that
Keys to the kingdom we know in the new testament is used given to peter
I kind of wondered if if there was some
connection between
This idea of jihad and keys to paradise and
And this peter jesus early teaching of handing keys to him
I kind of wonder if there's a tradition because what really finds interest to me is
The way that the quran looks at jesus from what I understand his name is issa if i'm not if i'm saying
Yeah, the idea though
That jesus is not god, right? That would be a more factual historical
understanding of jesus actually not as much of a theological traditional trinitarian
You know, uh roman, uh, you know, what what has become popular and there are mannequins
There are various versions of christianity that seem to exist even down in the arabian peninsula
There's constantly trade things like this. So i'm wondering about the development of this in early
um
Islam and muhammad's life
He's probably being impacted by jews and christians in some way, but also has his own uh, potentially
pre islamic arabic
Coal practices that are in the region and he is finding a way in a way if this term's correct
Syncretizing all of this in some way connecting people under one umbrella
As an empire and say christian. Okay to some extent. Here's the thumbs up jew. Okay to some extent thumbs up
All right, you guys are circling uh cabai, you know if i'm saying that correct, you know
All of us can come together under this, but we do need to acknowledge there's only one god
And so this eschatological understanding
Combined with the fact that he's an empire it's a different time
Maybe i'm conflating 700 years here and i shouldn't be but i'm wondering if
That apocalyptic thing is true because judaism has it but also early christianity and potentially the apocalyptic teacher jesus
Had this which is why i think
Muslims and i'm speaking for them here even though i don't ontologically believe these things
Are seeing early apocalyptic tendencies of jesus i did not come to bring peace i bring a sword
And they they're connecting these dots to their empire conquest muhammad
And and seeing these connections i just wonder hey, yeah, yeah, there's a couple of things so, um
First run down on everything that so like the core and basically the things that the coran says about about jesus right
So when it comes to like who jesus is and things like that
It's it's really striking the number of things that the coran affirms about him
And then it's curious the things that it chooses not to affirm about him and some things a little bit ambiguous. All right, so
one of the things that it's fascinating is that
Jesus is considered to be born of a virgin. He's born without a father
He's given a revelation called the gospels an arabic the injil
He sent to preach to the israelites not to all of humanity. That's a key idea
And he is also a miracle worker
And he
What should i say so
He preferred to birth. He's a miracle worker. However, he is
Also considered to be a prophet, but he is not considered to be the son of god
It's a really interesting thing about the coran is it's very adamant that you know human beings are not the children of god
Uh, god has no sons. He has no daughters and that's not even a metaphor that would be used
It's a metaphor that's mocked pretty openly in the coran
And it's kind of rejected very strongly. This is something that
is more or less without precedent and uh, the christian tradition of
The era and even really before it's very common to for example say like oh, jesus is not god the father
Or jesus is maybe the first creation of god and things like this
But to take this kind of radical move where you say
Uh, jesus is not the son of god
That you in order to do that you have to take this radical step against the new testament
And all of the same forms that we have right which makes me think of there had to be a rabbi in his corner or something
Okay
But
One of the things so that's really fascinating. The other thing that happens is really fascinating in the coran is
Well, how does jesus die right? So
Uh, this is one thing that's still currently debated
But you have a some text that seemed to indicate that jesus did die
So god says to jesus one time in the coran i will cause you to die
He says it very explicitly and i will raise you to myself
Okay, however when you have the sink the one narrative that is mentioned of jesus's death
It's basically a diatribe against the sins of the jews right in in their history
And in that diatribe it says that the jews did not kill him, but rather it only appeared so to them
And so what does that mean it only appeared so to them only appeared that they killed him so
The muslim tradition is usually interpreted that to be a
a
Denial of the historicity of jesus's crucifixion that jesus was not crucified
But god sort of like plucked him from the earth and brought him to heaven
Before he could be crucified right so the isn't that a later tradition or that's that's all so it's somewhat later
In terms of the the larger narrative, but that claimed that he was not killed by the jews
But rather and they did not crucify him but rather only appeared to them. So this is uh straight from the coran itself
This is a wording straight from the coran itself
Uh, but eventually the someone has to say something. Well, how'd that go down then right?
Let's so what happened at the end of his life and some guys says, okay
Here's the story and we have multiple versions of that usually the story goes
You know, well jesus portrays him and so god takes jesus's
Image and cast it on judas and then the romans crucified judas right or you have you have multiple versions of this
But that's one of the versions. It's like yeah screw you judas, sorry
um
But so the idea there so he's in heaven and then so the question is like well
Isn't he gonna die and all this other stuff?
And so the ambiguity comes to when does jesus die does he ever come back and stuff like that?
so the coran itself
also says that jesus is
I mean the saa which can mean knowledge or a sign of the hour of the the end of days and things like that
And so whether or not that means that the coran endorses that jesus is going to come at the end of time
It's a messiah-like figure to defeat evil and to fill the earth with justice
Is this now filled with injustice and things like that? It's a bit ambiguous in the coran
but very early on the
interpreters of the coran
Muslim scholars and the compilers of the sayings of the prophet affirm in
No, no ambiguous terms whatsoever. It's totally unambiguous that jesus will come back
I think it will be an eschatological figure and they just coming back soon
And one of the things that is fascinating and we do have pretty well attested in
Sources from the seventh century and things like that is there is generally
A hostility towards the iconography of the cross among the early conquerors, right?
So they'll take down crosses. They'll destroy crosses. They'll take crosses off of coins and stuff like that
In general there is not sort of an openness to the symbol of the cross or an embrace of the symbol of the cross
Even though there are some interesting ambiguities there
I was gonna say I've seen some iconography on actual like we have
Pictures from Barbara something she's she's an islamic scholar in germany. We'd have her work translated
I was watching and reading and there's some images on some mosque
That go way back archaeologically and we're like, uh, wonder if
You know, there's a couple of things going on there. So some of these things are
So we do have I think inscriptions and things that are
built for caliphs or commissioned by caliphs
And sometimes that we have crosses that appear on them
And there's a number of things that are going on there. One of the things that could be going on is that
Uh, this thing is commissioned and built by kind of a local
Governor or local powerful person local potentate. He does the inscription one of the scripts that we have is for like a bath house
For example, it's all in greek, but it's dedicated to to the caliph. Wow. Yeah
It begins with a big cross, right right in the beginning of it, right?
And so like what's going on with that?
So one of the things it might be well, it's commissioned by christians
So they put a cross on it and they said, oh, thank you maria. You're a great ruler blah blah blah, right?
right
The other thing goes on is that a lot of the early mosques that were constructed
They use things called spolia
so
it's very expensive and very difficult to get things like columns
And we're all material for building large buildings
And so a lot of times what you'll have is they'll just take they'll destroy a church
And they'll just take the pillars and columns of that church and they'll put it in the mosque
And so you'll have crosses and signs like that
Um, and sometimes they're just you know, you just have an x is that a cross?
Is that not a cross and and things like that?
So it is you like I said you do get ambiguities once you really start to drill down on like in the details
Oh man, there's so much and we're rabbit rellig so but this is really good information because
I also wonder if they just used already existing church or synagogue locations and then just remodeled that and said that
Very often the most famous example of this is the it's a beautiful example
Is the umayyad mosque and uh and damascus
And before it was the mosque. It was a church and before it was a church. It was a roman temple
So then the life cycle of these things
Tends to do this, right?
Yeah, yeah, I think that's awesome. I love learning this kind of stuff. Okay. Um, so let's get to
We we we covered the
This doctrine of jake up if I could say
Yeah, uh, we we pretty much touched on this. It sounds like a very early
Bloody situation and and of course he
If if I draw anything from that there's conquest
There's battling going on and a lot of people will negatively paint muhammad in a real bad light
Especially if you're not a muslim, right? They're gonna go. He's just a blood thirsty this and that well
I guess heracluses as well. I mean when do you draw the line?
They're men battling and they're battling for power and they're battling for
For who's gonna be wearing what?
So my next question is and this is just into the hadith because you're trying to show early
Tradition and a lot of the hadith come much later. How did the hadith corpus develop and
Where it clashes with other sources
So it's a big question. You can't really cover. There's so much here
But is there a way to kind of somehow summarize?
How the hadith developed? Yeah, I mean
so for the for people that are used to
I think about the gospels like one a good example would be like the double tradition, right?
So the double tradition are the places where the gospel of matthew and luke overlap with one another
And the idea is basically and this is definitely a subject to debate
Is whether or not there is a single source or multiple sources that both matthew and luke rely upon independently, right?
It's also one of the ways in which she used to determine mark and priority. Yeah. Yeah. Is it curious or yeah?
Say you have so we have four say we have four gospels, but the three ones we know are very highly independent. So
The hadith is a bit like that
Except we have like 20 books, you know, and so and so one of the main in one one of the main questions that
arise is
when we look at all this material can we
Locate its kind of evolution its earliest sources and things like that
and so one of the things that I try to argue in the book is
Uh, what is the layering of the sources that we can find right?
What's the earliest person and then who's the most influential person and who's the person that really gives shape to the entire
Corpus of a subgenre so like a subset of
Of the hadith that is called the syrah literature. This is the literature that is specifically meant to
Tell the life story of the prophet Muhammad
So I guess I should say before I get on with that the hadith is a very large corpus
and
They had either are usually pretty short
Like I gave you one example earlier on where the prophet Muhammad says
I in the hour that is the final hour. We're like these two things and these two fingers
Like we're right after another that's a very short sentence in arabic. It's just anna. What's a cahetani?
I in the hour is like two things
so
When you compile sayings like this, you can organize them in very different ways
You can organize them topically
You can organize them according to their relevance to specific legal or religious ruling
You can organize them according to the name of the person that transmits them, right? And so all all of these books that survive
They're organized in all these different ways, right? And one of the ways to organize them as well
Is to organize them in a single story
And so you tend to take the longer stories and put them one right after the other and so
The question that arises is okay. Who are the big architects?
of arranging these stories like this and
What was their agenda? What was their view?
What was their, uh, like how did their kind of place in history shape how they arrange this material?
And what's the earliest person that we can find that does this?
So I argue the earliest person that we can find that does this is a guy by the name of orwa ibn el-zubeir
We have some letters written by him between him and a caliph
and he is the son
of a prominent companion of
Muhammad like thinking like he's like son of like one of the sons of zebedee or something like this
uh, and also he is the
Uh, nephew of one of the prophet's wives named aisha. Okay
You imagine he's the son of a son of zebedee and he's the nephew of mary magdal or something like this, right?
So this is the the type to figure how he's placed historically
And we only have we have very few like a very skeletal outline of the prophet Muhammad's life from him
Like not a lot of material some stuff is very short very pithy
And we have a person after him named ibn jahab ibn shihab az-zubri who dies in 742
He's extremely influential and we know that he was working at the court of uh, the first dynasty of caliph named the named the
Umayyads and that he was uh, one of the the people that were most important in terms of writing down this corpus of literature called the hadith
Before and it had to be transmitted orally and learned orally after that they fought against that, right?
Oh, so that's something. Yeah, so I don't know about it's controversial when you start writing it down
Okay, and this is the thing is interesting even after it's written down
It's taught orally and learned orally at the same time that it's written down. So you shouldn't think of as a
Uh exclusively oral literature. You should think of as a hybrid literature, right?
So the idea is you have a book that you yourself use as personal notes for memorizing this literature
Uh, but when you read the literature or when you learn the literature you haven't really learned it until you have memorized it
Or until you have uh learned it from the scholar who compiled the book
It'd be it'd be sort of like this. It'd be like me saying like, you know, you can't really
Teach the book that I've read
Until I personally dictate to you every word of my book and then you dictate it back to me
And I make sure that you get it correct and then and only then can you transmit my book
You can't just like take my book and hand it to somebody, right? It has to be through these kind of social networks
and so, um
Zohari is this key figure and then the big giant of them all is a guy by the name of Ibn Ishaq, right?
And the reason why he's the giant is because he's kind of chosen by
A new dynasty of caliphs that rise to power in 750 called the abasids and they say hey, you're going to write the history
Of our community from beginning to end you're going to start with adam
And you're going to go all the way up to the era of the caliphs
He's the joseph smith of or not just josephus. I don't know why I came up with it
Joseph is a good example or I would like to think of as like a eusebius as well. He's very very much like a eusebius
Um, so
All of these guys, however, none of their corpus really survives
All right, and it's it doesn't survive in a bit. We have papyri like of sections of their stuff
Right, like a papyrus of like one one page will survive here and there, but mostly we gain access to their material
only through uh quotations and uh
Um
revisions I'm going to call it's not revisions most of like epitome. So like you basically you write a shorter version
And like one of the problems is because these books were large
And they were writing in a time in which paper was not yet invented
Uh parchment and papyrus was very expensive for everyday people to use and into writing when you write a multi volume
Uh work, it's very expensive to reproduce it and to keep it and for it to survive
Eventually you have the introduction of paper in the islamic world in the ninth century
And it leads to this revolution where
People are just writing reams and reams and reams and all of a sudden it's very cheap to do so
and so most of the books that are
Uh that survive into our time are from the era of paper in which paper made copying and making huge multiple
multi volume works
Uh possible and so they're not just collecting things like the works that are in this hop
But they're also collecting other materials and they're putting in these these super books
right
And that's the elitist who are obviously doing this too. You talk about the higher up. Yeah, so this is interesting
So this is this is not in the book
But almost always these are people with close connections to the court right in some way
Uh, and they're always connected to the ruling tribal elite right and a lot of times they're
They're if they're not Arabs themselves, they're kind of social climbers, right?
So they're keen to learn Arabic assimilate to
The culture of the Arabs and assimilate to their religion to be more or less more world than the king
In order to kind of climb the social ladder
But you know
Just recently we we have it's not published yet
But someone has discovered a very early syrah
That is contemporary with imus hawk that was not patronized by a court
And so i'm kind of really looking forward to
Like translating that and working on that here near future
But uh, I mean we we do have a lot of materials that is connected to the court a lot of materials that aren't connected to the court
I mean, it's really hard to communicate how vast this material is
um
I don't know if you've ever seen like the compilation of the
Church fathers in latin and greek on a bookshelf or something like that or the talmud on the bookshelf
Yeah, it's bigger than that. It's that's how large the corpus is
Uh, so it's it's a lot of work to sift through but it's if you like source criticism
Uh, it might mean really really like it. It's a dream. Yeah, I like
Obviously, I have a different epistemology of course then but that would be why I like critical
It's kind of my motivating factors like getting to the bottom of what's probably going on
Yeah, I like to cut through tradition because tradition always becomes the
It's an image
It's something people can admire and it's something they look up to but
I was someone who was a traditionalist in the sense that like I believed in the package deal of jesus
An orthodox christian would look at me. Yeah, you never really knew what christianity was because I came from more of a fundamentalist
Background and then I became reformed calvinist. I was a presbyterian all that kind of stuff
But I like to get to the bottom
Behind all that because now I know I'm like, okay. I know how all of this works
If you go to an orthodox jew and you ask him about the the Torah to knock, you know, you ask him about the scriptures
They're going to tell you what the mishnah the the talmud
They're going to tell you what the tradition teaches and then you've got john j. Collins and you've got
critical
Scala and like francesca Strava capulu who just wrote a book called god and anatomy which I'm looking forward to interviewing her on
Uh, you're not going to hear any of that stuff from anyone who's like in the tradition
That's what I want in islam and and I'm really really fascinated with this already. So
To another question
We want to know who muhammad is right. We want to figure out the guy
I'm probably butchering his name because you speak it and you find this country redneck in north carolina
Is trying to say his name. He's not saying muhammad right? I don't know how to say it, you know, you're pretty good. Yeah
I try I try. Um, forgive me
Uh, was he a shepherd as all the prophets were or was this man a merchant?
And I find it amazing what you do in the book when you go into like, uh, what is the tradition name called the
I mess up every time I try to pronounce it. I got it written here. It is the
The sarah magazi. Am I saying it's seara. It's seara. Yeah, the gh sound is very hard
It's like it's a letter. We don't have an english. So it's hard to do
It's a it's like a weird like but you just say it like a g you'll be just fine
Like you just say seara magazi. It's fine. But it's mahoza
So in that and of course the other literature, there's this kind of
Negative condemnation of a merchant like you're you're not like those are no good. No prophet would be a merchant but
You spend a lot of time going in this was he a shepherd?
and
Or was he a merchant and it's
Is he both what the heck is going on? I could see theologically why
Someone would want him to be a shepherd. All you have to do is look at the patriarchs
You could look at the bible and find that out
But what's the reality? Yeah, you know part of that question is is tied into
um
kind of the socioeconomic realities of
The rage in peninsular where he grew up in the rage in peninsular
And how people really made a living and how people go subsisted, right?
In general, it seems that he came from a people that
For the most part they either
If they had any wealth it was either in flocks of
Cheap goats those types of things herds of cattle of cattle like camels or
sometimes cows and things like this
or they had
Basically subsistence agricultural settlements like oases that they were able to have like a farm or something like that grow dates and other things like this
and so
You rely upon what you can grow
Uh what you can kind of raise as a kind of a pastoralist
Mostly roommates, you know room. That's the great thing about them. The reason why roommates are so popular
They can eat tons of stuff that we can't eat
And we can eat like they can eat the orange peels even though we can't eat the orange peels
And then when they eat the orange peels they provide us with milk and all this other stuff and they also provide you with
You know skin and all sort of stuff
Uh, and so you can live off of flocks. You can live off of uh, some level of agriculture in the around the oases, but mecca's not oasis
Uh, so you have to trade. That's the other way you get things
So and so far as
He grew up around animals and so far as he grew up having to trade in order to just survive for food and things like that
I think he was probably both
What's interesting when you look at the tradition, however, is how they give this a certain kind of valence, right? So
the image of the rye or the image of the uh shepherd has a
Important kind of religious image, right?
Whether it's david's a shepherd. Jesus has the good shepherd
Um as the lord as my shepherd and all this other stuff
This idea of taking care of a flock and this is all really important, right?
And it's the idea of the the humbleness of the office of prophecy as well
the
issue with trade and why trade becomes
um
Sensitive is because traders make profit right and traders have to
Well, you know, they have to be a part of the hustle, right?
So you don't say like what the thing is really worth
But you try to get as much money for as you can a little bit of trickery is going on there
Uh, and there also seem to be a little bit too keen on on money
But then you have another issue that is the cause of anxiety too
Is the orthodox or the main kind of traditions view of the prophet Muhammad usually sees him
As sort of a cultural virgin and what I mean by that is he was an unlearned person
He's an unscriptured person
He didn't have teachers that were jews or christians and things like that
Any sort of knowledge that he's able to communicate about the outside world about
The christian tradition jewish tradition and sacred history is not supposed to be something that he learned from other people
It's supposed to have been revealed to him by god and then communicated through him to the angel gabriel
So if you read a lot of these early christian accounts about him being a trader
The earliest ones don't say this explicitly, but eventually this becomes a trope in christian accounts is that
The prophet Muhammad was a simple man that was trading and and he was trading outside the raven peninsula
And he's in these more civilized areas
He started to become intrigued by the christians and he started becoming intrigued by the jews
And he was like well tell me a little bit about Torah
Tell me a little bit about the gospels
And once he began to be exposed to these religious ideas
He took those back home and he kind of concocted his own kind of story
and this is a polemic that
We know
his contemporaries
Leveled against him as well
Because the Quran actually has many passages in which it says they say and by which they it means like his enemies
That they learned that he was taught these things by man and blah blah blah
And then the Quran has this kind of very
You know strident and transcendent response saying that this is not this is not possible
The Quran is in arabic right the Quran if the Quran's in arabic
Then how could he have learned it from a christian because there's no
scripture in arabic and he's not you know
So you have this kind of idea that the the fact that the Quran is written in arabic and it's in the language of his people
It's a marker of its authenticity as of a revelation and the fact that it's not dependent upon
Say syriac or Hebrew anything like that
Oh, man
Yeah, there. Oh, there's got to be books out there that go deep into this because yeah, you there's also this internal
I think it's in the sura
Suras i'm not sure but
There are definitely traditions you talk about legends that
He's walking on his I guess he's traveling maybe for merchant reasons and then a jew with jew rabbi sees him
And he sees him lay under a certain tree and they're like where the cloud is and then the other version has a christian
Go oh a priest goes. Oh, and it's always a different one of the two guys though. It's always
Many of these stories. I mean, there's so many of these stories if you compile them all
I mean you have like various monks
Uh, you have various rabbis
And then you have the more especially like the arabian versions where you have
These folks that are called the kohan a kohan. We call them soothsayers in english. This is how we translate it
But these are kind of local arabian
Soothsayers that have a familiar spirit like they speak to
A genie or a daemon or something like this that they get
Get a knowledge about the future or something like that and they'll see him
And they will recognize immediately that he's a prophet and he has for destiny. I mean some of these stories
Remind me of gospel stories
Especially you get the messianic secret mark right where it's only the
Demons or people that are demon possessed will like recognize who jesus is and stuff like that
And but you get these folks that are like these arabian soothsayers are not demon possessed, but they
Kind of they get information that they're not supposed to have as human beings from the spirit world or whatever that is, right?
And they are able to recognize him as a prophet things like this
I think it's interesting that all three of the elements
I keep talking about as a building block to the development in a natural way like if you assume
With me that my worldview is correct pretend for the audience watching pretend and I say
There's got to be a natural explanation like he had to have met someone learned it from someone right and i'm not doing it
As a polemic i'm truly investigating it saying i got to make sense of this. I don't think that revelations happen
Let's pretend
Okay, and if that is the case
I find it fascinating that all three you got judaism christianity and the pagan world
All three of them not only are elements that we see shown up in modern contemporary islamic traditions
Whether they're walking around the the is it the kaba or the
Okay, hope i'm saying this correct the there are certain things that you don't find in judaism or christianity that they still practice
There are things that are christian in origin and then there are things that are jewish in origin
So it makes me like interested that these legends all three kind of touch on all three groups these so social
Uh groups that are probably in the region. Anyway, I just am fascinated. That's the thing and i'm not doing it to
Aha, I really want to know
Um, but I know that no matter what when you make those statements
There are people who hold this holy to a point where they feel attacked even if you just make that point
Yeah, um, and it's not my intention. So yeah
Like you mentioned like the kaba is a really interesting example, right? So, um
We one of the things that's interesting about mecca and the kaba and so on and so forth is it's like the centerpiece of
It's one of the major centerpieces of kind of the quranic and muslim view of salvation history, right the moral arc of history
It's as a central role to play
We're the perspective of the human history. It plays zero role whatsoever. I mean, nobody knows that it exists. We have
No pre-islamic attestation to the existence of the kaba or mecca as a city
Or even it's the main tribe that uh, the prophet hamp comes from khoresh. No mention of it even though we have
You know tons of inscriptions and things like that from the radiant peninsula. No mention of it
I mean yet. I mean we might find a mention of it
until after the islamic conquest and then within
Basically about 60 years. We start having people making minjun and mecca and and and things like that
and
What's fascinating about is it seems what the story was
Is that you had a local arabian cult?
That syrup that was associated with this place called the kaba
Were sacrifices were made during sacred months and arabian tribes would probably come in and
And make their pilgrimage there and that gave prestige to the kind of caretakers of that arabian tribe
but eventually what happens
is that the spread of biblical traditions and
The the biblical view of the world sort of seeps down to that part of arabia
And one of the ideas is that well the inhabitants of arabia are descended from abraham through ishmael
And somehow that was internalized by the inhabitants of the radiant peninsula
And so you basically have jews and christians saying to these guys
Hey, you guys are are ishmaelites. You guys are ishmaelites. You guys are ishmaelites
And then they feel like yeah, okay. Yeah, we are right
Like we don't have any evidence that they consider themselves ishmaelites before the rise of islam
But after the rise of islam, it's very clear
Uh, and what happens it seems
Is that the kaba is given this abrahamic mythos, right?
So when the prophet muhammad comes he says, oh all this idolatry that you're doing in mecca
It's wrong. It's corruption. There's this really ancient history
And originally this was built by the prophet abraham and it was built for the worship of one god
All right, and basically a lot of his early message to say we need to get rid of the polytheism
Of this arabian cult and we need to restore it to its mythic
Well, it wasn't for him. It wasn't a mythic past, but right need to restore it to its abraham past and restore it to its original
Kind of purpose is like this
Beacon of abrahamic monotheism isn't that where adam landed when he fell from the garden of eden, which is a paradise
That's a later story. So there's multiple stores. So, uh
This is the story about abraham
Building the cobbin stuff like that is very early the adam stuff comes much later
and
Where adam landed in islamic tradition is is quite varied like one of the versions for example
He lands in Sri Lanka, right? Which is seren well the island of seren deed where we get our word serendipity from
So there's lots of different stories about where adam and eve kind of landed when when they hit
But the cobbin is an interesting structure. I mean
the early tradition already knows for example that
The cobbin was destroyed and rebuilt multiple times. So the use of the cobbin they had was a real recent built
One of the ways in which they date events from the prophet Muhammad's life
Supposedly the cobbin was destroyed and rebuilt when he was 15 years old
Right. Um, and then you have changes that are made to the cobbin once its reconsecrated and the idol idols were supposedly cleared out of it
and things like that the big research question for us as scholars now
is
The later islamic tradition talks about idols idolatry and all sorts of other stuff like this in the arabian peninsula
We have no archaeological evidence for that
There's no archaeological evidence for idolatry being a thing in the arabian peninsula
uh, and so
We're we're really trying to rewrite the pre islamic history of the arabian peninsula
that doesn't rely upon what seems to be
mythic folktales that were compiled in the uh,
like late
Eighth century that have really no bearing on the reality of the on the ground. So
There's so much work to be done to in languages that people have not already translated or aren't looking
There's political reasons. They're not digging and excavating in certain areas. We would love to see
There's so many things we haven't discovered that we need to and I hope it happens
I got one more question in this vein here before we move into something different if you don't mind
And this is a very controversial thing even among scholars trying to figure out the origin of Allah the god of abrahman or this god that that
We know that the tradition has it that look it's the same god as what the jews believe
But the name Yahweh, okay, or if you want to use Elohim, etc
That's the name of their god that you're not supposed to say of course
but the the point about all of that I asked of dr. Nasser is
Is this and this is where the debate for the scholars is is the name
Really the name of a deity from one of these arabic
pagan pantheons and
Really it is the name now attributed to the monotheistic deity or is it just the simple name generic of saying god?
You know that that is being used in arabic language for the god of abraham that is really a biblical name
It's a huge dispute
But I mean I'd love to get your honest opinion because I've read somewhere that they say this did come from a pantheon of deities
And they used this and made this the supreme
I don't know. So no, we don't have any of it. Is this from a pantheon of deities. So we so
A law is just it's it's very similar to the name l in Hebrew, right? So but if you
It's a little bit of a reason for the different languages, so I guess I'll try to keep it simple
Please so the word for god in arabic is just
Right, so it's i l a h
right
And if you add the god, right?
Then it's l
a l right and then we usually put a dash to
indicate that it's a
Proper name just l ila means the god and that seems to be a pretty straight
Uh arabic calc of the greek hothios, which is just the god like the one god, right?
And eventually those two l's like the l ila they become fused
And they become and it's pronounced a law
Right, so that's that's why the name of god seems that it comes from and we have uh
Fortunately a significant body
of pre islamic
Inscriptions that are written arabic that are written by christians
That
Use kind of arabic and they use this word illa and things like that where they say
And things like it's that seems to be what it just means the god, right?
So one of the things that we're struggling is right now if you read the earliest accounts of pre islamic religion
written in arabic by kind of these
Early the earliest scholars that wrote about them. They're mostly writing in iraq. So they're not writing
in the arabian peninsula itself
And they're writing in the late and uh eight century early ninth century. They describe for us, uh
a
arabian peninsula is dominated by
Idolatry and polytheism in a very literal and craft sense
I literally mean like having a statue that you worship and their story is told that
um about a tribe that made a statue an idol out of dates and an animal fat and then they got hungry and ate it
And I think there's like there's a lot of silly stories. Okay, and
the thing is
a lot of early scholarship because they didn't really have so much access to
um
What was going on in the arabian peninsula took these stories and maybe a little bit too seriously
And if we look at the arabian peninsula and what does survive and we're able to see
Uh from the archaeological evidence, we don't find idols like we don't find things like this
there are
Interesting survivals that you get in islam that seems to have fallen away both with christianian judaism
And we're even outlawed in the roman empire like for example animal sacrifice
Animal sacrifice is just you know, it's not allowed right, but it survives in islam animal sacrifice does
um, and so that does seem to be an example of
The ways in which you know early islamic cult draws from something that's not jewish not christian not from the late antique era
uh, but we don't really have a lot of examples of
uh, arabian polytheism, so there are
Or I know it's usually it's kind of an old cliche that said like oh, there's no ideology done in Saudi Arabia or things like that
That's no longer true. That used to be the case
But that's really not true. There's a lot of archaeology that's being done
in Saudi Arabia right now
And we're not finding a lot of idolatry and polytheism things like that now
What we're not doing is we're not doing archaeology and mecca and things like that
um, there's practical reasons for that uh, because the hodge is there for every year and there's millions of people and
Still already people like get killed and trampled and stuff because it's just like just a massive amount of human beings that move through that space
um, but
There is archaeological work being done. There's epigraphic surveys being done
so far
I mean, we're not finding a lot of evidence for that vision of arabia of a polytheistic arabia that we find and
uh, so the stories that are told about the arabian peninsula by the later arabic historiographical tradition
And that's one of the there are biggest mysteries right now is
Why is there such a just juncture between the stories about
The arabian peninsula that we get in the early arabic histories
And what we're actually finding on the grounds is totally irakly different
This is amazing. Uh, what are your thoughts about the pet the petra theory?
I think it's totally nonsense
I think it's absolutely this garbage. Um, so, you know
Petra was pretty well integrated into
Uh, the world of late antiquity into christian world had like a bishop bishop in a sea and things like this like
We have papyri from from petra and stuff like that. Um, there's a lot of archaeological works that is done
On the nappity and kingdom and there's uh, to me, it's just totally without basis. I don't think you're seriously
Okay, okay. Yeah, and I I ask an expert. This is what I love to do
What are your thoughts and I'm gonna butcher this name. I'm trying my best here. I'm learning. I'm learning
It's gonna take me some time to really get your thoughts on dual
Carnain alexander if that makes sense little carnain. Yeah, so
So this one thing is really fascinating about, um
The what happens to alexa what so alexander the great and the stories about him become very important for imperial ideology
and the period leading up to the rise of islam
And his story his life stories about him are kind of reimagined by christians and jews and all sorts of interesting ways
It becomes very important for apocalyptic stories
So a lot of your listeners have probably heard of jog and may jog and they're gonna play this major role to the end of time
And all this other stuff
So a very popular christian legend is that he that the reason that jog and may jog haven't come yet is when alexander did his world
conquest he went to
Kind of the the edge of the earth and he built an iron gate to keep them out
And it's only when that iron gate fails that jog and may jog will come through and wreak havoc and stuff like that
Another thing that's really interesting about alexander the great is he seemed to be kind of the progenitor of the roman empire in many ways
There's an interesting passage in the book of Psalms that says that the
kush will reach out its hands to god kush is ethiopia. So, uh, alexander was seen as having an ethiopian mother
and so
Through his mother's side kush reaching out to god is kind of the psalmic prophecy
Both of the christianization of the roman empire
But also the idea that the roman empire will last until the end of time and eventually this last roman empire will take off
His crown and hand it to jesus and say you take it, you know, you take it take show up from here
And that's how the roman empire will end. Okay. So with all that being said
Many different stories about uh, alexander the great. He's kind of like i don't know like an iron man of the age or something
It's this major kind of hero
um
and eventually
We see someone asking the prophet in the quran about who this guy named local name is
Local name in in arabic means the guy with two horns
There's many ways of reading that and understanding what that means
Uh, but what seems to be clear when you read the account of who this is local name figure is in the quran
He's basically recapitulating and doing the same things that alexander does in the christian stories about him
uh, and so
it's
Very early on most of the early muslim scholars that read that text. They identified alexander
the great with local name from uh, from the quran
So the solucid calendar is like one of the major calendars. It was it's called the uh, it's either called the era of the solucids because of this
Of the solucid empire that kind of broke off from alexander
alexander's conquest
But they call it the the era of alexander in arabic or they call the the era of local name
So it's the the identification is very early on in the islamic tradition and you have a very
strong interest in the stories of alexander and things attributed alexander
One of the first things ever translated in the arabic for example or
These letters that are attributed to Aristotle and alexander whether like your writing letters to one or another
um
We're not authentic by the way
But yeah, it's it's very clear that he's alexander, but this plays into the apocalypticism, right? Yeah, uh, so
and the alexander is a figure that is seen as a world conqueror and a figure of
Kind of major providential importance and that and the stories about him usually kind of uh indicate something about apocalyptic
Couple more and then i'll let you go
This has been fantastic
I can't tell you how much i've learned already and there's i just i want to read your other works as well
And i'd love to do an interview on those to promote those and let other people know about them because i can already tell you you're
Like an encyclopedia when it comes to this material
One of the interesting points. So we talked about alexander the great
There's an there's this idea and i don't know where it is
I've heard it
That men go to sleep for hundreds of years in a cave and this is from an early christian lore
Where they go to sleep. Um, is that in the koran? Yeah, so it's in the same
Chapter the koran that alexander the great appears in they're called the sleepers of aphysis
And so it's it's basically a van wrinkle story where they go to sleep during an era of christian persecution
And then they and one of the guys wakes up and he's like, oh my god
Everybody's christian now and things like that. It's it's a really great story. Is it that but now everyone's a muslim
No, so that doesn't have muslim in there, but everyone but they do the story does have like
It's a story about providence right how things can change in which you don't imagine
I can't remember if you're called muslim or not when they say muslim in the koran
A lot of times the word doesn't necessarily mean
muslim as a separate identity a lot of times it just means
Like a worshiper or one who submits to god like moses is called a muslim
Abraham is called a muslim and things like that for that reason
But it takes that story
and the story is really fascinating because
As far as we know it began it probably first appeared since in syriac, you know the century before
And we haven't attested in so many different languages before the rise of islam it travels all the way to
Europe that appears in the writings of gregory of torus. He writes the story in latin
He very explicitly says that he could sit from a syrian trader is where he heard this story from
We even have it in bactrian bactrian as a way east and central asia
And so his christians are out there too and they're telling the story in bactrian
And of course eventually it gets its most famous and enduring version and and the koran right
And when the early one of things that's fascinating about this too is that when the early exegetes of the koran
Are saying are retelling the story in a fuller
And longer way they seem to themselves be relying upon a syriac source to to give the fuller version of the account
Wow, I love this textual inter textuality or seeing stuff like that's amazing. Um
Apocalypticism one of the big questions I had on my mind because I
Studying new testament, you know christians are still waiting for jesus to come back, right?
Um, this is like common sense. Everyone knows that, you know, you see it on every billboard in the south where I live, you know
You see jesus come back soon. Call this number. You can you can know when he comes and you're like, okay
Um, but scholars barred airmen. You know, I talked to these guys
I'm talking to elaine pagels barred airmen mark goodacre just left, uh, princeton university three weeks ago
Went and visited in person and you quote him in your book. Uh, dr. Delcy allison jr. Wonderful guy
Brilliant mind. Uh, I've got 18 videos. I'm still trying to edit
To plug his his content
Which tells me I know what kind of caliber of scholars you're talking to which is amazing
They all he wrote a book. Um
Right back here at the end of the age here this you know
Right here the end the end of the age has come and of course
It came and went meaning it never actually happened
So uh all of the apocalyptic, uh ideas that happen in history
All fell now that doesn't mean there is an x event to material or some things that are always written as though they have been fulfilled
Leading up to a still expectation. Something's got to happen mark writes his book
You know the gospel acting like it's about to happen. Well, how do we know?
Well, saw what happened to Jerusalem. Well, they act like it's still future
But it's x event two and it's about to happen. Is there any indication?
I'm completely ignorant on the Koran and like knowing this material
But is there any indication of something like that?
Where and I'll give you one example and you could just take you probably know five ten examples of this
Where Muhammad said to some guy
That this young man
You know
Before he's a hundred years old or something like that that the end will happen
And and that expectation was here. Here's something we could test, you know to see
When they thought things were supposed to go. Yeah, do we have anything like that?
um
So this is it's interesting, uh
Wait a bit. So the Koran has said how anything like that per se
um
I'm trying to think about the way to answer this question. Okay, there's there's a theory right now balancing around it's that's interesting
um
So and this and so in order to answer it
I have to make an assumption that uh, maybe not all the people in my field would agree with
Okay, and this assumption that that I
I don't think it's assumption
I think that it can be substantiated but maybe not everybody would agree with me
So I think that
It is possible if you look at the corpus of the Koran and you pay very close attention to his language
That you can say one part of the Koran was written at this time period and another part of the Koran was
Revealed or written down in this time period. So I would say before hitra and after hitra. So before six twenty two after six twenty two
and so
If you take if you start there with that assumption
Uh, I strongly think
That the prophet Muhammad
Had a transformative moment in his early career
Because he was initially started as sort of this apocalyptic creature
That was warning mecca and the meccans in his early phase
Uh, where he can counter a lot of hostility
That if they did not
Um
Abandoned what he called shirk. This is worshiping things alongside god praying to things alongside god
Uh
And if they did not reform kind of the worship of the sanctuary the Kaaba
That a huge cataclysm was going to come
That they're the meccans would just be totally destroyed
And it never happens. So he preaches and he preaches and he preaches
I kind of imagine like the the street corner preacher is like it's going to happen. It's going to happen. This doesn't happen, right? Right, right?
Um, and so the question is like well does the fact that the destruction of mecca never happened
Does this have some effect on the message and one of the reasons why I believe that he thought it was imminent
It was going to come is a lot of these early text
Use examples like the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah
the flood narrative from no, uh
Basically stories of prophets that preach to a people about their destruction
They do not heed the prophet and then they're destroyed or something like this
And so that doesn't happen eventually. He's the one that's persecuted. He's the one that's uh, kind of kicked out of town
okay
and what seems to eventually happen in the Medinian period is
He kind of this seems to transform his understanding of
His role as a prophet and the role of his community
And so I think the idea that happens then that it's not some kind of outside force
It's going to be the cataclysm or going to be the instrument of destruction or the instrument which God uses to punish
uh
Idolatry, polytheism, whatever he's preaching against but rather it's going to be
He and his community himself and this is basically the idea of jihad
Right. So the idea of jihad is that they are kind of the instruments of uh, of punishment right that God is
Is going to kind of punish those and use them as kind of the instrument to do so
Uh, and this is a very common apocalyptic theme too. So if you
Read like in the most of the early
Christian responses to the early islamic conquest
And of course they ask like why does this happen right? Why is this happening to us?
Why are we being conquered and things that anytime something bad happens
Always kind of make this joke with my students that you know nowadays when something bad happens to us like a flood comes
You know our family guys we say oh, there can't be a god. How can there be a god, right?
But back then it's going to be like well, what do we do to deserve this?
We certainly must have yeah, and so they that's what they say
They say we must have been sinners we must have been something bad
And so where the muslims say is like yeah, you were sinners and we're part of your punishment. That's kind of
There's a quote I think and I might be butchering this. I thought it was sun zu
The the art of war where he he has this quote famous quote where he's saying
I'm gonna come and it might not be him. I might be right. I might know this, but he's like i'm the weapon of god
I am the instrument of judgment. Yeah, one of the earliest generals of of the army. He was called seifullah
He was called the sword of god
And the sword is
A key you talk about the sword being a key to paradise
So you want to you want to get in you want the key to the door? Yeah, it's interesting because I think early
Strange versions I guess you can call them strange because we don't really hear much about them
But like inokian type of Judaism stuff
They have like passwords to get through certain gates
Where they have to know the names of the angels and stuff and it's like oh man
This is pretty cool, but it's kind of saying no no no we've got the password and it's a sword
You're gonna let us in I I think it's
Interesting. I'm glad that I'm not living in an era where we have to do that anymore. Well people are doing that in the world, but
Yeah, I guess um
I I'd like to end it there and I just would ask more of um
This is more of a personal question if I may ask and it's not about your beliefs. It's more about like
um, where you hope to see
Scholarship help the world in understanding of Islam both from Islamophobes and they are out there
There are people who are adamantly against
People who are muslim and you know, I don't want to be painted that way
I really want people they might feel that way because I've interviewed a lot of these ex muslims on the internet
I'm a skeptic. I jab at religions and things like that and critically
But as people I really don't want to come across that way. So what are your hopes?
for the future
of your work and others in your field
to try and maybe
Help the world not view muslims this way
Simultaneously, do you hope that it also is going to maybe stop the more extreme versions out there that or people that take it so far that they're
Still living in the seventh century if that makes sense. I I hope reform happens. I want people to allegorize
I want and I know there's a lot of people who are ex muslims. No, you can't reform and no
BS christianity has done it Judaism has it. I mean like let's let's try to become better people and that's just my opinion
What are your thoughts?
um, yeah, I mean, that's a really big topic
I would say in general like one thing that I would like
uh, as a scholar like speaking as a scholar
is
What I would like to see out of scholarship and out of scholars that are that I work on these materials
is to
I'll put it this way like a new a new testament scholar
I think would have a hard time taking himself seriously if you do not have extensive knowledge of
like second temple Judaism and
the history of Judaism in general and knowledge of the Hebrew Bible even if maybe
He or she doesn't know the Hebrew Bible or something like that
Still they have to have a general awareness and things like that
To me what I would like to see out of uh, scholarship in general is I would like to see
um
people understand that
Islam and the rise of a kind of early muslim communities and the transformations that happen to
uh, the Mediterranean or african things that is a result of those events that is all part of the history of our society
It's not a history of their society. It's just real of our so we're kind of belong to kind of a single
part of the inhabited world
And I would like to see kind of the study of Islam in the Quran and its early traditions and Judaism and Christianity
Et cetera and the other kind of smaller religious communities just integrated and talking to each other kind of more
Yeah, now when it comes to bigger like political issues modern muslims and things like that
Uh, one things I always say to christians and and also does that they are not really familiar with Islam
The Islamic transformations already happened. It happened ages ago. It happened centuries ago
Now what that means, uh, I'll leave on the table because it requires
Uh, uh, kind of a long amount of discussion and things like that
But the most of the problems that afflict
You know places like, you know, the modern middle east or or whatever they are not fundamentally of a
Uh religious nature like they're fundamentally in my opinion of a political economic nature
They have to do with like the legacies of imperialism colonialism nationalism, uh, fascism, etc
Like these are kind of really modern problems that aren't necessarily, uh, rooted in the Islamic faith. I mean
I mean, if you think about in terms of christian fundamentalism, there's nothing that is
Uh, fundamentally incompatible with the
Sorry, hold on one second. I'm sorry
No, yeah fundamentalism and then
Like fundamentalism and stuff is is totally compatible with a society that seems to be
Open and prosperous like the like american society, right? You just you just have institutional ways of
Uh, preventing for example
Forcing kids to study the bible and stuff like that in public schools or or whatever
I mean, usually you do it depends on the region. Um,
But I think their their problems are fundamentally not of like as long as not their fundamental problem
their fundamental problem are
Issues that relate to the political economy that are related to with the more recent history
um
Not where a lot of people are not educated on I think
Yeah, I mean the difference. I mean, I'll give you a little small
Example, you know, it's it's not like you know, say like you're reading the old testament for the first time
you never read the old testament and
You're reading like joshua. Like they're basically ethnically cleansing the territory that they're conquering
And you're like, wow, that's really bad
And but you don't like didn't walk out on the street
Look at your neighbor that you know goes to I don't know first baptist and like is that guy going to ethnically cleanse me
You you know what I mean? But you're just like that's just they they have a way of either ignoring that text
Or dealing with it theologically that okay cool, right the same thing with you know
It all of these texts like I came not to bring peace to the sword and the other and you don't think like
Man, does that mean that it'll be impossible to ever write a peace treaty between like
France and germany or something, you know, you don't think like that way
so
You know the once you get away from the text and once you get away from saying like what happened in the seventh century
the
theological apparatus of the muslim tradition is formidable is diverse
it's
extremely
beautiful at times
Very disconcerting at other times. I mean, it's it's just like the christian tradition, you know
You can find amazing figures like francis of assisi
And then you can also find
Events like you know the slaughter of the jews when the crusaders take Jerusalem
Like you can find all that material and the islamic side things too
It's in every it's in all of it. Yeah, you're right biblically old testament new testament
Just a lot. There's a lot there to unravel. So that's really well put
I hope our audience takes away and realizes that not everyone
Who is a follower of these faith and most are probably peaceful people
You may disagree with certain cultural things that they practice or think based on their religious aspects
And I suspect there's probably something to this
For example marriage
Ages of when you can marry these are different cultural things that have developed over time
And in there are certain regions of the world where these things were practiced
It's only us westerners who think the whole world should act like us and be like us, you know
I do think that this kind of society would be better overall
It's more progressive in a way
But uh, this is opinions that come from me and
And a lot of people are polemicizing online and they're spending all the time talking about
He married isha and isha was this we didn't even get into the whole accusations thing that you talk about in your text
In your book about these accusations and why is it soon the sunni and the the shii
There's a conflict over isha. I think that
You know, they have different like positive versus negative views on on her. I mean her early marriage is
Is pretty well attested. Unfortunately. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, and it just gets into rabbit trails
Yeah, I don't want to take you there because honestly we've gone almost two hours and to be honest
I want to have you come back. I don't want you to go when I go an interview with myth vision
We're gonna be gone for a long long time. Yeah
You're an encyclopedia though. I really hope that everybody will go and please
Check out his book. Let me pop this thing up here for everybody to see
I love this book. I must admit what chapter was it that I really
Had a hard time with um trying to pull that up here
It was I think it was when you started getting to the origins of the uh, I'm trying to get the
It's the chapter before prophecy and empires of faith. Yeah that whole
tons of tribes
Even ishak and the abbasids and like all this. Oh man, it's because I just don't know the names
But I know that you're like you're really flipping over so many stones for people to look into
Please go check out the book. Um, you have other works
I hope to interview on as well as join us on the patreon. We've got
Tons and tons of video. I mean like they're myth visions experts
Non-stop phd's experts. You name it. There's dr. Allison. I made a trip to uh, I asked my patreon's questions
And they they want to ask the experts and as long as the question is
You know, they know the work and they're not asking like shan anthony ask him something about islam
And then they they say something like all right buddha walked on water and it's like no no
I'm not asking an islamic scholar about buddha. You know, so try to be focused, but um, yeah, you can help us out there
And um, yeah, thank you so much. I seriously appreciate you taking the time to do this and look forward to you again
Yeah, my pleasure. Yep, and we
are
Myth vision ladies and gentlemen, I hope you enjoyed that show
I have hundreds of other ones on the patreon letting you guys know you can help us continue doing what we're doing
at myth vision podcast
Also, you can have questions asked the academics that I research with and I interview
Your question can be asked in a 1080p high quality video that might end up on youtube
Like I said ladies and gentlemen, I want to expose the cults
Show these superstitions for what they are and the errors within these texts and all of these religions to help people realize
They're all man-made and that we have what it takes
All we need to do is pull together. Let me tell you something
The religious world has the financial backing that those skeptics such as myself
Don't have so if you want to help and be a participant you can for a little a little bit a month
It's not much if you want to go more you can but like I said, this is how I can keep the lights on for myth vision
You
