I've noticed a trend as I've recently started engaging in Muslim content.
A lot of Muslim apologist, and I'll say that again, apologist won't tell you these things
about the Quran's traditions and how the development of this has happened.
Most of your average Muslims have no clue about this, but Dr. Shadi Nasir takes us through
the literature and let me know what you think about it.
Ladies and gentlemen, join Mythditions Patreon not only to support us,
but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier
all on the Patreon, early access. You guys can ask personal questions when I go to
interview these scholars and you're helping Mythvision grow. This is a very interesting
point that you make. I always reflect back to my biblical studies to make an analogy for anyone
watching this. We have what we see as the canon now, but during the first century, for example,
various versions of Judaism had various, if you could use the term, canons. They didn't actually go
by a standard, this is what we use, that Enoch, they had all sorts of different, some of the stuff
you'd go, that's not in our Bible. We don't allow that in our Bible. They did. So they used whatever
text and so eventually a standardization, canonization, eventually develops in all of these
systems, including Judaism, Christianity, and I suspect based on your books, also Islam. And this
is wonderful though. This points out that earlier, there's no reason even in the tradition to make
the assumption that Muhammad had the whole Quran collected. Now, one might argue in some way,
while he had it in memory and he shared it by word of mouth, orally to other people, but
that comes to the question, did he really receive or is this tradition developed over time by
Muslim early scholars who are developing this movement, creating a collection and then canonizing
what they call the Quran? Again, a valid question and we don't have a clear answer. So we don't
have sources directly that go directly back to this period. So most of our sources, they come 150
years later, reports on that period. We don't have direct, we do have eyewitnesses. We can talk
about this also a little bit. So we do trust many of these accounts of what was happening.
And why do we trust this? Because we have so many conflicting reports.
So if you have one beautiful standard report about something that happened, you always have
doubts. But when you have many conflicting reports, you have a general, if you want,
a general story or a general account, but then the details, people differ on the details.
That's a healthy sign. That's not a bad sign. It tells you that generally there's something that
people are agreeing on, but they differ on the details. So it's the same with the Quran. We can
talk about the variant readings later on. So at least my position is it's a healthy sign that the
Quran has variants. It's not a bad thing. If it doesn't, I would be very skeptical about how far
the text goes. If it has variants, it tells me that the text is old. And that's a rule of thumb
for any text that is transmitted orally. Same with poetry. If you have poetry which has variants
and it's transmitted by different people with variations, it tells you that the poetry is old.
If you have one standard version of a poem, it means that it's not old. And it's
standardized or canonized. So same thing with historical narratives. So you have a general
narrative with many discrepancies. That's a great sign. We want discrepancies. We don't want one
beautiful standard narration of what happened back then. And that's the reason why we have these
three, four, five different accounts of how the Quran was collected. They all share, if you want,
a backbone of truth, probably something true about what happened, but they differ on the details.
And then we start asking these questions. What does it mean that this companion, Zaid,
he was saying, well, how dare we do something that the Prophet didn't do? And then it raises the
question about the Quran. What is it? Should it be just an oral text? Should it be just
selections of recitations? Should it be really a standardized, canonized book?
And these questions people ask them. Why didn't, I mean, the Prophet didn't die suddenly.
He lived, he was 63, 64 years old. According to tradition, he predicted his death or he knew he
was dying. He could have said, okay, I'm going to collect the Quran and make it, make a final
version of it before I die. Why didn't he do that? If it's important to have it written down, right?
Let me ask you this. In light of this, this is wonderful. That makes perfect sense. He obviously
wasn't concerned about this. If this concern, I think, and this is me, just my common sense
based on other examples in history that I've looked at, when you have Abu Bakr come on the
scene, you have his three sons, Muhammad's three sons are too young. They're not able,
so they marry Abu Bakr's daughters, I think it is. And there seems to be a political struggle
for power as well as who's going to be the guy, the head honcho. We need to get the narrative
under control. I'm thinking in human terms on how we would naturally come to explain this.
So here you have someone who goes, we need to have full control of the narrative.
We need to have something standardized. And I wonder if they learned this,
maybe this is just something in the air for common sense for people, or they saw how the Jews
and Christians that were living in the region, that wasn't something I've heard people try to
say, they weren't living it. Yes, they were Jews. No, you have a good common sense as well. Because
I mean, in the same narrative, I mean, speaking of that, in this same account, or in an offshoot
account, after they made the first collection, okay, so Zaid, he went around and then he started
asking other companions, okay, tell me what you memorized, and then he started writing them down.
At the end, according to one narrative, so Abu Bakr, they put the collection in front of him,
and then he said, what should we call it? Wow, right? So what should we call it? I mean, see,
again, it doesn't matter whether this account is made up or not. It tells you something about
even the person who fabricated the account or who transmitted it. It tells you about how people
were thinking back then. So he says, what should we call it? Again, see, this is the
the distinction between something written and something recited. And then one asked,
one answered, he said, why don't we call it, what did he say, the Torah? Or I forgot which,
you know, which term he gave, like, let's call it the Torah, or let's call it, like, you know,
the scripture or angel. And then he said, no, this is what the Jews call their scripture.
Right. We don't want to call it the same. So back to your point about knowing what was
happening. Of course, they knew what was happening. You know, Arabia was not just an isolated,
you know, place where they had no contact with what's happening around them. And then someone
suggested that, okay, so why don't we call it Mus'haf codex? This is what they call it in Ethiopia.
The mus'haf, right? And they said, okay, so that's a good, that's a good, so let's call it
Mus'haf. They didn't even call it Quran. They call it Mus'haf. It's just a codex. And that's
from back then, not necessarily again, the account, whether it's early or whether it's,
you know, made up 100, 150 years later, it tells you that from very, very early on,
there was a distinction between the written text and the orally performed text. There are two
distinct entities that people should realize that they are different, at least from a theological
perspective. Now you as a practical person, oh, what's the difference? You know, what we have
written is the same as what you are reciting. Okay, from a practical purpose, it's the same,
but from a theological perspective, the codex, you know, the reality of the codex is very different
from the reality of the recited text. Okay, so one of the, for example, back to the issues or,
you know, discrepancies. So this account, you know, has issues, has certain discrepancies with
some other accounts. So we have other accounts that said, several of them, not just, you know,
one or two, that the Prophet had scribes. Okay, and whenever he received revelations,
he would ask the scribes to write them down, to write these revelations down. And there are
many of these accounts. So there are even the list, there is a list of the name of the people who
were able to read and write, you know, these revelations. And there are also other accounts
that he would instruct, you know, people to put this verse in front of that verse,
when he received the revelations later on, no, put it in this chapter or that chapter.
Again, whether these accounts are true or not, that's not the issue here. But then the question is,
if we already have so many accounts about the Prophet making certain kind of arrangements,
or a certain, if you want, personal collections, so what was the purpose of this first collection?
Why did, you know, the head of the committee go, when, you know, why did he go around and
started asking other companions about verses that they memorized or looking for things written on
leaves of trees and camel shoulders and stone, flat stones. This is the narrative, right?
If, you know, the Prophet already had scribes and he had already instructed them to write
certain chapters down, okay? And again, there are, you know, many interpretations of this,
any contradiction you can solve it, it's not an issue to solve contradictions and tradition,
I'm sure you know that also. You can always reconcile any two contradictory accounts,
that's not the issue. But again, we ask questions, so what's the purpose of, you know,
of these accounts about early collections and this first collection, right? And, you know,
a second point is that this image, that this account gives about, you know, the condition of
the writing culture in Arabia, it gives you a very, you know, primordial, if you want,
you know, Jurassic image of how people were reading and writing, as if they only had flat
stones and camel shoulders and leaves of trees to write on. And we already know that, you know,
they were in touch with other cultures and they could have, they could afford, yes, paper was
expensive and, you know, but, you know, the image that the account gives you, it tells you that
this is the first book.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon, not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Denison MacDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon, Early Access. You
guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're helping MythVision grow.
