We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I have Cheyenne Summers joining me again today.
How are you?
Good.
How are you?
It's been a minute.
It has.
It's been a minute.
I hope you're doing okay.
I am.
A lot of life changes have happened recently, but when do they not?
I saw someone have a, there was a poster on the wall.
Where was I?
They just said, like, if there's one thing I learned about life, is it keeps going on.
And that's it.
It's changing.
People come and go.
I mean, if you live your life open to it being in any direction, it will just keep on flowing
and you just got to go with the waves and see where it takes you.
And that's just what I'm doing right now.
So good.
Well, you're enjoying it.
I hope.
Yeah, I am.
I'm still in Colorado.
I'm definitely going to be here through the end of the summer.
And then I'm going to move on and go somewhere else for the winter instead of sticking around
for like ski season again.
So I'm going to go back to like the ocean, go back somewhere with a little bit more humidity.
Get the beach tan going.
Yeah.
So this is my last summer in Colorado, at least for right now.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Is it Colorado Springs?
Steamboat Springs.
Okay.
Okay.
So it's like three and a half hours, like Northwest of Denver.
Okay.
Got it.
So pretty out there and pretty far away from a lot of things and people and it's a smaller
town.
So I would need to like it's beautiful there though.
The altitude is what got me.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
And like in the summer, the wildflowers, everyone's floating on the river.
The community is awesome here.
I really love it, but I'm like, I kind of miss a bigger, um, bigger city a little bit.
So and I'm not, I'm kind of over at winter.
So I'm going to play around, see where I want to go.
That's awesome.
Well, I'm glad that you're doing well.
Our last episode we did, we talked about your background as a Jehovah's Witness being raised
in that family.
And you were also somebody who was doing, you traveled, you know, you were going to,
I believe Mexico, if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah.
I was there for about like two years.
Dominican was a bigger one too.
Um, and I went there a couple of times.
So I think in total I was there like six months ish.
And then you broke a bone and your parents, one of your parents, dad or mom, I can't remember,
was trying to get you to go to the kingdom hall.
Yeah.
And you fought them on it.
You said, no, what re re get us up to speed again.
Yeah.
So about him coming into my room and wanting me to go to meeting.
So my leg was getting better.
I flew home.
I think it was bed bound for about a month.
And then once I started getting better, he was like, well, you know, you live in my house,
you go to meeting, which he was never an aggressive parent before.
And it's a more like disappointed in you kind of father.
Um, so I felt really guilty as soon as he left the room and I was like, okay, I'm going
to go.
So I went and that was like the last meeting I ever went to our audience knows because
they may not have seen it.
Like you were born and raised in the Jehovah's Witness religion.
All your family was in it.
Everyone you knew was in it.
You didn't know anything outside of it.
Or except for school, right, which was elementary school, middle school, definitely didn't hang
out with those kids at all.
High school when I started being able to like drive, I would hang out with like three girlfriends
maybe.
Um, and I would go to like high school football games and stuff, but that was very like my
parents were very more lenient than I feel like other JW parents were, um, which I really
appreciated at the time, but, um, I'm glad that they didn't restrict me too much as far
as that area, but it wasn't until high school because they kind of pretty much set me up
as like not being close friends with anybody, elementary school and middle school, then high
school, they kind of let me like choose a little bit.
But that's when I kind of was fully into JW and I started having JW friends.
So I was choosing to hang out with them and I was fully into it.
I fully believed it.
Um, so it's only a few friends from high school that I'm still like in touch with, but other
than that, no one from my childhood is in my life, which is a pretty crazy idea.
And that's why it is hard to kind of acclimate to the idea of people will come and go my
whole life and I just have to like be okay with that.
Wow.
Okay.
It's just kind of, it's just crazy.
Like I found out last summer that my parents sold like my childhood home and moved to Florida
and I found out on Zillow because I just like was browsing one day and I looked at my house
and I just wanted to see like what it was worth or like, you know, it's sold June, you
know, 2021.
And I was like, what?
And I think this was in August, you guys don't even live there anymore.
Like no one told me my sister and her husband moved.
Like, you know, it's just like, I don't know really anything that's going on in their lives.
Um, and I think I just have to be okay with that.
So your whole family, we talked about this briefly and this is the part I forgot because
it's been a minute since we've recorded the first one.
Yeah.
You, your, your mother and father don't really communicate with you at all.
No.
So last time my mom texted me, I think was sometime last year, didn't go well.
It never goes well.
Unfortunately.
And then she texted me on Mother's Day.
Um, so like last week or two weeks ago, whatever it was and the day before, and she's like,
Hey, like, are you like, how are you doing?
She wanted to know like a life update, like my romantic life, my love life, like my, where
am I kind of thing?
And I just responded that, hi, like, I just don't think it's fair that you get to ask
me all these questions and like what my life updates, but what nothing else to do with
me.
It's not like, well, how are you doing?
You know, tell me about your life a little bit.
It's like, she kind of wants to know like the gossip.
It's like, maybe tell other family members or just cause she's nosy or something, you
know, I don't know, but it just doesn't feel right to me that they can ask whatever questions
they want to me, but I'm not allowed to know anything about them.
So one, one way street, are they still kind of, they'd know not to even come at you about
JW or you're not even going to talk, right?
Or do that.
So her response to my response saying, you know, I don't think that's fair.
She said, well, if you weren't spreading hate about JW, then it would be different.
And, you know, I just try to remain as calm as possible, but just sort of, you know, I
said, it's not hate, it's awareness.
And, and this is why I started thinking about making videos again, because it's, I
chose when I made my videos on my channel and like I went on your podcast and John
Cedar's podcast, it's, I made the choice of choosing what I was fighting for and what
I think is right over a relationship with my family.
And I think like, I had to like reaffirm that to her and reaffirm it to myself that
any day I will like, I would love to talk to her.
I would love to talk to any of my family members, but if it is a compromise of me
not speaking my mind or speaking up as a person that has independent thinking, then
it's not worth it to me because they're trying to like silence me.
And it's just, I just don't think that's fair.
It's part of the entire cult to sign.
It's just unbelievable still because they said, like I made their face stronger and
it's just so hard for me for like things that are going on in the world right now.
I'm like, how do you not care?
You know, it just blows my mind really.
So, you know, it's kind of also hearing other people's voices in my life being like,
oh, you should reach out to your parents.
Like they're going to want to talk to you one day, like they'll be back in your life
one day.
And it's like, I have to reassure other people that like I'm okay.
Like sometimes I'm not okay.
You know, it's still at times, but most of the time, like I'm okay with it.
I've made my peace with it.
And it's sort of, I don't know.
It's sad is what it is.
It's sad.
I imagine, and I'm sorry that you're going through this and I know that there's
thousands of people who are going through the same thing after COVID.
There are so many people who lost interest.
I just recently interviewed XJW thinker, JT and Lady C.
They've got like a little YouTube channel and they're hoot.
I mean, I always have a blast with them.
And they were talking about how, you know, at first everyone's suit and tie put on
their bow, getting in front of the webcam, all ready for a kingdom hall.
And like at the end, this is exactly what everyone's doing right here.
Let me, let me give you a perfect example here.
Let me see if I can do it right here.
This right here, literally, like just sitting exactly, exactly.
You don't see them.
They're just there.
They're not.
They're not dressed up.
They're in their underwear.
They're sitting there just being present, but they're not there.
And so COVID did a lot to, I think, damage the cold.
And so I'm sorry that you have to go through that.
I bet you wish you could just talk to your mom, like, just, just, I'm saying like,
mom without the baggage, like just mom, you know, like mom, let me give you an update.
I know what love feels like.
I know what beauty looks like.
I've seen a lot of the world, like, I've this, I've that, you know what I mean?
Like, yeah, and it's just something of like, I told her to at the end of the
conversation in a very like as nicely as I could without like having an attitude
about it, because like, you know, I feel so passionately about things that are
going on right now.
And I'm like, mom, like, I know deep down, like, how do you not, I don't know,
just how do you not have a voice about these things?
Like, how do you not have an opinion?
And I just told her at the end, like, I just don't think it's productive for us
to talk and I would just rather her just not reach out at all, then reach out
and be hateful or be negative, because it's just, it gets us nowhere.
And it's only going to like damage our relationship even further.
If she were to, and I, you know, I said, you're always welcome in my life.
You will always be welcome in my life, but that's something for you to decide
if you want.
And my only boundary with that is if you do come into my life, you know, we
need to have healthy boundaries and like, know what to talk about, what not to
talk about.
And she just, you know, kind of said bye after that, which is fine.
But, um, yeah, I don't know.
Cause I asked about my sister, like, um, last time we had talked.
So last year I said, younger and protected.
Yeah.
She's a, well, she's older.
She's four years older.
Oh, I thought this was, okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
So she moved to Florida with my parents and her husband.
And so I just texted my mom when I found that out and I said, what happened to
Haley, where did she go?
And she's, she shamed me essentially for asking about my sister.
And I just see the hypocrisy in it all.
And, you know, I know that they've all moved on with their lives and that's
fine and I need to move on with my life.
Um, but it's hard when you hear people be like, Oh, they're going to come back
in your life.
Like, you know, they'll be fine.
They'll be fine.
It's like, sometimes it doesn't happen that way.
And it's like, I'd rather make my peace with it now than hold on to some
hope that may or may not happen and rely on that.
So if, if I were to just ask you to be 100% honest and transparent and just
say it like it is, do you hate the JW colt for this?
Do you hate what it's done?
Like, like, how do you feel about this colt and this teaching?
By the way, this teaching, this, what they call fictive kinship is found in
the Bible in the New Testament.
Jesus taught it.
You should be able to hate your mother, your father, your sister, your brother,
your children, it doesn't matter for the kingdom's sake.
So this is where it comes from.
My question is how much do you hate this teaching because you had to live through
this, you see what I'm saying?
Do you have animosity?
It's more so despicable of the people that run the organization and people
that know that it's wrong, know what it's doing to families and still continue
to take advantage of people, whether it's people in desperation of finances,
community grief, it's like they're taking advantage of all these people.
I more so feel hatred maybe towards like the governing body.
Like it's just, I think of them as just disgusting, really.
And I just, I hate what they've done to my family.
So like, I guess I do hate the teaching, but in a way that's more so, it's just,
it's disappointing.
It's despicable and it's going to bite them in the ass one day and I hope it soon,
but I don't know how soon that's going to be, you know, and it's just, there's a
whole lot of things going on in the world that I definitely do not love that are
out of my control and that's one of them.
And it's just like as much as I wish that they would wake up, I don't know if
they ever will.
And it's, I just, it boggles my mind, you know what I mean?
That how, like with all these things going on, the JW community and the governing
body twist it as into their story, you know, they make a narrative of it of, oh,
this is, this is actually good for us or like, this is actually coming to an end.
And that was what really gets me.
So that's why I honestly hated, you know, COVID happening.
Well, like obviously I hate COVID happening, but like all these world
issues going on because it's only giving JWs further ammunition to say the world
is going downhill, you know, like, you don't need to be voting cause it's going
downhill anyway, you know, you don't need a voice.
God will take care of it.
Just pray about it.
And it's like, that just will get us absolutely nowhere.
It's just awful.
Yeah.
It's just sad.
Yeah, that's, that is ridiculous.
So I must follow up with that date.
I was reminded of something here too.
You know, we definitely might come back to family, but you were dating someone
whose family was JW, like, like, like it didn't make any sense to me, right?
Like, I'm like, Oh my God, what are you doing?
But was he serious about JWs?
And like, what happened with that?
If I may, this is TMI, but, but it's like, yeah, I'm fine with that.
Um, one of my next videos is actually going to be about that whole relationship.
And it was an amazing relationship.
Uh, we were together for three years.
We actually broke up just, we separated a couple of months ago.
So it's a little fresh and stuff, but, you know, we're, but we're still best friends.
We're always going to be best friends.
Um, and still in each other's lives.
Um, yeah, his parents, like he left JW and he was 18.
So I don't want to tell like his whole story because his whole story is like
amazing and just, you know, I commend him a lot for his journey.
Um, but he's definitely never going back to JW either.
He was never baptized too.
So that's the difference between us is his parents still talk to him a little bit.
Um, and he's just cause he was never baptized.
He never made the commitment and broke that commitment as to where they view me
as I broke my, oh my gosh.
Well, the biggest difference between our, like our family lives.
So, so his parents were like, they, that's a good loophole for them is to say, well,
he was never really baptized.
And to them is, is the doctrine that if you're baptized, you're saved, like that
makes you a child of God or like, what is the, what is the baptism to them?
I think it's really just more so a dedication.
Like I dedicate my life to serving you.
I dedicate my life to serving Jehovah.
Um, and to like observing your, your religion, like your organization.
So, and like whatever, I did one time.
Yeah.
How did that go?
Oh, I mean, it was just, it was my first time being around an elder after
leaving JW, and so it was really brief.
I met his father and his dad just came at me hard, like immediately.
And he's like, well, you know, that like, I want him to start going back to meetings.
Um, I want him, like I want you to be good influence.
I know you want to go back to like, cause his dad knows elders that I grew up with.
Like everyone's, they're stayed apart, right?
Like they know everybody.
Oh God.
Yeah.
And, um, he said, I told him, he's like, so are you going to go back to meetings?
And I said, this is like three years ago.
And I was like, well, I'm actually thinking about writing my disassociation letter.
And he said, well, you know that if you do that, we cannot talk to you or have
communication with you guys at all.
And I was like, it was just, he was just coming at me hard.
I felt this like elderly, older man presence, just being like trying to control
me, telling me what to do.
And I just, I was getting angry.
I was just mad really.
I just, you know, I'm trying to get it together cause it's like his parents, you
know, and then his mom comes outside and like, we briefly chat and it's over.
And as we're leaving, I was just like, I don't want to be around your parents again.
And he was like, yeah, I totally get it.
Cause he's not super close with them either.
But it was very hard definitely being in a relationship where both of us don't
have any family out, you know, so we were definitely trauma bonded a little bit and
just like best friends and like, we've know what each other had like been through.
And we knew definitions, you know, we knew words that are only really associated
with JW that just like most friends, like if we say, you know, certain words, like
they just don't know what we're talking about.
So it was nice that we had that understanding with each other for sure.
Wow.
This is, it's wild.
You know, every co, every ex cult member that I've ever like talked to, they all
have a very similar issue in the relationships with others after leaving that,
that are in it, the cults don't permit.
They don't, they don't allow that relationship to continue.
And JW's Mormons, uh, Scientology, like, especially Scientology, that one's bad,
but that one blows my mind too.
I remember watching it while I was in JW and I was just in my room, like
watching it on Hulu or whatever it's on with Leah Remney.
I think John Cena ended up being on an episode was on the JW episode, but they
have like their words and definitions were like so similar to JW.
I'm like, they're, oh, they're just different words, but same definitions.
And then it's like, you see the pattern across, you know, every cult like that.
And it's just, it's interesting.
It really is.
Now that you've been separated from the cult for so long, um, have you like
actively seen any changes in the world based on your, your experience with the
JWs?
Have you heard anything that's changed in your, in your world, or you've been
like completely separated and not really paid attention to it.
Like things changing in JW world.
Yeah.
Like anything you've heard through the grapevine.
Um, maybe like socially, like it's always interesting to see like new people
who leave and that reach out to me or like, you know, um, that sort of thing.
But as far as actual organized organization topics or changes, I only
know, I guess what I see on Reddit, like, I guess in one of the recent
watchtowers, they like had a new date for like end of times, which went back and
look at it, but it was either 2030 or 2035.
Uh, and I remember just being pissed when I read that.
Cause I'm like, I was like, I'm going to have to wait like another
extra house for a new wave of people to leave.
So like that was a big bummer to me, like hearing that, but other than that, I
don't really keep up with it as much because I'm also trying to, it's like,
it's a really important to me and it's really important for like my history
and like where I come from and I want to help other people that do leave or
like want to talk about it, be there for some sort of support.
But it's also like trying to move on with it a little bit, but I don't think
I'll ever be able to fully like forget about it.
Right.
Something that like my family and a lot of my friends are still in.
And yeah, I don't know.
It's just interesting to see them change too.
What are some examples of like the most common thing people reach out to you
when they're leaving?
They say, here's what did it for me?
Oh, I mean, I wouldn't even say it's really like, I've noticed it's a
process over time because like mine was a total process over time.
I have a friend in Nevada because I served in Las Vegas for a few months.
I lived there for a few months.
So I have some JW friends that are still there.
So I've had a girl reach out to me like every few months, she sends me a voice
memo on Instagram and tells me like her update.
And it's so interesting seeing her message me from like a year ago and what
that context was to now she has fully left.
You know, she told her parents she's in a relationship.
Like she's not coming back.
Like, you know, to see her progress like that and what that's been like for her
is, I mean, it's really cool.
And it's really just like me telling her like, yeah, I'd be patient and you got
to keep believing in yourself and just keep moving forward because it will
get better and it will get easier.
But in the moment, it seems so overwhelming.
And like, I remember just shaking my boots being like, I can never like
tell my parents like how I actually feel now.
I mean, I have no problem telling people how I feel, but it's, I was so shy.
I was so taught to be submissive and quiet.
And, you know, I just, I was, it's a patriarchal world.
Like you literally cannot break that bubble.
It, some of their teachers are just wild and the blood transfusions and all
that stuff is just crazy.
And I just had more of a voice when I was younger.
And so that's like my advice to younger JWs is like, you know, don't wait
till you like gain the confidence or like maybe do if like that's your
natural process, but like if you can train yourself and start reading things
and educating yourself to have an opinion, doing that now and like getting
that confidence, I think would be like the best thing.
I think my parents would have respected me maybe even more if I had told them
my concerns when I was like 16 rather than being 20, 21 and shocking them, you
know, cause it's like, I never question anything to their face.
You know, even though, cause I didn't feel like I had the open communication at all.
Yeah.
I have, my mom wants to like, she'll like, we have, we're very tight on this
issue. She doesn't want to talk to me about it.
I don't want to talk to her about it.
Cause she, I don't want to offend her cause I'll say, I say what I really
think about things and, and mom is, mom is afraid.
She's afraid of hell.
She's afraid of judgment.
She's afraid of this and that.
And she believes that this is true and it's real.
And you know, she's afraid for me.
And I'm like, you have nothing to be afraid of.
Trust me.
I've studied.
I know what I'm talking about.
There's like, no, like why aren't you?
You're afraid of, you know, the other gods, you know, there's a lot of reasons
we can get into why, why this one, why we were packaged and top this one.
But, um, mom calls and she'll call and be like, cause we have a really
good relationship.
And, and she'll be like, I had a dream the other night.
And when she has that tone, I know she's like trying to like get under my skin.
She'll be like, I had a dream the other night, Derek.
And when I was sleeping in the middle of the night, I heard a voice and I woke up
and I said, who is it?
And he says, it's me.
I am.
And then she goes like this, who's I am, Derek?
Like, like, like mom, like, I know what you're trying to do here.
And I'm like, I am is, is the claim of the, the Jesus said he, I am the true
vine.
I am the same that, but it's the idea that God, this notion comes from the Hebrew
Bible.
So she's like trying to like egg me on into this.
Like, Derek, this is real.
Like just remember, like, yeah, she wants to save me and I'm like, mom, I
love you.
She'll go, say a prayer right now, please just right in front of me.
Say a prayer.
I'll say a prayer in front of her because it makes her feel good.
Yeah, but it's like, it's not going to hurt me.
Like, I don't care.
You know, I'll say a prayer, you know, if you needed me to, I'll say a prayer
with you, like I'll sit in the circle, hold your hands, whatever.
I don't care.
I saw, I actually, there was this, I was leading a eulogy at a funeral.
One of our close friends overdosed and died many years ago.
I was already out, like, uh, what is it?
Physically out, mentally out, uh, pomo, you know, I was what you would call
pomo, but I didn't have any belief, like at this time, you know, like I have
nothing, you know, at this point, I'm just a skeptic and I got invited to
just do the eulogy and I thought that meant when we get there, like, I'm
just going to say something to lead like this one part.
I get there and they said, Pastor Lambert, thank you for
showing up.
I'm not making, I did the whole funeral service and I was so nervous.
Then they said, your flock is in there waiting.
I'm not making this up.
They're waiting for you.
I go in there and there's 30 inner group family members as I got 200 people
at this funeral and I'm standing there and they're like, uh, pastor, please
come and lead us in prayer.
I don't even believe what I'm praying in.
And I forget like how to do it the way you do it when you're in the group.
Like when you're in the group, you're like, heavenly father, I thank the lower.
It comes naturally.
You got it.
I'm saying this and it felt awkward because I'm like, you know what, just
say it for them.
And so I said it and they were, amen.
Thank you.
And then I went up there and I had to give this sermon.
I think the only part I felt comfortable is when I played a song from Garth Brooks
that related to like who she was.
It was a really good song that he had saying about this girl.
Can't remember the name of the song is really good.
One of his older ones.
And that's when I started feeling comfortable.
I was like, you know what, she's in a better place.
She's not suffering anymore.
It was drug addiction.
And, um, that was the most awkward out of the church experience I ever had.
And it was in the newspaper, pastor Lambert.
I'm like, holy crap.
Have you seen my YouTube channel?
Like how long had you been out or like, you know, physically out, mentally out to
when you did that?
Probably, I'd say at least a couple of years.
Like at least we've already like unlearned and like deep process from like, you
know, cause it's a social, it's well, I don't want to say it's a social game, but
it is a social, I don't even know that to it, you know, you're out of it.
Like, I can't imagine going back and being in a room full of 30, you know, J.
W's and then having to kind of get myself in that mindset again after two years.
Look, my wife wrote like seven or eight pages for me.
I'm at work all week.
I have nothing prepared.
Right.
I walk in the door, she hands me this papers and they're like, pastor Lambert,
come over here and I don't even know what I'm supposed to do or say.
Or how to lead it kind of.
Yeah.
They would, they told me what to do.
Like, hey, go over there.
Now you got to give this and I'm like, I'm looking in the paperwork.
I'm looking at her going, what page?
I mean, I don't even know what I'm doing.
And then I'm opening the Bible to read from the Bible, the very book that like,
I'm actually scrutinizing all the time and I'm reading it and these words are
supposed to give them comfort.
And for me, I'm like, this is, it was so weird.
I can't describe it.
It's like, if you went in the kingdom hall in some place, they don't even know you.
And they think that you're like the elder's daughter or something.
Okay.
And you're like supposed to give a spiel in front of all of these
Jehovah's Witnesses.
You know what I mean?
Like, you know, it's really awkward as I was at a diner here in town.
And I was talking to my friend, Audrey, we were having a conversation and she
also kind of grew up in like a mainstream Christian.
Well, I grew up actually, she chose it when she was like 18.
Did it for a couple of years and it was kind of culty.
It was like in South Africa, like really interesting story.
I've kind of bonded over that.
And we were talking about JW stuff and she said something like, I wish I could
just punch those JWs right in their face.
Like she was getting really angry about something I told her and she's the
sweetest person ever.
She's the sweetest woman ever.
And she says something like that and then this lady behind us a few minutes later,
she has a little baby and we're making like little baby faces and you know, and
she's like, by the way, like I heard you guys mentioned like Kingdom Hall or
something.
She's like, I'm JW.
And I was like, oh, Jesus.
I was like, I hope she didn't hear.
I don't think she did, but I was like, oh my goodness.
Like how?
Cause I'm just talking and I was like, yeah, and I was really nice.
But I was like, yeah, I just like, I left a few years ago and she's like, yeah,
it's not for everyone.
And that was just like a really good interaction.
And I think to the JW community is just like the socialization is different.
I think in every state I've noticed as to where if I had moved to like Vegas or
California and was JW, I think I've maybe would have, I think I still would have
left at some point, but I think I would have like taking your time a little bit
longer because like they make it a lot easier for you to stay because they're a
lot more chill.
She wasn't everybody's smoking out there.
It's like, I know.
Yeah.
It wasn't preachy or anything, but I was like, you know, I'm like, oh yeah,
they're everywhere.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I think the, I think everything's heading in that direction and things are just
going to get more and more like that.
So I, let me ask you this.
We're aiming at your future.
I do want to do updates.
We always want to touch base with you here at Mithvision.
What do you, what are your goals with it?
Because right now you sound to me, you're kind of drifting, right?
You're like, you know, I want to just live in the moment, right?
To enjoy life.
But as far as the JW content goes, or maybe your personal life, what do you
envision for your future?
I want to talk more about topics that are a little taboo, especially in the
JW community.
So just kind of branching into, so my ex-boyfriend Ian, we had a polyamorous
relationship for the last six months of our relationship.
And a lot of that was really good.
A lot of that was really like eye-opening.
It was really, you know, we're just both open-minded people.
Right.
And just wanted to see what that would be like, what that, you know, and
that's a very taboo topic.
Especially in JWs.
Especially JW, and then also just, I think in general, as a society, it's,
it's a newer concept.
It's a newer thing.
And I kind of want to talk about how like my experience was with that.
And to where it kind of is along the lines of like going against a lot
of JW ideals, and then also going against just ideals as a society.
Right.
You know.
Tradition.
Just tradition of like what is expected in relationships and how they
must pan out the good old, you know, ways and how things should be and
things.
Yeah, I'm with you because it's much more than just religious.
It's, there, this is something too.
Like when you go back in ancient Greece and learn history, look, they were
doing some wild stuff.
Like, like you're kind of wondering like, what happened to the, the good
old days?
Like they, now don't get me wrong.
There's a lot of ridiculous, horrible stuff.
Like, like we, we morality wise has evolved.
Like we know, like there are young people aren't aware.
We need to give people time to figure things out.
You know, but in those days, you know, it wasn't uncommon for like a ruler
or some man who hasn't figured out to take advantage of a little boy is his
little servant for fun or whatever.
Those are like boundaries.
You got to know how to set lines and realize what is the best, what is the
best morality that you could paint for a picture for all humans and something
that you said about that, just my little insight.
I didn't want to make this about that in the show, but it is an interesting
point to put out.
Like if you ask yourself the basic question, why do so many cheat?
Like, why is everybody cheating?
Like serious screw all you like forget everything you think you know and think
you have the answers to just like, why do people cheat?
Oh, they find other people attractive and interesting.
Oh, so they just want to like connect with other people.
Sorry.
No, no, sorry.
It's pumped up.
Yeah.
No, but if you take that right and then they have to lie about it and then
they lie about it, they go, they have to do more lies and do more, you know,
hiding things and then people are angry.
Like it destroys like the honest just what it is.
And if we understood us as humans better instead of this, well, tradition says,
I can't believe you cheated on me or you wanted to do that.
What do you mean you can't believe I wanted to do that?
Like humans do this.
This is what humans do and to fight that urge and resist and that's been
a struggle my whole life as a Christian.
Was that lust?
And it was like, I'm a sinner and I'm this and that.
And then I found out when I was dying from addiction.
No, dude, you're a human, which is a primate, which is an evolved creature here
that is totally normal to feel that way and to think that way.
And so don't hurt yourself.
Don't beat yourself.
Don't bully yourself in your mind and think you're a horrible individual
because of these things.
Anyway, yeah, I'm preaching.
I mean, I agree.
And then it's also just after so many conversations together, it just got to
the point of like, you know, if we set boundaries and rules and we do this in
a way that's respectful to one another, like why not give yourself a little
bit of like ease with that or exploring sexuality or exploring just different
people that you connect with.
And I read a lot about like, you know, having a primary partner and like what
that can look like while also having other partners, but it's a very delicate
way of doing things.
I definitely learned a lot from my experience doing it.
For the first like, so we did it for about six to seven months and we were
just so in love the first, like still in that first time, the first three
months that we had started that, it was a great experience.
I, it was so fun.
And then I think, you know, at the end of it, it just kind of started turning
into like, I think we're a little bit ready.
Like we need to separate from each other because we thought we were going
to get married and we thought, you know, we'd always talked about the future
together and stuff and then realizing like, it's better to live in the now
and focus on each other than get like bonded in this idea of the future.
You know, like not letting yourself be open to different possibilities in life.
And like, I wanted that for him.
He wanted that for me and it just sort of ended, you know, but in a way
that was really loving.
Yeah.
So, and then it's like now with going forward, you know, it's like, I still
think I could do Polly.
I think that you can definitely hold love for multiple people, but it's
definitely a hard thing that your, like your partner also has to be dedicated
to and understand and that's not super common.
Right.
So it's definitely a hard topic for sure.
And it's an interesting one.
So then it also, you know, how much do you want to be committed to a person
like honor your primary partner or just honor your partner in general
while also exploring yourself as a human?
It's just, I mean, I've never, you know, I've been in marriage for 15 years.
Right.
Those are things I've never explored in terms of that.
But yeah, there's, there's definitely like, I'm very open-minded to seeing
how others would experience things of the world.
It took me experiencing a little bit of the world and hearing other
people's testimonies to understand, hold on, you mean to tell me not everyone
is a Caucasian white alpha male raised by a green beret and the special
forces who left Christianity?
Like you kind of realize everybody's a little different and does things
different and you should respect that.
It's one of those things you've got to kind of learn.
And if we think we figured out everything by now as humans were, you're
really shooting yourself in the foot.
Like there's a lot.
Yeah.
It's also just like coming to terms with like, you're not special.
I'm not special.
Like, you know, like our stories are all special, but they're all like everyone
has a, everyone has a story.
Everyone has some sort of trauma, you know, and it's like finding people that
you can either like bond with and talk with about it, then also like learning
from others life experiences.
And I wish like more people were just like open to that.
Like I wish JWs were just more like, you know, like I don't agree with you,
but I will listen to you.
There's not a lot of people like that.
They're not open minded because they're afraid of their mind being changed.
I think that brings it right back to like your journey is you're exploring
the world that you never would have been able if you were in this cult and
it was damaging your life.
And now you get to feel a freedom that you never felt.
That doesn't mean everything in life is so good and everything life is life.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I definitely think like I have a good perspective about things usually.
I mean, life can be really hard some days, but then other days it's like,
you know, what am I really stressed about?
I have a good job.
I have a great like place to live.
I have a great community.
Like at the end of the day, I really like and pretty privileged right now to
not have a whole lot of stresses and it's like, but I think I always had this
anxiety growing up JW of like the end is going to come any day socially.
I have to be on my game all the time.
There's like all these things going on inside of me that I was like constantly
anxious and then now leaving.
It's like, okay.
I mean, there's a whole different world of things to be anxious about, right?
Well, like internally, like I don't owe anyone anything anymore and that just
in and of itself just releases a whole lot of anxiety and that I don't have to
hear opinions from my parents or my family members about my relationship or
about the way I choose to go about it or anything like that.
I don't have bad that would have been like, can you imagine if they like if
you were still pretending and then you ended up coming out and saying, Hey,
this is what I plan on doing or something.
I mean, Terry down.
That would have probably been more of a shocker.
Wouldn't you say?
Oh, if I hit them with like everything all once, right?
They would not know what to do.
They'd be like, no kidding me under my roof.
You've been doing what, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, when my parents, well, when my dad found out, like I smoked weed for
the first time, like I never seen him really cry and like he cried because
like his, his brother, which it was like to me, I was like, it's really not
that big of a deal.
I think I was, you know, this is when I was still living under their roof.
And like, I don't like, I don't know.
I think I did it like, I don't even think I got high actually.
I think I just did it with like a friend.
Like, I don't even know, but they found out about it and my dad was just so,
he just thought I was going down the gutter immediately.
Well, in his generation, they were taught this crap too.
But what, what, what about his brother?
His, both of his brothers died of drug addiction.
Ah, there's his eyes.
He thinks that that's like the gateway, you know, whatever.
Um, but he just thought my whole life was going down the drain because
I wasn't going to be JW and like he found out.
I did one thing that, you know, is not commonplace in JW.
Um, and it was just really sad.
And I was like, I mean, if you go about things the right way, there can be a balance
and there can be just this going about life.
Like, I'm going to try a few things.
I'm going to be open-minded.
And it was just crazy to me that he was so, he just lost all hope for me in that
moment.
Yeah.
I mean, I think there's some trauma there for sure.
No matter how far he's probably thinking in some way, you're his baby.
So he's thinking that, but the cold, it just, it muddies the water so bad and
so many ways I've noticed.
So hard to know, you know, hard to know, hard to read his mind.
But I can imagine why as a parent, you know?
Yeah, but it just makes me in that moment too.
He just wanted nothing to do with me.
So it's just like, why give up though on your kid?
Or like, why, you know, in his eyes, it was just like, well, there's nothing I can
do, you know, like that I was acting crazy.
When I was it, it was just a little thing.
Yeah, interesting.
I get it.
I do get it.
Yeah.
Well, I don't know.
I meet friends who have like the smoke weed with their parents or something.
And I'm like, that's insane.
I was like, my parents would never like, but that's also not every parent.
I get it.
Yeah.
My parents never the family dynamics that when you don't have an organization
telling you what your dynamics should be, then like, cause I was never friends
with my parents really.
So it's like, I wonder what that's like.
Just curiosity.
Yeah, it depends on the kind of people they are.
Even personality wise might matter.
You know, it's different.
It's different.
Now your YouTube channel, how long ago was it that you've published here?
I'm looking 11 months for a short year.
Yeah.
11 months.
Okay.
Here you are power of now, how I view life and time after religion.
So I hope that everybody will go subscribe.
You're planning on putting out another update.
Yeah, I'm going to record it this month.
So good.
You're motivated.
Yeah.
And I want to talk about, and I just wanted to wait.
Like I've just been, I wanted to wait until I had more to say and now I have more to
say and I know how I want to say it sort of thing and things that I want to talk
about that are like half J W related and half not that are just like ideology.
But yeah, I'm excited.
Go subscribe now right now.
Please go show her some love.
Hit the bell.
I hope to hear more from you.
We are going to have to do some hangouts.
Take Q and a from the audience, that kind of stuff.
We'll definitely do something awesome.
I would love that.
Thank you so much.
I enjoyed this.
Thank you.
I'm talking to you and ladies and gentlemen, never forget we are.
Yeah.
