I have a confession. I'm an atheist. Feels good just saying that, but I never thought I would ever
say that. I'm not one of those atheists who wishes that, you know, I wish things could have been the
same way they were. I wish I had the faith in God like I used to. I'm actually very glad to be free
of that type of mindset, but it didn't happen overnight. And I want to say this to the myth-vision
people who watch and who wonder, if you didn't know already, I'm looking for natural explanations.
Superstitions just don't cut it for me anymore. I used to just go off faith or just believe in
what was handed down to me, and then I challenged that belief and moved to a different belief.
I'd go from a certain type or brand of Christianity to another brand of Christianity,
ended up in a Calvinist Presbyterian Christianity, and then I studied eschatology and realized,
hold on, the whole church has it wrong. Yeah, I know, that sounds pretty condescending.
That sounds pretty arrogant to say that whole church has got it wrong, but just like the
Millerite movement that was going on in the 1840s predicting the end, it didn't end. The movement
continued. The end didn't happen, but I'm not alone in this. Critical scholars have recognized
this. I never would have accepted or even listened to them if it weren't for challenging my own
beliefs. I went to full preterism towards the end of my Christianity to try and save the Savior.
I realized that if Jesus said, soon these things will happen, some of you standing here won't even
taste death according to the gospels, and Paul, you know, those of us who are alive and remain at
his coming talking about himself and the Thessalonians because they're freaking out. Some of the
Thessalonians were dying. Don't be afraid. Some of them are asleep. Those who are asleep in Christ
will rise first. Don't worry. They're going to be rising first, but those of us who remain or are
alive at his coming, you know, you get the gist. So they thought it was supposed to happen back then.
We're 2,000 years removed from that moment, but we have modern examples are somewhat
contemporaneous compared to 2,000 years and looking at other cults and how they've done things.
You know, heaven's gate cult was willing to commit suicide or the Jonestown, you know,
suicide that happened with Sinai and the Kool-Aid, but other cults like the Millerites that predicted
the end would happen and it didn't happen. Is that what happened early Christianity?
Evidence started pointing in that direction to me and told me, huh, 2nd Peter 3. There'll be
mockers and scoffers in the last day about the coming of the Lord. Things have been remaining
the same. Nothing's changed since our fathers fell asleep. 2nd Peter 3. Don't worry. A day
is as a thousand years and a thousand years is as a day. I found myself realizing, oh my goodness,
the reason the church kept going is because what was expected never happened.
And that is when things started hitting. But before they started hitting me critically,
I had to make God bigger. And I'm glad I did because my deconversion wasn't I'm a believer,
I'm not a believer. No, parallels to pagan religions also helped me recognize. Is Jesus
really the way, the only way to God? Why are there other virgin births in history, other deaths and
apotheosis, resurrections, if you will, other miracle workers? Why are those things kind of common
amongst deities? Yet Jesus is the only true one. He's the only real one. You know, I had a hard time
wrapping my head around that. So because there were common tropes in antiquity from other gods and
other cultures, I finally made God bigger. I couldn't have him be the narrow way, the only path, this
small few find the way thereof. I recognized God was bigger in my view. And I said, okay,
he's showing and revealing himself like the six wise men in the elephant. If you don't know the
six wise men of Hindustan, I encourage you to look that up, Google it. Six wise men of Hindustan
to learning much inclined, they all went to see the elephant, though all of them were blind,
that each of them might satisfy their mind, something like that. And then they all give a
description of the elephant, though they're all blind, and they're all arguing back and forth at
the end of this poem. And every one of them was partly in the right, but all were in the wrong.
And that's how theology goes, they go on and on about what each other mean about an elephant,
not one of them has seen. And I had never seen that elephant, but I made it bigger.
And it was like, if you've ever seen those little toys that that go together,
they're little balls, and then you could stretch them and they become these expandable huge, I
don't know what they're called, toys that are kind of like, they're kind of like a Lego type balls
that you can expand and contract and they look like a orbit, like a global spherical ball.
But when you open them, all this free space in the middle is there. There's not much mass to it.
It seems like more mass when it's a small, very narrow ball. But when I expanded God,
yeah, he was bigger, he was, he was so big, he was vague. He lost that mass, he lost that,
that, that powerful, very individual. I could see why monotheism seems attractive to some folks.
Oh, I have the special one, but this bigger was way more comfortable to me. It made more sense to
me as well. So I went with the bigger because I couldn't accept the religion and God that I had
been worshiping since I was a child. And at this point, I'm trying to rectify my problem with what
I found in Christianity with the rest of these world religions that I'm now exploring, just to
learn not that I was going to go to a Hindu temple or I was going to go to a mosque or, but I wanted
to learn why they believed like they did and what their stories said. And as I did that a little,
I haven't done that exhaustively at all by any means, I started to realize, oh snap, everybody's
right and everybody's wrong. It's just a way the cookie crumbles with religions. When God became
expanded and much bigger, it almost became a natural thing. Like God is the laws of nature,
energy, whatever. It got so vague that it almost blended in with the natural world around us.
All I did was jump to this kind of consciousness position, kind of like some people who argue
non-duality the way I've heard it and understood it. And I felt like the reason I went there is I
needed a cushion. I needed a comfort that there was meaning and purpose and that I didn't create it
myself. That was some destiny, something bigger, larger made me feel good. Like a child feels like
they have purpose when their mother and father are there encouraging them and giving them that
comfort that they know they're there. Kind of like, and this is going to sound funny, but my dog, for
example, and dogs are known for this, they won't defecate unless they're close to a master or someone
because they feel comfortable. They're at their weakest point when they are using the restroom.
And so I felt comfortable thinking something was there without any evidence that there was.
It took a long time to finally go, okay, a lot of emotional
peeling away the onion to allow myself to even question and ask, is there really a God?
Not with the doubt in my head as a Christian or the doubts I had throughout my life,
but seriously willing to explore that option. Could the natural world explain what there is
and all there is to know? Now, I'm not saying there aren't, there are things that we,
there are things we don't know. There's things that we'll probably never know.
And that's what I love about science now, but I wondered if there were natural explanations for
all these things that the spiritual or the religious world is trying to account for.
Why do we assume agency? How does the mind operate? Are we just built superstitious,
if you will, machines? Like, are we built naturally this way? Is that an evolutionary component
to believe in things we don't see and assume agency? The scientists I've talked to say yes.
And I'm exploring this question deeper and more. So I wanted to make this confession,
if you didn't know. And I say it because I don't want this to affect you if you're a believer or
not. I love you all the same, but I want you to hear it from my lips because most of the world
believes in things and they believe in some philosophy, some religion, something. And usually
the ones who are at odds are the ones who don't believe in those things, have a different outlook.
I think we should all be open and have that freedom of speech to be able to say where we're at
in life and our journey. And you should be totally fine with that. You may not agree with my conclusions,
but what I'm trying to do, I think is an honest and open journey that you guys have explored.
And you can Google my name on YouTube or YouTube my name and you'll find me. I was a Calvinist
with a beard. I was super into the Bible. I know that the Calvinist out there and other Christians
who are once saved, always saved, so to speak, you were never really one of us. You were never
really saved to be able to say what you say and act like you do. I get it. I was in that world,
totally understand, but proud to say I'm no longer in that world and I'm exploring a whole
another world that I never knew was there. And I'm very thankful that I have come to this conclusion
and started to realize, let me see if the natural world and things that I can empirically test
make sense and can actually better account the evidence than the superstitions. And as some people
call fluff, the woo-woo, the superstitions, so to speak, that we always have had as humans.
It was our best shot in the ancient world to try and jab at things like philosophy and the origins
of life, why we suffer, why are we here, but maybe we have other better explanations. And I hope you
guys know we are MythVision.
